
    ----CITATION----
        Williams, Henry Llewellyn, (1842-). Binnacle Jack, or, The Cavern of Death .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8315
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               BINNACLE JACK; 
               OR, THE CAVERN OF DEATH. 
             
            BY MAT MIZEN, AUTHOR OF "WILL WATCH," "DELAWARE DICK," "THE BLACK CRUISER," "SUSAN WYLIE," ETC. 
            
               NEW YORK: 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER,  
                     No. 13 FRANKFORT STREET. 
                  
               
             
          
       
      
         
            Binnacle Jack, or, The cavern of death 
             
            BINNACLE JACK. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE conclusion come to by Timothy Clark, as recorded in a previous portion of this tale, whom we left with Ned Topman in the cave, half inclined to turn smuggler, notwithstanding his predetermination of steadily adapting his conduct to the bias of his duty was, by the way, far more rational than many conclusions arrived at by some sections of the collective wisdom, who, after spending months in patient deliberation, do oftentimes slap reason in the face, by the adoption of measures altogether hostile unto common sense and rational deduction. 
               It was couched in homely phrase, it is true. All the better. There could be less mistake about it. And when, in the honest frankness of his nature, he affirmed that a good breakfast was better than a bad one, we are assured that few of our readers will be found with temerity enough to affirm the contrary unto a proposition so self-evident. 
               Nor was this resolution inconsistent with the fiery spirit which, had he obeyed his promptings, or been unfettered at the time, had certainly led him to have taken share in the conflict which occurred during his journey from the cage at Ramsgate unto the gaol at Maidstone. Timothy Clark, at this period, had not been tempted by the good things of this life in any degree. He had not been tempted in the right way. His reason had not been convinced through the action of his stomach. Good eating and drinking formed no part of the code of morals which sustained him; and, indeed, the conducement of these essentials to the true and perfect enjoyment of life, does in some sort justify the objurgation of reverend divines and sage philosophers, who angrily affirm luxury to be the chief corrupter of the human heart. The modern Pythagorii, who, publicly preaching on the virtues of a spare diet, and the beautifying influence of bread and water, privately act as if wine were made for the wise alone. 
               When Tom Welling, therefore, received intelligence of the safe arrival of the Witch at Rotterdam, and all the previous occurrences which had so far compromised the safety of the confederated smugglers. he received it through the arrival of Binnacle, such a communication being unsafe to be sent by the ordinary channels of conveyance. On this occasion he found honest Timothy a clean different man, and as far averse from duty and salt junk as the veriest contrabandist could desire. The fault, if fault it were, was in nature: nor would it be justice on the part of the reader to censure the poor foremast-man for what he could not help. He could no more control the cravings of his stomach, than prevent his natural taste preferring the well-seasoned before the unsavoury; and to such of our readers as condemn his election we sincerely wish a similar temptation every day of their lives. 
               But time, which in its progress brings forth all sorts of monstrable matters, at length brought the day into being on which Watch was expected to arrive by the confederates of Welling's Hole; though the day brought neither night nor morning unto the foremost-man, the cave being a species of hell, notwithstanding the good things which abounded therein, and exhibiting a sublime sample of the palpable obscure, a species of darkness visible, that such as have rejoiced in the gloomy region of the cockpit, beneath the doubtful rays of a ship-lamp, will readily comprehend; but which, with the illustrious author of "Paradise Lost," is merely to be construed into the rushlight he wrote by in his better fortunes. 
               But poor Timothy, who had been aceustomed to hard fare on shipboard, was perfectly satisfied with the hell he was in, until something better should turn up, and, over a plentiful supply of corned beef, gave an inward thanksgiving unto the Bestower of all things, not forgetting the master's mate. Yes, he was grateful for the comforts he enjoyed; proving therein that our happiness in this miserable world is rather comparative than otherwise; or, what is nearly the same thing, there is nothing positive in it, save a hasty man's temper, which, for want of a better exception, may serve to prove the rule, and which such as are prone to perplex themselves by resolving effects into causes are welcome to test by their individual experience. 
               Howbeit, Tim, having demolished a battery of beef that might have sated another Polyphemus, sat for some minutes in silence, wearing a look so profound that any bystander might have sworn he was engaged in solving the question of the longitude, or some other problem of equal importance. No such thing. Tim knew by natural ratiocination that the mental and physical powers were seldom co-operative. He, therefore, sat in a state of abstraction, to give his digestive organs less impediment in the strict and active performance of their duty. 
               "Well, Timothy," said Ned Topman, breaking in upon his reverie, after a long pause. 
               Timothy startled at a sound which, reverberating through the deserted temple of his understanding, seemed to awaken a thousand echoes therein, without producing a single idea, save that of sound itself; for Tim turned his little eyes upon his old companion, as if he doubted whence the voice had proceeded-staring with a stare of astonishment, and looking as if he had not a word to throw at a dog-no, not if the animal were barking at him. He, however, quickly recovered himself, when Topman remarked- 
               "You will enter on your new service to-night, Tim." 
               The foremast-man's eye began to glisten, as if inwardly determined to convince his companion he could be grateful for the kindness he had already experienced; and he looked very much like a petted bull-dog, who licks the hand of his master and bites every one else, when he exclaimed- 
               "You will find me no flincher, my bossy." 
               "I know it, Tim, I know it," observed the master's mate in reply. 
               "Tibby sure yer do," said Timothy; "kase as this, I never deceived no man, not I, let alone an old shipmate; aye, and a good 'un too, Marster Topman, thof I ses it. A good shipmate must be a good messmate, and a good messmate a good man, as old Mike Tarpulin use to say; but d--n it," concluded the foremast-man, "what's the use of talkin' of old Mike, now I arn't no longer in the sarvice!" 
               And Timothy felt the blood tingling in his ears, and he cast his eyes upon the cavern floor as the incidental recollection of the old boatswain, who had nursed him, and from whom he had sucked all his seamanship; crossed his mind. With all his liking for the creature-comforts of life, Timothy still cherished a secret hankering after duty, and the remembrance of old Mike operated as a reproach to his present intentions. 
               Wherefore he remained silent for the space of a minute and then asked- 
               "Do you ever fight, Master Topman?" 
               "Never, if we can help it, be assured on't." 
               "Well, that's some comfort howsomever," said Timothy, as if ruminating inwardly. 
               "How?" exclaimed Topman. 
               "Why, I shou'dn't like to have it on my conscience to fight ag'in the men I've sail'd wi'," observed Clark. 
               "Are you a coward?" 
               "No, not exactly Marster Topman; but their aint much luck in firing long shots ag'in men as we've messed and sailed wi'," said Timothy; "for I mind me as there was Jem Ringbolt in the 'merican war of thirteen when they offered double pay and promotion to sich lubbers as 'ud run from their duty and j'in em. Jem Ringbolt left all his traps behind him off Providence, and droppin' quietly over in a carm had a swim for't, and was picked up by a 'merican, an' got drafted aboard the Chessypeek; an' a fine frigate she wor as you ever seed, Master Topman, an' everything about her as nice as ninepins, as the sayin' is all standin' taut, as if they waited tibby knocked down by a long bowl. Well, I've heerd ould Mike tell the story a thousand times, while we were cruizin' off the 'merican coast, so it must be true, when the frigate he had got a berth in hove out to fight ag'in Cap'n Broke, some how or other the very fust broadside, the gun of which poor Jem was made cap'n bu'sted-on'y think o' that there-an' poor Jem Ringbolt got killed by a splinter among 'em, in the fust fire on board the Chessypeek." 
                
               "That's a regular Yankee," said Ned Topman, with an oath, as Timothy Clark finished his narration. 
               "Well, I know it is. Did'nt I tell you so?" observed Timothy, with a simple and straightforward look. "Any fool knows as the Chessypeek was a 'merican frigate." 
               "I mean it's a lie." 
               "No, do ye though?" asked Timothy, and he looked in his companion's face with a simple look of inquiry, that almost made him laugh outright. 
               "Yes I do, Master Timothy. I was aboard the Shannon myself, and smart work we made of it. We were not ten minutes in taking the rascally varmints. Why, Master Timothy, we got so completely disgusted with them there kind o' cattle, that, on board the Shannon, instead of saying 'twang' to a lie, as they did when I served as a boy aboard the old Britannia, we used to say that's 'a Yankee.'" 
               "But old Mike talked of Providence," said Timothy. 
               "And I say it's a lie." 
               "Well, you knows best," said Timothy, and both were silent. 
               While Ned Topman and his companion were thus wearing out the day in Welling's Hole, the farmer himself was busied in the neighborhood in telling the truth in every direction, and affirming it was the intention of the smugglers to effect a landing at night. Nor was this system inconsistent with policy, for he had told the same tale daily during the last ten days, so that now he had the satisfaction to find that everybody laughed at, and nobody believed him-a disposition of the public mind which the cunning farmer from the beginning had aimed to cultivate, and now succeeded. 
               Night after night were the boats of the Wasp-for in accordance with a custom prevailing in the English service a new vessel had been fitted out, and received the name of the ill-fated Wasp, and placed under the command of the former captain of that vessel-set out, and the crew kept on the alert, until the men were worn out with fatigue and harrass. Tired at length by the constant repetition of false alarms, Captain Trunnion lost all patience, and began to relax his disciplined vigilance seaward. He indeed caused the mouth of all the gaps, or, as they are called along the coast, gates, in the cliffs, which might serve as a means of running goods, to be strictly guarded from the shore, and now lay on his oars, to wait the event in quiet, convinced he should take his prey whenever they made their appearance. 
               The crew of the Wasp all the while burnt with impatience to take vengeance for the loss of their murdered shipmates, and secretly determined to give no quarter to any contrabandist who might be unlucky enough to fall into their hands. Rejoiced at the opportunity of revenge afforded by the relaxed discipline of seamen employed on land service, they counted over the moments which intervened with stern eagerness; they knew that service ashore must, to a certain degree, release them from the controlling power exercised over them while acting in a body and under the eye of their superiors; that the greater part of the responsibility must resolve on individual volition, and gloried in the opportunity portunity when, hand to hand, they might punish the murdering pirates-for such was the estimation in which they held the men against whom they were ordered. 
               Nor were the officers of the revenue sloop wholly unacquainted with the secret determination of the men, neither were they altogether averse from it, how inconsistent soever with discipline. They had already been condemned for lack of vigilance in the discharge of their duty; and the loss of a government cutter, by a vessel that Captain Trunnion had suffered to slip through his fingers, which had now been reported, and the schooner described, seemed to confirm the justice of the censure. Wherefore, though his interest with the government had prevented in quiry, and thereby saved his commission, neither Captain Trunnion nor his officers could help smarting under an implied disgrace, the justice of which they were inwardly compelled to acknowledge. The intentions of the preventive men were, therefore, rather winked at than discouraged. 
               During the whole day groups of preventive service men might be seen, loitering about the brow of the neighboring headlands, on the look-out after their expected prey. Eyeing every sail with a heavy saturnine expression of features, well adapted to the monotomous employment in which they were engaged, and ever and anon shifting their telescopes to look on vacancy, or perchance espy a distant sail, as yet, indeed, too distant for the eye to catch unaided. 
               Minutely would they relinquish their glasses to hold communion with each other, while their rough and weather-beaten countenance took a character of deeper and sterner import, as if they spoke of predetermined blood guiltiness. And many were the imprecations and heavy was the determination of vengeance on the sneaking clipper and her rascally crew, should they by any chance fall into their hands. 
               Deep and deadly was their indignation against the gang of smugglers which, under the direction of their wary leader, had succeeded, in spite of their utmost precaution, not only in getting their goods ashore, but rescuing their confederate from the trammels of justice, and so bringing equal contempt and discredit on the forces of government and the powers of the magistracy. Nor while denouncing their vengeance in threats, not merely idle, could they help feeling their ire raised still more against the clipper captain, whose boldness in running into Ramsgate harbor had enabled him to cajole their captain into a security by which the contrabandist lived to perform his subsequent exploit on the coast of Essex, the fame of which had been noised among the preventives. 
               Night at length came. One of those nights which, in the absence of the moon, moves like an universal shadow on the face of the broad and boundless ocean, presenting the reflex of its own deep blue, save where the stars spangle the vast canopy, like so many bright and beautiful spirits of creation, speaking unto man of an intelligence that never sleeps. A light breeze lent a murmuring voice unto the distant waters: all else was calm and still as the drooping sand which marks the stealthy march of time in a silence deep and solemn as his own. Until pressed upward by the returning tide, the waves rolled leisurely on the shingle, roaring as they rose, like an advancing battle, which signalizes every advantage obtained by loud and cheering cries of victory. 
               With midnight the Hamburgh schooner, Betsey, Jorgan Janson commander, by her arrival at her old Station of Welling's Hole, proved the information spread abroad relative to the intention of the smugglers to effect a landing was correct enough; the only point on which the preventives lacked a knowledge was the exact place at which the contrabandists intended to run their cargo: a fact that farmer Welling, when setting the rumor afloat had prudently thought proper to keep entirely to himself. However, as all the gates, or openings at which it was supposed a landing might be effected, were strictly guarded, and little fear was entertained that the preventives would not only be enabled to take the vengeance they had resolved on touching their lost comrades, but a booty also that would amply repay their vigilance. 
               The best intentions are at times frustrated, and Jorgan Janson, or Will Watch himself, or whoever else it might be, had framed a policy which fully answered the purpose of deceiving their enemies-the preventives. With this view they determined on gratifying the watchful coast guard with a seizure which should increase the derision hitherto attending their unsuccessful endeavors to detect the smugglers of Welling's Hole To such an end they filled about thirty spirit tubs with that limpid liquor which teetotallers delight in and bon vivants spurn; so that while the schooner's crews were engaged in landing her goods at their yet undiscovered wharf, the preventive men, who awaited their arrival in the immediate neighborhood, should have too much employment on their hands to interfere with or prevent them. 
               Safe in her old roadstead, Will Watch dropped kedge, snd striking the schooner's sail, loaded the decoy boat, which he sent ashore with all the care and secrecy he should have observed had she contained the most valuable cargo. The boat shoved off with muffled oars, and with four men on board, under the command of old Boltrope, pursuing her course to the nearest gate or landing in the neighborhood. Nor had she been long under weigh before she was observed by the preventive men, through their night glasses, who kept watch on the self-same cliff on which Topman and Hardbrace had warded together, when the latter met with his untimely end. They marked her course with an eager spirit, as if their stern longings for blood were soon to be appeased: and their hearts expanded into a savage feeling of exultation when they saw her make all haste for land. Satisfied they had now got the smugglers into their power, they marched for the mouth of the nearest landing towards which the boat was evidently making head, and made a patient travel of some quarter of a mile towards the only spot which could afford the boats crew the chance of a run, sternly to await their coming, determined on blood for blood. 
               While the preventive coast guard were thus wearing out day and night in desires of vengeance that gave little room for ease in their anxious and troubled minds, their old shipmate, Timothy Clark, waited the approach of evening with all those waverings betwixt inclination and duty which must of necessity precede the first bold deviation from any recognized principle of conduct. He was equally restless and uneasy, although from a different cause. He had, indeed, very incentive to strike hands with the smugglers, into whose power he had fallen: but notwithstanding he believed, unhesitatingly believed, he should be hanged if taken, he could not help some principles of duty lurking in his recollection, and there were times in which he wished himself hanged out of the way, rather than be wearied by the prospect before him. 
               Timothy, like most sailors in a similar predicament, finding he could quiet the pertubation of his mind no other way, tried the solace of grog, the comfort of which he had often experienced when in a quandary on board. But alas, he could hardly take a sip without that sip bringing some, or one, of his shipmates to his recollection, with whom, in less uncomfortable circumstances, he had drunken from the same cup, and without the trouble of committing an excess, he found horrors ready made unto his hand, till, wearied out by forebodings, he threw himself in the hammock to bury his troubles in sleep. Foolish thought; he only closed his eyes to dream of matters yet more terrible. Topman entering the cave, piped to dinner, and sung out, "Timothy! up, Master Timothy!" 
               The somnolent foremast-man, poor soul, was just undergoing the ordeal of the boatswain, whom he imagined at that moment engaged in completing the tie which bound him to mortality, and about to finish his cares at the fore-yard-arm; whereupon, on hearing Topman's summons, being only half awake, he exclaimed- 
               "Avast there! you wouldn't be in sich a hurry if you was a goin' up yourself." 
               "I going up! What do you mean, Tim?" asked his companion. 
               "Well, blarm me if dreams don't go by contraries," said Timothy, rubbing his eyes. "Who'd ha' thought it! I jist dreamed as little Scratchback the bo's'n had tied me in his chin tackle-and if there ain't a smoking hot dinner I'm blest!" 
               "What put old Scratchback into your head? There are no boatswains amongst us." 
               "All the better,' observed Tim, his eyes glistening with delight as he surveyed the hot beef and carrots which Welling had provided for their refection. "All the better. I mind as I once got a startin', when a boy, aboard the Howdacious, though I never yet tasted the cat." 
               "You'll find this something better; we have no cats amongst us." 
               "No, nor no mice neither, "if we're to juge by the larder," said Timothy, endeavoring, in the exuberant spirit wrought by his agreeable surprise, to indulge in a forecastle jest upon the occasion. And farmer Welling and Binnacle entering, the four confederates sat down and made a plentiful meal beneath the very ground trodden by the preventives tives on the look out after them, and their first toast was "trade without shackles." 
               The reflections which had proved so oppressive unto Timothy while alone, gave way unto the hilarity of the moment, and ere the third can had been replenished with grog, Tim Clark felt his heart warming unto his new companions, as if he had voyaged with them a thousand years: all his remorseful feelings were drowned in the liquor, and he seized Binnacle, and Willing, and Topman in turn, by the hand, swearing they were the best fellows he had ever met, and promised to live and die with them; till, rendered drowsy by the liquor he had swallowed, he tumbled in to take another snooze, leaving his confederates to call him up at mid-watch to his duty. 
               "What do you think of our new confederate now, Master Welling?" asked Topman, as soon as Tim's heavy breathing announced him to be fast asleep. 
               "I don't know what to think," returned Welling; "he seems changeable." 
               "Don't you know that the tiger is not a tiger in his nature till he has tasted blood?" observed the master's mate. "One step with us, he will be forced into a new line of duty, and must go forward. I know him to be as brave a fellow as ever stood beside the breeching of a gun: and, for seamanship, barring eddication that qualifies a man to take a reckoning, he's all right for every p'int o' duty. If he aint a good match for the best of you in coast navigation, and that's saying something, I'll never drink another glass of grog." 
               And in such idle and disjointed chat the confederates of Welling's Hole wore out the afternoon, heartily laughing at the busy preventive men, and more heartily laughing at their commander, who had suffered himself to be harassed out of his vigilance by the perpetual false alarm the farmer had kept up by means of his agents. Timothy Clark, pending their conversation, snoring under the potent effects of the liquor he had been swallowing, and which, indeed, had steeped his senses in a forgetfulness so sweet, so undisturbed and refreshing, that on being awakened to take his share in the night's adventure, he could not, in the vanity of his heart, refrain from boasting himself as vigorous as a three-year old donkey. 
               "We must now think of going on the look out, Master Timothy," said the master's mate, rousing his old companion about ten o'clock.-"Our friends will soon be here." 
               "Blest if I aint glad o' that," said Timothy, rubbing his eyes: "I'd rather all us be up aloft than skulking atween decks; but I doesn't see how to extirpate myself from this here. There's nothin' furder nor a chark wall as I can see: but there mus' be an outlet som'ers, else we shou'dn't git the grub as is so plentiful." 
               "Bear a hand, Tim, and you'll be acquainted with all the mysteries of this cavern. Better to turn a windlass here than turn out under the smoke of a gun to dance upon nothing." 
               "Right," said Timothy, putting on a ruminating look; "blarm me, if I thought hanging produced sich an uncomfortable feel, till I dreamed of it this arternoon. 
                
               And under the direction of Topman, Timothy fastened a rope by two half hitches to a strong ring, and then taking a spell at the windlass, wound on, until, much to his surprise, a chalk pannel began to move on a pivot that formed an entrance sufficiently wide on either side, to admit free passage for a man, when the air that now blew more freely in his own face, announced to the simple laborer the proximity of that nature from which he had been so long excluded. 
               Passing quickly through the aperture, Topman and Binnacle raised the trap-door, and now all three stood within the outer cave, while the pure air from the sea made Timothy reel with delight. Topman now set the floating light, as a signal to the smugglers that all was safe landward, and plied his glass in every direction for the expected schooner. They had not watched long, ere, true to her hour, Topman made her out careering onward with a fair wind and flowing tide, until she made the roadstead in front of the cavern: when, as before stated, she dropped her kedge, struck her sails, and began to unload, under the surveilance of the preventive men who guarded the shore. 
               On despatching the decoy cargo, Watch loaded two other sea-boats which had been on the look out for him, and superintended in person the landing at Welling's Hole. In this he acted with his usual caution, making in the direction of the first boat, till he had fairly run her under the brow of the lofty cliffs, and then creeping towards the hole silently, and completely hidden from any watchman who might be stationed above, reached his destination in safety. Every body now assumed the industry of the bee, and in less than ten minutes the goods were landed, and passed from hand to hand, safely warehoused within the inner cave, while not a whisper was uttered, and scarcely a hard breathing suffered to break upon the silent ear of the night, lest it should betray them in their lawless occupation. 
               Long ere the decoy-boat had reached the gate or landing-place to which she had been sent, the valuable contraband cargo had been deposited in the safe of the farmer, when Watch prepared to enter the cavern and taste Welling's hospitality, previous to making his way across the country to rouse his future father-in-law and pay his earliest respects to Susan Wylie, of whose recent illness he was now for the first time surprised. The distant crack of fire-arms arrested his foot-steps. 
               At a sound so unlooked for, for the people with old Boltrope meant anything but fighting, the whole body of smugglers in the outer cavern were startled, and looked upon each other with an expression of fear deeply impressed on their countenances. Nor was it wonderful they felt themselves daunted for the moment, when the fearful array that government might bring against them is considered. Men, how daring soever, are rarely found willing to hazard their lives twice in the same action, as the contrabandists must-firstly, in repelling the preventives, and secondly, to the outraged laws of their country, if they should be unsuccessful. Howbeit, a moment's reflection sufficed to reassure them, and they resolved to obey their master-spirit in any course of conduct be might command. Watch himself seems to be somewhat taken aback, on beholding tke lines of dismay and irresolution depicted on the faces of his companions. He felt himself palsied by an apparent coldness and inertness in men who had hitherto been accustomed to spring forward on the first alarm. He resumed his wonted bearing, however, when they had recovered from their first surprise. 
               "Good heavens! what's that?" cried he, receding from the entrance. The report was followed by several others. "I hope our people are not quarrelling with the preventives," said he, in an anxious tone. 
               "Who leads them?" asked Binnacle. 
               "Old Boltrope!" answered the contrabandist leader. 
               "Never fear then. The chance more likely is, that they are quarrelling with our party, than that old Boltrope is quarrelling with them. They bear us a grudge for what we have already done, and are not unlikely to take this opportunity to wipe off old sores." 
               "We must not let them murder our friends," said Watch, leaping into the boat, followed by half-a-dozen of his crew. "Give way, dear hearts, or we shall be too late to succor or avenge them." 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               THERE is a vulgar axiom, the wisdom of which is generally acknowledged by philosophers and statists, though oft laughed at by the vain and giddy multitude, who, indeed, are the people whose mouths it mostly graces-"It is dangerous to be safe." The maxim is so universal, as to seem indigenous to the mind; nor do we believe there exists a single being who has not at some period of his life experienced its verisimilitude, who has not found the idea of being perfectly safe the constant forerunner of insecurity. Lives there of all the motley assemblage, the aggregation of folly and error, vice and weakness, to be found in the vast metropolis, who has not experienced how often it is very dangerous to be very safe. Speculators of every description from the jobber who crosses the market to the jockey who jostles in the race, must bend to this universal dictum. The king or queen, and eke the minister and his parasite, in turn become its subjects. Even Watch, who had learnt the lesson through a life of hazard and peril, and, therefore, accustomed himself to control dangerous circumstances by throwing himself in the midst of them, discovered in this night of mishap how perilous it is to suffer courage to ride on anything but caution, or rational fear to pillow itself too certainly on the confidence of native boldness. 
               Little recked the daring smuggler of death or danger when he ordered his boat's crew to pull towards the inlet, where their decoy-boat had made a landing, and where the firing announced a conflict had just begun. Fears for his own person he had none; and, to do him justice, had any of the boat's crew played the dastard in that moment of peril, or attempted to stay him, all feverish as he was with anxiety and excitement for the safety of his friends, he had assuredly met with a stern rebuke, or perchance a blow from his lion-hearted leader. One feeling alone pervaded his breast. The men with whom he had so long associated were in danger, and he lacked no other inducement to urge him onward. 
               The firing which had alarmed the smugglers at Welling's Hole, proceeded from the party of preventives mentioned in the last chapter, who, perceiving from the cliff or headland on which they had been stationed, that the boats which put off from the schooner made way for the nearest gate or landing-place, took a similar course across the open meadow land to intercept the smugglers, capture their cargo, and avenge the barbarous murder of their shipmates. 
               Men reason in their circumstances. The preventives had, therefore, taught themselves to consider the death of their companions, who, all, save one, had been slain in self-defence, as foul murder. The revenge they had one and all determined to take on the first smugglers who might fall into their hands consequently appeared no more than just, and their own murderous excitement the mere devotion of a set of miscreants to the outraged laws of the country. 
               At or near the mouth of the inlet on which this party was advancing, three of the preventive body had already been posted. Nor would it have been possible for any person unacquainted with their locality to have detected their presence, so perfectly were they hidden beneath the shadow of the cliffs, which, rearing their lofty heads on either side of the narrow road, obscured, even during the brightest moonlight, every object that sought their covert. 
               The absence of the moon, however, had now deepened the shadow into a darkness well suited to the deed the preventives had resolved on. It seemed as if death had outspread his wings above the devoted spot, and hovered with a stern and impatient eagerness for the expected quarry. Even the stars appeared to wink and stuggle amid the vaporous cloud-drift, as if endued with mortal fears and feelings they were impelled by an irresistible impulse to look on that from which instinct had already told them they must recoil with horror 
               To one of the three preventives who watched in the gorge of this inlet, Josiah Smallwood, government owed its information respecting the fate of Rowcraft and his vessel, together with an accurate description of the vessel that run her down. Nor was it at all wonderful, the superstition of sailors being properly allowed for, that her black hull, sails, and rigging, together with her almost miraculous escape by the sudden change of wind, should have impressed him with a notion that he had been fighting against creatures of no mortal mould-that the smuggler craft had been built by supernatural agency, and Beelzebub himself had laid her keel down. 
               Josiah Smallwood was one of those seamen who are always cool enough in fight to know how and when to take care of themselves. Wherefore, although he had boldly followed his captain when he boarded the contrabandist craft from the hull of his sinking vessel, and had even helped to cut away the lashings of the bow-gun, and turn it against the foe or that occasion, with the caution of the Scotsman, he seemed determined to put out his hand just far enough to be able to draw it back again. Accordingly, perceiving the smugglers defended themselves so desperately, he began to think that, notwithstanding the value of credit and reputation, both might be purchased too dearly if no whole bones were left on board the schooner; wherefore, he dropped from her bows, and swam ashore with the dispatches, at the moment Rowcraft, with the spirit of a lion, rushed into the fight, calling on his companions to follow him. 
               To the caution of Smallwood, the government owed its accurate knowledge respecting the loss of the lieutenant, his crew, and cutter. Subsequent inquiry had traced the smuggling craft to Ramsgate Harbour, while Josiah found himself drafted on board the new Wasp, a circumstance that turned out to be very important in deciding the fate of our hero, and the daring body of smugglers who had hitherto so cunningly eluded, or boldly braved, the art or power of the revenue people. 
               The chilling mists which fall during an October night benumbed the limbs of the preventives who watched under the command of Josiah Smallwood, and, muffling their hands one over the other beneath the ample cuffs of their watch-coats, they stood hushed and motionless, preserving a silence deep and solemn as that of the night itself, while they awaited the approach of the expected smugglers. At length a sound is heard. It approaches from the land-side, and every ear is strained to ascertain its direction. 
               "Hark! listen!" cries one of the anxious watchers, bending his body until his ear nearly touched the earth, in his eagerness to detect the vibration of the approaching footsteps. "It must be the smuggler's friends, who are preparing to run the cargo that has been so long spoken of. We shall have them to-night, boys-we shall have them to-night!" 
               "Revenge!" muttered another through his clenched teeth; "revenge for our shipmates, Cox and Bracewell!" 
               "And Hardbrace and Spunyun!" 
               "For my brave captain and shipmates who perished by the hands of the rascally theives; for Rowcraft's sake, no quarter for the black villians!" exclaimed Josiah Smallwood. 
               "No quarter! no quarter!" hoarsely muttered the trio, while they crunched and ground their teeth in the deep excitement of the time. "No quarter for the rascally pirates!" 
               A low whistle, however, at the gorge or entrance of the narrow road or inlet they were guarding, put an end to their excitement, by announcing the arrival of a party of their brother preventives. 
               "They are friends!" cried Josiah Smallwood, answering the signal, and the new comers joined their brethren of the watch, without further interruption; a circumstance which such of our readers as are aware of the mischevious recontres which accidentally take place betwixt members of the same service in the dark will consider fortunate. 
               As they approached, their leader exclaimed- 
               "Stand ready, boys, the smugglers are about to run." 
                
               "I hear nothing seaward," said Smallwood. 
               "It would be impossible with these overhanging cliffs," observed the foremost of the new comers; "their height is sufficient to block out all sound until the boats run in between them. They must be destined hereaway howsomever, for there is no other gate or landing-place till you pass the foreland. Hark! is not that the plash of oars?" 
               "I hear nothing of the kind," said Smallwood. 
               "Nor I now," observed the new comer; "my anxiety has deceived me. It is not uncommon with men watching in the dark as we do. Howsomever, there's no doubt the smugglers will soon be here, for the reasons I have given already. So look to your arms, my friends; for not one of the rascals shall escape us, by G--." 
               The sides of the lofty cliffs sent forth a deep reverberation of the oath by which the preventive man had attested his determined purpose; and coeval with the utterance, the clicking sound made by the hammers of several pistols being thrown back, announced that each preventive-man was engaged in examining the priming of his pistols, as well as the surrounding darkness would permit him. After which, all subsided into a horrid stillness, and actuated by a horrid ravening for blood, they waited to take their vengeance. 
               Thus prepared to give the contrabandists a reception too warm to be comfortable, one of the little party stood ready with the means of procuring an instantaneous light, phosphoric matches then beginning to be commonly used, that he might fire a pile of shaving-wood, resin, and other combustible materials, and so light his companions in the work of butchery they had resolved on. 
               Their resentment was not like the resentment of sailors in general, which, like that of savages, is fierce and deadly while it lasts, but soon over. It had assumed a deeper and more deadly tone; and stronger and fiercer instincts governed them. All the carelessness and gaiety with which your true seaman rides buoyantly over peril and misfortune had given place to a fearful enmity, and stimulated by the depictions of their new messmate, Smallwood, they were wrought up to a pitch of fury which choked every impulse of humanity in a fierce desire for blood. Actuated by this impulsive longing after vengeance, they watched amid the surrounding darkness, straining their every sense to catch the most distant token of their enemies' approach. 
               Unwilling to speak, lest the echo of their voices should alarm the contrabandists, and thus peradventure rob them of their vengeance, they strained "each ball of sight," as if they would penetrate the more than usual darkness that hung over and obscured the ocean. Still the boat they were so anxious after did not appear. They were almost willing to believe she had shot past the inlet in the dark. So far were they persuaded of this, they were about to break up, and proceed to the next station, when the voice of old Boltrope suddenly broke on the ears of the vigilant preventive-men as he ran the boat round the cliff. 
               "Steady larboard, pull starboard, give way all!" 
               Such were the words of the old steersman, and the boat's crew obeyed him to the very letter. 
                
               The contrabandists had now reached the point destined to be the limit of their boat navigation, and secure, as they imagined, from the nature of the cargo they carried, against the operation of the revenue laws, inwardly enjoyed the prospect that awaited them of being taken by the preventive guard, held in custody, and discharged by the magistracy in the morning, when the contents of the brandy tubs should be examined. No foreign water, except eau de vie, being contraband, and water itself, though the primest and most valuable of a ship's stores, being landable at the pleasure of the skipper, without bond or entry. 
               Boltrope and his companions, after rounding the cliff, pulled smartly onward beneath the shadowing heights, and the broad bows of their sea-boat lent a swelling voice to the shallow waters as she approached the shore, although the extreme darkness that hung over the face of the sea rendered it almost impossible to distinguish an object. 
               The preventive-men instinctively seized their pistols, and each guided by the sound of the approaching boat, levelled his weapon in the same direction, and fired as the smugglers reached the shore. 
               Satisfied by this announcement that the preventives meant something more than play, the smugglers, luckily unhurt by the first discharge, slunk under the gunwale of the boat to shield themselves from such friendly intentions, while Boltrope, following an instinct taught by habitual danger, crouched in her stern-sheets. 
               The night-reek had so damped the thin wood and shavings as to prevent the immediate ignition of the combustibles intended to aid the preventives in their work of butchery, and, impatient to accomplish their vengeance, the coast-guard discharged the second volley in the dark, with equal want of success, when old Boltrope, as the last pistol-shot flew over the boat innoxious, leaping out of the stern-sheets into the water, call out most vociferously- 
               "Hold! hold! my men! you aint a goin' to murder us; there is no occasion for that; we surrender: we are your prisoners." 
               "Prisoners!" echoed Josiah Clark, who had given a tone to the man's feelings. "On what grounds do ye claim to be prisoners? Smugglers we might respect-murderers must die the death. Remember Captain Rowcraft and crew!" 
               "And Hardbrace and Cox!" exclaimed seamen of the Wasp. 
               "Our shipmates Bracewell and Spunyun!" shouted several. 
               "Will you not give us quarter?" demanded Boltrope, approaching them until he stood at the water's edge. The boat's crew in the meanwhile crept up, with as little noise as possible, on each side of the old steersman, to take their share in the approaching conflict, and now stood ready to make a rush on their antagonists. 
               The time had now arrived for Boltrope's further movement, and when he received in answer to his demand for quarter a stern denial of treatment for himself and brother contrabandists, as prisoners to the Crown, which amounted, in fact, unto a denial of justice and a trial by the laws of the country, the sturdy old steersman exclaimed- 
               "Then perish like a dog as thou art, unforgiving and unforgiven!" 
               "Will you surrender without terms?" demanded Josiah Smallwood 
               "Never!" said Boltrope, undauntedly. 
                
               "Then take the death you have deserved for piracy and murder." 
               "That the law would baffle." 
               "True, true! many knaves escape punishment that way. I'll make sure of you while I have you," cried Smallwood. 
               He cocked his pistol, the click of which sounded very disagreeably in the ears of the smugglers, who, posted in a narrow road with lofty cliffs on each side of them, could not tell in the darkness of the night in which direction the shots might come, or who might chance to be alive to tell their tale after the next disgrace. 
               The smagglers, however, who had often been where shots and shells were flying, did not require orders or instructions how to bear themselves, and Boltrope, after the last threat of Josiah Smallwood, did as his comrades had already done, that is, threw himself at his full length on the wet sands, by which manuvre the shots again passed over him without doing any harm, when, springing to his feet, the fire before noticed blazed up, and displayed the half-dozen preventives in its broad and yellow glare, the old man exclaimed- 
               "Ou! charge! down with the blood-thirsty scoundrels who refused quarter. Death to them all! No mercy for them! Death!-if possible, the death of soul and body!" 
               Surprised at an act so daring-an act which must expose the smugglers to suffer the penalties of treason and rebellion-the preventive-men looked on the advancing madmen with amazement, feeling them selves partly cowed. Owing to the dazzling light which broke on the pitchy darkness, as the preventive's watch-fire suddenly burnt up, the first discharge of the smugglers had been thrown away, and Smallwood drew off his men behind a small ridge or hillock of sand near the opening of the road, which gave his party the immediate advantage, by checking the advance of Boltrope and his companions, and led to a parley, which Josiah Smallwood commenced by telling the old contrabandist he wondered at his temerity in venturing to attack a government station and ordering both him and his companious to surrender without delay, if they expected to receive fair treatment, or preserve their lives. 
               "'Tis too late now, and our force is nearly equal," answered the intrepid steersman, whose quick eye, now the light had become steady, had rapidly ran over the number of his opponents. 
               "Fool!" exclaimed Smallwood, with a bitter sneer, "our companions, drawn hither by the firing, will soon render our force overpowering. Surrender, then, if you have any hope of mercy." 
               "Never!" 
               "I tell you 'twill be worse if you resist." 
               The advancing smugglers seemed to pause. 
               "What!" exclaimed Boltrope, "you'll not surrender?" 
               "Remember, you will be all safe if you do," cried Smallwood 
               "Not after firing on you," returned Boltrope. "On 'em, my friends, you are in for it now, and the gallows gapes for you, turn which way you will.' 
               "Fool! let this stop your tongue," cried Smallwood. 
                
               He discharged his pistol, and guided by the steady light of the fire, took aim with such a deadly intention, that the bullet grazed all the nap off the shoulder of Boltrope's watch-coat. 
               "Well meant," said the tough old steersman, as the wind of the bullet stung the lower part of his cheek in passing. "Pretty play; but no luck, as the sayin' is. Now show 'em what you can do, and make 'em dance to the tune of Derry Down. D-n the anchor on their buttons, and the gallows that frowns behind them. Fire." 
               The smugglers, obedient to the commands of their steersman, fired a volley, which was returned by the preventives, and then the former, drawing their cutlasses, rushed to the attack. 
               As is very frequently the case, the temerity of the smugglers in attacking at every hazard a government force staggered men accustomed to an unqualified submission to their authority, and the preventives stood for an instant confounded by a movement so sudden and expected, scarcely knowing what to do in their emergency. 
               They were astounded-not afraid. Startled by the audacity of men they had previously devoted to destruction, they could now perceive how far they had miscalculated their own strength. Still resolved to do their duty, they drew their cutlasses also, and, uttering a cheer, rushed upon their advancing opponents. 
               The ease with which a moving body can be met and turned, is well known. Making a sudden change, the preventives drove the contrabandists before them. The former were thus enabled to occupy the vantage ground, by placing their own backs against the fire-light, which threw its lurid gleam on the faces of their opponents. 
               Notwithstanding this advantage of light, the smugglers made so determined a resistance, that the puzzled preventives would have willingly retreated if their opponents had not kept them too busily in play to afford time for such a manuvre. Besides, they knew their firing must alarm the coast-guard, and assistance would follow as a matter of course. Despairing, therefore, of being able to conquer men so equal in number, and daring in disposition, they warily determined to act on the defensive till their companions should come to the rescue, well knowing that, as the tide was now on the ebb, the smugglers' boat would soon be high and dry, when, not having means of retreat they would be compelled to surrender; and, indeed, needed all their skill in attack and defence to effect this object. 
               Watch, whom we left urging on his boat's crew towards the landing place from whence the firing proceeded, hearing volley after volley, felt himself wrought up to frenzy in his desire to succor his companions, and urged his men to exertions beyond their strength. The detection and punishment of their whole body hinged upon a mere contingency. The taking of a living, or recognition of a dead smuggler, might lead to the discovery and consequent ruin of their whole band. The boat's crew already sent ashore were well known in the immediate neighborhood. They had friends and family connections residing there: friends who would be called upon to afford the slain the rite of sepulture, and thus, by the very enarities of life, lend eyes to a suspicion which as yet labored blindly and without direction. 
                
               Our hero's mind was in a state of perturbation he could not conceal. The loss of every prospect most dear to him seemed to hinge upon this moment of anxiety and alarm. The weight destined to crush his happiness hung on the passing hour. It trembled on so fine a balance that like the effect of a passing cloud on the accumulated Alpine snows a mere breath seemed sufficient to send it down to bury all he cherished. 
               A deep silence had succeeded the first volley. All was hushed as death on board the advancing boat; the blood crept chilly through the veins of the smuggler crew, while they thought of their friends ashore. Two minutes had clapsed-the contrabandist leader scarcely breathed during the pause. Another volley startles them. 
               "Pull, my lads, pull!" cried Watch, in an anxious tone. "Pull! the darkness of the night may protect our friends till we arrive to the rescue. Those are preventive shots; the sound did not travel inland. Pull away then, we may yet be in time to save them. 
               Another lapse in the firing took place, during which, as has already been narrated, Boltrope and his companions got ashore, and held parley with the preventives. Maddened by the pause, which might be taken as conveying import of good or evil, Watch called on his men for renewed exertions. The boat's crew laid themselves down to their work with proper spirit, and pulled with a vigor that made their craft seem to devour the distance. 
               "On, on, my friends!" cried their steersman every moment; "on! our friends lack us!-they have need of us!-they will be butchered if we arrive not in time to prevent their murderers." 
               The landing-place whither they held their course was yet distant three-quarters of a mile. The ebbing tide was against them; but giving way, one and all, their intrepid steersman kept the boat's head in a direct line for the opening of the cliff, and, as she went bellowing through the water, every moment brought them nearer. 
               Another volley suddenly broke on the silence of the night. The well practised ear of the contrabandist chief speedily detected the sound. Scarcely half a minute has elapsed, however, ere that volley is returned. 
               "There is little harm done yet," cried Watch, in a tone of exultation. "That last is a fire on our side of the question. Pull lads! pull as if you would save your own lives. Three minutes more, and we run the boat into the inlet. But in time to save our friends from slaughter. Pull one! pull all." 
               "Iss, Massa Batch," said Delaware Dick, straining his herculean limbs to their fullest capability of extension, "a long pull, an a trong pull, an' a pull altogeder. Dat my bay, 'ben a warnt to get along, as dey say'n New York." 
               "Yet have a care, friends, Get our fellows off, d'ye hear. Cover their retreat, if possible, without firing a shot. This night's accident may go hard with some else." 
               "Its hard to control men when the blood's up," grumbled Binnacle, who rowed in the same bank with the negro. 
                
               "Dat jist bot mysalp, Massa Binnacle. "A pose dep fire at os-he fire at dem," cried Delaware. 
               "Hov coorse!" said Binnacle. 
               "No, my friend, it is not of course," exclaimed Watch. "I feel there is more danger in this nightis work than in anything we have done yet. Be wary therefore; take a shot rather than return it. It's my advice, and my advice is for the best. More mischief may arise from our present work than you seem to think. 
               "Look a dis now," said the negro, taking up the argument in turn. "On'y 'ou look a dis now. I bonce oberboard in d' Atlantic-berry large place dat." 
               "Don't talk, but pull." 
               "Bell, am pullin', aint I? Bell, as a sed afore, dey trow out hencoop. Bell de docks an' gis put out der necks, an' qua, qua, qua, qua! sed de ducks an gis. Damn 'ou qua, qua, qua, qua, sed I: bish I could git 'ole ob 'ou, dat all. Bell, a did git 'ole ob 'em at lars. Qua, qua, qua, qua! bent de docks an gis mos' ferociously; but a 'jis jomp a'tride de hencoop, and drown dere dam qua, qua, qua, qua, qua, and sabe mysely. Dat is all to be justify, I tink. I'm a free tinker on dis p'int; cos it 'tand to reason. De docks an' gis not being any good till dem dead, and man not being any good aper him dead. Ha, ha, ya! I take it from dem reason it bos p'rfactly right to kill em." 
               "Very true, Delaware, very true," said Binnacle. 
               "Bot a bout 'your opine, Massa Batch," said the negro. 
               "It was an act necessary for your own preservation." 
               "Ad' derefore justify?" 
               "Certainly." 
               "Den a sh'uld jus like to know bot de prebentib pepl' are if dey aint jis de same as de docks an' gis in de hencoop. Dey kill os ip be don't kill dem. Dey justify dat, I justify dis. See 'ou dat?" 
               This round-about explanation of right on the part of the negro, set the whole boat crew laughing, with which jocund spirit the feelings of Watch were in complete variance. 
               "Hark ye, my men!" cried he, in a tone of authority, "I find, that by leading you safely through the late conflict, I have given you a relish for human blood from which much danger may spring. I have given my orders and expect obedience. Get our companions off without firing a shot, if such a thing be possible. If I am disobeyed in this you had better elect another leader: and as we met in friendship, part as friends, for we never can agree again." 
               A murmur ran through the boat's crew on hearing this; but the boat had now rounded the cliff, and Watch, leaving the helm, passed from thwart to thwart, and bearing a torch in his left and a drawn cutlas in his right hand, stood ready to be the first ashore. 
               Had the preventives, instead of holding the smugglers in play, to give their companions of the coast-guard time to reach the scene of action, fought boldly, it is very possible that neither Boltrope nor his companions had escaped them. As the event turned out, the friends of the contrabandists arrived first, and inclined the victory in their favor. 
               At the time Watch and his party steered up the inlet, two of the smugglers lay stretehed on the ground, stiff and faint from loss of blood, while the remaining three had much ado to defend themselves. 
               "A government boat!" shouted a preventive on seeing the vessel's head round the entrance to the landing. The assertion startled Boltrope, who, for a moment, losing the eye of his opponent, the preventive man's sword cut through his rough sea-cap, and sliced his forehead. The old man staggered, but did not fall. 
               "Friends, friends! a rescue! Down with the preventives!" in the well-known voice of their leader, reassured them. 
               The keel of the boat hardly grated on the sand and shingle ere Watch was ashore with half-a-dozen contrabandists at his heels. As he approached, the eye of Smallwood rested on him. 
               "The captain of the black schooner!" cried he. 
               The next minute, a ball from the unerring aim of the uegro stretehed Smallwood on the sands, and his companions fled, or to use a less unseemly term in the ears of the service, retreated, while Watch, with the wounded smugglers aboard, made all convenient speed for Welling's Hole. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE leader of the smugglers had not made more than half the distance betwixt him and the secret repository for contraband goods, ere several parties of preventives from the more distant stations arrived by several ways at the scene of action. Guess their consternation, on finding three of their brethren stretched, apparently lifeless, on the sands. They were soon joined by two preventives who had been compelled to retire before the reinforcement brought by Watch, and who now informed the newly arrived preventive men of all the particulars of the late desperate conflict; nor, to do them justice, did they enhance their own valor in their narration, nor seek to depreciate the daring courage of their opponents, to whom they were willing to assign the second grade in the scale of bravery. 
               The boat that had brought old Boltrope and his brother contrabandists ashore lay high and dry aground, a circumstance that seemed to threaten them with discovery; and, of course, filled the preventives with hope they should yet succeed in ferreting out the desperate gang of smugglers who had so long eluded them. 
               Watch, independent of his anxiety for the safety of his people, had his own reasons for not wasting his time in a vain attempt to get her off, which reasons will presently be manifested; nor was his leaving the boat to be captured by such of the preventive coast-guard as might be drawn unto the spot by the sound of the fire-arms, so impolitic an action as at the first glance it might be taken for. 
                
               Accustomed, through a long course or wariness and caution, the elements of a smuggler's existence, to weigh the consequences of his measures previous to adopting them, the decoy boat employed by the smugglers had been stolen from Broadstairs, so that the preventives, in taking it, had no actual clue to the perpetrators of the hoax intended to be played on the revenue people. In leaving her behind him, therefore, he felt himself perfectly secure. 
               The grief of mortals is always tinctured with a little selfishness, and the preventive-man, like the shipwrecked mariners in Don Juan, who 
                      
                        "Grieved for those who perished in the cutter, 
                        And also for the biscuit, beef, and butter!" 
                     
                   found their sorrow for the loss of their companions somewhat compensated by the seizure of the decoy boat and her cargo. Fully intent on preserving this, they placed a strong detachment at the gorge of the inlet, to frustrate any attempt or intention of the smuggler owners to recapture the boat, while another party took up their wounded companions, who still breathed and moved, in a slow and mournful procession, to the nearest preventive station. 
               Josiah Smallwood, who had only been stunned by the shot of Delaware Dick, which was so near a toucher as to have passed through the hat and grazed the scalp of the preventive-man in its progress, had sufficiently recovered himself to sit bolt upright, though as yet his senses had not returned. He, therefore looked around him with a confused air, staring wildly in the faces of his brother preventives, and after a minute or two of apparent struggle for recollection, demanded- 
               "Where are they?" 
               "Who?" 
               "The smugglers. The smugglers with whom we have been fighting. I saw him. I am sure it was him. His eyes-his eyes I should know him amongst a thousand." 
               "Know who?" asked one of the new comers. 
               "The murderer of my late captain and his crew," answered Josiah-"the captain of the black schooner." 
               "You are dreaming" 
               "I am not. I saw him only for a moment during the conflict: but he has a face, once seen, not easily forgotten. I shall remember him a thousand years, if I live so long." 
               "Then the schooner must be somewhere hereaway." 
               "She must! she must!" 
               "If Old Nick hasn't favored her, as you told everybody he did before, Master Josey." 
               "And I say so ag'in," said Josiah suredly; "none but the devil or a Lapland witch, who sells wind by the yard, could have worked his craft out with a crippled mainmast, and the wind blowin' dead ashore. And none but devils could have fou't as the smuggler's boat's crew have fou't to-night, say what you will, or believe what you may." 
               "They fou't right bravely, to give them their due," observed one of the two preventives who had retreated on the landing of Watch and his companions. "They fon't like brave fellows as they are, whatever their calling is, and seemed to know as much of the sword exercise as we did, with all our practice and teachment." 
               "One of you must accompany me to Ramsgate," said Josiah. 
               "What for?" 
               "The black schooner!" 
               "Well?" 
               "Is hereabout. Captain Trunion must be apprised, and the coast scoured." 
               "Doubtless she's off by this," observed a preventive, "and we have had so many false alarms already, that if this should turn out to be so, we shall all get into disgrace." 
               "This is no false alarm," said Josiah Smallwood solemnly. "I'll swear I saw her captain. I recognized him as he stood before me. A moment afterwards I lay senseless on the strand-I saw no more." 
               "He must certainly be mortal." 
               "If he is mortal, I will not sleep," exclaimed Smallwood. "I will not rest until I have ferreted him out, and brought him to justice for the murder of Rowcraft and my shipmates." 
               Thus saying Josiah Smallwood contrived to get on his feet, and leaning on the arm of a brother preventive, took his way by the common path to Ramsgate, to acquaint the captain with the re-appearance of the black-rigged schooner, and arrived at the house in which he still lodged with all possible haste. 
               They found their captain, who had been roused by the repeated volleys of fire-arms, which told of the smugglers whereabout, already dressed and prepared to receive them, and were accordingly ushered up-stairs by Pedro Alexiowitz Poniatowski, who still coutinued to fill the office of two-handed body servant to the master and commander, and evinced not the best of temper at being roused so early from his bed. 
               "Dis not suspectible," said the Saint Domingo black, grumbling at every step he took; "dis not suspectible at all t'ring de bell dis time ob de night. De hosse bill lose all char'cter an' repetition, bigor Cou'dn do no more dan 'sturb us dis bay ip it were a potticary's, say dat." 
               "We can't help our duty." 
               "You' dooty; do 'ou dooty in praper time, dere aint no tolrability in such doins," repeated the irate man of color. "Do 'ou tink peepl' don' warnt dere rest when dey go t' bed." 
               "We can't help the smugglers." 
               "Who warn' 'ou to halp de smogl'rs-' ou warnt ye ha? You' duty put dem down-not halp 'em-a 'spose a know dat mortch; but a'm free to 'spose 'em do dat quietly, not kick op sich inpernal dam n'ise in de middle ob de night, stubin peepl' who nat'rally warnt dere congrongshouable rest," said Pedro sharply. 
               And satisfied he had succeeded in astounding them by the show of authority he had assumed, he proceeded to inform his master of their arrival, and by his desire admitted them to the drawing-room. 
               "What is the matter, my men?" questioned the master and commander, as Josiah and his companion entered the apartment. "What occasioned the firing, which so disturbed us all?" 
               "We have had a bout with the smugglers, who have been so long expected," answered Josiah Smallwood. 
               "Have you made capture?" 
               "Of a boat they attempted to run your honor. Two of our force have been desperately wounded in doing so, ond I myself ran close hazard of being shot." 
               "The devil!" 
               "Your honor," said Josiah in a tone of astonishment, while he fixed his eyes on Captain Trunnion's countenance with an expression of inquiry- 
               "I did not mean to interrupt you." 
               "We have been disgraced ag'in, your honor." 
               "How?" 
               "Have been compelled to run before them." 
               "I thought you said you had made capture?" 
               "Yes, your honor, of a boat, high and dry, with her cargo. Another boat's crew drove us before them, and carried off their companions, so that we've no pris'ners." 
               "None!" 
               "None, your honor; an' its my firm conviction as they are assisted by powers they should not be assisted by, for I'm very certain, your honor, that the black schooner"-- 
               "Has she arrived then?" 
               "Why, I ha'nt seen her as yet your honor; but I'm certain she's on the coast." 
               "How?" 
               "If ever I set my eyes on mortal man, I have seen her skipper to-night, your honor." 
               "Where?" 
               "He has the devil's luck and his own, your honor, for just as we had conquered the first boat's crew, he led in a reinforcement, drove off our party, and rescued the men as we'ed been fighting with." 
               "How foolish I have been to relax my discipline," pondered Captain Trunnion. "The report I treated so lightly was true after all; but," added he, turning to Josiah Smallwood, "if we move more quickly we may take the rascals yet." 
               "Without a doubt, your honor." 
               "Follow me aboard instantly, Smallwood. I'll get the Wasp under weigh directly, and send all the boats out. The rascals think they have deceived me a second time; but if there be a possibility of taking them, they shall not escape this time." And the whole party were soon in motion for the beach. 
               The crew of the revenue cutter was soon in action, and while the boats belonging to the preventive service scoured all the coasts, the Wasp had passed the foreland, on her way to Margate Roads, the direction indicated by Smallwood as affording the craft of the smuggler present anchorage, if she were rash enough to venture on riding there. For the black-schooner herself, she had attained a degree of celebrity which had been highly gratifying to her commander and crew had they been employed in more legitimate pursuits. Her various escapes and achievements as well as the wonderful accounts of her commander, as country-folk are fond of the marvellous, had noised their fame from Canterbury Cathedral to the celebrated cliff of Shakspere. Smallwood believed in nothing more firmly than that she subsisted by supernatural agency, or if his mind yet retained a tincture of reason un-embued by superstition it depended entirely on the success or failure of their present expedition. In his idea the contrabandist's crew must be devils, and not men, if, after having seen and recognized her captain the black schooner should now be spirited away, and escape them, and in this belief he persisted. 
               Nor was Smallwood's belief beyond reason, or idly superstitious. He knew it was utterly impossible, the wind continuing in its present quarter, to work a vessel round the foreland in the direction she must take to escape capture: his opinion, therefore was not singular. As vet unacquainted with the fact of the schooner's complete metamorphosis, we can hardly blame his superstition, and should she be enabled, under such adverse circumstances, and with an active, numerous enemy alarmed along the coast to make her escape, the seaman's belief should not be ascribed to weakness, sailors having time out of mind agreed that one of the powers exercised by Beelzebub, is a capability of sailing against the wind-a thing that no mortal mariner has been able to accomplish since the invention of the compass, how nearly soever they may have approached this wonderful achievement of nautical knowledge. 
               Determined on securing the prize he was in search of, Captain Trunnion made the best dispositions he could under the circumstances, taking a good offing, while the preventive boats commanded the line of shore. He spoke every vessel, inquiring for the schooner after the description given by Smallwood, which description was confirmed by Trunnion's own knowledge, but without effect. No such vessel had been seen. He descried, however, a schooner-rigged craft of a different description, but about the same tonnage, after he had passed the foreland. 
               The kedge at which the latter rode was slipt on the approach of the government cutter, and she held on her course, under easy sail, as if neither courting nor avoiding its observation. Whereupon Captain Trunnion made instant chase, and in half an hour had his cutter nearly abreast the reputed smuggler, and how far exceeding her reputation the reader is already acquainted. A shot-a-head now informed Jorgan Janson that his craft was in immediate requisition. 
               The artful Jorgan instantly hoisted his colors and slackened sail, when Trunnion, with Josiah Smallwood as his coxswain, that he might have means at hand to identify the captain of the contrabandist, if he should be found on board, was rowed towards the suspected craft to search her, as in duty bound. 
               Leaving the captain of the revenue-cutter in the fulfilment of this important branch of his duty, we will now return to our hero and his boat's crew, whom, after their skirmish with the preventive-men, we left pulling with all speed for Welling's Hole, with their wounded companions. 
               While thus engaged, Watch found his mind in a state of great perplexity by Smallwood's recognition, and the superstition commonly entertained, namely, that murder cannot be hidden, began to startle his hopes, and dash his anticipations with bitterness. Hitherto he had fondly imagined, that with the cutter and crew of Lientenant Rowcraft every evidence that might serve to ideatify the perpetrators of that daring outrage, or bring them to justice, had been destroyed. In Smallwood's recognition, it seemed as if the very grave sent forth an evidence against him, and embued with natural superstition, as are all persons of a warm or sanguine temperament, he trembled while he contemplated the consequences prospectively to arise from this circumstance. 
               Persons other than Josiah Smallwood might have been saved from the wreck of Rowcraft's cutter, who might, like that individual, be able to identify him. With respect to Smallwood's recognition, the fortune that had sustained him through so many perils seemed still to follow him. He had seen Josiah stretched apparently lifeless on the strand, and knew the generally unerring aim of his negro companion. Of the evidence of Captain Trunnion he entertained no fear: though he knew and could identify him as the captain of the Witch, there was nothing criminal in his knowledge. Indeed, had Watch been seen by any of the crew of the Wasp, the point-blank identification of Josiah Smallwood had not startled him. As circumstances had turned out, he knew-he felt-that others might have been saved from the general quarry, and suffered under a suspense more terrible than the most horrid certainty. 
               All other evidence he defied-for granting himself known as the captain of the schooner who had so boldly overleapt all the barriers of law, and by an act of piracy and murder, escaped its penalties. All other evidence, save that of the commission of the actual fact charged, would, nay, necessarily must, fail in making out a case of any weight against him, or amounting higher than a grave and heavy suspicion at the utmost. 
               Under the influence of many thoughts, crowded into his mind by a circumstance so uncalculated on, Watch gave way to a moody silence, while his boat's crew, equally desirous of screening themselves from the observation of any preventive man who might be watching for them on the cliffs above, and of whose deadly intentions towards them they were carrying the silent and bleeding memorials, pulled towards the outer cavern, where having deposited their wounded companions, and left them to the care of Farmer Welling, they made for the schooner, which they reached in safety. 
                
               Watch, who had previously decided on leaving the schooner to make her way to the London market, while he made his unto the hostelry that contained the objects of his dearest and most ardent solicitude, found no inducement, in his recognition by Josiah Smallwood, to change that purpose; but was rather inclined to keep himself as little as possible in situations in which he might be exposed to the inspection of any of the preventive body, fraught as it had become with dangers against which it would be impossible to guard. 
               Seeking the inner cave, therefore, with the wounded contrabandists-for our hero rarely left a duty unperformed which craved his personal attendance-he, for the first time, became acquainted with Mister Timothy Clark, the new member of their fraternity. On this subject Watch thought, as the blunt farmer had before expressed himself, namely, that their secret repository for contraband goods was known to too many already, and was, therefore, dissatisfied with the arrangement by which the ex-preventive man had been admitted to their body. Watch paused, however, to survey the features of the simple-looking and bull-headed Timothy, the lines of whose countenance rather spoke of honesty than guile, when the latter started back with a glance of recognition, and exclaimed- 
               "Why hoy, now, Marster Topman, I'm blest if wonders 'ull ever cease. As sure as my name's Timothy Clark our old cap'n himself's a smuggler. Well! arter that comes a horse to be shaved, and rubbed down with a wooden towel, as the sayin' is. Who'd ha' thought of diskiverin' a rogue wi' swabs on his shoulders!" 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "If this here aint the werry chap as I seed at breakfast wi' the cap'n the same mornin' as Pinnytiski scalded his shins. A judgment in my mind for his unnat'ral 'bomination of baccy! If this aint the werry chap I'm a Dutchman, and I aint half round enough in the starn for that, I know." 
               "This, Timothy, is our cap'n," said Topman, "and a braver or a better seamen never stept betwixt stem and stern. He breakfasted with Captain Trunnion as a private friend." 
               "A private what?" exclaimed Timothy, distending his little eyes in a look astonishment, while they twinkled with no little indignation at the world's perfidy. 
               "A private friend." 
               "Well, if ever I heard of sich a holding with the hare and a running with the hounds. My precious eyes and limbs! Why, it's flat mutiny acccrdin' to the articles of war." 
               "Psha! what do you know about the articles of war?" 
               "I not know nothin' about the articles of war!" cried the foremast-man in a pique. "Why, they wor read over unto me so often that I've got the meanin' of 'em jammed into my head, though I mayn't be over 'cute at minding the exact words; there's on'y one word of 'em all as I remember distinctly." 
               "Which is that, Master Timothy." 
               "Death!" answered the foremast-man, with a look as impenetrable as a brick-wall. "I remembers it a caus' it allus come last, as it nat'rally does, and finished all the articles, as it 'ull finish everything else in time. Well, to be sure! to think of Captain Trunnion's bein' friends wi' a smuggler." 
               "Well, Timothy!" said the master's mate. 
               "Well, Marster Topman!" cried Timothy, hitching up his trousers with a look of importance, while he discharged his mouth of the suporfluous tobacco-juice to give a deeper emphasis to his assertion. "Why arter that I sees no reason to the contraree." 
               And with features brimful of importance, his little cheeks puffed out with as much self-estimation as the large plug of tobacco he usually carried in the corner of his jaw left convenient room for in a single propulsion of breath, Timothy Clark thrust both his hands into his jacket pockets, and strode to the full extent of the cavern and back, as if he required no other argument to fix him in his new line of duty; while Watch, re-assured by the tone and manner of this special original, could scarcely forbear smiling at his pompous demeanor, which afforded so moving a commentary on human vanity. 
               While Timothy indulged in his reverie, Topman, who was an acquaintance for whose sake Watch would have hazarded a much greater imprudence than receiving an additional hand into their community, laid before his leader the various obligations he had been under to the foremast man: his staunch behavior under the difficulties which had resulted from the murder of Hardbrace, and the steadfast manner in which he had reconciled himself to death, rather than turn tail to a messmate in distress, completely won the consideration of our hero. He, therefore received Topman's protege with a friendly squeeze of the hand, convinced that he possessed too simple a nature to betray them, and knowing that himself and lawless companions had this, if they had no other security, that Timothy could not, even if he was so minded, return unto his old service without incurring the almost certain penalty of the gallows. 
               With such a security for the faithful intention of Timothy Clark, the smuggler leader determined to remain content: nor would he undo the further hold he had on his fidelity by setting the foremast-man right as to his impression on the subject of Captain Trunnion's derilection of duty in holding communication with the very men he was paid by Government to put down. When, therefore, laboring under an idea of the insufferable baseness of his fellow-creatures, Tim blew through his nostrils with the forceful impetuosity of a grampus, and walked up and down the cave, as if, propelled by steam power, he could only travel on lines, our hero suffered him to do so, without attempting to nudeceive him, or expurgate his late commander from the heavy charge which had just been laid against him, and which appeared so atrocious in the eyes of the honest seaman. 
               Timothy Clark is well known unto the reader for valiancy and vacillation; but his magnanimous sense of justice, like the magninimity of a martyr had here broken out, and, shining forth with singular resplendency, had raised his character to an equality with past worthies, so celebrated in the pages of poesy for their courage and the thickness of their heads. 
               Having left Timothy and Topman to attend the smugglers wounded in the late affray, with a promise they should join the schooner when she had discharged her cargo. Watch, having borrowed a suitable disguise of farmer Welling, commenced, two hours before daybreak, his solitary march towards the hostel. 
               Recent circumstances, and the tinge they had necessarily imparted unto his future fate, furnished ample matter for reflection to the smuggler as he walked along. Nor could he shake off the feeling of melancholy engendered by thus being hurried onward with resistless impetuosity in a course of piracy aud blood, towards a vortex which threatened his destruction. He felt he was a murderer. The law would call him so. The honor with which his native bravery might invest him, if exerted in a more legitimate sphere of action, perverted by his circumstances, would now serve to heighten the atrocity of his guilt.-All men would hiss at-all would scorn him. The very object of his choice, even the being wherein he had garnered up his hopes, might perchance be estranged from him, when she knew he could dower her with nothing but infamy. 
               There are few minds of sufficient firmness and constancy of habit to be capable of holding the opinions established amongst mankind in absolute indifference. Watch was no such stoic, and though by nature daring and impetuous, he was foolishly sensitive to the disgrace which, in the event of his detection and punishment, would blurr the reputation of all who were connected or allied with him. When alone, therefore, his spirits sank under the excitement of his circumstances-subdued by the deep anxiety, he felt to secure the fame of Susan Wylie beyond the reach of taint or calumny. He rallied himself, however, from the morbid state of feelings in which he was plunged. 
               "Yet she has already known me as a smuggler," murmured he, as these thoughts passed over his mind-thoughts infinitely more dreadful to him than any conception he could form of privation or punishment inflicted by his enemies-"and, after all, what have I done? Done that to others they would have done to me. Visited like for like. An eye for an eye-a tooth for a tooth. What signifies by what name the law shall call my deed. 'Twas a bold act, and nature justifies it. Besides, I belie myself. Am I not a freeman of Kent? Have I not lands and monies? lands which, spite of the power of the tyrant law, must descend to Susan and my children. Yes, yes! my children may inherit, though the laws should hang their father." 
               A streak of gray twilight glimmering in the east seemed to harbinger a fine October sun, when Watch had turned a bend in the road and entered a woody plantation. Here, on a broad slope, old Moll Purley and her companions had encamped themselves. The approach of the smuggler had been announced by her scouts. The old gipsey rushed forward and stood before him, while Watch, surrounded, felt his arms mastered, ere he had an opportunity of defending himself. 
               "Smuggler! pirate! murderer!" cried Moll Purley, "come you with the same stealthy step with which you trod over my poor child's heart? Look to yourself! Look to yourself, I say! Justice for Frontibelle, or the gallows gapes for you, and you shall die the death of a dog!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE due progress of our history requires us for the present to leave Watch in the custody of his gipsy captors, in order to acquaint the reader with such events as occurred subsequently to the night of Susan's intended abduction, in which we left the little sheriff in such imminent danger-fallen on a soil not his own, and proving, by his natural alacrity in sinking, that in love as in witchcraft, "fair is foul and foul is fair." 
               The reader will recollect that, on finding himself thus deep in love and semi-liquid, his outcries for assistance so astounded the pursuit as to give Barney Nous and his gipsy companions' ample time for escape, while the faculties of Hobbs and the countrymen, stunned by so uncommon an occurrence, gave way under a superstitition suitable to such an hour, and deemed no less that the voice which thus invoked them from "the vasty deep" could proceed from nothing earthly. They, therefore, stood stock still, and stared at each other, as described in the last chapter, betwixt two minds whether to render the assistance craved, or to run away from what might be a spirit of evil, when Bridget ran back for a lanthorn to settle all doubts on the subject. 
               Had the sheriff climbed a tree and shouted for assistance, the effect on the nerves of the party might have been somewhat different, nor would their fears have overmastered their reason; but hearing an outcry proceeding as it were out of the very bowels of the earth, a sound so unnatural completely overcame them. They looked at each other, but spoke not; no, not even to ask who was there, until Bridget, arriving with the lanthorns, discovered to their astonished vision a human being up to his middle in the cesspool. 
               "Divil burn yer-and is it there ye ar'?" asked the Irish maiden, on recognizing the leader of the late affray in the very middle of a mess. "Sure the like dthat's very proper porridge for a slieveen rogue like ye. Of all the blessed hours ay dthe four-an'-twinty, is this a dacint time to come fruit-st'aling?" 
               "I take heaven to witness I came for no such purpose," said the sheriff mournfully, and at the same time drawing his hat over his face, the better to conceal his features. 
               "If it fhasn't for dhat, fhot did ye come for!" asked Bridget again. "Sure sich hours as this has'nt no hanest m'anin' in dthem at all, at all." 
               "Believe me, good damsel, I merely came to gather the fruits of love," responded the prime man of the county, hardly knowing in his confusion what he uttered. 
               "The fruits av that?" cried Bridget, in a tone made up of mingled surprise and indignation, which flushed up in her face, and made her jowls resemble the color of the turkey-cock's. 
                
               "Of love!" said the mournful little man. 
               "Divil take your love!" exclaimed Mistress Bridget. "Do yer want ti be takin' my ca-racter afhay?" 
               "I!" 
               "Yis, you!" 
               "Far be such a thought from me." 
               "Thin fhot do ye mane by sayin' before dthese people, who are all witnesses av my conthract wid Misther Obadiah Hogsflesh, that I'd be encouragin' the likes av you for a follower? Hoo! Cachemaulya! and dirty butther to boot! Sure it's I d'hat know betther than to stoop so low and pick up nothin'." 
               And the Irish maiden turned on her heel, while a glance of indignation flashed from her eyes, and indicated her purity in those of her affianced husband's friends; and she tossed her head, with a toss expressive of her virtuous contempt of such a charge, and uttered an interjectional "um! um!" in a manner that showed she was fully sensible of her own powers of resistance. 
               "Will you not help me from this strait?" 
               "Do ye think I fhant to lose my ca-racter? Fhin I do, it 'ill be to help you into dthe cage for a dirty baste as ye ar'," said the offended maiden. "Is it the likes of you is to come takin' people's ca-racters away widout bein' punished accordin' to your desarts, and in dthe night-time, whin you might have done dthe Lord knows fhot to me, and I none the wiser. Hum! um! Fait I'll have ye before a magisthrate in dthe marnin'-so put dthat in your pipe and smoke it-take yer change out av it, and tell me how you likt the tobaccy. Ha! you're a nice man to be makin' love to a dacint 'ooman in a bastely state like that. But here comes Misther Hogsflesh, an' I'll ax him if I'm to be insulted in this way." 
               And Obadiah, who had just recovered sufficiently to raise himself from the ground and walk towarda his companions, he having been completely stunned by the well-aimed blow of Barney, now slowly moved down the pathway, wondering what could hold them in confabulation, or why they remained talking while he was in a state of insensibility. 
               "Och! yer come at last," cried Mistress Bridget, as he approached her. 
               Obadiah looked astounded. 
               "Don't stand starin', like a pig, in dthat way," continued the irate Irish-woman; but come for'ard and fhindicate my ca-racter, like a man as you ought to be." 
               And if Obadiah had previously looked astounded, the wrathful tone of the Irish maiden did not contribute to set him at his ease, for not having as yet been informed of the caption just made by his party, he neither understood her allusions nor could he account for the evident excitement under which she spake. He looked, therefore, as stupidly as he looked before, utterly at a loss to gather the most remote idea of her meaning, while he exclaimed- 
               "Lauk, Missus Bridget, how can I help it?" 
               "How can you help it!" cried the Irishwoman; "sure thin, if you can't hilp it, its a purty fool I am to be bothered wid the likes av ye. Fhot hopes can hanesht 'ooman have of a man as won't defend her ca-racter?" 
               "What am I to do?" inquired Hogsflesh, anxious to quell the perturbation of his fair inamorata. 
               "Can ye ax the like of dthat, whin there's a bastely fellow in the cisspool who wants to come over me wid his blarney, purtendin' ti be a follyer of mine?" cried the Irishwoman, urging on her lover to resentment; "as if iver I allowed sich a liberty to marchill man, let alone the likes of him." 
               "Who has dared?" questioned Obadiah filled with the alarms of love and jealousy and flourishing his cudgel vigorously as he spoke. "Who has dared? Where is he?" 
               "Fhere!" cried the ungovernable Bridget, pointing to the cesspool "Look into dthat, and convence yersilf." 
               Whereupon the anxious Obadiah approached the verge of the cesspool, and looked down upon the defamer of the future Mistress H. with a feeling of virtuous indignation that defies description. It was sufficient, howbeit, to appease the ire engendered in Bridget's bosom by his former coldness, and restore him unto his wonted dominancy over her heart; the tone in which he spoke calling a fire into her eye, which lit her comely features with admiration. 
               When Hogsflesh had thus vented his feelings, in a glance of jealous spite at his foul-footed rival, the party surrounding the cesspool took counsel one with another, on the means of replacing their victim on terra firma, when it was unanimously resolved to drag him to the earth's surface by means of a noosed rope that lay near them: upon which, Obadiah descending a ladder left there by Ephraim Clink when he had finished his previous day's labor, stood ready, rope in hand, with a noose dangling at its end, to execute the determination of the before mentioned council. 
               "Do not betray me, Obadiah!" whispered the little sheriff, reassured by the manner in which his ancient servitor threw the noose over his shoulders and adjusted it unto his lusty waist; for this operation to the credit of his humanity, was performed in a manner that convinced the county dignitary no immediate harm was intended unto him. 
               The well-known whisper of the county official, however, struck the affrighted serving-man even unto the midriff, and made him reel, and he trembled in such wise as man never trembled before, while his vibratory motion, conveying itself unto the ladder upon which he stood, it shook against the embankment in a manner that threatened to increase the concern of the Irish maiden, by making her sturdy lover an unwilling participator in his master's fate. 
               Albeit recovering from a shock so severe and unexpected, Hogsflesh, securing the end of the rope by coiling it round his arm, ascended the ladder, and regained the garden ground. 
               Here he whispered privately to Hobbs, who after a short pause, and with a mysterious expression of countenance suitable unto that occasion that called it forth, whispered to Hogsflesh again. Both parties then surveyed each other with something undefinable in their looks, while Bridget stared, quite unable to guess what was the matter with them. 
               "Blurganounters!" cried the Irish maiden, at length: "I don't know much about p'liteness an' breedin'-about dthe last in partic'lar it 'ud ill beseem a maid like me to know anything; but I'd jist like to know f'here dthe likes of you l'arnt manners, ti be whisperin in company in dthat fashion?" 
               The address of the Irish maiden proved in vain; it fell upon the ears of the sheriff's men with no more effect than would a bugle call have produced on the tympanum of a deceased sentinel, their faculties were so deeply astounded by the sudden discovery of the libidinous propehsities of their master. 
               "Try to supplant me!" cried Hogsflesh, at length, giving utterance unto his feelings in a marked emphasis of admiration. "I never heard of sich wickedness!" 
               "Nor hi heither," observed Mister Oliver. 
               And again mournfully shaking their heads, they interchanged another long look, to the great discomfiture of Mistress Bridget's patience, for with her, as with the greater number of her compatriots, 
                     "A thing resolved on was half performed,"
                   and who, not being as yet possessed of the secret cause of so much mystery, could not help tormenting her gentle bosom with strange conjectures on the oddness of their conduct. 
               The little sheriff in the meanwhile stood bolt upright in the soil in which he had suddenly found himself transplanted, afraid to stir, lest he should sensibly verify an old proverb. Yet, in the midst of these awkward circumstances, philosophy came unto his aid and he inwardly rejoiced at the fate which had sent his own man to the rescue, at the very moment he was dreaming of the horsepond and the cage; nay, framing, to his mind even worse indignities, if worse could be. But while he rejoiced he marvelled, wondering what lucky circumstance could have brought Hogsflesh so opportunely to the hostel. 
               Yet, though he pondered over these matters, it must be confessed that, like Mistress Bridget, he deemed it very strange, after having had the rope affixed around his body by his trusty man-servant, he should have been left so long in such an unpleasant plight. He little thought the interim was occasioned by Obadiah's acute consciousness of his moral delinquency. The faux pas of the sheriff, indeed, touched his man-servant more nearly than may be imagined at the first blush; for Hogsflesh, ever attentive to the calls of prudence, had mentally decided on requesting a service at Muddle-puzzle Hall for his wife elect, until they could turn themselves about, and get into something better. From a course at once so prudential and politic he now felt himself precluded; the nobler feelings of his nature revolted from it: he could not confide his honor to the custody of such a master. 
               "Bad ind to ye's both! fhy does ye's be starin' so?" cried Mistress Bridget, interrupting the silence into which a deep sense of astonishment had plunged her husband elect, and the friend of his bosom. "One 'ud think ye's had diskivered a fairy." 
               "Oh, Missus Bridget,' cried Hogsflesh, with a faint shudder at the idea of having his path of love trodden by one of the aristocracy, "it isn't a fair he-but a foul he." 
               "Hin hevery sense hov the word," said Mr. Oliver Dobbs. 
               The manly heart of the little sheriff, which had leaped up into his throat, in its eagerness to pour out its thanksgivings, seemed to knock with a double knock at the offices of the brain, when its master, on hearing the well-known accent of his cockney follower, deemed he had another friend in the field. It now sunk "deeper and deeper still," as the amazonian Bridget exclaimed, while she flourished the awful weapon above her head, to the force of which the sheriff had already been compelled to succumb, 
               "Thin honeys, thrag him out, and give him to my vingince!" 
               "Missus Bridget, Missus Bridget, it can't be done! you don't know what you demand," cried Hogsflesh, in alarm; "it will be the ruin of every one of us." 
               "Hi, for one, can't never consent to it!" followed Mr. Oliver Hobbs, with his usual superciliousness of expression; "hinvolving sich hawful eonsequences has hit hunquestionably dose." 
               "Arrahmonduil?" cried the irate Bridget, snatching the rope from the hands of her lover, flourishing the pale above her head in the St. George guard, and looking upon her companions with a look of fury that sent them several paces in a retrogade movement. "Arrahmondoil! who ever thaught av axing the consint av the likes av ye's!" 
               Mistress of the rope, the Irishwoman, exerting all her strength, gave it a mighty tug, that made the sheriff almost dissolve with fear. He felt his legs going from under him-a fact which such of our readers who have studied the philosophy of involuntary motion in an upward direction can readily appreciate. In short, his head projecting forward as the more ignoble extremities lost their ordinary powers of balance, he was threatened with all the horrors of suffocation. 
               In this delimma he lustily bellowed murder, whereupon Hogsflesh and Hobbs made a virtue of necessity, and communicated the fact to the private ear of Mistress Bridget; and it is almost needless to say that such a fact suspended her operations, from a recollection of the zeal he had displayed on her behalf on a former occasion; though, truth to say, she began to consider her charms considerably above par, in that they had attracted the attention of the first man of the county. 
               "Arrah, now! you don't say so?" said Mistress Bridget, with a long drawl, at the same time relaxing her hold on the rope to which the sheriff was appended. 
               "'Tis true, Missus Bridget, I assure you," said Hogsflesh. 
                
               "Hand hi hall-so," asseverated Hobbs. 
               "Who'd ha' thought it!" exclaimed Mistress Bridget: "but honeys, if he was the King of England himself, he should never git over my modesty; sure I'm too good a judge for d'that, any way." 
               Hogsflesh, who felt his heart expand with virtuous pleasure on hearing this declaration of his bride elect, pressed the back of his hand exactly on the fifth rib of Mister Oliver Hobbs, as much as to say, "see what a treasure I have found." And then both assisted Mistress Bridget in replacing their master on terra firma.
                
               "Silence!" whispered Hogsflesh in the ear of the sheriff, as he replaced that dignitary on the earth; "silence, my dear sir, at least till we have got rid of the countrymen." 
               "Your honor may rely on hus," said Mr. Hobbs, with the same mystery of gesticulation. "Hany hindiscretion hon hour parts you har secure against; hi can't say as much for hour companions." 
               Thus assured of the silence and discretion of his two principal attendants, the little sheriff, pulling the expansive hat upon his brow, the better to conceal his features from observation, marvelled still further at the singular fortune which, after so many vicissitudes, had left him captive unto his own men; and though he could not suppress a sigh for the loss of his time and money, and though something like a feeling of repining under the disgrace he had incurred in the eyes of his immediate followers arose in his mind, he breathed a thanksgiving that he was so far safe. Bridget, on the other hand, believing his maurauding assault had been intended for her, looked at his disguise, and wondered where his sense could have been to try to make love in a garb like that. 
               Hitherto not one suspicion had crossed her brain as to the real object of the sheriff's attempt upon the inn at so unreasonable an hour. That it could have no reference to Mistress Margaret, the Irish maiden's looking-glass was sufficient evidence. The indispensable requisite to female propriety of demeanor had taught Mistress Bridget to turn up her nose in lofty scorn at any idea of rivalry from that quarter, while the disparity of the sheriff's age with Mistress Susan's forbade the finger of suspicion to point in the only true direction. She felt inwardly convinced his fraudful intentions must have had herself for their object, and was at a loss to discover to what attraction in particular she owed this present painful proof of his attachment. But, notwithstanding the indignation she felt at the outrage he had contemplated against her person, the tenderness of the woman prevailed, and she forgave him the indiscretion of which he had been guilty, from a consideration that it must have been prompted by his admiration of her prowess, or virtue, or modesty of deportment, or that ineffable combination of qualities, which our neighbors call a je ne sais quoi.
                
               Pending this course of contemplation, Bridget leaned upon her lover's arm, who, on his part, proud of her virtue as her beauty, felt himself elevated above all sublunary matters, by the blissful idea that such a being would so soon be his rightful property. 
               Hobbs shuffled along at the sheriff's elbow, patiently waiting until that dignitary should be pleased to communicate the secret motive for his being there in such a disguise, and at such an hour. 
               At the idea that the sheriff had been actuated by his designs on the person of Miss Bridget, the secretary laughed, and not without some reason, for he deemed Hogsflesh nothing less than mad for venturing on the bold step of marrying the amazon; but then, it must be confessed, he knew nothing of the secret hoard which Mistress Bridget had amassed, a knowledge that Hogsflesh had kept wholly to himself, lest such a circumstance should multiply the number of his rivals, and so have a tendency to nullify his hopes of a comfortable settlement. 
               While these various feelings and speculations kept the musings of the several parties confined within their respective bosoms, the little sheriff could not help mentally recurring unto the different mishaps which had befallen him since he first had the temerity to form a design on the person of the fair maiden of the hostelry. To his mental vision she indeed appeared more like some heroine of Oriental romance, than a creature formed in mortal mould, and bred in homely England. When he thought of the continued want of success that attended his efforts, he could hardly help believing her the protected object of some genius of greater potency than his own. Every effort he had hitherto made, had not only proved unsuccessful, but had involved him in adventures as ridiculous as they were unpleasant; and he began to think, at last, what he should have pondered at the outset, namely, that had his pursuits been confined within more moderate limits, they would have better borne the visitation of reason. 
               These thoughts gave rise to a species of compunction, such as might be supposed to animate the bosom of a truant boy, who, desirous of fruit, finds the orchard wall too high for him, and who, therefore, determines to be honest, because he cannot be otherwise. His vexation was much deeper than his contrition. He felt mortified at being exposed unto the gaze of his servants and dependents in so dolorous a plight, and was half inclined to cry with shame. But notwithstanding a feeling so proper and commendable, the animus which originally prompted his daring attempt had not yet left him, nor could he ever banish it when he thought of the large sum he had squandered on its object, without reaping the promise of success, or the danger he would incur had he been entirely successful. 
               But though his vain desires, stimulated by the mortifications he had endured, still triumphed in his mortal part, they had become somewhat languid by over action, and his more sober habits of reasoning momently gained greater power, until he had become convinced there was now less probability than ever of his obtaining the object of his secret aspirations, and that the improbability of success did not so much depend on any want of aid in his nefarious designs, as upon circumstances over which nothing mortal had controul; nay, some of which he had unwittingly made for himself. Like Coleridge's ancient mariner, therefore, 
                      
                        "He went like one that had been stunn'd, 
                        And is of sense forlorn; 
                        A sadder and a wiser man, 
                        He rose the morrow morn," 
                     
                  
                   Leaving him to gather the half-ripened fruits of repentance, we must return to the chamber of the object of all these plots and counterplots, where Susan lay at the mercy of her gipsy nurse. 
               Pending the early moments of the struggle which took place in the garden betwixt the gipsies, under their bold and cunning leaders, the Mavis and Barney Nous, on the one side, and the rescue, commanded by Mistress Bridget Mullaghney, on the other, Moll Purley stood, as described in the last chapter, gazing on the belligerents beneath her window, utterly confounded by the suddenness of the irruption. She had raised her sleeping charge in her arms, for the purpose of lowering her, insensible as she was, into those of the abductors, and stood within a pace or two of the window, where, almost breathless with anticipation, she counted every blow. 
               She saw the sheriff fall beneath the arm of the brawny Irish maiden; she saw her own party advance, and her heart expanded with the hope of victory; they were met, they were turned, they were driven back again; she could not endure to see herself defeated at the very moment of promised success. Slowly retreating, therefore, she laid her sleeping victim on the bed, and then returned to the post she had quitted to witness the termination of the conflict. 
               To describe the feelings of the gipsy-woman, while she stood looking at the blows showered on her swarthy children by the brawny Irish maiden, would require a pen of more than mortal power, and ink of a deeper red than ever graced 
                     "Lintot's rubric post!"
                   Bridget whirled "her weapon like a meteor of the night," while the old gipsy looked on her valor with an emulation that caused her to wish herself in the middle of the fray. Indeed, the pole of the Irish woman seemed endued with all the terrors in which the men of Cyprus arrayed the axe of our first Richard, and in the hands of the Irishwoman, right worthy was it of a similar investiture. Directed by her, sought the heads of her opponents in every direction; whirling with a flourish, or descending in a crash, that certainly never attended the baton of a modern band-leader. Assuredly, if the monarch of the axe were said to bear a lion's heart, the maid-sernant of the hostel might lay claim to possess the heart of a lioness, by the valor with which she astonished the vision of Moll Purley, and filled that obdurate hag with a mixed feeling of terror and admiration. 
               The old gipsy, sensible that her plot for carrying off Susan Wylie, and devoting her to her son Bernard was defeated, at least for the present, unable to endure the disgrace of such a defeat, covered her face with her hands, and shed tears of very spite and vexation. She had seen the sheriff crawl away from the conflict, a victim to the amazon, in the absence of whose prowess the gipsies had certainly been invincible. She had heard the Mavis, not only call out "leg bail," when he missed his leader, but also set an example in running, that was eagerly followed by Barney Nous and his remaining companions. Her faculties sunk under the sight. 
                
               In painful cogitation old Moll remained for some seconds so totally absorbed by a sense of her utter defeat, as to be unable as yet to frame another plot for the removal of Mistress Susan Wylie, and she sat completely astonished by the new turn given to affairs at the hostel, just as her hopes seemed about to be satisfied. 
               The noise of the contest and the shout of triumph had alike died away in distance, when she found herself suddenly aroused from her lethargy by the loud cries uttered by the little sheriff in his extremity. Moll Purley started from her seat. The sound that suspended the energies of pursuit roused her's. The old gipsy again approached the window, and looked into the garden. All was silent in that quarter, so recently the scene of so much bustle and confusion. 
               The sudden outcry for assistance, which had aroused her sleeping faculties, was succeeded by a deep and awful silence. Not a whisper could be heard, and the old gipsy, half inclined to believe the rescuing party had retired to the hostel to refresh themselves after their exertions, when another cry for help disturbed her, and in a moment afterwards, the Irish maiden hurried down the alley in a brisk trot, returning immediately, in the direction by which she came, carrying a couple of lanthorns appended unto the pole she had used against her gipsy antagonists with such convincing vigor. 
               Satisfied now that something must have occurred at the further end of the garden, old Moll determined, while the observation of the rescue was taken off, to escape with her sleeping charge by the more open road to Copsewood. Wherefore, raising her lamp, she cautiously opened the door, when Clink, who had been slumbering under the potent flip administered by Mistress Bridget, opened his eyes. 
               Now, when the old gipsy opened the door of the ale-room, Clink's figure was completely shrouded behind it, so that Moll Purley retreated to her room, perfectly satisfied that there was no one below to intercept her, and determined to carry out her design unaided, a determination which had she decided on when the impulse first struck her, she had in all probability succeeded in. Her caution, however, thongh perfectly natural, proved the cause of her subsequent mishap. 
               Ephraim, half awake, was fully roused from his torpor by the appearance of the gipsy's light, and having, after his first sleep, recovered sufficiently to convince himself he was not in bed, and thinking bed the most proper place at such an hour, he arose, shook himself, like another Sampson, and made his way up-stairs. 
               On reaching the stair-head, he encountered old Moll bearing the senseless Susan. Startled by the sudden apparition, the old hammerman rushed upon and seized the gipsy. 
               "Aha! you old hag," cried he, "have I caught you at last?" 
               "Madman," cried Moll Purley, endeavoring to free herself from the grasp of the powerful old man, who only grinned in derision at the weakness of her attempt, encumbered as she was by her sleeping burthen, "do you seek your own destruction, that you dare thus to cross my path!" 
               The old hammerman, however, only laughed at her anger. "I know your tricks, old mother, before to-night," said he. 
                
               Dropping her burden, the old gipsy drew her long clasp-knife, and slashing the hand across with which Clink griped her shoulder, he relinquished his hold, while the gipsy effected her escape. 
               "Help! help! murder!" vociferated the hammerman, and his cries brought old Jeremiah and aunt Margaret into the landing, where they found their neice lying senseless on the floor, her night-clothes stained with blood-apparently her own. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               WHEN the gipsy fled hastily down stairs, after wounding Ephraim, the old hammer-man, hopeless of overtaking the hag, turned towards his young mistress. Guided by the lamp which Moll Purley had placed on a bracket on the stair head, the better to assist her in descending the stairs with her insensible burthen, he approached the cold and prostrate Susan. Hastily stooping, he raised her in his arms, and, seeing her blood-stained dress, deemed that she also was wounded. 
               In this posture he was found, when the cry he uttered for assistance brought Mister Jeremiah Pardo and Mistress Margaret from their several and respective bed-rooms. Now, while Mistress Margaret filled the hostelry with her screams, on seeing, as she supposed, the body of her murdered niece, Jeremiah, perceiving his ancient servant's hand covered with blood, reproachfully accused that honest individual with murder. Alas! his reproach fell upon a tympanum of adamant. Ephraim could neither see nor hear. His senses seemed absorbed in the horrible contemplation before him. Nay, had he possessed the most acute auricular perception, loving his young mistress as he did, it is probable he would have been just as dumbfounded as he felt under the present circumstances. 
               The old hammer-man found his faculties completely absorbed by contemplating the silent and senseless, the beautiful and inanimate object before him; and he leaned over her body very much after the manner in which Adam may be supposed to have leant over his most cherished child. Had she, indeed, been the offspring of his own proper loins, he could not have more sincerely wept over her untimely removal, or deplored her sudden loss. 
               Wherefore, unto all his master's revilings, Ephraim answered nothing-not so much that nature had deprived him of hearing, as because his other senses were so absorbed by the mournful circumstances that had befallen him, as to render him equally unconscious of the wound he had received, and the blood he had lost. Noticing nothing else around him, the ancient hammerman continued to look on the face of Susan as she laid upon his arm, and murmur mournfully- 
               "And is she gone?-is she gone? That is a sad, sad, deed! Who hath done this?" 
               "You, ye villain!" cried Jeremiah Pardo, seizing Ephraim by the shoulder; "none else but you, villain and fool that you are! I little thought what your tricks of sitting up would come to. The poor girl has been walking in her delirlum, and you, you worse than a fool, have stabbed her for a thief, I suppose. You miserable old sinner!" 
               Now Ephraim was too deeply absorbed in his own feelings to notice the rude grasp of his master; he therefore continued as motionless as the pale-faced girl he upheld, looking on her with an air which his master took for composure, which so enraged the latter, that, swinging back his arm with the fierceful gesture which a well-taught farrier assumes when about to send a sullen dray-horse to the right-about, lent the ancient hammerman a box on the ear that made its way through that organ to the interior of the cranium, with such stunning effect, that Ephraim dropped the body he was in the act of upholding. Susan fell heavily to the ground, while her late supporter, turning a dead eye upon his master, stared as if unable to comprehend what it was all about. 
               "What's that for?" questioned he at length, rubbing the part of his head which had so recently been visited by the rude hand of Jeremiah Bardo. 
               "Murder!" shouted Jeremiah, pointing at Susan. 
               "She's very dead," said Ephraim. 
               "Villain! why did you kill her?" 
               "It was Moll Purley as done it," continued Ephraim. 
               "Moll Purley!" echoed Jeremiah; "none of your subterfuge, villain! How came Moll Purley here at such a time?" 
               "I seed her myself!" cried Ephraim. 
               "No lies, sirrah!" said his master. 
               "By the same token she guv me this gash on the hand, when I tried to catch hold of her: and a precious deep 'un it is, too, I can tell you," said the old hammerman. 
               Now, although this dialogue came off as glibly as if old Ephraim had heard and responded every word uttered by his master, the hammerman was entirely unconscious of any syllable addressed unto him. The various pauses he had made in carrying it on had merely arisen out of a difficulty he felt in communicating his ideas. Had his master been entirely silent, the hammerman would have uttered the several sentences in the same order and succession, and narrated each fact as it occurred to him, separately and in as few words as possible. He only used the pause to recal the circumstances to mind. 
               The words of the old hammerman, howbeit, seemed suddenly to have awakened Mistress Margaret unto the danger she had incurred by committing her niece to the tendance of the old gipsey. 
               "Brother, brother!" cried Mistress Margaret, perceiving that Jeremiah had again elenched his fist for the purpose of visiting the ear of the hammerman, "do not harm poor Clink! It may indeed be as he says-it may, indeed, brother." 
               "What!" cried Jeremiah Pardo, in a passion, "are you, too, going to take the part of that villanous old murderer?" 
               "I would not, if I did not know what he says may be true," asservated the maiden lady. 
               "You want to protect your favorite, do you?" cried the irate Jeremiah ah, "don't think I'm fool enough to believe you. How should Moll Purley be here at such an hour?" 
               "Brother, brother! I dare not tell you." 
               "Am I to be made a fool amongst you?" cried the wrathful Pardo. 
               "It is so-it is so indeed," apostrophised Ephraim, looking on the body of Susan. 
               "It is so, you cuckoo!" exclaimed his irate master, lending the hammerman another box on the ear, and with such vigor and heartiness that his brain shook like jelly in a bag. 
               "Murder!" shouted Ephraim at the top of his voice. "Murder! do you want to kill me as well as Mistress Susan?" 
               "I!-kill Mistress Susan!" 
               "Brother, brother!" interposed the maiden lady, "do not harm poor Ephraim, for I know he tells the truth, and that Mother Purley was here at the time he mentioned." 
               "What, then," cried Jeremiah, turning his resentment on his sister, "you have been inquiring your turn for a husband, I suppose; and had her here to tell the color of his hair or the first letter of his name-ugh! you're a nice young lady to be thinking of such a thing. I'm ashamed of you." 
               "She has been engaged here," said Mistress Margaret, blushing and bridling at her brother's grossness-"she has been engaged here as a nurse, sir-privately engaged to wait on our neice." 
               "The devil she has!" 
               "'Tis so, I assure you," 
               "What, so long in the hostel, and I none the wiser," cried Jeremiah, impatiently; "well, after that, I'll-are you shure there's nothing missing expect her stinking old carcase?" 
               "You'll find everything safe, brother." 
               "And she was here for more than a week?" 
               "She was, I assure you." 
               "Well, then, I wonder, for my own part, that she hasn't committed robbery as well as murder. Are all the spoons safe? Oh, you deceitful old fool, to keep such a secret!" 
               "Brother, forgive me, but I was bewitched!" cried Mistress Margaret: "she told me her dream about Doctor Cullsimple being on the point of killing poor Susan." 
               "Ha! I see it all now." 
               "She said it was written down in the book of fate, and Bridget and I were silly enough to believe her." 
               "I wish Bridget and you had been at the devil," said Jeremiah Pardo devoutly; "Lord knows what trouble you have got us all into. There'll be an inquest, I suppose, and a verdict of wilful murder, or felo de se, or something worse, with their curst jaw-breaking latincumtattleum words. But I suppose we must get the poor girl upon her bed again; look where she is hurt, and if she aint dead, see what can be done for her. Ugh! you old fool!" 
               With these words, Jeremiah Pardo, motioning Clink towards him, they raised the body between them, and conveyed it into the bed-room. Whereupon, laying it on the bed, Mistress Margaret proceeded to open the bosom of Susan's night-dress, which was completely saturated with blood, and began to search for the wound which had occasioned so horrible an effusion; while the trusty Ephraim released from more immediate attendance on his young mistress, took some rope-yarn out of his pocket, and bound the edges of his own wound together, with as much sang froid as if he had been attending a horse, a cow, or a donkey. Indeed, being used to fleam practice, the old hammerman cared very little about any other. 
               Having staunched his wound, Ephraim stood aside, to wait the event of Mistress Margaret's search; who, indeed, searched, and searched, and searched again, looking on every side without being able to discover any thing bearing the most remote semblance unto a wound on her neice. Had she searched, indeed, until doomsday, there is little probability she could have discovered a matter that was not; and she was just about giving over her pursuit, as a more plagueful than profitable speculation, when, examining her neice's bosom, her hand for an instant rested on the region of her heart, which had just then begun to labor with that increased energy which usually precedes a recovery from the effects of any sedative poison, and she exclaimed- 
               "Brother, brother! she still lives!" 
               "Lives!" echoed Jeremiah Pardo, with a look of exultation, duly responded unto by the old hammerman, who, though deprived of the sense of hearing could perceive and respond his master's joy. 
               "Yes! her heart beats." 
               "Search out and staunch her wound then," commanded the master of the hostel. "Clink shall instantly ride over to Canterbury, and bring Cullsimple. We may yet chance to recover our poor girl." 
               "Wound, brother!" cried Mistress Margaret in amazement; "notwithstanding the effusion of blood, I have searched everywhere, and cannot find the least appearance of one." 
               "You are mad, or blind, or both," said Jeremiah, who usually paid no great deference to the opinion of Mistress Margaret, or, indeed, of anybody else; "so much blood could never come without a wound." 
               "May it not have flowed from Clink's hand?" questioned Mistress Margaret in a meek tone. 
               "Clink,s hand-impossible!" observed the obstinate Jeremiah; "the old fool has not so much blood in his whole body." 
               "But you heard him say," continued Mistress Margaret, "that old Moll Purley-and I know she was here-gashed it with her knife when he attempted to seize her." 
               "I did'nt heed what the old fool said, I was so concerned about Susan," cried Jeremiah, running up to Ephraim and seizing his wounded paw, which, when he discovered the source of the blood that bad so alarmed him, he pressed with such emphatic satisfaction, as made the ancient hammerman bellow like a bull of Bashan, and dance like a bear of Birmingham. "Never mind the box of the ear I gave you-you shall swim in grog to-morrow, to make up for't. Yes! and we'll have the hue-and-cry raised for the old witch to-morrow. Though," continued he, after a pause suggested by prudence, "for the matter of that, since the girl's safe, the old witch may even trudge whither she will; since, truth to say, she knows too many of our secrets to be offended with impunity." 
               "Don't talk to me of letting her trudge whither she will," exclaimed Mistress Margaret, in a high state of irritation, "I'll have her hanged, I will, had she fifty necks, brother." 
               "Sister Margaret, sister Margaret! do not make thyself such a fool," said the landlord of the hostel; "don't think that I should have the least objection to let her end her career on the gibbet, if our whole party were not too deeply in her power. She knows Tom Welling, Watch, and myself-knows our pursuits, and can, at will, betray us; so that it behooves us to be cautious, lest, in the pursuit of our vengeance, we involve ourselves and friends in one common ruin" 
               "Are we," cried Mistress Margaret, in heat, "are we to be exposed in this way to the attacks of such an outcast vagabond, as if there were no law in the land!" 
               "Sister, sister!" said the prudent Mister Jeremiah, "we have been living so long as if there was no law in the land, that the wisest course would be, perhaps, to abstain from asking the question." 
               "I am resolved on having justice," said aunt Margaret, determined on pursuing her own course. 
               "So am I, sister, at any expense short of my ruin," said Jeremiah. "He who would seek justice at a higher price than his own safety methinks, is only cutting off his nose to be avenged of his face. You had better think a little more and say a little less on the subject. Leave the old woman to the punishment of her own conscience." 
               "Her conscience!" cried Mistress Margaret; "who ever heard tell of such a thing?" 
               "Why, with gypsies, as with smuggiers, I confess it is an uncommon matter," said Mister Jeremiah. "But rest content. We are too much in her power to be saucy." 
               Thus assured that his neice was not only safe but unwounded, Jeremiah motioned Clink out of the room-a species of dumb-show by which he usually made the dunny hammerman understand him; while Ephraim, dismissed, slunk like a dog out of Mistress Susan's chamber, to seek his own. Every step he took he wondered what all he had seen meant, or what the rapid and agitated movement of the features of the brother and sister, usually so placid, portended. In fine, the hammerman was as totally unconscious of the cause of all he had seen, as geologists usually are of the accretive power resident in a stone, or the most learned professor of any class of conjectural philosophy, of the origin of fungii, their own origin, or that of anything else in the creation. 
               Mistress Bridget, who, during this confabulation at the inn, had been felicitating herself in that she had subdued her desires and sacrificed the honor of being beloved by a sheriff unto a sense of her own, now marched towards the hostel at the head of her victorious troop, filled with her own glory. She trod the garden with a majestic step which could only have arisen from the more than feminine virtue that animated her bosom. Her eyes beamed with a light which might have served to grace the hero of a Roman ovation. She fairly shorted under an acute perception of her own merits. Is it wonderful, then, that Hogsflesh, as she leaned upon his arm, should have experienced a feeling of elation, or that even Hobbs himself became affected! 
               She looked upon the captive little sheriff with that feeling of magnanimity which ever animates the truly brave. She looked on him and determined, for the love she bore unto her own Hogsflesh, to snatch his master from the infamy so justly due unto his merit. In this she recognized a proud superiority to personal vengeance. 
               Notwithstanding the sheriff had been actually opposed to her in the late affray-notwithstanding he had, like unto one blindly bent on mischief, provoked her ire by the awkward flourish of his cudgel, with a proud consciousness of superiority, she overlooked her personal indignity, proving thereby she possessed within her breast the nobler attributes of forgiveness, and was as merciful as she was stout-hearted. 
                     "She looked, and virtue triumphed in her eyes."
                   Hogsfle'h could no longer control his emotion-he pressed her arm, and the maiden felt that serene plentitude of joy which amplifies the bosom of such as fervently love, until there is no more room left for rapture. She understood the pressure. 
               "Arrah, now, darlint," said she unto her lover, "fhot'ill I do to save the masther from detection; for he can't r'ach home in dthis fhay widout bein' found out." 
               "I'll speak to Mr. Hobbs," returned Obadiah. 
               "Do darlint!" cried the Irish maiden "Sure it's I dthat wish not ti be revingeful, aldthough he doesn't desarve sich marcy at the hands av aither av us." 
               Thus deputed these two worthies stepped aside to hold a conference on the best means of keeping of all knowledge of the ridiculous position occupied by the sheriff from the countrymen, their companions; for, argued these trusty servants, should these fellows once get an inkling of the fact, they would, no doubt, narrate it in the stable, whence it would get among the house-servants at Muddlepuzzle Hall, through whom it would reach the kitchen, whence it might be communicated to the lady's-maid, and thence, by the circuitoas route through which such matters usually travel, eventually reach the ears of their lady mistress; who might, perchance, be tempted to make some inquiry into a circumstance so unusual; all which, they thought, had better be prevented for the sake of peace and quiet. 
               As good servants, Hogsflesh and Hobbs were naturally desirous to keep a knowledge that might, at some future time, give them an importance portance in the eyes of their master, as closely confined to themselves as possible, nay, if such a thing had been practicable, each would have excluded the other from a confidence they were determined should extend no further. 
               Many were the schemes advanced and rejected in the diplomatic conference held by the two deputies, for getting rid of the countrymen, whose garrulity they feared. The most notable plans were thought on, discussed, and abandoned. They were perplexed, in short, beyond any mortal measure of perplexity. Both agreed that to rid themselves of the countrymen amounted to a sacred matter of necessity. The difficulty of so doing, without creating a suspicion in their minds, that might set them prying until they discerned what the parties to the conference were most solicitous to conceal, was a circumstance not be hazarded. 
               It was at length concluded that, to avoid suspicion, Hogsflesh should in his capacity of constable, bind the sheriff's hands, and placing him before him on his horse, proceed with him, as if he was carrying him in custody, unto the cage, while Oliver Hobbs made the best of his way back unto Muddlepuzzle Hall with the countrymen-a course of proceeding by which both Obadiah and himself might be able to prevent the noise which the sheriff's adventure would otherwise make in the country. 
               Having come to a conclusion on the policy to be pursued, the two deputies, breaking up their conference, returned unto the spot where Mistress Bridget stood waiting their determination, in hold relief against the effulgent brightness of the moon. 
               Few as were the moments wasted by his trusty servants in their conference, the horrors of suspense and apprehension made the time appear an age unto the anxious and laboring breast of the little sheriff. Nor was his alarm allayed when he stole a look at the firm and brawny figure of Mistress Bridget, where she stood, relaxing her ponderous strength on the pole she had so vigorously upborne in battle. Her eyes were bent on him, and her figure seemed endued with more than mortal strength. The sheriff gazed upon her bare and brawny arms as if doubting whether they could belong to one of the gentle opposites of man to whom poets apply the description of the softer sex. Guess, then, with what deep emotion he saw his men advance to the arbitress of his destiny. 
               "Arrah, now! fhot call had ye's ti be talkin all dthis time, and the cowld night air blowin' as if it 'ud cut one in two?" asked Mistress Bridget, as Obadiah and his companion approached her. 
               "Don't be angry, Missus Bridget," pleaded her lover in a low tone of voice, "don't be angry; but it was highly important to keep the knowledge of whom we have a prisoner from the prying curiosity of the country-fellows, who, perhaps, might give themselves too great a liberty if they guessed at his real quality." 
               "That's hall, hi assure you," said Mister Hobbs. 
               "And a very little all ti' be makin' sich a fuss about," cried the Irish-woman, with a sneer; "so you're ti be talkin' like dthat, and I'm ti be catchin' my death av cowld in dth' manetime. Sure, ye's might have had a little more thought of my sex and condition; but you thrate me all as one as if it was a man I was." 
               "I ask your pardon, with most humble submission, Missus Bridget," said Mister Obadiah. 
               "Sure fhot's dthat but losin' more time, fhen dthere's time enough lost already, in all conshins?" said Mistress Bridget. "I thought ye's know'd betther to be wastin' time in dthat way.' 
               "Then what har' we to do!" asked Mister Oliver. 
               "Jist tell me fhot ye's have determin'd an, an' I'll let ye's know, I'll engage," observed Mistress Bridget: "for it's small hopes I have av the pair of ye's." 
               Oliver Hobbs then recounted unto the Irish maiden, with the greatest minuteness and precision, all that had passed betwixt Hogsflesh and himself in the conference; stating, with the greatest nicety, the project of Obadiah, together with his own counter-project; and going over the various arguments by which their several propositions were maintained on either side of the sine qua non of their masters incognito being preserved, on which he had insisted and the ultimatum finally agreed unto by the conferees; to all which Mistress Bridget listened with a degree of patient attention, that might have dignified a higher station, till Oliver had ceased to speak; when the Irish maiden, thinking herself called on to have her say on the occasion, looked steadily into Oliver's face, while she asked the following question:- 
               "Arrah, now, honey! fhot does all this mane?" 
               Oliver was dumbfounded-he felt himself choking under the conviction that his action, energy, emphasis, and eloquence, had all been thrown away on a person who could not properly appreciate them; and he silently turned on his heel with a lofty look of contempt, leaving Obadiah to answer the maiden's further question:- 
               "He means," said the latter individual, taking his cue to speak from Oliver's evident dissatisfaction-"it means as I am to take the sheriff to the cage, acause I'm the constable." 
               "Divil ha' me!" said Mistress Bridget, half inclined to laugh at the wisdom of their plan, "divel ha' me! if I see anything in dthat course to prevent the masther's bein' found out in his caterwaulin' thricks. To take a man to dthe cage to prevent exposin' him!-I never heard the like before. Honey, that'll never do." 
               "Yes hit will, hif you'll hon'y 'ear 'im hout," interposed Mr. Hobbs, with his usual emphasis; "hi say the plan hunquestionably his a good plan, han well hadapted." 
               "And I say, to take a man to the cage isn't the best manes av makin' the world believe he hasn't been doin' nothin'," said Mistress Bridget, maintaining the converse of Hobbs' proposition. 
               "Why, lauk, Missus Bridget," observed her lover, taking advantage of her pause, "if I said I was goin' to take him to the cage, I didn't say as I was a goin' to leave him there." 
               "That's another thing," said Mistress Bridget. 
               "That's the thing, Missus Bridget," returned Obadiah; "heaven forbid I should have sich a crime on my conscience as putting the sheriff of the county into the cage. They couldn't do wusser among cannibals." 
               "It wou'dn't be more than he desarves," said Mistress Bridget quickly, "for prowling about in dthe night-time, takin' away hanest people's ca-rac-ters; not as I'd wish to visit him wid any degree av resintment now, seein' as I forgiv' him by raison av dthe interest he tuck in seein' me righted whin that one-eyed vilyain av a souldier fhonted to take advantage av my wakeness. But fhot are ye's to do wid these?" concluded she, pointing to the countrymen, who stood at a respectful distance. 
               "Mr. Hobbs," quoth Obadiah, with a simper that made him look more knowing than ever, "Mr. Hobbs will take them with him unto Muddle-puzzle Hall, leavin' master in my custody, when, instead of takin' him on to the cage, I can leave him at an inn on the roadside, and return in the morning with wholesome and christian-like clothing, such as he may decently appear in, tho'f, for his attempt on you Missus Bridget, he hardly deserves as much at my hands." 
               "There's some gumption about that," said Mistress Bridget, "and though he doesn't desarve much at aither av our hands, it 'ud be on'y charity in us to give him decent clothin', for at present it's no little annoyance for any wholesome body to be near unto him. You had better, therefore, set about it immajitly." 
               Having thus fixed upon a final course of operations, Mistress Bridget, raising the paling she carried, with the action of an Indian chief about to dance a war-dance, beckoned the sheriff to approach her which he did with no small degree of trepidation in his manner. Sensible of his present forlorn and abject position, as well as of the power she seemed to exercise over his own servants, he did not know what abject and absurd conditions she might impose upon him, or what she might demand as the price of her forbearance. He could plainly perceive that, so far as the service of his men was concerned she bore a greater sway with them than he did, and that he must submit. 
               Walking, therefore, up to his Amazon conqueror, he bent his head in token that he submitted entirely unto the control she had acquired over him in the present posture of his affairs, and patiently awaited her fiat: while Master Oliver and Mister Hogsflesh looked upon the scene, secretly marvelling their master, heretofore so high and lofty in his way, had become so chapfallen and abject in the presence of an Irish serving girl. 
               "Bad manners to him, fhot is it ails him?" mumbled Mistress Bridget between her teeth. "I hope it is not wantin' to come over me he is. Troth 'an if he does, I'll let him see how sthrong I am in my vartue. Arrah, fhot does he mane by all that bowin', an' scrapin', an' facemakin', I wondher. 
               "I wished not to offend yon, but how am I to act?" said the sheriff. 
               "How are you to act!" repeated the Irishwoman, looking a thousand dignities; while the sheriff, conscious of his position, seemed as if he were not able to help himself: "who would ax ye to act wid a figure like that." 
                
               "What would you have me do then?" questioned the sheriff in a qualling tone. 
               "Fhy, muffle up your ugly face, an' concale your blushes from the eyes of the counthry people; mount behind Hogsflesh, and niver let me see you again. Troth, I'm ashamed av ye." 
               Right glad to escape the Amazon so easily, the sheriff obeyed her to the very letter, and bustled out of the garden, followed by the whole party, emerging, unfortunately, at the moment Moll Purley, quitting the hostel, made across the area in front of it, on her road to Copsewood Dell. 
               "'Tis she! 'tis Moll Purley!" cried Bridget, at the very topmost note of her voice. "Maybe she has set fire to dthe house, an' run away by dthe light av it. Pursue her instantly-pursue her instantly, I say. I wou'dn't wondher if she hasn't committed a robbery." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE boat conveying Captain Trunnion and Josiah Smallwood on board Jorgan Janson's schooner, had already reached her side, when the last-named personage, actuated by true nautical politeness, stood already amidships to receive the government officers, according to prescribed rule. Jorgan doffed his sea-cap in due recognition of the worthy representative of majesty: whereupon the latter raised his cocked-hat, holding it nearly perpendicular in solemn return unto the schooner skipper's salutation, and stepped on board with a freedom of movement which could only have arisen from a consciousness of authority. Following the master and commander, came Josiah Smallwood, on whose testimony alone Captain Trunnion could hope to detect Will Watch, so as to bring him unto justice, and in part wipe out the stain which the venturous darings and various escapes of the latter individual had cast upon his own character, and that of the revenue service in general. 
               These salutations duly exchanged, in the courtesies of the seas, which, how ridiculous soever unto a landsman, have their due influence in maintaining a disciplined authority, without which nothing could be effected on ship-board, Jorgan added, in his broken English, while sundry on board, who had been engaged in the previous night's affray, felt their blood chill with apprehension, from a recollection of the mischief they had done, and the danger they had subsequently incurred. 
               "Donder, mynheer! vor vat is to be ascribed dis honeur?" 
               "We come to search your vessel for suspected characters." 
               "Ter tuyfel!-vat!" cried the skipper, assuming a look of astonishment, while he willfully mistook the captain's meaning-"you com' here to search for sospect caracteres?" 
               "Yes!" 
               "Den ve're all sospect caracteres aboard," returned Jorgan with a grin; "ve trade in a sospectible vay, don't ve? Ve dont teal in noting bot bottere atwix' dis an' Holland, mynheer. Dere ar' mine paperes, an' te schoon' is at your service, so long as you keep a civil tong in your 'ead. De firkins are all markt an' nombred: and, ter tuyfull notin' can be done more sospectible dan dat, if ve vere all te king's subject." 
               "I must have your hands turned up," pursued Captain Trunnion. 
               "Mine Got!" observed Jorgan, "it is enoff to make a pody torn up his eyes an' han's into te pargain: I nefere vas so surprise-to interrup' piscable peepl' in tis way. Tont ve trade in lawful tealings?" 
               "I am willing to believe so," said the master aud commander. 
               "Ter tuyfel, now! on'y look a' dat," exclaimed tbe Dutch skipper, in an accent of surprise: "if you are villing to pelieve so, vy do you give us all dis trobble?" 
               "Put an end to this jesting, master skipper," observed Captain Trunnion, with a stern regard, "it is ill-timed and ridiculous. Instantly turn up the crew and let me overhaul them, or I am armed with authority to compel obedience. I have reason to think I know this vessel, and that she did not always sail under her present colors, nor was employed in so legitimate a trade as she appears engaged in." 
               "Mine Got! vot toes tat mean?" 
               "That she was engaged extensively in contraband dealings," replied the master and commander, with a calm assurance; "and carried gear as black as the trade she drove." 
               "Let her pe as black as ter tuyfel himself!" cried the skipper, with well-affected indignation; "dat is no affaire of mine. I teal in bottere, an notin' else. I'm an honest man." 
               "If you be an honest and fair trader, and I see nothing to occasion me to doubt your statement," said Trunnion, "there can be no reason against turning up your crew." 
               "Non' in te vorl'" said the skipper. 
               "Then turn them up immediately." 
               "Pass te vort for te men to be mustarded," cried Jorgan. 
               And the word was passed accordingly. 
               During the short period occupied in this conversation, Boltrope and his two companions in the conflict of the preceding night, were safely stowed away below. 
               They were, in fact, installed in a new office on ship-board, and appointed, not super, but infracargo-a situation which imposed on them the necessity of stretching themselves beneath the butter firkins, and enduring all the horrors of a death from suffocation, without daring to murmur at their conditions. 
               During the inspection that followed the safe stowage of the guilty smugglers, two things happened, which, formerly, told better for the confederated contrabandists than the more legitimate people engaged in hunting them up. The one was, that Delaware Dick, as the reader will, no doubt, recollect, had been sent abaft by the cut he received at the hands of Lieutenant Rowcraft, before Josiah Smallwood got over the schooner's bows, and so escaped the observation of that quick-sighted individual; the other, that the negro had not accompanied Boltrope in the first boat on the previous night. In either case, his sable countenance tenance, gigantic stature, and singularly-marked appearance, in every respect had unquestionably betrayed himself and his companions. 
               Agreeably to the skipper's desire, the crew of the schooner were all assembled in the waist, where Captain Trunnion desired they should remain: and at the same time placed a guard fore and aft, to prevent any of them quitting the deck. He now commanded Josiah Smallwood to take a man below with him, in order to ascertain whether there were any of the crew skulking between decks, to avoid the inspection he had desired to be taken. 
               Thus commissioned, Smallwood performed his duty with all diligence, hunting on all sides with the eyes of one experienced in similar affairs. He and his companions passed and repassed repeatedly the very spot where, stretched beneath the firkins, the old steersman and his companions were concealed. Even turning a tarpaulin over, that had been thrown down so as to prevent any accidental ray of light betraying the lurking objects of their search through the interstices occasioned by the form of the tubs. Indeed, overhauling everything, nay, looking into the most improbable places, till, wearied by their fruitless endeavors, they ascended to report unto their captain there was no other being on board save those who had been turned up on the deck. 
               The misery of Boltrope and his companions in misfortune, during the strict search below by Josiah Smallwood and his brother preventive, may readily be conceived. The more particularly as Josiah, while thus engaged, spoke to his shipmate of certain marks he had observed on board the schooner, which assured him, notwithstanding her altered appearance, she was the identical craft he had so unceremoniously quitted, when he thought that he and his brother seamen were likely to derive more pain than pleasure by remaining on board. Nor did the old steersman dare to draw a breath or move a limb lest he should hazard a discovery. For he could not doubt, from the accurate manner his own person and conduct, in the skirmish of the previous night, had been described, that, should Smallwood find out his hiding-place, such a discovery would go far to help him to an arraignment in the Admiralty Court, and a death at Execution Dock. 
               The desistance of Smallwood, however, from all further search below, eased the old steersman of his present apprehensions, and he found himself growing more and more comfortable at every receding step of the two preventives, until the silence that reigned around convinced him that the revenue men had left him; though, as yet, he dared not quit the place of his concealment. Wherefore, leaving him in all the agonies of suspense and apprehension, we will accompany Smallwood into the duck. 
               On receiving the report of Josiah Smallwood, Captain Trunnion desired the schooner's crew severally to pass in review before him. He inspected them singly, referring to Josiah to ascertain whether he knew aught of them, or had ever seen them before: while the men who passed under his inspection, unaccustomed to be treated in like manner, found no little difficulty in restraining their temper within the bound of moderation: and, notwithstanding the danger to which any ill-timed manifestation of petulance might expose themselves and their companions, felt it full hard to be compelled to submit to such an indignity. 
               Accordingly, each, as he passed the master and commander, exhibited, by a sullen and dogged obedience, unto commands against which there was no possible resistance, his sense of the degradation to which he had been exposed, and fairly divided the old proverb among them, by showing their teeth although they were denied to use them. 
               When it came to Delaware Dick's turn, and the gigantic black stood before Captain Trunnion, the negro's herculean proportions at once caught and riveted his attention. Insomuch, that, chained by a feeling of surprise, the master and commander stood for a moment looking on him in silence, surveying a figure that exhibited a combination of strength and power of endurance rarely met with, even amongst men inurred unto the hardships and vicissitudes of a seamen's life. 
               "Bell, massa! Bot 'ou look at? Hop 'ou'll know be 'gin," said the sable seamen, with no small show of resentment in his manner, and then, turning to Smallwood, continued, "apose am non' ob 'our acquaint. Apose dat quit' preely. 'Ou neber sin me afore, dar' say dat. Dis is fus' time he met. 'Ou no tink dat?" 
               "Did you ever see this man before, Smallwood?" asked Captain Trunnion; while Delaware Dick grinned with a derisive expression, at the man who had escaped his pistol the preceding night, answered- 
               "I never remember to have met him, your honor." 
               "Am pree to say dat dere, caus' a know it," proceeded Delaware Dick, inwardly chuckling at Smallwood's recollection; "or ip 'ou hab sin me, it mos' ha' bin ober dere in 'merica, ben a bor berry lilly piccaninny-berry lilly piccaninny, indeed! Am grow'd out ob all knowledge since den. A bos a lily piccaninny bonce do." 
               While the negro addressed himself to Josiah Smallwood, Captain Trunnion continued to stare at him, as if unable to control the admiration he felt for the bold and careless confidence of tone he assumed, a confidence so opposite unto the nature of the sable race in general, which, indeed, inclines them into cowardice and treachery. 
               "You are a strong fellow," said the master and commander, at length: "and seem to be as bold as you are strong." 
               "Bould any two-de bas' men aboard 'our cutt'r-like to try me?" asked the negro, contracting his bare arms, till his clenched knuckles contacted with his breast, and then thrusting them from him to their fullest extension. "Look a' dis! Apose dis here a'd beat de bas' two, an' neber run abay from t'ree, ip dat all 'ou barnt bid me." 
               "I think, my man," observed Captain Trunnion, when the man of color had ceased his exhibition of muscular action, "I think you might do something better for yourself than schoonering from the Texel to the Thames with cargoes of Dutch cheese and Flemish butter, for the consumption of the great metropolis. I think you might." 
               "A tink so too, massa!" returned the negro. 
               "Well, that's a spirited answer," said the British officer. "I suppose you are capable of an able seamen's duty; so, if you'll join my cutter, you shan't want my assistance to push you forward." 
                
               The negro smiled and nodded. 
               "Tank 'ou, sar," said he. 
               "You'll take my offer, then." 
               "No, massa, not jis' yat!" 
               "Why, then, thank me?" 
               "Jis' for nothin', as the sayin' is," said the black, grinning in Trunnion's face. "No, no, massa; no catchee de negro, no hab de slabe. Me pree an' indep'ndant now, an' a jis tink a carn' do batter den keep so." 
               "Don't be insolent, fellow!" 
               "Dere, no ins'lence in sayin' dat, a take it; so don't put 'ouselp in a circumflunction about not'ing ob de kine, massa. 'Ou know, as bell as I know, be are pree to take sarbice or lebe it now, in dese piscable times; so a say I rader pree dan sarb. Ben de debble ride de cat, massa, him sure to burn her tail app. So kip 'ou br'ath to cool 'ou porridge with." 
               And, to the irrepressible disgust of Josiah Smallwood, who carried his reverence and deuotion unto such as wore epaulettes to the verge of idolatry, the negro turned upon his heel. Smallwood looked on the black, as if he could have eaten him with a single grain of salt, in revenge for the indignity he had cast upon the service. The black, however, left the master and commander to digest the venom of his spleen; who, in turn, being a good-tempered man, after a moment's censideration, forgave the banter of the negro, in consideration of the humor that accompanied it, and which, operating as a zest, rendered it more palatable: when Trunnion and his companions, having ransacked the schooner, and found nothing, prepared to return to their vessel, filled with chagrin. Trunnion, indeed, half inclined to believe that Smallwood's whole report about the black schooner's captain was mere fabrication. 
               Previously, however, to the preventive boat's crew quitting her deck, the skipper of the schooner approached Captain Trunnion, and, with a great abundance of bows and cringes, every one of which the latter felt was satirically levelled against himself, and was, therefore, little inclined to receive with complacency, inquired, with the utmost suavity, if he were perfectly satisfied! 
               Captain Trunnion eyed his interrogator as a shy horse is wont to regard the approach of its rider, instinctively starting at the bland tone assumed by the Dutchman, and mentally setting him down as a much greater rogue in reality than he had any capability of proving at present, whatever might eventually come to light. He answered, nevertheless- 
               "Perfectly so, sir-perfectly so?" 
               "Den you tid not fin' any mackits in te cheeses town pelow?" 
               Deeply mortified by the skipper's irony on his own want of success, after having taken the trouble to chase the schooner, and bring her too, Captain Trunnion sprang over her side, and in an instant afterwards was seated in his boat, a prey to an inward vexation, not a little increased by the skipper's calling out to him, as his boat's head was turned towards the revenue cutter. 
                
               "Goot bye, mine friend; you'll gif us notice te next time you come, dat we may make preparations for te honeur." 
               "Adieu, adieu!" said the mnster and commander, "My life on't, this will not be the last interview we shall have together;" and, throwing himself back in the boat, he folded his arms and gave way to his reflection. 
               Like Josiah Smallwood, the master and commander, from sundry observations he had made on board the schooner-such as her breadth of beam, distance betwixt the main and foremast, style of rigging, &c., was not without considerable misgiving that she was the vessel he had seen in Ramsgate Harbour, in the avowed ownership of William Watch, and which Josiah Smallwood had truly alleged to have caused the destruction of Rowcraft, his cutter, and his crew. Her whole appearance, however, had been so changed, that the utmost he could arrive at was suspicion. 
               Satisfied of this, he mentally determined immediately to report the schooner as a suspected craft, notwithstanding her apparently legitimate traffic in cheese and butter, so that all officers connected with the revenue might have an eye on her. And, released from further interruption, she shook out her canvass and made way, with all speed, towards the London market. 
               Vexed, beyond all measure, by the untoward events of the past night, as well as the want of success that had attended the adventures of the morning, Captain Trunnion, looked in his own thoughts, preserved a moody silence until his boat had arrived alongside the Wasp; when, hastily mounting her side, he saluted the officer on deck and betook himself to the cabin, to reflect upon the best mode of wiping out the disgrace cast on the whole service by the superior vigilance and skill of the contrabandists. Nor did he seek any communication till after the lapse of some hours, when he summoned Josiah Smallwood to attend him in his cabin. 
               "Your honor!" said the honest seaman, entering the cabin. 
               "Oh! 'tis you, Smallwood, is it?" 
               "Yes, your honor!" 
               "You remember the black schooner?" 
               "Something of her, your honor." 
               "Have you seen anything on board the craft of that Dutch skipper, that reminds you of her?-tell the truth, sir! I have my own suspicions. I wish you to ascertain how far they may tally with the impressions made en your mind." 
               "Why, your honor, when I cut away the lashings of the bow gun, along with Lieutenant Rowcraft, I perceived, deeply carved on a knee timber, an S, a star, and a crown; and I'll swear I saw the self-same letter and characters on the self-same timber to-day." 
               "Why not mention this before?" 
               "At least your honor, it merely amounts to suspicion, and I have had such a run of ill-luck lately, that I felt afraid lest I should not be believed," returned Josiah. 
               "Did you notice anything else!" 
                
               "Nothing particular, your honor." 
               "The breadth of her beam?" 
               "The whole of her proportions very like, your honor." 
               "As far as you can guess?" 
               "As far as I can guess, your honor." 
               "That will do; you can leave the cabin now." 
               Thus dismissed, Josiah Smallwood again ascended to the deck to wait for further orders; while Captain Taunnion committed unto paper the additional circumstances narrated unto him; and which, it must certainly be confessed, had a tendency to thicken the suspicions he already entertained as to the character of the schooner. The want, however, of a sufficient identification between the skipper of the schooner, and the daring smuggler who commanded it against Rowcraft, and whom Josiah Smallwood had solemnly averred to have been present in the late affray, still involved the matter in considerable doubt, and had a tendency to perplex, if not prevent, anything like a certainty of conclusion. 
               Viewing the question in all its bearings, it presented nothing but embarrassment and difficulty; nor did the prospect of the ridicule likely to be cast on this additional proof of the inefficacy of the preventive service, render the reflections of Captain Trunnion a whit more agreeable. For his own part, though he felt inwardly assured of the identity betwixt the Betsy and the Witch, the papers furnished by the Dutch skipper, as well as the proof that, what trade soever she might heretofore have carried on, she was at present engaged in a legitimate traffic, had deprived him of the power of detection. He was, therefore, reluctantly obliged to let her proceed on her way to the port of London. 
               The solemn asseveration of Smallwood to having seen the commander of the contrabandist in the previous night's affray, as well as the carving he had observed on the schooner's timber, favored the assumption that she was the identical vessel about the capture of which he was so anxious. His own observation of the general build and rig of the craft, which he had seen while she lay snug in Ramsgate harbour, tallied with the impression of Smallwood; and in what manner soever the contrabandists had contrived to spirit him away, Trunnion had little doubt the murderer of Lieutenant Rowcraft and his crew was still concealed upon the coost. He, therefore, determined not to relax his vigilance, but to lay every snare and use all the means in his power to apprehend and bring him unto justice. 
               The master and commander little knew the extensive combination that existed on the coast-extensive enough, indeed to set all his efforts at defiance; and cemented by a principle powerful beyond the regulations of the more legitimate service to which he was attached, namely, a sense of common danger and the necessity of mutual safety. Neither was anything likely to break their combination, except feud or division amongst the smugglers themselves-a circumstance hardly to be calculated on; while their extensive profits rendered it their interest to hold unto each other, rather than betray the confederacy into the hands of government. 
               Their individual profits were, in fact, so great, that no reward in the power of government to bestow, could be considered an equivalent to what they must necessarily lose by infamously betraying the brotherhood. Added to this, there existed also a consciousness in the mind of every separate member of their fraternity, that while one party alone or two at most, could be denounced to the revenue people, a hundred would be aroused into personal hostility against the traitor. And this consciousness, without any violent stretch of probability, might be considered sufficient to paralyse the resolution of the boldest of their confederacy, who might otherwise be tempted by a reward. 
               Meanwhile, the schooner presented a glorious sight as she went bounding and joyously along, making the best of a fresh breeze; plunging at one moment, rising at the next like a war-horse which finds his mettle curbed and checked by the hand of a skillful rider; while the foam, eddying from beneath her bows, and dashed aside at every plunge, sparkled as emeralds set in brilliants, as it strove, and struggled, and dallied in the sunbeam. The gallant bark pursued her voyage towards the port of London. 
               Satisfied of being exempt from the further interference of the Wasp, Jorgan Janson released the old steersman and his brothers in bondage from their uncomfortable place of concealment, when they joined their companions in the hearty ridicule they bestowed on the frustrated efforts made by the preventives for their detection and punishment, thereby proving the celebrated aphorism of Rousseau, "That the strongest are still never sufficiently strong to ensure them the continual mastership, unless they find means of transforming force into right and obedience into duty." 
               Loud and boisterous were the contrabandists in congratulating their companions on their escape from the mischievous interference of Trunnion and his preventives. Their elation scarcely acknowledged any bounds. Nor were the thee contrabandists thus snatched, as it were, from the very jaws of death, the least mirthful among the schooner's crew. Delaware Dick was the first to give vent unto the ebullition of his feelings. He seized rudely the paw of Boltrope, which he strained with force almost sufficient to squeeze the blood from beneath his finger-nails, and shook with a friendly energy, that tough as was the hide of the old steersman, brought the tears into his eyes. 
               "Debil ha' be! an' a wish he bay git be into de barg'in, Massa Bolt rope," exclaimed the last-mentioned individual in the out pouring of his heart, "Debil ha' be, hot ab' glad ob 'ou escape! De darnation rebenoos berry nearly gat de bast ob it; and dey did it berry bell-dat a boun' to say. Ou say so too now, eh, Massa Boltrope?" 
               "If you are glad, you needn't pinch my hand so hard, Dick," grumbled the old steersman, wincing under the pressure, and at the same time trying to release his hand from the grasp of the gigantic negro; "cast off, d'ye hear? You have nearly jammed all the fingers into one, and there ain't much friendship in that, to my thinking, Master Dickey." 
                
               "Jabb'd 'ou fingers, Massa Boltrope! Ab glad I hab 'ou fingers to jab," cried the exulting black. "Apose dem dam prebensibs had cocht a hole ob 'ou? dey'd hab jabb'd 'ou nack, an' made 'ou head into a cat-block-a ting ab pree to say bou'd ha'bin berry onpleasan'-berry onpleasan' indeed, to dem as lik' pree mobement." 
               "I begin to wish," said the old steersman, shaking his released hand several times from the wrist, to restore the impeded circulation to its natural flow-"I begin to wish we were safe out of that affair with the king's cutter." 
               "Apose 'ou do!-apose'ou do, Massa Boltrope!" said the negro. 
               "Why, it does begin to look a little narsty," observed Binnacle, joining in the conversation, "howsumdever, as a thing as is done carnt be undone, the better way is to say nothing about the matter." 
               "But the fellow described me so correctly," resumed the steersman, "that I fear detection through the information likely to be forwarded unto London by him; however, if the worst comes to the worst, the most they can do is to hang me." 
               "Never fear him, Master Boltrope," said Binnacle-"never fear him. I marked him while in talk with the captain-I should know him ag'in among fifty; so to prevent mistakes, we must get rid of him by a natural aliby." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "We must get him out of the way." 
               "How?" 
               "Shoot him through the head to be sure! You mean the principal officer who made inspection below?" continued Binnacle. 
               "I do." 
               "I heerd 'em call him Smallwood, so he'll be easy diskivered among the preventives. I dare be sworn he's the on'y one who escaped us: and he sha'n't live long to appear ag'in us. I'll answer." 
               While these matters were occuring on board the cutter and elsewhere, a strong body of preventives remained to watch the inlet, so lately the scene of bloodshed and confusion, though now as silent as the grave itself, save when the receding ocean groaned hollowly as if in shame of being compelled to retire after its former proud advance upon the land. Silently and patiently they kept their vigil: momently did they strain their attention to catch the lightest sound that might announce the return of the smugglers, on whose heads they still imprecated the most direful vengeance for their maimed and murdered associates. The smugglers came not, and the boat remained their prize. 
               The tide had now receded to a considerable distance beyond the debouche of the inlet. The preventives brought materials for the watch-fire, and, chilled by the cold air of morning, lighted it, and sat down to rest their wearied limbs and warm their chilled blood in its cheerful blaze. They posted a sentinel-an unnecessary work, as the smugglers did not intend to interrupt them. The remainder of the guard pieced out the time by telling various tales, arising out of their experience of a nautical life, wherein to do ample justice to their faculty of invention, the probable was often lost in the marvellous and nature outraged in the wonderful. 
               Shortly after the dawn, a cart arrived at the mouth of the inlet to bear the prize they had taken, to be condemned by the authorities appointed by government to watch over and prevent the commission of frauds on the excise. The preventives now became as busy as so many ants on the quarry of some poor bird, each taking its portion, till all but the strong tendons and nature-knitted bones remain. The boat was soon discharged of her cargo. The cart then started, escorted by all the preventive men except two; these remained to bring the boat round the foreland, for the purpose of grounding an information against her owner. 
               "Bill!" said one of these worthies, "now that beggarly old bos'n's mate, who 'ficiated as cap'n of the watch, is gone, we may as well have a taste: I've stowed away one tub for ourselves." 
               "Well, now! I'd ha giv'n anything for a drop an hour agone." 
               "Then here goes!" said the first speaker, boring the tub and insert-in a reed. He took a mighty suck, but instantly began to sputter with evident signs of disgust. "Well, I'm blarmed!" continued he, "if we sha'n't get laughed at all over the country." 
               "What for?" 
               "Why we've seized a cargo of water." 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE ridicule cast on the preventives by the inhabitants of Ramsgate when the last trick played on them became publicly known, stung Trunnion to the quick. He felt mortified beyond the power of endurance. Sensitive in the highest degree to the slightest imputation on his character and conduct as an officer, this fresh proof of the contrabandists' success and perfect impunity of their proceedings stung deeply in his heart. The appearance of a preventive man in the streets became a signal for public derision. A thousand luscious sallies were indulged in at the expense of the revenue people. The contraband water formed a stock joke with the populace, and it required all the master's and commander's influence to abate the ferocity of his men under such exasperating circumstances; to teach them to endure the chafferings of landsmen, at all times viewed as natural enemies by the true blues, and keep their resentful feelings within the bounds prescribed by order and discipline. 
               Trunnion avoided the public eye as much as possible, for neither his rank nor his munificent style of living, although by the latter he distributed a liberal patronage in the neighborhood, could stifle the ridicule excited by the recent failure of the people under his command. Men, whatever their habits, will assert the supremacy of nature whenever they find an opportunity. How loyal soever they may be, while held together by public bonds of association, they at all times exhibit an aptitude to laugh at the misadventures of power, and make a jest of majesty, whenever they have an opportunity to cut off its externals. They could do neither more nor less at a monkey which had lost his tail. The poor devil preventives, therefore, after the recent affair had to pass a life, the tortures of which it would be utterly impossible to describe. 
               The greater part of the tradesmen in the neighborhood, dealt in contraband goods, nay, sold them openly in their shops, in spite of governmental precaution. The watch-dog could not be always on the premises; neither could any provision counteract the disposition of men whose interest it was to cheat the public revenue. The excise service badly paid, was at best but slovenly performed: wherefore the relish with which every discomfiture of the preventives was received by the people around, may be easily conceived. 
               Yet, although deeply mortified by the ridicule publicly cast upon the people he commanded, and the service to which he belonged, Trunnion would not suffer his feelings to get the better of his judgment. He neglected not any means in his power, and set every engine at work to discover the lurking-place of the contraband captain, so solemnly averred by Josiah Smallwood to have led the rescue in the last contest betwixt the smugglers and preventives. Proclamations were distributed throughout the county, twenty miles round, describing Watch's person, and offering a reward for his apprehension. But all in vain. For though hundreds knew, not one was found hardy enough to betray him. Whether, therefore, he owed his personal safety to love or fear, one thing is certain-the contrabandist's leader still escaped pursuit. 
               There was but one source from which the daring smuggler had reason to apprehend treachery or betrayal. It was from the young gipsey, whose passion, burning fierce, intense, concentrated, he had slighted; whose feelings he had nurtured into love, and then blasted by desertion: whose life he had made desolate, whose heart he had made empty. 
               It was not through Frontibelle alone Watch had to seek his condemnation. Her revengefel mother had sworn, by the stars she be lieved in, to work out a destiny for him as dreary as her daughter's. Wherefore, the old beldame, having escaped the pursuit of Hogflesh and his companions, fearing that her recent handiwork at the hostel might expose her to danger, had shifted her quarters from the immediate neighborhood, and taken up others, with part of her gang, on a spot on which she was almost certain to capture her victim. 
               Had the old gipsy-woman been better informed of the private feelings of the venerable Jeremiah on the subject of her recent outrage at the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths, and how he had opposed aunt Margaret's flaming denunciations of legal prosecution, out of the pure feeling of philanthropy that arises from the necessity of self-preservation, the old woman had probably remained quietly within the encampment at Copsewood Dell, without fearing the lawful let or hindrance of the ancient master of the hostel. 
                
               Uncertain, however, on this point, she resolved not to put anything to the hazard; in vulgar parlance, she was determined not to give away a chance. She was seized with a sudden qualm, therefore. She thought that change of air had become necessary to her health. She removed accordingly, though not without reference to her ulterior designs. 
               Deeply studied in all the vanities of the human heart, acquainted with the minutest springs of passion, long experienced in those various little feelings, which being aggregated, form the mass of human happiness or misery, Moll Purley deemed that Watch, on his arrival at Farmer Welling's, would immediately make way into the hostel to consummate his passion with Susan Wylie. The old gipsy, therefore, took the best position the road between Welling's and the hostelry afforded to intercept him. 
               In this place she watched night and day, with the most fervid anxiety, waiting with lynx-like patience until her prey should present himself unto her deadly spring. Her old heart was animated by a fierceness, that, arising out of the disappointments which had hitherto crossed her path and checked her advance, became the more ungovernable in its clamour after vengeance. The old gipsy-woman seemed to live for once object alone-nor did she care a jot for life, so that object was effected. 
               Frontibelle continually reproached her grand-mother's tardiness of policy, to which the young and enthusiastic girl attributed the prospective success of her rival. But painful as such reproaches were, infinitely more endurable than the shame and mortification with which the old gypsy's breast smarted, when she thought of the defeat she had sustained. All her plans had been overthrown, and by circumstances mainly brought about by herself. The very precautions she had taken to prevent discovery had worked against her. 
               Removed from Copsewood Dell, Moll Purley was still actuated by the same desires. Her mind was too intentive to change on the appearance of adverse circumstances. Like the spider, whose filmy web has been destroyed, she instantly set about repairing the injury, and restoring the defaced network. To this end the old woman had already pumped out of Binnacle all the facts connected with the destruction of the government schooner, and these facts she determined to use to her own advantage. 
               Binnacle had acquainted her with this matter under less restriction, because old Moll was generally considered, amongst the contrabandists, as one of the confederacy in all things, save a knowledge of their secret repository. Additionally armed, therefore, with this important information, she doubted not to be able to compel Watch to do justice to Frontibelle, and make her his wife, after the manners and customs of his own people-customs which, though the old woman laughed at, she yet coveted for her grand-child's sake. 
               Carried by her own enthusiastic temperament, and the ardency of her passion for the bold smuggler, beyond the more tender and delicate feelings of her sex and years, the younger gypsy would willingly have sacrificed every obstacle that interposed between her and an imagined goal near which stood happiness waving her onward. She had formed but one strong wish, and had neither the power nor the inclination to form another. 
               These facts may serve as a summary of the events that passed subsequently to the old gypsy's unceremonious quittal of the hostel. The third or fourth day after her removal from Copsewood Dell, however, and the breaking up of the gypsy encampment in that romantic spot, consummated the old gypsy's design, by placing Watch within her toils. 
               On seizing his person, her rage knew no bounds; and notwithstanding the smuggler's usual intrepidity of temper, her threats had power to shake his breast "from the propriety" that usually marked and guided its emotions. His hands mastered, the smuggler was soon disarmed, and, pinioned by lashings at the wrists and elbows, deprived of all power to resist the further will of the gypsy. 
               In this defenceless state, he was sensible that firmness and patience were the most certain cards in playing the desperate game before him. Wherefore, after the first impulse of surprise had subsided, he listened unto the fierce outpourings of the gypsy's wrath in perfect silence. In this he was guided by nature. He deemed, that when the first ebuilition of her rage had worn itself out in unavailing invective, she might be the better and more easily induced to listen unto reason; in other words, become more practicable than her wrathful mood gave indication of at present. Notwithstanding the wrong he had unintentionally inflicted by his dalliance with Frontibelle, he knew that the old woman had loved his daring audacity, from his boyhood upwards, and relied on the infirmities of human passion to work out his safety. 
               The smuggler, howbeit, notwithstanding the stock of knowledge he had gleaned during his intercourse with the world, had yet to learn something in nature of which be knew not the existence before. He had yet to experience a human feeling that acknowledged neither the influence of time nor change. Old Moll Purley, to violence of temper, united an implacability which, having once resolved upon a vengeance, would suffer neither remorse nor pity to interrupt her course in pursuing it. Fierce instinct supplied the energy that fed her wasting lamp of life. Stimulated by the fancied wrongs of her grand-daughter, she had taught herself to live for vengeance only; to find happiness in her eager desire for blood, which is, perhaps, denied unto such as indulge in the milder and more amiable dreams which cheat men into occasional felicity on their journey to the grave. 
               After the first outpouring of her rage, the old woman threw herself on a bank, opposite the camp fire, and leaned her forehead on her palm, panting and heaving for breath, hardly able to recover from the effects produced by the violent emotions to which she had given way. Her over-excited nerves trembled under the excess of passion, and she remained for a moment powerless to speak or move. Watch, pinioned as before described, and lashed unto a tree at a few paces distance, stood regarding her steadily, and waiting his time. Having given her irritation time to settle down into the weakness that naturally attends the reaction of strong excitement, he addressed her- 
               "This is harsh treatment to bestow on an old friend, Moll," said he. 
               "Friend!" repeated the gipsy, with scornful intonation. "If you are a friend, those bonds have made you one. If you are still an enemy, the same bonds will lessen the power of doing the ill you think on." 
               "What do you mean?" 
               "Frontibelle!" answered the gipsy, her dark eyes flashing with fierce and resentful excitement-"Frontibelle!" 
               "And what of Frontibelle, good mother?" questioned Watch, with a calm intrepidity that staggered the old gipsy. 
               "You have wronged her, Will." 
               "Never, to my knowledge." 
               "Stole into her heart." 
               "I never sought to do so." 
               "Lie not!" exclaimed the old gipsy, fiercely. "Do not lie, lest I despise as I hate you-lest the cold outpourings of contempt extinguish the remorse that always allies itself with fierceness." 
               "Mother, I never did a wrong to Frontibelle." 
               "Lie not, I say again!" cried the old gypsy, in a tone that testified her unwillingness to listen to excuses. "You say you never wronged her. Was it no wrong to single her out from all our tribe? To seek her young glance on all occasions, until you taught her darksome eye to rest on you alone, and then to wither her heart by your coldness. 
               "I never spoke to her of love." 
               "Deceiver! is action speechless!" 
               "Action, mother!" 
               "Are attentions dumb?" 
               "Attentions!" 
               "Is the watchful glance unheeded? or, when it seeks, or seems to seek, the pleasures of another, silent unto the flattered?" demanded the old gipsy, with quick asperity. "Is there no speech in the practised eye of the deceiver-the eye that silently obeys the motion of the heart, foresteps the wish, and gives reality to thought? You never wronged her, no! Such attentions spoke not of love-they could not-the treacherous tongue is blameless-the silent eye is guilty. You did not speak to her, and yet you won her. 
               "For what am I held here!" 
               "To enforce an act of justice." 
               "What if I refuse'?" 
               "To abide an act of vengeance." 
               "You will not dare"-- 
               "Beware how you provoke me," said the gipsy. "You who have known what I can dare, should be the last to question what I will dare to right a wrong inflicted on me or mine." 
               "What would you have me do?" asked Watch. 
               "Unite your fate with Frontibelle's, and save yourself from the bloodhounds, who only wait for the information I can give them, to be in full cry after your heels," returned the gipsy. 
                
               "You will not give that information, mother?" 
               "Will I not! what should prevent my doing so? 
               "The good faith which should always subsist with us, and such as we are. The good faith, without which characters like us could never hope to escape those whose business and whose interest it is to hunt them down like vermin, who treat both your brethren and mine like wild beasts, and are our common enemies." 
               "Shall I forego my revenge?" 
               "You must, or else incur the common fate with those you would betray." 
               You have kept no faith with me." 
               "I have never broken my pledge or troth." 
               "Did you not shoot my grandson?" 
               "Had I not cause to do so? Woman, had I found the daughter of her you once prized struggling with a brutal ruffian, and uttering cries for my assistance, I had not hesitated, had I arms at hand, to lay the brute on his kindred earth. I saw Susan Wylie struggling with a ruffian; I did not ask whether that ruffian were thy son or not. I drew my pistol-it was enough; I drew my pistol, and rescued Susan at the peril of my life: and so far from repenting what I have done, would do it o'er again in the like circumstances." 
               "You would! and yet dare to expect mercy at my hands, when you have no mercy on me or mine!" observed the old woman, in a reproachful tone. "You would have pity from me?" 
               "I ask pity from no one," said Watch sharply. "I demand merely the fulfillment of the tacit compact that exists between your people and mine, and which must subsist amongst all who live as we do, so long, at least, as a mutual sense of self-preservation can be binding." 
               "It skills not what you ask," observed Moll Purley. "Further question is unnecessary: it is enough that you are in my power, and know the way to safety." 
               "To marry Frontibelle?" 
               "Yes." 
               "You have known me, Moll, from my childhood upwards you have known me. How little are you skilled to read my character, aright when you think I either will or can yield a concession on this point." 
               "How am I to understand this?" asked Moll Purley. 
               "That I will be independent in my choice or rejection." 
               "I am to free you first, then?" 
               "Certainly." 
               Moll turned upon her heel, while an expression of the most bitter scorn governed her age-lined features. She, however, turned towards him again, and fixing her penetrating eye on him, continued- 
               "For what dost thou take me, boy, that thou strivest thus to cheat my age, to cheat the experience I have gleaned in my commerce with society-that compound of every evil that can vex the short breathing space allotted unto man? Am I a gigglot or a baby, that thus thou would'st divert me from my purposes, and set my deep-laid plans at nought? For Susan Wylie, she never can be yours. Decide, then, quickly for Frontibelle and freedom! or I denounce you to the government, and hang you like a dog." 
               "You dare not do it." 
               "Dare not!" 
               "For your life you dare not." 
               "My life!" 
               "Ay, I have friends who would not suffer you to live, should you enact the baseness you propose against me," said the smuggler, undauntedly. "I shall not die unrevenged on my denouncer." 
               "And what is life to me?" questioned the gipsy, with a scornful laugh. "Withdrawn from your present pursuits, to you it might be precious-to you it might present a long prospect of tranquil pleasure, the solace of love, the comfort of competence, a radiant day, and an unclouded sunset. I am about seventy, and my only hope now is to breathe out my soul in freedom, and rot beneath the green sward, leaving the wild flowers to tell the history of my gleesome moments, when youth, and love, and pleasure waited me. Death is no punishment to me." 
               The old gipsy, having ceased to speak, sat down on the embankment before mentioned, while Watch, unable to burst the cords that restrained him, gave himself up for lost. His mind was settled on the subject of Frontibelle. From the first moment of dalliance with the dark-eyed beauty, he had no idea of permanency. He considered her as a gipsy. Well acquainted with the world as he was, he had to learn that the most immoral and abandoned of women are compelled to form a preference, and cherish one object; that, indeed, the cunning hand of nature had established this necessity in the very infirmities imposed on general being, and that the application of this principle is sufficiently universal to establish it among the chief conditions of existence. 
               In the breast of Frontibelle passion had assumed the functions of virtue. Having given her heart to one object, she desired no other. She loved with all the energy of a young and ardent nature, nor could the tormenting throes of jealousy at having a rival preferred before her, entirely obliterate the tenderness she felt. Even when the sharp pang inflicted by Watch's coldness and neglect roused her into anger, love sprang up to temper and abate it, like the beautiful blossom of the wild briar laughing out amid thorns. 
               A child of passion, her impetuous soul carried her onward by its maddening impulse, till weakness attended on re-action, and her former tenderness returned: and when her lover had decided on marrying Susan Wylie, and her thoughts were thrown upon the past, she was willing to excuse his desertion. Her revenge was directed against her rival. Her heart was still open to her early lover, and while she was influenced by the most vehement desires of vengeance against Susan, she would have given up her life to save Watch. 
               In the earliest association between herself and the handsome smuggler, her attachment was unalloyed by an idea of sensual gratification. She loved him-she knew not why. She spoke not of passion. She asked him for no vows; but, looking into the eyes of her lover, fancied she could read his heart. It was unnecessary for her to speak of a preference erence, manifested in every movement. Her large dark eyes beamed on those of Watch with a warmth that spoke of rapture, and filled his breast with fierce and almost ungovernable desires; but they spoke with a confiding innocence, that disarmed the smuggler's heart of the harm he had intended her. 
               In short her passion for Watch had transformed her. She was no longer the gipsy outcast or vagrant. She seemed to belong to that class who, in their looks, thoughts, and feelings, hover above the clouds, picturing the future as one of unmingled brightness, and rendering earth a paradise by the powers of love alone. She had become an enthusiast; but it was by the influence of the same enthusiasm which tinctures every female heart, until experience has taught its owner that fate casts shadows as well as lights upon existence. 
               Philosophy, with all her coldness, sometimes soars beyond the ken of reason, to people the heavens with creatures like mankind, conjecturing in her assumption, that other planets are, like the earth, inhabited. It is wonderful then, that in the daring flights of infant passion, the young and ardent spirit of Frontibelle should see nothing but the reflex of its own wishes in the distance, and dream only of joy; or that she should have been the dupe of hope, when that feeling not only clings to youth, but even freezes unto age. 
               For Watch's sake, the warm hearted gipsey was willing to endure hunger, thirst, fatigue, and feel herself amply repaid for every sacrifice she made, by one kind attention. He was all in all to her; and when he deserted her, she felt herself plunged into an abyss of misery. An apparent coldness marked her whole behaviour. Her gait became melancholy-her countenance overcast-nor did she appear to take an interest in anything, until her mother revived her hopes by promising her possession of the man she loved, which promise seemed now so near its consummation. 
               Such were the feelings of Frontibelle; and notwithstanding his stern determination to keep plight and troth with Susan, Watch could hardly help sympathizing with the early object of his pursuit. The picture of a being loving him for himself alone could not fail to produce an effect upon his mind. Still, the pride of grade, that predominates every class of Englishmen, which so essentially taints their character with an indelible impression of aristocracy, revolted from the idea of choosing for his wife an outcast gipsey. He dared not present such a being to the world. He had not had firmness enough formerly to hazard the ridicule of his companions, and he had now resolved to dare the worst, rather than to submit to such a condition. 
               While Watch was thus engaged, apparently reflecting on his present state and future prospects, the old gipsey woman, ascribing his thoughtful mood to an adverse cause than that which operated his mind, continued silent, leaving him to consider the different dangers to which her active enmity had power to expose him, ere she broke in on his silence, or asked his resolution. 
               Tired of his silence, Moll Purley, at length rising from the bank on which she had been sitting, advanced slowly towards, until she stood before him. Fixing her piercing eyes upon his, she thus addressed him:- 
               "You are silent, Watch. Say, does thy silence spring from compunction for the wrongs you have done to Frontibelle, or are you willing to redress them?" 
               The smuggler made no answer. 
               "What am I to understand!" 
               "You have had my choice already." 
               "Then you decide against her?" 
               "I do." 
               "Count o'er the hours of your life, then; for as surely as I speak the word, your fate will come even on that word. No other than Frontibelle shall enjoy your hand. Reject her, and your bones shall rot and moulder above the earth, till, resolved by the winds and dews of heaven, they drop in dust to fatten and fertilise the soil of Kent. Look to it, Watch! I have said it, and will do it!" 
               "Miserable hag!" cried the smuggler, "with what an insupportable fate dost thou threaten me!" 
               "Insupportable?" laughed the old gipsy in derision. "Death when it comes is gone. All mortals die." 
               "But apprehension lives, and the disgrace!" observed the smuggler, with a faint shudder. "To think upon the coarse lewd jesting that may be thrown upon my rotting body, when my arm is powerless to resent an insult! This is terrible, indeed!" 
               "Marry Frontibelle, then." 
               "Never!" said Watch sternly. "You have my answer; nor am I to be shaken. Get thee hence. Betray me to the men who seek my life. Give me up to them at once. Depart, I say, and what thou doest do quickly." 
               "You are fixed in your determination?" 
               "Immoveably!" 
               "Your blood be on your own head," said the old gipsy, preparing to depart. "I would have saved you, but you will it not." 
               "My blood upon the head of those who violate every solemn tie to sate their cruel vengeance," said Watch calmly. "I have faced danger too often to fear it now." 
               "I would have had mercy, but you would not," muttered Moll Purley. "The path of vengeance is now the only one open to the old gipsy." 
               Disappointed thus in her firstly formed plan of compelling the smuggler leader to do justice to Frontibelle, the obdurate old woman, determined on working out her plan o vengeance, gave direction that her prisoner should be removed from public view, and placed beneath a gipsy tent to await the destiny she was about to prepare for him. 
               Having thus taken the requisite measures to secure him, she departed on her road to Ramsgate, to seek an interview with Captain Trunnion denounce her victim, and claim the price of blood. 
               When the old woman had departed on her revengeful errand. Watch, left alone, pinioned, and unarmed, beneath the shadow of a solitary tent, saw he had no resource against the malice of his enemies. He was in their power. His fate had fallen on him. Every pulsation seemed to melt out his existence by its heavy beatings. His heart throbbed violently, and he felt a sensation in his throat which well nigh deprived him of the power to breathe. A free agent, he could have struggled against danger to the last; but the terrible suspense of this moment had overcome him. It was in vain he tried to rally. Every effort failed him, and he gave himself up for lost. 
               Hour after hour winged their way in drowsy flight, crowded with spectres of the past and future, merely serving to add to the tormenting quiet that prevailed around him. The whistle of the birds was torture to his groaning breast, for it spoke of liberty, and seemed to mock his forlorn condition. He longed to hear again the voice of his fellow man. He would have given worlds in that period of agony to have heard the voice of an enemy. Death alone was present to his mind-silent, grim, solitary Death, in all his grisly majesty. The sound of a single footstep passing the surrounding solitude, would have thrilled with joy to his very heart's core, for it would have spoken of life-life, so undervalued till we are about to lose it. Even the voice of an enemy would have filled his ears with music. Insult, opprobrium, contumely, had been preferable to the horrid quietness around him. In this state of mental anxiety even old Time appeared to the bold smuggler to have laid aside his glass and rested on his march, that he might inflict another torture on the victim who might so soon be added unto the past. 
               Watch felt the solitude worse than the most terrible death. The sun had already passed the meridien, and every moment seemed to hasten on his fate. Vainly he strove to master his mind. The agonies of anticipation forbade it. At length a light step sped across the slope in front of the tent in which he was confined. He listened. A moment afterwards the skirt of the tent was drawn aside, and the youthful Frontibelle stood before him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               IN the midst of these torturing throes of suspense, Watch exerted his mental energies to crontrol the fears that must, even to the firmest mind, be inseparable from the approach of death. And as all violent emotions wear themselves out by their own force, he gradually acquired sufficient resolution to determine to brave every stroke his enemies might be prepared to inflict, without a murmur. Long accustomed to vicissitude, he deemed that, in the present state of his affairs, no change can take place for the worse-a frame of mind that admirably fitted him to make the most of his present position. Indeed, the most terrible certainty in this moment of anxiety would have been preferable to the horrors of anticipation he had been compelled to endure. 
               Such were the smuggler's feelings when the light step of Frontibelle broke on his reverie. He started as far as the cords that bound him would admit of movement. To his painful apprehension, quickened by the sense of an approaching danger, against which it was impossible to guard, the footstep of the beautiful young gipsy-a footstep that scarcely startled Silence from her repose within that leafy solitude-seemed precursor to the advance of the enemies he expected. Incapable of defence as he lay, his heart beating wildly as it poured forth its current to the brain with an increased impetuosity, that threatened the derangement of that fine organ. This thought was too much for endurance, and he glared with horrid anticipation when Frontibelle entered the tent. She caught his look of anguish, and the sympathy with which her eloquent eyes responded spoke beyond the power of language-the reproaches of a young heart deceived into a confidence ungenerously acquired, and meanly betrayed. Yet, reproachful as they were, they spoke of hope, for love was in them still. 
               On the appearance of a person so unlooked for, the conscience of the smuggler smote him deeply. The whole past was brought to his recollection, as if by the spell of an enchanter. His early affection for her revived. He felt that his conduct towards her had been indefensible, and veiled his eyes under the confiding affection conveyed in the gipsy's glance. 
               His abasement was not lost on Frontibelle. With the quickness of thought she traced a semblance of his former affection in that transient look; and, as is the wont with such as truly love, her tenderness returned, and she lost herself in dreams, wishes, and hopes that for years past had been a stranger to her bosom. 
               "Is't you, Frontibelle?" said the smuggler, averting his eyes. "I wish it had been otherwise, and that the sound I heard had announced the approach of those who are hunting for my life." 
               "Watch!" replied the young gipsy, her eyes kindling with displeasure at so ungracious a reception, "you have wittingly doomed me to a living death, by abandoning me for the sake of Susan Wylie. But I have not ceased to love you. No! nor could I, even though your cruelty was still greater than it is." 
               "Am I in fault that you love me beyond reason?" 
               "No!" returned the gipsy, mournfully; "it is the fault of nature-of that nature whose hand in all things directs all mankind. You made me love you, then bade me to forget you." 
               "I make you love me!" 
               "Ay, were not our hearts as one? Seemed not your wishes mine? Did we not breathe, and live, and love together! Alas, the dream made me so rich, so blessed, that cold reality had nothing like it. Without seeing, without speaking to each other, we grew to tenderness, and I was happy,-happy till you disturbed the dream that made me so." 
                
               "Frontibelle!" 
               "Was it possible, then, for one, untaught in your customs, to resist the impulses of nature, or control feelings that, having been once called into being, had not the power to cease when you coldly bade them do so." 
               "Dear Frontibelle," interposed Watch, when she had ceased to speak, "too fatally have we miataken each other's feelings. It has been a source of misery to both." 
               "No, Watch! no!" said Frontibelle, with energy; "there could be no mistake of feeling when every look, and word, and action, of yours, spoke the preference you gave me." 
               "Yet hear me, Frontibelle. You say you love me." 
               "Need I say so?" requestioned Frontibelle. 
               "Would love betray its object?" 
               "Would it yield that object unto another?" asked the gipsy. 
               "Rather than see it perish." 
               "Death is a common lot," said Frontibelle, thoughtfully; "death is a common lot, and brings an end to sorrow." 
               "Is that a reason to condemn me to die?" asked the smuggler. 
               "Yes," returned the gipsy; "and kinder far had it been in you to have stabbed me to the heart, and bid me die at once, than to turn away and wither that heart by your coldness." 
               "I would I could give you back the peace of mind you covet." 
               "You can!" observed Frontibelle; "none else has the power." 
               "How?" demanded the smuggler. 
               "Abandon Susan, at the hostel. Become mine. We may be happy." 
               "Your grandmother has my answer to that already." 
               "Have you rejected the hand of affection she held out to you?" demanded Frontibelle. 
               "I have." 
               "And you dare tell this unto me?" 
               "I dare! for from you, Frontibelle, I expect justice." 
               "What justice have you shown unto me?" 
               "I have never done you an injustice. Hear me, Frontibelle. Your grandmother is now on her road to Ramsgate to denounce me. Have I deserved this act at her hands?" 
               "What have you deserved more?" 
               "Fair treatment, Frontibelle! fair treatment!" said the smuggler.-"She has no right, for any supposed wrong I may have inflicted on you, to betray me unto those who will hang me like a dog." 
               "By what right then have you inflicted cruelty on me?" 
               "You speak of an imaginary cruelty; I deprecate a real one," said the smuggler. "Frontibelle, could you endure to see me condemned to the gallows-to see me brought from my dungeon in the very prime of manhood, with the warm blood of life flushing my cheek and brightening in my eyes, brought me out and exposed amid gaping thousands whose very sympathies would he a mock to my feelings? Do you think such a circumstance would add to your repose, while it effected your vengeance?" 
                
               "How would you have me answer you?" asked the young gipsy, almost overborne in her resolution by the prospective fate of her early lover. "How would you have me answer you?" 
               "Even as nature dictates," returned the smuggler-"that nature which governs your emotions. If her voice is silent in your breast, I am ready to welcome my fate, be it what it may." 
               "You would persuade me to spare you." 
               "I would persuade you to spare yourself many a bitter pang you will feel when the promptings of passion shall be manifested in a deed past recall, and you repent the fierceness that could only be appeased by blood." 
               "Can I live to see you in the embraces of another?" 
               "Far more easily than to know I am within the embrace of death, and feel that you have hurried me thereto, without sufficient cause," replied the smuggler. 
               "You deceive me, Watch! you deceive me!" cried Frontibelle.-"You know my weakness, and would triumph over it. My grandmother would neither go to Ramsgate nor denounce you." 
               "Mistress Purley knows me too well to believe I change a resolution when I've formed it," said Watch, in a firm tone. "She knows this, and has determined on vengeance." 
               "She would not pain me." 
               "She has nevertheless devoted me to destruction, and nothing but thy compunction can save my life from the blood-hounds, whom, perhaps, she has by this time set in motion." 
               "If I save your life, Watch, will you love me then?" 
               "I love you now, Frontibelle, I love you now"-the eyes of the young gipsy brightened into a warm regard, but the smuggler averted his, and concluded-"as a brother." 
               "I love you, Watch, beyond a sister's love." 
               "If this were so," asked he in return, "would you lend yourself to the cruel plot against my life, laid by your grandmother? Such conduct savours not of love." 
               "Have you to learn where disappointed love it, there also is vengeance?" asked Frontibelle. "If you have, you never felt the burning throes of passion as I have felt them." 
               "I have not, Frontibelle," returned the smuggler; "nor yet that where vengeance has been taken repentance follows; and bitter must that compunction be in which remorse can find no resting-place." 
               "I would have vengeance, but not on you, Will-no, not on you," said the young gipsy, melting into tears. "In all the storms of passion I have never breathed a wish to injure you." 
               "Why then deliver me to my enemies?" 
               "I would not do so." 
               "You may easily avoid it. Release me." 
               "And see you married to the woman I hate-the woman I must hate!" 
               "Will you give me unto death?" 
               "No, Watch, no!" said Frontibelle, with a burst of feeling. "No! at the expense of my own happiness I will save you; but defend your favored one from my hand if you can." 
               The young gipsy drew out her knife in haste, and approaching her early lover with an agitated movement, as if she distrusted her power to perform the act to which she was urged by her affection, proceeded to cut the cords which held the smuggler in thraldom. They fell from his arms, and he sprang upon his feet a free man. 
               "I deserve my fate," said Frontibelle, cowering before the look of exultation with which Will strode the tent on regaining the power of locomotion. "My weak heart has saved you at the expense of its own peace." 
               The tone in which the gipsy expressed herself, and the look of tenderness by which her words were accompanied, went to the smuggler's heart; he folded her in his arms-she hid her glowing face within his bosom. 
               "Never!" said he fervently, "never will I forget this moment. You have given me life, Frontibelle." 
               "I have given myself to death," murmured the young gipsy. "The cruel, torturing, daily death, attendant on a passion that sees but one object, knows but one object, lives but for one object, yet feels with bitter truth that object scorns her!" 
               "When I forget to be grateful to thee, Frontibelle"-- 
               The young gipsy started from the smuggler's embrace as if a viper had stung her: and she looked on him with an expression of indignant scorn as she observed- 
               "Keep gratitude for hearts that chill under the surface of your white-skinned brethren. The children of my fathers bnrn with fiercer and more headstrong impulses-impulses that throw back the social yoke with scorn, and seek happiness in liberty. I love you, Watch, therefore have I forgone my vengeance; but I am changeful. Go then, lest pondering over what I must suffer hereafter, I again give my heart to the desire of revenge. Away! lest I lose the feeling you have conjured in my breast, summon the tribe, and I say, again deprive thee of liberty-the liberty I have given thee. Away! and sometimes think of Frontibelle, the gipsy." 
               Thus dismissed, the smuggler hurried from the gipsy's tent, his heart expanding under the consciousness of his newly-acquired freedom-With a light step he bounded across the slope in front of the rude encampment, and was soon on the cross road leading to the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths, his mind filled with joyous anticipations, which hardly left room for a single sympathy for the poor girl to whose affection he owed his liberty, and whose love he had so ungratefully requitted. 
               While Will Watch, however, was detained a prisoner within the encampment of the gipsies, affairs at the hostel had taken a turn which plunged the whole family of Mr. Jeremiah Pardo in grief and consternation. We have already acquainted the reader with the steps taken by Captain Trunnion for the detection of the smugglers engaged in the late affray with the preventives. So early were his measures put into effect, that before noon proclamations containing an accurate description tion of our hero were printed and distributed through the country. 
               One of these proclamations had fallen into the hands of Farmer Welling, who lost no time in riding over to the Jolly Anchorsmiths to put his old associate on his guard. Not that he feared any of the confederacy would betray their master spirit. He knew them all too well to entertain an anticipation of treachery from that quarter. But the farmer shrewdly argued that when the description was penned so accurately as that in the handbill issued by the revenue officer, it would be worse than madness not to avoid publicity as much as possible. His mind, therefore, employed in arranging a plan for our hero's safety, prompted him to the journey; and he urged his horse onward at a pace which spoke his desire to exceed the celerity with which evil news is wont to travel. 
               It was broad noon-or, perhaps, the sun had already began his journey westward-when, galloping down the hill which terminated at the smithy door, at a pace that threatened the safety of the rider's neck, Farmer Welling rode into the area in front of the Three Jolly Anchor-smiths. Leaping from his horse in breathless haste, he half overturned Ephraim Clink, who stood staring with astonishment in the doorway, and nodding and ducking, and grinning dumb but eloquent salutations to the usually good-tempered farmer. He passed into the inn, in anxious quest of the friend he had come to succor. 
               He found the whole family assembled in the ale-room, wherein they dined, from long habit, in order to save a better apartment, for which they had no manner of use. Mistress Margaret, who presided at the dinner-table, sat as prim as a three-weeks-old recruit in the presence of a drill-sergeant, her presidency having been established, as a matter of etiquette, in her brother's house, long since. Susan Wylie sat at the foot of the table, now entirely recovered from her illness, yet looking with the touching delicacy of expression which characterizes approaching convalescence-a delicacy rendered more interesting by the languor which, repressing the buoyant spirit of health, mingles melancholy with mirth, and checks and chastens the exhuberance of joy by a refinement which rendesr it yet more pure and impressive. 
               Mistress Bridget Mullaghny was also in the ale-room laboring in her vocation-peeling potatoes for the family dinner, and thinking of the absent Hogsflesh-for the Irish maiden, like most of her country people, had a prediliction to boiling potatoes in their natural skins-filled with thoughts of love, and longing for the hour when Obadiah had promised to see her again. As the ale-room door was thrown open, Bridget started back, holding the fork in one hand, with a potatoe she was in the act of denuding of its external embellishment on its point and a knife in the other. Putting on a broad stare of mingled surprise and recognition, she exclaimed- 
               "The Lord save us, mistress! if Farmer Welling ain't come to dinner wid ye's. Arrah, now! will I git a plate and put down for him? Shure it's betther late than niver." 
               "Do, Bridget, do," said Mistress Margaret, assuming all the bustle which usually characterises the host or hostess when a welcome guest arrives at such an hour; "and, farmer, bring a chair over. We are always glad to see an old friend. This is kind now. You are as great a stranger as if you lived a thousand miles away from us." 
               "I am glad to see thee, Tom," followed Jeremiah, on the same side. "We'll talk over some of our old pranks this afternoon, I warrant ye; so sit down, and make thyself at home. What say'st thee, Susan?" 
               "Mr. Welling is always welcome," observed Susan, extending her hand unto the farmer, while a faint blush suffused her face, for she deemed he was charged with some mission from her lover. 
               "Thank ye, thank ye," said the farmer, throwing a hasty glance around the room. The object of his search was not there. After a moment's thought, however, he felt assured that, worn out by the fatigue and exertion of the previous night, Watch had betaken himself to rest; he, therefore, sat down, to wait patiently till he should make his appearance. 
               "Well, farmer," said Jeremiah Pardo, on retiring to the bar-parlour, after dinner, and drawing his chair unto the fire, "thou shalt have a bottle of the wine thou lovest, and a pipe of weed that never paid the duty-and that I know thou delightest in-while I catechise thee concerning an old friend. Now, where are you going, Mistress Susan? can't I talk of an old friend without bringing a blush into thy countenance? For my part, I wonder what you can find to blush about, for he's as handsome" 
               "La, uncle! what nonsense you talk." 
               "Nonsense or not," said Jeremiah, with a knowing wink, "I insist upon your hearing it; so thou shalt sit and pour out the wine, while I sing the praises of thy lover." 
               "If you persist, uncle, I will leave the room," said Susan, in a tone of pique. 
               "Nay, that I will, Susan. Thou wilt not go," returned her uncle; "for thou hast too much curiosity to learn the doings of thy lover. When did'st thou hear from Watch, farmer?" 
               "Hear from him!" echoed the farmer, in a tone of alarm-"when did I hear from him? Have you not seen him, then?-Has he not been here already?-Is he not here now?" 
               "How!" exclaimed Susan and Jeremiah in a breath, "here now?-What does thou mean, farmer?" 
               "Do not trifle with me," said Farmer Welling, in an anxious tone, "more depends on this moment, Jerry, than thou knowest. Say that Watch is here, and relieve my mind of the pressure that thou has cast upon it." 
               "I shall not tell a lie to please thee," observed Jeremiah. 
               "What do you mean, farmer?" questioned Susan. 
               "Have you not seen him?" cried the farmer addressing her. 
               "I have not!" 
               "Then I fear he has fallen into hands from which it will be impossible to rescue him!" exclaimed Welling-"hands eager to imbue themselves in his blood." 
               "Speak-explain yourself," said Susan, anxiously. 
                
               "Read this," said the farmer, producing the proclamation containing the smuggler's description. "He parted with me this morning, purposing to reach the hostel shortly after day-break; and I fear he has fallen into the hands of the revenue people, who will not hesitate to sacrifice his life, if they can obtain even a shadow of evidence against him." 
               The sudden effect produced by this communication on the feelings of Mistress Susan, as yet hadly recovered from her recent illness, caused her to faint. Whereupon Aunt Margaret uttered a loud cry that brought Bridget into the bar-parlour to her assistance. What Bridget lacked in method, she made up in zeal; and seeing Susan in a state of insensibility she raised her from the ground, and, in the confusion of the moment, began to sprinkle her face with the port wine instead of water; while Mistress Margaret herself was so affected by the condition of her neice, as hardly to be cognizant of what she was about. She looked a thousand sweetnesses at the prostrate Susan, and beamed as many furies at the farmer; and while she clapped the hand of the former, to reproduce circulation, reviled the latter in no very measured terms, as the cause of her neice's illness. Welling, howbeit, bore all with a very resignate spirit, and Jeremiah puffed his pipe in silence. 
               "Arrah now! fhat cause had ye's ti be frightnin' dthe young cr'athur in dthis way, wid yer slieveen thricks?" cried Mistress Bridget, addressing her discourse to the Kentish farmer. 
               "Hold your tongue, Bridget, and see to get her to," said Mistress Margaret. "Why, Bridget? I declare if you hav'nt been sprinkling Susan with red port wind-you stupid thing!" 
               "The Lord save us!" cried Mistress Bridget, with a long drawl-"the Lord save us! an' so I have: but, maybe, it 'ull do her more good dthan wather. Sure I've he'erd say so somewhere." 
               These and similar incoherences did Mistress Bridget, on being enjoined unto silence, continue muttering unto herself, while busied in restoring Susan Wylie to her senses. 
               Restored unto her senses, Susan became painfully awakened to the alarm for the safety of her lover, which was universally felt by the inmates of the hostel. Nor could Pardo or Welling devise any means of relieving themselves from the suspense in which his mysterious absence had plunged them. Three hours had elapsed in this state of uncertainty. Hope seemed to have departed for ever. She sat in silent agony, imagining the worst that could befall her. 
               The only person in the hostel on whom the alarm spread by Farmer Welling, produced no effect, was Ephraim Clink. 
               The reason of his exemption from this visitation was as follows:-When Bridget was called from the ale-room to the bar-parlour, after she and Ephraim had finished their dinner, the latter had betaken himself to the window to smoke his short pipe in silence. But though, as a separatist, he enjoyed an exemption from the alarm felt by the family, he was, by a strange fatality, the very first to produce a reaction in their feelings; for while Mistress Margaret sat with Susan, and wept because she saw her cry, and Bridget blubbered in the bar, and Farmer Welling and Jeremiah sat on either side of the fire-place, puffing whole volumes of tobacco smoke at each other, in a profound silence, Ephraim suddenly starting from the window-seat in the ale-room, where he had been basking in the latter rays of the declining sun, and gazing on his glories, aroused them all by exclaiming- 
               "The captain! the captain! Hurrah!" 
               "What Captain!" cried Mistress Margaret, running to the bar-parlor window that looked into the ale-room. 
               "What captain!" cried Susan, in the same breath; "whom do you mean!" 
               "Musha dthen, Gad speed ye!" exclaimed Bridget, as Watch arrived at the inn door; and a moment afterwards he was locked in the embrace of Susan Wylie, and surrounded by friends, whose loud congratulations and hearty expressions of satisfaction spoke the pleasure they took in the reunion. 
               Watch briefly recounted the danger he had just escaped, when the whole party sat down to consider the best measures to be adopted for his safety. 
               Leaving the bar party at the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths engaged in this interesting discussion, we will return unto the gipsy station from which Watch had contrived to escape. When Moll Purley found that neither threats nor promises would induce the smuggler to return to Frontibelle, she made up her mind to vengeance; accordingly, taking up her staff, she trudged on her road to Ramsgate, to sell his blood to the revenue people. Her knowledge of the affair betwixt the black schooner and the revenue cutter had given her a power she had never possessed before, and she determined to use it even to the peril of her life. Energetic beyond her age, her vindictive spirit bore her up against the fatigues of her march, cunning, shrewd, and observant, her ears were open to the voice of rumor as she passed along: nor had she proceeded very far on the journey, ere she heard of the proclamation issued by Captain Trunnion, as well as the amount of the reward offered for the apprehension of Watch. The news filled her with a vigor arising from renewed hope. 
               To recount particulars would be tedious. The old gipsy sought and obtained an interview with Trunnion. She denounced the smuggler; and, accompanied by Smallwood and a strong body of preventives, retraced her step towards the encampment she had quitted at noon.-Arrived there, she advanced with the eagerness of a wild beast, about to seize its prey. 
               On hearing the heavy rumble of the carriage brought by the preventives to convey their expected caption to a prison to await his trial, Frontibelle emerged from the tent. 
               "Who are ye, that, in the garb of hounds, thus seek the dwelling of the crouching hare? Friends ye are none-for friends come not here with arms." 
               "Stand aside, Frontibelle! stand aside!" exclaimed the elder gipsy; "the hour of vengeance has arrived! nor shall you stay the end for which I've longed with so much eagerness." 
               "Say ye so?" 
                
               "I do." 
               "Whom seek ye, then? asked she 
               "Will Watch," answered Smallwood. 
               "You must take him elsewhere, then," said the younger gipsy. 
               "How?" demanded Moll Purley, in surprise. 
               "I have released him!" returned the younger gipsy. "It were not fitting, methinks, that he who has defied thy power so long, should die the death you would not be brave enough to inflict on a mad dog." 
               "Fool!-pity-subdued fool!" cried the old woman, in wrath. "But it is not yet too late. Forward! to the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths.-Quick work, my men, and he is ours." 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               WHEN Mistress Bridget gave the signal for happiness to the melancholy inmates of the bar-parlor, by announcing the smuggler's arrival, her own heart beat an alarm to love, in such a tumultuous manner, that every fibre in her frame seemed dilating with delight. 
               This powerful stretch of sympathy-this tumult in the vestal veins of Mistress Bridget Mullaghny-arose from the fact of the appearance of her own Hogsflesh, at the identical moment she threw the door wide open to admit our hero Nor will the tumultuous rush of her blood, nor the sensation that almost choked her, be considered wonderful, when we affirm that-notwithstanding the drawback occasioned by a certain ludicrous twist of feature, of which he could not entirely divest himself-Obadiah's eyes paid that sort of homage unto the charms of the Irishwoman, which women of all countries know so well how to appreciate. 
               "Arrah, now!" cried Mistress Bridget, extending hee hand, with a kind of bantering smile, much used amongst her countrywomen in the period of their courtship. "Arrah, now! who'd ha' thought of seein' your ugly face. Sure it was a wise man as made dthe praverb-It never rains but it powrs." 
               "La! Missus Bridget, you knowed I was comin'," observed Obadiah, twisting his mouth like a corkscrew, to let loose the champagne sparkle of his eye. The look went to the heart of the Irish maiden, and she silently led the way to the ale-room, where, seated in the window, the ancient hammerman still smoked his short pipe. 
               "Next Sunday 'll be the last time of askin' Missus Bridget," said Obadiah, taking his seat near the maiden, as soon as Ephraim had released him from his grasp. 
               Matters being so far arranged between them, the pair of turtles subsided into silence, and looked a thousand unutterable things at each other, until, at Obadiah's suggestion, Bridget began to prepare him some of his favorite beverage. 
               When Bridget and her companions were thus engaged in the ale-room room, the company in the bar-parlor were occupied by a discussion no less interesting to their own feelings; and each zealousy tendered advice on the best means of affording our hero protection and concealment in his present adverse circumstances. Watch's recital filled them all with alarm; as the defection of Moll Purley was likely to compromise the safety of more than one of the party. 
               Susan Wylie, who had already tested the splenetic violence of Frontibelle, could not help experiencing alarm, when her lover announced the vindictive intentions of her rival. 
               "If I had thee at home wi' me, Will," said Farmer Welling, hazarding an observation-"If I had thee at home, the Hole would furnish thee a safe concealment as long as needful; but that 'nation Mother Purley has laid every approach to the farm, I warrant thee, by this time. She well knows that, in times of danger, Tom Welling would be the first to fly to: so that an attempt to return wi' me would be downright madness-at least, in my mind, captain." 
               "London is the only place for safe concealment, farmer," returned Watch; "the metropolis of movement, where everybody is too much troubled in his own affairs to be curiously prying into those of his neighbor. 
               Jeremiah removed the pipe from his mouth, but said nothing. 
               "To-morrow I will make my way thither," continued the smuggler; "I am apt at personation, and must think of some disguise will answer my purpose, What say you, Susan-will you join an old friend in the metropolis?" 
               Susan's heart expanded under a sense of pleasure the most exquisite, when she marked the tone and look of deep affection with which her lover's words were uttered and accompanied. She was happy. She loved the smuggler with the whole power of her heart-she felt she was beloved in return. What, then, could make her look otherwise than happy. 
               "You do not, then, despise your outlawed lover?" 
               "Despise you, Watch," said Susan, tremulously. 
               "Will you dare to wed me as I am?" asked the smuggler. 
               "Dare, Watch?" iterated Susan. "To what end have I sought to be your wife, if I am to honor you in prosperity alone? It is in the hour of adverse fortune that woman's virtues most conspicuously show." 
               "I will brave my fate, then!" said the smuggler. "Loved by you I may be happy, in spite of persecution; and in London, under a feigned name, I may bid defiance to detection." 
               "I have no doubt I shall be able to conceal him," said old Jeremiah, now taking his part in the conversation. "Long before you came amongst us, I have bid defiance to the excisemen, with thousands of pounds in my possession in contraband material. Thy Hole, Tom, shifted a heavy responsibility off my shoulders, and enabled me to put the government people on a false scent, while thou quietly drovest a trade. Never fear, an' the worst come, I have a place of concealment in this hostel that might defy any but the horn and hoof of the devil to penetrate its secrecy or invade its solitude. This is true, Tom, as thou shalt find when the time comes." 
                
               "What dost thou mean, Jerry?" asked the farmer. 
               "Thou wilt see-thou wilt see, Tom," answered the landlord, with his usual chuckle; and the two cronies talked apart, while Watch took occasion to converse with Susan Wylie. 
               "My misfortunes, then," said he, in a deep tone; "my misfortunes have not scared thee from thy promise. You are still willing to unite thy fate with mine?" 
               "Watch," returned Susan, in a tone which spoke of woman's untiring and disinterested love, "it would be small merit to love only while life presented a phase of unclouded prosperity." 
               "But you have not weighed the comforts you are about to sacrifice, or the troubles and cares you will have to endure as the wife of a proscribed and wretched outlaw," said the smuggler. 
               "There needs no deliberation where the mind is settled." 
               "And yours is fixed?" 
               "Irrevocably." 
               "And in spite of the terrors of my fate-of such a fate-prospective infamy, in the world's eye at least-you plight me your maiden troth?" exclaimed Watch, with a glance of triumph. 
               "In purity and truth I plight it." 
               "I shall be happy then." 
               "If I can make you so." 
               "Thou turnest thine eye on me, boy," said Jeremiah Pardo, instantly recognizing Watch's silent appeal; "and truly may I say, that, in saving thy life, I am about to entrust thee with a secret, which sister Meg, there, with all her curiosity, and she hath as much as ever fell to the share of a woman, could never yet fathom or find out. Susan, get us a couple of lanthorns. There are more secrets in the vaults beneath us, than are dreamt of by any in the family except myself. Thou wilt learn one of them to-night, Will-shall at once astonish and save thee, if old Moll attempt to carry her threat into execution." 
               Jeremiah Pardo, taking up a lanthorn, led the way, followed by Welling bearing another, and Watch. They proceeded by a passage, which ran backward, nearly to the full extent of the building. 
               While they were engaged in the interesting discussion above detailed, Mistress Bridget and her friends in the ale-room were making the most of their time. While joy laughs in the hall, sorrow knocks at the door, and Bridget, even in the very heyday of her mirth, while she was giggling and looking as silly as a girl of sixteen, and her lover was looking as silly as herself, was disturbed by the unusual sound of a carriage driving at full speed towards the hostelry. She rose from her seat. 
               Proceeding to the window, with no small degree of trepidation in her manner, occasioned by a circumstance so extraordinary in the hostel at that dull period of the year, the Irish woman perceived the covered wain used for the conveyance of the preventives, while Obadiah Hogsflesh, struck by the fear to which the object of his passion had involuntarily given way, and acted on by those enlivening stimulants-flip and affection-placed his arm tenderly round her waist, while he inquired in a voice rendered tremulous by the combined effects of love and liquor, the occasion of so much alarm. 
                
               Several preventives now descended from the wagon. 
               Bridget looked astounded. 
               "Ah, mushagrah!" she exclaimed, "the Philistines are upon us." 
               "Lauk! what nonsense you talk," cried her lover, "thes arn't nothin' but preventive men." 
               "Sure thim's the men I mane," cried the Irish maiden. "Blurganounters! stand aside, honey, and let me boult the door. Don't be making sich ugly faces; but help me to keep dthim out av this." 
               "Why, you wou'dn't refuse admittance to the king's men?" cried Obadiah, with a look of horror. 
               "I'd refuse admittance to the king himself, till I ax'd his r'ason for payin' us a visit," cried the maiden, making her way into the hall, for the purpose of barricading the entrance. 
               Yet herein the fortune which usually attended the volorous efforts of Mistress Bridget Mullaghny seemed altogether to have turned tail and deserted her. Notwitstanding the agility she displayed on this momentous occasion, she was too late to prevent the evil she dreaded. For even with her intention, as she laid her hand on the hall door, two of the preventives rushed in so suddenly as to run against and overturn her. 
               "Murther, murther! It's kilt I am entirely!" exclaimed the Irish maiden. 
               "Oh! on to the bar-parlour!" cried the old gipsy, fiercely. 
               Dashing forward by the direction of the latter, the preventives arrived at the entrance of the passage into which the bar-parlour opened, and at the other end of which Farmer Welling, lanthorn in hand, was about to shut the door leading to the vaults beneath the house. The door closed heavily behind him, and the passage became suddenly darkened. 
               "They are escaping this way," cried Josiah Smallwood. "Quick, quick! A light there! Our game is on the wing before us, and we shall bring him down yet." 
             
             
               CPAPTER X. 
               AS we related in the last chapter, Smallwood, on arriving at the door of the bar-parlour, seeing Farmer Welling in the act of passing the cellar entrance at the other end of the passage, set up the view halloo, by calling for lights, and, moreover, not being deficient in personal courage, made a rush forward in the dark, lest a moment's delay should contribute to defeat the proposed capture. They, however, says the proverb, stumble that run fast, and the adventurous preventive man encountering a harmless cat midway, he was precipitated to the ground with such stunning violence, as nearly rendered him senseless, till, torches having been lighted by his companions, he contrived to regain his feet, when the whole party, save one, proceeded to the cellar. 
               Time is necessary to mature all things. Let it suffice, therefore, that the time gained unto the smuggler by the fall of the stout-hearted hearted and quick-sighted Josiah Smallwood, enabled him to escape the gipsy-led preventives, notwithstanding they were so close upon his heels. 
               The noise made by the revenue men, when rushing into the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths they overturned Mistress Bridget in their eagerness to effect a legal entry, reached the ear of Watch in the first instance, who be it remembered, was the last one who left the bar parlor, and therefore, occupied the post of danger, and brought up the rear. Urged onward by a fear of being captured, our smuggler pressed past Farmer Welling in a hurry to get away from his pursuers, and overtook old Jeremiah Pardo ere he had descended the cellar stairs. 
               Having reached the ancient landlord mid-way in his descent, he endeavored to urge him to quicker movement by whispering a watch-word well known amongst contrabandists, namely, "the Philistines be upon thee, Sampson." But, alas, the day! Matters with the Octogenarian were not as they had been. Wherefore, this communication threw him into a confusion that well nigh proved the cause of their miscarriage: for the alarmed old man stopped short, and turned his eyes toward the door at the stair-head, and a tremulous convulsion shook his frame, when he heard the preventives were so close upon him. 
               "Quick, quick!" cried Welling, closing the door after him, and descending the stairs in the greatest trepidation. "Everything depends on the energy of a moment. Quick, Pardo, quick!" 
               "They are not upon us, Tom, are they?" asked the trembling old man. 
               "Not yet: but will be immeniately." 
               "For heavens sake, recall your mind," cried Watch, yielding under the pressure of apprehension. "They will be here directly. Another moment and I shall be lost." 
               "Another moment and thou wilt find all as it should be, Will, I warrant thee, said Jeremiah Pardo, recovering himself. "Thou did'st take me somewhat aback; but I am all right again; so follow me, and if they take thee, lad, say as I never know'd how to cheat an excise-man, and then nobody will believe thee." 
               "On, on, my friend!" cried Watch, impatiently. 
               "All in good time," returned Jeremiah, "as I will satisfy thee, ere thou art two minutes older." 
               And, accordingly, re-commencing his march, he led the way through a spacious vault into one of smaller dimensions, and which appeared to be the cellar containing all the stock of his establishment. Having arrived at this spot, the landlord stopped before a vessel, whose outward appearance proclaimed it to be a butt of sherry, had not the clear hollow sound it sent back, on Jeremiah rapping it with his knuckles, proved it was but a sherry butt. 
               "Tis here!" said Jeremiah, with a look of triumph. 
               "What's here?" demanded Watch, "For heaven's sake do not trifle. Hark! I hear the thread of my pursuers above. Have you brought me here to befool me into a surrender? What do you mean? What's here?" 
               "The means of your escape," said Jeremiah Pardo, mounting on a block which stood near him. He pressed on a concealed bolt, and the resisting machinery overcome, the bellied front of the butt flew open, and disclosed the secret entrance to a spacious inner vault the landlord had formerly used as a place of deposit for contraband articles. 
               "Said I not aright?" cried Jeremiah. "There is a concealment so safe from intrusion, that it will bid defiance to the powers of those who are bent on thy destruction. Your lanthorn, Tom, or mine will do as well. In with you, boy, and once safely ensconced, he must be overwise who discovers your hiding-place." 
               Seeing such a place of concealment before him, Watch lost no time but darted instantly into the gloomy passage, secure now from the intrusion of the officers who were on his heels. 
               "Stand not staring with all thine eyes after that fashion, Tom," said the old landlord, after a moment's pause. "It won't do to be surprised here, without some excuse that will pass current with these preventive people. Odd's man! you ought to know them by this time; they are cunning as rats, and watchful as weasels." 
               "Thou hast proved thou can'st keep a secret, even from thy friends. But what are we to do now, man, for the rascals will be here immediately?'" 
               "Do, Tom!" exclaimed the landlord, taking a corkscrew from his pocket, and then producing two glasses without feet. "Do! why I will make thee free of the cellar. Dost like Madeira?" 
               The two friends then sat down on a couple of inverted drip tubs to enjoy themselves. 
               The Kentish farmer and his old colleague of the Anchorsmiths had hardly drained the first glass to their absent friends, ere they could distinctly hear Smallwood descending the cellar stairs. 
               "They come Tom," said Jeremiah, with a wink of triumph. 
               "I wish they were at the devil," said Farmer Welling. 
               "Come on, there!" shouted the zealous Josiah. "Come on! Take you the torch, and stand sentinel on the stairs; shoot any one who attempts to pass without my orders; let the remainder follow me to the inner vault. By the light yonder, the object of our search must be somewhere there-away. Remember and revenge your lost companions." 
               "I apprehend you in the king's name!" vociferated Josiah Smallwood, throwing himself forward, and grasping the athletic farmer by the shoulder. The farmer, however, shaking off his grasp, looked him steadily in the face. 
               "For what would'st thou apprehend me, quotha!" 
               "We are in search of a pirate." 
               "Well, here are two of us-old Jerry and myself. We are not I trow, the men you are in quest of?" said the farmer, with a slight curl of his lip. 
                
               "We are in search of but one person." 
               "And you come into a wine-callar to look for him?" 
               "Farmer Welling," interposed Moll Purley, "I know you, and wet well the deep reasons you have to harbor him we seek. If you hold my friendship of any value, give him up-if you hold my enmity of no account, keep him; for I swear, by the stars I read, that some of you shall rue the hour when you thwarted old Moll Purley." 
               "Whom dost thou mean?" 
               "Will Watch!" said the old woman, fiercely. "Will Watch, the smuggler-the murderer-the pirate-the cowardly runagate!" 
               "And for you," said Jeremiah Pardo, addressing himself unto the preventives, "it ought to be sufficient to know the man you speak of is nowhere in this hostel. A plague take you all! Cannot a man prove his own wine within his cellar, without being burst in upon in his hours of relaxation and refreshment." 
               "I'll search every nook till I ferret out the hiding-place of the pirate-I have no doubt he is concealed upon the premises," exclaimed Smallwood. 
               "You have my free permission fo search," said the sarcastic Jeremiah. "To your search, fool, and leave us to our wine." 
               Saying these words, the landlord of the hostel turned towards his old friend and bottle, leaving Smallwood and his companions to inspect the vaults. From the stairs, on which the careful preventive man had stationed a sentinel, and which served as a common entrance to the subterranean apartments, branched out on either sides various cellars perfectly free from damp. 
               The passage leading from the foot of the stair immediately through the centre of the building, was formed by two lines of heavy Saxon pillars, from the summits of which sprang low arches crossing centrally, and so masssive in their structure, that they seemed intended to last until earth should be loosened from its foundation, and the works of man, yielding to a higher power, be destroyed with the creation. On either side of this passage, low, small, and narrow cells were disposed, which, notwithstanding their locality, had probably been used formerly as sleeping rooms for the mendicants and pilgrims, whether lay or clerical, who made their periodical journies unto Canterbury, and whose vows prohibited them from the use of a better chamber, or a more luxurious accommodation. 
               Smallwood keeping the lead of his companions by a few paces, cautionsly examined the cells on either side of the passage. He returned satisfied that the smuggler was not in the vaults beneath the inn. 
               Dispirited by his lack of success, the preventive leader now entered the cellar where old Pardo and Farmer Welling still sat enjoying their Madeira, and cracking their jokes on the intruders. 
               "Come, come, my friends!" said Welling, "thou hast found nothing; so away with you elsewhere, and, perchance, you may be more successful." 
               "Stir not a man-move not, I charge you!" said the old gipsy; "for of a surety, he whom ye seek is here. There is but one other refuge unto which he could have flown." 
               "Wilt thou take our permission and search again?" asked Welling, angrily; "or shall we be compelled to betake us to our rights, and cudgel you out of a freeman's holding?" 
               "We will do even as thou hast permitted us," said Smallwood; "a strict search, and we may take him yet." 
               "Dost think to find him in this empty bottle?" asked the farmer, sarcastically, holding up the one which he and his friend the landlord had just emptied to the prosperity of the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths 
               "Ay!" chimed in the venerable Jeremiah, "dost thou think to find a man in an empty bottle? Thou might'st as well look to break an egg in an empty sack, as the saying is." 
               "If not in an empty bottle," exclaimed the old gipsy, quickly, "I trow we may find him in an empty butt. Lo, there, my friends," she concluded, pointing to the farmer and his friend, "Have I not hit the mark?" 
               This random conjecture of the gipsy struck old Pardo and his friend with sudden terror, and for a moment, they believed she had discovered their secret by preternatural agency. 
               Smallwood, who possessed more shrewdness than generally falls to the lot of a sailor, could not help observing their agitation, any more than he could avoid drawing conclusions, under all the circumstances, very unfavorable to old Pardo and his farmer. 
               "What mean'st thou by that, hag?" demanded the landlord, rendered nervous by the feelings of rage and apprehension which were mingling in contest in his bosom. "What meanest thou by that?" 
               "What matters it to thee what I mean, Jerry?" asked the old woman, with a sneer: "it is plain I have hit the white, whether you be disposed to surrender Will or not." 
               "Plain, plain!" cried several. 
               After a rigid inspection of the empty barrels, satisfied that none of them gave shelter to the object of their search, Smallwood relinquished his undertaking. There must, he thought, be some mystery connected with the subterranean apartments of the hostel, which, though he had as yet been unable to fathom, he might eventually find out. While in this mood, he paused before the butt which covered the entrance to the vault in which Watch lay concealed. Striking it with his knuckles, the souhd convinced him it was empty. 
               "This butt seems empty," said Smallwood. 
               "It is so by mere accident," said the landlord. 
               "How?" 
               "We wash sometimes," observed the landlord, "and that butt forms our reservoir for rain-water. You see it hath a pipe bored through the roof of the vault: and unless you imagine the man you seek could squeeze h-mself through the bung hole, there would be small chance of his escaping that way. Examine it well. It's duly headed and bottomed." 
               While his enemies were thus actively engaged, our hero, alternating between hope and fear, felt most inclined to quarrel with himself for having submitted to his present restraint. He counted every moment with impatience. With that instinctive desire, which all men feel, to know the worst under any great or pressing emergency, he left his lantern in the inner cave, and crept, with a noiseless and stealthy movement, as near its entrance as possible. His feelings, therefore, on hearing Josiah Smallwood strike the butt with his knuckles, may be imagined. Every drop of blood seemed pressing on his brain at once. Relieved, at length, by Smallwood's relinquishment of further search, the smuggler again retired to the inner vault. And the preventives, having awhile talked apart, they all left the cellar-the preventive men to taste the ale, and the landlord to get rid of his troublesome visitants. 
               While engaged in drinking their ale, Smallwood and a preventive, acting by previous concert, slipt down the cellar stairs without being detected. The other preventives then left the inn, which was closed for the night. 
               Meantime, in the midst of darkness, the adventurous Josiah Smallwood, and his brother preventives patiently tarried the coming of the farmer and landlord to release the smuggler. 
               Having waited long enough to enable the preventives to quit the neighborhood, Pardo descended to release his friend. Smallwood saw him coming, and, darting behind a pillar, concealed himself, motioning his companion to the stair-head to be ready to alarm their friends outside. 
               Pardo threw open the secret entrance, and Watch came forth, when Josiah Smallwood rushing forward, again confronted the commander of the black schooner, whom he ordered to surrender. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               JEREMIAH Pardo, who, like Master Seacoal in the comedy, bore the lanthorn, found his energies so paralysed by the sudden irruption of the preventive, that he staggered backward a few paces, with the utmost horror impressed upon his aged countenance when he saw a secret he had treasured from his youth about to be promulgated to the world; while our hero, putting on a Thou-Kill-Caius-Marius sort of look, rushed on Josiah ere he had time to draw his sword, and, mastering the half-drawn weapon, found it a new sheath, by plunging it into the aforesaid Josiah's body. Smallwood reeled to the opening of the vault, called to his companion to give the alarm, and fell-never to rise again. 
               Hearing the last words of the preventive he had just slain, Watch saw that he had no time to waste; wherefore, snatching the lanthorn from the hands of Jeremiah Pardo to direct him in his pursuit, he rushed towards the cellar stairs, near unto the top of which stood Smallwood's companion, ready to give the alarm as soon as he could reach the door. The alarm would have been given on the instant, had not the preventive been stayed by the surrounding darkness. Howbeit 
                   ed by the gleam of the smuggler's lanthorn, he sprang eagerly towards the door. The lanthorn further exposed our hero to the preventive's aim, who was nowise unwilling to take advantage of that circumstance, and kill too birds with one stone, in sending the smuggler on his last long journey, and alarming his comrades outside by the same shot. 
               Death was about to triumph; but just as the preventive cocked his pistol, Fortune stepped in, in the person of Farmer Welling, who, throwing the cellar door wide open, dealt the preventive a tremendous blow under his left ear, that sent him to join his companion at the bottom of the stairs, while the three confederates, meeting together in the midst of the cellar, found themselves in a situation to hold an inquest on the two bodies, though not exactly one on which a crown prosecution was likely to base itself. 
               Watch looked at Welling-he had given himself up for lost on hearing the click of the preventive's pistol-Welling looked at Watch, and Jeremiah Pardo stared at them both, without having a word to say for himself. 
               "Tom," said Watch, shuddering, "from my youth upwards I have had an aversion to blood shedding. Even now have I slain a fellow creature, and though it was done in self-defence, I cannot think on't without horror. 
               "Oh, thou hast killed another of the varmint; eh, Will?" cried the farmer. 
               "Well, lad, who's to blame thee? Not I, I promise thee. You must shake off these megrims in times of common danger; therefore, as turn about's fair play, I'll take this chap as I sent down stairs on my own account, so make your mind easy on that score." 
               Welling advanced to the preventive man he had just before precipitated down the cellar stairs, for the purpose of bestowing the coup de grace on his prostrate enemy, but found he was already dead, when, aided by Watch, he dragged the body into the inner cellar, when all three took council as to their ulterior operations. 
               Brief council was held by these desperate men. Their present exigency required prompt measures, nor did they waste time, too precious to be lost, in fruitless debate. Their safety was to be provided for. Their last act had compromised them all. Each felt a common danger, and acting under a common necessity, devised means for the common safety. All was energy-all was motion. Even Jeremiah Pardo, impressed by a sense of their mutual danger, shaking off his age, took his part in the debate, with a mind as active as his companions. 
               The last effort made by Josiah Smallwood in the discharge of his duty served to acquaint Will Watch with the proximity of the preventive people, who had a few minutes previously quitted, after having searched the inn. The necessity of immediate action became obvious. Should they return ere the bodies of their companions had been secreted, nothing could save the confederates. Our smuggler felt that, under the uncertain circumstances which seemed to involve his friends, to lose a moment would be madness. 
               Wherefore, in the first instance, he had called upon Farmer Welling to assist him in conveying the bodies of the murdered men into the inner vault, that had so lately served him for a place of concealment, and which must again serve a similar purpose should necessity leave him no other alternative. Yes, notwithstanding the vicinity of its present terrible and silent tenants, one of whom he had slain with his his own hand, he must be their companion. Nature revolted from the contemplation, and he shuddered at the thought of such companionship. Fearless as were the impulses of the smuggler on ordinary occasions, he sickened with disgust, and turned with horror from the prospect that awaited him. 
               To be be immured with the silent dead! To contemplate the cold corses of those who had been hurried thus untimely into the presence of their Creator! To think of his own share in the bloody deed! Silent, solitary, isolated from his associates, to have ever-active memory bring back the lessons he had been taught in boyhood-lessons he had been taught at home-lessons which are wont to hover about the heart, and reproach the crimes of our maturity, making a routine of obligation from which the most depraved cannot depart with impunity-lessons which would tell him, trumpet-tongued, that his victims had died in the discharge of a high and imperative duty, and that his guilt as a murderer was thereby increased, even beyond the latitude of self-perservation. This was too terrible to be thought upon. Yet terrible as it was, he wound himself to the necessity rather than inculpate his friends; though, to his mind, death itself would be easier to endure than the terrors which shook him, when he looked forward to the solitary vigil he had to keep near the dead bodies of his victims. 
               Yet, notwithstanding these feelings laboured in his breast, and well nigh paralysed him, he exerted all his energies to remove everything which might impugn the friends who had saved him from danger and disgrace. He took every precaution that prudence could dictate, and in a few minutes was satisfied that nothing short of a special intervention of Providence could detect either himself or them. 
               Having deposited the bodies of the two preventive men, by aid of the farmer, within the vault, his next care was to gather up the sawdust which had absorbed the blood of the murdered Smallwood. This was carefully put aside to be burnt, in order to destroy all evidence of the late fatal affray. He could entertain no doubt that the preventives would soon be upon them in search of their missing companions, and though denied admittance then, that they would return on the following day, backed with sufficient authority to search the premises, a demand which, if made, it would be fruitless to deny. Fortunately for them, in their present desperate circumstances, the wound that deprived Smallwood of life, had immediately affected a vital organ, so that the impeded circulation flowed inwardly, and choked the lungs, and their was little outward effusion. 
               What little there was was easily removed, while a part of the contents of an old binn served to put a new face upon the matter, and, in less than ten minutes after the affair had terminated, the cellar bore an appearance that would have defied the quickest sight to discover a single trace of the recent tragedy, or anything to cast the slightest suspicion on the actors therein. They had hardly completed these arrangements, when Mistress Bridget made her appearance among them, wondering how they had contrived to spirit Watch away in a moment of such danger, or what could detain them all below after the house had been cleared of its late unwelcome visitants; or, perhaps, as desirious as persons of her sex and station usually are, of making herself mistress of a family. 
               "Arrah, now! the Lord save an' defind us!" said Mistress Bridget, folding one arm over the other, and shrugging her shoulders, and bending her body forward, as if the chill of the cellar was too piercing for her delicacy of habit. Fhot can keep ye's all down in dthe cellar fhind there's no more need on't? Sure dthere's a comfortable room above stairs, wid a fire ye's might roast an ox by, if it fhas on'y big enough; and ye's all to sleep here in dthe cowld! Arrah, now, captain dear! fhere sthrive to consale yersilf so cleverly? For it fhas a big fright I got fhin dthat Omadawn av a sheriff's officer opened his mouth so fhide awhile ago, a vourneen." 
               "I'd wager my head, Bridget, you are mighty anxious to get at the secret," returned Watch, smiling; "but I do not think you will be able. It is sufficient I heard all that passed." 
               "Musha dthen!" said the Irishwoman, putting on a broad stare of astonishment. "It must be by good people you are purticted entirely! Sure they s'arched iviry butt dthat fhas impty." 
               "And had their trouble for nothing." 
               "But fhasn't you in one av dthem, captain, joy?" asked Bridget. 
               "I was," said Watch. 
               "Well," continued the Irishwoman, "that bates Bannagher!" 
               "Let it surprise, as well as suffice you, to know I can at my own pleasure render myself invisible." 
               "Well, now! said the Irishwoman, putting up both her hands, "the Lord save dthe hearers! Fhonders 'ull niver c'ase. Sure you must have I'arnt dthat in dthim outlandish parts." 
               "But away with you now, Bridget. Look to all the fastenings. See that every entrance is secured. I'd wager my life the preventives are still in the neighborhood. Nor is it all impropable they will even attempt the inn again to-night. It therefore behoves us all to keep a good lookout, for our own sakes. As for that old witch"-- 
               "M'anin' Misthress Purley," quoth Bridget. 
               "Leave her to me, Will," said Farmer Welling, with a fierce gesticulation; "leave her to me. Her power of doing further mischief must be stopped, and I know of but one way. I have means enough at hand, d-her! And I'll take care that holding the safety of a hundred of us in her keeping, I won't trust either to her honesty of mercy in future." 
               "Hold, man! Do nothing rashly. It will only involve us in still greater difficulties. Let her live, farmer" observed Watch. "I do not fear she will betray any other than myself; and against me, perhaps, she has ample cause of resentment. Lucre, I am persuaded would not tempt her to turn informer; and if insatiate of revenge, she still thirsts after my blood-" 
               "It would be sufficient to give every friend a right to resent your injuries," said Welling, with great warmth. "Of what use are friends if they shift and shirk from a man when he's in danger?" 
               "This quarrel is my own, farmer." 
               "Thou'lt put her out of the way thyself, then?" 
               "I will treat her with contempt, as heretofore." 
               "And so sting her into further efforts of malice," observed the farmer. "But go thy way; it shall be even as thou sayest. If a gibbet should be thy reward, thou deservest it for this lenity." 
               "I do not like shedding blood, except when the blood is up." 
               "I must hazard her resentment, farmer, and abide my fate," said the smuggler; "Providence or accident, call it which you will, will bring me off as heretofore. If not, why there's no help for it; but though I believe what will be will be, in spite of my precautions, I will not neglect the means necessary for my preservation. So, d'ye hear, Bridget? bear a-hand, and put everything ship-shape. Look to all the bolts and fastenings, so that we may be safe, at least, from surprise. I apprehend another attempt before the morning." 
               "Well, well," interposed Jeremiah Pardo, "settle the matter how you please. There's one thing I'll have my say in. So each of you take a bottle to drink to our noble selves; and, Bridget, do thou take one for thyself and Clink. Since we have so far escaped the clutches of the crown officers, we will make a night on't, and Jack shall rejoice with his master. Adzooks! I wish every preventive were in the Bay of Biscay, with a mill-stone round his neck; but, near as they are, they shall not prevent our drinking defiance to them all." 
               Thus saying, the jolly Jeremiah snatched up a bottle accordingly, when Mistress Bridget, as in duty bound, followed the example of her master; and Welling and our hero, having provided themselves in like manner, the whole party hied them to their several and respective destinations; Bridget to play dumb crambo with Clink, and our hero and his friends to the bar-parlour. 
               The death of Josiah Smallwood had removed the only witness amongst the preventives whom Will Watch had any reason to dread; and, truth to say, if that very zealous individual had not been put out of the way so fortunately, there were others connected with the black schooner who had devoted him to destruction whensoever the opportunity should offer. 
               The conflict in the bosom of Susan Wylie, while the preventives were searching the under premises of the hostel, had been torturing in the extreme. Prudence dictated the assumption of an external calmness, and she exerted her mind to an equality with her circumstances. 
               Mistress Margaret Pardo was also silent. Compelled to endure the presence of the officers, she sat in cold disdain, looking with a dignity sufficient to strike a parish constable with awe, though it produced but little effect on the preventive service. 
                
               In this state were the ladies found on the return of Watch, Welling, and Jeremiah to the bar-parlour; and in this state we must leave them to recount some particulars with which it is necessary to acquaint the reader. 
               When Will Watch, on being released by Frontibelle, quitted the gipsy station, he did not leave it unobserved; and though he was permitted to pursue his journey unmolested, he was kept under a strict surveillance. 
               But there is always something to frustrate the best intentions, and Moll Purley riding in the covered wain to the hostel, Barney passed her on the road, and arrived at the gipsy station merely to learn the old woman had led the preventives to the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths, whither Barney, anxious to prevent her displeasure, again retraced his steps. 
               Agitated by very natural fears for her lover's safety, Frontibelle, on seeing Barney and the Mavis quit the station in quest of the old camp mother, determined on following her grandam to the hostel, hoping to detach the splenetic old woman from her proposed revenge. 
               "He will love me," thought she. Alas! how frequently do women deceive themselves in affairs of the heart! "He must love me. The very sacrifices I make for him, will they not touch his heart?-Can her warmth equal mine?-Bred in a cold routine of petty duties, chained by habit unto the observance of certain forms, the wild liberty of Nature expands not in her breast. The generous devotion, which sacrifices self for another's safety, cannot animate the chilled heart of one who shrinks from Nature's impulses as so many crimes. The time is come to manifest my devotion-to show that I love him beyond my life. Yes, yes! he loved me once-he will love me again." 
               Animated by these thoughts, Frontibelle took the road to the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths, continuing to keep up her enthusiasm by similar self-delusions, and feeding her hopes by lively pictures of the effect her service in this moment of peril would have, by recalling her lover to a recollection of his former passion for her. 
               Return we now to the Three Jolly Anchorsmiths, and the preventives who had concealed themselves about the premises, to wait the signal of their adventurous companions. An hour had passed away, and they began to entertain some misgivings as to the safety of Smallwood and his fellow preventive, who, by their previous compact, were to rejoin them, if unsuccessful, as soon as everything was quiet in the hostel; and all lights had long since disappeared from the front of the building. 
               While condemned to keep their cold vigil, the men could scarcely restrain their impatience, particularly as they could as yet see no prospect of succeeding in capturing the contrabandist; nor was the weather of that kind to inspire them with cheerfulness. 
               In this mood they were watching when Barney and the Mavis hove in sight. They made their way by the open road, passed the smithy, crossed the area in front of the inn, and reached the door. 
               "Who goes there?" challenged a preventive man, in a 
                     lond
                     loud
                   whisper per, and at the same time cocking one of the pistols he carried, to have everything ready in case of need. 
               "A friend!" returned Barney Nous, in alarm. "You are over fast wi' your barker, methinks. Sharp's the word with you, if you burn the government powder after that fashion." 
               "Is that you, Barney?" asked the old gipsy, coming from the stable. "Is that you. Barney?" 
               "It is, mother." 
               "And me also," said the Mavis. 
               "What do you here at such a time?" 
               "We thought we might be wanted." 
               "Twas well thought upon, my son," said the old gipsy. 
               "I should think so," said the Mavis. 
               "I have got news for thee, mother, will make thee glad when thou knowest it," observed Barney. 
               "What is it?" 
               "Watch is concealed in the inn." 
               "How know you this?" 
               "I traced him here myself." 
               "When?" 
               "About three hours ago." 
               "Art sure thou'rt not deceived?" 
               "Certain," returned Barney Nous. "Had you waited at the encampment a few minutes longer, I should have been in time to have told you ere you departed." 
               "I was right then," said Moll Purley. 
               "As my left leg," returned the Mavis. 
               Assured now that her prey was within her reach the old gipsy became equally impatient with her companions. She knew that Watch, driven to desperation, would not hesitate to defend his liberty, even at the expense of the lives of those who opposed him, and consequently became alarmed for the safety of Smallwood and his brother preventive. As the time progressed, she became more and more uneasy at not hearing the signal, till she wrought herself up to fear that Welling and the smuggler had discovered the preventives' hiding place, and dispatched them. 
               Filled with this gloomy thought, she at length unbosomed herself to her companions, who, seized with an equal degree of alarm, determined, without further delay, to arouse the inmates of the hostel, demand the delivery of their comrades, and, on their refusal to do so, to break open the inn, and recover their bodies, should their worst fears be realized. With this intent the old gipsy advanced to the door of the hostel. Her hand was already on the knocker, when Frontibelle seized upon and stayed it. 
               "What would'st thou do, mother?" cried the younger gipsy. "Bethink thee what thou would'st do." 
               "Revenge thy wrongs, girl!" exclaimed the stern old gipsy. "Thy destroyer is sheltered within. Would'st thou have me hesitate? No! I have sworn his destruction, and will keep my oath." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE younger gipsy, when she seized the arm of her enraged grandmother, to turn her from her purpose, looked in her face with an appealing expression, that well nigh disarmed the stern old woman of her malice. Moll Purley seemed to have lost all nerve. She stood listless as a child, overpowered by the fascination of the eyes she delighted in looking on. Her own eyes were irresistibly attracted to those of her granddaughter, and, allowing for the tracery the busy hand of Time had sculptured on her features, the hag, dropping her age for an instant, looked marvellously like the pretty Frontibelle. It was the mere reflex of expression. There was but a moment's silence. But in that moment thoughts and images of bygone years came thronging to her recollection. All that had been most dear to her, and had passed away, even from the joyous hour of her maidenhood to the sad, dull period of age, was brought back unto her mind. But with those thronging images came the remembrance of the smuggler's perfidy, and resentment revived within her breast. 
               The sudden interruption occasioned by Frontibelle had also taken the preventives aback, and they stood and stared with astonishment, verily believing that either the one or the other, the elder or the younger gipsy, was mad; while Mike, the Mavis, and Barney Nous were not the less surprised, and knowing the influence that Frontibelle usually exercised over the old camp-mother, looked at each other and winked, as much as to say, "I wonder what will come next." 
               "Off, girl!" cried the old gipsy, vehemently endeavouring to shake off Frontibelle from her grasp; but she clung with the tenacity inspired by a young heart that pants to save the object of its affections- 
               "Mother! Will you destroy me?" 
               "What I have sworn to do, that will I perform!" said her grandam, with an air of dogged determination. 
               "O! no, no, no!" cried the younger gipsy with emotion, clinging yet more closely unto her grandmother, and impeding her advance towards the hostel door. The old gipsy struggled, while she exclaimed- 
               "Do not seek to stay me--" 
               "Mother!" interposed Frontibelle again, with an appealing look. 
               "Do not make me mad, I tell thee," cried the old moman, vehemently. "I have sworn my purpose, and will do my purpose. Off, then, lest I also do a violence to thee." 
                
               "You will slay him!" 
               "I will." 
               "Do!" said Frontibelle, with a look of sternness, that likened her for the moment unto her old grandmother; as the sensibility she had conjured in the old woman's breast, had, a few minutes' before given her haggard features a momentary resemblance to the young and beautiful creature who was struggling to defeat her intention. 
               "Release me, then. Leave go, I say!" commanded the old woman, endeavoring in vain to shake off her grasp. 
               "Kill him with thy own hand, mother!" 
               "If such be thy wish, why prevent me?" 
               "Do not betray him!" 
               "Silly, foolish, doating wench! So he be destroyed, what matters it to thee or me how that object is effected? He has rejected you, and shall die the death." 
               "I released him--" 
               "The greater fool for your pains," said the old woman. "Had you been less handy in the affair, he would by this t me have been safe in Maidstone gaol." 
               "Have you no pity?" 
               "None!" 
               "Hear me, mother!" 
               "'Tis useless to plead," said the old woman, and turning her head, she made a sign for Barney and the Mavis to approach. "Release me from her grasp," continued Moll, in a voice expressive of the rage that possessed her, at finding herself so powerless in the hands of Frontibelle. "Don't harm her! I swear that nothing shall sway or stay my purpose." 
               Obedient to the signal of the old camp mother, the two male gipsies approached to do her bidding; and, such is the power of female beauty on the rudest natures, they assumed a kind of rough tenderness in their manner as they proceeded to execute the commands of their vindictive mistress. There was even a trembling delicacy in their touch; but whether this arose from the power which the young Frontibelle usually exercised over the tribe or admiration of her beauty, it had only the effect of rousing the old woman's ire. 
               "Dogs!" exclaimed she; "am I to speak twice? Release me from her grasp." 
               "You hears that, ma'rm Frontibelle!" said Barney, in the most insinuating and persuasive tone he could command, and making the manner serve the purpose of the matter. "You hears that, and knows whatever she commands must be done in spite of all I can do to the contraey; so its not my fault if I hurts you." 
               "C'up, miscus!" quoth the Mavis; "the ould woman won't stand no nonsense, so yer may as well submit at once-you knows as Barney an' I'ud do anything as is reasonable, but she says to the contrary." 
               "Stand off!" cried the younger gipsy, as the Mavis followed up the above touch of the tender by a gripe of Frontibelle's wrist that made her wince under his pressure. 
                
               "Take her away, I tell you!" said the old woman, fiercely. "Take her away! don't stand looking on like a pair of fools; but be quick-my victim shall not escape me." 
               "C'up missus!" quoth the Mavis, again; "you hears what she says." 
               "Mike!" cried the struggling girl. 
               "You knows as there's no use in obstropolousness," exclaimed Barney, putting on his strength. "What the plague's the use of all this resistance. It won't do, I tell you, so you must come." 
               Barney proved unto Frontibelle as powerful a mover as necessity usually is unto a minister of state, and the young gipsy, though very desirous of saying "no!" upon the present occasion, found herself reluctantly compelled to submit; and, after making some further stuggle to prevent her old grandmother's advance, was dragged away by main force, leaving Moll Purley mistress of the field. 
               "Beware, mother!" cried Frontibelle, struggling in the hands of the powerful gipsies who held her. "Beware! I have warned thee from betraying him: and look you repent not the act you are about. Death may, nay, must result; for in his despair he is fearful. The stag at bay is not more dangerous than the smuggler whom you seek." 
               "I fear him not!" cried the gipsy; "I am backed by those who'd take him. They have the will-the mind-the power-arms in their hands-and the vengeance I have sworn shall be accomplished." 
               The old gipsy now advanced to the door of the hostel, and she knocked so loud and long that it startled the revellers in the bar-parlour, roused the excitable mistress Bridget from the dreams of love and Hogsflesh, in which she was indulging in the ale-room, and reached the ear of Ephraim Clink second hand; for the effect produced on Bridget's eyes, through her tympanum, caused these orbs to glare in such a way as made a sensible impression on the goggles of the hammerman, who stared in mute astonishment likewise. 
               This was perfectly natural, as all who have observed the sympathetic looks in which deaf men indulge, will readily admit, but which the ignorant, or such as confound matters by improper and inconclusive reasonings, cannot readily comprehend without explanation, and who are, therefore, too prone to take the expression of a deaf man's astonishment for stupidity. 
               "The Lord save us!-fhat's that?" said Mrs. Bridget. 
               Though denied by his infirmity to hear her voice, Ephraim saw her lips moving, and not being able to catch a single syllable of what fell from them, stared as stupidly as before till a second peal rattling in the ears of the astonished Irishwoman, recalled to her recollection the deafness of her companion; and she blushed deeply from a consciousness that it was the remembrance of her own Hogsflesh which caused her forgetfulness on a matter so well known and obvious. 
               "Arrah, dthin?" said Bridget loudly, though still speaking to herself, "It's a born fool dhat I am to be thinking the likes av a poor wake crathur like Clink could be disarnin' anything I'd say to him, at all, at all; and it's better I'd be doin' to go into the parlor without spakin' to him and ax whether I'll be openin' the dure or not!" 
                
               Having come to this conclusion, which the reader will, no doubt, think perfectly natural and proper, Mistress Bridget trotted out of the ale-room with an energy that set Ephraim agape with fresh surprise, for knowing the good-looking, though somewhat matronly, maiden's relish for the creature-comforts of life, in which she, in common with her country people, was prone to indulge (Father Mathew, thank heaven! had not yet taught them to supersede whiskey, that paid duty, by water, that did not!) Clink looked at the half-emptied bottle with an air of wonderment, to think she had absconded under such circumstances, secretly hoping, however, she had retired for an hour from the same binn. 
               Bridget had hardly reached the door of the bar-parlour ere that the third assailed her ears: when, entering the room, she found the whole company assembled with something like alarm in their countenances. 
               "Musha, marm!" cried Bridget, addressing Mistress Susan Wylie, who looked pallid as death; "Musha, marm! and the Lord save us, did you ever hear av such a big noise as dhat?" 
               "Hush, Bridget!" said Mistress Susan. 
               Susan Wylie sunk motionless on a chair; while Jeremiah and Farmer Welling proceeded to demand the occasion of the violence of those outside. 
               "Open i' the king's name," cried the hag. 
               "The king's name, thou gipsy thief!" exclaimed the farmer, in wrath "the king's name! What dost thou do with the king's name-thou pest to every honest man's traveling?" 
               "Honest!" iterated the gipsy, with a sneering laugh. "I know thee, farmer. But where's the use of name-calling. Give me a crow bar, I'll have him out, or die for't." 
               A preventive man advanced; but the sturdy old woman, taking the crow-bar from him, forced it between the lintel and the door, and motioned him and his comrades to form a line aside, and be ready in case of any sudden rush on the part of the inmates. Summoning all her strength, the old woman used her lever, and with a powerful effort forced the door from the lintel. The decayed and worm-eaten wood prevented no sufficient resistance to her strength. It yielded, when Frontibelle sped across the area, and was again at her grandam's side. 
               "Let me not! Let me not, I say!" cried the old gipsy, making a desperate effort. The door gave way under her force; a whole pannel broke away, and exposed her to the full view of the party in the passage, when Farmer Welling fired. 
               The discharge of the blunderbuss took effect. 
               Frontibelle fell without a groan, ending her career in a last effort to save her early lover, while the old gipsy, staggering backwards, dropped into the arms of Barney and the Mavis. The noise made by the crushing wood, as it yielded to the force of the old gipsy, followed by the discharge of Farmer Welling's blunderbuss, while it roused the energies of Watch, who instinctively rushed out to mingle in the dan ger completely overcame the powers of Susan Wylie, who, tottering in an effort to follow her lover, sunk fainting on the floor, while Mistress Margaret, almost dissolving with fear, tried to rally herself sufficiently to restore her neice. 
               "I am wounded!" shouted Mother Purley. 
               "For heaven's sake, what's the matter?" cried the smuggler, on joining Farmer Welling and the landlord. 
               "She's down, Will!" returned Welling, pointing to the spot where the old woman was upheld by Barney and the Mavis. 
               The quick ear of the old gipsy caught the well known voice of the smuggler. 
               "Lo, there," she cried, addressing the preventives; "behold your victim!" 
               "Curses on the hand that drew the trigger," hoarsely gurgled the old gipsy; "and doubly curse-but why waste my few hours of life in mere words that kill not. Ha, ha, ha! I'll have revenge! Revenge! revenge! Frontibelle, my girl, thou art in the grave first; but thou shalt have a blazing monument! On! fire the house, lads! let none escape! Hold my body forward! The blood is choking me!" she concluded, while her frame shook in fearful convulsion. 
               The gipsies had already, on the command of their old camp mother, quitted the spot under the direction of Mike the Mavis, taken up a position in the rear of the house, where collecting, some dry fuel that had been stacked for winter use, together with a couple of tar barrels, and a keg containing about fourteen pounds of gunpowder, they proceeded to procure a light, and, setting fire to the wooden corridor at the back of the hostel, in a dozen places, stood rejoicing in its ruddy beams, as the flames wound themselves round and about the matter they were destined to destroy. 
               The shouts of the gipsies at the back of the inn reached the party within the hall, who were holding a confused council on what was to be done under the present aspect of their affairs, and whether, in pursuance of the urgency of the valiant Irishwoman, they should sally out, few as they were, and have a fight for it, or call a parley. 
               "Bridget's right," said Watch; "we may as well have a bit of a tussel for it." 
               The powder exploded, and half the wall at the back had given way and fallen. 
               Bridget had opened the door preparatory to sallying forth on their opponents, and the rock of the house occasioned by this explosion, compelled them, in their confusion, to rush from the building. Fortunately for herself, Mistress Margaret the moment before the explosion, had quitted the insensible Susan. 
               Arrived here, however, after a moment's recollection, she thought of Mistress Susan, and an exclamation from her lips apprised Watch of her danger. 
               "Where, where is she?" cried Watch, distractedly. 
               "In the bar-parlor, Will," replied Mistress Margaret. 
               Will, turning from the fight, rushed into the burning inn to snatch his best beloved from the death which threatened her. 
                
               The preventives looked aghast, while Mistress Bridget advanced on them, dancing and screaming like one bereft of her senses, and flourishing the poker above her head, while the appearance of old Clink's sledge-hammer and Welling's blunder-buss proved quite sufficient cause for the men in his Majesty's service to muster up the desperate determination to -- run away. 
               Meanwhile Watch, spite of the flames, which had already caught the grand staircase, and now invaded the room that contained the object for whose sake he had ventured his life, made his way forward. 
               He reached the bar-parlor; it was filled with smoke and the wainscot had already ignited. Urging his way forward, he reached the fainting girl. He raised his Susan in his arms, and made a desperate effort to return. 
               "Where's Watch! where's Susan!" cried Farmer Welling, when the preventives had retreated. 
               A moment's pause, and a dark figure appeared in bold relief against the ruddy flames that were consuming the hostel, and Watch and Susan were in safety among their friends. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               FOR a while the now houseless family stood gazing on the burning building, so long a home to them and theirs. 
               Jeremiah gave a mournful shake of the head, as if in acquiescence with the observation of poor old Clink, while Ephraim turned aside to check his deep emotion. 
               Sensible of the impossibility of saving any portion of the furniture, the family turned off the gronnd, to make their way to Farmer Ashford's, and crave a shelter for the night. Watch, now feeling sensible of the necessity there was for his concealment, bade them adieu, and made his way for Whitstable, where he found his old friend, Jack Eden, preparing to start with his boat for the great metropolis. Why should we enter on the petty details of private life. Safely arrived in London, Aunt Margaret and Susan followed him thither. The union of Watch and Susan took place, when they shortly after retired to a beautiful village in their native country, situate a few miles from the metropolis, and, having purchased a small estate, still live in privacy. 
               When Watch retired from the command of the schooner, unanimous acclamation placed the command in the hands of Ned Topman, and Timothy Clark again found himself upon the element in which he delighted. 
               While Watch was enjoying domestic happiness, however, Jeremiah Pardo got into a suit with the government, and lost a fine of two thousand pounds. This determined Watch to try another trip to get this sum back. 
                
               With Watch action speedily followed determination, and he was soon in the country beside his old companion, Tom Welling. On entering the farm-house, Watch found his friend the master's mate, while Timothy looked under his eyelids with the awkward bashfulness of a seaman, hardly daring to put in his oar. 
               An evening carouse, and Watch was again on the element he had lived on from boyhood. He felt his heart expand as he spread the canvas wings of his craft to catch the breeze that was to bear him to the Dutch Coast, to exchange the commodities he had sent on board, and return with a cargo that would secure him a profit equal to the sum he had lost by the government. 
               It was in the month of February, in the year 18-, at midnight, the schooner rode at her old moorings with a more valuable cargo on board than the smugglers had hitherto ventured on. The best part of the cargo was soon safely stored in the cavern of the Kentish farmer. They then stood out to sea, intending to return the next night and finish unloading. This was successfully accomplished, and Watch relinquished the command of the craft to Binnacle Jack. This worthy, with Topman, and the rest of the crew, made many succesful runs. But at last luck changed with them. A boat's crew from the smuggler, lead by Topman, was traced by a large body of armed preventives to the entrance of Welling's Hole. Topman, armed with a musket, flew to protect their secret haunt. He discharged his piece, and a terrific explosion followed, rending the cliffs and burying Topman and his ship mates under the ruins. It appears that Farmer Welling, unknown to Topman, had placed some kegs of powder at the mouth of the cave, for the use of their vessel; some of Topman's priming fell and ignited some loose grains, and hence the horrible catastrophe. The yawning chasm is still known as the "Cavern of Death!" 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
