
    ----CITATION----
        Warden, Harmer S.. Black Rolf, or, The Red Witch of Wissahickon .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8196
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Black Rolf, or, The Red Witch of Wissahickon 
            
               ' 'THE CHILD OF THE WRECK.
Very few novels have y~.t been written which combine more perfectly            )
than this does the exciting interest of a Sea Romance with the more
quiet and heart-touching incidents of Domestic Life. Althou~Ih
the Author prefers for the present to withhold his name from the pub-
lie he is destined, we venture to say, to take a high position among
the Romance writers of the present day. Many of the Sea Scenes
will remind the critical reader of some of Cooper's best productions,
while other portions-those of a pathetic nature-are scarcely exceeded
by Dickens huinseif. CONTENTS;
CHAPTER I.-" Happy Jack"-A storm CHAPTER XIII.-Takes the Reader to.
on the coast-The lost ship-The Un-  Ireland-Mrs. Tavistock and Lord
known corpse-The little stranger.  Hartley-A conspiracy.
CHAPTER 11.-Suspicions-Mrs. Tick- CHAPTER X1V.-I3aok to London.~-
icear's opinions-Mrs. 4Mack's Sur-  Lord Hartley and his friend-Mickey
snises-The adopted chuld-Polly is  on the carpet-Mrs. Tavistoek's machi-
happy.                             nations.
CHAPTER IlL-Time's changes-TM CHAPTER XV.-Emily and her mother-
disappointment-The  surprise-New   Emily's appeal-Hermother's duplicity
friends.                           -Emily starts for Ireland.
CHAPTER IV.-The sail-The capsize- CHAPTER XYI.-A storm on the Irish
Noble conduct of Capt. Clayton-Plot  Coast-A  double  shipwreck-The
and counterplot.                   wreckers foiled by Major Mordaunt-
CHAPTER V.-The uncle's plans for his  Pate of Lord Hartley-Anguish of Cap-
nephew's happiness-An interesting  tam Clayton.
rencoutrO-The Hopewell visitors.  CHAPTER XVlI.-Mr. Tavistocl~a1armed
5  CHAPTER VI.-In which nrasy mci-      -Captain Clayton avows his marriage
dents transpire necessary to connect  to Emily's parents-His despair-The
the Thread of the Story.           Captain returns to Ireland-Mickey on
the look-out with good news-The joy~L
CHAPTER VII.-The ]3ucephal found-    ful meeting.
Old Junk's opinion-A dapng ruse.  CHAPTER   XVIII.-Mrs.   Tavistock's
CHAPTER VIII.-The   stratagem  sue-  punishment-Joyful intelligence, and
~essful-The French Lieutenant indig-  repentance of the misguided mother-
nant-The   challenge-A~cepted  by  Matters look bright again.
commander of the Bucephal.       CHAPTER XIX.-Mr. and MrB. Hope.
ChAPTER IX.-The Racehorse sh6ws      well's grief at the thought of parting
her Colors-The Frenchman in a pas-  with Mary-She meets Mr.. Grey.-
sion-Captain Clayton wounded-The   Awakened hope-John's Jealousy.
Itacehorse victorious.        .  CHAPTER XX.-Captain Clayton's arri-
CHAPTER X.-The Racehorse arrives ~   val at Deal-Johli Hopewell's enthusi-
hugland-The dead officer-Who is    asm-Preparatiosi for the introduction.
it ?-Dreadful anxiety of Emily.  CHAPTER XXI.-Conversation-Benny
CHAPTER XI.-An interesting conversa-  Tulip knows more than was thought-
tion between Captain Clayton and Era-  He canes an excitement-Mary's Ia-
ily-Treachery where least expected--  ther found-Interesting disclosures
Mrs. Tavistock's note.           CHAPTER    XXII.-Reconciliation-The
ChAPTER XII.-Captain Clayton aston-  bahl-r-More Mystery-Captain Clayton's
ishes Old Junk-And marries Emily-  ~torv The characters disposed of to
her opinion of Old Junk-The Captain  their own, and~)t is to be hoped to ta~
for Portsmouth.                i'e'tder' ~ 5iti5f5(~tiO11.
sails ~rioe 2~ Ceiit~.
PHILADELPHIA:
A. WINCW 505 CIIESTMJT ST.
~ Uopi~ seiU &amp;~i Mail, on ~ of Price.


JACK WAID, TH~ BURGLAR,
oat'
TIJIE COBBLER OF GOTIIAM.
Intelligent readers uf the present day cannot have failed to observe, the sameness and
uniformity Qf'Ta9d~Tn ~ctinns, and they wili l~e refresh9dby meeting with a work entirely
orl~inal, which this i.. We all remember the shuddering sensations with which we turned
the pages of "The Three Spaniqrds" in ,ur .youthful days; how we were led on from
mystery to mystery, until our very souls were absorbed in terror; how crime and dark in-
trigues were interwuveu through the whole plot; how gloomy forests and old castles lent
ap~slling interest to late~sity of description, and t~se entire story impressed itself upon our
imagination~ so thoromighly, that we were actors as it were in the drama ourselves. Such
power and vividness hate we in the present work! No one who peruses "Jack Waid, or
The Cobbler of Gotham," wiU rise from it with anything but thrilling sensations, nor will
the story ever be effaced frtm his memory, but live on with him through after years, and be
a fact, so to speak, iu his existence. Some idea of the characters, and the plot 'f the story,
maybe anticipated from a perusal of the following table of
CONTE ~ TS.

C1~4PTER 1.-The Cobbler in his Stall-An
Unexpected Visi~or~-.Recognition-3ac k
and ~loh well n~et4-Metamorphose-The
Cobbler a Gentleman-A great Project con-
templated-Cockneyism vs. genteel Pat-
tern.
CHAPTER 11.-The Upper tI~en-The Bank,
e~'e Levee-Our old Friends in Clover-The
Bankers Clerk-Virginia  l~horncliffe-
Miss Agatha's Jewels-The Irishman falls
in love with them-Colonel Belleville-A
Suspicious Movement.
CHAPTER flI.-A dark Night and a daring
Burglary-The Treasure Vault-Success
of the Villeins-Qnieting a Policeman-
Return to the Levee-A New Party Scene
-triumph of Roguery.
CHAPTER IV.-Gotham Financially Dis-
turbed-Tise Di~covery-The )3anker and
his Clerk-The Mystarious Papers-Albert
and Virginia-Startling and well-founded
Suspicions.
CHAPTER V.-A new Character-The Fop
and the Banker-An awkward piece of
Business..
CUA1~I~ER VL-The Cobbler again in his
Stall-The Watch Stulfer-Tjie Landlord
collecting his Rent-A visit from thc Un-
known-The Plot thickens.
CHAPTER VII.-..Mandeville again visits
Virginia-The Singular B~quest - The
Cobbler and his strange Customer-The
Catastrophe.
CHAP~ER VIII.-..-Dividing the Spoilt-.The

Missing Casket-A Disagreesnent-Syanp.
tows of a Quarrel-Reconciliation-Ms
ltninvite&amp; Visitor.
CHAPTER IX-Cockney RoVe privatePro-
fessional Adventures-The Attractive Per-
trait-" Stop Thief"-Tammany Hall-
"Beware of Pickpockets P'-Operation at
the Bowery Theatre.
CHAPTER X.-The Banker and his Niece.~-.
The Innocent Suspected-The Cobbler's
Victim-Important Discoveries-Miraca-
loua~Escape.
CHAPTER XI.-A Scene in the Tombs.
CHAPTER XIi.-Tbe Tombs-Another Un-
expected Visitor-An Interesting Inter-
view-Still another Visitor -A Novel.
Scene.
CHAPTER XIII.-The Palace of the Pro-
curess-One of the Phases of Gotham Life
behind the Curtain-Price of Beauty and
Virtue.
CHAPTER XIV.-Dill the Watch Stuffer
visits Thorneliffe, who degrees to give him
$20,QOO not to expose him, and to swear
against Mandeville.
CHAPTER XV.-A brief Chapter, with a
Tragical Termination
CHAPTER XVt-TheTrialofMandeville-
Virginia Thorneliffe appears~ a Witness-
Mandeville acquitted-Colonel Belleville
Exposed-His sudden Disappearance from
the Court Room-Exciting Scene.
CHAPTER XVIL-Finnle.

BLACK 'BOLE;
p4
011, TH1~
lIED WITCH OF WISSAJI1CKON;
BEING. THE HISTORY OF THE.
BLIJE BEARDS AN~ SCARLET RIBBON~;
A TALE OF
SECRET CRIMES AND HIDDEN MYSTERIES
OF QUAKERDOM.

BY HARDER S. WARDEN:

Frttoe 2~ Ceix~s..

A. WINCH, Publisher, 505 Ohesnut Street, Philadelphia.
Elopieo 8ent by Mail ott receipt of price.

4

PI~1ILADELpHIA:
A. WJNCn~ 505 CHESTNUT STI~EET.

, 9.

10

5


A /{~/4J~

Ewuazo according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by
EUSTACE hERMAN &amp; Vow,
b the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United State~ in and for thin
Eastern District of Poiinsylvanio.

1~

'9

)

7

CONTE
'1

ChAPTER    I-Tsi~ SmX? m mu Ga&amp;as.

II-DIABOLWAL PLOT1NGS-TRAGW Ho~oiis.                ii
111-TuE Mwwin-Tuu ~ys~mous BIWRHA                    14
IY-PSOLATIOIf-THE HAUNTED Housi.
Y-OzrE or mu B'Ho~s AN!) ,HIS G'HAL-STEAXGN PROCEED.
lEGS AT THE THEATRE.                         21
01    ~        LIBERTINE MHROEANT AND~HIS PLIANT MENIAL,  27
"    YII~-Muu1~s Or 0111MB,                   2           29
VIII-.Tuu BED Wrrou ot THE WxssAiucxo*.-Tau Two' Ow
FRIENDS-MYSTERIOUS,                          33
"    IX-Tut LIBERTINE'S.STRATEGEV-"T4 BRIDE IN'THE CAGE i"
FOUL INTENT                                  36
X-Br~cg Bor~r, Tim DWARW Sww-.-THE DEED or Ho1~uoR, 40 ~'
X[-Tiun RED Wn~ou or WISSAIZIOKON-SEAROH FoR THE MISSIN(, 44
7   U   ~It-WoxAN's FRAILTY-A/HUSBAND'S JEALOUSY AND REVR~GE, 48
XIII-THE TANGLED SKEIN OP']~'ATg-EXTRAORD1NARY REGULATIONS, 54
XIV~-NOoTun~.I. MYSTERIES,                            62
"   XV-Tniu DEATH STRUGGLE,                               65
" XVI-S~oi~r or A FOUNDLING-ARREST OW A MURDERER,
XV1I-SEcRETS REVEALED,                                 73
ft XYIII-TuIc ~TOLER JEWELS-THE MAJr or (JRIME,           81
"   XIX-Ciwss FURPOSES-MtJRDER WIiL OUT,        .         84
' XX-Tii~ MYSTERIES oi' TIlE BLUE BEARDS AND SCARLET RIBBONS
EXI'LANZED WOEDERFIJL D~k1OUEMEET, 89

7

7.7
NTS:


BLACK

ROLE;

QR, THE
RED ~WTTCII OF WTSSAIIJCKQN;
BEING THE HISTORY OF THE
BLUE BEARDS AND SCARLET RIBBONS;
OR,
REVELATIONS OF THE SE~JRET ORIIE~ AND HiDDiN IIYSTERI~S
OF QUAKERIDOM~

CHAPTER I.
T~n SERPENT 1?J TH~ Gaiss.
It was in the year 18-, and the scene in
a lower apartment of a fine old mansion that
stood on a gentle knoll that overlooked the
clear sparkling waters of the Schuylkill
river.
The room was superbly furnished in accor*
dance with the fashion of the time, which,
if it yielded to the sumpt~iousness of modern
luxury, made amends in i(s substantial and
massive richness.

On an embroidered couch, beneath the
rich hangings of the window, thrq~igh which
stole the soft Eephyrs of a summer evening,
a young and lovely womaa reclined. Her
dress was simple, but costly, and was s~dmi.
rably adapted to heighten, if that indeed
were possible, the matchless graces and
symmetry of her figure. Her features were
exquisitely chiselled, though it was plain to
be seen, that years had not yet matured her
singular beauty.
The attitude of the fair girl-for though.
wedded she seemed no more-was one of
thoughtfulness arid dejection. Tears stoo4
in her large blue eyes, but ere the jewelled
drops fell from her fringi~~lids, she wiped
them away, andlooking out upon the garden,

9

O


8                       THE BLU:
the fresh balmy air toyed with her silken
locks and fanned her lily-like forehead.
Presently the door suddenly opened,
and ere the lady had time to rise fr im her
recumbent position on the couch, a nobles
lo~dng young man enteredd and cast his eyes
around the apartment.
Quickly perceiving that he had intruded
upon the privacy of a lady's boudoir, he
drew back, and with a profound obeisance re-
marked
"I crave your pardon, madam, for having
ventured here unannounced. I was inform-
ed, by the servant, that I should fln'd Mr.
Walsingham within."
"He is not here, Mr. Thornton; but,
doubtless, is in the library, the room adjoin-
ing on tha right."
"Thank you, madam," replied the. young
gentleman, and, he retreated backward
from the room.
Scarcely had he done soA and closed the
door after him, when a side panel was with-
drawn, and an elderly man, of athletic per-
s6a and strongly marked features, entered the
room. It was Harvey Walsiugham, the
older of the three brothers of the veteran
merchants of that name. He was no~ the
sole successor in the business of his father,
whose extreme, old age had induced him,
several years previous, to retire from the
active scenes of commercial life. The junior
Walsiugham was himself now in his fiftieth
year, and hnd remained a bachelor until only
a few month~f the time of wlmich we now
write.
flis step 'was haughty; his countenance
wore an habitual expression of sternuess ; his
movements abrupt; his voice harsh; but in
his general aspect there was a certain dignity
inseparable from the habit of commanding;
and a courtesy not devoid of grace, that when
he choose, could secure affection as well as
respect. When the iron will and the majesty
of physical strength can bow to the loveli-
ness of woman-the enchantress is usually
more proud of her conquest than when she

E BEARDS
has subdued only intellectual power. It was
with this pride that Mary Walton loved
Harvey Walsiugham, and accepted him as
her husband and friend.
"Who left here, but now, Mary 7" inquired
the husband somewhat abruptly. "I thought
I heard some one speak, and the tread of
steps, as I entered."
"Yes, Mr. Thornton was here in search
of you," replied the young wife.
"ThorntQn I" repeated Wal,~ingham, bend.
ing his keen eyes on his wife, who looked up
into his face with loving confidence. He
added quickly: "You h~ive been weeping,
Mary! Has Augustus Thornton, my account-
taut, seen the wife of his employer in tears."
"Nay, Walsinghani," said the young wife
softly, casting down her eyes. "I was think-
ing of my dear mother and my earliest home,
and I could not but give vent to my feelings
at the moment you entered, my husband."
"Always pining afterhome," muttered the
iron man, impatiently, "Can not my love
and wealth supply the place of your parents
and their humble home? Really, I begin to
weary of this childish fretfulness and per-
verseness, Mary, I would have you under-
stand."
"Be not offended with me, my dear hus-
band," whispered his beautiful spouse, throw-
ing her fair arms around his neck, and lean-
ing her head or his breast. "Be not angry
with me. It is but iiatural that I should
grieve when I rernenher the scenes of child-
hood and the fond crossings of my loving
and beloved parents.~~
"Mary," said the merchant, sternly, though
h~ pcrmittted and returned the caresses of
his wife, "Mary, deem me not selfish or cx.
acting. Your parents have other children
who remain with them to cherish ~nd com-
fort them in their declining years and infir-
mities Not ~o with me. My father is very
aged, and past the years of social companion-
ship. I have therefore only you to lo-~k to,
to bring me solace and joy, amid all the anx-
ieties and turmoil of the plodding business

LA j

I
A
A
,~ ~A
At?
9 ~ As
C)
A)
I
I

AND SOARLII
world. Yet I have long since realized that
omit feelings are incongenial and thai my
deep absorbing love for you has from first to
to last, been but cold and indifferentlyre-
paid."
"You are cruel to doubt my love for you,
Walsingiiam. You have all my affection,
save that which the instincts of my nature will
have me reserve for the loved ones who gave
me life and being.~~
"Nay, Mary, I did not doubt your love for
me to the full extent your naturally' cold
temperament will allow. But it is not the
kind of sympathy and love I Something
more ardent and burning, would more befit
the impassioned impulses of my bosom.-
But, after all, Mary, you are not to blame.
Mine is a wayward heart, and it will need
all your tenderness and the best strength of
my own philosophy to bring pence and hap-
piness to my soul."
Theconversation between the husband and
wife, was interrupted by a servant knocking
at the door, and bringing a letter to the man-
tsr. It seemed to be on matters~of weighty
mo~ment. His brow became flushed, and then
pale, as he read its contents. Mary watched
his countenance with eager anxiety. Die-
missing the man who brought the letter, by
a sign, Walsiaghani turned to his wife.
"It is even worse than I thought, Mary-
Nothing but disaster on disaster. Another
ship lost, with her rich cargo, from Lyons.-
A few more such losses and I shall be ruined
for ever. I am called to New York, with a
view of a settlement of salvage, and ~nust
leave this very evening. The coaches leave
at nine. Ah, again in tears I But cheer up,
Mary-your tears only serve to forbocle fur-
ther troubles and perils. Take a turn in the
garden, and n~eet me here presently, prior
to my departure on this pressing business."
Walsingham sought the apartment of his
aged father~and remained closeted with him
for some considerable time.
M~antimehis wifesummoninglda Walton,
her cousin, a lovely young lady of nearly her

lTRIBBONS.                         9
*1
own age, who happened to make a visit of
afew weeks to the Walsiugham mansion, they
both descended to the garden, andsocui steod
before a natural arbor, formed by interlacing
boughs, over which crept many vin~e laden
with golden and crimson flowers,
A picture which there presented ttsel4 e~r-
rested the attention of Mary. She touched
the arm of her cousin, i~nd they approached
softly nearer.
A boy of twelve years of age, of uncom-
mon beautywas seatedon the ground, writ-
ing in a small portfolio or album.
His face was fair as that of a girl's, but
shaded now by the long clustering golden
locks, which floated in rich profession about
his brow and over his shoulders. As, at in-
tervals, in the ecstasy of his eom~osition,
he raised his dark flashing eyes upwards,
with a wrapt expression. on his suuw-whitQ
brow, he might have formed the sculptor's
model for the young Genius of Poetry.
Mary Walsingha~i gazed admiringly a few
moments upon her young nephew, for such
he was, the only son of her husband's bro-
ther Louis, and now an orphan, beneath the
roof of his grandfather and uncle Harvey.-
Approaching him unperceived, Mary laid her
han~ on his head, and in a voice of playful
sweetness, said
"Ah, invoking the Muses, I perceive, my
nephew Conradin?"
The boy started up, let fall his pencil and
blushed deeply, but recovering instantly
from his embarrassment, he answered:-
"Yes, dear Aunt, I was trying to write a
little ode to Spring, butthough I know I have
poetry within me, I cannot now utter what I
"Time will give you suitable language for
your thoughts," said his Aunt, smiling and
aftectionately caressing him. You are yet too
young, my ~Jonradin, to trouble your brain
with attempts at poetry."
"Oh, no, dear Aunt. You know lam now
more than twelve years oldand that is not
too young to be a poet, I should think. See,

4'

i

0

i


4

10                      THE BLU:
here Is a whole book full of my verses, and
if you will not laugh at them, you may see
my portfolio, Aunt Mary."
"That's a good dear nephew. Oh, no~ I
will nOt laugh at them; I have no doubtthe
efl'usions ai~e all quite clever, indeed, Conra-
din."
"Well, then~ take the book; but I will not
stay and ha4e ~ou langli at my silly love
pieces."
~[e bounded tl*ay ashe' spoke.
"Hc it a noble youth," said Mary~ to her
cousin Ida.' "Misfottune has early ripened
bit years; bat I fear his pfrcOi~ieiotIs intellect
is beginning to tell disastrou~ly o~ hit physi
cal powers."
"Yes; he is growing just 'like his poor
brother; apd perhaps a similar tvil destiny
awaits him."
Mary read torah of the verses, and praising
the genius of her young relative, gave the
manuteript volume to Ida, and returned to
the house to await the parting interview with
her husband.
Ida penetrated deeperinto the embowering
shades, and presently reached a spot where
a white marble fouatain gleamed amid the
emerald foliage, and shot up a crystal column
t1~water, Which fell again in refreshing sprays
on the shrubbery around. Here she flung
herself okra rustic seat, covered her face With
her hands, and became absorved in a reverie
eta prolonged and pai~fril character.
At length ahestrove to calm her agitatiQn
and wiped away Some tear-drops that had ga.
there in her eyes.
Preaentlya footstep Was heas-d, in the walk
among the' trees. She started up, suddenly,
and met the gaze ofAgustus Thornton. Her
countenance grew'pale as death and the next
instant was suffused with crimson.
Thornton seemed deeply abstracted, and
did not notice the agitation of Ida. Bowing
coldly to her, without speaking, he was pas-
sing along.
"Hold, Augustus! A sword with you, if
you please," exclaimed the young woman.

E BEARDB

lie halted, and cautiously but rather stiff.
ly inquired.
"What is your pleasure, Miss Walton I"
Like an ice~boltto the maiden's he~t, were
those few chilling words of Thornton. A
tremorrtrn through her frame, and the blood
forsook her cheek.
"NothAig-nothing!" And motioning
him to leave her, retreating backward, she
sunk again upon the rustic acat.
Thornton approached her, not knowing
what to make of' the lady's singular beha-
vior.
~'What is the matter?" he asked, alarmed.
"Has anything happened-.happencd to
U No! eo I leave me-begone," cried Ida,
vehemently.
"Nay madam. You do not seem to be
well. Permit me to assist you to the house."
"I require not yourkassistance. Your fur-
ther presence isd~tnst~ul; leave me, Isay."
Thornton could only obey her command,
wondering what to make of the singular cir-
cumstance. He had never spoken a word to
her before in his life, and was perplexed to
know whether she labored under some tem-
porary spell' of insanity. He however, in-
stantly resolved to enter the mansion, and
direct some of'the female domestics to go to
the assistance of the poor demented creattire,
if such she really was.
"Has it come to that?" murmured Ida,
bitterly, assoonas Thoratonhad dissippeared.
"He was a. anxiety for her safety. I see it
all now; I am nothing in his eyes. 'I' am
worth only icy w~~rds; but my cousin Mary,
he loves as-nh-he should noel Does the
return his love? Oh, God! Madness!
Madness! I will not think of that-think
of that!"
Starting up, and concealing her face in her
scarf, the unhappy girl promptly sought the
seclusion of her own apartment.~

I
/
/

91

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.

ill

of his pulse, any immediate cause of alarm
on account of his 'health. I reerelyallude
CIIAPTER II.                 to this now, my sweet one, that during my
absence, Ire may reeeiv~ even a fnlldr t~rea-
sure of. your attention and affe~tioa your
DIA3OLIOAL PLOvvIrurs.-Tnioro Honnons. kindly nature has ever yet yielded, however
warm and daughterly have been t&amp;ie sympa-
thies of your heart for my venerated pa-
Mirtv WALSINnIKAM, ou returning from rent."
the garden into the house, was received by  "Dear, Ifarvey, my husband, believe sat,
her hubband in the same parlor where she I regret to hear of the slightest ailment of
had reclined when Augustus Thornton had our good old parent. Trn~t me~ my whole
'A~mewhat abruptly entered and found her heart and Soul shall be devoted to hiawel-
in tears. There was now not the slightest fare and happiness."
t~aee of gri~f Or sorrow on her lovely connIe-  "Yen, my Mary, sweet ohe~ I feel th~t
na'nCe. The balmy zephyre of evening had my blessed and venerable father will red~elVe
refr~shOd her spirit, arid the lively sally every comfort and indulgence which his
* with her little poet irephew and the perusal fechienets sasty squire. Forgive me, fcr I
of his effusions, had lightened her heart of was wren~ even to hint otherwise. 'I mast
itasadneas, ~f *hatei~er character it was, re- must tear tnyself away now, my ~rstty idel.
~'tored the didmond-like brilliance of hey eyO, Another s*ejt kist, tri' beloved, and th~~'-
and that liftoyaticy l~f step which was a na- fareniell 1"
taral element of her peculiar grace and   "Far&amp;-"
*beaut~r. Even the sternness habitual to the The word remained but half spolt~ 'on
'obkrzitenance oi' herhusband appeared ditsi- the lovely 'woman's lips. There i~ese up
torted'to one of tenderness and trust, within her 'bosopr an Ocean of tende*~st
Walsinghriin, after eatessing his lovely emotion, 'which arowneri erery syliablOelie
wife, remarked: would have uttered in ~tartistg frossithe he-
"i[ ha~e 'hut a Word snore to 'add, 'try ing to whom she had pledged her wedded
Maiy. My businesss abroad is extremely truth and love.
urgent, 'and this Anry instant I tarist be  H~r hUsbhhd was goire.
~6ne. My 'dear old father I find quite fe- The young'wife, on regaiaing 'her eowsspo.
ble to day, and "I ~s ~oiug to ask your sam, bruShed the pearly drops from her
:kiudest'solieitirdSs in his behalf duringg 'my silken la~shas, looked through the suite of
absence; but~this you would naturally do, oi lowe~ parlors, bustled about some donreallo
your *a sympathetic natur&amp; Yet, my duties~ saw every 'thing in aee~risrg (irder,
love, I know ir6t 'why it is, a presentiment of 'and' retired for the ievein~. She did 'aM
'coming evil' has 'w~igbedrquite oppressively neglect to lookinta t~r~ roomofthoaged Wal.
on "'~ 'spirits ~n u~e~ard'to him fOr Sortie singhasn, bet seeing ~hat he was at ease end
dayspast. Hehaslongsindepassed'the grand in a sound slumber, ahe shtidowed the lamp,
climacteric of life, and like the fruit 'that closed the door softly, ant entered her own
'tins mellowed long, at any moment, is liable sleeping apartment, " vhich immediately ad-
to fall to the 'dutt of the grave. He has felt joined ths't'of'her ver~erable fathOr-in-law.
krimSelf'Uo infirm that he has already retired She began to lrnrob~ for the night, but pie-
to his conch for the eveeing~a procedure seutly her 'eye~ rested ona note, whieli lay
quite the reverse of hisnatural habits--al- on the tioilct~tabIe beneath 'her drestiug
tho'igh 'I have s~ot'd~tected, by the beatings; mirror. She found It addressed' to he~#~t

r

11'


12

THE BLUE BEARDS

and unsealed. She quickly tore open the I shall not grant Thornton's request. Nay,
snowy folds and read                   how dare he suppose that I would so far
forget myself to hold an interview with him
"I have that to communicate to your pri- even in the presence of witnesses, libertine
vats heal-ing which may bring pain and as he is said to be, much less in a secluded
anguish to your bosom. Yet it were better place, all alone , at an unseasonable
you kne~v the truth at once, ore trouble arise hour, and in t he absence of my husband?
from which there can be no possible extrica- Vile miscreant! to have the impudence to
tion.~ I do not wish to excite unnecessary enter this bed-chamber, and leave this an~
alarm in your heart, but of this I am assured, saying missive! Oh, God! have I indeed
there are treachery and ingratitude where become that common vile thing of suspicion
there should be only the fullest confidence and guilt, that even the hireling creature of
and love. I dare not add more at present. I my husband should venture to ins u~ me in
have haunted your presence all the afternoon, this manner! But he shall rue hi4.,temer-
but could find no opportunity to cSnverse ity! He shall be punished for this ~utrage
with you privately. I would ask for an in- against my peace. Harvey-yes, my hus-
terview with you, evening the sanctuary of your band shall know all, know of his baseness,
private chamber, but fearing that our pri. and this pollution of my boudoir by his vile'
vacy might be intruded upon b~ prying per- and stealthy. presence' Yet, ~yet these
sons, and desiring to spare your fame from strange stories that have come to my ears
the possibility of scandal, let me treatt you of my husband's -libertinism may be too
to meet me in the lower arbor of the garden, true, after all! and who is there to know of
when the town clock shall strike the mid- his faults so well as his trusty servant abd
night hour. clerk, Thornton! No, no! I will not, can-
Feafr nothing, I will await with anxiety not believe~ the wicked tales!. Thornton, in-
your coming. Fail not! He lives and still deed, may have that to communicate wl~ich
wears you in his heart's heart! Be warned sl~all remove the load of sorrow from my
in time, and you are saved. heart. Whatever the case, it ~ann~ot be
THORNTON."    worse than the suspense, the doubts and
fears which envelop my soul in anguish and
"Oh, Heavens! What ns~r trouble is this gloom! 'He. lives, and still wears me iii
impending over my head ? What have I done his heart's heart!' Oh, God! too late I too
that I'm marked as the thing ofauspicionand late! He can be nothing to me now. Yet
distrust!~ What is heto me now? Am I not I would learn of him, and Thornton shall
the wife of Harvey Walsiugham, and does tell me all.. Yes, I will meet him in the ar-
he imagine that I would hold clandestine bor-but not alone. Conradin shall accom-
inte~course with him now, whatever the first pany me. I will conceal him among the
yearnings of my heart, and however it might roses. and-and he shall hear and bear wit-
need the anncL~ting bali~i of reciprocal and ness of whatever may transpire, and be my
rel'rebhing love! No! I shall keep myself protection should danger spring of this noc-
intact of r~proach. As the purest of virgins turnal meeting !"
I gave him my hand, and as the discreetest of Such was Mary's wild and conflicting so-
wives so shall I ever remain faithful tomy liloquy-such the perturbed condition of her
-marital vows! Thornton! What intelli- feelings, and the strange and Inconslateut
genj can he have of the long absent tin- nature of the sentiments of her young and
~~no?. No, no-.--tshall not be tempted immature, yet guileless bosom.
to s*ervo from mystrict duty to Wa!singham. She thrust Thornton's letter into her bo.

I '\

AND SCARLI
som, re-arranged her dress, and went below
to the drawing-room, in search of'Conradin,
where she was informed by a servant that
he had gone out with her, cousin Ida, on
an evening visit to one of the neighbors-
Scarcely, however, had she left her chasm-
her, ere the tall figure of a man closely dis-
guised, stole from beneath the drapery of
7 the sleeping couch, and passed out cf the
apartment, muttering as he went-
"The stratagem works admirably! The
poor silly turtle-dove shall not now escape
the fowler's snare I"
"And I will thwart &amp;Ioa both! I will
speal~ daggers t~o his heart, and infamy shall
blast her fame for ever I"
This enigmatical language was pronoun-
ced by another figure, having the semblance
of a young female, of medium height, also
closely disguised, who followed quickly in
the steps of the first intruder who had just
quitted the boudoir of that fair young wife.
Mary again returned to her chamber,
threw herself into a large rocking-chair, and
awaited patiently for the hour of interview
with Thornton.
But time passed by on leaden wings.
Drowsiness overcame her senses. The pop-
pies of Nox were placed to her eye-lids, and
she slept-as purity may ever sleep-calmly
and sweetly, whatever the phantoms and ter-
rors of the nocturnal season.
When she awoke from that long and
blessed slumber, the sun was already up and
shedding its rich golden tints over the face
of nature. The birds among the trees of the
garden were singing their matin hymns,
while the zephyra of morning were laden
with the fragrance gathered from the many
thousand sweet dew-bathed flowers that
bloomed around.
She instantly remembered the proposed
assignation with Thornton, and though it
was broad daylight, she hastened to the ar-
bor that had been designated, not indeed
with the expectation of meeting him, but
pith some vague idea she would there find

iT RIRBONS.                        13
some token~that he had punctually awaited
her coming.
She walked swiftly along, brushing the
dew-gems from the grass and flowers as she
passed. to the place of rendezvous. The
snowy shafts of the fountain presently
shot up among the green shrubbery, and she
beheld with pleasure the liquid crystal that
fell in showers from thejet d'eau into the
basin of the fountain. due bound more and
she had entered the garlanded retreat of the
~rbor near at hand.
#Ohhorror of horror! the sight that greets
ed her eyes. There was a pool of fresh hu.
man blood on the floor of the arbor, and all
around traces of a desperate encounter be.
tween a number of individuals. The egl~n~
tines and honey-suckles lay trailing in blood
and dust. The lattice work of one side of
the arbor was completely torn away, and
there was a trail as if some heavy body had
been dragged through thegrass, over a bed of
violets and along the graveled walks for the
distance of fifty yards to the water's edge of
the Schuylkill, when all traces of the vio-
Ignee in this direction were lost.
Mary uttered a wild scream of alarm? ned
fleeing to the house, fell into a terrible se-
ries of convulsions, wl~ich rendered her un~
conscious of all that transpired for several
weeks afterwards.
Meanwhile the report of the terrible and
mysterious tragedy was carried fair and
near, and led to a thorough search of the
premises for some clue to i~s enactment. A
fragment of. a man's eoat-the hood and
scarf of a female--and a large dh-k ktiife
crimsoned with gore-were picked up among
the grass and flowers, but no human body
or bcdic~. were discovered. The piece of
coat was identified as a fragment of one
usually worn by Augustus Thornton, the
scarf and hood were the property of Mary
- Walsingham, and the dirk knife that of bes
husband.
The Mrangest part of all, however, was
the simultaneous disappearance of Ida

4

ci-,

4


THE BLUE BEARDS

Walton, Thornton and Walsingham on that ary, and the ground was covered to the deptl~
eventful sight. of several feet from the accumulations o1
The iuf4ercnce was palpable enough that snow during the season. Rude Boreas
some horrible assassination or series of mur- however, was n~t content ia what be had,
ders hat been perpetrated, but who the cal- already achieved in blocking up the streets,
prits and the victims, was veiled in inscra- but om~ this eventful evening proved hiniseli
table mystery. a "blustering trailer" in legitimate verity ot
Thornton's letter was found on the person the allegations of the sailor's nautical song.
of the young wife, and though she explained, The snow fell in flakes as large as fish
on her recovery to .eonseiousness, all she scales, while darkness, profound reigned over
knew of the events of that night, the world, the faq~ of nature and 'the great city' of
was fain to believe her an accessory of the Penn.

tragic lsrrors, ir not time wanwa z~nng 01
shame.
~nto what fearful meshes of crime bait she I
now become involved I Let these truthful
pages reveal them all.

CIfIAPTER III.
Tan MInw~Fs.-Trn1 MYsTunmous BIRTH.
NEAR the corner of Front and Dock streets
stands a two-storied brick house, painted
yellow, which was once the residriura of a
well-known Swede, and built by him more
than a century ago. At the time of which
we, now write, it was occupied by an elderly
Irish woman, ~hc worthy widow Cathicen
O'Harra, and her daughter Norah, a
sprightly, intelligent and rather pretty erca-
tt~re, just passing from girlhood to womanly
~xisaturity. The lower part of the house was
used as a fruit and herb shop, which was al-
tcrna~ely attended by the widow and her
si~pghter, or, more correctly speaking, gener-
~y by the young girl, since the mother was
4qqently.ealled from home, to officiate both
asia1 midwife and nurse, as well in the aristo-
cratic as the plebeian circles of society of'
th~ city audits environs.,
It was the list night of the month of .Janu-

It was about the hour of midnight, and
the widow sat alone at a taole, regaling her-
~~self with a bountiful supply of a broth ~i' a
savory and appetizing description, as~vas
evident from the odor of onions that filed
the breeze, and the rapid manner in whi9h
the blp~ bottom of the capacious platter 'my~s
made to appear and disappear before the
ambcm~dexter passes made with a hag.
spoon between the dish and her rather lar~e
mouth. 11cr little gray eyes sparkled with
unusual vivacity; hoc round, fat, good.m~a-
tured face expressed the e~ctreme of s~tis
faction; while her portly stomach shoved
by its swelling and heaving, gratefulpess t~hat
it had been duly nourished and comforted
for that occasion at leact,
Now she sat in her big arm chair, h~r
haumie crossed over her lap, the embodime~mt
of good nature arid contentment. A tra~n
of pleasing thoughts arose in her brain ~,
and she began to reflect upon the 4elighis
of her home, and a shelter in such unple~s-
sant weather. She fervently thanked Hem~m.
yen for the many fair prizes she had dra4a
in life's lottery of good and evil, compared
with the waterman or mariner, for instance,
who for the paltry pittance must needs coi~-
front all the hardships and perils of such a
night of storm and cold. 'Poor, kind soul!
She quite forgot that her own vocation pf
bringing tender humanity Into the iyorl~,
was likely to expose her to tl~e howlings or
the pitiless' storm, with those whose
were yip6n the surging flood. '   hom~s
I

/ ''A
1
I

0

14

wun~eu conspiracy to mare ncr lincomtorta-
ble, there caine rushing round the corner
such a gust of.wiud, that it seemed as if a
legion of wolves or devils had scented their
prey and started off in howling pursuit. The
old house shook to its foundation, and the
frightened dame was usable to tell whether
the moss-covered rooflog had been lifted
up and hurled to thestreet below, or whether
the world was seized with a fit of convul.
sions, in the clattering din, and breaking,
and tearing away of window shutters, and
other missiles which were hurled so violently
about in the battle of the elements and PIn.
vian gods Even the apoon and soup-dish,
thetable, and allher chairs appeared to have
been placed under the spell of St yit~g or

I and death, I will na quit me bUssed home
this evening. I can't 'tind all the aiIm'
wives in the city, amd it's no concern of
mine if the triuppery wee brats bqes all a
perishin'~ and dying to av a drop or two of my
own excillcat medicine' this spiking cold
night, I ii~een."
This speech was more prudent than chari.
table, and was made in the spleen of the mo-
ment rather from any natural waspishness of
her disposition. Indeed the wia-wife had aj
very tender juicy heart, particularly when her,
Sympathies were rightly touched, or 'when
h~r bosom exporieneed. the mellow kindrmes~
usu'ally inspired by a drop of gin orwhjel~ey.
"Nay, nay, goody granny! D,~u!~t. he s~
mmnchristian.hearvcd) and keep UR '8~iy@~iisg

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.
Nay, her train of pleasing reflection was Merry Moines, and danced and slittled nwa~
almost iri~tantly dispelled by sounds. which most lustily in sympathetic harmony to tht
her ready instinct and quick ear'realised to be music of the storm without.
a summons for her to go forth upon some  The poor midwife, however, deemed it most
errant of humanity, love and mercy.   prudent to remain in ~her bed, even undet
There came a loud knock at the door such imminent peril, and resolved to risk
which went directly to the heart of the dame, being buried beneath the ruins of her old
who but a moment before had lulled herself dwelling before she would~ venture forth what-
into the belief that she was in the enjoyment ever the urgency of life and death, am$ the
of peace and comfort. That signalrudely peril of such mother and labe that stood in
reminded her that she was at the mercy of need of her professional sqrviccs on that oq.
every midnight comer, whether her services casion.
were required by the side of the aristocratic  The knocking was incessant and morO
couch of the affluent and proud, oi~ at the vigorous, if possible, than ever. The widow
humble pallet of rags and straw, in the could stand the horrid din no longer. She
/
dreary abode of poverty and shame,    flew to the window, threw up the~ sash, and
She however did not seem inclined to goout in a voice even more loud and screeching
on such a dark and stormy night, for she than that of the storm, cried to the two met
quickly extinguished her lamp, and threw below:-
herself upon the bed br the side of her  "By the iver blessed saints and the howly
daughter, whose slumbers remained the while Virgin 'specially, wat 'ad ye av wid the
undisturbed. But the applicants for admis. ould woman the likes ov myself, this. devils
5iOfl5~ who were two men, dressed in the garb own night, whosoever ye bees, a pmillin' the
of sailors, in tarpaulings and heavy monkey. hoose over me head adown there at the
jackets, finding their appeal unheeded, be. door."
gan to thump with the brass knocker of the  "'Taint no use of grumbling old iu~lly-
door, at such prodigious rate, that a com- wife; but come down directly and receive
plete demolition of the ornamented panels our message," said one of the men.
was fairly threatened~  At the same time, as  "Och; it's in a hurry ye tees I I faix, I
it' the Storm Fiend himself had joined in a tells ye, if ye av come on business of life


LIT                     A
V

'THE BLUE BEARDS

and freezing in tue storm. Come down,
thaL'~ 's good mother ye are, and we'll warm
our toes and taste a little of your stone jug,
afore 'we speak to you about the little busi-
ness we~ bate bore with you, the night."
"The divil take the both of yees, I cares
nothing' if yeas does perish in the street,
murderin', thavin' villains that ye are I Bad
cess to yees, a comm' and troubhin' an ould
rather like myself, and breaking' the rest of
darlint Norah, makin' her look pokin and
pale as the sick paple that comes to n~e for
nursing and my illegant medicine "
"Open the door instantly, you obstinate,
cross-grained old Jezahel, or by the lord
we'll bang - down the house, and bury up
your old hull in the snow bank,' where the
devil can only find you at the day of judg-
ment.-Open the door, I say, and don't1
stand there at the window jabbering and
screeching away,. like a cussed old fool that
you are."
"Och, hone I Graceless spalpeens thaves
of the world and villains of the black pit I
are yees come to further me I Saint Patrick
and the holy Virgin atwixt myself and har-
am. What is it yees come after? If any
poor rather is sick and bed-fast, its come
in yecs may and welcome. But yees must
bideabit till I av put onmy uppercoatto keep
but the cold av the even. Wirra asthru I
The dirty set of rampaging, drunken black-
guards, I av no doubt both of'yees be I"
She relighted the lamp, fastened down
stairs, and suddenly opening the door, the
men who were leaning' against it to avoid the
cutting wind as much as possible, tumbled
over each other into the narrow passage,
and lay sprawling on the floor
"Devil take the old hag for capsizing us
in this way," muttered one of the strangers,
as they both quickly rose to their feet.
~~Och, ye villains and decatelul foxes of
the airth, is id yees wouldd break into thn
house of the ould woman, an' stale, and kid-
nap, and further myself, and comethis divil's
own night o' evil dade; an' no blessed body

about in all the streets, to keep myself from
trouble and bar-em."
"May I be keeled-hauled if it ain't the old
wife herself," cried one of the men. "Fear
nothing, good woman, we are neither mur-
derers nor robbers, but friends who want you
to go a!o~ig with us on an urgent matter in
your line of business. Come now; you see
you must rig yourself and make sail with us
at once, ma'am. Your services are required
over the waters; and as for the pay, don't be
a trifle uneasy on that score; the fine lady
'who wants you will make it all right, or I'm
a devil-damned sinner. Get, ready, quick,
do you hear 9 The boat is a bouncing about
thereaway in the dock, waiting our retur~
It grows late and ~ve've not a moment now
to loose."
"Indade, I tell yees again I'm not going
from the house this ugly night of the devil,
whatever may betide. Do yees think ~d
trust meself in yees rotten boat, iv the fine
lady yees spake aboud 'ud give me all the
gould in the world."
- "Well, well, if you will not go with us by
fair meats, you shall by foul! Avast there
meesmate! Wemust board the old catamaran
at~d bear away our prize at whatever the
broadside from the enemy. Seeing that we
have premised the Commodore to bring
along the saucy craft to safe anchorage un-
der the lee of his handsome - little frigate
thereaway.
The waterman probably meant by the
use of such nautical language, to intimidate
the midwife, and make her the more readily
accompany themon their nocturnal business,
of whatever nature it was.
The men promptly seized the woman, and
thrust a gag 'into her mouth to prevent her
cries. Then smothering her in a heavy cloak
they had brought along with them, they
lifted her up bodily, bore her to Dock street
slip, and sousc~l her down somewhat violently
into the bottom of a yawl that l~iy close un-
der the stern of a merchant vessel that filled
the dock. They put their oars in motion,

/

.1
R
I'

ANDSOARLETRII~nONS.
and made their boat shoot likean arrow over ~nd subiuitted in the best grace shewas able
the water, in spite of the turbulence of to what could not be prevented.
the waves, lashed as they were into foaming Away dashed the boat over the water, for
madness by the fury of the tempest.   more thau an hour. The ~woman could not
When they had got out into the middle of tell whether they were going up or down ~e
the rivers one of three men who now ocen- stream, or making a circuitous route to tli~
pied the boat with mother O'Harraretnoved Jersey shore. Suddenlythe boatwas p~zshed
the gag from her mouth, and expressed much to the beach at a place where no house of
regret that her stubbornness had rendered any kind was to he Se5n. A sleigh, to
such cruelty necessary, to make her accom- which two horses werc attached, stood in
pany them on a mission, as he alleged, of waiting on the beach, attendedby the driver
great peril, if not distressing death. well-muffled up from the cold
The poor woman's lamentations were Tho midwife was helped into the convey.
loud and wild, and mighthave been heard far, ance, and ohe of the boatmen, and the driver
away over the watery waste, even above the dashed rapidly away over the deep snow. In
holdings of the storm, s~at it became ne- less than'anotber hour, the midwife was lifted
cessary to threaten her ag u with the afflie- out of the sleigh, and 'conducted up a fii~ht
tion ot the gag, before she would cease her of some dozen steps into what seemed the
outcries, hall of a large mansion. Here she was
"What are you- afraid of?" said the boat- handed bver to the care of a female servan~t,
swain, in a rough and angry voice. "Our who led her through number of apartments
craft is as staunch a one as everdanced over into a large and comfortable dining-room,
the waves, and there is not the slightest dan- heated by coals, that glowed withthe intensity
ger of old-sea dogs like ourselves ever going of a furnace in the grate. The bandage was
down to Davy Jones' locker, while afloat in a then removed from her eves, and she was
puddle like the Delaware. Hni~k me I Do you invited to be seated and pa~tako. of a glass
suppose we are going to make a prizeof your of some stimulating cordial, which would
old hull uiyhearty? or that we mean torobyon warm her body and cheer her heart after her
of your paltry trinkets, or even your honor, if exposure to the wild waters and blasts of the
indeed you have an~of that commodity, night.
which is best known to yourself! Pooh, As soon as she regained her vision from
pooh! When we fish we drag our nets in the blinding effects of the brilliantly lighted'
other waters, do you hear? Now be quiet hall, she discovered that the room wei~ fur.
and easy. When you have finished up the wished in the most sumptuous manner..-~
job nicely, you are wanted for, we'll bring There were gorgeous Turkey carpets, mug-
you back safely to your home and if you nifleent mirrors, tapestry and curtain-hang.
don't get splendid pay for your 'trouble it'll ings, and furniture of the most rare and cost.
be because the devil has lost his liberty and liest kinds of woods.
*urned Shylock. Believe me, grannymother, ,She had scarce finished her survey of the,
I'll saving at the yard-arm or dangle with a room, before an elderly man entered the
broken neck on a gibbet, before any harm apartment, and greeted her appearance with
shall come to a hair of your head; but I'll a slight bending of his head. His hair and
have to trouble you to tie this handkerchief whiskers were white as the driven an w, and
over your eyes for a bit of a spei~; arid I'll bristled nut in such ample sjundance as to
warrant me you'll see all the better for it, 'hide nimost altogether his thin saffron-hued
irhen it shall be faken off again." ' face. ' His small black eyes peered, out from
The'wom~,n t.eni',~eJ from head so foot,' beneath 'the shaggy eyebrows with arkoen-

)


18

THE BLUE BEARDS

4
f I
I [6
14
~

F

/

ness of glance that penetrated to the depth She was conducted to the chamber of the
of the woman's soul, as if he sought to di- invalid, who lay on a conch in a loose and
vine the train of her most secret thoughts. simple uudi~ss, with her face covered by a
He was dressed in a dark role dehalnbre, black veil, in such a way about her head and
made of silken velvet, trimmed with fur, and neck, to leave no trfice of the contour of her
looped across the breast by stout silken figure or to indicate her station in life.
cords. He wore a scull-cap, also of black A few minutes only elapsed when an in-
velvet, and a pair of buckskin mocassins, fant was ushered breathing into the world.
richly ornamented in the usual manner of The old man stood near the bedside and nar-
Indian devices and ingenuity~ rowly scrutinized her every movement un-
'~Woman !~, skdd he, in a stern and til the child was horn, when he grasped her
commanding tone ~ your fame as a arm, and by a significant gesture to her inti-
~kiIlful accouchier is known and appreciated mated that she should strangle it on the in-
by me; and believing that I might rely stant.
on your services, whatever the emergency, Mrs. O'Harra, however, was not the cruel-
I have brought you hither. The manner of hearted wretch to readily take a hint of such
your conveyance to this place may appear diabolical interpretation, and she looked
somewhat strange; but the reasons for such around for the conveniences of clothing and
proceedings must remain locked within my so forth necessary for the new-born creature
own bosom for* the present. I would have which she was accustomed to see provided
you, therefore, to remember you are not to among the humblest of her customers. In
breathe a syllable of anything that has occur- the present instance' however, everything ap-
ed in this business already, or which slyill peered to be wanting.
yet transpire this night, beneath my roof, un- "Take up the brat, and follow me," said
der the penalty of certain death for the slight- theold man, with a savage expression of coun-
est violation of the secrecy now imposed on tenancy. The midwife cast a61shawl about
you. You have arrived here not a moment the infant and followed the ol~ man into an
too soon. The lady for \vhom your services adjoining apartment.
are required, is even now in the throes of "You will now understand what I require.
labor. Her frame is very delicate, and her Take the child hence. Do whatyou will with
life must ho preserved, even at the sacrifice it, and let me never see or hear of it again.-
of the weak arid worthless thing to whom Here is gold sufficient to silence your tongue
she is about to give birth. Act promptly- and conscience for ever. Awayl"
spare the mother, and you shall be suitably The old man rung a bell- when two snuf-
rewarded." fled men entered the apartment, placed a ban-
The woman was horror-stricken at the in- dage again over the woman's eyes, and con-
timation that she was expected to commit ducted her forth to the open air. She was
murder, in destroying the infant's We without conveyed to the river side in the sleigh,
hesitation or compunction of conscience, and placed in the boat and taken back to her dom-
could only remain motionless and speechless icile, with the precious human burden, which
an her seat.                           she held warmly in her bosom, alive and per'
"You hesitate, woman I Dare you refuse feetly well. The waterman then quickly do-
do my bidding, madam ~                 parted without being identified by the dame.
The dame aturmured,                    The midwife was completely bewildered
"The blessed Virgin helping' me, I'll be af- with all thatoccured. She possessed no clue
tow doin' directly the best I can for the poor to the mystery of the business, and nothiiig
sick rather, your worship."           by which the parentage of the child might be

I

:1
~

~1

AND SCARLI
by which the parentage of the child mightbe
known, save a small signet-ring, which th~
mother amid all her agonies had contrived to
press upon the attentionof the midwifeunper
ceived by the hoary villain, as all the circum-
stances of the affair led her to believe he
was. On the under rim of the ring, she die-
covered the letters "31. IV:" which mother
O'Harra quickly comprehended might oneday
lead to a d~scovcry ofthe mother, and afford
some explanation of the singular nocturnal
transaction connected with the infant's birth.
The midwife moreover saw that the child
was a lovely cherub creature, and finding
that the purse of gold she had received from
'~he old man was amply sufficient for its sub.
port for several years, on consultation with
her daughter Norah, they came to the coW
clusion to tenderly watch over and nourish
the child as theii3 own, whatever of' good or
evil might betide its destiny.
There was another reason for the adoption
,f this humane course, as will be duly recor&amp;
ed at the proper time.
CHAPTER IV.
DESOLATION-TUE HAUNTED Housn.
Fifteen years had passed since the night
of the tragic horrors-in the garden of the
merchant Walaingham, without further clue
having been obtained in elucidation of their
terrible mysteries.
The lovely girl Ida Walton, and Thornton
and Walsingham, all disappeared on that
occasion, and nothing had ever been revealed
to give positive assurance of either the death
or survival of the whole, or any one or more
0f the parties.
The supposition, however, generally pre-
vailed that Ida aid Walsiugham had both

~T RIBBONS.                         19
become cognizant of the contemplated assig-
nation between the young wife and the mew-
ebants clerk, and in their interference had
be~onie involved in some inexlicable denon-
ment of the circumstances.
Idamost probably, in some fit of jealousy
of Thornton's seeming partiality for her
cousin, had determined to anticipate the clan.
destine interview and disguised herself lA
some portion of Mary's clothing for sych
purpose; while, on the other hand, Wftlsing-
ham laboring under some suspicion ef his
wife's unfaithfulness might have surprised
Ida, mistaken her for his wife, and Thorn-
ton in the arbor at the midnight hour, and
sacrificed them both in the wild phrenzy of
his jealousy and revenge. This preparation
for a departure to a distant city on business
was thought to be a ruse, the better to ena-
ble him to watch the conduct of his wife and
Thornton, both of whom he had, for s~n~e
cause or other, learned to diatrust. This
opinion was strengthened when it became
known that the ships supposed to have been
lost had arrived safely in the harbor of New
York.
Yet he might have fallen in death by the
hands of ThorntOn, in the reneontr~ of the
evening. He was wealthy, and a man
much respected and esteemed in the social
and commercial community. Was it likely
he would abandon his aged parent, then al-
ready dropping into the grave-surrender
his business-and leave his treasured and
every cherished association of the old family
mansion, under any circumstances whatever
-even had he detected his lovely young
wife in criminal relation with the seducer ~r
libertine paramour? Would he not rather
have appealed to the laws in repudiation of
a faithless wife? or had he even been the
destroyed of the wretch who sought +o tamper
with his honor), would he not~have boldly ap~
pealed to the virtuous sense of the eoiamti.
nity for aequitts.l of all censure and blame
in the matter?
Whatever were the facts of the ease, as


(

I
'}i
1~
4
I

THE BLUE BEARDS

connected with the sudden disappearance of tous for her happiness and welfare, in slew of
the several pert~os on'that eventful evening, the young lieutenant's death and her moon-
it is certain that a withering blight cajne genial union with 1,V'alsngham. There was
upoa the name and family of Walsiegham also something in the voice, manners, and
from that hour. The young wife was regarded general appearance of Thornton that strongly
as the vile thing of shame, and aeon after, reminded Mary of the seamen lover to whom
by the force of public opinion, was compelled her first maiden love had been givon, and be -
to retire from the gaze of the censorious fore she was aware of it, a magnetic sympa-
world..2~none knew whither.            thy of interest andfeoling had sprung up
There Were, however, antecedents in her between them, although it had been of the
history, that might well have~given grounds purest and most platonic description.
for the foul calumnies that were heaped upon Ida Waltonwho had been residingbeneath
her character. She was the daughter of im- the roof of Walsirigham, for a few weeks, as
perished but respectable parents. She a sort of companion for her cousin, probably
had early pledged her troth to a young lieu- might have discovered something that she
tenant in the American Navy, who appear- considered improper between the young wife
ed to be fully worthy of all her heart's sym. and the handsome clerk; and wishing to
patties and affections. But he was called avert the consequence likely to grow out of
abroad in the service of his country; and the entire estrangement of Mary's feelings
there caine at length a report of his death, from her husband, may have desired an in-
in a duel between himself and a brother offi- terview with Thornton to induce him to a line
cer, at a certain naval rendezvovs in the of conduct that would not compromise the
Mediterranean.                        fair name of her relative or bring scandal
The beauty and charms of Mary Walton upon the respectable house of Walsingham.
soon, therefore, attracted the attention of the Or she might have become enamored of
wealthy and accomplished merchant, Harvey Thornton herself; and resolved to win him as
Walsingham. who pursued her with his ad- her own lover and husband, in the advances
dresses, and succeeded in so placing her fa- she would have made to him, when she met
ther under obligations to him of a pecuniary him in the garden on the evening he
nature, that she was constrained, in order to so coldly repulsed her beauty and love. Poor
save her parent from further embarrassment, girl! Had she indeed become the victim of
to give herhand where her affections had never her own stormy passion, and had she fallen
been centered. Thus, the young and r~man into the pitfall she had unconsciously been
tie maiden of seventeen, became the wife of made to dig for another.
a cool and calculating bachelor of near fifty The elder Walsiugham did not long sur-
years of age; but though he was a worthy vive the heavy blow that had fallen upon hi&amp;
citizen, a man of large fortune, and able to name. He was buried with all the honor
make his wife the mistress of a home of and respect ever due to old age and a long
luxury and ostentation, it was never the con- life of probity and christian virtues. The
genial and happy home for her. She became young lad Conradin, became the sole heir to
wedded to mammon, and the sweet perfume the great wealth of his uncle and grandfather
of her heart ivas accordingly literally given but as he had still several years to pass be:
in waste to the desert air.           fore he should attain his majority, the pro.
Thornton had discovered her secret at- perty was placed in the hands of trustees,
tachment for another, and realizing that that while he was sent abroad to complete his
gallant lover of Mary's was a near dear friend education.
of his ovn, he became more and more solici- Prom this time7 the old mansion remained

~4

'I

unoccupied-its roof became covered with seemed animt~ted with the oneidea to witness
moss, while the trees and shrubbery grew up the performances, and decide each for him.
in such wild luxuriance around as to fairly self, which of the two dramatic artists ~as
screen the remarkable old pile from observa- entitled to win the highest histrionic honors.
tionat the roadside. At length strange re- It is nOt to be wondered at, therefore, that
p6rts were put in circulation concerning the Balty Sowersby, the young Spring G~&amp;rdeit
place. Remarkable noises were alleged to butcher lad should take a passionate interest
be heard in the saloons of the mansion at the in the general dispute. Balty was one of
witching hour of night, as if some infernal the b'hoys, in the truest sense of that term-
orgies were being consummated by superna- even from the ~-rown of his Florence glossy
tural agencies within it's walls. Then it was manufactured hat, to the soles df his sturdy
asserted that a form of a lovely female dress- cow-hide boots, fashioned by that venerable.
ed in virgin white rainments, and having agrarian an working man's friend, St. Cris;
long streaming hair was often seen pcrambu. pea Young, hose cobbler's tel was then
rating the garden all alone at an unseasoi1a~ located on the ba ks of Pegg's Runorwhatie
bLe hour at night, while the wild cry of now the neighb hood of Sinth and Buttoa~
"murder" had not infrequently appalled the wood street I' course, it were needles~to
stoutest hearts of persons who had passed state that e was regular in his attendance
along the road, or lingered in the vicinity of at all the es within his knowledge-that
the ~ld Walsingham homestead, he generally had a hand in drawing "the
It finally became noted as the luz~~ted claret," alias "blood," in every "rowdy
house, and so remained for years sacred from muss'~ that oceurred-"--tliat he wore embz'oi-
all intrusk~n upon its precincts-at once an dered braces, or no braces at all, according',
object of mystery and dread.           to circumstances-turned itp the bottom of
his pants nocturnally-that he wore his hair
short behind and displayed in front those
two long demi.curls of the "Jakey" style,
commonly denominated soap locks-that h~
CilAPTER     V.             chewed tobacco unceasingly, swore empha~
tically and had a constant predilection for
rum, redilannel, long nines, and exhibition.
Otra or THE B'Hovs A~4D HIS \G'HAL- of the "light fiamgastie toe," with his~g'hnl~
STaANGE PaoCEEDINGS AT THE THEATHE. at the dance house in Eight ~street ab6ve~
"GalIowhill."
Balty had determined to treat his g'lial?,
Much excitement prevailed in the drama.. and to take her to the Arch to see the play.
tic and sporting circles. "Spartacus" was The name of this damsel Was Sacak Buiser,
to be played at the Arch, and Forrest and but for short, commonly went by tli~ name
Scott were to appear together in the drama oft' Gal Buster" or "Sal Buster."
as the rival or brother Gladiatots. The dis- Any body who had occasion to pass do'ivit
pute ran high as to which of the two was the that well-frequented ~thorougiifare krtoi~a t~
better actor. Both were in the full flush of j the world in general, and to Quakerdom. in
their early manhood and possessed physical particular, as Second street, in th8 vicinity
powers and intellectual qualities of a very of Christ's Church, betwixt th~ hoi4 of skt
similar stamp, so that both had their especial and seven in the evening, might perchance
partisans n'il~r.,igh thoir popularity was ha I liii optics gladdened by our heroine Miss
ktettt eveiily balanced The wh~'l LIJWI, Sarah Buls ~ n~ she came forth from the

-

2o

AND SCARLET I~IBBQN8.

*


N V

22

THE ?LUE BEARDS

milliner shop of Miss McK.inney, in company Christ's Church, on an April cveuilng, abou~
with a lot of oLher "gallus-lookiug" appren. half-past six, intently gazing into the door of
tices to the bonnet-making business like Miss Mc~i~ny's millinei~ shop. ]~Ie is wait-
herself. ing for the appearance of the belovect one,
She was now seventeen, possessed an ex- the veritable Sally Bulser herself, with whom
tremely pert but rather pretty face, while he had antecedently arranged that night to*
her figure was short and plumpish. She had visit tie Arch, and there indulge in theatri-
black eyes, and dark hair, worn in plain cals and tenderness.
bands in a way just to reveal the outer cor- ~ Guess she's putting' on her bonnet, and
mere of her eye-brows. (The slight wavy ap- fixin' her hair. What a blamed time galls
pearance of it, by the by, was produced by do take 'bout that, sure 1"
artfully plaiting it over night, and brushing Allowing the cigar smoke to issue from
it out in the morning.) Her bonnet was the right hand corner of his month, in a
small and made of pink silk or satin, and spiral column, Balty settled his "plug" a
worn in a position in.clining more to the per- trifle more over his right eye, twisted tighter
pendicular than to the horizontal. She was one of his ear locks, and resumed his nina-
partial to pretty boots, (sad is the mental and ings.
moral condition of any of her sex who is not "Galls can't never not fix their hats, with-
so) todre&amp;ses of violet colored plaids, to visits out other galls is by to look at 'em. Oh,
to Macarms Gardens on week day evenings- h-c-c-i-I I"
and Sunday trips out to Dehaupre's at Co- This latter exclamation was uttered in a
lumbia bridge on Sundays, where her beau meditatively impatient manner.
were' wont to regale her with ice-cream7 pea- "Almighty cussed work this 1 Might have
nuts, candies, catfish and coffee, especially brushed up a game of dominoes with Pluck,
the latter, if the excursion extended to Bel- and Beefy, wish she hurry up them are crul-
mont Cottage over the Schuylkilb We say lers, any how."
she was partial to all these things, and par Here a small dog ran between Balty's
ticularly to her loveryr Balty," in which re- legs, and fur its dogmatical assumption is
spect there was certainly a reciprocity of suddenly propelled, by point of boot toe, into
fealiug on his part.                    the old hat and clothes cellar, of Pompey
Now let us here confide to the sympathiz. Freeman, a venerable gray-haired darkey,
lag reader, the important fact that all the who was astounded at the sudden entree ot
preliminaries necessarily attendant to their the canine and confounded with his musical
"getting slung" together in fhe holy bonds "ki-bi's," altogether he bore the matter with
ofmatrimony, baa been perpetrated. The a philosophy and silent anger worthy of his
only reason why- they were not married was aged 4Ind ebony color, in the presence of the
simply because Balty had four months yet to impetuous Balty.
serve of his apprenticeship before he would "Here she is by gaily thunder,"
be qualified to kill equal to Keyzer, while Miss Sally, on the instant, issued from the
Sally herselfwasindustriously disposed toget milliner shop in all the glory of "scarlet
her a few fancy prints made together in the ribbon," Tartan shawl, and other fixings to
"baby line" that would likely be neede~1 in- match. Her quick eye spied "her beaW'
less than a year after the nuptial knot had Icaning against the lamp, and starting for-
been tied: ward, she grasped his arms with a loving
These preliminaries known, just fancy you squeeze, slightly depressed her right eyelid
see Balty, with cigar in mouth, hands in in telegraphic farewell to two or three young
pocket, back against a lamppost, in front of, companion s~op girls, and bounced away

V
p

AND SCALE
with Balty, to the said young ladies interest,
and her own and her lover's delight.
"What's acted, Balty ?" asked Sally, as the
young man produced from his hat a five-
inch square piece of "taffy," or molasses

cand presented it to her.
"Well, it's a damned hard sort of name
and I most forget it; but it sounds some-
thing like ham and tates. Glad-em--yes, I
'Glademater,' that's what they call it, I
b'leve."
I "I hope it ain't low, Balty I you know I'm
down on anything as is low and vulgarY'
"Guess we'll go inter second boxes~-
That's high enough, ain't it," demanded the
literal Balty
"Oh don't be a foo-foo, Balty," said the
giri playfully. "You knjw what I mean I"
The young beau puffe'~l a little smoke
among the cherry colored ribbons, and re-
turned to the subject.
"It's a grcat drama, Sal ; and has four com-
bats inter it, and six bloody murders, and
Forrest and Scott both get killed in it."
"Law me! that's real nice, I declare."
"I was told all about it 'by Beefy, whose'
bec~ twice to see it, and he said there was
beside a sailor's horupipe dance, and a heap
of comical futand odd things, mixed all up
with Long Tom Coffin and Blue-eyed Susan,
I'd have you know, Sal."
"That's a first-rate piece, Balty, you'd be-
lieve it.'~
"Taint nothing' else, I seen once afore.
~ ~lo it while ye're young,
Forwhen you're old you ca-n-n't~"
"Be quiet, now, Balty; and don't be
sassy," interposed Saral~, as in the exuber-
Bnce of his animal spirits, the lover began to
make certain heel and toe demonstrations
on the pavement, in a very vigorous manner.
"Can't help carry on a little, Sal," replied
"Balty; when we're mar-"
"Here, now, stop your foolia', or i'll git
[~          real mad right off, so I will. Let's go long,
decently, Balty, or you shant ta1~e me to ibe
theatre, at all, I tell yer."

T RIBBONS.
She placed her hand on his lips to pre-
vent a reply-squeezed his arm in her's
tightly-Aooked up in his face in a smihugand
coaxing sort of manner, and-went sailing
along in the direction of the theatre.
In less than ten minutes the lovers are
comfortably see~ted in the front of the second
tier of boxes. Here Balty took a further
supply of candy, together with a pint of pea-
nuts and several big apples from his hat
and dropped them into Sally's lap; after
which lie spread out the play bill on tb rail*
ing before his girl, and gave himself up com-
pletely to the enjoyments of the evening
The overture is over. The whistling, y~l-
hugs, crying out of "Boots ~ stamp-
ings, et center, are dispelled by the bell ring-
ing and the rise of the curtain. All eyes are
on the stage, and all attention fixed on the
soul absorbing drama. Of this immortal
play, it were ~eedless for uS now to speak-
further than to say that on the present occa-
sion, it was appreciated in tb~ highest de-
gree by Baltyand Sally, and the rest of the
audience, until an unexpected occurrence
took place, which suspended Balty'~ voci-
ferous applause and rather ruffled his tens.
per for the rest of the evening~ It was this.
At the close of the first act, the dcor of
the box in which the lovers were seated wa~
opened, and a strange gentleman, of' foreign
appearance, entered, and crowded himselt'
into the pew immediately in the ~r of
where Sally sat. Now this alone was not an
uncommon o' startling circumstance-e~ii
when coupled with the facts that the strai~ga'
gentleman had a large bushy moustache of
extreme stiffness, green spectacles, and a
long cadaverous face overshadowed by a pro-
fuaion of long hair; but when this strange
gentleman met the casual glance of Mhi
Sally Bulser, and returned the same with a
smack of his lips and a significant wink, the
blood of Balty was up to near fever heat on
the instant.
Possibly Sally had not deserved such im-
pertinent, not to say solucious attention.-


24

THE BLIJE BEARDS

Possibly she had. Sure it is, at the expira-
tion of less than five minutes, Sally felt con-
utrained tt~1oQk round again. Balty watched
her movements, and turned round his eyes
also, and caught the foreigner linking and
smacking his lips again at Sally\
"Say, old hos~ I" interfered Ba y; "Gin
us none of your 'pertinence, or I'll lamm yer
right off the reel, see if I don't."
The strange gentleman gased at him wth
a vacant stare, gros~ned 'i~io1ently. dived his
hands into the bottom of his snuff~colored
surtout, brought up a brass tobacco-box, and
with a most condescending air of patronage,
presented it to the indignant apprentice
butcher 1n4.
"Hell 1d'ye think iwan'tbaeco," exclaim.
cd Balty, "don't know english, I s'pose See
here-" and he4elegraphed Miss Sally with
his finger-?"None of your cheek here I D'ye
understand ?"
The strange gentleman opened his mouth,
tapped with. his fore finger on the bridge 'of
his large aquiline nose, ~winked again, and
held forth his snuff-box to Miss Sally Bulser.
The young lady went spontaneously to a
fi~t of laughter; but Baltywas speechless with
indignation; while the strange gentleman
looked inexpressibly delighted.
Fortunately, further colloquy was inter-
rupted, by the curtain rising f~.r the second
act of th~ drama, leaving Balty now no other
alternative but to "cuss" internally, which
he most decidedlydid. .His attention could no
longerrdst upon the playing an undivided man-
ner, and his eyes. frequently turned threat-
eningly upon the strange gentleman.
At length he detected him devouring in a
ravenous manner, a large apple, just like one
of those he had placed in ~ally's lap. He,'
darted an Othello-like look at his girl Her
face was red----very red, certainly-yet her
attention certainly seemed entirely fixed on
the play.
"Say Sal"-whispered he, "Did you gin's
Sally gave him an energetic push, and cx-
claime4 impatiently, "Shut up, do"

Balty did as he was commanded, it but
was plain to be seen, he but nursed his wrath
to keep it warm, till the end of the act. At
length the curtain fell, and the explanation
came,
"Don't kick up a mussy Balty, and I'll
tell yer. Promise ?"
"Well, I won't," said Balty, hissing out
the word between his clenched teeth.~-.
"Now-"
Why, he put ~iis hand over and took the
apple out of my lap. I didn't see him done
till he, got it."
"Put his hands, into your lap! I'lls-
"Oh hush up Balty. See, I don't think
he means nuthin'-he ain't looking this ere
way at all, now ?"
This was true. The strange gentleman
had relapsed into a deep reverie, or profound
sleep, we don't know which, in 'which peace-
ble condition he remained till the play was
over.
The rage of Bully had vooled down alto.
gather ; and however much he delighted in
any fuss or fight, he didn't like to show much
of his pugnacity before his sweetheart Sally~
He gallantly assisted her to place her s~iawl,
and thrusting her arm under his own, they
passed down the crowded stairs, an4 stood
on the pavement outside. The strange gen-
tleman stood at the side of Sally and thus
addressed her
"Vill a you permit-a-me to wispar in your
ear von vorde, Madamoiselle-.one ver leetle
woivl - immediately, vat you call right
away ?"
Balty's rage kindled again instantly.
"DL.m yer iinperdence, you forr'n bug.
aboo," roared he, "what d'yer mean, say?
Maketracks while yer hide is good, or I'll
smash yer right off, I will."
"You are ver God d-m rude sare I Vill
you have dat, den ?"
He uttcrc&amp;a shriek as never before came
out of mortal throat, and darted away with
the speed of lightning.

9

AND SCARLET R1BflON~.

25

-1
I

p

TilE LIBERTINE MEBCIIANT ARLINGTON.

IN QUEST OF. NEW ADVENTURES


)

f
I
C
C
I
5
S
t
C
S

/

4

A ND SC0A RL ET R IB BON S.'                           27
Balty staggered backwards a few paces, crew of one of his ships to servo in such ca-
and fell over into the gutter, exclaiming :--- pacity.
"i'm stabbed, ,Sall Murdered 2"        The devotion of this man tQ his master
was most strange and extraordinary, even
had it been observed on a bosom suscepti-
ble of the liveliest gratitude, or when spring-
ing of some strong mutual attach ments of
CHAPTER VI.                 individuals for each other. This was far from
being the fact, if the merchant's public treat-
--:--ment of the menial, was the test of any mu-
tual affinity between the twain. Indeed, Ar-
THE LIBERTINE MERCHANT AND HIS PLIANT .lington ever appeared to hold him at an ex-
MENIAL.                 treme distance, and would never allow the
slightest approach to famniliarity, either in
conversation or address from him-a course
The merchants of Philadelphia, as a gen. so entirely opposite to his urbane and kindly
erad rule, in all times, have constituted the disposition towards all others with whom he
most worthy and respected class of our fel- was wont to, hold intercourse, that it began
low citizens ; yet now and then, there have to be generally noticed and talked about,
been discovered those who masked their vii- throughout the city. Meddlesome persons,
lanies and crimes undethe guise of' an hon enough there were, in sooth, to interrogate
orable Christian deportment. Among these the subordinate in'regard to the relation in
was an individual, whom we shall designate which he stood to his superior ; but to all
by the cognomen of' Griswold Arlington, such interrogatives the menial always spoke
highly honored and respected by all classes in the highest terms of his employer, as the
ef citizens, on account of his supposed integ- best of men and masters, Similar hints were
rity, fair-dealing and general uprightness of also frequently thrown out before the mer-
character. He ways at the time of which we chant in regard to his taciturn treatment of
wrrite, one of the leading shipping merchants a'servant so devoted to his person and inter-
)f the'ecity, and carried on an extensive trade ests, but to all such invidious remarks he
iot only with most of' the European cities turned only a deaf ear, as if he comprehend-
Sat with all the principal ports of China and 'ed not that he was the object of censure on
he Isles of the South. In such traffic and the part of a single human being in the
~ommerce he had amassed a very large world.
ortune-indeed, was regarded as among the The house that Arlington occupied was
wealthiest men of Quakerdom. ,amehg the largest and best in the city, and
Arhlington had married early in life, but being most sumptuously furnished through-
uis wife dying in child-bearing, at the birth out, seemed at once the abode of elegance
f her first infant, this oily daughter was and ease. It wras the only dwelling of the
trusted to the charge of a third party, and neighborhood that assumed a modern ap-
emoved from the parental roof for- ever. pearance in contrast with those of the street
He, however, continued to occupy the man- around. It was of' brick, but always kept
ion into which he had first taken his wife pointed in a bright straw color, as if purpose-
~fter his marriage, living entirely alone, with ly to render it the more conspicuous, or aris-
he exception of an elderly woman, who offi- tocratie, among the, dingy red and black
iated as his housekeeper, and a man-servant, brick tEnements that lined the street.
Person whom he-had s lected from the It was situated near the corner-of P'enn


~H1~ BLUE BEARDS

and Pine streetS. The bells of St Peter's
Church at tti~ corner of Pine and Third
could he distinctly heard of a Sabbath morn-
ing, calling the merchant Arlington to his
devotions there-.--a practice he was never
known to omit; being regarded as a mem-
ber iC high standing, nay, as a very pillar

4

"Pardon-pardon, Mr. Arlington. You
appeared to be sleeping longer than your
usual wont, and I entered the room to close
the window blinds, to shut out the damp
evening air, sir. That was all-I assure
you, that was all, sir."
"Then when you had done so, why did

of that venerable tetnple of Jehovah.  you not instantly retire again? Answer me
Yea, this Mr. Griswold Arlington would that fellow !'~
regularly go up to the house of prayer-offi- "I, know not what it was, sir, that made
ciate in the ceremonies-end partake of the me linger here. It seems but a moment
holy sacrameat-...aud return to his own mair sinCe I came in, yet I know I have been herd
I'                aba in the vicinity, there to give hitnself up a full hour I The moon shone so brightly
to the indulgence of spiced wines, rich viands, out on the trees in the garden, and the air was
sensuality and crime; yea, hewasan exem. ~o full of the scent of the sweet flowers, that'
plary man in the eyes of the world, but in I rested my arms on the sill a moment be.
the eyes of God, a most consummate hyp6 fore closing the blinds-and-and fell asleep
Crite, libertine and villain I myself, sir-and that is the whole God's
It was a Sunday evening; and the mer. truth of it, sir! You know Mr. Arlington
chant reclined on a downy couch in a chain- that I Vonld-.~'
ber of his house that served both for his      , dl, iiever mind what you would or
brary and bed-room. He had returned from what you wouldn't have done! Perhaps
church that day and partaken of a most surap. you would like to murder me? Perhaps
tuous feast, washing down the savory viands you have already robbed me? Hark ye, vii-
with a full supply of sonic very fine old Port lain! I begin to fear you are no longer
Wine. He then retired to his library, threw trustworthy! You have repeatedly fooled
himself on a lounge, and slept apparently me in regard to that young maiden sir!-.
very soundly for several hours. When he Yes, you have lied to me-trifled with my
at.length awoke, he found a tall wax candle time and patience scoundrel! You promis-
burning in a silver sconce on a table in the ed mc, she should be enticed to this house,
room, and the man-servant standing in a re. ere this I Why is she not here now? Mark
cess of a window, motionless as a statue, as me, Armond I The girl must be mine I If'
if brooding over some secret ot his life, or you do not secure me the prize before another
contemplating some purpose of a dark and week, your life shall pay the forfeit! Will
mister character.                      you remember that, villain I The vaults ot
Arlington soon perceived him, and calling this house shall again open to a ew victim,
him loudly by name, aroused him thorough- if any attempt is made by yo any longer
ly froat his reverie, or self communing, to thwart my purpose I Dare disobey me
ivhatevet~ they were.,                 at your peril.  Leave me instantly. .Be-
eArniond! Armond! why, stand you there gone I"
in the corner? What business have you in this "You shall be obeyed, Mr. Arlington.-
~po without my knowledge or permission Oh, yes, you shall be obeyed. The girl shall
y, fellow I Wouldst rob and murder be here, I'll warrant me," muttered the man
? Hither, wretch, and look me in the to himself ironically, as he quitted the pre-
cc, if you can, sin" cried the merchant, seuce of his master. "Oh yes, I'll humor
in a tone commingled with fear and brutal him in all these drunicen whims! But
4               acurage.                               -but-curses on the foul fiend! My hour

/
/
/

A~D SCARLET RIBBONS.
of vengeance and triumph shall come-cer  Her sister Helen, was directly the oppo.
fairs as death and hell shall come!"   site, in the color of her complexion, features,
and general traits of character. Her bea~ity
was of the style called brunette, though her
/
very dark hair and dark heavy eyebrows, gave
a sort of sombre cast to her countenance, ox
CHAPTER VII.                cept engaged in any animated conversation~
when it became radiant with intelligence and
sparkling loveliness. Her age was nineteen;
that of Blanche sixteen.
Mzsuzs or Caius.              The boy Eugene was aged twelve' There
was originally much daring and elasticity in
his constitution, but he was pale and sickly
The residence of the family of Temple was cooking, as if consumption was preying up on
in Race, near Second street. It consisted his vitals and casting a mantle of gloom
of the father, an aged man'-the mother, a about his natural vivacity of spirits.
woman of middle age-two daughters, and a The father was about sixty, and'being of
son.                                   a feeble frame and incapacitated by a pecia.
The grandfather of Robert, was originally7 liar ma~4y for attending to any business,
from England, but having an estate left him the whole care and support had long since
in France, he was called to Paris, and marry devolved on his wife. She was a woman
ing a French ladyliis descendants became about f~rty-with a full robust figure, large
identified with that nation. dark eyes, shaded skin and black hair, and
The present generation of the Temples with a disposition proud, haughty, aspiring,
spoke French, and possessed ~he usual and quite restless under the present depress.
characteristics of that people, except the sed circumstances of the family. They suf
youngest son and daughter, who being born fered from poverty, and often required the
in Philadelphia, spoke the language of their necessaries of life, yet the mother managed
progenitors but indifferently well, or rather to keep up appearances exceedingly well and
avoided using it all as mu~c~i as possible ,would not br~ok the imputation of poverty,
while their other general traits of personal She was a showy, dressy woman, and pos.
appearance and demeanor would have led e~ssed'a consummate art in the decoration of
any one to suppose they were solely of Ame herself and daughters. The family retained
rican pedigree or origin.             a pi~no, upon which, and likewise upon the
This was particularly the case withBlanehe guitar, the daughters played with judg~nent
Temple, who seemed to inherit every Anglo and skill, accompanying their harmonious
Baxon quality both physically and mentally, sounds with voices highly cultivated and
11cr skin was lily-like in its whiteness, and richer in melody than even the delicate tones
,oft delicate transparency. Her eyes were of the instruments themselves upon which
large and of the deepest cerulean blue, and it was their daily custom to thrumb. The
beamed with a most peculiar and fascinating family likewise, possessed many articles of lux-
rnut.re. -Her features were Grecian in their ury and refinement, such as jewelry, whioK
nould, slightly modified , but not deteriorated was a conspicuous object, particularly about
~n their beauty, while the pure healthy blood the pQrson of the mother, when she appeared
which flowed in her veins tinged her cheeks with ~ier daughters upon the fashionable
~ith the rose's bloom, and tipped with the prome~iades of the city.
ti~heet Icarnie.                        Th~ means of support for the fatnily, os~


80                      TIIE BLU
tensibly at least, was derived from an admir.
able taste and skill which the mother and
daughters possessed in the art of embroider.
ing and producing other delicate articles of
costume, which were privately disposed of by
the mother at one of the principal fancy
stores of the town. Of course, as might be
imagined from the outline we have given of
the family, Mrs. Temple was in fact, and ne-
cessarily so, the ruling spirit of the house,
and seemingly kept every thing in admirable
order in and about the household of which
she was now the acknowledged head and
mistress.
We must now speak of another Yfarnily-or
rather of some members of the same-as in.
evolved in the singular circumstances of crime
'and horror that ~rexnains to be developed in
our veritable narrative. This 4yas a family
by the name of La Rue, who resided in Se.
cond Street, just below Race. David La Rue
was a native of France, and now pursued the
business of jeweler, and was reported very
wealthy. This family consisted only of La
Rue, his wife, and Antoine, a son, now a
young man of about twenty-three years of
age.
The elder La Rue possessed two very
strong passions-the one to amass wealth'
and the other to witness his son, as he often
termed it, shine a star of the first magnitude.
He would work day and night to accumulate
riches, but made no stint of lavishing it upon
this hopeful heir Antoine-a paradox which
often presents itself among men of this na-
ture.
Among the fashionable traits which the
younger La Rue possessed was that of gain.
hUng. He was' considered a fat pigeon by
the gentlemen of this fraternity, atid though
he often got quite unmercifully picked, his
purse was readily ieplenished from the cof-
fers of his indulgent father, so that such things
as pecuniary losses never disturbed the ecjuan.
unity of his temper. In a word, to finish the
character of young La Rue, he wa~ thorough-
ly initiated into all the vices of the great

E BEARDS
city) while his moral traits from organization
had ~ever been very exalted, although his
education had not been by any means neglect-
ed, so far as he was a graduate of one of the
first colleges in the land1 prior to falling in
with evil company, who were now almost his
exclusive associates and friends, He played
an admirabl&amp;game of billiards, drove a cur-
ride with any m~tn; and was fully proficient
in all the dissipations and follies of the day.
Antoine La Rue had became quite inti
mate in the family of the Temples, and seem-
ed to have taken a strong fancy for Helen,
which predilections Mrs. Temple seemed to
view with lively interest ~nd favorprobably
looking to the wealth that young La Rue
would inherit from his father.
Helen, howev.ir, had cast her eyes on a
young man, named Charles Poihemus, who
officiated as a clerk in a drug store in the
neighborhood. Polhemus had received an
excellent education, and having studied
physic and pharmacy, he finally e~iose the
business of a druggist's clerk for his support.
He was about tweiity.two years of age -of
very delicate frame, pale face, fair skin, blue
eyes, and the usual characteristics of such
peculiar physical and mental organization.
He was somewhat of a recluse in ,his habits,
scarcely mingling in society, or visiting any
place of amusements. His knowledge of the
world, or its worst phases, therefore, was as
limited as that of a child. He seemed to
have no idea of the heated passions and evil
propensities of man, but in his innocence
imagined the world composed of beings as
pure as himself, or tho~e few persons with
whom lie associated.. His acquaintance with
the female sex was exceedingly limited, but
he had been introduced to both Helen and
BlancheTemple, and almost instantly hadhis
tenderst sympathies enlisted in favor of
Blanche, who seemed to him the poet's dream
of loveliness personified.
It is undoubtedly thatvhuman passions
develop themselves strangely with adoles-
cence and the force of the surrounding cir'

AND SCARLET R'LBBONS.

Ii

/ t~ I
I

$:1

cunstauces in which we are placed. Love arose from ked, arrayed herself in her m
is thus often found the most erratic and un- j attractive dress, sought the street and
controlable of all others. It controls' the entered the jewelry stare of Jacob La Rue.
judgment even at its ripest age, and sways The old shopkeeper was absent, but Antoine
the human will with a tyranny that is im- was in attendance for the time being, and
possible to resist. It is an axiom with phy. seeing the g~irl enter, he came forward to
biologists that the prefere~aces of the sexes is greet her, and remarked:-
always more or les~ influenced by tempera- "Ah, Helen-my sweet Helen-howbap.
mnents and physical appearances the very py I am to see you. Have you fully reco-
nutil~tl~es of each other. vered from your illness? I thought I wotild
~l2his law, at least, appeared to bold true lose you, but thank Heaven, you still smile
in respect to Helen Temple. Shc' was upon me with those sweet black eyes."
struck with the fair skin, delicate frame, and "Have you time, Antoineto walk with
quiet easy manners of Polhemus, and con- me aWhile ?" asked Helen, not heading his
ceived for him a passion so violent that it lcd gallant speech. "I wish to have some cnn-
her to develop it in a manner at once so versation with you of importance."
revolting to the susceptibilities of Polhemus "Certainly, dear Helen, certainly." The
that he telt constrained to avoid her society young man stepped back, called to his father
ai muvh as possible. The inclinations ~it in the yard, took up his hat, and returned
Helen had never been schooled by any dis- to the side of Helen.
cipline whatever, and now when she disco "Whither would you walk Helen? or shall
vered that her passion for Polhemus was we ride I"
totally rejected him, her deep strong love "No, we will walk. Let us go into Frank.
was changed in its property and turned to liii Square, and as soon as we get seine pri.
the sourest and most deadly hate. vacy I will talk with you."
We rend of the rage of the tigresj~ when They walked down Second In Arch, and
ber~eved of her young and foiled in its re- up Arch to Seventh, and, were ~oon scat~d
~overy. We can scarcely compare the pas' in a retired part of the Park.
sion of Helen to any thing else, when all Or "I would ask a special favor of you, An.
devoutly loving Charles Polhem'is with all toine; may I hope that you will grant it?"
the impetuousness of her nature, she~ ascer- "Ask a lover a question like that, Helen I
tamed from his own lips that her attachment What would you have me do, my. fair one ?"
was not reciprocated, and that he could love "Antoine! you have always endeavored
none other than her beautiful sister Blanche. f to make me believe that you so loved me."
This confession coming so unexpectedly "And you would never allow my protest~.
as it did, almost drove her mad. She gave tions, sweet Helen."
vent to her feelings in a thousand wild and " I would have the proof of it, Ant~iae I'
uneontrolable expresssions of hate and- If you prove it to my satisfaction, then-.-"
i-e~Ynge! "May I indeed hope that you will accept
The shock her passions had received, of my proposal," said the~young man, press.
threw her upon a bed of ~iekness for several ing her hand to~ his lips.
weeks, during all of which time, she appear- "He who is bereft of hope is'unfortuuate
ed as one laboring under some deep abstrac- indeed, Antoine ~
~f thought, 'or contemplated some ~lark ~lot ".Then I may hope, dearest Helen? speak,
whose consummation required the utmost now, and command of me what you ~wifl,
circumspection of detail. and your fullest wishes shall be obeyed."
At length, one evening, she suddcntv "Listen to me, Antoine. When once yqu

0

V''/
I,
'1.4


32

THE BLUE BEARDS

* mace proposals of love to me, I spurned you
as if you had been the asp that would sting
me I"
"So you did Helen"
"Since that time, however, circumstances
have changed my feelings in your favor. I
am well aware~ Antoine," she continued, not
resisting her lover, who drew his arm around
her waist, "that you would, to speak in plain
terms, seduce a young girl, whom, perhaps,
you may love for a while "
"Now, Helen, I protest-.-."
"Nay, Aiitoinc, do not expostulate, nor
strive to palliate the sin which besets Ihe
character of. all y ung men. I scarcely be-
lieve that you really love me from any thing
in my general character, but because you
are attracted by some point or beauty which
you imagine I possess."
"Dearest Helen, could you believe me on
my oath, I would swear that I really and
truly love you fir your sweet traits of charac.
ter alone, although your personal beauty is
my admiration and worship."
"Enough, Antoine I You know a young
man named Polhemus, who is a ~lerk in the
drug store o~f Jacob Scattergood ?"
- "Oh yes, I often see him. He is a puri-
tanical, smooth-faced young man, whom re
port says is skinless as a saint."
"Then report lies I" said Helen, her eyes
flashing with indignation. "Like many
other saints, he wears the garb of the best
of masters to serve the worst I He is a hypo-
crite-nay a consummate villain I"
"Ah, indeed I so I shQuld have suspect-
ed, but I interrupted you, Helen."
"This young man has insulted me deeply
-grossly! and not only myself, but my sweet
sister Blanche, whom I love dearer than
life 1"
"Now, by IIeaver~s, this is really a serious
business. Insulted you, and Blanche, that
~atr'angel creature, with snowy skin, blue
eyes, and golden hair."
~You describe her well, Antoine. Nature
never formed a fairer, sweeter, or more un

sophisticated a maiden, yet this villain Pal-
hemus iS laying his plans to bring her to
shame. With a young confiding heart~ she
listened to his tales of deceit, and believes
him the perfection of human beings. She
is rapidly falling into his snares, and will be
ruined, if something be not done immediate.
ly to break off the intimacy between them."
"Then it must be stopped, Heleni"
"Certainly; and I would have you take
the steps to put the young villain out of the
way altogether I"
"Bul how is it to be done? How would
you have me act in this matter ?"
"I wish a deep revenge on him. I am
determined to humble in the dust.-aye, if I
can, I will bring him to ignominy and death I"
"That is a deep revenge, Helen," said La
Rue, hesitatingly, and shrinking hack from
the girl.
"Ha! you would recede from mydemands
-would you, Antoine? Just now, in your
professions of love for me, you were willing
to undertake any thing I i-cquired at your
bands.
"N~y, Helen, I am ready to serve you to
the utmost of my power. But why so impul-
she in this matter? Th~ there no way to ac-
complish this business without inflicting in-
jury upon the young man
"No, no I I would murder him I"
"Then, I will seek a quarrel with him
and shoot him down I"
"That will never do. I could do that my.
self, hut my revenge would not be satisfied!
I wish to bring him to a condition where I
can reproach him with his villainy, and bring
him to a despair worthy of hell itself I" said
the maddened girl.
"I will hesitate no longer. I will assist
you in your purpose, whatever they may
"Then, listen now, Antoine, and let use
unfold my plans."
wai their converse together; and the
towu.cluck struck the hour of midnight be.
fore their plans had been brought to a~ti~.
I'
~ ~

S

1 1K

I

* I
I
a
(

rible and uncertain battle, so must we ar~
range the characters in our warfare of life
and death, crime and terror, that each lender
and each subordinate may hold his relath'e
importance in thegrand strifeof Destiny and
Fate.' There must needs be plot and coun-
tat-plot, marching and counter-marching, ad-
vance and retrogade movements of. all the
parties before they can he fully drawn up in
"martial array," or into that rank ~nd file,
consistent with the part each warrior in life's
turmoil is called upon to fulfil or enact. Ac-
cordingly, we now introduce, in addition to
those already presented, a few more persais-.
ages upon whose movements the final result
in the present contest of villainy and virtue
depends.
Itwas in the afternoon following the Sun-
day on which the mysterious converse took

The game of life, like every other problem, place betwesa the merchant Arlington, and
requires to be deeply studied, in order to ar- his servant Armond, that two elderly and welt
nyc at the proper solution or result. The known citizens were observed seated in front
first false move on the chessboard of man's of a small whitewashed cottage, that stood
existence, is liable to be attended with the in a garden of flowers and shrubbery, on the
most serious of consequences ever atkrwards. banks of the Sehuylkill, in the vicinity o the
This principle is but in accordance with the haunted house of the late family of Walsing-
immutable laws of cause and effect. ham. One of these was a fisherman and
As the reader may have already conjec- boat-man, named hans Switner, and the
lured, the plot of our truthful narrative of other tjacob Daweon, the owner of the cot-
crime and virtue, is sofnewhat deep and in. tage, and whose business was that of a gar-
tricate. The whol~ mystery, however, will dener n~id florist.
be clearly revealed us we proceed. From Their conversation related to the stories
the number of persons involved in the league of the haunted house, and also, to the mys-
of outlaws and villains who were known to tery which surrounded the history and char-
the initiated as the "Order of the Blue acter of a remarkable female, called the
Beards and Scarlet Ribbons," we shall be "RED WITcu OF WIssAmonox," who dwelt
obliged frequently to shift the kaleidoscope of in a secluded cave, near the jtinc4lon of that
life, in order to a proper pretentation of all stream with the waters of the ~Isu&amp;lkjll, atid
the parties or characters, and to a faithful pursued the calling of a Fortune Teller.-
~developement at the motives and passions This strange creature refused all intercourse
which influenced the blossoms of all who be- with human kind, except when visited by
came in'any way involved or implicated in curious parties anxious to have their desti-
the wi~d and mysterious events that were nies foretold, or to test 'her incantations G?
concomitant of the existence of tbs same the powers of her sorcery and witchcraft.-
fbrmidable ~ecret fraternity. As the skillful ~be had resided in her present abode, only
~n&amp;-al is expected to dispose his forces to a few niou~hs, aiil us a matter of course,.
't~ie best advantage preparatory to some ter-) speculaticiu 'was rife as to l~er proper name
/

AND SCARLET 'RIliflONS.

9

C
p

a
If

4                               .
ft

"Carry out this project and your request
shall be granted, Antoine!"
"You promise me then, that you will he
mine, Helen ?"
"I solemnly do I I will be your slave, and
mistress I"
Antoine drew the girl to his breast, and
the contract between them was sealed with
a kiss.
He escorted her back to within a ~ew
doors of her home, when the plotters sepa.-
rated for the night.
[CHAPTER VIII.
THE RED WITCH or THE WISSAHICHON.-
Tn~ vwo OLD FRIEND5.-~MY5TEESOU5.

1
si


THE BLUE BEARDS
and origin. Some supposed her to be the arms, and paused a moment, till Mr. Swit~er
long missing Ida Walton; others that she who now leaned his back against the pail-
was the out-cast wife of Walsiughani. She; ings~ should raise his arms from the gate end
however, seemed very aged, and as her cam- allow her to enter the cottage.
plexion was of a dark saffron hue, the venom- Though her stop was as light as a fairy
sion generally was that she was either a var- upon a bed of violets, the quick ear of the
grant gypsey, or an Indian or mulatto weather beaten fisherman, was instinctively
woman. She~was aim reputed ~to have rare cognizant of her presence. He turned his
skill as a doctress, and was often seen at the honest face towards her, and in the blunt
midnight hour, or before sunrise in the yet kind manner that was peculiar to him-
morning, among the rocks and glens of the self, remarked
Wivsahickon, gathering the wild flowers, "Ab, Minny, dear 1 Good evening, my
herbs and roots, of which she made her me- darling rosebud pet. [ declare, you are
dicinal syrups and compounds. She usually growing prettier and prettier every day;
wore a plain loose flowing robe of scarlet and soon will be, a full grown woman, friend
flannel, or other cloth, from which peculiar Dawson."
costume she obtained the name or soubre- The last part of the waterman's speech
quet of the "Bed Witch of the Wissahick- was addressed to the girl's father.
on."                                      "You flatter me, Mr. Switzer; I am no
In was asserted, however, that she always handsomer than I was yesterday, that I
dressed herself in a white shroud or winding know ;" saidthe girl. "Do you think I am,
8/wet, when she went forth on ~ber nocturnal lather I" she added, as she .jumped about
herbal excursions; while rumor also affirmed his neck and kissed his sun-browned cheeks.
that she was often seen in this ghostly dress "That's right ?-that's right, kiss your
at night in a small 'boat, sailing over the good old father, my girl l" ejaculated Switzer
waters of the Schuylkill, in the vicinity of "As for me, I have no dear child to caress
the Walsiugham haunted house-and even me now I No one cares for poor old Switzer.
to enter its garden, by a secret gate, or All are gone-wife and children-all are
water-sluice door, that opened out on the dead and goi~e I" the waterman added, while
Schaylkill, although SL'.ch aperture, if any he brushed away a tear that spontaneously
existed, remained concealed beneath the glistened in his eye.
heavy vines, briars and shrubbery that lined "Oh. say not, so, good Mr. Switzer I do
and covered the precipitous bark of the not say that nobody cares for you. There's
river, in the rear, of the deserted house and a kiss for you, too, Mr. Switzer, and I love
garden. Hence it became to be generally all my father's friends, and mine also," said
believed that she was the veritable lady in the girl, running to the boatman aL~d putting
'white, or the ghost that walked in the gar- up her cheeks for him to salute.
den of Walsiugham's mansion, at unseason- There, Switzer I After that, never say that
ble hours at night, and who was connected no one cares f~r you. That kiss, surely, is
in some way or otitar with the infernal noises worth a thousand sighs, though her father
and orgies that had been so often heard in should say so, my worthy old friend."
the halls and chambers of the desolate old "You're right-you're right, si~ l I am
buildings.                              happy now, Dawson, and will never grumble
While the two friends Switzer and Dawson and grieve again while sweet little Miiuay
thus conversed, a young girl, dressed in a and you remain my friends."
plain chintz dress and white linen sun-ben- "We've known each other sincecarly boy-
net, approached, with a small basket on her hood, and its not likely that we shall part

I
V
1'

F

~
I

.ANfl SCARLET RIBBONS
friendship when the frosfs of age are whiten "Well, I am sure I don't know what to
ing our hairs, good Mr. Switzer," remarked snake of the boy of late. It is only Just week
the gardener.                          that he made me pay a good sum of money
"No-no-we have always been friends to break his indentures with Mr. Somers.
together, and so let us always be neighborly the blacksmith4 and now he goes rovii~
and kind to each other," rejoined the boat- about the city and country, like one posses-
man, so the two men grasped each other's ed of an evil spirit. Re is always talking
hands in a fervent shake of amity and good of going to sea, and be has been to see Mr.
feeling~.                              Arlington to ship himself before the mast,
"But, Minny," asked Switzer, "where's on a voyage to Canton, in one of his mar-
your brother Georgo~ .1 have come over to chant vessels."
get him take ehage ~f my boats to-morrow, "Well, Dawson, why not let him go to
sea?
while I go down with a party of gentlemen Who knows, but he might become the
to League Island, on a fishing excursion.- commander of an East indiaman by.and.by~
I have just been asking your father about There-see how fondly his sister welcomes
the young man."                        him'! Ab, Mr. Dawson, while you have such
"Yen, Minny! Where's George? Rave a daughter, you should have no fears for
you seen him since this morning, when he George. I'll be bound, he'll make his way
went into the city with you." through the world, and prove an honor and
"No, father. He did not go withme at a blessing to his father yet."
to the end of our lane, father, and "Ho, there George I-George, I say I"
all-.---only                             "Coming, father, as soon as I fasten the
1 have not seen him since. But see, father 1 boat."
who is that crossing down the river in the "T~~There have you been, sir ?" said Mr.
little boat. It looks like my brother. Yes riawson, somewhat sternly to his son.~-~
father-it is him. It is brother George, Mr. Here Mr. Switser has been waiting to see
Switzer."
"Ah, ha! '['o be sure it is him. Who else you this whole hour at least. How dare you
take his boat without permission, sir?'
can manage old Switzer'a boats like George 1 "Fthought he would have no objectionto
See how prettily the little craft darts over
tee water. I missed the skiff early this my ussng'it, to carry two gentlemen up, the
and wondered whether it had broke river to the witch cave. And here, Mr.
morning,                               Switzer, is the money they gave me for the
from its fastenings, or v~hether some rogue service. They, asked for you, sir; but as
had taken it off altogether while I was absent you were not about the boat-house, I offered
from the fish-house this morning." to take them up in your stead, as they said
"Ah, my son has been taken a great lib-
erty with your property, Mr. Switzer ~ they were in a hurry to go on their business
Mr. Switzer. I meant no offence, sir I"
will rebuke him for 'his presumption, sir.-
George banded the old boatman afivedol-
ILc~ should not have gone off with the boat lar gold piece.
without your permission, Mr. Switzer I It "No, no, George. I~all not take the
was wrong for him to do so," said the kar-
dener, in tones both of sorrow and anger at money. You have ear~ied it and shall keep
the                                    boats any time, you like, George." occurrences  it, my lad. You are *elcome to any of my
No, no, my good friend Dawson I George "No
is welcome to take the boat at any time he his George don't want the money," said
it. If I hd known that he           father. ~" Indeed I shall not permit him
want's         a               had it, I to keep it, sir."
would not have said a word about missing '~ No, Mr.~Switzer, I do not care abou4
it I"                                  the money. I did the little job for you, tool

*1


AND SCARLET RI13BOi~S.          .37

THE BLUE EE~HD~

86

your boat, and have no right, to the money.
and will not have it, Mr. Switzer."
"Oh, then, if you will be obstinate, I can't
belp it; and so I must retain the coin to
please you both," replied the waterman.
"George, Mr Switzer wants you to be at
his boat stall to-morrow, and attend to his
customers, while he will be away on business
-you'll have no objection to serve him,
George 1"
"None whatever, with all my heart.. Be.
sides the strange gentlemen said they would
remain at the cave of the Red Witch, all
night, and bargained with me come up for
them to-morrow; which I would like to do
with your perniission, Mr. Switzer."
"Oh, certainly, my hearty. Go and bring
them back. I'll get Sandy McCarty to stay
at the boathouse while you arO absent on
this errand."
Switzcr bade Mr. Dawson. George andi
Minny good night, and returned to his own
domicile in the neighborhQod of Dawson's
cottage.
"Now, George, tell me who were the gen-
tlemen you took up to the Wissahickon ?-
Were they citizens or strangers ?"
"They are strangers. At least, I do not
think they are Philadelphians. I have never
seen theta before."
* "You will probably be able to find out
something about them to-morrow, when you
take up the boat for them."
"Yes, father. I thought it strange when
they said t'hey were going to remain With the
Red Witch all night, and I want to know a
little of their curious business myself, it I can
find it out! '1'hey have plenty of money, and
I am sure of getting well paid for my trouble
in taking up the boat, at any rate."
The next morning before sun-rise, George
started tu the house oh Mr. Switzer, and soon
alter was seen moving a skiff' over theclcar
waters of the Schuylkill,
Meantime the gardener culled the rarest
and freshest of his flowers, and dispatched
~ai~ dang~ter to one of the city markets to~

1W

sell the sweet boquets, acrerably to her cus-
tom, in the floral season.
That day passed away-night came-but
Minny dd not return to give her father tl'e
proceeds of the sale of the flowers, and make
the cottage pleasant with the musical tones
of her voice, and the natural joyousness of
her nature.
The next day passed-another-the fourth
day-a week-and that fair, sweet young
girl continued away from the house of her
childhood and parental love!
Where had departed? What was her
fate? What were the strange rumors con-
cerning the Blue Beasds and Scarlet Ribbons?
Had some terrible evil befallen the girl ?-~
Abduction! Seduction I Oh, what roon,
for conjecture! What ground for alarm and
terror!
CHAPTER IX.
Tan LIBERTINE'S STRATAGEM I-" Tan
BIRDIE ZN THE CAGE !"-FoUL INTENT.
True to his promise, so ironically made to
his master, the menial Armond visited High
street market, and found little difficulty in
inducing Minny Dawson, the innocent and
unsuspecting flower-girl to bring her floral
treasures to the house of the rich merchant
Arlington, hy alleging that he designed giv-
ing a ball on the evening of that day, and
would pay liberally for the rarest boquits
that could be furnished for the occasion.-
'1'he business was managed so cautiously
by the wiley servant, that among those who
trafficked in the market, no cue knew any-
thing of it, and naturally supposed that she
had disposed of her flowers, and returned
home to the cottage of her father.
~iinny Dawson was yet but mere a child
in years, her age being about fourteen years,
but there was that voluptuousness in her
form that already betokened the full ripeucas
and glory of young womanhood. Her au-
burn hair was plaited neatly over her smooth
forehead, and so arranged to f~il in a shower
of ringlets upon her shonklers, thereby fort,,-
ing a contrast between the ~ia~hing skin

and the sunny hair that might well captivate
the eye and sensuality and awaken intense
passion in the most stoical of bosoms. Her's
wasa beauty such as

"Guido would have loved to dwell upoc ;"
but, as we are not au fait in describing the
comparative qualities of woman's charms, we
leave the reader to draw up on his own im-
agination for every attribute of sweetness
and grace, and yield thens as he legiti-
mate concomitants of the re'mailiable loveli-
ness of Minny Dawson.
in less than an hour from the time she
was accosted in the market by Armond, she
found herself seated in a large back parlor of
the rich merchant's house. Here she was
requested to wait a short time till Mr. Ar-
lington should take his breakfast and inspect
the sweet flowers for himself, before paying
for them.
Au hour passed, and then another, and
she remained alone in that gorgeous room
into which 4he had at first been ushered,
wondering the while that the owner of the
mansion, or some other person did not enter,
inspect her flowers, and let her depart.
She had full time to observe the beautiful
paintings that hung in splendid gilt frames
against the walls-the exquisite pieces of
statuary th6 stood in the recesses of the
room-the large mirrors-the chandelier of
cut glass-the rich curtains of the windows,
the costly furniture, and a Turkey carpet
that blazed in the riches of its roses and
other floral devices, while it was as soft as a
field of moss to the feet.
Her patience at length became entirely
exhausted, and becoming alarmed at the
silence which prevailed, she rose and went
to the door that led to the hall. She found
it was locked from the outside, and realized
in full force that she was a prisoner! She
uttered a loud scream, and kept up the out-
cry at so.wild a rate, that the wretch Ar-

.37

moral felt constrained to show hi~ presence
in order to quiet her clamor.
"What is all this outcry about," he said,
"in a gentleman's house? You have been
screaming as if somebody was murdering you
outright, my pretty miss! ~on't be alarmed
-no one is going to kill you, any howl But
you have got to wait till my master shall
come in. He must have forgotten you were
here when he left the house this morning."
"Oh, then, I can't stay. I must gd and
sell my flowers. See they are all drooping
already. Indeed I mu~tgo Do, sir, let me
go and sell my flowers in the market before
they all loose their freshness and fragrance.
Please do, sir I"
"Oh, no, thal will never'do! The house.
keeper will put the flowers in fresh water,
and you must remain here till my master
shall come home and give you the money for
them. Here, Margeryl Margeryl the girl
wants to go away."
The housekeeper, a sinister looking old
hag, of fifty years, now made her appearance,
and said to the girl:-
"The pretty birdie is in the cage at last,
and we cannot let her go before the master
comes to hear it sing! Oh. no, miss, you
mu~t not leave the house. He'll be here by-.
and-by, and pay you for the roses, maybe,
and let you go?"
There was that in the looks and speech of
the old hag. that more and more alarmed the
flower girl. She threw herself on her knees,
an4 begged permission to depart at once
from the house
"I have ~been too long away already..-.
My poor old father will be verynnessy about
me, if I do not soon be at home. I have
been here a long while. Oh do let me go
home l"
~' Oh, no, we dare not let you depart. The
master would be very angry with us if we
did. Be quiet, my pretty dear, and take a
bite of something to eat. A bit of cake and


38              TilE BLUE 13E~RD5                                            AND SCARLET RIBBONS.           39~

a glass of wine will i-efresh you, ano then ir~ep the flowers I have brought here to-day,
you'll not mind waiting a spell, will you, I will take no money for them, only let me
dear ?"                                go home now to my father."
"Oh, no-I want nothing; do let me go "No, not yet, my pretty one You have
away. Where am I? What house is this? caused me a good deal of trouble already,
Do tell me; won't you tell me, good man, and and I cannot let you leave here until we shall
you, good woman-won't you tell me whose become better acquainted with each other l
house is this ?"                       What are your sweet rosen compared to the
"That's ofno consequence. You see it is a freshness of your cheeks and lips I No my
fine place hall of pleasure I But ibar nothing blooming one, you must remain my guest, and
Master will taeat you as a lady. He has become the pretty mistress of this mansion."
often seen you, admired your pretty fhce, and "What mean ycu sir I"
will make you'his-yes, marry you, and give "Did you ever love, my pretty one ?"
you fine clothes and jewelry, perhaps. You "Yes. 1 love dearly my father tud bro-
must wait and see him. I'erhaps he will ther." jr
let you go home -perhaps not."           "None other?"
"Oh, you don't mean that I I am only a "Onlymy fathers friend-good old Mr.
poor, weak little girl. I have a dear old fa. Switzer."
ther, and a good kind brother. He will not "What sweet simplicity I By Heavens
take me away from them-oh, say that he she is beautiful 1" muttered Arlington to him.
not.                                   self, when he added aloud," what is your
"Iihave told yo'~s nothing but the truth, name charming darling ?"
~nd I dare not b~-' th~ champion of every "Minny Dawson."
foolish girl who is brought into this house." "A pretty name it is, too. But who is
So saying, Armond thrust the girl again your father, and where does he reside, Miii-
into the parlor, and turned the key upon the nyV'

neauteons prisoner.                       "Out on the Schuylkill. He is a garde-
The girl made the house echo with her wild ncr and florist.'-
shrieks, which were continued for some mo- "Ah, indeed; I know your father well,
mnents, when she IWI to the floor in a helpless Minny. 'He is an old and particular friend
cataleptic condition ~~'*                 of mine."
Scarcely, however, had this oceured, when This, Arlington said to quiet in some dc-
Arlington entered the house and was inform- gree, the girl's apprehensions; for he already
ad 'd all that had' transpired. He quickly knew who the girl was, and her parentage,
entered' the room where the girl lay prostrate long before he sought to inveigle her to his
~nd Insensible upon the floor. IIe~ ~ordered laviscious toils.
brandy and hartaborn to be brought imme- "Then you will not detain me here, but
diately, which being procured, herubbed the let me go home at once."
palm of the hands and bathed the girl's fore- "Oh, yes, I'll let you go home-.-presently,
head, while she began to show signs of return- Minny. But how do you know my name
ing animation and consciousness. Thereupon Minny ?"
she sprang to her feet, and exelaipied,   "('1' ~'vru-v body knows you, Mr. Arling.
"Oh, it is you, Mr. 4rlington? Youhave ton. anu ~ ' bat you are such a good
not brought me here to keep me, have Au nice old gentleman. 'In market 'women told
aim'. The man said so, but I am sure you will me your name, when you bought all my
not do that. You came to the market the flowers the other day sir."
other day, and bought all my flowers, and gave1 The merchant bit his lips, and there came
me more money for them than I asked. Do'nn expression on his countenance tb'st par

took of fear and share~ Probably, it was a
j          thought that his contemplated villainy had
been noticed, and detection would speedily
follow, when the girl's disappearance from
home would he made known.
"No, no 1" he muttered inwardly-
None will suspect me of any 'participation
in the girl's abduction and dishonor! My
character is too well established to be in-
jured by the breath of calumny or detrac-
tion! Dawson believes me to be one ci' his
best friends, and I have already arranged to
send George to Canton in the first of my
i~sels that sails. No, I willilot be suspected
In this afl'air! The girl is now in my power!
She shall not leave this house until I have
revelled in her virgin maturity and sweet-
ness I"
The villain, an he mentally soliloquized,
betrayed nothing of What had flashed so in-
stantly through his mind; but assuming his
usual bland and affable demeanor be asked:
"And Would you kiss me Minny, were I
to be your friend?"
"Oh yes, sir, if you will let me thee go
home."
"Not without that promise Minny ?"
"No I I see you are not my friend, Mr.
Arlington, I must go, sir! I canpbt stay any
longer, sir. Oh do let me go away, sir."
"But I am your 4rieud, Minny! Nay,
more; I love you-passsionatcly 'love you-
As he spoke he drew thegirl to his breast,
and you must be mine !"
and lavished a shower of burning kisses upon
her sweet dewy lips.
'~ Rapture! rapture I" the libertine ejacu-
lated. "Was there ever nectar more fra-
grant than the moisture of those lips 1"
"Unhand me, sir, and let me go! cried
the girl, as soon as the *retch ceased his
caresses, struggling to free herself from his
grasp. '-Unhand me sir I You are a base,
wicked man, and I will scream murder, if
you do not let me go sir 1"
"Murder! murder !" she instantly shriek-
ed, and strove to release herself from the old
libertine's clutches.

38

3

"Nay, c#y murder as much as you please!
These walls are thick, *ind your shrieks are
not likely to be heard by any tine. If to love
yoti, is to murder you, then I will surely be
the death of you I"
"Shame on you sir! Talk to a child like
meof leve 1 Indeed, Ide not understand what
you mean by such language-.-~ut-----but-yes,
I will kiss you if you will let me go home-
let me return home to my dear, poor
old father, sir !" spoke thegiri indignafitl~,in
softened tones, while the.gushibg tears hulier
~yespleaded eloquently f~r her release.
"By heavens I She doesnot even fear me
Can she he acting h~r part! Does she sm~-
pect my object?"
Suddenly a wild phrenny of unholy pas-
s~on'seized upon the wretched old man. Uis
blood became inflamed ~o the highest de-
gree, Re was no longer a ~easoulng man,
but a foul distempered brate. He laid his
rough hands upon her snowy shoulders,
seized 'her by the waistband cas$ her vio-
lently toa lounge that wac Detr at hand. In'
doing so, hower, hiS foot tri~mped ie the gor-
geous carpet, amid he fell headforenmost .over
,the piece of furniture upon which the girl had
been flung. Shosprang to her feet and dart.
ad to the door to escape. It was locked. She
flew to the window and tried to raise the
heavy sash, In this attempt she failed.-
Meantime, the survivor recovCred his equilt.
brium and started after hisprey. ~he fell
at his feet and piteously begged for mercy~
are mine I and heaven tior hell shall
not now thwart my purpose," cried the mad-
detmed sensual brute,' isa be agt~in threw the
fair young girl upon thelomsn~e. She rea1iz~
cdiii all its fearfulness theterrible purpose of
the villain, ~nd her own utter helplessness
in his iron-like grasp. Yet she resisted with
more than 'supernatural power, and crie~1
wildly to Heaven to spare and save her pmu-
tity from the foul. pollution of the libertine
fiend I (iod seemed to answer her prayer,
and she was temporarily rared from the dia-
boflcal intent I Oh, termizole was the scene
which now occurred '


40' .~      THE BLUE BEARDS

CHAPTER Xe
BLACK RoLl', THE DWARF SWEEP.
Tan DEED OF HORROR.
Sweep, ho! sweep, ho!
I         From tho bottom to the top,
Without a ladder or6a rope,
Sweep, ho! sweep, ho!
Such was the cry of Black Rolf, ti
Dwarf; a well-known chimney sweep
Phil~sdelphia, as he sat perched on tI
top of a chimney of a vacant house whi(
adjoined that of the merchant Arlingto
in Penn street, preparatory to the oem
pancy of the premises by a new tenan
after the same had been thoroughly pur
lied and put in habitable condition.
Those were the days of wood firci
soty and smoky chimneys, and extensir
conflagrations-all of which evils lini
pily. remedied in a large degree by th
general introduction of grates and an
thracite coal as a substitute for wood fue
at the present day.
The employment of sweeps was dcemm
absolutely indispensable as a means o
comfort and safety. These persons wen
coiuposed of the colored portion of tin
inhabitants, who derived handsome
'~emoluments and comfortable living fron
t1x~e proceeds of their sooty trade or call.
ing.
"Othcllo'~ occupation," however, ha~
long since' fairly ceased. Indeed, a
sweep has become quite a variety in the
*great metropolis, so that when these
sable and begrimmed personages are
seen in the streets, they are looked upon
as objects of curious interest; nay, even
with a species of wonder and awe allied
to the fearful and superstitious, as if they
were imps of darkness from the kingdom

of Pluto, appearing on earth to proclaim!.
the horrors of the place of doom~
"Sweep, ho [ sweep, ho I" cried Black
Roif, in rich and melodious strains, dur-.
ing quite a long song, appropriate to,' an
expressive of his peculiar calling occa-
sionally branching off into extempora-
neous variations of words and music,
that gave a very amusing and extraordi-
xc nary interest to his theme.
of Suddenly, the songof the Dwarf Sweep
xe was interrupted by the loud shrieks of
~h some one in distress. RoIf instantly
a, sprang to his feet, with the agility of a
i. leopard, on the top of the small chimney
t, which ho had been sweeping, looked
i- keenly around in every direction, and
held his ear as if to catch more dis-
i, tinetly the source of the voice of the
e person in peril.
"Help! help! Murder! murder!"
e now came again to his quick and at-
tentive ear, as if of a voice in the dis-
I tance, or one suffering strangulation.
Re knew the house to be uninhabited'
4on the chimney of which he stood, ftnd
f as it was near noontide of the day, a deed
of violence was not likely to occur in the
open street. Instantly he sprang down
from the chimney to the roof, dashed
along its summit on all fours, like a black
- bear, apd climbed the chimney of the
adjoining house of the merchant Arling-
ton. He promptly threw his body across
the chimney and thrust his head fairly
* out of view down th~ flue of the mer-
chant's dwelling.
Once more the screams of a female
voice were repeated with such distinct
clearness as to leave no further doubt
whence the sound proceeded.
"H-e-l-p! h-e-l-p! M-u-r-de-r I
mu-r"-came up through the flue of

1

4
'4
~6,~'

AND SCARLET ZIBBONS.
the chimney with prolonged end terrible ing crime, and probably.dreading expo.
agony of accent. It was enough. RoIf sure, 'he demanded:
instantly realized the imminent peril of "Scoundrel I Wretch! Black Imp of
the person who thus so piteously and hell! Whence came you? Why this
hopelessly called for aid . intrusion in my house? Hence! begone!
Thoughtless cad reckless of danger to or by the foul fiend of sulphur himself;
himself, his impulsive spirit a&amp;f gene- you shall di\on the instant."
rous nature urged him pronptl~y to the "Not so, Mr. Arlington," replied
succor of the distressed. 1-le darted Roll'; "Brute! Monster! that I now
down the vent with the rapidity ~of know you to be. Come near me at your
lightning, and beheld a young and beau- peril. Heaven has sent me to be the
tiful maiden in the clutches of the protector of beauty and innocent@~ She
monster Arlington.                 is safe in these dusky and burly ~x~xs,
lie had torn the clothing from the while I have strength to guard her pu-
breast of the girl, and would have sue- rity, whatever the hazard of my life.
ceeded in his salacious and diabolical Back-back--I sat, or by the great
purpose~ had not the sweep at the very God in heaven I will cut the foul heart
instant providentially interfered for her from your villainous bosom, and cast it
deliverance from pollution.         to be devoured by the dogs in the street.
So excited and inflamed were the wild' RoIf held the poor girl, who had
Passions of the libertine, and so intent fallen the second time into a cataleptic
was he upon his horrible, purpose, he condition, under one ar~n, while he
heard nothing of the descent of RoIf brandialwd a huge knife and kept the
through the chimney-nor saw him, libertine at bay. He wheeled backward,
until he was pounced upon like a tigress as he spoke, in the direction of the door
robbed of her whelp, and torn by heren- leading to the hall, with a view to escape
lean force from the neck of his fair and with his precious burthen.
struggling victim.                    Arlington, however, was not to be so
Had the devil made his appearance, easily baffled in his purpo~e~q robbed of
Arlington could not have *been more his prey. He crowded on 1~l~k Rolf
a'armcd and dumbfounded on the instant, with a desperation of purpi~se that.could
and in the first impulse of his terror he scarcely be resisted by the rescuer of the
uttered 'a wild cry of despair, as if he girl from the hound of li~st~
realized that the Arch Adversary was Roif reached tha door; unlookedkit
about to hurl his accursed soul to the~ and sought to dart away with the insen-
depths of endless perdition.       sible maiden in his ax ins. Unfortunate.
He, however~ quickly discovered that ly (or, perhaps, we should say fortunate-
the strange and begrimed personage who ly, so far as the girl was concerned,) her
had opportunely come to the deliverance garments caught in the lock, and were
of the girl was the well-known sweep, stripped almost entirely in fliad4irs fr.na
whose services he had himself often en- her lovely and insensible form.
gaged. His courage returned, and with There was now a wild cry from the
the rage of a villain detected in a revolt-I throat of the switched Arlington.

6,6

1


THE BLUE BEARDS

AND ~SCARLET RIBBONS.

"Great God! what do I behold! N~
chiId~-my long lost child.' That marl
of hell! The serpent at the heart
The serpent at the heart! Holy Heaven
what would I have done? She is sav&amp;
.'-.-saved from pollution! lVlychild-m2
daughter! Take not away my child l"
Such strange tnd inconiprehensibl(
language filled the ~heart of Black Roll
with no little amusement, commingled
with terror. He muttered-
" "I understand you not. She is no
ehild of yours! Would a father violate
his own child? Never-never! Back-
back, I say. She shall not remain here!
I will bear her away. She shall be
saved from the toils of infamy and vil-
lainy."
~"Sheshallnotbetakenhence! She
lay child I say! As God is my wit-
ness, she is my darling first born child!
I will protecther! She must not-shall
hot lie torn from her father's arms 1"
"Liar! villain! She cannot be the
child of so foul a monster of crime!
Back! or perish in your hellish ini-
quity !"
Arlington heeded not the words of the
powerful negro dwarf, but rushed for-
ward to the restraint of both the girl and
her black deliverer.
The dwarf finding that his only chance
of escape was by maiming, or killing his
*hite adversary outright, let slip his long
sharp bladewith tremendous energy into
the bosom of Arlington. He fell be-
neath the blow, stunned and bleeding,
as from a fatal wound!
"Murder! murder! Seize the black
'dog! Murder! Arinond! Help! Mur-
der! were the word~ shrieked by Arling-
ton, in such loud and awful tones, that
it seemed as if the whole city would be
armed at the outcries.

y The knife had struck ega~nst Arling-
ton's ribs and glanced obliquely outward
I from his liody, without doing further
I damage than making a frightful gash
I athwart the breast, and temporarily stun-
ning him.
He quickly sprang to his feet and
darted through the hall-way in pursuit
of Black Rolf
His fearful cries of murder, brought
his servants Armand and Margery to the
hall just as the African had gained the
uner or screen door of the passage, near
the street door.
Armond instantly comprehended the
whole affair, and rushing forward, he
struck a heavy blow upon the back part
of Black Roif, which felled him to the
fioor~ as in death.
"Seize the black devil I Bind him
hands and feet! Drag him down to the
dark vaults and let him become a dinner
for the rats! .A4i child! Oh, iVlargery!
She is my child-my long lost daughter!
Unclasp her from the black skunk's
arms! Save her-save her! Let not
my dear child perish in the foul brute's
arms I"
It was the work of a moment to do
the bidding. of Arlington.
Armand tore the sooty garments from
the sweep, quickly bound his arms and
feet, (although th~ still insensible con-
dition of the Dwarf, rendered such pro-
cedure unnecessary,) dragged him, by
main force, as he would the dead carcass
of a dog, througji a dark passage and
down a slimy flight of steps to the dismal
vault indicated by his master, where he
thrust the helpless negro and left him
utterly to perish.
Meanwhae, Margery lifted up the
stricken girl-conveyed her very gently
to a neat and secluded boudoir-laid her

(
/

carefully on a couch, and promptly ap-
plied the usual remedies to arouse her to
consciousness from the state of asphyxia
into which she seemed to have fallen.
Arlington now completely exhauste4
by his struggle with the maiden and his
fierce strife with Black Roif, threw him-
self on a sofa in the parlor, and en~
deavored to compose himself, as he was
able, in the relaxation of his nerves and
mental energies. What his reflections
were may probably be imagined. They,
however, found no utterance in words~
At the end of some minutes, Armand
entered the room, and reported the ful-
filment Qf the commands he had received
from his master.
"The black imp is secure enough now~
I'll warrant mel He will never sing
'Sweep, ho 1' on the housetop again. His
soul is already in the devil's clutches,
and his beastly body will make a. rich
supper for the worms and the rats."
The heartless iV.retoh chuckled a
fiendish laugh as he spoke.
K            '~'Tis well, Armand I This affair
must be kept a profound secret. You
know ho~ deeply you are implicated in
this terrible libsiness with myself. God
[1
knows, I anticipated no such results I
This young girl, whom I would have
used to lustful purposes, I havebut now
discovered to be my own daughter-even
that innocent infant creature whom I
spurred from niy arms, in the first blush-
ing hours of her existence surrendered
to the care of~ strangers~ and who has
been dead and lost to me these manylong
years until within the present hour. Oh,
Armond I It was'a strange discovery in-
deed-but more wonderful the manner
of her deliverance from the polluted
evils in which I sought to enmesh the

tender child! Would have violated my
own daughter-.-committed foul incest,
indeed !.-unki~oioingly, yet, Heaveui
help me I none the less horrible the
crime I meditated! Oh, the stain that
would have rested on her unhappy fath.-
ePs soul. 'Wails have ears,' 'tie said.
I know not but that the terrible outcries
that have rung through these wails, and
awakened the echoes of every recess,
may have been heardin the streets. As
a matter of prudence, the girl must be
removed from hence. This very night
she must be secretly conveyed to my
country villa. She must be 2coiiveyed
there and secreted in one of the chain.-
bers without the knowledge of the do-
mestics who have the place in charge
I
during my stay in the city. Margaret
shall accompany you, and attend upon
the maiden as her special nurse, till such
time as she shall recover from her pre-
sent prostrationand be acknowledged to
the world as my only child aiA heir I"
"Your word is, law with rae, Mr. Ar-
!ington, and shall be strictly obeye~.'~
"'Tis well. Call Margery hither, and
if she cannot leave the stricken chfld,
return yourself and report her present
stXte of health. A glass of wine first,
Armand-then speed you on your er-
rand."
His request was promptly obeyed, and
Margery made her appearance before the
merchant.
"She is better, air. She has recovered
fromlier fainting fit, and is now enjoy-
ing seemingly a refreshing sleep. Strange
thing, indeed, that whioh has come tr
pass this day, Mr. Arlington. You have
found your' long missing child-but-.-.
but"-
'Cease woman! Enough! I know

i 4*

3,

4;


I

AND~ SCARL~T RIBBONS.

:45

44                    THE BLUE BEARDS
'what you woul~1 say. Thank God she here he drew up his boat to the shore,
remains as pure as an angel in heaven! and awaited the appearance of hi~ Cue-
She has not been brutally outraged by tomers, in a small . cove beneath the
her own parent!. It surely was a provi- shadow of the overhanging rocks.
dental interposition, Margery! I own He had scarcely secured his boat, and
my guilty passion-f9r my child is saved! refreshed himself by a draught of cool
She shall now have the fullest sympathies water that spouted out in a small and
of a repentant father. The utmost lay- regular streitm from the hillside ~ito a
ish of a parent's affection, the lonely sort of s~atural basin, when the Red
darling creature shall henceforth have Witch came forth from her haunt and
from me, Margery."                 informed him that the gentlemen for
Arlington then detailed his future whom he waited hard departed several
plans, and bade the woman goand attend hours before his arrival, on a st~,oll up
the bedside of his daughter, while he the banks of the Schuylkiil, and would
retired to his own room for a few hours' return to the city by the conveyance of
repose.                            the stage from Germantown. When she
On that same evening, Minna, in a had finished her speech the wierd woman
rapidly convalescent state, was conveyed handed George a piece of gold of the
to Arlington's country villa, in a boat same value as that he had received of
rowed by Armand, accompanied by Mar- the young gentlemen, as the reward for
gery. the nurse.                   his services on the previous day.
George had never seen the Sorceress
before, and he now stood in her presence
as a statue, unable to speak or move,
CHAPTER     XI.           under some spell of her witchcraft or
some undefined reverence and awe of her
THE RED WITCH or WIssAHIKON.-..- appearance, after she had cast the piece
SEARCH FOR THE MISSING.       of money into his hat, which he had
taken from his head on her approach and
Agreeably to the arrangement he had retained, seemingly quite unconsciously,
made with Switzer, the waterman, George in his hand.
Dawson took his reel and rod and amused The Witch perceivingthat he lingered,
himself by fishing from the little pier, or and ga~ed after her as she turned toward
landing, at the boat house, during the home of the cave, again co~ifronted him
intermission when his services were not and in a voice of strange and bewildering
required by parties desiring to cross over import, yet soft as the tones of a lute,
or sail on the bosom of the Schuylkill; and sweet as the song of the siren is said
but was mindful to keep his appointment to be, addressed the amateur waterman
with the two strange gentlemen, and at and sailor-..
the hour appointed, selected one of the "hence! away, my son, adown the
neatest and~ fastest of Switzer's sailboats sparkling Waters to thine home, ere
and repaired to the Red Witch's Cove, yonder sun shall sink to his couch of
on~ the rocky banks of the Wissahickon. jasper and crimson and gold! Behold

/

L.

v~' ~'ow, even over thore, the black cloud that it threatened to submerge the frail
hanging on the left horn oftheearly barque on the instant; but by admirable
ii~ei~ crescent moon! It is the black skill in arranging its sails, George net
scairf of Evil, my son, foreboding sorrow only made the vessd fly over the water,
~til woe to thee and thine! Haste but kept in it perfectly ere~t position
away-haste away, I say. Quickly hie during the wrathful howling and beat-
thee over the dashing waters ere burst ings of the teippest. The storm, hew~
the thunder and blaze the lightning ther .wer. bc~terl scai4cely ten minutes, when
have power to scathe and destroy !" the wiiid~ were pushedd and rtature sunk
The Witch instantly disappeared, to a~serene repose, just as the sun beamed.
see~ugly as if she had sunk into the forth a gracious and parting sm~le,.and
bo~ls of the earth, Her words, how- yielded sway to the moon and the stars.
eve ug clearly in George Dawson'a A few moments afterwards George
ears, and presently recovering from his had secured his  boat under cover, and.
astonishment and stupefaction, he looked returned to his father's cottage, corn-
in the direction of the setting sub. pletely drenched and quite exhausted by
He instinctively comprehended some- his battle with the storm.
thing of' the strange speech of the Red He found his father and their friend
Witch. The western sky was already Switzer smoking their pipes and discus-
covered with a cloud black as ink, which sing the politics and affairs of the times.
came rushing on with whirlwind speed At length the gardener seemed to
as if eager to spread tI~e entire face of grow quite restless at the non-arrival of
heaven with a sombre pall, his daughter, and remarked
Quickly there was a wild flash of light- "The day has closed and Minny has
ning, and immediately afterwards a tre- not returned from the market. Our tea
mendous crash of thunder thali echoed will be late. I wonder what keeps her
and reverberated along the rocks of the absent so long. It is the first time she
Wissahickon, as if the entire artillery of has ever been ~o belated in selling her
heaven had been discharged at one fell flowers. Perhaps. she has waited some-
shock upon the earth. The lightning where till the storm was over. Yes, that
fairly burnt his face, while the crushing must be it. But she will hav~ a plea-
din of the 1~hunder stunned his hearing, sant walk home after the rain, which has
and utterly confounded every sense and made the atmosphere so fresh and cool.
faculty he possessed for some moments. Why, bless me, it is near eight o'clock
A heavy storm of rain was brewing, I do wonder what keeps the dear girl
and threatening to break in violence over away from her home l" Look you out
his unprotected head. He promptly un. there,,friend Switzer, and see if Minny
tied and launched his boat, furled its is coming."
sails, and darted down the stream. He, The old waterman rose, and walked to
however, had made but little progress to- the gate of the gardeu of the cottage
ward his home before the storm-spirit "Well, I m.ust say I have as good
arrested ha speed.                   eyes as most folks, but really as far down
The miii now fell in such torrents the lane as I can see, the girl la oertalnly


48                    THE BLU
not in view. A few moments longer,
more or less, will make small difference,
friend DawBoiR. I'll warrant ifte Ninny
will be here presently."
"In the matter of eating and drink.
ing, I can wait a little while. But it is
not that, friend Switrer. I don't know
why it is, but I feel very uneasy about
the poor child. Something must have
happened io her-sonic, accident-or---
or, oh God l let me not think of that!
Philadelphia has got to be a very wicked
place, friend Switzer, and since I read
* about so ~any seductions and abductions
*and murders of young maidens, I some.
times am alarmed at the thought of my
pretty daughter falling into the snares
and pitfalls which bad men now-a-days
are always setting for their prey. Minny
is a good girl and discreet, and knows
almost everybody iii the city, and per-
haps no harm will come to her. Come,
S'witzer, we will walk down the lane and
meet her, if she be approaching. It is
pleasant evening, and the breeze from
the river will refresh our bodies, Swit-
zer."
The two old men stepped into th~road
and were about to turn down th~ lane,
'in thedirection of the city, when George
Dawson made his appearance drenched
with the rain.
'~Ah% my son, you have returijed.
But what of the gentlemen you were to
bring back from the Wissahickon,
George?"~
"I have not seen them at all, father.
They had left the Witch's cave before I
got there; but they left the money with
the woman to pay me. Here is the
money, Mr. Switzer."
"Oh, I suppose they were some gay
larks,. on a little frolic, getting their for-

E BEARDS

tunes told by the old Sorceress. 'Pon
my word, they were liberal-hearted fel-
lows, to pay at this rate for your services,
George," said the old waterman,
"I think so too, although I have been
caught in the shower, and almost drowned
for my tro~ible," rejoined George, hand-
ing Nr. Switzer the money as he spoke.
"No-no, George. This gold piece
is yours. You have fairly earned it.
The money you gave me before, more
than pays me for the use of the boat.
Nay, I tell you I will n'ot have this coin,
George. You will offend me, if you re-
fuse to retain it, my lad."
"Well, well, Mr. Switzer, I must re-
main your debtor then till some other
time, that is all, sir. I will in now, and
change my wet clothes. Where's Ninny,
father! I do not see her in the porch,
as her wont. Have been to supper, I
suppose? I'm as hungry as a catainount.
Perhaps a cup of tea will keep me from
taking cold, after getting so well drenched
in the rain."
'No, George, we have not had our
evening bite. Ninny has not returned,"
said the father.
"Not returned! Ninny yet down in
the city! Gracious Heavens, can any-
thing have happened to detain her? She
never remained away so long from home
before, father I What would she be do-
ing down at the market when it is get.
t~ng dark? There must be something,
wrong father! The old witch over the
water, bade me hasten home before the
storm came up, and hinted strangely
about trouble coming upon me and /
mine! Do you know, father, ever since
that young girl was found dead floating
in the river, I have been afraid some
mischief would happen to sister Ninny?

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.      4'T

Who knows but she may have been j messed the grief of the old gardener would
spirited away by the villains who infest have melted down to flesh the flintiest
the town? I dread to think of it, fa- heart of any wrong-doer against the
ther! We must not let Ninny go to purity and welfare of the beautiful
market any more, father. She is grow-I maiden. He appeared as jf he would go
ing up a lovely young maiden, and it distracted in his sorrow and lamentations.
will not do to let her go forth again into Among other efforts for the recovery
the great den of thieves and villains; as of his missing si4er, George Dawson
it were, that the city has become, father." sought the aid of the Red Witch of Wis-
"My son, my son, what is it you say? saWekon. Her incantations, however,
You alarm me-make me mad! Ninny were scarcely to be relied on ~is affording
lost to me! Ivhinny wronged! Who any rtain indication of Ninny's fate.
would dare to do that? No, no, George~ is true, he looked into her "glass of
tell me not that-tell me not that! Destiny," and distinctly saw his sister
Ninny may have gone in to some shelter leave her home, wend her was' along the
from the shower that has just gone over, streets to the distant market according
Surely she will be along presently I Oh to her wont. There he saw her again
I cannot think any harm could ever with her flowers, amid a throng of people;
come to a child so lovely and good, as and finally bargaining with a gallant-
my dear Ninny is. But come, Switzer I looking man, whom he but too readily
come George; we'll go in search of her. recognized as a distinguished lawyer of
I could have no sleep, no peace, no joy the city, hut a well-known libertine, and
here in this cottage again, if anything leaving the market in his company with
serious should have happened to Ninny." her basket of roses on her arm. Here
"You and Mr. Switzer go along down the glass of Fate became suddenly oh-
the lane, father. I will change these scored. A dark shadow passed over its
wet garments and follow immediately." face, and Ninny's beauteous countenance
The father, brother and friend, made was lost completeI~ from his eager gaze.
diligent search in everydirection, visited At the same moment, the sword which
every neighbor, and soon interested many hung over his head in' the Sybil's cave
citizens in the welfare and fate of the while the Weird Sister's conjurations
missing girl. But not the slightest trace were being enacted, fell with a terrible
of her ~could be discovered since early ringing and clashing din to the stone
morning, when she was seen in the floor at~ his feet, cutting off a large lock
market with her flowers, as usual. , She of his hair in its descent, and coming
was soon after missed from her stand, near cleaving his skull in twain. The
but it was supposed she had sold out candles that burned on the altar also
and returned to her home. suddenly went out, while the myriads of
Four days passed without tidings of feline creatures set up such a dismal
We girl. During this time the anxiety caterwauling~ which was commingled
of her friends, particularly the distress with the mournful howling of~the la~'ge
of her father and brother, may be im- Newfoundland dog, that it appeared as
sgin~d not described. To have wit-I if all the fiends .of randemonilifli 1ts4

47


E9

A8

THE BLUE BEARDS

gathered there in the Sybil's home, ir
some terrible orgies of spirits damned.
George knew not how it was, but h~
suddenly broke away from the awful
rites of 'the terrible hag, nor looked be.
hind him till he reached the river, shen
he fell fainting in the arms of the old
Waterman Switzer, who had accompanied
him in his boat on hi~ errand to the cave
of the Sorceress.
The old man first laved George's brows
with the cool waters of the Schuyl~dll-
and then drawing a ~1ask of gin from his
pocket, rubbed violently the wrists and
hands of the stricken youth.
The swoon was only of temporary du-
ration, but on his recovery, the young
man refused to inform his friend Switzer
of what had occurred or been revealed to
him in the wild den of the Red Witch.
"Not now, good Switzerl Some
other time I will reveal all. Quickly
back again over the water. I have seen
my dear sister in the Witch's mirror!
But-but-oh God I Spars her! spare
her! Oh too late! too late! I fear my
poor sister is hopelessly ruined and in
the power of the viNlfla! I know him
well I IfMinny be lost.-utterly undone,
ho shall die I If a single hair of her
head has been harmed, he shall die I"
The old Waterman could comprehend
nothing of this wild ar~d mysterious lan-
guage. He at once concluded that
George had gone sad-stark mad, and
plied his oars to teach the city with all
possible speed.
The instant the boat touched the

lie was soon out of sight~ and the old
waterman did not venture to follow him.
He could only return to the gardener's
I cottage, explain matters as well as he was
able to George's father, and await the
issue of the wild youth's mysterious de-
signs.
ChAPTER XII.
WOMAN'S FRAILTY.-A HUSBAND'S
JEALOUSY AND REVENGE.
We leave the waterman in conversa-
tion with the gardener, in the cottage of
the latter, and George Dawson in frantic
pursuit of his missing sister, agreeably
to some mysterious information received
by him from the Red Witch of Wissa-
hikon, while we revert to other charac.
ters and other scenes necessary to be
noticed in order to a full elucidation of
our veritable narrative.
Among the young ladies who pursued
their studies at Mount Airy Female
Boarding Seminary, during a part of the
term while Mary Walton and her cousin
Ida were inmates of the same institution,
was Minerva Ilaybold, a your~g orphan
heiress, from New Orleans, who had
been placed in the care of tke Principal
of the Boarding School, by her ward, a
bachelor uncle of her mother, and now
her only living relative.
At the time Mary Walton first entered
the'Seminary, Minerva Raybold had been

shore, George sprang out and darted there several years, and was passing
away with the speed of thc blood-hound, through her graduating class. She was
and with all its savageness of disposition. now within a few months of attaining
as if with some purpose of deadly the cighitocuth veer of her age, when she
v~tent                               would. Vc.~orrie k'g;!!y the mistress of her
V

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.
own conduct and the possessor of the Such was the case. Several, of these
wealth of her ancestors. sued earnestly for her hand in marriage.
She was a young lady of more than Amongthese was Arlington, the rich mer~
ordinary personal loveliness and bril- chant, with whose character the reader
Jianc~ of intellect. Her education was is already partially acquainted. He was
most excellent, embracing the entire at that time, a man under thirty ~years
range of literature, to which were added of age-handsome and courteous, and
all the polite aArl fashionable accomplish, possessed of many outward manly at.
ments of the day-including embroider- tributes, well calculated, to enlist the
ir~g, dancing, itiusic, portrait and land- sympathies and affections of the gentler
s~ape painting, and the like, sex, whatever the hidden. principles of
She was a creature of remarkable joy. his bosom, or sentiments inherent of his
ousaess of spirit-a being in whose coun~ original nature. He was suac~ssful in
tenance happiness and sunshine seldom his addresses; Minerea Raybold became
or never shaded by a passing cloud of his bride, and entered upon a round of
disquietude or sorrow. Her complexion gayety and splendor.
partook of the soft fairness of the lily, What with balls, routs, soirees, and
delicately suffused with the rubescent all manner of fashionable advertisements
tints of the seashell. Her eyes were time rolled rapidly away. Her home
large and lustrous, the pupils of a ceru- was one magnificenthospitality, of which,
lean blue floating in a sea of pearly crys- at all seasons, a round of gay and intel?
taline humor. 11cr nose was Grecian ~ lectual c mpany participated
her mouth small-the lips pouting and It was at one of her parties that Wal-
parting like a fresh moss rose-bud cut in singham first became acquainted with
twain, revealing rows of teeth that seemed Mary Waltan, and following up his suit
like pearls. in their exquisite whiteness siibs~quently won her for his bride, al-
end brilliance. Her hair hung in a though as already detailed, her heat's
shower of golden silk down upon her affections had long centered in favor of
alabaster neck, full bust and symmetrical her now reported deceased midshipman
shoulders. Her form was petile and lover. Her union with Walsiagham v~~as
sylphAike; her feet and. andes beauti- solemnized about one year ater Minerva
fully turned, showing gentleness of pedi- Raybold had pledged her heart and hand
gree and pure aristocratic blood. Her in marriage with Arlington.~
voice was rich and melodious as the mu- Mrs. Arlington as yet gave no indica-
sic of the untamed forest bird. In short, tien whatever of a pledge of children, as
there seemed no grace and delicate volup- the fruit of love and faithfulness between
tuousness of figure, and no attribute of herself and husband. This fact had
mind wanting to the perfection of her now become a source of anxiety to both
being. She was Beauty's self in~every husband and. Wife. Arlington longed
physical and intellectual element, for an heir to inhrit his name and
A lady of such superior accomplish, rapidly increasing wealth, while his wife
ments, personal graces, and fortune, could was scarcely less iinptient to yield issue
scarcely be without a host of admirers, of her actions to the bosom of~ her
4D

4


bO          THE BLUE BEARDS                                  AND SCARLET RIBBONS.        51

liege 1oi~d. The absence of such token
of love, however, had. now produced an
amount of coldness in the feelings of
Arlington that threatened a complete
estrangement of conjugal ~sentiment be-
tween the twain. Indeed~ had not cer~
tam providential #~onsideraAjons of a mo-
nentary character outweighe~I the bitter.
ness and disappointment of both, in the
lack of issue, a violent rupture would
undoubtedly have been the reauh.
Arlington, after the marriage of Wal-
sirigham, who at the time was his part-
ner in business, in a branch establish-
ruent of the father of the latter, was
called to New Orleans on somebusiness
connected with' a final possession of his
wife's estate and inheritance in Louisiana.
His absence was unavoidably prolonged,
and he was still unable to fix a time for
a return to his home in I~hiladelphia.
Meantime, however, Arlington's house
was ever daily and nightly a scene of~
gayety and revelry. Visitors of both
sexes came and went, scarcely without
restraint, and with but little ceremony,
and p~irticipat~d in the pleasures arid
dissipatron which the generous hospi-
'tality of Mrs. Arlington permitted to be
pursued beneath her roof. These ex-
cesses finally were calculated to arrest
public attention,' from the promiscuous
character of the guests-the sumptuous-
ness of the entertainments, midnight
orgies as they really wore, given and
held by a young wife and most beautiful
and voluptuous woman, while her hus.
band was absent from home on business
in a distant Southern city.
There came to the entertainments
given by Mrs. Arlington, during her
husband's sojourn abroad, the savant, the
sawyer, the clergyman, the statesman,

the poet, and those of all grades of pur-
suit and rank in society, including even
the rouc and the gambler-among the
latter two sort of people, none more noto-
rious than a person ~ho we shall now
introduce as Colonel Burlington, aria the
youngnrcrehant, Walsirigham, who, how-
ever, had but recently married Mary
'Walton, the school companion of the
whilom Minerva Raybold, Arlington's
wife. Wakiinghaxn, in fnet, htwl been a
suitor for the hand of Minerva Raybold,
but the beautiful young heiress having
already pledged her troth to Arlington,
he was necessarily forced to look in
another quarter fora spouse, and, accord-
ingly became the husband of Mary
Walton.
The intimacy which subsisted between
the young wives of Walsirigham and
Arlington was naturally very free and
cordial. Indeed, so artless and confiding
was Mrs. Arlington, that Walsirigham
received her esteem and confidence-nor
did she dream that by so doing she ren-
dered her seemingly reckless yet really
virtuous conduct open to scandal in the
eyes of a censorious world. Her dispo-
sition was volatile-her affections warm
-her passions ardent-without a
thought of what mischievous conse-
quences would be likely to follow such
gayety of character, unbalanced by strong
reason and deep considerate reflection of
the proprieties and conventionalities of
society. She was a creature who acted
from the strong impulses of her nature,
nor reeked of the brink and peril upon
which she stood, in view of the arts and
alliances of the heartless sensualist
libertine and seducer, by whom she now
happened unfortunately tobe surrounded
fI~r sweet, gentle nature overflowed witi

sympathy of the purest character for all disposition, remaining at home. There
of humanity, while she did not seem to were music, dancing, feasting, and un-
comprehend that there could be such limited licence for all present to en-
things as treachery and wickedness in joy themselves as they might. The
the world.                           viands were rich and highly spiced-the
As before intimated, Walsingham was wines flowed in a very river of profusion,
an especial favorite with her; and, as a -while the entire sumptuousness and
itmatter of course, she' received his polite b~'illiancy of the occasion, were well cal-
attentions as mere gallantries, or, per- culated to banish all reserve among the
haps, at those tender courtesies which a guests-to incite recklessness of manner,
devoted brother only extends to a dearly and inflame all the amorous impulses be~.
beloved sister-~-.nothing more, tween the sexes. All soon became ab-
So marked, however, were Walsing- sorbed in' t1~eir own pursuits and pas-
ham's attentions to Mrs. Arlington, that sions, men and women participating in
his own wife noticed them and suffered that freedom and licentiousness of de-
the twinges of jealousy in. consequence portent only tolerated in the circles of
-although she could not believe that extreme faskiondble eo~iet.y
her dear friend Minerva would ever so Walsiugham soon engaged the beaut~-
far forget her self-respect to become in- ful hostess as his partner in the dance,
evolved in any~ntrigues detrimental to amid the many lovely women who were
her native purity of character. Albeit present. They were both remarkably
her own pure and sensitive nature sh'rnk graceful dancers, but' as they whirled in
from such terrible thoughts, and she the mazy and voluptuous waltz, their
strove, with such power as she was able feats of the "light fantastic toe," per-
to banish away unjust suspicions of crimi- haps neither excited especial attention,
(nality on the part of the young wife and nor elicited any 'impertinent remarks, so
her own husband, from her mind. She intensely w&amp;re all the gay company ab-
could not, however, abandon the know- sorbed in the merriment and socialities
ledge she already possessed of Walsing- of the evening.
ham's many intrigues and peccadilloes, Mrs. Arlington had takenn some-
committed before her union with him, what freely of wine, the effects of which
although she fondly wished that in his were quickly perceived by the salacious
newly married relation with herself, the Walsinghamu, as he held her in his arms
ardency of his passions, would never pass in the waltz. Her cheeks became flushed
beyond the bounds of proper conjugal -her bosom heaved, either with volup
restraint.                           tuous fires or else from the heat of the
At length, a grand entertainment was throng in the gorgeous saloon.
given by Mrs. Arlington. Her gorgeous Presently, she grew giddy-~her coum~-
saloons were thrown open to a largb tenanee turned to an ashy paleness, and
4~irele of fashionable acquaintances and she fell into a sickening swoon. Wal-
friends, among others.t~e merchant Wal- siagham quickly and apparently unper.
singham, who came u9iacoomnpaaied, his ceivecl led the be~tifnl woman to a
wife pleading some slight temporary in- small and secluded boudoir in the rear

e-
l'
1


AND SCARLET RIBBONS.       53

THE BLUE BEARDS

part of the mansion, which opened out
upon a large conservatory, now redolent
with the perfumes of a wilderness of
flowers. He placed her gently on a soft
couch-unclasped her waist, and laid
bare her bosom, proudly swelling in its
snowy and voluptuous glory. He dashed
a cup of water over her face, and thrust
a bottle of sal ammonia to her nostrils,
with a view to her recovery from her
fainting, condition. Then seized with a
strange. impulse he sprang to the door
and locked himself in th~boudoirwith the
stricken woman. Here he remained
sometime, when he came out into the
conservatory, and perceiving Arlington's
man-servant Armond, bade him Thi1 fe-
male attendants to wait upon their
mistress.
*      *       *      *      *
The ball was over. Arlington arrived
tt home a few weeks thereafter, and ap-
peared rather pleased than otherwise that
his fair young wife, had so gayly and
generously kept up the hospitalities of
his house during his hbsenc&amp; He
dreamed of nothing, suspected nothing,
implicating the purity of his wife.
Several months elapsed when he dis.
covere~l in a drawer of a bureau of hi~
wife's boudoir, a letter scarcely becoming
to be retained in the possession of a mar~
ned woman. It breathed a fervency ol
passion such as only lovers might feel in
the honied hour of impassionate suit
To this letter was attached a poetic
fictionate name, while it was without date
which proved very fortunate things a
the time. This amorous billet-doux an
rested the attention of Arlington, am
induced him to examine a number o
others that were its companions in th
drawer. They were generally letters o

friendship from her acquaintances, and
her uncle, with some few of a more
tender character that had been addressed
to her by gallants who had sought to win
her for a bride. They bore dates and
proper signatures which left no d~ubt of
havingbeen received by hiawifein an hono
rably way prior to his marriage with her.
His suspicions were aroused. The
letter was in the hand writing of his
friend and business partner, Wi~lsing-
ham. His wife's rotundity of form, also
indicated that she would shortly give
birth to a child. He thought of his
long absence from home, leaving his
young and fascinating wife exposed to all
the temptations of licentious society.
His bosom was filled' with doubt. The
more he doubted and reflected the more
convinced he became of his wife's infi-
delity. He could contain his suspicions
no longer. He produced the fatal docu-
ment and angrily charged the crime of
adultery upon her. A violent quarrel
was the result of her assertion of inno-
cence. He would not however be satis-
fied. He questioned his servants con-
cerning her private habits during his
long absence from home.
The revelations that were made, were
not calculated to relieve the uneasiness
of mind under which he labored. Nay,
F the proofs of his wife's guilt were clear
and abundant. His servant Armond ic-
lated the suspicious circumstance during
1 th~ grand ball, when Walsinghann had
been seen to come forth from the private
t chamber of Mrs. Arlington. The female
- domestics detailed the peculiar condition
I in which they had found the young wife,
f on that occasion, when they were sent to
e her assistance by the command of Wal.
f singham.

I,

I

Arlington now compelled his wife to
keep to the seclusion of her chamber,
and gave it out that she had suddenly
become afflicted with an eruptive malady,
of an infectious character, which pre-
cluded her from being seen by any one
save her female attendants and the phy-
sician. His word, backed by the solemn
assertions of the solemn-visaged tool
of Arlington, an unprincipled disciple of
Esculapius, was not questioned, and so
the matksr rested until she gave birth to
her child, and died' either from
the throes of labor or else from the ef-
fects of poison administered in some
wine of ergot that the physician admin-
istered at the time.
* The death of Mrs. Arlington was duly
proclaimed, but the knowledge of her
having given birth to a child was kept
a secret from the world. He procured
a private coffin, placed her remains in
the same, and left it to mouldert into
dust in the apartment in which the wo-
man had died, locking the door, and
sternly forbidding his domestics ever, to
enter the chamber upon penalty of his
great displeasure and punishment for the
offence.
Meantime, however, he ordered to be
procured a most sumptuous burial case,
with the showy hearse and mourning
habliments, and 'passed through all the
solemn ceremonials * of the obsequies, as
though he mourned the l~oss of his wife
and could not be comforted, when he saw
the empty coffin consigned to a vault of
the church where he so hypocritically
prayed and worshipped.
The midwife who officiated at the birth
of the child was the worthy old mother
O'Hara. This event took place during
the same day, and within a few hours

after her return home from the strange
and mysterious birth-bed of the an-
known~ darkly veiled lady of the gorgeous
mansion, whose location was also un-
known to her, somewhere over the waters
of the Delaware, on the dread night of
the terrible storm, as narrated in a pre-
vious chapter.
It was a strange coincidence, if nothing
more. She received from the dying
wife of Arlington a purse of gold, together
with a piece of jewelry precisely of the
same pattern and bearing the same initial
letters as the gem given her by the veiled
lady, whose child a few hours before
she had brought to her humble home.
The babe born to Mrs. Arlington wa~
also conveyed to her dwelling by com-
mand of Arlington, but being a very
fragile thing, it survived but a few hours
after Mother O'Hara's return to her
domicile. She buried it secretly in the
earth of her cellar, and kept her secret
from all except her daughter Norah.
The living child she soon disposed
of in a matter satisfactory to her~ hu-
manity and conscience. She managed
to make the merchant Arlington believe
that this child was the one that had been
borne to his wife, and received for many
years an annual suni of money for its
support.
At length, however, in the vicissitudes
of human affairs this protege of the mid-
wife and the merchant, became lost to
them both, in the death or removal of
the party in whose charge the infant girl
had been placed.
The reader will be at no loss to com-
prehend the strange ~conduct of the
mei~chant Arlington, when' he supposed
he had recovered his lost missing child,
in the person of the young maiden Mm-

I).


64

TILE RLUE BEARDS

tzy Thuwson, whom it had been his in which the Red Witch seems to have be.
tentiQi) to offer up on the alter of his come strangely cognizant
unholy lusts.                         "The more I have reflected, Captain,
But what of Minny Dawson? was she upon the statements which the Red
really the gardener's daughter, or the Witch has made to me in regard to the
the child born to the veiled lady, far Walsingham affairs, the more I am per-
over the waters, on that eventful night plexed how to proceed in the business.
of the howling storm?                 "She is evidently possessed of much
knowledge which vitally effects your in.
-                     terests in that complicated and involved
inheritance, I should say, my dear Con-
CHAPTER     XIII*          radin.'
"It would really seem so, Captain;
TuE TANGLED SKEIN or FATE.-Ex yet I sin not disposed to place much re-
TLIAORD1NARY REVELATIONS.      lance upon any vague knowledge the
Witch may possess as to the affairs in
The next evening after the disap- which I am so nearly interested."
pearance of Minny Dawson, from her "The facts she has detailed, you ad.
/ cottage home, two men were observed mit to be mainly true; why may she not
~eated in a private parlor of the City then be familiar on all those other points
hotel, engaged in a long and animated which are especially involved in obsen-
conversation with each other. They rity and doubt? She may possibly know
were the individuals whom George Daw- many things concerning the mysteries of
son had conveyed over the bosom of the the 'Haunted House,' and the tragic
~chuylkill in Switzer's skiff, on their horrors of that eventful night of the
visit to the Red Witch of Wissahickon. disappearance of your uncle Walsing-
The one was called Captain Vsn Vecktcn, ham and the rest, which. it would be
and theother was the person already in~ greatly to your advantage to discover."
produced as the young poet Conradin "You know, captain, she may have
Walsingham, in the opening chapter of picked up many things hy common re-
this narrative, who again appears upon port, and treasured them up for some
the tapis after an interval of more than sinister purpose, or it may be for mere
fifteen years, the most of which time was profit, who can doubt to the contrary,
spent abroad, his departuu~ takixig place my dear Captain."
soon after the death of his aged grand. "But she declined accepting your
father, and the inexplicable mystery purse for her professional services at any
which involved the fate of his uncle Har- rate, Walsiogham, and that fact alone
vey Walsingham, his aunt Mary, Id~i would not justify your suspicion of the
Walton, and Augustus Thornton. impurity of her motives and integrity,
Uhe conversation between Conradin allow inc to suggest, my dear sir."
Wal~inghain and Captain Van Veckten "Indeed it would no4 Captain; yet
related to the wierd woman, and matters were I constrained to summon her before
which deeply affected themselves, of I the courts, her evidence might be found

I

/

9

AND SCARI1E          RIBBONS.
merely the ravings of a maniac, and place, Conradin, I should at every hazard
ultimate to the greater damage of my produce the Witch's testimony, and
cause."                            trust to Heaven to defend and protect
"The woman, undoubtedly, is strange~ the right."
ly eccentric, but I have never been able "I believe you counsel wisely, cer-
to discover any thing like insanity about tam; and you have\ my heai'ty thanks
her, during the many years since I first for the disinterested interest ir~ my af-.
formed her acquaintance."          fairs from first to last."
"If she be not deranged, Captain, "Not at all-not at all. I, however,
yet she may have some dark purpose to feel, I cannot tell why, that your destiny
accomplish in her proffered readiness to is more nearly linked with the mystery
reveal those secrets, pretended or real, which surrounds the character of the
of which she confesses she is possessed Red Witch than has been thus far per.
in regard to the affairs of the Walsing- emitted you to solve She may indeed
ham family, of which it would seem I be Ida Walton herself-~-or some die-
am now the sole and unfortunate heir." carded mistress of your uncle Harvey
"Yet, Conradin, to know the worst Walsingham,-or, what is more likely,'
the fates have in store for you, could some~ cast-off paramour of Colonel Bur-
scarcely be more disastrous to your best rell; and in either case might prove a.
interests, than the dark and complicated material witness in the eluoidatio'n andr
mystery which hangs upon your auces- settlement of the legal difficulties in
tral name."                   ~     wJ~ich you have become ioly~d.'-'
"That is reasonable philosophy, I "Pooh, pooh! Captain, excuse me;
grant you, Captain. But there have been but really you make me smile at the idea
already so frequent ripping up of old of the Witch having been a mistress
wounds in regard to the conduct c~f my either of my uncle or Colonel Burrell-.
relatives that I feel that I would prefer~ both, you are aware, being men to whom
to shrink away in disgust, and abandon all the world has given the credit of good
my sitits-at-law in despair." taste, at least, in their gallantries and
"That would be foolish, indeed, while amours. Ha! hat ha! How absurd,
there was the remotest prospect of sue- Captain, to imagine that nq galleut
cess, or any reasonable chance to worry uncle, for instance, would have e'hosea
off and defeat your wily legal antagonist, a lady old enough to be his grandmother
Colonel Burrell."                  and ugly and withered withal I"
"The knave has already the lion's "Ah, I perceive you are inclined to
share of the estate, and seems likely to be facetious, my dear Conradin; but you
grasp from me even the old haunted consider that a period of fifteen or twenty
homestead--securing the oyster and years of extreme affliction and sorrow
leaving me only the empty shells, as my are long enough even to render the most
'rich inheritance' from my grandfather youthful and blooming of her sex prema-
and uncle, Captain." turely grey and decrepit as )the Rea
" So be it, if it must so happen, Wal- Witch now is. Certainly, when I first
singham. Nevertheless, were I in your saw her, she was a far different looking

A


THE BLUE BP~A'RDS
Woman from what she is now. In fact, my uncle's counting-house assistant,
she was a lady whose beauty and accom- Angustus Thornton, to have aroused the
plishments would not have reflected in jealousy of my relative and induced him
the slightest manner on the good taste to avenge any stain that he fancied had
of the most discriminating gallants what- been c~ist upon his manliness and honor.
ever the amorous impulses of their But I like not to dwell upon those dis-
bosoms." ' dressing events. Yet Captain Van Veek-
"True-true, Captain, I did not think ten, a thought has just struck me that
of the ravages time and trouble are cal- there has been, or may be now, a con-
cul4ed to make on the soundest of eon- neetion between this L~e~l Witch Marie
situations. ~or myself, at least, I can de Vaux and my aunt Mory or Ida Wal-
speak. Though yet' comparatively a ton. Possibly, she may ~be one ~ the
young man, scarcely passed beyond my other of these missing ladies. But, no-
third decade of years, I feel 'that I am I forget-she cannot be my aunt, at any
already falling into' the 's~ar and* yellow rate, as I have learned from her owr~
leaf'-all owing too the annoyances and aged father that she died in giving birth
vexations to which I have been subjected to her first ' child, a short time after the
in order to reinstate myself in what I fearful desolation which swept so sud-
have ever considered as my lawful in- denly over our house. This child, also,
heritance."                         I have been told, ceased to exist a few
"And ~et you was but a mere boy, hours after the death of its mother,
just passed ii~tu your tEens, when y6~ir T1B~tJ i~ifant, had it lived, would have
family b came involved in the calamities been the next heir to my uncles estate,
which now threaten the very existence instead of myself, as at present. Be
of the Walsingham family name-since this as it may, Captai~p, you promised to
you remain a bachelor, and are at the enlighten me in regard to the manner of
last of the name known to be alive, my your earliest acquaintance with Marie de
dear Conradin."                     Vaux, and youi relations.with her since
"That was a terrible blow; yet I have that period. Even now, if it would not
always been impressed that my uncle be trespassing too much upon kindness
Harvey Walsingham had nothing what- and time, I would be glad at once to hear
ever to do with the supposed tragedy of whatever you may be pleased to com-
that eventful night of his disappearance. municate in this regard."
He undoubtedly, in my ~judgment went "With all my heart, my dear Conra-
to New York to see to his missing ship, din. I am entirely at your service this
and possibly may have been induced to evening. If you will draw here with
embark on some voyage, and lost at sea. me into this corner, somewhat more out
As to the poor girl Ida Walton, I am of the way of impertinent listeners, you
sure she was rather a favorite with my. shall learn such portion of her strange
uncle than otherwise to have slain her history as it is in my power to communi-
in cold blood; while his wife, my dear cate. On what points in her career,
aunt Mary, was a lady of such sweetness would you be more especially enlightened,
and purity, and in that too discret to my dea" Conradin ?"
have been guilty of any impropriety with "Tell me, first of nil, about the year.

'I
)

AND SCARLET, RIBRONS.     57

or the' date of your first interview with
Marie de Vaux, if you please."
It was on the 13th of March, in the
year 18-, just fourteen years and four
months ago to this very day, sir."
"Upon my word, Captain, you are
very precise in your reckoning. There
must have been some extraordinary cir~
cumatance ab'~ut your first interview
with her to have impressed the time so
vividly upon your memory."
"Even so. When the boy applied fori
the situation of-.--"
"The bo~y, Captain! What boy? I
thought you was going to tell me the
story of Marie de Vaux, I wish to know1
something concerning the old Witch of
Wissahickon, my dear Captain !"
"She was the boy, of whom I was
about to 'peak, Conradin, when you in-
terrupted me
"Beg pardon, Captain. Proceed.
What of the boy ?"
"Yes; I must call her the lad, or I
shall never get the twist of the yarn I
would unravel."
"Well7 then7 the lad, what of him?"
"He applied for the berth of cabin
boy on board the Dutch galliott, the
"Stormy Petrel," of which I happened
to be the owner and master, and just
ready to sail out of the harbor of New
York on a voyage to Batavia.
"And you gave him the post, and
discovered "
"I discovered nothing at the time,
nave that a bright-looking little boy stood
before me, and solicited to make a voyage
in the capacity he had proposed. My
first impulse was to reject his application
on account of the fragile and delicate ap-
pearance of his frame; but on some
further inquiry into his motives for wish

ing to go to sea, they appeared so plau-
sible and reasonable that I consented to
his request and at once inducted him
into the duties he was to perform."
"$ut you knew /ie was a woman?
Excuse the bull, Captain."
"Indeed, I knew, nor even suspected
such a thing. Mete chance made me
cognizant of her sex, some time after-
wards."
"And how was that ?"
"I thought she was a wayward youth,
of some aristocratic fanTsily, from the
first, I admit; and I confess I l~ad a
sire to give the juvenile a taste of tl1~
sea, with a view to cure him of any rov-
ing propensity or romantic notions he
might have entertained of a sailor's life.
Yes, I will say further, that I meant to
make him serviceable to me-not exactly
in the eap~city of cabin-boy, merely, but
as my secretary, for I had discovered
that his calligraphy was singularly legible
and beautiful, and withal I pet-ceived
that he was an excellent reader, an dpos-
sessed other literary gifts of which I felt
myself lamentably deficient'
"I ixiderstand, Captain. Proceed."
"Well; I should have stated, thaf
this was my fir~t voyage as commander
of the 'Stormy Petrel.' My foster-
father-and you must' know, my deiw
Walsingham, there is also a spice of ro-
tuance about my own history, if you
would like to hear 'it at some time,
Conradin 1"
"Oh, certainly,' it would doubtless
afford me infinite pleasure to hear it nar-
rated, Captnin~"
"As I was saying, or about to say, it
was my misfortune to lose my foster
parent while the "Stormy Potrel' lay in
the port of New Yerk, eu a reti~rn

I


ii

53         THE BLUE BEARDS

voyage 'from Havana, from having con- hat, as if offended, appeared about to
treated the yellow fever. I had aceom- quit the apartment and the society of his
~panied him in all his voyages from the quizzing friend
time I was not much large than a marl~ Nay, captain, be not offended! Pardon
ing-spike; and so passii~ through all me, my dear sir! My remark was the
the grades of a seaman' life, I was at merest badinage. On my honor, Cap-
/ length entrusted by him with the sailing tam, I meant no imputation upon your
'of the ship, as 'its first mate, which moral character whatever. Excuse iiie,
position I had held for several years pre- sir, I pray you, and sit down and finish
vious to his death. I had, however, your story.
very little skill, or practice, with the "I have never yet bad my honor ir
pen, for the reason that the old skipper my word brought into.question, and-"
'generally preferredto keep the log and "Nay, nay, Captain; forgive my
attend to the ship's papers and writings thoughtless merriment. I really meant
himself; instead of performing severe no offense, and I trust you will not part
duties, now that he had began to descend from me now in any unfriendly manner."
the declivity of life. As I said before, "Well, Conradin, I confess my tern.
.1 soon perceived that I could make the perament is rather hasty, and lam not
lad useful to me in the capacity of a disposed to wear out any ~ne's patience
clerk at least, however his delicate health with my tedious yarns. I accept your
might allow~ him to serve me in another apology, however, in the same frankness
capacity, in the duties and perils on a in which it has been given. Let pass
board a ship at 'sea. la short, I em- whatever offensive has been said or done,
played him more for company sake than I will try and finish my story, as in my
from any other motive I believe, under poor way I shall best be. able, sir."
the afflictive dispensation of Providence "Thank you, thank you, Captain. Be
in the death of my foster-father, which pleased to relate what yen may know
continued to weigh upon my feelings." concerning the remarkable woman now
"You thought the sprightly conversa- in question. You shall have no further
tion of the handsome youth would com- interruption from me."
pensate, in some degree, for the wisdom "I have but littk more to add," con-
of your excellent foster-father," said tinned the Captain "The youth con-
Conradin with a significant smile to the ducted himself with great propriety
captain,                            during the voyage to Java-ac(juitted
"Whether you believe me, or not, or himself with alacrity and cheerfulness of
however disposed you may be to bagger every duty enjoined upon him-ia fact,
me in regard to my first acquaintance I found him every way so c~mpaniona.
with Marie do Vaux, I assure you that blo and pleasant th~ I felt a yearning
I-but no matter about the rest-I will and an affection towards him as of a
leave you, sir, to glean the Witch's his- father for a beloved son. .[ rejoiced in'
tory from some other source than mine" the acquisition that had been made to
The captain suddenly broke off his the ship's company, and counted upon
narration, and rising and taking tip his many voyages being made with him i~s

/

/

)

f

A ND 8SCA RL ]

my protege-even as I had shared simi-
lar relationship with the venerable skip-
per who had been so kind a friend and
father to me, the toero child that I was,
kiameless and homeless, when I fellundor
Providence, beneath his sympathizing
and guardianly care. You may be sure,
sir, I was greatly astonished when about
to return from Java; while at Batavia, to
be informed that my young clerk was a
woman. It was then that I more clearly
comprehended the motivess which influ-
enced her to assum~ the habilimonts of
the opposite sex and risk the perils of an
ocean life. ~ufflce it to say, she cher-
ished some sweet pi~rposo in visiting the
island, and begged permission to remain
behind till she should be able to accom-
plish the end thereof. I was convinced
that her story was true, and sympathized
with her wrongs. It was enough for me
to apJ~rehend that the wrong-doer was
supposed to be living in some part of
Java, and therefore I questioned ~ier
neither concerning her own proper name
nor the one borne by the villain for whom
she was in ~uch determined pursuit.
When I offered to provide her with funds
to further her designs, I found that her
means were amply abundant. Indeed,
she also insisted upon paying for her
passage out, although she had served me
~aithfnlly as a hand on boai~d the ship, to
which proposition, of course, I would
not listen. ' I provided her a comforta-
ble home, in the bosom of a family of a
respectable Dutch merchant, to await
the issue of her affairs, and continued
my' pursuits at sea. I parted from her,
and did not meet her again until ten
years afterwards, when I found her still
sojourning at Batavia, and brought her
back a passenger in my ship to New

58

~T RIBBONS.                      59
York; I have never dared, or rather
have never wished to lift the veil of mys
tory that surrounds her being, having
ever been satisfied that the secrets of her
bosom are of that holy and sacred kind,
not to be wantonly trespassed upon by
the impertinence and curiosity of a med-
dlesome and malicious world. Latterly,
however, I have come to the conclusion
that she is in some way or other connect-
ed with the destiny of your long-missing
uncle, Harvey Walsirigham, which sur-
mise is greatly strengthened by the state-
ments she made to you yesterday about
your family affairs. You have now, my
friend Walsingham, all I am at present
at liber1~y~(o disclose of~zhe story or his-
tory of the Red .Sorceress of Wissa.
hicko~i."
"The narrative is certainly a remark.
able one, I must confess; yet I do nqt
perceive that what we knowof her history
is calculated to help me through my diffi-
culties in the least."
"Time must determine that. Perhaps
at your next interview with her, you
might be able to arrive at a different con-
clusion. When I met you, C~nradin, at
Batavia, in search of. testimony among
your uncle's and grandfathers eorres~.
pondents, it struck me, even then, that
the 'Red Witch,' as she is now called,
if she 'could be found, on your return
home, would be able to enlighten you
greatly' in regard to the Walsiugham at'-
fairs. Her associations were largely
among your relatives' friends during her
stay in Java, and she could scarcely avoid
not becoming cognizant of many things
of great importance now to yourself. It
was the merest accidentthat I learned a
short time since, that my whilom pretty
'female-cabin-boy' had become so my~-


60                   THE BLU
seriously metamorphosed into the lied
Witch of Wissahickon. This was the
motive I had for diverting your attention
in that direction.".
"We have then, as you say, only to
await the issue of events, Captain. We
cannot pull aside the curtainof the Past
nor lift the veil of the Future. I must
hide accordingly my time. But that lit.
tle romance in your own history, Captain.
It is yet early. Will you narrate it
now?"
"As you please, Walsiugham. I will
make the story very short. I am fortu-
nately able to give it more succinctly
from a manuscript I happen now to have
with me, which document I found among
the papers of my deceased foster~father.
It is to this effect: When I was a child'
apparently about five years of age, I was
*bund lying asleep under a small boat,
which was placed bottom upwards on the
deck of a schooner, which my foster-1
father, Captain Van Veckten, com-
manded, after it had left the wharf at
Philadelphia and put to sea. I was too
young to give any intelligible account of
the manner how I came on board, or
eve~i to give my family name. The
Captain, however, took pity on my for
bra condition, and although he realized
that my parents must hay experienced
poignant sorrow at my t~ them unac-
countable disappearance, he did not feel
warranted to put back to port and sur-
render me to my friends. The voyage
was to Canton, and it was two years be-
fore he could return to Philadelphia and
institute inquiry in my behalf. lie ad-
surtised the circumstances under which
I was found on board his ship, but re-
ceived no response to his details. Mean-
time he gave mc his own name, and con-

tinted to me as a friend and father, from
t~he first hour he saw me till the day of
his death, a period of about twenty years
altogether. It may interest you, also,
my dear Walsiagham, that I have still
in my possession the identical suit of
clothing I wore at the time I was dis-
covered in my infancy, so to speak, on
board the 'Sea Gull,' which was the
name of the craft, my good old friend,
the skipper Van Veckten, then com-
manded. I have likewise a full length
portrait of myself, which the old Cap~ain
caused to be painted on his return voyage
with a view to ray identification by my
friends. Besides these things, I have
likewise a miniature of a lady, doubtless
that of m~y mother, which was concealed
in my bosom, suspended by a fine gold
chain from my neck, at the time I was
found by the Captain on board his vessel.
This bauble. and the other articles, may
possibly one of these days afford a clue
to my own legitimate origin, though so
many years have already passed,. I
scarcely expect now 'ever to be en-
lightened on so important and interest-
ing a point."
"Really, Captain Van Veckten, your
own history is equally remarkable with
that of the Wierd Sister of the Cave.
It is certainly a romance in real life, cx-
ceeding in interest any novel I have ever
read."
"Indeed, Conradin, my adventures
~from first to last would make a book
quite as entertaining as that of either
"Sinbad the Sailor," "Jack the Giant
Killer," or even "Oulliver's Travels,"
rejoined the Captain with a quirzical cx-
pression of his countenance 'and a merry
twinkle of his eye, as if he meant to say,
he took Walsiagham's compliment as e

1*

BEARDS                                                                                                                  61
joke, that his own yarn wakaroma~~
more interesting than a novel-~..)
"Upon my word, Captain, you are
quite a wag, any how. But I seriously
mean what I say. Were your life and
adventures given to the world, they
would doubtless make up a veryreadable
volume; while there would be an excel-
lent chance likewise of its falling into
the hands of persons who would be
pleased to claim consanguineous affinity
to the author. There's no knowing,
Captain, what might be the upshot of
such a publication."
"Yes, it might be the means of re-
covering for me a father and mother, and
any quantity of uncles, aunts, brothers,
sisters, cousins, and other relatives to
the last drop of lineal blood -and all the
consecutive ~
"Have you ever related your story to
the lied Witch, and consulted her ora-
culai powers in regard to your parentage
and birth, Captain ?"
"Indeed I have not, my dear Conra-
din; but, since you have reminded me1
of it, I will consult with her in regard
thereto one of these days, by way of cu-
riosity, nothing more, when I would be
pleased to have you present, Walsing-
ham."
"Oh, certainly, by all means have
your fortune told! You seem to place
confidence in her revelatiOns in my re-
gard, why not trust her with the hidden
things pertaining to your destiny? If
nothing important should come of her
divinations; at least, nothing very alarm-
ing is likely to come of them."
"The interview with the Red Witch,
indeed, might possibly lead me to dis.
cover who lam, eh? Conradin. A cer-
tain ancient Greek Philosopher, used to

liT RIBBONS.

proclaim 'know thyself.' I will see
what I can do in fulfilment of his in.
junction in my own case, at any rate."
"Sooth, Captaiu, it might turn out
that you and I are blood relations! It
would be curious, really, if after all our
jesting, you should prove to be that
other missing uncle John Jacob, brother
of my father Louis and of my uncle
Harvey Walsingham, who was unac-
countably lost to our family when he
was about the age you were 'when dis-
covered asleep under the jolly boat at
sea ~: Ha, ha, ha! Who knows? Many
a ~ihg has occurred in this world as
strange as that would be, ~hould it so
happen thus to fall out, Captain."
"I a Walsingham? The idea never
struck me before. Good god! It may
indeed be the case-as-as.-~-may easily
be proved. You have some recollections
of your grandmother--of my motILer-~-.
that is, if I should happen to be the
John Jacob missing member of your
family. You have portraits or your
grandmother, have you not, Conradin ?"
"Why certainly. Not only of her,
but portraits and heir looms of my grand-
parents on both sides of the house, be.
Bides of other relatives, including John
Jacob, the latter painted only a short
time before he disappeared. And-es I
live, Captain-yoa have every feature
and lineamentof the Walsingham family?
That prominent nose-those eyes Yes
-every expression-your very smile-.
every thing-stature and all-now vi-
vidly recall to my vision that other long
missing uncle, Harvey Walsingham I"
"Eaough-enough t We will com~
pare the pictures, Conradin-and-aud
-the lied Witch, we will visit her again,
and use her craft to unravel, if possible,

61


THE BLUE BEARDS
all these mysteries t1i~t are so dark and han the one who had plundered the'
impervious to our apprehensions at pre- \Valsingham estate, and by legal chica.
sent."                             liery and villainies, would have beggared
The two friends agreed upon the hour the sole heir, the young Conradin Wak
when they would repeat their visit to the singham, forever. This individual was
Red Witch of Wissahiekon; and after the infamous Colonel Burrell, notorious
some casual remarks concerning the dis- as a heartless duellist, libertine and pro-
appearance of the Flower girl and the fligate-a wretch that scrupled at no
mysterious occurrence at the Theatre in means whatever in the accomplishment
which Balty Soweraby was stabbed by 'of his diabolical purposes.
some unknown person, while endeavoring Why watched George in front of this
to defend his sweetheart, Sarah Bulser, man's dwelling? Did he imagine that
from his impertinent intrusion and in- his young and sweet sister was confined
eult, Captain Van Yeckten and Conra- within his mansion and made the vile
din Walsiugham took leave of each for creature of his lustful passions. Even
the evenings                       so h~ thought; but he was on a wrong
scent altogether. The spectres he had
seen in the Witch's "Glass of Fate"
were incorrectly portrayed, or else his
CHAPTER     XIV.          ~ueatal perception had become confused
in the strange and dark revelation that
NOCTURNAL MYSTERIES,         had been made to 'him. The wretch
-                   whom he saw pictured to his vision,
Turn we again to George Dawson. though a foul villain, was nevertheless
We have seen him spring from the' small guiltless of having committed any crime
boat at the moment of its landing, near or outrage against the purity of his young
his father's cottage, and dart away frem and lovely sister.
the side of the old waterman Switzer, ~fhe house of the merchant Arlington
in a distracted state of mind, in view of indeed, into which Ninny had been de-
some disclosures that had been made to coyed, was scarcely a stone's throw from
him by the Red Witch of Wissahickon, the dwelling of Colonel Burrell; but
in regard to tLel probable fate of his George did not for a moment suspect the
inisAing sister Ninny, the "Flower real character of Arlington, nor dream
Girl."                             that his sistcr~had fallen under his sala-
Refusing even to disclose his purpose cious eyes, or that he could have sought
to his friend Switzer, but leaving the old her in sacrifice to the couch of infamy
man amazed and vexed at his seemingly and shame.
wild and reckless ~onduet, he hurried The house of Colonel Btwroll was
his steps to the lower part of the city, closed as if entirely unoccupied. George's
and took up his station under th~ shadow first impulse was to knock at the door
of a tree, almost immediately in front of and demand admittance; but his better
the house of one of the most eminent judgment soon suggested that he should
lawyers of the city-none other1 indeed, act with proper caution and firat cii.

I

AND SCARLI~ RIBBONS

deavor to obtain some tangible confirim~ f .uw t1w~e hounds of perdrt.~on and have
tion of the terrible phantoms conjured to vengaacu upon thea~ at whatever the.
his senses by the power of the, Red Sor- peril 1"
caress of Wissahickon.                George darted after the coach and sue-
The night was wearing tediously away. needed in throwing himself upon the
At length the clock of Independen~e tail-board, where he clung 'tightly to the
Hall was heard striking the midnight girths, and remained secure and unob.
our. Scarcely had it ceased number- served in the position he, had so timely -
ing the hours when a mail evidently en- and fortunately gained. "The carriage
eloped in something that resemble~I a rolled onwards through, many a street,
disguise of his face and person, stole out reached the Ridge road, and again di-
cautiously from the basement part of the verged by a lane towards the old~Potter's
dwelling to the pavement, and looking Field at ]3ushhill. Soon this 'burial-
stealthily around and perceiving no per- ground was reached. The carriage drove
son visible, he was heard to remark: up among a cluster of small trees near
"Yes, comrades, the coast is clear. Be the entrance of the enclosure, when the
quick now, and our job is done before men lifted out the box and carried it to
the Colonel returns." a large tree that stood at one corner of
Immediately two persons came up from the grounds.
the same basement way, bearing upon George meantime dropped down from
their shoulders something that appeared his position at the rear of the carriage,
like a long box or coffin, covered with and gaining 'a thicket of bushes unper..
cloth or canvass. This they quickly ceived-by the light of the full moon
bore off to the corner .of a dark street which was now rising and shedding a
near by, and plac~1 in ~a carriage that glorious refulgence. over the face of na-
stood in Waiting, into which the two men ture-was enabled to observe all the
also entered, affrer having bade the driver movements of the men he had followed
to depart to some designated places to the field of the pauper-dead.
George watched from his hiding re- The grave was already dug and the
treat the mysterious movements of the grave-digger stood waiting to embowel in
men, with a nervous excitement so in- the depths of the earth the dead remains
tense that his qycs grew fairly dim. of a human body.
What burden was that, which was 'borne The coffin was lowered, the clods were
along so quickly apd stealthily by theac thrown down upon its lids, and the grave
muffled men? Could it indeed be a cof- speedily filled with earth,
fin, or any other similar receptacle for Meantime one of the men returned t~
the ~1ead? A wild, dark, suspicious the carriage and went backwith the driver
thought flashed though the brain of the to the heart of the city. His companion,
young man.                          however, remained with the grave.dig~er
"Oh, God I It must be so! My sis- till the last shovel full of rnQnld was bat..
ter violated and murdered, and they are :~1~~tlY down on the grave, when he
bearing her away to the grave! I ed:
be assured that such ~s the fact. I will! "By all the ghosts of the paupers an4

.l

63

,f
- r

9


fl-b                  THE     BLUJ
murderers who have been buried here, I
am glad that this job is through with I
What say you, my worthy old friend,
Philip?"
"Oh, I mind it nought, Wilkins. It's
the pay that I look at. It will be a good
job, I'll warrant me, when it's all over~.
You see, I have yet to remove all this
fresh earth to yonder new made grave,
and this pit is to be made level with the
surface and covered again with the green
sods, so that none shall be the wiser of
this night's work! Before sunrise,
there'll be clean work of it, Wilkins, I'll
warrant me, ha! ha! ha!"
The old man began to wheeze and
cough, from a turn of asthma after his
garrulous rejoinder to the man he called
Wilkins.
"Aye, Phiiip; and I dare sayiL i~ Xiot
the first body you have buried in these
~~rounds at midnight, or rather in the
quiet hours of the morning. You have
played the resa ectionist, doubtless too,
Philip, ek? But no matter; yo~u' al-
ways get good pay for your services, and
so you take no further concern of other
people's business, eh ?"
"Mum's the word with me! The
Colonel pays handsomely for this little
business, that's certain; but don't ~ou
think it a great pity that the young and
pretty girl should have come to her death
in the manner I'm told she did, Wilkins ?"
"Well it was rather an ugly business,
Philip! But it' was a sort of accident
after all, and couldn't be helped, you
know. Let's say no more about it. As
I live4t is striking one o'clock! There's
a party having a carouse and a dance
over there on the Schuylkill~ at the
"Jolly Boatman's"~ tavern. 1 believe
~ ['11 go over and see the sport. Come,

i BEARDS                             AND SCARLET RIBBONS.

Philip, and get a drop of something to
stop that wheezing of your whistle9
uncle. The landlord keeps a good mug
of ale, I assure you, Philip."
"Nay, nay, Wilkins. I must remain
here. This grave must be made up in
decent or~er, and I've little time to
spare before the slay breaks. Get you
along yourself~ if you will, and thanks
for your civilly, young man~"
Wilkins turned to leave the ground,
when George Dawson darted 'from his
hiding place and seized him by the
throat.
"No, villain! You shall never leave
these fields until I know whose remains
are buried here! Tell me of Minny
Dawson! You know my sister, the
'Flower Girl.' Is she dead and buried
here ~ SpeakA or I 11 choke the life out
of y' ur body!"
Had an apparition appeared, the old
grave-digger could not have been, more
alarmed, and he stood shaking like one
in a fi~of the ague; while Wilkins was
so firmly held in George's grasp, that he
could neither move nor speak.
"Speak, wretch, I say, and tell me
who is buried here ?" again demanded
young Dawson.
The man, gasping for breath, managed
to mutter:
"I don't know any thing about the
girl, or how she came to her end."
"Lying dog of hell, you 'know all
about the matter, as I have just over-
heard you say! Speak, villain, or I'll
strangle you to death on the instant,"
said George, firmly clenching the man'e
neck and then suddenly hurling him
headlong to the ground. "And you,
hoary old seountrel, as I know you to be!
Dig me now, instantly, anotl~r grave!

Dig a pit, I say, on this very spot! I
shall here avenge my wronged 'sister's
death! As there is a God in Heaven,
neither this wretch nor yourself shall
leave these grounds, till I know of the
hellish arts by which the poor child has
come to this dismal end! Dig the pit,
I say!"
"Aye, good master! I'll dig the pit!
I'll dig the pit! Little do I care who
employs me, or whose bones they hide
away in the earth! So that I get the
money for the job, it's nothing to me-
nothing to me," stammered th~ old
wretch in his fear, although seemingly

ready enough to bury even his ;best
friend alive, in his avarice and greed.
"Dig here! dig here! Open a hole
quickly, and let me hurl him in, I siiy,
hoary old Mattoeks !"
George again darted to the fellow
Wilkins, and threw the whole weight of
his body on the man's neck and chest
"Speak, sir! If you are guiltless of
my ~sister's death, you shall depart with-
out further harm. If you will not tell
me all you know, you shall perish on the
instant !"
"Oh, you needn't ~crush the breath
out of my body! I'll tell you all I
know about the ugly business, Master
Dawson !"
"Well, do it, quickly then !"
"The girl was young and pretty, it is
very true, but what her name and
whence she caine, I can not tell you, sir!
But of her death I am entirely innocent!.
Indeed, as Cod shall judge mc! lam,
Mr. Dawson."
"Who then is 'her destroyer? How
did she come to her death! Reveal the
truth and your life shall be spared."
"So I will-so I will, sir. Return

with me now, to the house of Cobuel
Burrell, and you shall know everything
about this work of crime and h~rror."
"I will trust you, sir. Arise, and
we'll go instantly to the accursed mur-
derer's den."
"I'll not deceive you, sir, that I will
not! Indeed, I am anxious to release
my conscience of the affair, and I care
not if judge and jury shall hang me for
my part in the foul deed!"
"Enough I" cried George, ~letting
Wilkins rise to his feet, but keeping
him firmly grasped by the collar of his.
coat. Turning to the old grave-digger,
he added:
"Hark you, old man! Finish up the
dark work you have begun, nor disturb
a sod again till you ~ar from me, at the
peril of your life! There, take that, and
begone from here, as soon as possible."
He planed in the hands of the old
man sevem4ml pieces of coin as he spoke;
and, grasp ing Wilkins' arm, hurried
away to the mansion. He had no time
now to drop a tear over the grave of his
supposed sister. His whole soul was
absorbed with ofie terrible idea. His
bosom burned for vengeance upon' the
suspected seducer and murderer!

CHAPTER XV.
Tim DEATH STRUGGLES

Wilkins was by no means the equal of
George Dawson, in physical power, iron
muscle, and elasticity of movement, and.
having had proof of this fact already, he
walked rapidly at the side of his young
I and vigorous adversary, without either a

U
44
I
:1

BEARDS


'1
'1
K

~I1E BsLtTE BEARDS

murmur or any attempt at resistance or
escape. George, however, was too wary
to be thrown off his guard for an instant,
and was ready to inflict summary pun-
ishment upon Wilkins the moment he
should detect anything like treachery or
bad faith on his part in the promise he
had voluntarily giVen to accompanyy him
to the house of Colonel Burrelt.
They hurried along in silence, and
reached a' rear avenue that led to the
stable and carriage house of the libertine
Burrell, just at the moment that the town
'clock struck the hour of two o'clock in
the morning.
The front part of the house was closed
'snd had the appearance of being entirely
untenanted The rear, however, was
brilliantly illuminated, while strains of
inspiring music, commingled with the
sounds of revelry, came forth upon the
balmy zephyrs of the morning hour.
Colonel Burrell had returned from the
theatre with a large party oi~ his friends,
including a celebrated actress, in order
to partake of a champagne supper, for
which he bad previously arranged with
his French cook.
Thus it was, youth and beauty, the
gay and the thoughtless, were there as-
sembled, at that hour of night in the
elegant and ample mansion of the dis-
tinguished citizen and lawyer, libertine
and villain as he was well known to be
by the inhabitants generally.
Thus it was that bright eyes flashed
amid the glare of light from innumerable
wax candles that filled the cups of the
great chandeliers whose glass pendants
hur~g down like diamond lobes, and
sparkled brightly in the refulgence that
was shed around.
Thus it was that the merry strains of

music arose on the calmness of the nioOri-
shiny night-that the shuffling of many
feet, and the joyous laugh, fold that the
hours were being passed in the reveiryof
a social and impromptu ball.
IDawson and Wilkins passed through
the stables and stood, in the middle of the
garden beneath the shadow of a huge
Italian chestnut tree, and watched the
movements of the revellers as they
passed to and from the windows, up and
down the large saloon, in the mazy evo-
lutions of the dance.
Presently young iDawson caught a
glimpse of the tall and elegant figure,
'and dark grizzly hair, of the owner of
the mansion. He saw him bend his
smiling face close to the ear of the ac-
tress and whisper something into her
ears that caused her to smile bewitch-
ingly, and to cast upon him a glance-
oh, too full of 1~he wanton's coquetry and
cunning, yet concealed, in sonic degi-ec,
under the mask of prudish behavior,
from the eyes of such persons as night
by chance be Witnesssing the intrigue
that was going forward between the sin-
ful pair.
"Accursed villain!" exclaimed George,
"I can contain myself no longer! I
will rush in on him, and slay the vile
seducer and murderer in the midst of his
carnival of merriment and sensuality !"
He made a bound as if to put his
thoughts into execution; but Wilkins
sprang forward also, grasped him by the
arm, and, holding him back, exclaimed:
"Nay, nay, Dawson! Be not thus so
rash and headlong, lest you fail in your
deep retaliation of the man. Learn first
the particulars of the young woman's
death, ere you stain your own soul with
human blood! believe me, young man,

I'
/

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.

67

I am iwww your friend, and till do all in "I swear by the Holy God I have told
my power to assist you in bringing the you ~nothing but the truth! There!
wrong-doer' to justice. But not yet-not Oh Heavens! back! she stands before
yet! 'IPitue enough iThen this gay com- me now! Take her away! Take her
pany shall nave returned to their usual away: The blood is streaming from her
haunts and homes. In here, Dawson, throat! Take her away! Any shape
and I'll show you the room1in which the but that! Mercy! Oh, God! mercy-
poor girl breathed her last. The great mercy T"
God in heaven help me," he added, after "What meanest this outcry, cowardly*
a short p~use, "for the hand I had in wretch? Would you alarm the house
her death! It was through me, Daw- and entrap me likewise into the power of
son-I own it all, sir-that the girl was the foul fiend ?"
enticed to this foul den; but farther "Nay, nay, sir! I surely saw her but
than that, I am guiltless of her death. this moment pass before my eyes, with
Yet I do not shrink from the punish- th~ blood streaming from her throat.
ment due to my crimes. The piteous But that could not be. No-no! We
supplications of the poor girl, even now buried her-buried 'her there by the old
ring in my ears. I feel as though 1 oak in the Potters Field! I remember
were the guilty monster who plunged all now. It was like a dream'! I thought
the dagger to her heart! Oh, sir, she she was here again in this room, just as
is not the first victim of the villain's I first saw her with her throat cut and
lusts! Many fair creatures have within and the blood gushing from the wounA.
these accursed walls been despoiled of Great God, pardon my crimes. Kneel
th~4r purity-some indeed, willingly here, Dawson, with me, and let a
yielded themselves in sacrifice to gold, brother's prayers be joined with mine to
but, alas, 'too many forced to succumb to remove this foul crime from my soul!'
the scoundrel's power and lusts !"     Wilkins, trembling in every limb, fell*
While Wilkins spoke; himself and to his knees on the floor, and commenced
George passed stealthily into the hall, a supplication to Heaven in loud and
and entered a rear room, on the second seemingly agonized tones.
floor, immediately above the one in which Dawson grasped the wretch's throat
the revelry was held. The moon shown and choked to silence the lamentable
full into the room and every object was wailings that he uttered. Suspicious of
almost as distinct as in the light of day. treachery, he could not believe that Wil-
"That couch there," said Wilkins, kins was sincere in his professions of
"was the death-bed of the unhappy girl 1" penitence; hence he viewed this strange
"On yoi~r soul's salvation, is the tale conduct as a trick or artifice to place
you tell me the truth ?" cried Dawson, him af ~he mercy of his master, Colonel
in the '~udden impulse of his gushing Burrell, and defeat the accomplishment
passion, and shaking him lustily, as if of his vengeance upon the foul wronger
'he would strangle him on the sopt. of his sister's loveliness and purity.
"hold I hold I 'Dawson! Do no~ "ls this th1e way, whimpering scoun
choke me to death !'! muttered 'Wilkins; drel, that' you would assist me in my
r

it,
i~
I
I
A

1)

O


K (

THE BLUE BEARDS

vengeance upon the destroyer ot my poor 'the influence of wine, at length ascended
sister ? 1Ishall not trust you now. There the stairs to his sleeping apartment, his
you shall lie, till I shall finish the pur- servants having retired some time before
pose I've began !"                    him to their chambers in a distant wing
He strgik the kneeling man a power- of the mansion. The bedrbom of the
ful blow across his temples which caused Colonel adjoined that in which Dawson
him to fall over utterly insensible to the reclined, and communicated with it by a
floor; but not satisfied with this he pulled door in its centre.
down the window drapery, tore it into The moment George saw Burrell enter
strips andi tied the stricken man's hands his chamber, he glided into it, closed the
and feet in a manner to render it impos door, and turned the key in the lock,
sible for him to rise from the floor, on before the Colonel was aware of the pres-
his recovery from his prostrate and in- ence of an adversary. The Colonel,
sensible state.                       however, observed the intrusion, and was
.The building shook with the merry the first to speak
tread of feet below, so that whatever " What mean you, sir, by that act ?
noise had been made by Dawson in fel- who are you that dare -intrude into my
liug and pinioning the wretched Wilkins apartments Burglar !-robber ! Be
in the upper room, was entirely unheeded gone, sir !"
by the revell!r in the dancing hail " Neither the one nor the other ! nor
George threw himself on the couch on shall Il'leave- until I have avenged a sis-,
which he believed his sister had yielded ter's loveliness and honor. You nrc her
up her life, placed his hands to his eyes destroyer, and your life shall be the for--
and wept like a child. The powerful feit of her shame and death.'
young man-a mere boy still in years, " A rc you maO, villain ?" said Burrell,
but the stalwart and muscular man in in alarmn.
stature-now felt himself deprived of " No ! but my brain is now cool and
his strength. Every muscle relaxed, collected ! Prepare to defen d your life
and he trembled as the aspen leaf, in as you way be able ! I saw her body
the strange reaction of his physical and buried in Potter's Field by your minions,
nervous powers.                      this very night. Her blood cries for yen-
How long he remained in this condi- geance upon her seducer and murderer !
tion he hardly knew, but he found him- Colonel Burrell, you must die."
self aroused to a consciousness of where \" Patrick ! Wilkins! !ho! help! thieves!
he was, and the diteful purpose for which burglars ! murder-murder 1" cried Bur-
he had entered the sumptuous mansion rell, in a loud voice, making an effort to
w'hcre he now so quietly reclined, break towards the door of the room, that
The gay guests had retired to their led to the hill of the staircase. '
homes, and the first glimmnering of Au- " Nay, sir ! you shall not foil me thus !
rora's light was beginning to be observed Your outcries shall avail you nothing.
beneath the darksomie clouds -of the One of your minions has already felt the
eastern sky. -                        weight of my wrath, and is stretched'in
Colonel Burrell, considerably under death ivithin the apartment there! Cry

/

/
I

U

'I

AND SCARLE

again for help, and your brains shall be-
smear the walls! Yet you may have a
chance for life. Take this pistol, but
first inform me of the poctr girl's death !
Answer me quietly or die the death of
a dog !"
"I know nothing of yourr sister, sir !
There was a young maiden who declined
may love and gold, and ended the matter
by cutting her throat. That's all Iknow
of the silly business, sir! Begone ! leave,
I say !"
" Declined your love and gold ! Well
might- the lamb reject the- embrace of
the wolf! ,Better to die a suicide than
be dishonored by the foul pollutor of in-
nocence ! But she has come to her death
through your means, sir. Ta re this
weapon. One or both of us must surely
die !"
Burrell took the proffered pistol, and
instantly discharged it in the face of his
adversary. Fortunately the ball only
grazed his cheek, leaving a mark, and
causing a slight flow of blood. ,
" Miserable paltroon," cried George,
"your life is now completely in my po wer !
Yet, if you have another pistol, procure
it, and make the best of your chance for
life."
Burrell gazed around the room, and
then quickly scanned the physical pro-
portions of Dawson in contrast with his
own. D~awson's frame was certainly
considerably larger and heavier, but
scarcely equal in muscu'ar power and
pliability t~o that of his own. His first
impulse was to rush forward, knock the
pistol from the young man's hand, and
by activity and main force hurl him into
the dust.
Dawson's quick eye detected something
of the sinister purpose of his adversary.

68

T  RIBBONS.                     09
and he fired upon him. The ball took
effect in Burrell's shoulder. He uttered
a yell of pain and rage, and rushed like
a wild boar uporn George. They grap-
pled and strggled manfully together.
but the ,Colonel soori found that he had
a fair match in the youth, whose strong
hands now pressed ,powerfully against
his throat. The struggle -became more
fierce.
.Suddenly George received a terrible
blow over his head, which caused him
to reel around like a top, but without
falling. His vision was completely knock-
ed from him for the time being. Bur-
rell saw the advantage he had gained-
sprang upon George, and endeavored to
throttle. the living principle from his
body. He, however, quickly recovered
his sight and equilibrium, and, raising
his feet, with almost superhuman power
he planted them full in the abdomen of
Burrell, who instantly relaxed his hold
upon the young man's neck, and stagger-
ed backward, nearly overcome with pain
and the loss of breath. ,Both of the an-
tagonists had now a moment's respite,
during which they respectively gathered
wind and strength, when they again
clutched in horrible strife Now the
long hair of George fell over his eyes.
This Burrell instantly seized, twisted
round in his hand, and commenced
dragging Dawson,as with giant's strength,
towards the window.
" Fool !" exclaimed Burrell, " would
you grapple with a man who has never
yet niet his equal in sinews and thews ?
Ha ! ha ! It only remains for me to
hurl you from this window t9 the depths
below."
The hoary libertine boasted too soon.
The words had hardly esdaped his lips

L


Ii
I'
r

ere Dawson brought his right arm mea- sickened within him-be turned from
sureably around, and planted a stunning the awful spectacle, and dashed away, as
blow under his ear, which caused the 'A wild maniac, from tfie scene of blood
too certain conqueror to fall prostrate on and horror I'
his back, pulling the young man down
with his knees upon J3urrell's breast.
George eagerly availed himself of the
advantage he had gained, and glneing         CHAPTER     XVI.
his hands to his adversary's throat, held
him firmly as in the vice of Vulcan, STORY OF A FOUNDLING-ARREST OF
whose disciple he had verily been, while A MURDERER.
an apprentice in the forge of the worthy The old waterman, Switzer, when he
Orlando Simers.                     found it' impossible to follow  George
"Miserable wretch! you have forfeit- Dawson in quest of his missing sister,
ed all claims to honorable treatment, and hastened to the cottage of the old gar-
shall now die the death of a hound !" dener with a view to explain, as well as
cried IDawson, his heart struggling to he was able, the strange conduct and
burst, as it were, through the intensity freak of his son.
of his rage and power.                "Oh, my friend Switzer," cried the
"Never! never! by theOmnipotent! bereaved parent, "what wonderful news
at the hands of a beardless boy !" gasped is this you tell me. My daughter Mm-
Burrell, as his strength was fairly spent. ny in the power of a villain, and George
The fury of a demon still possessed at length oh his trail ! Oh, God! what
the bosom of Burrell, and gave him will be the issue of this pursuit? My
seemingly the strength of another Her- son denrly loves his poor sister, and I
cules. With superhuman muscular he fear he may meet the foul libertine and~
managed to regain his feet, with George slay him in his wrath! Oh, Switzer-
still clinging to his neck, like the bull- Switzer, what new trouble is now in
hound to the nostrils of the enraged bul- store for me? George is so exceedingly
lock,                               rash and impetuous!  Did he not say
But in the wild frenzy of the struggle, the nillain should die.~"
Dawson's fingers dug deeper and deeper "He did indeed say that, my dear
into the windpipe of Burrell. The Dawson-but it may not come to that!
wretched man's eyes now protruded 'Jt' the foul wretch has harmed a hair of
from his head-his tongue fell out on his her head he shall die!' That was what
chin-his face blackened to the hue of(your son said. But Minny may yet be
ink, while the blood gushed from his safe-and-and George will not stain
ears and nostrils! One effort more, and his soul with the blood of the seducer!
Dawson had hurled his foe to the floor, Heaven, I feel, will spare them both,
a ghastly and livid corse. and restore your daughter to you, the
Me ~ast his staring byes upon the one unsullied and the other unharmed!
fearful deed he had wrought. A cold [am sure he will-sure he will, Dawson l"
shudder came upon his frame-his heart " God grant it ny be so, nut I have

TIlE BLUE BEARDS

U

S

/

/

4

21

no hope, Switzer! Bereft of my dear1 K "A foundling ?"
children, my old limbs will soon fall into' "Yea, Switzer-some poor stray waif
the grave, childless and dishonored in i~i our world of sin and trouble. Perhaps
the sight of the world." she was a child of shame-a creature be-
"Fear nothing, my friend. Let us gotten of man's bestiality and baseness,
not anticipate further trouble. Put your and woman's faithful love or erring~
trust ii~i heaven, Dawson, and I am sure weakness. But no matter about that.
you will never be ~ The child was innocent, whatever the
'God's will be done, ~3witzer. You faults of it's parents."
counsel wisely. Sorrow and tears will '(Even so-even so, friend Dawson !"
not mend the matter. Minny was always ~ I will begin at the beginning, and
a dear, sweet child to me,~ although lam then I'll be sure to have the.hietoyy alk
not really. 4er father, as is generaly right. It seems like aromanq of fiction,
supposed. The poor girl never knew instead of stern reality, Switzer I"
this. She has believed me to be her "Yes, tell me all froru the, first, old
father, and ever loved me in the fullness friend 1"
of her affection and her innocence."  "Well, you see it was a cold winter's,
"Minny not your daughter, Dawson? night-the first day of March last, just
You never told me that before l     fourteen years ago."
"You are right, good Switzer. I had "* Fourteen years ago I"
a reason for keeping the secret, Jut you "That is the girl's age these few
shall know all about it. Yea, you shall months' past. I remember the night
learn her little story now. I will now distinctly; for you must know there
tefl you.all I know of her origin and fiis- were two things to remind me of it,
tory, and that is but little, good friend Switzer."
"Ah!. and what were they 7"
"You know but little of her history! "My good dear wife who is dead and
What mean you, Dawson? I do not ~one these five years and more, gav~
comprehend you, my friend! Ah, I birth to our youngest child just a fort-
see! your grief for Minny has turned night before the time that Minny was
your brain, and-"                  found in our cottage porch. It was a
"Oh no, Switzer, that is not it-yet male child, but God was pleased to take
I might well go mad in my bereavement, it from us, and we buried it oa the very
I am not crazed, good Switzer! I say day that the little cherub Minny wap
that Minny is no child of mine, and that left to supply the loss of our own beauti-
1 will not be able to enlighten you much ful boy."
concerning her history."              "That was a strange coinoideace, i~-
"If you are not dreaming-not really deed, my friend.'.'
deranged, Dawson, let me hear the little "Yes, and that was the reason why
story ut once. You have strongly cxci- we took in the little angel, and cherished
ted my curiosity, and I am impatient to it as our own, instead of consigniugh9rto
learn all the mystery."            the care oftheguardiansofthepoor. Mary
"Well then, she was a foundling !" said-my wife I mean-she said it would

A
iii

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.

1/ ~


1'1
ii!
j~1
I
~
1!

fore. Indeed, to say the truth, friend
Switzer, I was glad that my wife took a
fancy to the strarIget~ darling, and agreed
with her that we should adopt the child,
and rear her as one of our flesh and
blood."
"Just like you both, T)awson. Your
wife, I know, was a very tender-hearted
woman. When I lost my own wife, and
all my children, in one week, by the
fever, your wife was always at our house,
doing all that she could for our sick peo-
ple. Oh, I 8hall never forget your wife.
Heaven rest her, kind, good soul that
she was, Dawson."
"My son George was in his fifth ye~
when his baby-brother died and little
Ninny was given as his sister. But, as
I was saying, it was a cold winter's
night. There' had been a heavy fall of
snow all the night before we buried our
babe, and we had much difficulty to get
to the grave-yard in our sleds, on account
of the great depth of snow, which had
Iot yet been broken down by travel ~o
'soon after the storm. When we returned
home, and wem all seated around a good
'fire in the' little parlor there of this cot-
Mge, we heard the cries of a young babe
in our porch, which startled us very
much. At first the cries sounded like
the lamentations of a cat, and my wife
bade me step to the door andlet in the
old puss that was perishing in the cold.
There was no cat there, but the dear
babe. It was placed in the very thres-
hold of the door, wrapped up warmly in
a ~oarse blanket, lyin~ in a common
market basket, and crying? for dear life.

Ninny became our adopted child."
I "And was there no one whom you
suspected of placing the babe af your
door-sill, good Dawson ?"
* ~ No one whatever. We knew of no
one likely to be it's mother in this neigh-
borhood, and the great city was too far
away to go and make much inquiry.
We could imagine no clue to the child's
parentage. There were many boot prints
in the snow, but a goodly nun4er of
our friends had attended the funeral of
our cherub, and the snow marks we sup-
posed were made by the company. I
took up a dark lantern and looked all
about the garden and sheds, but I dis
covered nothing unusual. At length I
found tracks in the garden in the rear
and at one side of the house. There I
followed and observed that they all point-
ed as those of a person coming from the
river to the cottage There was no trace
of footsteps showing that the party re-
traced his steps from the cottage to the
water. The snow was a foot deep and
very light, so I could not he certain these
marks were by a rr~an or woman."
"Butyou afterwards discovered, Daw-
son, who the person was; or at least ob-
tained some clue to the babe's parent..
age?"
"Nothing have I discovered of Miii-
ny's origin from that day to this."
"Was there no token or mark of any
kind that pointed to the condition or po-
sition of the parents of the babe ?"
" Oh, yes, Switzer, the child was
handsomely dressed, in warm, rich cloth-
ing, wtich led us to suppose it was the

A,

/
I

THE BLUE BEARDS
be wicked to turn theY~be away when God!~ a if pleading to be admitted beneath on,
med to have sent it purposely to our' roof and to the sympathies of our hearts.
door to supply the ~place of the dear in- The appeals of the little stranger could
thnt we had buried only a few hours be- not be resisted, and that is the way

offspring of some parties well to do in the
world."
"But you would be likely to trace the
infant's pedigree from this circumstance.
Was there no other means by which it
could be afterwards identified ?"
"There was a heavy purse of eagles
left with a small bundle of apparel. Stay
a moment, good Switzer, and I will show
you both the purse and the money"
"Show me both the purse and the
money! why have you-~--"
"Have I them yet, you would inquire.
Yes, Switzer, just as I first received
them Not a penny has been taken out
of th~ bag since we first ascertained the
amount"
"Why, Dawson, you amaze me
The old gardener without replying
went to a bureau, and speedily brought
forth a large purse filled with coin, and
placed it in the hands of Switzer.
"The money is all there, I suppose,
just as it was at first. I considered it a
trust for the child, and have kept the~
treasure sacred for her portion when she
should become of age."
"This is remarkable, indeed. You
might well say her history was like a
romance. Yea, I realize in great force
what some author has said that "truth is
stranger than fiction." But let me hear
all the rest. It beats any story I ever f
heard before."                       a
"Here's a ring, too, that was found I
wrapped up in this bit of paper. The v
ring has two letters on the inner rim, as t
as you see.L...M. N. This is all we know a
of Ninny's origin, Switzer-but there fi
was-"                                I
Before the old florist could finish h o
speech, the cottage door was thrown vie-
lently open, and his son George literally p

AND SCARLI

j l~
t ~:
f IA

~T RIBBONS.                       78
tumbled into the room and cast himself
down on the large sgttee that stood on
one side of the heas~Th-stone. But oh,
how changed! his face was covered with
blood, and his eyes were red and in-
flamed.
"My son-my son! What meaneth
this? Speak! speak I How is this?
Blood! blood-on your clothes and
hands !"
"Aye, blood, father! But ask no,
questions now! I mustuot remain here I
I must flee-instantly flee, farther I"
"My son-my poor boy what has
happened? Wnat' is this blood? George
-let me know the Worst. You have
not taken life, George? Oh! say that
you have not-say that you have not V'
"I am his slayer, father! Bear up,
father! you shall know all. Mint~y
Is
"My dear daughter, my poor child-"
"Is dead 1"
"Father of Heaven! I feared this
would be the issue. Oh, George! George!
ny poor boy-what have you done ?"
"Go ask the blackened corse of her
educer! These hands are reeking with
he villain's blood. It was a terrible
trife 1-but she avenged-my sweet
deter's wrongs 'are now redressed I"
"Oh God I This new wretchedness
or me! I cannot survive it! You are
vile murderer, George-and my old
ieart must break! The hounds of the law
nIl pursue, and you will b~ brought to
he gallows. Father of mercies I What
halt be done? Yea, George, you must
lee away. You must not remain here-
cannot live to see you die the murderer
n the scaffold! Fly! fly! my poor
on-and hide away in~ the uttermost
arts of the earth I Oh, Switzer, my

a
ft

C-


it
III
f I
'I

JE BEARDS

074                    THE     ]3'Ll
dear old friend, you have never yet fo~
~aken us. AssisL the wretched boy
depart; let them !ot seize my poor. sot
and slay him before my eyes."
Tie old ga~'dener dropped into hi
se:,t and gave vent to his lamentation
and tears.
"Nay my poor afflicted friend, griev
not thus so hopc~Iessly. Nay, George inns
not fly! I will not assist in his escape
He is no murderer-he has but avenge
the wrongs or his dear innocent sister
The law will adjudge rightly in thb
fearful matter. The people will say h(
acted nobly in slaying the monster. Nay
nay-.he is no murderer! He xii tint noi
flee away-nor shall ~he die !"
" You are right, iiiy good friend Swit.
zer. I will not prove the guilty coward
and flee away I I will surrender myself
to the l~tws. God will protect me and
defend the right. Better die on th
gallows than skulk away with the foul
brand of the guilty murderer on my
brow. Yea, I killed the scoundrel
wretch! Was that murder; no! it was
justice-retributive vengeance! Minny's
honor is avenged. I am ready to die
for my poor sister's sake 1"
"Aye my brave, good boy 'cried the
old gardener, "you counsel wisely, Swit-
her. George shall remain. If he has
acted wrongly in the sight of Heaven,
let the prayers of his poor old father in-
tercede for him before the holy throne.
Come Switzer-come George-let us all
knee! and pray God to deliver us out of
this sore trouble."
On the instant, the father and son and
friend dropped themselves upon their
knees. There in the silence of the early
morning hour, the stricken father offered
a fervent, heartfelt petition for the de-

r- liverance of his beloved son from crime
o and for the repose ef his dead daughter's
i, soul.
Suddenly the cottage door was thrust
s open, and several policemen seized the
s young man, even there on his knees,
while the aged parent prayed for his
a child, regardless of the holy season of
t communion of mortal man with his God."
"You are our prisoner, sir I" cried
I one of. the officers. You are charged
with a foul murder and must go to pri.
S son."
I "I am ready and willing, officers!"
replied George in a quiet voice and
composed manner. "Lead the way.
The Walnut jail has no terrors for me.
A jury of peers will try my cause, and
I God will protect the just."
"Nay, nay, do not drag him away
I from his poor old father! Oh, my sea-
my son-who shall deliver mc from the
bondage of my woes I"
"Grieve not in this way, my 'dear
friend," interposed Switzer, "George is
brave and honorable. He is no murderer,
and Heav~n will not let him perish.
Let him go-let the youth go with the
officers. He will yet be right, my dear
friend Dawson."
In less than an hour thereafter, the
younger Dawson was immured as a male.
/
factor within the gloomy walls of th~
Walnut street priso'i of Philadelphia.
CHAPTER XVII.
SEcRETS REVEALED..
It was the night following that, when
Minny Dawson was conveyed in a help.
less condition to the villa of Arlington,

$

situated on the banks of the Delaware, I ~nd wormwood to~ the proud and sensi-
in the midst of a large garden, abound tive heart. Their whole bearing and
ing in shrubbery and flowers, that Ar. actions towards their inferiors are per.
inand and Margery were seated, in the petual bribes to silence. Thus, in many
kitchen part of the house, deeply en- cases, the servants and employees who
gaged ~u a conversation of momentous' have been made the confidants in impor.
and extraordinary interest, as connected tant secrets, feeling the potency of their
with their own *personal history, and power, assume the authority of dele-
that of Arlington and otheei. The poor gated tyrants and exercise, a despotic
flower girl, unconscious of her transfer sway over whole establishments.
from the city residence of the libertine Such was the position in which Ar-
merchant to a country villa~ lay on a Lington found himself placed between
couch ip an upper room that had been I Armand and IViargery. Unprincipled
assigned to her apparently in a profound and wicked as both had been in conniv-
slumber, while all the servants except ing and assisting Arlington in many a
Armand and Margery had returned to J scheme of villainy and intrigue-even
Arlington's house in the city. Thus roguery, lust, and murder-they had
the twain domestics were left to them- now seemingly become tired of the in-
selves, nor thought of any intrusion up- strains necessarily imposed upon all
on their secret communion together at parties, and were anxious to assume vir.
silent hour of the night. J tues they did not possess, except in a
It was, however, soon perceived by a comparative degree, and break away
listening ear, that the life and crimes of from all restraints, by getting rid ~ilto.
the merchant Arlington were the prin- I gather of Arlington, and setting up for
cipal topics of discourse, in the commis- j themselves, whether as repentant persons
sion of many of which thov themselves or as individuals pursuing a course of
were 3nost intimately xnvAved~ crimes on their own separate account and
How true it is, tha th~ lirster who responsibility, raw~iw~ to t~e seen.
places himself either by a display of If the reader will remember the mid~
criminal conduct or a voluntary confes- wife, Mother 0' Harra, and the incidents
sion of secret crimes in the power of his of the mysterious birth on the night
servants is no longer, in the full sense of when she was conveyed over the turbu-
the term, a "fr~ee agent," but a trembling lent waves of the Deleware, on the night
slave who cringes beneath, and does ac- of the terrible storm, and after a lapse of
tually homage to the tools and menials fifteen years can metamorphose the said
under his bribed command. The ser- dame Cathicen O'Ilarra intothe wretched
vaut triumphs in his master's humility, hag we now call by the name of Margery,
and the ladies' maid in the degradation he will readily understand the full pur.
of her amorous mistress; and th~ assumed port of ~he dialogue which presently en-
'leference and mock respect paid, and the sues. The midwife and Margery in
hypocritical smile of affability, with verity, are one and the same person; ocr-
~ hich the gnilt~ master and mistress tam circumstances in her history having
greo~ their masters and employers is gall placed her as the chief female domestic

(1:

/
/
(

14'
I
~ I
1, I

AND SCARLi~T RIBBONS

T


THE BLUE BEARDS

in 'the house of Arlington, although she
yet remitined ignorant of many mysteries
in which she had became involved in her
capacity of a midwife.
"Now, Armand," said Margery, "the
girl is sleeping soundly, and is not likely
to awake for sonic hours to come. In.~
deed, to make sure that she will not be
disturbed in her slumbers, I have ad-
ministered a sleeping portion that will
keep her in that state, at least until the
cock shall crow the break of morning.
Will you now explain to me the meaning
of the picture of the wonan with an
asp sucking at her heart, which so
frightened me when I passed through the
Picture Gallery adjoining Thany's apart-
ment this morning?'
"Oh, certainly, Margery. There
could be no better opportunity than the
present to relate all about it."
"The serpent mark on the bosom of
the Floi~er Girl must in some way be
connected with that strange picture, I
am sure.~,
"The thing is quite probable, Mar-
gery."
"This is the same villa, too, to which
I was brought to deliver the babe, on
that stormy night. I know it now by
the dark drapery of the couch and win-
dows of this room! These things re-
main just a~ they were on that myste-
rious occasioii. T he room, too, was cool,
and there is yet the same old clock, and
here the bust of General Washington,
exactly in the same position they were
at that time.
"You ar~ right, Margery! Nothing
'has been changed here since that child
was born, and taken hence in your
arms.
"So IL thought, Armand."

"The picture is called Cleppatra, and
is grounded on some incident ~N the lives
of that remarkable wom~in and Mark
Anthony."
"Ab, I see through it all now, Ar-
mand. The veiled Jady who gave birth
to the child I took away, must have re-
ceived some aifright, or had her mind
strongly impressed by the curious pic-
ture, to leave so wonderful a birth-mark
upon the bosom of her child"
"Even so, I presume; but the doc-
tors, IL believe, cannot satisfactorily ac-
count for these strange freaks of dame
Nature.
"No, I suppose not; but what ~uz-
zles me more Armand, is to really know
whether the babe I took from hence can
possibly be this Flower Girl, Minny Daw-
son. I caused the babe to be left at the
door of a cottage house on the banks of
the Rancocas Creek, but some time af-
terwards when IL desired to learn some-
thing about the fate of the child, IL found
that the cottagers had removed from the
place, and I was accordingly unable to
obtain any clue to her destiny.
"But you made Arlington believe
that the child lived and that you were
obliged to pay over every year to certain
parties a handsome sum of money for its
support."
"True, true, Armand, IL always made
him believe his daughter was alive, but
would never disclose to him in whose
family she remained, for the simple rea-
son IL knew nothing about it myself,
Armand ;"
"ILt would be a strange coincidence
indeed, if two children should have
the same marks on their breasts. No,
Margery, the thing lautterly improbable,

/
/

V

AND SCARLETi RIB IY)NS

77,

( have no doubt the babe and Minny "No, Miun5~ Thtwson, as she is called,
Dawson are one and the same." is doubtless the illegitiiuarc child of Ar.
"It must be so, IL think, Armand. lington by one of his mistresses; but
But there is another thing I do not corn- the infant born by Arlington's wife was
prehend."                           the fruit of an adulterous intercourse
"And what is that, Margery ?"     between herself and the merchant Hard
"It was a very old man who stood in vey Walsingham, who, has been so
the room ~nd watched me so closely strangely missing these many years.
when the infant was born. Who was The liaison occurred on the night of the
he? Was it Arlington's father? It grand ball given by her while her hus-
certainly was not Arlington. He is quite band was absent in the South."
a young-looking man yet, and that affair How~ many strange things do happen
happened nearly fifteen years ago, Ar- in this world now-a days, Arman&amp;
mand."                              But I do not believe that Mrs. Arlington
"Yet it might have been Arlington was a guilty woman. She prayed like
in one of his many disguises, you know, a Christian, and died so calmly, like one
Margery."                           at peace with her maker and all the
"Yes, it must have been Arlington, world."
now that I think of another circum- "Still it is nevertheless true tha'she
stance. The two babes and the two sig- was an adulteress, MargeryY
net rings were very much alike. The "I am sure I can hardly believe that
veiled lady who gave birth to the child she was, but appearances do somewhat
with the serpent at the heart, was Ar- deceive, you know, ~
lington's mistress, I suppose; and the "They do, indeed. I would not my-
dear, good lady, who died blessing her self have believed her ladyship guilty
new-born babe, was his legal. wife, wh~se had I not seen with my own eyes enough
accouchxacnt I attended on my return to establish the fact. I saw Harvey
home on the morning of the birth of th. Walsingham come out of her room on
strangely marked child in the villa." the night of the famous ball, and it was
You have doubtlessly surmised cor- he who bade me send Abby Somers to
reetly, Mar~ery. Indeed, I can affirm her chamber, where she found her' mi~
with certainty that you are right." tress in a condition that wa~ not becom-
"Indeed, Armand, how know you ing to a virtuous woman.~
that? But IL need not ask, for you seem "Well, well! Poor woman! She is
t4) be mixed upin every thing." long since 4ead and gone. , God knows
"Truly that has been the case, Mar- whether she was guilty or not. But how
gery !"                             came you to learn all about these strange
"Then the babes were half sisters things; and particularly about the his-
after all! one an illegitimate child and tory of the girl now sleeping so quietly'
the other born in wedlock ?" and serenely up stairs, Armnand."
"\ou are wrong, Margery. The "Oh, that is easily explained. Ar-
children were in no way related." lington himself bade mae and Wilkins go
' No way related, Armand 1"      and fetch the midwife  that was your.


THE BLUE BEARDS

AND SCARLE~P RIBBONS         79

self-and so we hired a boat, and well
y~u know of all the other events of that
dreadful night of the storm and baby-
birth, Margery."
"Yo~&amp; and Wilkins? ,I never sus-
pected that before! Go~1 help mc.
Was there ever any thing like that be-
fore?"
"That I cannot tell; but such affairs
might be of frequent occurrence for all
that, Margery. But you do not know of
the narrow escape you had of' losing your
life on that eventful night, Margery !"
~ Narrow escape of losing my life!
'How was that'? What do you mean
"We had instructions to drown you-
murder both you and the babe, Mar-
gery I"
"Murder me! Good 4od! Armand
you terrify me. What 'had I done that
*any one should wish to murder me ?"
"Indeed, it ~vas because you had (lone
something; albeit, a compulsory act on
your part, that Arlington desired to put
you out of the waj forever !"
"And what had I done C'
"You offi~ated at the birth of the
ehildwhich the old man wished destroyed.
)                 You would not take the hint to strangle
or suffocate the babe at the moment it
was born. He did not wish either that
either himself or the veiled lady should
ever be known, nor anything concerning
the mysterious birth."
"The infernal wretch! Had I known
that hn wished my death, I would have
revealed every thing to the authorities,
and his neck would have been stretched
on' the gallows long before this V' cx-
claimed Margery, with an elevation of
her voice and considerable excitement of
masnuer. "But it is not too late yet. I
will expose all I know about his villa-

nies, and they shall hanc, him for his
a
~rimes !"
"Nay, nay, Margery! This happened
long ago, and he did not then know who
you were. Besides, it won't do at pre-
sent, when we have our own private
matters to arrange and set to rights,
Margery,"
"Well, well ! His t'me will come,
perhaps, soon enough, when the devil
will get his own I"
"As I was saying, Margery-"
"Yes-go on, and tell me all about
why he wanted to have me murdered."
"Dead people, you know, tell no
tales"
"Heaven help me I that's tnie !"
"Arlington, or the old man, if you
prefer it, bade 'Wilkins and myself throw
you overboard, together with the owner
of the boat and drown you all, as we
returned from the villa to the city."
"Oh, Lord! Was there, ever such a
monster !"
"There are many equally wicked, that
I well know, in this world."
"Mercy on me! He will be sure ~to
die on the gallows! lie will never get
his deserts until the buzzards eathis eyes
out !"
"Be more calm, Margery. You are
alive yet, and what does it' all signify,
now, Margery?"
"But how was I saved, and by whom
Armand?"
"By myself. I could scarcely keep
Wilkins from carrying out the old man's
request, until 1 whispered him a hint
how we could at some day or other, make
a handsome penny out of the affair
"Oh, how I thank you, Armand !"
The woman threw herself about the
neck of her fellow-servant, and fairly

/

smothered him in her embrace of grati-
tude, mixed with impulsive kisses and
tears
"Nay, nay, Margery, you owe me no
thanks. I candidly tell yen, I only
knew you as mi midwife and had no es-
pecial love or regard for you. I consulted
own interest, and thought only how
much capital I could make out of the
whole matter, that was all, Margery-
heaven forgive me for saying so."
"Well, well, as you didn't kill me, I
forgive you-freely forgive you, Ar-
mand."
"After drowning you all, we were, on
landing, to knock a hole in the boat and
make it sink with the ballast of stones
it contained, near the wharf, after our
own safety was secured"
"And Arlington never found out that
you deceived him in not browning us
all?"
"Never! To this day he is ignorant
that you and old Mither 0' [Jarra are
one and the same person 1"
"Did he notvrecognize me when I waa
called a second time to deliver his li~al
wife of her babe?"
"No. You may remember he was ot
present at the accouchment at all, and
did not see you at that occasion.'~
"Ah, truly we remember he closeted
himself up in the dark chamber till it
wa~ all over-hi~ wife dead, and the
Lender babe taken away by me."'
"Even so"
"Well, I declare, I never heard such
marvellous things before. Providence
has indeed .wonderfully spared ray life
through many trials and perils unknown
tome!"
"It was a lucky thing, Margery, that

you changed your name before coming
into the service of Arlington."'
The woman was seized' with a bit of
agitation that made her tremble like an
aspen
"Oh, you have nothing to fear now
Margery The secret remains locked i~
my bosom so long as we shall keep upon
good terms, at least."
"I am your friend, Armand! Do
never let Arlington know anything about
the deception I have practiced upon bini
in regard to the two babes. If he thinks
the woman who delivered the babe here
in this villa, and also the child were
destroyed by you and Wilkins, of course
you will never undeceive him."
"Not I, indeed, Margery! but never
mind that affair, now. Let me tell you
what I further know about you. Do you
know who theboatman was thattook you
up to Rancocas on the night' after the
mysterious aceouchment in this house-
the night when you laid the girl now
sleeping up stairs, then a new born babe,
at the cot~ge door of the gar4ener Daw-
son, for sVch was the cottage's name,
Margery.
"No, indeed I do not~. The night was
'very dai~k, and "
"That man~ was myself !"
"You, Armand ?"
"Yes! I had a curiosity to know' how
you would dispose of the infant,, and so
watched every movement you made. In
order that I might keep more closely on
your trail, it was I who brought' you a
second time to act as midwife in Arling-
ton's family on the same day, in the ca~o
of his wife and that of his concubine' 'I
was aware that the ~child by Arlington's
wife died soon after you took it home, bttt


80

THI~ BLIJfl BEARDS                              4ND SCARLET RIBBONS.

I knew also that the babe by the mistress
lived and ~vas a fine hearty child."
"You amaze me, Armand I"
"I overheard you arrange with your
daughter, Norab, for the disposition of
the first babe, and stationed mysef pur-
posely at the boat house to receive your
orders to take up the Delaware with the
babe I"
"And you made mc pay you a hand-
some sum of money for the job, Ar-
mand I"
"A mere trifle Margery! I knew you
had plenty of money, and I thought you
would not higgle about the job, so that
you got rid decently of the brat."
"Heaven bless me, sinner that I am!
'I am completely out of my head in be-
wilderment at what you have revealed to
inc to-night, Armand I'
"Yes, I dare say: As I was saying,
I kept track on you and bothbabes from
first to last! I saw you bury the babe of
Arlington's wife in the cellar of youi
house, and accompanied you when thc
other child was placed in the cottage
porch of Dawson, at Rancocas. I kepi
trail of Dawson, also, and saw him setth
down at his present home on the bank~
of the Schuylki'll ~'
"You took a deal of pains in all thh
strange business, I must confess, Ar
mand."
"I had a purpose to subserve, whici
j will inform you of at some other time
~ ~argery. As I was Arlington's factotun
and go-between, you never saw him ti
know him until I introduced you to lii
services, and bade you on no account
* ever to hint that you were the same wo
man who assisted at the birth ~ the tw
children. The money that was sent yoi
for the support of Mrs. Arlington's chik

-for I received ill your letters in re-
gard to its welfare and safety, notwith-
standing I kn~w it had died I-was fur-,
warded to you by myself without Arling-
ton knowing anything about the matters'
"How you astonish me, Armand."~
"You see now that I amiWIly acquaint-
ed with your history, Margery. Indeed,
it was this knowledge that first made me
suppose you would prove a valuable as-
sistant to us in our many secret affairs,
Margery."
"Yes, yes, 1 see through it all, Ar-
mand."
"We, of course, now perfectly under-
staud each other, and I trust that there
will never be any cause of difference be-
tween us, Margery ?"
~No..never......never-Armand."
"I have yet to inform you concerning
many other strange things, and you shall
assist me in my little affairs, and we'll
keep our little secrets safely locked in
our bosoms."
"Oh, yes. I will remain your be
friend, Armand. There shall ever be
a breach between us if n help it;
you can depend on my Word, Armand."
"All right, then. Kit is growing late.
To-morrow I will tell you mores Margery.
Good night."
"Good night, Arrh~nd."
The parties immediately retired to
their respective apartments for the night.
There was a listener, who overheard
all that had been said, who quickly dis~
~ appeared withon being observed by
a either Armand or Marger".

CHAPTER XIII!.
TuE STOLEN JEWELs-THE MAN 01
CRiME.
The next evening, after the house.
hold duties of the villa had been concln.
and Minny Dawson was seemingly
asleep on her sick conch, Margery a~d
Armand again seated themselves in the
kitchen, and resumed their conversation
of the strange events connected with the
history of Arlington and therriselves.
"Now, Armand," said Margery, "we
can ~at at our ease again, while you shall
tell me more about Arlington, and in
what manner you have been connected
with him before I came to live in his

81

~j In his absence, a prince of that House in
whose service I waa employed, stole the
or own jewels, and other valuable trea-
sures of the Dukedom, and secreted the
bulk of them in the earth. He was a
gay and dissolute Prince and lavished
his wealth in boundless profusion upon
a young French woman, wife of a Colonel
in Napoleon's Army, then residing in Am-
sterdam, where Mr. Arlington had a ship
taking in a cargo of goods for the United
States. I became cognizant of the rob-
bery of the jewels by the young Prince,
my master, and seeing that he would be
likely to lavish all of the treasure he
could convert without detection into coin,
upon his paramour, I resolved to secure
the valuable prize and escape to the
United States. This I soon aenmn1~1i~A

service. The girl is getting well very and then I thought of the bess manner
rapidly, and seems to enjoy her sleep of having the same conveyed across the
~.'ery much this evening." Atlantic. Meanwhile the Prince and
"Well, I will begin at once, and nar- his paramour quarrelled and separated,
rate The more prominent events in the when she returned to Paris and became
history of Arlington, and in what man- the mistress of St. Pierre do Ileney, an
ner I became associated with him. artificer in gold and silver, who quickly
"That's clever, Arniand. Ge on in your converted several of the crown ornaments
own way, I will be an attentive listener given by the Prince to his paramour, in..
to all you may have to communicate." to elegant remodeled bijouterie, so as to
"I wilJ first state the way I first be- leave notra2~ by which their ~revioos
came acquainted with Arlington. It was form could be identified. After some
many years ago, when all Europe was hesitation, I applied to Arlington, and
conPdsed by the wars of the great Na- informed him in ~regard to the portion of
poleon, who hurled down kings and in- the stolen jewels I had in my possession,
bra like so many ten pins, and partitioned and offered to give him half their value
off many kingdoms in order to give his if he would undertake to smuggle the
brothers and relatives each a separate other half and take me a passenger ~ra
throne from which to rule the conquered his ship to the United States. At first
people of the various nations of the con- he indignantly spurned the proposition
tinent. - Louis Bonaparte having been and threatened to hand me over to the
made king of Holland, the DukeofBruns- authorities of the country. I fell on my
wick~ was dispossessed of his territories' knees and implored him in the most
and resided for the time being in Londoa earnest, and tenifal manner not to ~-
GF

a


82                    THE BLUI
pose my crime-that I would surrender
him the entire treasure and hind myself
to his interest for life. After somehow of
determination to consign me to justice,
his cupidity finally prevailed, and he
gave me to understand that hewould
accede, to my proposition, and take my-
self, and the treasures tq the United
States, the latter to be restored to the
proper owners at a fitting opportunity
when the anairS in Europe ~hould be
*   settled.  He made me submit to be
handcuffed on the spot lest I should es-
cape, and afterwards confined me in a
secret part of his ship till the vessel
sailed from Amsterdam. The treasures
were not very bulky, some of them being
diamonds. Ihad them all secured in little
bags about my person, beneath my shirt
and drawers. Just before tIe ship sailed
*   I wa~hid in an empty hogahead, and ii,
that condition passed out of Amsterdam
without being discovered. The vessel
was placed under the command of a sub-
ordinate officer, who took the ship *to
liavre and there received on board Cap.
tam Arlington, who had made the jour-
ney from Amsterdam to that place by
the land route, having bad business of
importance to transact in Paris. While
in Paris, he sought out the shop of Beney,
the jewEller, and obtained an interview
with his mistress, the late paramour of
the Prince of Holland, which interview
resulted in the woman's desertion of Re-
ney and sailing with Arlington as his
mistress to the United States. Soon after
his arrival in Philadelphia;. he entered
into partnership with Harvey Walsing-
ham, in theshipping and importing trade,
living, at the same time, in much appa-
rent harmony with his mistress, whom he
acknowledged as his wife for several

BEARDS
months, when he administered a dose of
poison, which destroyed her life. lie
then gave out that she had committed
suicide in some temporary fit of insanity,
to which he alleged she was subject.-
Being a man of irreproachable character,
suspicion was readily diverte4 from him-
self as her murderer. I was then very
ignorant of almost everything of human
life when I first placed myself in the
power of Arlington; but when the wo-
man died, I instinctively comprehended
that we were both guilty of ter-ible
crimeS, and so by a tacit understanding
between ourselves under the nrcessity
of the case, we became naturally attached
to each other, with a view to the preser-
vation of our respective secrets from the
world. The jewels of the house of l3runs-
wick were deposited in a safe place till all
inquiry for them in Europe had ceased.
By a private agreement between us I be-
came his body servant-nay, seemingly
in the eyes of the world, his most abject
slave-with a view to a series of crimes
which he proposed, and in which he was
already engaged-suchas smuggling, pri-
vateering and kid-nappng slaves on the
African coast. The rich and respected
merchant Arlington, none suspected to
be in villa~tnou~ collusion with his ser-
vants, and thus our relations to each
other have remained uninterrupted up
till the present time.
"'No one then suspects Mr. Arling-
ton to be the villain that he is ?" in-
quired Margery.
"In the eyes of the world he enjoys
the reputation of a man of integrity;
nay, that of a Christian and member of
the church."
"Oh the hypocrite! What would
the world think of him did they know of

II

AND SCARLET RIBBONS

88

the many crimes in which he has been Walsingham was also his victimou that
engaged ?"                          night of violence and terror."
"They would certainly be astounded "Horrible! Arlington is ~ hell-dyed
to discover that he was not only a rogue monster, indeed."
and villain, but the worst of all wretches, There was a low voice as or a groan
the libertine and murderer 1" close at hand.
"But he will be tripped up yet, one "Hark! list! What noise was tha
of these days, Armand ?" suggested Mar- cried Margery, standing up in alarm.
gery, with a peculiar expression of coun- "I heard nothing," replied Armand.
tenance.                              "But I surely did. It was like a
"It is quite likely that he will. The groan. Quick, Armand, let us search
hemp is already manufactured into the the house. Some burglar or robber may
rope which is to hang him, or I am en- be prowling about perhaps."
timely out of my reckoning ?"         "At least, we will see."
"You do not mean to peach, Ar- The house was searched in every part,
mand ?"                             fr~om cellar to garret, but nothing unu-
"Do you perceive any thing queer in sual was discovered, till they entered the
my face, Margery I"                 picture gallery, where they found a pot-.
"Indeed it looks black, rather than trait lying on the floor, bottom upwards
queer i"                            and its frame dashed to atoms around.
Armand had assumed a scowl which "Good God l It is the portrait of
was instantly banished by Margdry' s re- ~Iarvcy Walsingham, who caine to his
mark. He rejoined :- death
"If he comes to the halter, it will not through Arlington's instrumental-
he through any talking of mine-he as- ity.
----~-o- ~~~.1  C' -

sured of that Margery. But-no mat-
ter about that business, now~ Margery,
1 will tell you of another mysterious
affair which happened, as you may re-
member, about fifteen years ago.'~
"Well, Armand."
"You rememberr the ease of the
young lady Ida Walton, who is supposed
to have been murdered at the same time
that Harvey Walsingham suddenly dis-
appeared ?"
"Oh ye~, perfectly well."
"Well the young lady was reall~q
murdered, and her death was caused by
Arlington."
"You don't tell me that? Can it be
possible?"
"It is the fact. Not only did he as-
assinate the youag girl, but Harvey

"Come away, Armond. I would not
stay here for all the world ! Perhaps it
was tjme ghost of the murdered man that
I heard, Armand ?"
"Nonsense, Margery. It was the wind
from yonder broken pane which blew
the picture down from the wall, and that
was the noise, if you heard any. Come,
Margery, we will go down to the kitchen
again, and I will finish telling how Ida
Walton and Harvey Walsingham were
murdered."
They aeco ingly returned to the
kitchen, where Margery stirred the fire
into a pleasant b e. as the evening was
juite cold, or ped\aps as a 'means to dis-
pel same uneasiness V spit-its, which the
gloom of a half light d place naturally
inspires in a superstitious bosom.


THE BLUE BOARDS -~

AND SCARLET RIBBO~8.

ChAPTER XIX.
CROSS ?URPOSI~SM DER WILL (VUT.
When Armand and Margery had
again seated themselves, Armand pro-~
ceeded with the details of his astounding'
narrative.
"You have heard, Margery, of th9
rumors that were afloat at the time of
the strange disappearance of Ida Walton,
harvey Walsiugham, and his clerk Au-
gustus Thornton; and you may remember
the infamy that was east upon the purity
of Walsingham'5 wife, because of an
leged criminality between herself and
Thornton.
"Oh, I remember all about it, very
distinctly, Armand."
"So much the better, Margery, it
will save inc trouble in making some ex-
planations otherwise necessary to be un-
derstood"
"Yes, I see that it will."
"Well, Arlington fancied that Wal-
singharn had defiled his marriage bed,
and corrupted his wife, during his ab-
sence in the South, on coininereitil and
other busineSR~ and he resolved upov
taking secret and summary vengeance
upon the, sed acer."
"Yes, that was quite natural. But
how did he discover the criminalty ol
his wife?"
"lie accidentally found a love lette
in her ro~)m, addressed to her with
out date, and bearing a fictitious naun
signed to it."
"Ol~, yes, I understand. And thi~
latter excited his suspicions."
"Certainly, and 1w inc1nired of hi
rife the useaning of the t~il.~t doux, am

the explanation seemed plausible enough,
and so Arlington dismissed the matter
from his mind."
"Ali! I thought the poor woman was
innocent, Armand."
"But she was not! Events proved
that she had committed adultery with
~
"Well, then, she was a wicked wo-
man! Proceed, Armand."
"It was eighteen months after his
marriage with the heiress Minerva Ray-
bold, that Arlington discovered that she
was in the condition which most women
delight to, be who love their lords."
"You mean, Armand that she was
likely to have a child."
" Yes. The husband and wife had
lived a year together without any signs
of issue, before Arlington went to New
Orleans."
Had they lived happily together
during that time, Armaud ?"
"They had not. They disagreed be-
cause there appeared to be no reasonable
hopes of thoir having children born of
their wedded union."
"Most men like to become a. parent,
that I well know, Arniand, and as for
that, the women all wish to have off-
spring. It is quite natural that tlir'y
should."
"Yes, Margery, I believe you are
right. When Arlington found her preg-
nant, he charged her with infidelity, for
he had questioned Hannah Sommers
- and myself in regard to the conduct of
his with while he was abroad."
"And you told him what you had
noticed on the night of the ball ?"
"Certainly. We thought it was our
s duty to disclose all we knew of that sue-
I vicious circumstance. Yet the child

I:
'5

might have been Arlington's. lie was covered, or thought he had, that .younp
absent from home about six months; and Thornton bed formed an attachment ti'
the child was born about a month after Mary Walsingham that was far fron
his return,                        being platonic."
"Then you should have never dis- "You mean that there was some im-
closed her amours, and he would never proper intimacy between the young~
have been the wiser of it, Armand." clerk and Walsingham's wife ?"
"So I would have kept the secret, , "You must know, Margery, that the
but it was the curious love letter that lady had pledged her truth in marriage
first caused the doubts in Arlington's to a young lieutenant in the Navy, by
mind as to the paternity of the babe." the name of Granville Edmonson, before
"Yes. The poor women are always she became the wife of Walsingham ?"
condemned, and sometimes very unjustly "And why didn't 'she marry him ?"
on mere suspicion of having done wrong.' ~' Because it was report he had died
"Woman's nan e is frailty, you abroad."
know !"                              "Well, whi~t next 7"
"I say it is the nen who corrupt the "Thornton was supposed to be the
women; but go on with y~)ur story, Ar- young Navy officer returned and in die-
mand"                              guise."
"Arlington's first plan of retribution "Oh, it's all clear enough, thus far
was this seduction of Mary Walsiagham, Armand."
Harvey's wife.                       "Thornton, you know, was the clerk
" Indeed! And did he succeed?", in the house of Walsiagham &amp; Arling-
"I should soy not. At least Arling- ton."
ton confessed to me some time aft~rwarcIs "So I ~
that her virtue was impregnable."    "Well, Arlington w~ ote a letter to
"Then he,- name was notfradt~, I" re- Mary, in a hand-writing resembling
torted Margery, with a sneer of triumph. Thornton's, making an assignation with
"There is no rule without exception." her to meet him at midnight in ~he
"Then he thought he would murder garden, as he stated he had something
Walsingham ?,~                     very important to communicate. This
"That was his purpose."          letterArlington enclosed in one addressed
"And"-                           to Walsingham, on the day he was about
"He hired me to become-.--"     to leave the city on business in New
"The assassin ?"                 York, but left no clue by which Wal-
"Not exactly that-but to see that singham could discover by whom it was
the deed was surely done 1" sent t&amp; him."
"I do not underttand you, Armand" "And what did he do ?"
'Listen to me and learn all about the "His first impulse was to treat the
tragic mystery."                   anonymous note with contempt, as a
"Proceed. I am all impatience to base calumny upon the purity of his
learn everything."                 young wife. It so happened, ho's ever,
"Arlington somehow~ or other dis- that he discoycred his wife in tears, and

p

44

gt

L


'PHE BLUE B'EARDS

saw the young clerk leav# the drawing-
room, in which she reclined, under cir-
cumnstances that aroused his suspicions."
"And then ?"
"lie determined secretly to postpone
his journey, and covertly watch the con-
duct of his wife and Thornton."
" I understand." ,
" He bade her farewell, and left the
mansion ; but he stealthily returned,
placed the note he had received on a
table in her chamber, and in concealnent
awaited the issue of events. He wished
to be convinced if any intrigue was going
forward, and whether his wife would
, aeet the young clerk in the arbor,
.agreeably to his invitation, at the mid-
night hour." .
e" But if Thornton did not write the
letter with his name to it, liow was he
to meet Mary in the garden ?"'
" Of course,.Arlington caused another
note to be written to Thornton, as coming
from Mary, inviting him to the assigna-
tion."
" Ah, I see ! What a cunning villain
Arlington is l"
" Yes, he is a great schemer of mis-
elief. He employed Ida Walton to
write the letter to her cousin Mary."
" And did she thus lend herself to
Arlington's villainous plans ?"
"She did ; but there was a deep mo-
tive for the part she played in this stra-
tagem."
" She had committed a faux pas with
Arlington."
" And what was that, Armand ?"
" Why he had seduced her, and she
was then encdente by him."'
a"Well, I declare, I never knew any
man to be so fond of the women as
Arlington".'

"lie glories in intrigues and amours'.
Many have been the victims of his lust'
fuil passions.";,
" So I have heard."
"Arlington was then a married man,
and it was impossible for him to marry
and make her an honest woman." -.
"So he wanted to get rid of her in
some way or other."\
' Precisely so."
" And he thought she would meet
-Thornton herself, I suppose, and-'
" Wait a. few moments, and you will
know all about it. Ida Walton was put
up to making advances to Thornton by
Arlington himself; as he wished that
the young man might be entrapped into
a marriage with her." .
a"So as to cover up her approaching
shame, I suppose.'"
" That was the idea. How excellent
you are at surmises, Margery." .
" I have read a great many curious
things in the great book of human na-
ture, Armand.''
" Indeed, I know you are no chicken,
in that regard ! But I must tell you now
of a little circumstance to make my story
clearly understood. Thornton received
the note purporting to come from Mary,
that had been written by Ida, and not
wishing to compromise her honor, by
meeting her at inidnight, as proposed, re-
paired to Walsingham's Mansion, in the
afternoon with the purpose of an inter-
view with her. He happened to enter
the drawing room and observed the young.
wife in tears. He apologized4for his in..
trusion, and enquiring for her husband,
was told that he was in the library room
adjoining lie at once repaired thither,
ad placing some business letters in
Walsingham' s hand, he waited to recive

-/

K

I

81

Walsingham's .commands in ~regard to
thseni This business finished, he was
about to leave the house, when he ob-
served Mary standing in an arbor in the
garden in conversation with her nephew
C~onradin, and her cousin Ida. He con-
cluded that he would also take a turn in
the garden and wait an opportunity to
address the young wife. Being regarded
as the confidential clerk of Walsinghamn,
he was treated more as an inmate of the
merchant's house, and it was his wont to
. .  make himself as agreable as possible both
to Mary and her cousin Ida. Presently,
seeing Mary was ,about to return to the
house all alone, Ida and Conradin having
quitted her side; he came forth from an
arbor to greet her. Ida, however crossed
his path, and diverted his attention from
the object he had in view His eager-
ness to speak to Mary excited her jea-
lousy,. and confirmed her in what Arling-
Ston had led her to believe, in regard to
his criminality with the young wife.-
He broke away from her as gently as he
could, but she deemed the repulse as a
wilful insult to her personal charms.
'This led her to devise some speedy re-
venge upon him. She .did not doubt
that he would repair to the arbor to meet
' her cousin Mary, but she did not know
anything about' the note that Ar-
lington had sent Walsingham, and which
the latter subsequently placed on the
-dressing table in his wife s chamber.-
She intended when she wrote the letter
for Arlington, to receive Thornton her-
self at the midnight hour, and entrap
him into a dalliance of love, but now she
.resolved to meet him, and, instead of ac-
cents of love, to speak daggers to his
* { heart.                       .
" Ah, I see! Her love was turned to

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.

hate, and she resolved to stab the young'
man to the heart !"
"Even so, Margery. And now we
are coming to the point. Arlington was
more particularly anxique that Harvey
Walsingham and Ida Walton should"/b,
put out of the way, at all'events, and did
not care if the lives of Mary and Thorn-
ton should also be sacrificed through the
complexity of his strategem. He rightly
conjectured that Walsinghanm would lie
in waiting for there meeting of his wife
and Thornton, in the arbor, and, so disq
covering fthem, that he would rush in
and slay them in their apparent criminal
conversation."
" Oh, how dark and horrible was that.
plot, Armand !"
" Truly, it was; but you have not
heard how it terminated. Arlington
knew well enough -that Walsinghamn
would place the note purporting to come
from Thornton in the way oft Mary, bt -
he did not suppose for an instant thit
Walsingham's pure wife would keep
such appointment with Thorniton. He,
however, calculated that Ida Waltoz
would be there in the arbor at the ap-
pointed time, disguised in Mary's cloth-
ing, and that she would throw herself
into Thornton's arms before he would be
.able to comprehend the strategem."
" And did it fall out as Arlington
imagined it would ?"
"Precisely to the very letter."
" Most extraordinary, indee'd."
" Ida, at the hour appointed, repaired
to the rendezvous, disguised in apparel.
of her cousin, and waited the coming of
Thornton."    -.
" And did he come ?
."Of course. Ida had scarcely seated
herself in the cosy retreat when. Thorn-


ton approached; whereupon she flung Seeing how matters were, I took up the
herself upon his neck -and breast. body of. Ida, and threw it down an old
Thornton was followed by Harvey Wal- well at thd foot of the garden, and then
singham, who seeing the party in seem- tumbling- down upon it a pile of stones
ing amorous embrace fired a pistol at from an -adjoining wall, the well was
Thornton and plunged a dagger into the entirely concealed from view. I returned
heart of Ida, thinking she was~his own to the arbor for the purpose of removing,
asdulterous wife Mary He rushed from the bodies of Walsinghani and TChornton.
the arbor with the intention of fleeing How was I astonished to find that that
away, when I shot him dead!1" of Thorntpn's had disappeared. I at
"Horrible I hoi-rible ! So you are once conj&amp;ctured that he had not been
the murderer of Walsingham, after all, killed by the pistol fired by Walsinghiam,
and not Arlington ?" - :and that he had risen up and fled the
" Yes, in point of fact, but not his tragic place. As there was no time to
wilful murderer. I had hoped that a be lost, I dragged Walsingham's body to
recontre would have occurred between the banksof the Schuylkill, where I knew
Walgingham and 'Thornton, and that Wilkins would be in waiting in a boat
both would have been slain by each for the result .of the night's business.
other's weapons; but as I had my in- We quickly threw the corse to its bot-
structions from Arlington to be present torn and rowed some distance away, to
in some' concealed place, and to make the neighborhood of the Jolly Boatmen's
sure work of the bloody business, I was tavern. Here we landed, tied .up the body-
constrained to finish up matters in the ina bag, and hiringa wagon at the tavern;
mnanner I have narrated." drove off with it to ,Arlington's house,
"Oh, Armand; it was an awful tia- wherb we buried it in the same vault
gedy, indeed. Three lives sacrificed on where Arlington made me thrust black
the spot, merely to gratify a whim of Ralph, the sweep, who so mysteriously
that terrible man Arlington I Oh, how entered the house and attempted to inter-
I wish you had not been engaged in the fere for the release of the flower girl
bloody affair, Armand!"' from Aslitigton's designs. The bones of
"So did I then; but as it so occurred, Walsingham, for all I know, still rest in
it were useless now to grieve about it. the cellar of our master's house in town.
I went there merely as a witness of .the By this time, the rats have picked all
struggle between the parties, and. with the flesh from0 the black skunk's body,
no intention to imbue my hands in too, I suppose."
blood, unless forced 'to do so by circum- " Oh, Armand! what is all this you
stances I scarcely expected would arise, tell me. Nothing will ever induce me
indeed, Margery, to say the truth, my to return to that house in the city again."'
real object in going there was to abduct "Pooh ! pooh ! of what are you afraid ?
Ida, and make her my own mistress." Of the ghosts of the murdered men, eh ?"
"Oh, you men are all alike, in ever Armand chuckled a laugh of derision
seeking the ruin of defenceless women." at the woman's fears. Scarcely had he
" Well, well, let it pass, now, Margery. done so when a door opened, and a tall

I

4
I

88  TE BLE BERDSAND SCARLET RIBBON8,                                          ~89

TUYE MURDERED REMAINS O'F THlE WIFE OF THE,
. L IBE R T.INLE M E RC HA NT  AR LI N GT ON.

I

a

i


(

THE PLLIE BEARDS

form like that of Augustus Thornton yet s~cli was Margery's trepidation that
entered, and with menacing attitude Armand found it difficult to induce her
and scowling bsqws, walked across the to remain and prepare some food for the
room in the direction of Armand and 'poor invalid Ninny, who had been left
&amp;1:argery, and instantly vanished by a side locked in her chamber and sleeping
door ~ut into the garden, and was seen soundly the evening before. Margery
no more,                           averred that the old villa was haunted,
The apparition threw a spell of terror and that she would not remain ove1
and horror over both Armand and Mar- another night there for ten thousand
gery. The woman uttered a wild shriek worlds! A , however, supplied
and fell in a senseless condition on the her with a full glass of generous wine,
floor. Armand, however, was no be- which so far mollified her apprehensions
clever in ghosts, and fancying his details that she contented to remain an hour or
of the murder of the garden had conjured so longer at the villa, until she had pre-
i4 merely some optical illusion, he pared some breakfast for the yonng
caught ~up the bulky form of Margery, Flower Girl. This finally being done,
and bore it to a bed in an adjoining how were they both astonished to find
chamber. Here he chafed her temples that their fair young prisoner had dis-
with brandy and soon brought her into appeared altogether! The mystery was
a state to swallow down a large draught still the greater when they found the
of the same liquor, when he left her to door of the chamber still locked when
repose, fortifying his own spirits in like they entered the chamber, and from the
manner, before retiring to his own bed position of the high windows and the
chamber for the night. manner by which they~ were closed, it
seemed a moral impossibility for her
have made her escape except through
the agency of some ghostly intervention.
CHAPTER     XX~             They took this supposition for granted,
and in their alarm, did not wait to make
TEE MYSTERIES OF TIlE BLUE BEARDS any further search for the girl about the
AND SCARLET RIBBoNs EXPLAINED. mansion, but fled at once back to the
WONDERFUL DENOUEMENT,            city.
Margery, however, refused to return~
The sun had risen high in the heavens to ~Arlington's residence; but repaired
the next morning before Margery and to a friend a house to await the issue of
Armand had sufficiently recovered from events, while Armand hastened at once
the alarm occasioned by the apparition to his master's presence and reported the
and the effects of the potations swallowed mysterious circumstances which had
by each to stimulate their courage or transpired at the country villa.
drown their fears.                   It will be   remembered that the
There was certainly at that late hour merchant Arlington had given his
of the morning no reason to anticipate servants strict commands to watch over
the re-appearance of the ghostly visitant; his supposed daughter Ninny, and pro-

p

I

AND SCARLET RIBBONS.                              91
vde for her every wants, until he had of the Schuylkill, a few hundred yards.
u~liciently recovered from the wounds distance from tbe old haunted and de,
he hal received in his struggle with j served mansion of the Walsingbam fain ily
Black RoIf, and made the necessary ax'- and entered upon a long and. secret cone.
rangement to acknowledge Minny as his versation with the publican's wife. This
daughter to the world.: man was named William Butler, and hi~
The diseloan ces that Armand now house had long been knowa as the resort
made to Arlington, caused the latter to of the most abandoned and lawless of the
vent upon th6 other the bitterest invec- inhabitants f the great city. Indeed,
tire and curses, for his indiscretion in the "Jolly Boatman" tavern was x's.
allowing the Flower Girl to escape. guarded litoraily as a "place of refuge"
This violence so inflamed tb~e servant, for murderers and villainsof every order,
that an open rupture waS the result, but who, when hotly pursued aiway found
tcr a war of rancorous recrimination~ means of concealment or escape through
their enmity was reconciled by an ap- the ale-house by certain mysterious facili-
parent very cordial understanding be- ties that the authorities had never been
tween them. Accordingly, after their able to detect.
conference had end~d, Armand repaired This same Butler was one of the party
to the stables, harnessed a pair of spirited who assisted Wilkins in conveying the
horses to the carriage, and drove around coffin from Colonel Burrell's house and
to Arlington's front door, when the burying it in Potter's Field in the
merchant entered, and Armand drove sight of George Dawson, who remained
the vehicle rapidly away. in ambush while, they did so, and he..
~It had long been the intention of Ar- lived it contained the remains of his
mand to make a clean breast of his own murdered sister. It will be remembered
and Arlington's villainies to the au- that he left the ~burhd ground with the
thorities, calculating that by turning coachman, while Wilkins remained with
State's evidence h@ would ensure the old Phillip, the grave-digger, to see that
destruction of his master and save him- the business was thoroughly finished.
self from the severe penalties of the laws. We have seen him invite the old grave-
But his plans to bring about such results digger to go with him to the "Jolly
had not yet been fully matured. Little, Boatman," when his intention was fins-
however, did he dream of the object tinted by George Dawson, who forced
which Margery had in view in refusing him to accompany him to Burrell s
to 'eturri to Arlington's ~ity residence. house, where the scene of violence took
T~ nurp"s'~ was to ro~o,-t immediatrdy place that resulted in the death ~f Wil-
all she kiThw of the villainies of Arling- kins, and also of Burrell, the auppused
ton arid his &amp;o-workers to the majistracy, seducer of the sister of George, as pre-
and bring down up6n their heads the piously detailed.
sword of justice, before they could pos- While Arlington, Burrell, and many
~ibly effect their ~scape~         other aristocratic libertinesgambl~rs and
She sought the tavern known as the villains, concocted and carried on all
"Jolly Boatman," situated on the banks manner of crimes, -many of the subordi.

1i


92          TUE BLUE BEARDS                                 AND SCARLET RIBBONS.

nates in such diablerie were not less villa, after informing him of Ninny s es.
eagerly engaged iii taking secret advan cape, was sent by Arlington back to the
tagq,~ of their employers' weaknesses, city, in search of Margery, and on other
vices and~erimes, to the accomplishment business that Arlington deemed ~eces-
of their own private designs and pecupi. sary to be secretly transacted He fell
ary emoluments. Each man and woman iii with.Wilkins and soon learned of the
seemed to play at cross-purposes, and suicide of the girl in Burrell's house.-
worked for their individual selves, though He at once agreed to assist Wilkins in
bound by the very nature of their crimes the burying of her remains, and was the
in a sort of general league for the ad- very man who had driven the carriage
vantage of the entire community of out- containing the coffin to rotter's Field
laws                                in conjunction with Burton and Wilkins,
The salacious propensities of Arling- followed by fAeo~ge Pawson, as before
ton and Burrell, especially, were well detailed.
known to Armand and Wilkins, who But scarcely had George and Wilkins
had for a long time "huL ted in couples," quitted the burial ground, when two
for their own especial benefit, indepen- men, closely muffled, jumped over the
dent of their connection with the secret fence, seized, gagged, and bound the old
band of outlaws, known to themselves grave-digger, re-opened the grave, took
as the "League of the Blue Beards and up the coffin, placed it in a cart, and
Scarlet Ribbons."                   drove off having first released the old
While Armand acted as the immediate man, and given him a purse of money, by
toul and minion of the libertine Arling- way of a soothing doucem for the rough
ton, Wilkins was in like manner the handling they had given him. The old'
purveyor to the lusts and passions of man Philip imagined the party to be
]3urrell; and on the very da$r that Min resurrectionists in pursuit of anatomical
ny IDawson was inveighed into the house subjects for the medical profession, and
of the merchant, Wilkins had contrived could not refrain from muttering some
to ensnare a young and innocent girl in- expressions at once indicative of his plea-
~to the dwelling of the lawyer. This sure and greed:
maiden, however, finding herself unable "A mighty good job of it, really," he
to resist the villainous designs of Bur- said; "It isn't often that old Philip is
rel, committed suicide, and in that fear- paid more than once for filling in the
ful manner saved her purity and honor clods! Verily, once, twice, thrice-aye,
from his pollution. Burrell intrusted three times over, have I been paid for
the secret of his contemplated villainy my services to-night! Strange business
and her burial to Wilkins, and meeting this-strange business, say I. No affair
his own death so soon after at the haad.4 of mine, though! I have the~ gold, and
of' George Dawson, had remained igno- augh may he who wins. Ha! ha! ha 1',
rant of what disposition had been, made He took his spade leisurely, filled up
of the unfortunate young girl's body. the grave a second time, and lefts the
Armana having, driven the carriage' ground for his home just as the day be-
containing his. master to his country gnu to break.

I

The news of the murder of Colonel
Burrell soon became spread over the city,
and tl~,e arrest of George Dawson, and
his explanation of the affair, caused an
intense excitement among the pcople.-
This feeling was further increased, when
Ninny Dawson suddenly returned to her
home and learned of the troubles and
horrors that had arisen on account of her
abduction and mysterious disappearance.
She detailed to the 'old gardener and
their friend Switzer, all that had trans-
pWed in connection with herself since
her absence. Then accompanied by her
guardian parent, and friend, made the
necessary affidavit for the arrest of Ar-
lington and his accomplices.
The police, accordingly, promptly re-
paired to the merchant's house, but find-
ing it tenantless, made a forcible entry
and searched it from the attic to the
vaults.. They found it thoroughly ra -
sacked as if burglars had been at wor
and carried off everything of portable
value. In the dark, damp vaults' they
found the murdered remains of Black
Rolf, with the flesh already eaten off the
bones by rats; and on further research
in the wine cellar, there was discovered
a large hole in the wall, which led to a
culvert or water-course in the street. On
pursuing this, they found another~ avenue
which led through a similar passage into
the cellar of Burrell's house, situated
several blocks away from Arlington's
mansion. The police had already found
that Burrell's house had beenpillaged in
a similar manner to the dwelling of Ar-
lington, while the dead bodies of the
libertine lawyer and Wilkins added to
the general horror of the scene.
* While all this was going forward, Mar-
gery and Hannah Butler, the wife of the

"Jolly '1~atman," as yet unawai~e of the
murder of Burrell and Wilkins, and the
intense excitement prevailing in the
heart of the etty, a1so went to the mayor's
office, and lodged very important in.
formation eoncernipg the existence of the
fearful League of outlaws known as the
"Blue Beards and &amp;arl#'t Ribbons."
They gave the names of a large number
of these. terrible confederates in crime.
Butler and Armand were found in bed
at the house of the Innkeeper, utterly,
unconscious-~of all the tragic horrors of
the night. They were the two nt~n who
acted as resurreetionists and recovered
the coffin from the old ~grave-digger's
power, after George Dawson apd Wil-
kins had' left the paupers' burying
ground. Armand now made full confes-
sion of everything connected with him-
self and the outlaws' ,~eague, which had
existed for a long series of years, and
was ideatifica with the many strange
and tragic events that had till
now re 'iined impenetrable concealed.,
He not only diselnsed the tragic mystery
which surrounded the disappearance of
Harvey Walsingham, but stated where
the bodies of all the pa~i6s except that of
Thoratonmight be found. He further ad.
mitted that himself, Butlei~ and Wilkins,
were the persons who stripped the houses
of Arlington and Burrell of its plate,
jewels, and valuables; that t~ie coffin they
had conveyed to Potter's Field contained
thesetreasures, and not the remainsof the
girl who had committed suicide in Burl
rell's house, her body having been sunk
by means of heavy weights, in a deep
cess-pool attached to the mansion of
Barrel!. He further stated that these
treasures, with others of large value,
were to be found in a vault of the 'old

93,..

. 42


-94

I



AND SCARLET RIBBONS.

95

W~dsingham mansion, and that t.he was no other than the same member (V
League of outlaws were the persons who the Walsiugham family that had been
held there the midnight orgies, and found, when yet a mere child, sleeping
caused it to be so generally feared as an under a small boat, on board the good
accursed and hatinted house. All of skipper's vessel, who had subsequently
A~rmand's statements were subsequently adopted him as his' son. These facts
verified' to the very letter, and the con- were exhibited, not only by the original
i'ession finally resulted in the ~ondign portraits, but by various other singular
punishment being extended to nearly all and peculiar tokens of identity. She
who had become involved in the re- proved to the satisfaction of the so-called
markable League of the "Blue Beards Captain Von Vechten that she was the
ndl Scarlet Ribbons."             identical cabin boy that went with him
But other revelations of strange in- 'to Java, and presented other facts that
est are yet tobe made to complete the showed how indefatigable she had been
chain of our veritable narrative. The to vindicate her own honor and the once
Red Witch of Wissahickon proved an fair ~iame of the Walsingham family.
indefatigable instrument in the breaking But instead of finding her the wrinkled
up the terrible League, of outlaws and I and saffron-hued Witch, on throwing
bringing the rr~ to suitable punishment. aside her~'disguises, Conradin found her
She was the w~fh of Harr,~ IV'ilsinyham', as beautiful and youthful-looking almost
and had 'spe4t nearly twenty years in as she was on the evening that she en-
ferreting out 4he mystery attendant on encouraged his spoetical-ellorts, in the
the disappeara~ice of l~r husband and garden, on the day of the strange dis-
cousin Ida. She had travelled much aster that came upon their family. This
and assumed various disguises in pursuit union of relatives who had been so long
of her principle purpose. She had long and so rnysteriou&amp;y estranged from
had her eye on Arlington and Burrell, each other, was of the most delightful
and in connection with her nephew Con- description, as may be readily imagined
radin, (although he knew not as yet that The noise that .Armand and Marg~ry
she was his aunt,) and Captain Von had heard, was caused by their acci-
V'echten, had visited Arlington's villa mentally letting one of the portraits fall
to inspect the pictures in a gallery of the to the floor while inspecting the same.
same, with a view to an exploration of It was Captain Von V'echten, tha*
so~o inattors connooted with the destiny personated the ghost of Thornton, and
of Conradia Walsiugham and Captain stole out of the villa into the garden bs
Von Yeohten. This midnight examina- fore their bewildered senses, on a hasty
tion resulted in overhearing the revela- errand to the city on business connected
t$on of the secrets that Arman~d had with their subsequent arrest; while
made to Margery. These revelations Condradin and Mary Walsingham were
were usef&amp; in proving her own inno- the persons who drew back a panel in
cence and her identity as Harvey Wal- the wainscotting and restored Minny
siagham's wife, and the aunt and sister- Dawaca to the weeping and distressed
in-law of Captain Von Vechten, for he old gardener nJ~iu she only knew as

*

TIlE BLUE BEARDS

her father, and who had ever regarded 1~tffairs of the unhappy and scattered
her as his beloved child and daughter. family.
She, however, was the child qf Mar.y Young George Dawson was legally
Wdsinqhanz, and the very babe that was 1 exonerated from his participation in the
esi-ried 'from Arlington's villa, by the death of Oolonel Burrell, and being re-
old midwife, Mother O'Harra, alias stored to the bdsom of his friends, soon
Margery, on that fe~trful stormy winter after married his quandam sister, the
night., as heretofore detailed. This villa now lovely Jftnny Walsingliam, her
was then in the occupancy of her own mother, uncle and cousin, participating
fiLther, and the old gentleman who wished 'in the happy event.
the babe destroyed by the midwife was It was while the ball in honor of the
none other than himself l He was an nuptuals was going forward, that: the
old man then, and feeling keenly the tones of a lute struck upon the ears of
a~persioris east up@n her purity by the Mary Walsingham, the delighted~ mother
untoward events of the tragedy of the of the fair young bride. Is was music
garden, he wished never to behold th such as she had heard but once in her
face of any one of the hated name o life before, from only one pair of
Walsinghau1 again, not even the infant lips. ~he ~tened again. The music
cherub, heir of Walsingham's house and continued. j She quickly bent her steps
~   daughter's blood. All his family, to the d' section of the conservatory
except Mary, had now deceased, and whence it had appeared to proceed. She
yielding himself a prey to melancholy, caught a glimpse of the lute player.
he soon followed the rest to the world of' She could not be mistaken in his splendid
spirits. Then it ~~'as that his daughter form and noble features. It was the
di~guised herself as the sailQ~-boy, and gallant EDMO~DSON, her first betrothed.
went forth on her strange pil~riniage of They threw themselves into each other's
justice and love. 1~Iinny was the fruit arms, and all the wells of their original
of her truth and devotion to her husbau4, natures overflowed to the'refreshment of
Harvey Walsingham, but she only b~ their hearts after so many long years
came cognizant of her child's fate, in absencee, and amid such strange vicis~i-
the revelations that were made by t~des and chances of every day life. A
Armand and Margery, and th~ corrobo- fekwords sufficed to render the mutual
rative testimony of the old gardener, the explanations satisfactory between them.
worthy Dawson                       Edmcrndsor, informed hor that himeI
(lonradia Walsingham having been and Thornton were twin brothers, which
sent to complete his education in Europe, would~ account foV the strange feeling
he returned to find his grandfather's that Mary had often felt, that her hus-
mansion a desolate house, the alleged band's clerk was in some way connected
abode of ghosts and "goblins damned," with her absent sailor lover. He it was {
and also his wealth and estates, nearly that had fought the duel, and whose
altogether' destroyed through the un-death was reported as the result of the
principled conduct of the lawyer Burrell, quarrel. Thorn~rn Edmondson on 'be-
who had been appoiat~d to settle\ the, ing dismissed from the Navy, became

9


Tiili I3LUE BEARDS AND SCARLET RIBBONS.
~Talsinghain~s clerk, while his brother father of a large portion of his wealth,
Gran aChe, (Mary's lover,) continued in and fled with his no less guilty paramour
the marine service, and had only returned to New Orleans, where he soon after
to his native lanj but a short time before quarreled with his mistress, stabbed her
the present wedding of a daughter of'his to the heart, and ther blew out his own
first and earliest love. He found that brains. The news of th~ guilt of the
his brother Thornton had died in the parties, and terrible end of the young
Lunatic Asylum, from injuries received man and woman, so preyed upon the
on the night he had beca thus entrapped miods of the parents of helen Temple,
to his ruin through the machinations of and upon the old jeweler, La Bue, that
the villain Arlincton and his dupe the they survived but a short time afterward.
infatuated Ida Walton. The elder La Rue bequeathed his re-
Granville Edmondson had now become nMuning fortune to the orphau Blanche,
sole possessor of the larrze wealth of his ~and she, about a year after the death of
father and of an only re~ative, a Southern her parents, became the wife of Conradin
planter, recently deceased. He had al- Wnlsingham. John Jacob Walsinghani
ready given up the career of the navy gave up seafaring, andlived a happy old
to enter upon the ~tCuin curn di~;nut~te bachelor the rest of his life. Baltey
of his life. He soon proposed for a rc- Sowershy recovered from the wound in-
newal of the widow's hand. She gave flhtcd by the French-looking foreigner,
it freely, and crc sir months pad ~vhom he i4 d encountered ~it the theatre
away, since she had found her child and on the ni~ht ~vhea liorrest and Scott
given her away as a sweet bride, she was played together in the great drama of the
herself led to the altar a second time- "(Hadiator;" and remarried Sally Bu!ser,
uniting her affections to the first dearest the saucy, yet virtuous little milliner
object of her maiden heart. girl. Adington committed suicide in
The dark and fearful plot that Helen 'the Walnut Street Prison, and Armai~d,
Teniple had contrived for the destruction Butler, and other accomplices were sent
of the young apothecary, Poihemus, was to the penitentiary for life. Such is the
consummated in his murder, by the girls story of the "Blue Beards and &amp;arlet
lover, the young La Rue After com- ThUons," and of the terrible mysteries
matting the assassination, he robbed his and secret crimes of a 'Lawless League.
p
5
Tm~ END.

4,

i

p)


  
             
         
       
   
