
    ----CITATION----
        Warner, Anna Bartlett, (1827-1915). Dollars and Cents, Vol. 1 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8204
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
      
         
            Dollars and cents, vol. 1
            
            
               DOLLARS ANJY CENTS:

4.k).

"penny, W.enc. emest thou' Penny, whither goest thou f
VOLUME

GEORGE P. PUTNAM, 10

And Penny, when wilt thou returnl
OLD ENGLIa PaovEx.
I.

PARK PLACE.

-M.D CQC O.LII.

S

r,
.l
{',                                            f   C
t
s
Ei
J       1


-'
Entered, according to Act of Congress, inthe year 1859,
Br Gonso P. PuTNAM,
Ia th* Clerk's Offe of the District Court of the United States for the Southern Mtl
of New York.
-
8TERILOTTZD $T
BILL-N &amp; BROTHERS,
SO. 10 NORTH WILLIAM-9T., . T.
GROSSMAN &amp; SON, PUNTIRs,-
69 ASdaTmet.

*

i
"   3N
C1F
l  Ci f
=L
fu-
i
x-
e
N'
5
6
L,
1
x
S
f
{ J
Na
L
Si+
l
rJ
'f

VNaPTZR                                                                  PAGR
I. Long ago............................ ...            .....   5
II.  May-day.....  ...... .. ... . ......... ......... .. .......  10
II. The Moon.................................................        17
JV. Spring-time..............................................    26
V. The white flag on-Brown bluff................................... 34
Vi.Teacups................................................. 40
ViI. Haycocks..........................       ......    ........50
VIII. Wolfgang and his master .......................................59
IX. Our barnyard in October.......................................66
X. Daisy Lea.....................................................79
XI. A panorama of gentlemen...................................... 92
XII. "Sweet peace, where dost thou dwell ?"........................ 103
XIII. The snowball and Miss Holbrook...............................114
XIV. Tongues..........    .....................................127
XV. Fire.........     ..................................137
XVI. What went to Bermuda........................................ 147
XVII. Water........       ........................   ................... 154
XVI.Coffee and cake............................................... 163
XIX. The second Christmas........................................ 173
XX. The four sides of a dinner-table................................. 184
XXI. King Charles and Louis Quatorze............................ 191
XXII. Ready money..................            ........... 204
XXII. Ironing day......        ,...................................209
XXIV. Smoke................................................               220
XXV. Mr. Carvill's             .................................234
XXVI. Miss Easy...................................................       248
XXVII. Mr. Barrington in a ring of roses.................,.......... 257
XXVIII..!" What is worth in any thing,
But so much money as 'twill bring?"...................           7
XXIX. A robber in disguise............................................279
XXX- Kid gloves and soft soap......           .       ........"..""."".......... 287


WHAT THE BOOK IS ABOUT.

C!IAPTUK                                                               ?M
XXXI Pupils ................................................. 297
XXXH. A pleasant knock at the door..............            ........307
XXXIII. A fearful one ................        . ......."... .".......317
XXXIV. The flowers come out and we don't............................ 329
XXXV. Going up in the world.................................340
XXXVI. Pillimaquady ................................................. 351
XXXVI. Jack's bean.................................................. 361
XXXVIII. Enter aduckesolus........................                       373
XXXIX. Mr.Phibbs' blunder....................,............,......382
XL. What Mr. Pratt did with our plate.............................. 389
XLI. Our prospects laid bare........................................ 399
XLII. Where one helped us in and another helped us out..........406
XLIII. Heartsease............    ...................         .....418
XLIV. The road to Ethan College.................................... 430
XLV. Tenants for the Bird's Nest................................... -440
XLVI. Glad or sorry.................................................456
XLVII. The Daphne................................................463
XLVIII. "Only"....................................................... 478
XLIX. The little church at Lake End........................       ..... 498

L".

DOLLARS AND CENTS..
CHAPTER I.
'Tis far off;
And rather like a dream, than an assurance
That my remembrance warrants: Had I not
Four or five women once that tended me?
Ti~XWEST.
JWAS but a young thing, not yet
"Standing with reluctant feet
Where the brook and river meet,
Womanhood and childhood fleet"--
when there came a ige in our outward circumstgiees.
During my first years, we had enjoyed what some of our
ancestors had toiled for; and my father after each d1ay's
soaring and diving into philosophy and science walked about
our garden in silk stockings and with a rose in his mouth,-.
at that time I was a little thing that the rosebushes looked
down upon. And I looked up to them, with admiring eyes
that often went higher still, and took in the straw hat that
Mr. Howard wore of Ai afternoon: certainly that hat nas
a miracle for all purposes of shade and adornment.
Our winters-"were spent in to*ii, and in the long evenings
I, perched on a chair by ,ny'father, studied wit h  the
last engravingswhich he had sent hoiie,- -wonderi  at ihe

4

':;
R

;
'i


6

DOLLARS AND CEWS.

strange German and French names which he pronounced so
easily, and sometimes hiding them with my hand, to test his
skill or recollection. Pleasant little unbound packages !-
pleasant to me still is the thought of their brown and yellow
covers as they lay piled on the pier-table, whither my feet
made frequent journeys, as bundle after bundle was exhaust-
ed. And Kate would look up from her studies and say,
"Another one already !-why how fast you get on to-
night."
And I would reply,
"0O it's only St. Bruno-and we didn't want to see him."
Then at other times there was .talk,-often above my
comprehension, and where I could only amuse myself with
the different looks and tones of the speakers; with Kate's
earnestness and my father's coolness, and with Mrs. How-
ard's smile at them both and at my listening face. If my
father caught sight of this last, he would often end the lesson
he was giving with some laughing remark to me.
"It is well you are a little younger than Kate, Gracie, or
I should do nothing but answer questions."
And to reward my close attention he would give us a
long account of some one of his favourite shells,-where it
was found, and how it was obtained, and what its former
inhabitant lived on,-or now and then a mineral was the
text; but there I soon lost footing again, between the crust
of the earth and its different strata. And yet though my
thoughts could grasp but very little of such subjects, they
seldom came down without someoken of where they had
been-a kind of stepping-stone foi e next effort.
" To labour, and to be content, th what a man hath, is
a sweet life," says some wise proveb: of the first clause
we had then no experience, but for a time we did prove the
second, and the conclusion.
Then came the years of speculation, when money seemed
as inexhaustible as the gold of California, and far more easily
come by. No labour nor content now,-the bargain of
yesterday sold for five thousand dollars advance to-day;
with almost as little ceremony as in the Irishman's "Done
and done, is enough between two jantlemen."-e
I thought and cared little about the matter-even the tan-
gible part of it; though I certainly found it pleasant to ride to

r '  }
ic;1gy
t73 Z

DOLLARS AND CENTS.                 7
- Levy's, and see muslins and silks bought for me'; and also
to pay as many visits as I liked to the candy shops,-but I
had never felt the want of money, and knew not its value-.
even so much as a child may know. It seems strange to me
now, to think of accounts at the Bank,-of the time when
cheques cost but a scratch of my father's pen.-.As I have
said, there came a change.
It came, and was at work some -time before it reached my
understanding; and the tokens of its progress puzzled and
sometimes disturbed me-giving a sort of check like a hand-.
ful of earth thrown on a young plant's head. But the in
pulse of life and spirits was too strong-and after a few"
minutes the shoot would push its way through the encum-
bering soil, and shake off the last particle from its un-tear-
wet leaves.
"Mamma," I said on one of these occasions, "tat,
must have sent home .the wrong handkerchiefs-these ae
near so fine as my last set.")
"I know they are not, Gracie," she answered.
The words struck me with a sort of surprise. That m  YM
stepmother should have done a thing of intent, was as much
as to say, that thing was best to do; and an undefinedIi'f
realization of the truth, took away all desire of further infor-
mation,-I asked not another word. And Mrs. Howard
quietly left the lesson to Time's teaching.
That was in the beginning of our descent-I had yet to
get used to it. Now, on looking back, I feel as if we had
come like a child slipping down hillkagfraid to let ourselves
go, and catching at every bushjto stop our progress; but
that if we had come straight to the bottom, it would ha.
hurt us less than we imagined, and we should the sooner.
have got breath to go up again.   or, even in temporal
things, the valley of humiliation is fair more pleasant than
the side-hill which leads to it. Yet I do not mean to regret
a what. is passed,-the shock has perhaps been less--the
wholesome discipline and experience, greater.
Let me go back for a moment to the time when our
began to lose ground, softly, softly,-when we laid hold of-a
great tree that we thought would sustain us-finding too late
that its top spread further than its roots; ere I tell how that
tree. loosened and loosened, and finally brought us to the


M

4

le

DOLLARS AND CENTS*

foot of the hill.-It did not fall on top of us-that was one
eotafort,--neither strength nor hope was quite destroyed.
"And indeed," says Bunyan of the valley, "it is a fruitful
soil, and doth bring forth by handfuls."-
Gently the wind swept over the snow-covered streets-;
gently, the firelight brightened and faded, brightened and
faded, on the ceiling of the last parlour where we sat as rich
people; while my father was" conning one of a half dozen
evening papers, and pencils and books occupied other
heads and hands that were about the table. Suddenly broke
forth the following advertisement.
"For sale-A large property on the banks of bake Luna,
-consisting of meadow, farm, and woodland--splendid sites
for country-seats, unrivalled water-power, &amp;c.,, &amp;c., &amp;c.
The scenery and salubrity of this celebrated place cannot be
surpassed. Roads of the greatest variety and excellence
afford opportunity for driving and equestrian exercise; while
pedestrians will find a never-failing source of delight in the
romantic strolls about the neighborhood.
"Fish and game abound in every direction ; and the near
ity of the Honiton turnpike (one of the finest in the
00  dy) renders it easy for gentlemen who are so disposed,
tctttend to their business in other places.
"The neighbourhood is eminently moral.
" A celebrated physician has been induced, rather from
regard to the mental than bodily wants of his friends, to
locate in their midst; 'and although there is as yet but one
church within ten miles, other denominations will no doubt
find it for their advantage to share so interesting a region.
"It is also in contemplation to erect a college in Ethan
township.
"The present proprietor being obliged to go to Europe,
is desirous of curtailing his business and responsibilities in
this country; and would dispose of the above grounds on.,
terms that could not fail to render them a profitable pure
chase.
"Apply to R. H. McLoon.-Wall-st., New York."
"Why that is the very place !" said my father.
"uWhatraee7"
*" WhytAe place that brother Ned is 80 anxiious to hav

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

-.

me buy-that he says could be made so productive. He
has been writing of nothing else for the last two months."
"And why should you buy it ?" pursued Mrs. Howard,
with a woman's desire to know the what for-even of a
speculation.
"dWhy ?--O Ned says the purchase money could be
doubled in no time--and I dare say he is right. I presume
it would make myrtune."
Mrs. Howard smiled-one of those smiles that are half a
sigh-and her eye glanced. round the room. A superb coal
fire and an equally superb Carcelle lamp, shone upon Turkey
carpets, damask curtains and sofas, chandeliers, carved furni-
ture, pictures, shells and statues; while between the windows
a second fire and lamp seemed to gleam and blaze in the
long mirror, and called forth a reflection even from the far
end of the next room. "Make my fortune !"-
"Well ?" said my father as the quiet eye came back from
its survey. "Well ?---what now ?"
"I was thinking," replied my stepmother, "of what soite
body said to Alexander."
"Fiddle-de-dee !" said my father, "but at that rate nobody
would ever speculate."
Another slight smile, a half sorrowful shake of the head,
answered this remark, and my father seemed a little posed.
" To be sure"-he said thoughtfully, "the place is larger
than I.like-some thousand acres I believe,-and would need
a good deal of attention and outlay. Well, we shall see,-.
I will talk to Ned about it; but I always thought you would
like a country-seat again "
1*

.4

s
Z t,
4 !'
{i
'i
y
t'
r
S
t
i
t


DOLLARS A.ND CENTS.               11

10            DOLLARS AND CEYTS.

lp , Ali
rfh }rf
y'  jyt y
ztr
Baer
r jSr
y    ?4
'a4
t ,tit
.    rrf$ tr
af

CHAPTER II.

From thence the tide of fortune left the shore,
And ebb'd much faster than it flow'd before.
DRYDEN.

T HE man who getting frightenedwhen half across a river,
turned about and swam back, has been more laughed at
than he deserved; for there is always at least a question of
shores, and the remnant of that strength which will suffice to
reach either, may be much the most available on one. It is
jjassible to rest and recruit, where enterprise would be
madness.
' Had we followed this renowned example, and turned our
backs upon Fortune when she took leave of us, we should
have been-I don't know what-it is impossible now to say ;
but we should not have been the possessors of Glen Luna.
Like wise people we pushed on, and entered "the diggings"
with neither the proper utensils nor the means and skill to
procure and use them.
One precautionary measure we did take-we sold our
town house,-as soldiers burn the ships which have brought
them where they are to-conquer or die. It was not quite
for the same reason; but the times were changed now, in
earnest, and as we could not keep all, of course we chose
the new. How far this desired possession had made it
needful to part with most things else, perhaps no one
guessed but Mrs. Howard; nor do I now know. One thing
was certain,-we were to leave Philadelphia, and because
we must.
Various were the opinions of people about us and our
private arrangements,-and my father's regard to them was
as steadily cool and careless. In the first place he merely
meant to go for the summer ; and had that not been so, with

the glowing visions he had in prospect Mr. Howard would
nave said,
"No shame to stoupe one's head, more higher to rear;
And much to gain, a litel for to yield."
Shame !-that found no place in my father's mind, with
such a police as his own honour and self-respect; and if he
had been to try his. hand at daily labour instead of a new
speculation, he would have walked.as erect, and look people
in the face as unshrinkingly. He had no fear of losing him-
self, anywhere.
Mrs. Willet declare&amp; his conduct was "noble ! noble !"-
a speech I could make nothing of, for I understood but par.
tally the reasons of that conduct. It seemed a small piece
of self-denial to give up one house for another ; and as my
imagination had already supplied Glen Luna with chickens,
cats, and flowers-..three tribes that flourish but ill in a city
-I thought we were like to gain as many pleasures as we
should lose. But sense and appreciation were quickened ash
the last weeks came, and I knew them to be thglast, and
felt them going !
Stephanie Holbrook-a somewhat quicksilver ward of my
father's.......was to spend our moving-time with her aunt, Mrs.
Eustace; and as Kate had not been well, it was agreed that
she should go too and escape the confusion. While they
remained, nothing was stirred nor taken leave of. Yes-.
there was one exception,-Kate and I had a farewell drive,
and stood watching the quick'feet of our receding ponies as
they trotted round the corner, with a feeling of sadness that
would perhaps have been deeper, had we known how many
a long day would pass before their successors appeared at
Glen Luna. But. at all events these were old friends; and
we had seen them toss their heads and kick their feet over
the traces, till we felt well acquainted. Perhaps too, the
young hearts felt what the young reason could not quite fol
low out and define,--some shadowy 'if: as though other of
our comforts were beginning to trot off in a eloudof dust.
Certainly we both entered the house feeling very sober ; and
I began to cling more closely to all we were to part with.
It 1i good that we can keep our saddle-horses," Kate said
with a half sigh,-." I should be sorry to think we should

.

P, K


12L             DOLLARS AND CENTS.
never mount Puck and Mopsa again. But pap      ys he
shall make us ride a great deal, Gracie."
I assented, with that qualifying breath of which I was
learning the use, but the house did not regain its old look.
Neither was there any other look to brighten it. There was
altogether too much resolution about my father-he could
not have come down to common intercourse, if he had had
time. Mrs. Howard was too busy, and too anxious; and
Kate's untutored foot tried too hard to keep step with my
father's. Stephanie chose her own way of expressing her
thoughts.
"Do you suppose, Kate," she would say, "that we shall
have any occasion for kid gloves in the backwoods ? Or
what do you think of our speculating a little-selling all
our laces and buying linen collars? a great many more than
we want, but still very useful. I don't know whether Mech-
lin and Valenciennes will be quite becoming in farmer's
daughters."
4'     A very decided refusal of this last title was expressed by
Kate witlut words.
"You may be as scornful as you please, my dear-it's
9 true. I don't know what the women wear, but you'll not
see a coat in that region that isn't made of baize, nor a pair
of pantaloons of anything but velveteen."
"I shall pot see many of them," was Kate's cool rejoinder.
Other people however, took up the same notion; and we
were favoured with more than one speech of warning and
condolence; but they went for little, because, as we said, no
one had any right to make them. Meanwhile the season
stood not still, and by the time spring was half gone Mrs.
Eustace came for her visiters. That was the breaking-up
day-after it the sooner we went the better.
It did not look like breaking up,-the April sun shone very
fairly, and all the imprisoned birds in the street sang their
gratitude for the imaginary freedom they enjoyed outside.
the briclk walls; or rather that the wires which kept them
in were 'passable to sunbeams. So were not the dark lines
which had ranged themselves around me,-I had treasured
up all my regrets for that day, and there was not one of.
them wanting. From that chief one-the parting with Kate
.-the rest seemed to stretch away in perspective. .

r
.
IC
t      ,'
RY      !-
Nt
.  'tr
Y

DOLLARS AND CENTS.                13
I said goodbye to Stephanie and saw her get into the dari
riige, ungoved; but when Kate ready dressed for her jour.
ney came down stairs, and ,pausing in the hall took.one look
.    at the drawing-room-one last survey of the things we had
loved and the place where we had been so happy-I felt a
degree of sorrow that surprises me even now; and when she
slowly-turned away and passed out of the front door, I felt
that we had quitted our home,-the after dismantling would
be a less matter,-the crisis was passed.
And yet it was a trial to see our beautiful rooms, where
taste and fancy and wealth had been so effective, st ipped of
all their adornments,-to have the associations}which like
sprites lurked in the folds of the window curtains, perched on
the chandeliers, and peeped at us from statues and vases
scattered and driven away into the cold world of strangers.
Poor little sprites !-they come round me now, once in a
while. Even the things we were to take with us seemed to
share the general air of confiscation-it was hard to realize
that we were to see them again, or to believe that they could
look the same when taken out of their rough boxes and set
down in a new place.
S;   Then the furniture to be sold must be examined and dis-
played; and this latter duty fell upon me.
How did I feel the lines of my face change, as with a child-
ish feeling of dignity and grave as was ever bearded senator
I obeyed my father's summons to the drawing-room, and went
through all the myste ies of drawers and cushions and
strings and locks,-of which Mr. Howard knew about as
much as most men.
These strangers were not of those who " walk as friends,"
-they had bought our house and now wished to buy some
of its contents,-it never seemed to occur to them that it
was not quite the same thing as going to a cabinet-maker's.
They thought but of their own interest-not of my sorrow;-
nor ever dreamed that the child who knelt by the sofa and
busied herself in untying'the strings of its chintcoyer, had
eyes and fingers half unfitted for the task. Thee waas no
look -towards me, n softening or hushing of their comments;
no gentle word o smile, Perhaps it was well,-I could
1hardly have borne them.
-An~d so I went quietly through my task, while Mr. How-

_;
x
f.'-
,, ,
.   :
,


DOLLARS AND CENTS.            15

14            DOLLARS AND CENTS.

ard walked up and down with an air of the most frigid
abstraction, and the future occupants talked and canvassed
and measured,-this they would take because it would fit,
and that they would not take because it was old-fashioned.
Thie' ier-glasses happened to meet their approbation; and.[
think sometimes of those quiet mirrors hanging there still-.
clear, bright as ever; while the little figure that danced
before them is so changed-so altered !
Oh how the new-comers plagued us during those succeed-
ing days of confusion ! Not content with sending their fur-
niture, they would come themselves,-walk through the
house, open the room-doors and look in, until even the quiet
Mrs. Howard threatened desperate measures. And when I,
sometimes sick and often tired and sad, was sent upstairs
out of the way of cold and dust; and sat there all alone,
wearying myself for my sister; the first thing would be the
intrusion of a bonnet and one of those chilling strange faces.
I really thought they might have taken it out in looking at
the furniture below. But whatever else the Barons were,
they were no practisers of kind politeness; and the head of
the family drove our cook to the last stage of indignant
ridicule, by walking into the kitchen and requesting to see
the pot-closet! "She hadn't an idea that Mr. Howard had
ever heard of such a'thing-no more a gentleman ought!
What had he to do with kittles but to eat what come out of
'em ?--and as to wanting to know where they was kep"-
words failed, and she could do nothing but laugh.
" Prosperity gains friends, and adversity tries them."-
The day our first carpet was taken up, a neighbour whom
we knew very slightly sent a most cordial note of request
that we would all 'come and stay with her till we were ready
to leave town. It could not be done, but the kindness was
not forgotten-is not to this day. Meantime nothing was
heard from Mrs. Osborne round the corner, nor Mrs. Willet
over the way,-both old friends.
My stepmother found that she had no time for, farewell
visits; but the day before we were to go, she sent me to say
goodbye to a few whom age or long acquaintanceship marked
out for such an attention. With what a strange mood I
went my'little round, feeling neither very well nor''very
bright; exchanging silent greetings with the pavements and

familiar corners, and now and then finding my grave little
self in a circle of well-known faces and loudly-spoken adieus
-I suppose they were meant for that; though they had a
kind of abstraction, a savour of curiosity or wonder or care.
lessness, that kept them very far from my heart. At the
end of the round I came to Mrs. Willet's large stone house;
and after ringing the bell I stood looking up at its grey front
-becurtained to the very attic-wondering curiously with
myself when I should stand on those steps again. I was
received in full divan,-for the three Miss Whets who
would have been girls in any other house, were young ladies
;n this, with all the rights of curls and braids and flounces;
and this morning their toilet had even preceded their
mother's.
When do you leave town ?" inquired Mrs. Willet.
"To-morrow afternoon, ma'am."
"Well Grace my dear, can't you all come and sleep here
to-night? we've plenty of room you know. Wouldn't it be
a convenience ? I might have had you before, and to dinner
and breakfast, but I didn't think of it. Won't Mrs. Howard
come?~"
"I don't think she can, Mrs. Willet."
Come, I'll go and ask her myself."-
And cutting my audience short, the lady ventured her
turbaned head into the street; but when she had half crossed
the space which divided the two houses, another lady went
up our steps.
Who is that ?" said my companion stopping short.
. .'jy I "Mrs. s.Baron."
" bless me, I can't go-Pm not dressed-I know her ;"
and back ran Mrs. Willet, nor did we see or hear from her
again.
I have sometimes thought, that not till we are in trouble
can we understand the force of that expression, "the salt of
the earth."  How might one look, one word, season as it
were whole scores that are flat and heartless. I did not fol.
low out any such idea, nor indeed get hold of it; but the
want was upon me as I reached the dusty and littered side-
walk, and saw my father overseeing the loading of a cart
d.'atawm rovreigth                        odg facr,
nd then found my way to Mrs. Howard and declared my-

I

'
r
h
t
d
i
rt
i
V
-  v     Y
i
t-
zr
r

s f°,' 3.
rp                n
kx                 H'


DOLLARS AND     ENTS.DOLLARS AND
I had been under a cloud;--but now that the house was    1
cleared the sky seemed brighter. Child-like, I turned my
thoughts forward ; and when the last hour came, and we
drove away leaving our old servants grouped together on
the sidewalk, I was much less sad than I had been before the
moving began.
CHAPTER
0 my ainfireside! my ainfiresid
There's nought like a blink o' on
R. NED HOWARD lived in
.Itvis-A-vis of our new home, and
those regions as "the Moon,"-whe
horns of the lake half enclosed it, o
settler had been learned enough to tra
watery crescent, I know not; but th
and in the Moon lived Mr. Ned H
rather say near it-in the village-sh
word-and somewhat looked up -to
being rich enough to do nothing.
Thither we came one rainy night in
long journey and with the unsettled
spirits; and there we took up our a
be somewhat set in order.
No wet travellers ever received a
Mrs. Ned put herself in a bustle, her
ner of questions; and bustle and q
down when we caught a glance of
and saw the glad expression of his {
word and look then.
Mrs. Ned Howard was a very diff
husband. She had the misfortune t
thought a good family, and was not suf
sense and fine etceteras to bear her
her-silk dress always rustled, and h
gloves to, breakfast and white gloves
the exceeding erectness of her head yoi

[IT.:IT
III.
e!-
e's sin fireside!
OLD sONG.
a village which was the
which was known in
;ther because the two
)r because .some early
Lnslate the name of our
e Moon it was called,
Toward. Or I should
ip, if one may coin a
by his neighbours for
t April, weary with the
state of our affairs and
bode until both should
more stirring welcome.
mother asked all man-
uestions went sweetly
ny uncle's bright eyes
ace. We had the one
rent person from heS
o be come of what she
ficiently ballaste wi
honours meekly, S
er hands wore brown
to dinner; andfre
u might have supposed

I'


18           DOLLARS AND ON2 S.

that there was an imaginary crown upon it, which she was
afraid would tumble off.
Neither was the lady forgotten in the minor affairs of life.
Rear meat bordered upon hysterics-a large piece of bread
upon disgust; and as to beginning dinner without at least a
puree a-la-creme-Mrs. Ned would have thought it the ex-
treme of barbarism. The currants came on table with all
- their natural addenda of stems, leaves, and cobwebs-but
free from the pollution of any hands save the gardener's,-
Mrs. Ned's own fingers dipped every cherry that she eat in
a glass of water. Indian corn was a puzzler;-but with her
own peculiar notions about "the least of two evils," Mrs.
Nod promptly summoned a servant to cut the grains from
the cob, that the delicacy might be within reach of her
fork.
Unhappily, she had never learned to act out the common
but expressive maxim, "Put the best foot foremost."-Yet
there could be a most kind smile in her eye, a most friendly
tone in her voice; but in her education the good had not
been developed, nor the evil kept down.
Mrs. McNamara had all her daughter's temper and pride,
without the redeeming qualities. Her eye was cold, inquis-
itive, or sinister, by turns. No needless toilet labour here;
-if the grey woollen wrapper with which Mrs. McNamara
covered her head in cold weather could have been exchanged
for something more tidy-even for another of its own species
--it would have been a public benefit. And in her combi-
nation there was an ingredient far more disagreeable than
Mrs. Ned's anomaly of sharp bluntness,-the faint shadow
of a second face under the hood, makes the first a thing to
look away from. Perhaps the object on earth to which she
had most regard, was her youngest son, Victor McNamara ;
but of him I need only say that, inheritance and education
had unhappily combined their forces.
"And how does the house look, Ned ?" said my father.
a Well, very well, but you are wanted sadly. I'm sure
Morrison lets his men stand idle one half the time."
"I doubt whether they stand idle," said my father.
bstingho ollwhat you please. They haven't near done
"Blasting !" said my stepmother. "But I thought the

-                                               1";i'afS;
f
b .t iti
+i:-tr xt"
r    t5j1
"        n    r
r
"    i
' t.
T,
t
'
.t s .
'rat
"i r
"   H iM
fit
x                      -
"                      F Y' ,  Qtly{       p
.i     -    }r

DOLLARS AND CENTS.                19
house was almost finished,-are they at the foundations
yett'"
"'No, no, my dear--not at'all,--this has nothing to do with
the house. I am only taking off the top of a height that came
in the way of a certain view I want."
"But will the view be as pretty as the height ?"
" Of course-If it isn't we can put the rocks back
again."
"It will be a great comfort to yourhusband to have you
here to advise him," said Mrs. McNamara in a soft waythat
at once gave one a caution. "Gentlemen know so little how
to get on alone."
lt is fortunate that nothing can be discovered where there
is nothing to conceal. My stepmother's quiet ." Do you
think so ?" made Mrs. McNamara settle her wrapper and
change her ground.
"What did you do with all your furniture ?"
"All that we did not sell we brought with us."
"I suppose you didn't save any of your parlour furni-
ture ? Dear, dear, what a pity "
"It was no very great pity to part with what we could
not use here," said my stepmother smiling,--" and some of
it we kept."
Not mirrors or anything of that sort ?"
"Of course not !" put in Mrs. Ned. "Do you think they
have no sense
" Why my dear I didn't know."
" I think if you will excuse us," said my stepmother,
" Grace and I will go to bed,-we are both tired. Iuppose
we have the same room as last summer?"
" No," said Mrs. Ned,--" the front room on the second
floor."
"rBut that is your room-I would much prefer the other."
" No," said Mrs. Ned again,-"it makes no difference to
me, and that one has been arranged for you."
My stepmother hesitated a moment, and then saying good
"Igt shem e are givinga geat deal of trouble," she said
when our door was shut,-" thid will hurry our house-clean-
"It wasn't very goodnatured of aunt Harriet to put us in

4


I

20              DOLLARS AND CM. TS.
this room," I remarked ; but Mrs. H ward ma e no reply,
and I went to bed and dreamed of our i' u4ljponies.
There was a bright sun shining when  opened my eyes
next day; and as I looked at the various objects in our room
-the dark carved bedstead, the glass jars of West India
snakes, (I don't think I always felt sure of their prison-walls)
-the blue sofa, the lamp,-there came a thought of some-
thing else that I had wanted to do or see-what was it ?
My mind roved about for a minute, and then I had sprung
out of bed and was peeping through the window curtains to
get a distant first view of our new home. There it lay on
the other side of the lake, the fresh boards showing bare and
unhomelike in the sun; and the quiet Sunday morning in-
vesting everything with a character that even the eye could
perceive.  It looked pleasant, it looked peaceful ;-and
though its appearance suggested neither chandeliers nor long
mirrors, I turned away with only one feeling of dissatisfac-
tion,-I could not have a nearer view till next day.
Meanwhile the hours were sufficiently uneventful. Mrs.
Howard was in bed all the morning with a headache ; and
except that when I was ready for church Mrs. McNamara
inquired, "if that was my last winter's bonnet," my presence
excited little attention. Happily, I needed it not,-iny mind
was full of its own fresh pleasures,-the fountain asked no
supply from anybody's hand.  I had never been in that
region before, though my uncle had lived there three or four
years; but since he left Philadelphia none of us had tried
Mrs. Ned's hospitality but my father and mother, and the
latter only once. So everything was quite new to me-4I
had not even made its acquaintance at second-hand; and
first impressions came in a delightful stream.
There never was such a walksto church-there never was
such another church at the end of a walk,-and there I was
not far wrong. It stood at the western extremity of the
lake, the beautifully kept groundwork of turf running quite
down to the still water, the boundaries set back among the
trees so as to be invisible. No pillar reared its Corinthian
capital there,-the rough hewn stone, the unpretending, sub.-
stantial architecture, gave to the little church an air of truth
and frankness that was very pleasing ; and echoes caught
each stroke of the bell, and gave them back with faint and

*

r
r
ci
4 '
i. '  .,
r
1

'-I

DOLLARS AND CENTS.
fainter music. I came home in a sort of ecstasy, and assured
my stepmother as she sat in the easy-chair by the fire, that
it was "the very loveliest place anybody had ever lived in."
"And it cannot be so very lonely, mamma," I added,
"for even on the side where our house is I saw smoke com-
ing out of the woods in several places. Now mamma, you
need not smile-don't you remember how Mrs. Osborne
talked about there being nobody here ?"
"I shall have no fears for your happiness Gracie, when,
we are once settled."
" O I should be very happy to-day-if it was only to-
morrow."
I thought myself so as it was, when afternoon brought
me another walk ; and in the few minutes before and after.
service I tried to see something of the congregation, and to
decide over which of the assembled heads that smoke was
in the habit of curling ; but most probably I chose the wrong
ones.
Monday morning brought a disappointment.
"You will not think of going to Glen Luna yourself?"
said Mrs. Ned. as she drew on the brown gloves after break-
fast.
" Certainly," replied my stepmother,-".I am going at
once. But I think I shall not take Grace-the weather looks
threatening."
"I did not suppose you dreamed of taking her," said
Mrs. Ned,-" such a child is only in one's way and in dan-
ger of getting sick. I think you are very unwise to go
yourself."
" Dear me! to be sure!" said Mrs. McNamara with a
voice that made me wonder what concern of hers it could
possibly be.
"Indeed I am never in mamma's way," I interposed. But
a few drops of rain settled the question, and sorrowfully
enough I watched Mr. and Mrs. Howard drive away.
0 the weariness of being left alone ! especially where one
does not want to be.
It did not rain after all, and Mrs. Ned and Mrs. McNamara
went out for their usual daily walk in the garden.' Perhaps
they feared I might follow them, for at the foot of the steps
Mrs. Ned paused, and called out,

U
k"1' ,r        N       '' 1


fj W
k
; .
"
i

.DOLLARS ANDL CENTS,

"Victor ! take Grace and show her the beauties of the
~orchard."
Nobody wanted me.--Victor, who had grown to that un-
comfortable age which is neither one thing nor the other,
escorted me a little way into the orchard, showed me two
dead pigs which lay in the road, and then went off to his own
pursuits. And I, knowing better than to go after the ladies,
re-entered the house, and sent longing glances .to those new
clap-boards which seemed the pleasantest thing in sight.
Now among the peculiarities of Mrs. Ned and her mother
was an insane desire to keep cool--not within but without,
it Was their idiosyncrasy. At that chill time of year when a
fire is wanted almost as much as in winter, there was none
to be seen; unless possibly three sticks at night and two in
tL~e morning. Also the windows were opened immediately
after breakfast, and not shut again until--I hardly knw
when. The rules of the house were a very slight lunch and,
a very late dinner. I went upstairs with no inward or out-
ward defence against the cold, and between that and hunger
was fairly driven into dreamland, and slept a good part of
the morning.
It would be hard to describe my satisfaction one evening,
when the weather being cooler than usual or Mrs. Ned more
sensitive, she really wanted a fire--aid a fire could not be
had. There was no wood sawn, and'the saw was broken,
and nobody to mend it; and the way she shivered and
warmed her hands over the chafingdish comforted me for
a week's freezing.
Three days did Mrs. Howard go and come without me-
ravishing my ears every night with accounts of chickens and
garden;--on the fourth I was again left behind but with a
promise that I should follow her at midday with Mr. Ned.
With what joy did I set out ! with what concentrated
senses did I take note of everything ! how little justice I gave
the speed of my uncle's good horses. It was a long drive,
for beyond the church the. road swept back from the lake,
and made quite a circuit before it approached Glen Luna,.
I wished myself on foot that I might take one of the tanta-
lizing little paths which promised a shorter route;- but as my
uncle said, it would be all the same when we had once got
there,---and it was.

The house itself was not only upside down with erpen
ters and masons, plasterers and painters, but literally "turn-
ed out of the windows ;" for boxes of furniture were stand.
ing about the lawn in- all directions. A child's magnifying-
glass has no lens for troubles. What did I care for the
blasting in one direction, the scraper and oxen in another;
the boards, the nails, the utter aid hopeless confusion every-
where ?---they were all hidden, at least from my mind's eye,
by a brood of little soft downy chickens that called a barrel
their home, and a most benign-looking old hen their mother.
So I watched them, brought chips to the little kitchen which
looked like one of our town pantries, examined my new
garden tools, clambered up and jumped down the front door
step-it was then full three feet from the ground,-and
finglly went upstairs and seated myself in the midst of
baskets and jars and bundles, to lunch. I had been offered
something to eat before I left the Moon, but preferred to
reserve my appetite for home stores; and with a good will
I now brought it to bear upon bread and butter and rasp-
berry jam.
Luncheon over, Mr. Ned proposed that I should go home
with him, but my mind was made up to the contrary. So
he departed alone, Mrs. Howard returned to her labours and
I to mine; and surely I wore rose-coloured spectacles that
day, if ever child did. Indeed I careered about rather too
much for Mrs. Howard's comfort, for while I was quietly
digging up flowers at the edge of the woods, or walking
round some rock or knoll to see what was on the other side,
she would get quite frightened about me.
Towards evening my uncle sent a boat for us, as being the
quickest and least fatiguing way of getting back ; and after
a last feeding of chickens and locking of doors, we set out to
cross the lake. It was near dark but very quiet, and the
dip of the oars was as good as a lullaby. Gently my spirits
subsided, and I came back to the every-day world.
"How very good dinner will taste !" said I.
"Yes," said Mrs. Howard,"I begin to feel qite hungry."
"You had better curb both appetite and expectation,"
said my father,-" it is long past dinner-time."
" But papa ! they must have saved us some,-for they knew
we should be very hungry."

pA
I.
-9

22

:
L_

23

DOLLARS AND CEN ''&amp;

I


DOLLARS AND CENTS

"Hum"-said Mr. Howard as the gat struck the shore,
--" wefI-must is a strong word no doubt, but you are wel-
come to my share of the dinner, Gracie."
My stepmother and I went directly upstairs, and having
made ourselves presentable we descended to the parlour
with our hopes somewhat cooled by my father's remarks.
He had reason.
The tea-table was set with wafers of bread and butter and
fractions of toast, but dinner might have been an obsolete
meal for all that appeared to the contrary. We took our
seats without a word.
"Harriet," said my uncle taking a survey of the plates
before'him, "didn't you save some dinner for these peo-
ple ?"
"Certainly not Mr. Howard-I thought they knew our
dinner-hour."
" But when people are cleaning house they can't be tied
down to a minute."
"I could not r possibly tell when they would come," re-
plied Mrs. Ned, her face flushing and the imaginary crown
in unusual danger ;-" and as to waiting dinner it would
have been absurd-I did not know but they would choose
to dine on the other side."
"Choose to dine on chips and mortar !"'said my uncle
with a mixture of laugh and vexation. "Is there nothing left
from dinner ?"
"I really cannot tell, Mr. Howard," said Mrs. Ned get-
ting up and ringing the bell with great energy,-" how should
1 know what was left from dinner ? Charles," she added as
the waiter came in, "just go down stairs and bring up any.
cold meat and vegetables that you can find."
"And tell Violet to warm them first," said my uncle.
There was a moment's pause, and then my stepmother
entered her protest,-in vain.
" Certainly we could have dinner," Mrs. Ned replied-"'if
there was any,"-so we half waited and half went on eating,
till the arriggpl of some boiled fish re-warmed, brown un-
comfortableooking potatoes, and beets.
By this time Mrs. Ned recollected herself and did the
honours of the Cod as well as might be; but we had eaten
so many of the decimal fractions, and had heard so much

conversation, that the reinforcement was little heeded except
by my father,-who gaLhis dinner very unconcernedly.
Three weeks passed thus. Every day we went to the
Glen, but having been taught our lesson we took care always
to return by dinner-time. Every day I made some new
discovery,-a strange wild-flower-a nice chicken-coop in
place of the barrel-a moss pincushion of peculiar luxuriance,
or a rock that had some extraordinary advantages as a table
or a lookout. But Mrs. Howard grew very tired of the
punctual-dinner system, and found it most inconvenient to be
so far from the scene of action ; and at last she resolved to
take possession of our house before it was quite ready for
us, and let Mrs. Ned have her own room again. So we
removed.
It was near the gloaminst, when we took our first meal at
Glen Luna,-we three. The two older ones thinking grave-
ly of ways and means, prospects and probabilities,-the
younger with "eyes brimful of delight," and a mood that
thought herrings and bread and butter the very best things
that ever were eaten.
And a whip-poor-will who knew not of our coming, sat on
a tree close by the house, and sang-as he thought, to him-
self-but to us it seemed a strange, wild welcome. We
could not translate his plaintive notes, yet not one of the
listeners but felt an echo of that trill,-as wild, as untrais-
latable.
And we were fairly established in our new home ;-and
one of the number at least, had very bright hopes and fore-
bodings-an undefined expectation of everything pleasant.

25

24

DOLLARS AX D GENTS.

{ _7
l


10

2o

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

CHAPTER IV.
Our youth! our childhood! that spring of'springs!t
Tis surely one of the blessedest things
That nature ever invented!
When the rich are wealthy, beyond their wealth,
And the poor are rich in spirits and health,
And all with their lots contented!
HOOD.
IJUWE were awaked next morning by a perfect concert of
cat birds and song spari'ows,-waked to see the sun
rise on our new habitation, and our untried country life.
Who does not remember some first awaking in a strange
place ?-the quiet lying still as the eye takes in unwonted
walls and windows that are bright with the old familiar sun-
Iight,-the gradual gathering up of the stray ends of remem-
brance-the where, the how, and the whence,--and then the
sudden spring of both mind and body at the thought of the
new and unproved things that await one below stairs.
I remember it all, though now what my waking eyes first
rest upon has been so often seen in every variety of early
light, that I can hardly realize its having ever looked strange
to me ;-as hardly as that the cat birds which have sung at
my matinees this summer, were then unheard of in the musi-
cal world : or by some remote possibility of long life, were
on that very morning hiding their undeveloped feathers and
faculties together, beneath a blue egg-shell. So have we
both emerged !-they from the nest, I front the child's mist
which was pervious to nothing but sunshine.
Uncle Ned was at the door by the time we had break-
fasted; ardi after some words of greeting and advice, and a
long message from Mrs. Ned and Mrs. McNamara about
our health and happiness, he and I set forth on a walk. All
neW to me,-all glittering with fresh dew-drops!

27

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

My uncle was in his element, and talked almost as fast as
I did. Now he led the way through a little thicket of young
trees, charging me to tell my father that there was the place
to transplant from; now he pointed out some fair little
flower and told of his success or failure when he had tried to
inure it to his garden. It was in that walk I first saw
the moccasin flower, or rather its bud, for they were not
near their full size and had scarce begun to -show colour.
But we dug them up-vain experiment ! and Mr. Ned told
of yellow ones that he had found; and then I hoped that
every green bud a little paler than usual belonged to the
yellow species. We found too the fair pink azalea,-the
shadblossom-with more literal but less spiritual fairness;-
and mosses and ferns, and little nameless white flowers that
to this day I know only by sight.
There is nothing left of t-iat walk but the remembrance.
The child and the man have both passed away :-the slight
flower has raised up its head and shaken out its full petals,
-the stronger plant has withered and been cut down.
We came back in a great heat, for the sun had got the
vantage-ground and was pouring down his beams with as
perfect unconcern as if we had been pine-apples. Mr. Ned
threw himself on the ground in the shade, while I went off
to dispose of my spoils. Presently I heard,
"Grace, Grace !- here's a new flower for you !" I ran, but
all I could see at first was my uncle, still on the grass and
laughing very contentedly,-then.I espied the object of his
contemplation in a slow-moving mud-turtle. I don't know
why we laughed-unless our spirits were just waiting for a
chance, but the mud-turtle had some reason to turn about
and laugh at us.
"Now run," said my uncle, " and see if we are to have any
luncheon, for I must be going home."
"Where's mamma, Caddie ?" I called out as I approached
the house.
"Sure I don't know, Miss, but she's got company."
"Company !" I hesitated, but curiosity carried it over
timidity and I marched on.
"Yes ma'am," was the first thing I heard as I entered,
"do you think you will like it here, Mrs. Howard ? yes, I
do hope so indeed-I shall be so glad,-yes maa.


DOLLARS AND GENTS.                     DD

My stepmother was in the kitchen, cap on head and broom
in hand, and opposite to her stood a lady who looked as if
house-cleaning and moving had formed no chapter of her ex-
istence. Not very tall nor very large, rather delicately
formed indeed,-her morning dress spotless, a nice little
parasol in her hand; while on her head the very pink of pink
handkerchiefs selfdenyingly received the dust wherewith our
atmosphere was loaded.
"1And this is one of your daughters, yes," said the lady as
she caught sight of me,-" the oldest I suppose, yes ma'am.
How old is the youngest ?"
"This is the youngest," replied my stepmother.
"The youngest? but my dear Mrs. Howard you surprise
me indeed, yes. I hope they will come and see me very
often, yes ma'am. And won't you let one of them go home
with me and stay till you get settled ?-or both of them,-
yes ma'am, it would give me so much pleasure."
" There is only this one at home now," said my stepmother
smiling, and I think she could hardly be prevailed on. to leave
me without her important assistance. But we are very,
much obliged to you for such a kind offer, Miss Caffery, and
for coming to see us in all this dust and confusion."
"Dust?" said Miss Caffery,-" 0 I have seen dust before,
ma'am-yes very often; and I can always breathe where my
friends can. Not obliged at all-it would be only a pleasure
to me, yes. But I wish you could come out of it for a while."
"I will come and see you as soon as Iam out of it," said.
Mrs. Howard, "you may be sure of that."
"Yes ma'am, pray do. And do send to me if I can be of
any use,-I should be so glad to help you; yes ma'am, I
should indeed."
And the pink handkerchief departed, somewhat the worse
I fear for its sojourn in our kitchen, and we saw it passing
along the walk till it reached the woods and was hidden
like a rose in the green foliage. Then Mrs. Howard and I
looked at each other and laughed-at least I did-heartily;
but my stepmother soon checked herself and then me.
Come," she said, "you must not let your amusement
change into ridicule,-Miss Caffery is by no means a subject
for it."
"Who is Miss Caffery ?"

"One of our neighbours."
" One of our neighbours! I didn't know we had any.'
"Have you forgotten the smoke that came out of the
woods in two or three places ?" said Mrs. Howard smiling.
" No, but mamma you laughed at that, so I thought maybe
it was nothing after all. Where does Miss Caffery live?"
"Some distance below us, on the lake ; but I don't think
you have seen her house-it is almost hidden by trees."
"But what is she ?"
" She is a lady."
"-Dear mamma, I know that ! I mean who 'is she, and
what does she do, and who does she live with ?"
"She is Miss Easy Caffery, for your first question; and
for the second, I shall know better what she does when I
have seen more of her. She lives with her cousin, Miss
Avarintha Bain-or rather Miss Bain lives with her,"
." Alone ?"
" Alone in the parlour,-I presume they have servants in
the kitchen."
" Well they have got a pair of names between them !" I
remarked. "But mamma, have we any more neighbours ?"
"I think it is probable, but Gracie run and call your
father and uncle to lunch. If they had not been more for-
earing than your chickens we should have been deafened
y this time, and they would have been hoarse-which un-
appily, chickens never are.
This was our last day of fine weather. We had first a
long quaker storm, and then a long storm of some other
kind and of most unquakerlike vehemence, with'only a day's
sunshine between. Rain, rain,-the potatoes washed out of
.          the ground and I kept close prisoner in the house. ,.Now
there was literally not one habitable apartment. The bed..
room walls were so damp that the windows were dripping
with water, every morning when we-got up,-(Mrs. McNa-
mnYta could'not imagine why we were not sick); and though
wemanaged to get three dusted chairs and a fire when
ever     ne; by day.both parlour and kitchen were a
compound-of paint and plaster-streams of cold air and of
tsoasuds. If I had but been a mason or a cleaner all would
,ar'.e been. well enough. I had noeathly objection to touch-
nig either-mlortar or, soap; but eerely to see anid smell

a       ,Y
L_    i

28

2s

.DOLLARS A17 CENTS.

" " .


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

them was not pleasant;' and danger as well as discomfort
came hand in hand with the damp air from without. As a
last resort I betook myself to the garret, and reigned queen
of the new floor and the old lumber. It was a dear-bought
eminence. There I sat, hour after hour and day after day,
with nothing to do, with no one to speak to: sometimes
watching the carpenter bees, who thought our rafters were
laid for their express accommodation,-sometimes looking
over at the misty Moon across the lake; and then wonder-
ing wearily what Kate was doing, and whether she wanted
me as I wanted her. I wonder at myself now for those long
lonely days.
I had besought our whitewasher to get me a cat, but the
cat was long in coming,-still the -mere hope was good, as
far as it went. Now and then when I got very tired I
clambered down the steep ladder-like steps, and wrapping
myself up, went and stood by the painter to watch his up-
strokes and down-strokes.
Then when the weather held up a little I would run out
to see my chickens ; but the poor things with their half-
grown wings drooping to the ground, looked as desolate as
I was ; and their shrill piercing "peep ! peep !" rang in my
ears for an hour after, and gave me the heartache.
At length I bethought me of overhauling some of the
boxes that encumbered my dominions,-it would be em-
ployment if nothing more ; and dragging one out to front the
window,:I set to work. The amount of will in my finger-
ends supplied the place of strength; and as the fastenings
were also wanting in that last particular, the box-not
exactly flew open-but was with some hard work forced to
reveal its contents. They were numerous-odds and ends
of all sorts; but among them I did find one little volume-a
prayer-book. It may be questioned whether prayer-book
was ever so devoured. Not the service part-I cared little
for that-but the hymns,-they gave me something to do ;
and many a one I learned in those solitary days in-the.gar. P
ret. This held me some time, and then I had another search
which produced Mrs. Sherwood's " Roxobel." TIye intensity
of delight and appreciation with which I read it cannot be'
told.
.I was poring over my little red volume one morning,

when I heard 'my name called. Down stairs I went, even
to the kitchen, and there stood Mrs. Howard holding in her
arms a little grey and white kitten. I should despair of
making anybody who had never felt the like, understand how
glad I was. My frock was immediately outstretched to re-
ceive her, and I carried off my new companion with a charge
from Mrs. Howard "not to spoil the cat." To which I
replied,
"Ah but she has just come
And with this universal reason fpr spoiling-whether
cats or children-I was 'quite satisfied, and petted my kitty
to her heart's content and mine. I was alone no longer;
and to do the little thing justice, she seemed to think almost
as much of my playmate qualifications as I thought of hers.
I might have quoted Montaigne. "Who knows whether
puss is not more amused with me than I am with puss ?"-
It was my delight to run dancing towards her, and then. to
see the raised back and sidelong jump as with outstretched
paws she darted to catch my foot. A couple of kittens,
kind reader ! I fear you think them scarce worth writing
about: yet many a time did Mr. and Mrs. Howard stand
with pleased eyes and relaxed muscles to watch our gambols
on the gravel-walk which was now laid in front of the house.
We were taking a walk one day-I and my little cat;
and puss was quietly. sleeping in my arms, except when
some misstep of mine giving her a slight jar she would purr
a sleepy little acknowledgement; and wandering,  I came
at last to the western boundary of our premises,-i1his.
direction not very far from the house. The fence did iit
divide us from the turnpike, but from the grounds of our
next neighbour, Mr. Collingwood. Formerly he had owned
our glen, and then a farm road had come through without
interruption,-now, where I stood, a barplace cut it in two,
and on either hand stretched away the young thorn hedge
and its guardian fence. I stood a long time looking over.
The road went naturally on, though now the tracks were
almost overgrown, and a4 a little distance from me took a
short turn to the right behind the woods. Woods hemmed
it i, n the left also; but jnst beyond the turn there was an
ope      rough which I could see a field of spring grain, then
mor       s, and further still and to the left-as the ground

L1'       fa
V     F. Y        w
3  f
ARr
"r
i
r rr
n'r
.i
r1 r
lY
S F '

W44

80

DOLLARS ' AND' CENTS.

31

it; 4'

ix


-.

DOLLARS AND CENT.

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

sunk towards the lake-a gleam of its bright waters. The
spring air brought almost as sweet ideas as. odours.; and
two phoebe birds were telling each other just what [-felt.
I had a longing desire to pass on, and to sit in the shade
of a beautiful cedar that was drooping over the road. I tried
the bars-they were fast, or too heavy for me to move. No
matter; I could climb well enough; so putting down my
sleepy qat that she might run under I went over, took up
puss and sat down beneath the cedar tree. I know not how
lng I had been there, but I was lost in the attempt to
find out how phoebe No. 1 could understand phoebe fNo. 2,
when I heard a loud impatient bark; and as a great dog
dashed out of the woods, kitty sprang from my arms with a
farewell scratch, and up into the tree.
Here was a situation!
I was somewhat afraid of the dog, and still more for the
gat ; so backing up against the tree I alternated between
"poor kitty !" and "go away sir !"-while the dog threw his
head back, and barked at the limb of the tree with his whole
heart.
Then in a moment a voice, had called the dog off and
ordered him home, and the owner of the voice had walked
up to me.
I believe I looked at him as if he might have been a party
to the onset, but a pleasant smile reassured me ; and I
pointed out the only visible white paw of my little com-
patnion where she lay hid, far out of'my reach, and asked if
hewould not keep the dog away till my kitten came down.
The danger had frightened me out ony usual shyness.
"The dog will not come back," said the gentleman; and'
reaching up his hand he disengaged the cat-after some
efforts and though she spit at him vigorously-and deposited
her in my apron.
"I am very sorry my dog has frightened you," he said-.
"does this little cat belong to Miss Howard "
"No sir."
" No ?"
"NIt belongs to me sir."
"But me is very indefinite," said the gentleman smiling.
;I thought you must be one of the young ladies f  Gl 1en

., t,
4Yf/
c   --s 't .
/ h  ,
i \  
'
R  r
.
1         f^it?
f .
.   '
,a _F =
" =5'
:
..
L   ~
..,      ;

"Yes sir, I do live there-at least I am going to ;-but I
am not Miss Howard, I am only Grace."
"And why not Miss Howard ?"
"Because my sister is not married yet."
The gentleman laughed, and then as we walked along to
the bar-place he said,
" I hope this little feline of yours will not be the worse for
her fright."
"No sir, but-that isn't her name."
"Are you quite sureA?"
"Yes sir,-at least never gave it to her. Do you think
it is a pretty one ?"
He laughed again.-
"I see I must call things by their right names," he said.
"Well, when you know latin you may call your cat felina,
-at present I would recommend Muff or Tippet.; and now
shall I put you both over the fence together ?-or stay, I can
let down these bars."
His strength readily accomplished this, and with a very
pleasant farewell we parted.
"I am very much obliged to you, sir !" I said, turning
round again with the little cat in my arms just as the last bar
was replaced.
The gentleman rested both hands on the topmost one, and
smilingly inquired,
"For what 2"
"For getting kitty down from the tree."
"That was rather an act of justice to kitty than of favour
to you, Miss Grace. I was bound to repair the mischief I
had occasioned."
"But it was the dog's mischief."
" I am afraid the dog's mischief will always be visited
upon me-he is not a responsible person."
" Well I thank you very much sir,-and for letting down
the bars for me, too."

82

3

:4
-r
1tt 71
r
.j
y


DOLLARS AND CENTS.
CHAPTER V.
Be that will have a cake out of the wheat, must needs tarry the grinding.
SLIAKSPEARE-.
'"rDO wish I could do something to-morrow," said I.
S" Do something to-morrow !" said my uncle Ned.
"And what ails to-morrow that it should have something
done on it, of all days in the year ?"
"Because papa is going to Kellerton to-day, and Kate and
Stephanie will come home with him to-morrow ;--and I do
so want to make a fuss.".
"There will be fuss enough, I'll warrant you," said my
father. . If you would prepare an anodyne to be admuiis-
red as soon as they get here, there'd be some sense in it,
"There wouldn't be-much fun, papa,-and I haven't-seen
Kate in so long-and one can't have bonfires by daylight."
"Why don't you put up a flag ?" said my stepmother.
A flag !-so Imight ! that would be the very thing.
But then I don't know. where to put it-and papa will be
away."--~
"And I will come and do it for you," said my uncle.
"Will you really ? 0 I should be so very glad. But
where shall we put 'it ? and where can' I get a flag ?-.-OI
know !---those red curtains would be splendid !",
'"No indeed," said my uncle,--"I have no notion of hoist.
in Captain Kidd's.colours at Glen Luna.".
"And besides," said Mrs. Howard, "the red curtains are
Apo heavy to fly well, and much too good to be let fly at all.
But there are some white muslin curtains, Grace, that you
may sew together if you like."'
" Well---thank you mamma-.-only I'm afraid they won't
shew much."

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

p*

"Couldn't anything shew better," said Mr. Ned. "You
sew them up, and we will raise the flag on that high bluff
that looks down the Honiton turnpike,--the white muslin
will make a great appearance against the green woods."
"And then papa," I said anxiously, "you will be sure not
to forget to make them look for it ?"
"Suppose they are riding backwards ?" said my father.
"Now papa !-you know they won't be--you mustn't
let them. I should be so disappointed if they didn't see my
flag after all."
"That shall not be, dear, if I can help it," he answered,
with a smile,-"if they can't see out of the window I'll put'*
them on the'roof, and if they are. asleep I'll wake them up;
--so make your little heart easy."
The white curtains were upon my mind when I awoke
next morning-indeed I might say that everything else in
my mind was curiously wrapped up in them; so that I could
hardly get at an idea of any sort, except through the medium
.of their white folds.
It was the fourth of June,-early summer in reality,
while in effect it was yet spring ; for the season had been
very late; but now it was pushing its way with a verylovely
and quiet working. The bright sheen of the late ram was upon
everything ; the trees in a perfect hurry to get their leaves.
out,-it seemed as if they had grown inches since yesterday, 
and our plan could not have had finer weather.
. With needle and thread we transformed two curtains into
one big flag, fastened it to the top of a pole, and then Mr.
Ned and I set off for the Brown bluff with an Irish boy for
standard-bearer. There was no regular path-or we missed
it--and many a delusive opening in the woods, many a
promising little hill, lured us on to new disappointments. If
my will had not, been stronger than my feet I should hardly
have reached the bluff at all; but once there, the rest was
easy. We chose the most promising tree, and then Andy.
squirrelized to the top, and receiving the pole from my uncle
lashed it to the upper branches,--with so many knots aid
twistings that the future unfastening thereof seemedgrob-
lematical.
. And away went the white folds of our flag of truce
hanging lazily for a moment among the pine. boughs, ~u

? T
yctt
yeti:
fi
y
S
4.
1
%


DOLLARS AND 7E1     .S
then rousing themselves and stretching off upon the sweetest
possible north wind. If we had foreseen what was before us,
we could have shewn no more appropriate colours on our
first settling at Glen Luna.
We watched the flag for a little, speculating upon the
probable distance to which it could be seen, and theiarned
homeward. The moccasin flowers were fully out now, and
In beautiful variety. Some very tall and of the most delicate
pink, while in others the rich depth of colour seemed to
compensate for a lower growth. My hand was never ruth.
less in the matter of picking, but I could hardly pass by such
beauties; and with some late anemonies, an early wild lily,
and eorydalis flowers, I soon had enough to dress a vase
to put in Kate's room.
flowweary I was then!-with having done so much and
with having no more to do. Weary of waiting for the stage.-
horn which I thought would never blow ; and then fluttered
and excited when I heard the feint sound in the distance, and
stood watching for the first glimpse of the carriage. We
had an April meeting, all round ; but the rest of the day was
clear sunshine. I remember that we found the first ripe
s4r'berry and the first wild violet that afternoon: that we
told      thing and showed everything, and yet could not
Stisfed with telling and showing ;--that we settled down
being very quiet and happy, despite bare floors and
sion. Kate had seen the flag miles away, and had re-
all the messages that I sent my absent sister through
white folds.
"And how do you like the looks of things, Katie ?" said
my father 'next morning at breakfast.
4"The place is lovely, papa."
"And what isn't lovely ?"
"Why nothing, I suppose," said Kate rather dubio sl..
onlyI was thinking of what Mrs. Osborne said, 'that no
body lived here.'n
"Mrs. Osborne said that, did she ?  Well, if I am as wise
for a man as she is for a woman, I make no  ubt we shall
get through the world comfortably."
" sriously Mr. Howard," said Stephanie, "are we to
in the way of neighbours?"
plenty of themx in our way, I'm afraid," said

. Y

f' t+     y.t
P
1S 71  Iy;'
I
q 11
I
4     n=3r ;  ,
f rH
t wit 1t
fl

DOLLARS AN1D CENT              7

my father,--" if the earth fails us we'll fall back upon the
Moon."
"Unclk Ned does not think very much of his neighbours,"
said Kate;"and who are ours, papa? what do you mean by
'plenty'1?"
"Plenty, my dear, is defined by Johnson to be 'such a
quantity as is more than enough'."
"But what do you call enough neighbours ?" said Ste.
phanie.
" Depends entirely on the kind"-replied Mr. Howard.
" If the kind were Mrs. Osborne I should call herself
'plenty.
" Ah papa! you are too bad. Who is there here that we
shall be apt to see"
"Why there's your old friend Mrs. De Camp, and our
new friend Miss Caffery, and there is Mr. Collingwood'a
family."
" Mr. Collingwood is only a farmer," said Kate.
"And if he were a fair type. of the class, it would be well
if all the world were 'only farmers'.- I am thankful Os-
bornes don't grow in the country !-Then my dear when I
get my stone cottages built, you know we can sell them to
whom we please; and for the present we are at least in a
wholesome atmosphere."
"Stone cottages !" cried Mrs. Howard.
"Why yes," said my father.-" Ned thinks and so doI
that there is more land here than I want myself; and I talk
of putting up a few cottages to sell or let"
"Aid how much would it cost?"
"0 I don't know exactly-not much,-there's abundance
of fine stone on the spot,-they would pay for themselves in
no time."
"I don't believe it," said Mrs. Howard,-" you'll just lay
the foundations with dollars and there it will end-unless
you are ruined by the means."
"Poh !-I tell you they couldn't help paying for them-
selves, and I shall set men to getting out stone at once.
Ruined, indeed! And by the way I mean to take soa;
specimens of the stone over to-what's the name of I
place ?-where they are to build this colleg&amp;Eh
don't doubt the trustees will buy of me, for I neversa

i7

.j
"L
E
i J
.  'J

+,
w
i

1)


8            ' DOLLARS AND CENTS.

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

finer. I will go now and get some pieces of it before I for..
get."-
For a little while after his departure my stepmother sat
eyeing her coffee cup with a somewhat . sad expression of
face; but then rousing herself she remarked that whatever
else was done we might as well get in order. And for
many days that was the word. Busily we all worked at
jobs too nice and delicate for hired hands,-books could be
dusted and aranged by none but our own ; and if Mr.
Howard's head had not been full of granite and cottages, he
would hardly have trusted even us to unpack his precious
shells and minerals. -But for the time the new hobby sup-
planted the old. What. he was about we could not always
tell,-there was great talk of mills and mill-dams, roads and
plantations; and Mr. Ned Howard and my father would
come bustling in, and desire a dusted table in all haste,-to
be as quickly covered with maps and plans. New ones,
just finished apparently,-coloured and uncoloured, litho..
graph, pen and ink, and pencil. Here a road going smoothly
through impassable places,-and there an imposing row of
stone cottages about which a fie young. forest had suddenly
sprung up-but that might have been the. lithographer's
fancy, Then the scene changed to wheels and timbers and
foaming torrents,-a half-finished mill-dam, with a cart and.
horse comfortably carrying out gravel;-and at the bottom
a long string of units and tens and hieroglyphics-" wheels
-say so much," and "mill-stones--say so much."
"If you were anybody else I should laugh at you," said
Mrs. Howard one day when she had been listening and
looking *i. "As it is it comes too near home, and is too
serious work."
"A great deal too serious!" said my uncle looking up
with a very excited face. "The thing to laugh at will be
the profits."
"When I see them."-
"I don't believe you would look at them if they were
here," said my father, whose hobby did not like a check.
".And if I am to laugh at the profits," said my stepmother
gently, and laying her hand on his shoulder, "what shall I
do when I see the loss ?"
" Laugh at that too"-said Mr. Howard, but with a change

of tone that said hers was not unfelt. " Pshaw my dear,"
he added looking up at the eyes that'were brighter than he
liked to see them, and with no touch of impatience now in
voice or manner,-" you don't know anything about the
matter-won't that content you ?"
" It would ifI could think so."
"Well think so," he said smiling and taking her hand,-
"have you so little trust in my sense as to suppose that I
shall take a flying leap off a precipice ?"
"ButaI did hear of a man once," said my stepmother with
an answering smile, "who being upon a wild horse could
not dismount, and had to go whither the horse carried him."
A momentary expression of doubt which I had once or
twice seen before, crossed my father's face :-then shaking
it off he said laughingly,
"Never fear-I will make sure that the horse is a tame
one."-
oAnd seeing that more words would be useless, my step-
mother as usual spoke them not.

cry'
-1011,
F t yb,  ,Q
K  e.tia. z r -
r.
1, }it
""Al
i

11;Z

.,, , , ,


AG          DOLLARS AND CAYTS.

CHAPTER VI.
A sweet attractive kind of grace:
A full assurance given by looks;
Continual comfort in a face,
The lineaments of Gospel books-
I trow that couut'nance cannot lye,
Whose thoughts are legible in the eye.
SYDNEY.
W E were happily resting from our long turmoil,-enjoy~
ing the, sweet quiet order of. everything in and about
our new house; and the summer's luxuriance came wafted
through the open windows, and Kate was trying her harp-
strings, but softly as if half unwilling to lose the merry choir
without.
"If ye plase ma'am," said one of our subordinates open-
ing the door after an admonitory tap, "Miss Caff'ry says,
when would ye be settled till ye'd come and drink ta with
her?"
" Has Miss Caffery sent up here, Caddie ?"
She did ma'am."
" To ask if we were settled ?"
"Well I don't just know, Mrs. Howard-it's wanting ye
she is-at ta."
"And when does she want us to come?"
"Meself doesn't know, ma'am-if it wouldn't be the day."
"Who brought the message, Caddie ?"'said I.
"He's a fine-looking lump of a boy, Miss Grace-with a
face as big as me two hands,-I don't know his name, nor
he didn't say."
"Tell him to come upstairs," said 'Mrs. Howard.
"That's what I did ma'am, and I couldn't get him into the
house itself."

"And he didn't say when Miss Caffery wants us ?" said
Kate.
"Never a word Miss, only he said; 'it's a fine day,' says
he,"
"I suppose we must put that and that together," said
Mrs. Howard laughing. "Caddie you may tell him-no I
will write it."
"And are .you going to-night mamma?" said Kate when
the note was despatched.
"Yes, that seems to have been the request."
"If ye plase ma'am," said Caddie returning, "he says all
the young ladies and Mrs. Howard and the master,-and
would you be plased to come at four o'clock, he says
ma'am:'
"We will be very punctual."
"Well I am glad!" said I-" I do want to see some more
of Miss Caffery,-she is so very comical."
"I wonder if there will be any one else there,".said Kate.
"I shall be there," said Stephanie, "and will make you
laugh with everybody and at everybody too, if you choose."
" I shall not choose-therefore give all your attention to
your own risible muscles."
What a fair; bright walk we had ! For a while there were
meadows and grain fields on either hand,-then two dark
points of forest ran down to the very edge of the road,-
then again came fields and distant woods with here and there
a house. One stood at the top of a high slope which came
gently down towards us, but at some little distance. The
turf was beautifully short and green, and the forest trees had
been judiciously out and spared ; the remaining ones, which
stood generally alone, had a fine roundness of form and lux-
uriance of-foliage of which their very shadows seemed to
speak. These spots of sober light set off the sunshine per-
fectly. Then we passed a house at the very road-side,-
brown, unpainted, but having in its window a box of the
most beautiful ' painted ladies" I ever saw. Then came a
little spring running swiftly under the stone wall by the
way of a latticed opening,-which lattice served the pur-
pose of a barrier to pigs and geese-they might not run
with the stream. And then we approached the place of our

q

A'DLI&amp;ARS AND CENTS.              41

.;
, ,
,_   r  . .


42   DO       .DOLLARS AND cENTS.

" Caffre-land," as Stephanie called it, was on a private
branch of the high road, which forking off towards the lake
ran along its shore for some distance, and then turned up to
the house. There was neither fence nor wall,-the little
cottage stood peacefully in the midst of its green lawn as if
marauders were never thought of; and certainly all looked
as if they never came.
The architecture was in no one style unless that of conve-
nience and comfort; though so far as the steep roof, pro-
jecting rafters, and gable ends could make it, it was rather
Dutch. The windows were of every sort and situation that
a particular view or a particular breeze seemed to make
desirable. The front of the house had but one below stairs
--a large bay; over and about which a beautiful maurandia
hung its purple-blue flowers and -abundant foliage. Above
this a long oval lookout, of which the sash was slid back into
the wall, let one see the waving white drapery beyond; and
higher still, a sharp gable reared itself from the roof, which
then sloped down until it overhung the bay's side compan-
ion,-the little brown front door.
The house went by the name of 'the Bird's Nest;'
though not at all wanting in size and accommodation, yet
something in its lichened grey stone and the substantial
compactness of its appearance-shadowed as it was by an
immense weeping elm on the other side of the road-made
the name seem not unsuitable.
The elm had been trimmed up to a great height, and
through its drooping branches the long sunbeams came from
the western horizon to the pretty bay window, unchecked
in winter; but now softened by the leafy covert through
which they passed. And from among the foliage there shot
now and then a gleam like fire, as two Baltimore birds or
orioles, darted about their nest which swayed gently to and
fro on one of the long weeping branches.
All this we took in ere we reached the door. It is opened
to us, and we have entered the hall which runs straight
through to the back of the house. It is narrow, and the
rafters stand out in full relief; but at the side is a large
Venetian window, of which the broad centre compartment
opens like a door upon the flower garden. And here come
in the south breezes-freighted with all the bouquets that

,.   ^ a R
six
fA
t O9IN
01, al
# tV y4
w,.
r}Me4  !
i
t

DOLLARS AND CENTS.                43
ever perfumer tried to imitate. I said there was no fence,
but this garden was hedged with the Cherokee, rose,-then
covered with multitudes of its large buff-centred white flow-
ers. We were in danger of forgetting that we had come to
see anything else ; but Miss Caffery did not wait long before
she came behind us with,
-" Yes ma'am, it is very pretty, but you must all be so
tired,-do come and sit down. My dear Miss Grace, I am
so glad to see you! yes, very glad.  And these other,
young ladies-they are most welcome,--yes ma'am, they
are indeed. But my dear Mrs. Howard do come into the
parlour."
The same pink handkerchief, the same spotless dress, only
of finer muslin this time, and the handkerchief had a shade
more pink and a half-inch more fringe. But I liked the
wearer's looks much better upon a second view. Miss
Caffery was not young, but she had taken Time so -pleas-
antly that Time had returned the compliment. Her hair-
still unchanged-was of so soft a colour, so neatly parted;
her whole voice and action were so gentle and truthful;
that one would at a venture have joined her in saying "yes
ma'am" to everything she uttered. Perfect repose as her
eye was, it wasriot the repose of shallow water; and her
mouth was eminently sympathetic.
Very different was her cousin, Miss Avarintha Bain. Tall,
dark, with hair so black that one wondered where the colour
came from; some mental fever shining out through every
feature,-more display in her dress and more manner m
her mannerism, Miss Bain acted the au fait in everything ;
and the perfect delusion which she put upon herself in this
respect, made her to be sure, good-humoured and satisfied.
There were other visiters already in the room; so when
the first little bustle was over, I, the only child there, had
time to look about me. Except Miss Caffery and my own.
family there was 'very little to detain my eye among the
animated objects, and it presently wandered to the irani-
niate,-they were more satisfactory. A bookcase on one
side, a like case of varieties on the other, flanked the chim-
ney and completely filled up the recesses; while amn the
fireplace itself little brass musketeers mounted guard as
andirons. All the wood of the room-cases, furniture, and


44           DOLLARS AND EN2S.

wainscotting-was very dark; and the high range of the
latter contrasted well with the hard finish above. On this
hung one or two old portraits-telling amid all their silence
that the hopes and fears of the present generation are no
brighter, no darker, than those of a century ago,-which
have passed without leaving a trace except upon some such
bit of canvass. It is a hard thing to realize, that just such a
face appeared in "this working-day world," when that world
was two hundred years younger than it is now !-.It is like
seeing that mysterious sort of shadow where the substance
- is out of sight. But the child's eye and mind soon left the
stately lady for something with which they had moreg*m-
pathy.
Instead of a table in the middle of the floor, there  tecd a
pyramid of basket-work,-dark like the other artielcW  a
rising tier above tier from a broad base to a little ie
the top, where was a cluster of roses,-crimson,99 whe
blush. Mignionette and ivy, honeysuckle, miltifloras aid
alyssum, looked over the side of each tier upon a bed f
heliotrope, geranium, yellow roses, and all thevariety of
spray flowers and buds that make such beautiful flagree.-
work about those that are larger and more showy.
Opposite the bay a glass door looked into the tea-room -
and thither my eyes had just gone-caught by a -bright.
gleam of silver-when Miss Caffery left her older guests
and called me to come and sit by hero nthe window. And
for a while she talks and I listen,-pleased to hear the gentle
voice, even when it tells me a bird or flower story that I
knew before. And then we both listen, for. a horse's hoofs
are coming up the road very fast. They come nearer and
nearer, even to the very window where we are sitting, and
then I see that the rider is my friend of the bar-place. He
bowed to Miss Caffery, then smilingly recognized me, and
then, still hat in hand, said,
"Have you anything for the post-office, Miss Easy ?"
"Not to-day, Mr. Collingwood. But you are not going
to the post-office ? you must stay with us sir, you must
indeed. We want you very much, yes."
"Thank you Miss Easy, but",-,.
"0O don't give us any buts or ifs," said Miss Avarintha
coming up: ".I daresay you're very busy--you always arey,

but ' when a lady's in the ease' you know, and there are half
a dozen in this."
" I am afraid ' Ladies first and business afterwards' wcoud
not be a very good rule for me," said Mr. Collingwood
smiling.
"0 Mr. Rodney! for shame !-and these such young
ladies and you such a young gentleman! Why you deserve
to be posted up. Here is Miss Howard and Miss Holbrook
and Miss Suydam, and you are leaving the field all to
Captain De Camp."
Mr. Collingwood sat contemplating his horse's head so
quietly,that except for some slight play of the lines of his
face I should hardly have thought his hearing very good ;
and then looking up with a smile as pleasant as peculiar, he
said,
Well, Miss Avarintha, I am just such a young gentle..
man-very busy, very odd I suppose; but what will you do
with me ?-i must go to the post-office, and then across the
country to Squire Brown's for my father, and then home to
write."
"Now Mr. Rodney," said Miss Easy earnestly, "that is
the very thing ;-yes sir, you oughtn't to write a bit more,
not a bit. You're as pale as your paper, yes."
" My ride ought to have cured that, Miss Easy."
" It hasn't"-she said, with an answering but not assenting
smile. "Now be kind-hearted-and go to the post-office
and Squire Brown's, and then come back here and mend my
knitting needle and drink coffee and tell me all about your
dear father. I tried to get to see him to-day, but the sun
was so hot I couldn't-and I knew you'd be here or I should
have sent for you, yes,-and what Mr. Carvill said in his last
letter. It will do you more good than writing."
Mr. Collingwood bowed with one grateful appreciating
glance, and saying "If I can, dear Miss Easy," he rode off.
Miss Easy looked after him with an unusual shade on
her placid face, but Miss Avarintha walked away ; and then
up came my stepmother.
"Dear Miss Caffery," she said, "I fear Grace is keeping
you here,-do let her amuse herself."
"0O yes," said Miss Easy, ' but I like to talk to her-yes
m'am, very much."

.DOLLARS AND CENT'S.

_
-           "   y
t Y
_
}"     'Q.  ' M.
.,  r   f' ,,,,  '


46            DOLLARS AND CET' S.

DOLLARS AND CENTS.            47

"But the wind comes in so fresh-and your face
"My face ?-0 yes ma'am," said Miss Caffery smiling
most good-naturedly, ""to be sure ! you thought I had the
faceache, yes. But I always wear this handkerchief ma'am
--I do indeed."
1O I beg your pardon-!" said Mrs. Howard, quite shocked
at her mistake.
"No ma'am, pray don't. You see," continued Miss Easy,
so much interested in her story that she forgot the accus-
tomed refrain; "you see when Avarintha first came to live
with me I never could arrange my back hair as she liked-
because I wasn't a spider, with eyes at the back of my head
-as I told her, ma'am; and every day she would say to me,
'O Easy ! your hair does look so !'-and at last. she said
that if she were in my place she would wear a nightcap or a
handkerchief, rather than let people see such a twist on her
head. So I told her I wouldn't wear a nightcap, for I didn't
tlink nightcaps were becoming; but I would wear a hand-
kerchief and welcome,-and I always have, ma'am, ever
"I am sure you were very obliging."
SOno ma'am-not at all. Indeed, yes," said Miss Easy,
"it was as much for my comfort as hers, yes ma'am; for
I was as tired of the back of my head as she was."
When Mr. Collingwood came back Miss Easy was in the
glittering and aromatic region of the tea-table ; but Miss
Avarintha pounced upon him at once, passed her arm through
his, and walked .him round a circle of introductions and
greeting. Even I could not but notice the well-bred quiet-
ness with which he met all her showing-off attempts-they.
seemed to disturb nothing but the corners:of his mouth;
and when the circuit was made he walked into the tea-room',
and receiving his cup of coffee from Miss Easy stood talking
to her for some time.
" Mr. Rodney," said Miss Bain the moment he returned,
and pointing out a place somewhat antagonistic.to Captain'
De Camp who was talking to Kate. "Mr. Rodney, there
is an unoccupied chair."
" But here is an unoccupied lady," said Mr. Rodney as he
crossed the room and seated himself by poor little me ;

"and a lady in a dream I should judge. Miss Grace, is it
allowable to wake you up ?"
" Me ! 0 I was not asleep, sir."
"May I inquire then upon what profound subject your
waking thoughts were employed?"
"I am afraid you would think me very rude, or imperti-
nents."
No, I will promise not beforehand."
" Ah but you don't know, sir-I am sure you would say
I had better have been thinking of something else."
"Possibly," he said, with a smile,--" but if that be the
case you may as well let me give you an opinion, and then
you will know for next time."
He had a frank way that was very catching.
"I was thinking sir, I was wondering who you could be."
What a merry laugh greeted this speech!
" Upon my word," he said, "I don't wonder you looked
abstracted ! And you would like to be helped out of the
difficulty ? But I should think you might have heard my
name half a dozen times at the window a while ago,-you
seemed wide awake enough then."
"1Yes sir, I thought I did hear it ; but then they seemed
to call you something-else, and that puzzled me."
"They did call me something else ; but you see I take the
benefit of both my names-not having your conscientious
scruples on the score of cadetship,-I am Rodney Colling-
wood. And now to change the subject, or rather the appli-
cation, suppose you tell me your little cat's name-that I
may make no mistake in future."
I hesitated.
"Hasn't she got one yet ?"
"Yes sir, but-I didn't call her what you advised me to,
Mr. Collingwood."
"Never mind that-I do not expect to have my advice
followed in most cases,-only tell me what you did' call
her."
" Why sir, Kate brought a little white cat from Kellerton,
and it cried all the time for a day or two, and Kate declared
she would call it 'Mew'; and then I said if she didi would
call mine 'Purrer-purrer'."

w"

y   f4' f


a8

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"Why at that rate," said Mr. Collingwood laughing, "I
should have called Wolfgang 'Bow-wow' or 'Barky-barky'."
--And how we both laughed then!
"Is his name Wolfgang ?" I said.
"Yes,-don't you think he's a fine fellow ?"
"O very !-but Mr. Collingwood-.-"
"Well?"
"Why don't you teach him not to kill cats ?"
"He has been taught--he never does kill them. But,"
continued Mr. Collingwood with a smile, "little Purrer-
purrer did not know .that--there was the whole difficulty.
If she had staid in your lap Wolfgang would not have looked
at her; but a dog will almost always chase any animal that
runs from him."
" Then it was well I didn't run too."
"I did not mean to include you in the animal class,-I
hope Wolfgang would have had so much or so little sense
as to prefer the cat."
"The cat is very nice sir, indeed."
"No doubt of it !" he said with a grave look of amuse-
meint, "Does she ride out every day in the little carriage
your arms make for her ?"
"It isn't quite fair for everybody to laugh at me about
the cat," I said, but laughing myself. "I haven't taken her
out in a great while,-indeed-"
"Indeed you were afraid of another fright ?"
"Yes sir, a little. But that hasn't been all the rason,
Mr. Collingwood,-since Kate came home I have had her to
think of-and you know I would rather hold her hand than
the cat."
"How should I know that ?"
" O to be sure"-I said ;--" but you would if you knew
her-I forgot that you didn't, sir."
"My remark referred only to you-not at all to your
sister. But tell me Miss Gracie, have you so far forgiven
Wolfgang that you will let me bring him to see you some
day ?"
"O yes sir ! I wish you would! we should be so glad.-
You know you can come through the bar-place, and then it
will not give you a long walk."

DOLLARS AND CENTS.
He smiled at this; but then Miss Avarintha came up,
saying,
" Mr. Collingwood, you do look so entertaining and agree-
able that you must absolutely come and talk to me."
And she kept him in the bay-window until we came
away.

.4,

:              ;
C     2,:r ,
+''
/          .tr;.
1 f I
ae


).OLLARA9'-A,1M CamT

CHAPTER VII.
A man first builds a country seat,
Then finds the walls not good to eat.
PRIOR.

FINE hay weather,isn't it ?" said my father, as he looked
away from his saucer of raspberries to the beautiful
summer light that was upon everything out of doors.. "I
must be off to the oak-meadow directly."
o-      You, papa ?" said Kate.
I, my dear-I must go over and set those men to work.
Ezra Barrington to be sure is a good mower, but the rest
will be as like to cut themselves as the grassinless I show
them how."
Why don't you let Ezra do it ?"
" He won't mow much himself if he has to teach half a
dozen others."
"Never mind if he does not," said my stepmother,-
you are not used to the sun and will just tire yourself out."
"No, I'll stop short of that," said Mr. Howard, eating the
last spoonful of cool cream and fruit with complete satisfac-
tion.
"But papa," said Kate, "do you think it will have a good
effect on the men?"
"Think what will have a good effect ?-their cutting the
grass instead of themselves?"
"No, no,--but your working with them."
"Yes, a very good effect, for they'll have to do some.-
thing."
"They won't respect you so much-you needn't think it,"
said Kate gravely..
"Pshaw !"-said my father,-" well, I shall respect my.-
-self a great deal more than if I let those six men do nothing

.
.      *'

:A1,2

q^
7
se '
7
v
f
,Aa

i

)POZLaAIMAY)camS               5
allday, so that's settled. And now to put myself in *6rk-
lng trim."
"I do wish papa wouldn't I" said Kate the moment he was
out of the room. "Can't you persuade him, manna ?"
"I shall not try," said Mrs. Howard smiling. " He will.
do himself no harm, Katie."
"Indeed mamma, you are mistaken,-I am sure,'
"By the way," said my father coming in at that moment,
"I wish you would send over some luncheon about eleven
o'clock, and a pail of buttermilk or something of the sort,--.
the poor fellows will be thirsty."  And he went out before
we had breath to remonstrate.
"Why they should all bring their own luncheon !" ex
claimed my stepmother,-they are only day-labourers."
"And I am sure there are springs enough in the neigh4
bourhood," remarked Stephanie rather scornfully.
Mr. Howard opened the door again, and putting in his
head he added,
"I forgot to tell you my dear, that I must take Andy
over to turn hay ;-but I suppose Caddie can bring the
things."
We looked at each other, and then gave one clap'
shout.
"What is papa thinking of!" exclaimed Kate.
"I am sure I don't know," said Mrs. Howard, "but its
Ipetty clear what I must be thinking of ;"-and she bean
to roll up her sleeves.
"iWhat are you going to do, mamma 2"
" Make some cake for those men."
" No indeed you must not," said Kate earnestly. "Just
let it alone and they will know better next time."
"Your father would not like that, Katie."
"Well I'd give them bread then-I wouldn't give they
one morsel of cake. Now mamma--only look at yourilittle
arms and hands, and then think if they ought to make lunch
for mowers."
"It won't hurt them any more than 'making lunch' for
other people, I imagine," said Mrs.  toward laughing; "and
as to bread, Katie, we have but just enough in the house for
our own dinner. No, I must make some gingerbread, and
then we must go and carry it to the oak-meadow."

!tk
"ht
.s
r"'t V v ""r
u   t..y     "
lot
Y
"v1 3,{4
a 6


DOLLARS AND cETS.

"Carry it !-why mamma you are absolutely crazy.
Carry a basket of cake and a pail of buttermilk for those.
men to eat !"
"Well," said Mrs. Howard, "I am quite willing it should
go in any other way, if you will only say how. Rose has a
sick headache."
"1Let Caddie take it, as papa said."
"You know about as much of the matter as he does.
Caddie is washing, and I should have to hang out clothes
during her absence."
"Well I do think it is rather too bad !"
"Now Kate my dear," said Mrs. Howard with a smile,
"you may as well make the best of it. Your father did not
think nor understand- what he .ras doing,-he has been a
citizen too long to turn farmer at once ; but this will not
happen again, and the day is not.so hot that we shall find
the walk disagreeable."
"1Stephanie and I will go with the basket," I said,-" she
is old enough to escort me, and it would be clear fun."
"1Very poor fun indeed," said Stephanie. "Why the sun
will make our hands as black as a coal-to say nothing of
the pail's dragging down our fingers."
"O well," said I laughing, "but I can't go alone you
know; so you may carry a piece of gingerbread, and I will
Oang the pail on one arm and the basket on the other."
"No, we will all go," said Mrs. Howard,-" I cannot let
you go so far without me. I will make the gingerbread at
once ; and if you Stephanie will sew up the fingers of those
gloves the I saw lying about this morning, I think they will
protect your fmgers sufficiently."
"-Don't put any carraway in your cake ma'am," replied
Miss Holbrook, "because it might be mistaken for hay
seeds."
" Carraway in gingerbread! you foolish child."
"My dear Mrs. Howard, I assure you that combination
is not unheard of. You are not quite read up in your
cookery book, ma'am."
"I must grant that," said Mrs. Howard smiling.
"But mamma," said Kate, "in the abstract you know-
don't you think it is very bad policy for ladies to do such
things ?"

"In the abstract Katie, I think books are pleasanter corn
panions than flour-pails and boxes of sugar; but I have a
poor opinion of the lady who is not woman enough to do
anything that comes in the way of her duty. The less of
such delicacy of hand we have, the better; and you must
not grow up to practise it."
" You'll, never practise anything else"-said Stephanie
when we were left alone,-her own disapprobation having
faded before the amusement of seeing Kate's. " Miss
Howard-how will you dress yourself for the hayfield ?"
" In my sunbonnet."-
C"But my dear you might be mistaken for a farmer's
daughter. Do at least take a fan-and a bottle of smell-
ing salts."
"I doubt the hay is sweeter."
"But more trying to delicate nerves-when combined
with baize jackets. Think of your being obliged to behold
those, articles, after all !"
"Stephanie,". said Kate, "you ought not to try to aggra-
vate my notions till you are sure they are wise and right,-
or until I am."
"I am wondering," said Stephanie, "what name you will
bear in this region. Mr. Howard's chief support in the farm-
ing line has given me the pleasing title of 'Miss Ste Fanny'
-I am curious as to the probable cognomen of Miss Howard
a few years hence,-in most circles of society one might
guess-but here-"
"I hope Miss Howard will always be herself," said Kate
composedly.
"In other words, that she will always be Miss Howard ?"
. "She might easily be a better thing," Kate said, so
gravely that Miss Holbrook took up her gloves and was
silent...
The sun looked hotter than it felt; and we who walked
quietly'through the thorn-hedged lane, had often a cooling
wind and shade. But when we reached the oak-meadow we
found a most glowing atmosphere, and all the mowers in
their shirt-sleeves. Sometimes these were partly rolled up,
disclosing the red flannel undersleeve ; and coats and jackets
hung from the trees or lay scattered about on the swath.
2Even Mr. Howard had adopted the prevailing fashion, (to.

"y   "     ,      e 7   ,

52

53,

DOLLARS A11 cZVT&amp;.

."' ,
;, -
~  _,i.
"'~ -'
t.
"5  .
f,   ,°-
r;
;;
' M
;t

a     r
' - 4 4
i


6-             DOLLARS AND -ETS.
the dismay of Kate and Stephanie); and was now watching
the irregular mowing of the Irishmen, which formed a strong
contrast to the long, steady, and even sweeps of Ezra Bar-
rington.
Besides the fresh swath, a part of the meadow was spread
with half-dried hay which Andy was turning; and in one
place it was even gathered into windows. Several rakes
stood upright on their sharp-pointed handles in different
parts of the field ; and its central and naming tree-a great
oak-cast a broad shadow that was ever shortening.
We stood on a little rising ground looking over the fair
scene, and presently my father espied us and sent one of
the mowers for our load.
"We put some ice in the pail," said I, "and now if you
set it in the shade it will keep cool."
"Ya-as," said the man, who had a good-natured, pleasant
face, " vera true,-I'll put it by the big tree there beyont."
"And here is some gingerbread."
" Och it's too much trouble !" said the man. "Indade
thin, Miss, we're intirely thankful t'ye ;-for it's a vera hot
day, surely."
We watched him as he descended the hill,  the others
gather round, and smiled to see the little shake of the head
with which each man finished a cup of the iced-buttermilk-.-
lithe Squire' being first served.
The wind was blowing very softly, just bending the tops
of the uncut grass and stirring the long windows and waving
my short hair. It was hard to regret anything that had
brought us to a scene so lovely ; -'wnd we did not move until
my father joined us.
4"Now papa," said Kate, do you think it is well for a
gentleman to go about with his coat on his arm?"
"Very well,-when he doesn't want it on his back."
"But papa it looks so."-
" Hum"-said Mr. Howard,-"'I don't see why one may
not follow a country fashion as well as a city .fashion-when
one is in the country."
"It ism't 'the fashion-that is just it, papa,-you wouldn't
see any one else do so."
"I beg -your pardon,-if you gg over to Daisy Lea this
morning I1 don't doubt you will find Mr. Collingwood and

DOLLARS AND C   NTS. '           $j
his son making hay in as comfortable gear as I am: To bo
, ,,
sure they are 'only farmers.
"I don't believe you would ever see Captain }e GCip
looking so, Mr. Howard," saidStephanie.
"Captain De Camp's epaulettes are a part of himself,"
said my father a little impatiently, which happily my coat
is not. Come, I don't wait to hear any more of this,-if
my respectability lies so near the surface and is .so-easily
got rid of, I can't hope to keep it long, any way. Neither
Captain De Camp nor any other youngster would hesitate
to pull off his coat if he were going to row you on the lake,-
but a moustache seems to confer as many immunities and
privileges as a seat in.the House of Lords."
"I thought you were so very notional and particular,
papa"-Kate said in a low voice.
"I always shall be, my child-about realities;" he answer-
ed kindly,-" these false landmarks of breeding I take no
note of. I make some distinction of time and place, Katie,-
ifI sat in the drawing-room without a coat, you might juslly
complain of me."
Stephanie shook her head, and Kate walked on with a
grave look that seemed to say she could neither give up her
'own position nor attack my father's.
-"I can't conceive, papa, where you ever learned anything
about mowing !"
"I have learned a great many things when yoi were not
present, Katie," said he smiling.
"ut you never had to do it?"
" Never."
Kate looked better satisfied.
"I don't-believe you know any too much of it now, papa,"
she said with a.laugh,-"I daresayEzra Barrington was not
pleased with your performance."
, My father looked at her for a moment as ifher wordshad
not quite pleased him.; but whether he had same feeling for
the notions that were in such- a fair way to be rubbed oT
or whether he thought Kate might indemnify herself for a
morning's discomfort, he at all events left her remark un-
disputed.
It was destined to be a day of trial. Mr. Ned Howard
had arrived daring ojr absence, and feeling thirty -he had

i.
; ,
-


56            - DozAs AND CENTS.

betaken himself to the dairy-but found neither skim-milk
nor cup,-only the long rows of pans which were creamed
to a most tempting degree. Mr. Ned went down to the
edge of the lake, searched about till he found a long hollow
reed, and then returning to the dairy he proceeded to imbibe
the lactic fluid, in a way which it must be owned, is one of
the very best. Our arrival cut short the performance; and
Mr. Ned, reed in hand, came out of the dairy with a degree
of fun and enjoyment in his face, that might have disarmed
anybody's resentment. Resentment Mrs. Howard did not
feel; but she remonstrated and Kate argued, and Mr. Ned
only laughed the harder.
" Where have you been ?" he said as he caught sight of
my father.
"Tiring myself to death with those mowers.".
"What, in the hill-field ?"
"No-in 'the oak-meadow."
"Why brother I am surprised at you! the grass in the
hill-field is a great deal the ripest,-it is just fit to be laid by
the first high wind."
"Ezra Barrington thought not,-he said- the meadow
would suffer most."
S I'll tell you what," said my uncle looking round with a
stern face, "it's my opinion that Ezra Barrington leads you
all by the nose-yes every soul of you."
It. was our turn to laugh now.
"Well," said my father when he regained his gravity, "if
he leads us in the right direction it don't much matter;" and
then skilfully throwing in some word about improvements,
they both dashed off into granite and mills and cottages,
until-making allowance for the anachronism-one would
have thought the one speaker to be Croesus and the other
Rothschild. Mrs. Howard sighed, and once or twice looked
up as if she would have ventured an opinion; but the mill.
stones and blasted rocks that were flying about might have
deterred more courage than hers.
"Are you looking so grave about me, mamma ?" Kate
said when we went up to dress.. "Are you afraid that I
shall grow up a fine lady?  If I have a great many follies,
you do not think them incurable ?"
*" No dear," she answered smiling,-"they are anything

but that. I was not thingof you at all, except indirectly,
--I was thinking of this 44system of improvements. It
seems to me Katie, as if your father was going to fill the
hopper of that mill out of his own pockets ; and once in,
the dollars will rattle down till there is not one left."
Rattle down! if my father had had the use of his
senses he might have heard them even then. I think he
never went out without a bag of dollars to put somewhere.
It was not only on the mill-dam-but here they were yaid
down on some new road instead of paving stones, and here
they went up in the air per force of gunpowder; and an-
other time were exchanged for a new pair of farm-horses-
though we had five already. But alas! there was no trans-
forming back- again ;-whenever this was attempted, mill
and roads and horses became all dry leaves.
Then as ill luck would have it, Squire Suydam's gar-
dener got hold of Mr. Howard with a plan for raising
fruits out of season-out of reason it might have been
called ; and what a pile was raised there !-or several
piles,-we thought they were only stone and mortar but I
know now they were dollars. I say ill luck-for the fable
declares that when Fortune once found a boy asleep by the
side of a well, she roused him, saying, " Pr'ythee child,
'   awake; for if you should fall in people would lay all the
blame upon me."
4 aL   Then there was the haying,---but whether it did not cost
more than it came to, "is" as Sam Weller says, "a matter
of opinion."  My father tired himself out systematically,
for the hayfields were far off and the weather July. Had
less been undertaken, Ezra Barrington's practical sense and
steadiness could have kept things straight enough; but the
power to make so many ends meet, never existed save in
the mind of a speculator.
And so the season wore on ; and we young ones sported
like butterflies, nor realized that winter was coming. And
Mr. Howard was the busiest of bees";-but he made
one grand mistake,-instead of filling, his cells as fast as
they were finished, he.went on adding comb to comb while
not one contained any honey. And what did we butterflies
care for that ?-Nothing. We thought the making cells
was very pretty work, and had no doubt but they would be

DOLLARS AN1 CB   S.             5 7-

'h
r
R


58           DoLL ARS AND CogTs.

N oL ARS  &amp;M

running-over full some day, and some how. So thought my
father. Mrs. Howard tobe sure had 3'     and often-
looked graveand sometimes remonsd@     ,i4 what was
her one word against the combined forces of myifather and
Mr. Ned?
Meantime the flowers faded.
9 'CHAPTER VIII.
Cry, ollaI to thy tongue, I pr'ythee; it curvets very unse
As
OW in all, this time neither Mrs. Ned nor]
mara had ever been near us,.-of course
each other except as we occasionally met at ot
houses or at church. My uncle tried to make
the initiative lay with us; but though my step
little in reply, she rightly felt our claims as st
would by no means make the first move. C
long drive with my uncle I had sat in his parlor
minutes, but the visit produced nothing except
from Mrs. McNamara as to whether our new
well and who made the bread. Sour intercom
striated to messages and inquiries, of which m
Mr. Ned were the medium.
Other visiters we lhad had ;-Captain De Ca
mother (when the former was at home), the lad
Bird's Nest and now and then an inroad from t
a deputation of neighbours. The Collingwoods
son, had called once or twice when we were
the afternoon of our having expedition Mr. R
r        Stephanie, Kate, and I were alone in the st
resigned the sitting-room to myfather's slumber
Howard's letter-writing; ,and as, the gentlenma
passing, we admitted him by the private sid
which we sat.
Stephanie immediately began with,
"0 Mlr. Clligwood, I am~so giad to see yi
been wishing every day that you would comne~.

3asonably.
Y1ov LiK IT.
M1rs. McNa-
e never saw
her people's
it out that
mother said
rangers, and
)nce after a
ur for a few
t a question
oven baked
urse was re-
y father and
mp and his
lies from the
he Moon or
5, father and
out, and on
odney came
udy,having
ors and;-Mrs.
n saw .usin
e-door near
ou. I lage


'60

D$s AND UEIVTS.

He looked all surprise, that was n      rtion, but
ventured no reply.
"Do tell us something about thoeles down
yonder that you seem to know so well. What sort of
people are they ?"
Mr. Collingwood hesitated a moment, and then said with
a somewhat singular grave expression,
"May I be excused Miss Holbrook for asking a more
particular description ?-it so happens that I know a good
many ladies in the neighbourhood."
."I don't believe'you're in the least doubt as to which I
mean," said Stephanie,-" those inhabitants of what they
call the Bird's Nest and I call Caffre-land,-who gave us
such remarkably good muffins the other night."
Again Mr. Collingwood paused, thoughtfully dressing the
leaves of a rose which he held in his hand ; and it seemed
to me that some feeling of pain shaded his smile when he
said,
"Miss Holbrook, you ask me a question and then in the
same breath give me good reasons why I should not answer
it."
"Why what do you mean! I haven't done such a
thing ."
" beg your pardon,-you first reminded me that I know
these ladies very well, and then that they have tried to
entertain you pleasantly at their own house."
"Just the-reasons why you should answer. If you didn't
know them you couldn't, and if I had never been there I
shouldn't want-you to."
"I knew a lady once," said Mr. Colliragwood, "whq
whenever she was questioned too closely about a friend
would reply, 'O I cannot tell you-I have eaten of her
salt;' and I must confess that even I have a little of the
Arab about me."
" It is very strange they should feel it -as they do," said
Kate,-" that so nice a point of honour should be more
universally recognised among those wild tribes than in any
civilized society."
"That is not the only flower of savage life: very few
people practise hospitality after the manner of our North'

DOLLARS.AND AEVTS.               1
"I hope vetfew people practise teazing after the pattern
of our nei         id Stephanie. "Don't you think the
world has          back by dint of civilization ?"
"Not at al !thut I wish it would go further forward.
And I would not refuse to copy a fine example,-even though
it were found only in Arabia."
" Or Caffre-land"-said Stephanie.
But' the person she addressed: neither looked up nor
spoke for a minute, and when he did speak it was not to
her.
" Miss Howard, did you ever notice the beautiful ar-
rangement of the petals of a fine rose?"
"I believe I have noticed that it is beautiful.. What
analogy were you thinking of, Mr. Collingwood ?"
He looked up then with a smile of pleasure at her quick
tracing of his thought.
" Might not one compare it to the balance of a fine charac-
ter ? where every quality holds its due proportion and place ;
where those which must come into every-day contact with
the world are unfolded like these outer petals, with yet a
leaning towards concealment; and where there is always
a hidden treasure folded away out of sight, which we judge
of by what we can see of the rest, and by the exceeding
sweetness it sends forth."
"Your picture wants touching up"-said Stephanie.
"Why don't you add that like the rose, a fine character al-
ways blushes at being unfolded?"
"That would be too obvious a remark.
"Obvious! Well, now that you have kindly given the
rest of the company something to think of, will you satisfy
my curiosity?"
If I can without dissatisfying myself," he said with a
smile.
"Very well then;-but in the first place I think you are
all crying up the Arabs for nothing. I never heard that
the salt-protection tied anything but their hands. If you
come to robbery and murder, there may be some sense in
it."
"c 'h4osels     -m purse, steals trash'"---answered Mr.
." But what has that to do with the matter now don't

'I

.


DOLLARS AND -   i S.

JXOLL4RS 4NfD .0JYTS.

be absurd,-I thought you were a person of puch e xtraor-
dinary. sense .and all that-at:least so  What's-her-
name,-l never shall get along iuni ,hm some
cognomen that I, can remember. Let me see-I will call
one 'yes ma'am', and the other"-
There was a flash of indignation in Mr. Collingwood's
face that surprised me; and as his quick glance came from
Stephanie to us I was too happy that we were looking
grave. Stephanie herself stopped short; but determined
not to show her discomfiture she directly added,
"nut. tell me how. you like that name, before I look for
another."
The flash had passed away, and it was with a very grave,
almost sad politeness that .he said,
"4I think you can find none better, Miss Holbrook, if
you have neither respect for Miss Caffery's excellence, nor
sympathy fpr anything in her that .you might. wish other
wise."
The reproof was too just to give offence-even Stephanie
felt that; .and now waked out of her. thoughtlessness could
see that it had carried her too far. But she did not speak
nor did we. Never had crickets such an audience, as the
scores that were then performing. I sat looking out into
the fading sunlight, and wishing most intently that the si-
lence might have as speedy an end, when my eye suddenly
perceived a slight motion of the half-open door. Slowly
it moved in, and a little startled I touched Mr. Collingwood
who sat next me. He turned, and at that moment the
door swung clear back, and we saw the fine head and
shoulders of Wolfgang. I am sure we were all obliged to
him, and drew breath more freely.
O.no-don't send him away !" exclaimed Kate and I
together, half answering half anticipating a gesture.
The dog stopped and looked at us'
He was a. very large hound of the old Talbot breed, deep
black,, except where upon the muzzle and.legs that colour
changed to a brownish red; and with large deep set eyes,
finely curved nostrils, and broad and very low hanging
gars. *He stood for a moment, and then walking up to his
master he laid his head on his lap, and looked up with all
helove and confidence of. a child for its mother; yet with

a shade of.humility,of~cntscious inferiority, which made
the express         e very touching. I saw Mr. Col.
lingwood's it        as he passed his hand over Wolf:
gang's-.head.        r
"I never can meet the eye; of a fine dog without being
moved," he said .at length.
"But what makes itiookso"I said,-"what is he think-
ing of?"
'Nay there you-ask too hard, a qiestion,-it would be
as difficult for me to read all his thoughts .as for him to
read mine ;--and yet in a way we understand each other
perfectly."
"He has beautiful, eyes !" I said. "But what do you see
in them, sirV'"
"'Miss Grace, when you have been coming home at night
did you never look with particular pleasure at the win-
dows ?"
"Very often."
And why were they so:attractive?"
"Why because of the light within."
"You have answered your own question as well as
mine."
"Then you think, Mr. Collingwood," said Kate, "that
Wolfgang is a sort of animated Baku-with a perpetual
fire in his head."
"In ,his head or his heart," said he smiling,-"I don't
quite know where it should be located. But I am sure it
shines out through his. eyes, and, gives this half melancholy,
half resigned expression which tells his consciousness of
having less intelligence than.I have--poor fellow !"
And Wolfgang shut his eyes, and, drew one deep breath,
of satisfaction.
"Mr. Collingwood," said Kate, ; as Stephanie left the
room to see what a knock at the front door might announce,
" will you let me ask you one question:?"
,"Will I let you, Miss Howard? Surely that is one you
need not ask."
" Yes I need, for I Want you to explan, yourself a little,
-do you think it is wrong ever to critiL"re peone ?"
*"ou are reproving me now," he. said wih one of44
pleasant smiles.

a


64            DOLLARS AND CET'

"Indeed I am not-I have no right,---I am simply asking
your opinion."  . -                   , .
I don't know but I deserve a reproof, lie said after a
moment's thought,-" nqt for a bad intention, but for the
wrong working out of a good one. To your question, Miss
Howard, I believe I must answer yes and no..':--
"And you must please to explain,". said Kate.
"I think then," he replied, "that it all depends upon the
how and the to whom. To say that :embers of the same
family, or very near friends, ough#"not to speak to each
other concerning the looks or character or manner of other
persons,-would be to abridge that freedom of speech and
thought of which I am a strong advocate. But one may
talk and even laugh about such things, without a touch of
ridicule or contempt."
"sAnd you think it' is not right to speak of them to
strangers.?"
" I think if you mention the faults, or infirmities of one
person to another who knew them not before, you do the
first an unkindness which can only be excused by the hope
of doing good to the second-either in the way of warning
or example; unless always the friend to whom you speak
is judicious and trustworthy, and can see things with your
own friendly eyes. So I think," he added as he rose to go,
-" I wish I were always quite true to my own -convictions."
. "But Mr. Collingwood," said Kate, " I don' quite under.
stand-we haven't got to the point yet."
"Because' you are afraid to bring me to it," said he
smiling. "Why did I speak- so rudely to Miss Holbrook?
-is that what you want to know ?"
"You did not speak rudely' at all; but why was it wrong
for Stephanie to speak of these ladies to you who know
them better than she does ?"
"It was not in the least wrong for her to speak of them
to me or to any one else, unless in a way that-forgive me
.-she ought not even to think of them. Words are not
much-it is the feeling which prompts them."
"Then you do think one ought not to laugh at people ?"
"I think," said Mr. Collingwood gently, "that it is dan-
gerous to indulge oneself in ridicule, especially of. personal
defects or failings which are now, at least, beyond control,

DOLLARS AND CENT.               65
But I beg you to make every needful apology from me
to Miss Holbrook,,-;perhaps I felt and spoke too strongly,
for Miss Caikdy is one of the few really good friends I
have ever had."
"We all liked her very much," said Kate, "she is so
.very gentle and pleasant."
"It is more within than without. Upon a naturally fine
moral temperament, has been built up that superstructure
without which mere natural qualities are so unsatisfying, so
unreliable-a lovely, well-developed christian character !"
How warmly he spoke ! how like a chill fell his words
upon both our hearts ! We had it not-that beautiful
superstructure. I felt the shade gather upon my own face,
and as I instinctively drew near Kate and looked up to hers,
I saw the shade there-saw my own tears reflected beneath
her drooping eyelashes.
He said no more, but stood looking at us for a moment,
and then with one kind clasp of the hand that emphasized
his words, that seemed to tell of sympathy in his eyes too,
he left us. And we sat down in the gathering twilight
hand in hand, and thought; until I, weary with the unusual
excitement of feeling, laid my head in Kate's lap, and knew
nothing more till I felt her lips upon my cheek, and heard
her voice say that it was bedtime.
"It don't signify-"- said Stephanie as she tied on her
nightcap,-' I daresay I oughtn't to have said what I did
about Miss Caffery, and I won't give her any name but her
own in future; but nothing shall prevent my calling t'other
one 'the Bain of my life'.-My mind's made up; and I
won't 'come about' for any Collingwood that ever set sail."


DOLLARS .4ND CEN'NS.
CHAPTER IX.
I wear the hoop petticoat, and am all in calicoes, when the finest are in silks.
SPCTATOa,,
JAID the season wore on.; and yet it was hardly that,
it rather flew. Flew very quietly, for the two or three*
people we liked best to, see came but seldom; and not
even" Miss Howard" would leave her books for mere
bonnets and coats, unless when it seemed absolutely neces-
sary. ,So morning visiters were left to my stepmother
and to Miss Holbrook-who was sufficiently amenable to the
charms of society-and Kate and I kept ourselves as use-
fully busy as Mr. Howard could desire. Stephanie often
joined us and would work in good earnest for a while ; but
a double rap would always banish Euclid and set her to
speculating upon 'who that could be'. In the afternoon
we were of course altogether and saw whoever came; and
as Kate's habits became better known it did seem that
the late circle increased at the expense of the early one.
At all events we had company enough to keep us from
loneliness, and for the rest we amused ourselves with
Kate's harp, reading, flowers, :walks, and the moonlight
reflections in our lake,-" Luna and Luna" as we called
them.
Early in the fall Mr. Ned Howard removed to Balti-
more. This was a sudden determination, but he had grown
tired of the Moon-or his wife had, which answered just as
well-and after very short debate and preparation they'
went ;-we paying and receiving one farewell visit. This
change was a trial to us all; and we looked sorrowfully at
the deserted house, and thought of the kind heart and smile '
that had so often come to us from thence. 0 what a blessed
thing that man has not foreknowledge !-how even then ,

DOLLARS' AND OCENZ

61

the lines of circumvallation were drawing closer and closer
to our citadel, and we knew it not !
It had been matter of grave deliberation as the cold
weather drew on, where we should spend it. To have town
life and country life succeed each other had always been
our intention. But now that hopes and interests and means
too, were fairly shipped upon "the full tide of successful
experiment," Mr. Howard thought he had better look after
them; and perhaps felt that one establishment speeded the
dollars quite fast enough,-so we concluded to winter at
Glen Luna.
Plans and debates on other points were called for, but
that was in the in-door department. The fact was, that the
stream of dollars.did not run our way; and we found it
not always easy to intercept and turn them to -our own
purposes. And when they could not be had, of necessity
a substitute must,-such a one as woman's wit can furnish.
"But if we are to stay here, mamma," said Kate one
morning, "we must at least go to town for a few days, to
get. winter dresses, and all that, you know."
"I think we shall need nothing but what we have," said
Mrs. Howard musingly.
"Why my dear mamma! there is not one of us but
Stephanie that has even a bonnet ; and as to wearing those
we had last winter, they are a great deal too slight for the
country,-the first wind that came sweeping-over these
woods would go right through them--the bonnets, I
mean."
"I know that, dear Kate-we cannot wear those-but I
think we can do without any. You know since Mr. Cary
was taken sick there has-been no church to go to, and there
is like to be none ; and for all purposes of walking I am
sure nice hoods will answer very well,-for them we have
materials."
"But visits, mamma ?"-
"All the neighbours we need go to see on this side are
very few and very near, and sensible. I know Miss Easy
would welcome a hood as: heartily as a bonnet. Visits at
the Moon may wait till spring."
"Yes,-to be sure," Kate said; -"'but it seems very
strange mamma, and I don't quite se the reason of it."

i'


.DOLLARS AND CENTS.

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"I hope it will not be so, long," said Mrs. Howard, "but
at present your father has a great deal on his hands."
"Yes, mamma, but I cannot conceive what that has to
do with our dresses,-it seems to me that we are the most
important."
And. Kate looked up with an air that quite rivalled Don
Quixote in his defiance to windmills. Mrs. Howard's face
rather grew graver and sadder.
"I don't care much about the thing itself," Kate went on,
-" it is not that,-but the principle, mamma-the reason-
ableness."
"There are few principles more important to a woman,
my dear child, than that of patient submission to circum-
stances. They are very seldom brought about by her own
agency,-her work is not to build, but to beautify; and
that may be done in a log cabin. Money is less plenty
than it was, and we must try to see how little we can cost.
We have nice dresses enough for visiting, Katie, and at
home calicoes will best suit our means and therefore best
suit us. I shall like to see how you will beautify them,"
she added with a smile.
"How many things which I call impossible or wrong,
you prove to be possible and right, mamma," said Kate,
"I wish I could always take the right view of things at
first !"
"To be sure of doing that," said my stepmother, fondly
passing her hand over the fair brow that was looking so
thoughtful; "to be quite sure of taking the right view of
things, Katie, one must always take the right stand,--upon
duty and not upon inclination. But if you sometimes make
a mistake, you never refuse to see and own that your posi-
tion was a wrong one."
The calicoes were sent for and we made them up-for
the first time. I thought myself quite dressed in one,
especially when I wore too an.apron of new white cotton.
Ah I was a simple child! but so little had dress ever been
a part of ourselves, that the transition from one style to
another seemed very slight. It mattered but little to our
light hearts whether caterpillars or jennys spun for us.
Mr. Howard knew nothing of all. this-it may be ques.
tioned whether he even knew that we had asked him for

very little money. If we had proposed the question of
calico vs. silk, he would have said,
."Have anything you want-there is money enough,-
just make out a list and I'll get you fifty yards of any-
thing.
But we knew there never could be money enough while
there were too many calls for it; and our debates were
quietly settled without a reference. As to the mere fact
of our wearing one thing instead of another,-if Mr.
Howard noticed it at all, it was probably to remark upon
our taste instead of our economy. My stepmother knew
better, saw clearer, than he did, which way improvements
y +-were tending, and made a vain attempt to counterbalance,
4f { -it would not do. Things have their due weight only in
the philosopher's apparatus,-where
"A lord and a lady went up at full sail
When a bee chanced to light on the opposite scale."
Late in October my father left home for some time on
business, and came back as we thought in remarkably good
spirits. But we got no clue till tea was over.
"Well!" he said with a vigorous shove of his tea-cup
"I've been buying some of the most beautiful cattle you
ever saw."
"Not buying ?" said Mrs. Howard.
"Yes buying-to the tune of six or eight. Let me see,"
-and taking a paper from his pocket he went on.
"1There is first ' Lady Howard' (she shall be yours Kate
my dear),-a beautiful frosted Durham: I think she's the
finest creature I ever set eyes on."
"That's well," said Kate laughing-" I shouldn't like to
have mediocrity bear my name."
"She's handsome enough to bear anybody's, name," sai
my father enthusiastically, "and has more fine points than
I ever saw in any other animal. Then 'Snow-drop'---a
white two-year old. 'Auld Reekie'-a fine Ayrshire heifer."
"But my dear father," said Kate, "who did help you
with that list of names ?--Edinburgh isn't in Ayrshire."
"6They both happen to be in Scotland," said Mr. Howard;
"and as to the names Kate, the cows may have dubbed
themselves for all hand I had in it. Well, next comes

?S,

5 K'       !6      ' t x  A      '-{   a   C      d 4it
t

68

',
Y  i
FF     +r
tiX
"i"    t
1
.y
r
kr
.


DOLLARAD NTS.LLARS AND

Puncan Grey'-a frosted Durham bull; ' Dewitt' and
'Lord Clive', two yearlings; and 'Sunbeam'-an eight-
months' calf that I think may prove the finest of the lot.
She's a perfect beauty."
"But what could you be thinking of, to buy so many
cattle just at the beginning of winter ?" said Mrs. Howard.
" What could I be thinking of? a dairy next summer and
prize cattle for the fair. Why Van Alstein (who is a very
clever fellow; by the way,) says there is no surer way of
investing money."
"1No surer way-of losing it, I'm afraid," said Mrs. How-
ard. "But you haven't half enough hay to keep them till
spring."
"Plenty, for I mean to have it all cut and mixed with
brewers' grains. I must have some mangers pit up to-mor-
row; and I have bought a cutting machine that will make
inch-lengths of the hay in no time. Is there a fire in my
study ? I have some writing to do."
"He is absolutely crazy !" said Mrs. Howard as my
father left the room.
"Why don't you tell him so mamma ?" said Kate.
"It does little good to speak when the thing is done;
and besides I don't know that I ought. Your father must
know his own affairs, one would think,-and yet these 'in-
vestments' make me nervous."
"But would these people mislead him mamma? maybe
it will all turn out as he thinks."
"Well-we will hope so," said my stepmother with a
very unhopeful face.
The cattle came, and very beautiful they were, and in
fine condition. Even my stepmother was mollified by the
expression of Lady Howard's eye as she wretched her
tongue over the fence for a turnip. It seemed impossible
that such fine creatures should ever look less well and
thriving ; and the mere step of Ezra Barrington about the
yard, gave promise they should not starve to death that
winter.
We were eating dinner one day soon after this, when
Caddie rushed in with
"If ye plase sir, the cow's in the mud beyond."
." In the mud ? what cow ?" said my father.

"It's her that was coming from Squire Bulger's, Andy
Says ,ir.
"Where in the name of all uncommon sense did she
find an mud to get into ?" said my father.
#        ".Meself doesn't know sir-it's a soft spot some place."
7}     " As high up as Andy's head I suspect. Most extraor-
dinary thing that a boy and a cow couldn't travel the high
road without walking into the first ditch they met !"
"More cows to be fed !" said Mrs. Howard.
" More cows to get out of the mud, my dear-which is
j1   the present matter in hand. Have you any rope in the
a;. house?"
"None but the clothes line."
Well give me that then ! how many clothes lines do
you think one cow would buy ?-study that to restore your
o    equanimity."
:      And seizing the coil of clean 'rope which Caddie brought
#  in, my father set off with all the men he could muster to
4f find and help the unfortunate cow.
Then Kate and Stephanie and I laughed, and Mrs.
F:  Howard looked grave and then joined us,-in which merry
mood we finished dinner.
" My mind is quite clear now about papa's being be-
witched !" said Kate. "I don't. suppose he would care if
all Philadelphia were to see him !"
" He would have small reason to care," said- Mrs. How-
ard,-" it is none of Philadelphia's-business. Your father
judges of propriety by his own sense--not by other peo-
ple's want of it."
"I wonder if everybody else in this region does' such
Fx things !"
"You h    etter ask Mr. Collingwood," said Stephanie,
"it's to 'hoped he knows something in the neighbour
hood besides ladies."
The afternoon passed till long-shadow time, and nobody
came back; and then partly anxious and partly curious we
walked out to seek tidings. The scene in the, barnyard
was worthy the pencil of Paul Potter.
The cow was alive indeed, but too, much exhausted to
get up from the sled which had brought her there; and
being of a somewhat spare habit she looked none the less,

I3OLLIRS AND CENT&amp;.

!
3
.
E ]
,.  P


I

DOLLARS AND BCE.TS,
"galmt for the coating of blue mud, which left a narrow
strip of dun colour along her back bone in rather bold
relief. Hard by stood the oxen-loosed from the sled but
not unyoked, quietly chewing the cud, and perhaps rumina-
ting as well upon the probable fate of the load they had
conveyed out of "the soft spot." Away off, Andy was
holloing after Sunbeam's vagaries, and the rest of the
cattle followed in single file the windings of the brook;
while cocks strode majestically about the yard and hens
hopped upstairs to roost, and the real sunbeams were
saying very plainly, goodnight. Mr. Howard stood with
arms folded looking at the cow ; and Ezra Barrington who
was rubbing her head and side with a wisp of straw, dis-
contentedly remarked,
" If she'd been taken care of as I take care o' cattle, I'd
ha' had her kiken up her heels by this time, instead o'
having to pull her out o' the mud!"
"What could make you buy such a looking cow, papa $"
said Kate.
"She's not in very good condition, to be sure," said my
father, "but that is easily mended; and she has some ex-
cellent points and will make a fine milker. And now she
must have a name."
"Let's call her Lady Bulger," said Kate laughing,-
"which is both an expression of politeness to the Squire
and of our hopes that the cow may grow fat."
Even my father had to laugh at this, and we left Lady
Bulger and walked back to tea.
It became a constant amusement to go to the barn at
feeding-time. Even when the weather grew cold and the
road was but a beaten track in the snow, we would run
over at the end of the short winter day to s he hay cut-
and distributed, and then to watch the cows  in emula-
tion of human nature they pushed and hooked each other
about from manger to manger, nor were ever satisfied with
their own.
We were all there one afternoon, leaning over the fence
and smiling at the strange cries and gestures which .Mr.
Barrington bestowed impartially upon Andy. and the cows;
when Squire Suydam's English farmer came by. He stop-
ped and stood talking.

DOLLARS AND 7ENTS..

73

"Bad 'abit, sir," said Roberts shaking lis head as Snow-
drop executed a most prolonged lick upon one of her should.
ders,-" very bad 'abit sir !"
"Why ?" said my father.
"They lick off so much of the 'air sir, and then swallow
it. I saw a calf once sir that died-most beautiful "calf I
ever saw in my life !-and nobody could tell what was the
matter with him. Well sir, they cut him open after he
was dead ; and they found a ball of 'air in his stomach as
big as your two fists, sir !"
"A ball of air in the calf's stomach !" cried Stephanie.
"I've heard of a soap-bubble, but-why Kte what do you
mean by stopping my mouth ?-I say I shouldn't think
that woul;i stand swallowing."
"You may be glad they had both walked away," said
Kate gravely.
"Why? you think I should have had a lecture? Not a
bit,-Mr. Howard would have laughed-he couldn't have
helped it."
But just suppose Roberts had heard you."
"Fiddlesticks ! do you suppose he would have. been
scared at the sound of a little h'english? Come, let's go
home,--they won't have done their talk in a week, and
'By the pricking of my thumbs,
Something wicked thiswaycomes',--
so I don't want to wait for it."
"Will you go mamma ?" said Kate.
" No, I shall stay for your father. But you had better
all run home as fast as you can-it is getting very cold ;
and Andy is just going with the milk so you will have an
escort."
"fle wil said Stephanie. 4"My goodness how he
would run i  ything appeared 'suddently'! I think I see
the capsizing of the milk-vails. And how you do run, both
of you ! g stop!"
" But I am so chilly."
"Stop, nevertheless,-in other words moderate your pace
-in other words walk slower. If you go rushing; into the
house at that rate, you've no idea what you will rush
against. What d  you suppose I meant by 'the pricking
of my thumbs' ?"

,         v : ,
".       -       r .
,


DOLLARS AND UCNT.

"Nonsense"-said Kate coolly.
"Well I meant sense for once. You see while your eyes
were intent upon the cattle, mine saw where ',a little skiff"
shot to the bay'; and I have no doubt-just walk and not
run round this corner, will you ?-that its contents are
quietly reposing in our drawing-room. At all events," added
she as we entered the hall, "their caps are at rest on the
hat-stand."
Kate gave her one reproving glance, and then composing
her muscles, gravely entered the drawing-room.
Sure enough we found visiters-Captain De Camp and
Lieutenant Henderson,-which last having voted three legs
of his chair a nuisance, was quietly balancing himself on
the. fourth with his head against the open study door.
"Fine season for walking, Miss Howard," said the Cap-

tain.
"Very fine," said Kate. "I hope Mrs. De Camp is well
enough to enjoy it properly ?";
".Quite well, thank you," said the Captain putting his
head and neck at right angles.
"But don't you think," said Mr. Henderson, who had a
slight lisp, "don't you think Mith Howard it ith very
fatiguing to walk in thuch cold weather ?"
"Fatiguing? Ono," said Kate smiling; "I think it is
very pleasant. I get fatigued if I do not walk, Mr..Hen-
derson."
"So do I," said the Captain. "I wanted to march off
after you at once, but Henderson wouldn't hear of it."
"One hath to walk tho fatht !"-explained the Lieu-.
tenant.
"1You would have had a quick step to march to if you
had been with us," said Stephanie. "I don't doubt you
would have been fatigued."
"Impossible, I should think, in such company ,' said Cap-
tain De Camp. "Have you been walking far, Miss'How-
ard?"f
"Only to our little settlement of barns and: barnyard.
It is almost a pity you did not take so much trouble as
such a walk can give, and then papa could have displayed
his new cattle."

DOLLARS AND iENT.

"Did you ever know," said Stephanie, "that 'air is very
pernicious to calves ?"
" Ah ?" said the Captain,-" pernicious ?"
"Very,"-said Stephanie with a grave nod of her head.
I always supposed the more they had of it the better,
Miss Holbrook."
That's what I used to think," said Miss Holbrook; "but
Squire Suydam's Englishman says they should be brought
up as much as possible on'*the 'air-tight principle."
The officers stared, and Kate and I were on the verge
of uncontrollable merriment, when Stephanie changed her
ground.
"Have you been bird's-nesting lately, Captain?"
"Not lately-no, I have not been there in some time,"
said the Captain with a rapid laugh.
" Birdthnethting !" said Mr. Henderson.
The Captain explained.
"0 1 thee !-Mith Holbrook ith quite thevere."
"But those are excellent people, Miss Holbrook,-they
really are, though you would not think it. Most excellent
people !" said the Captain with a face of grave considera-
tion.
"I should think it," said Kate quietly.
" Miss Howard," said he turning to her, "you have not
seen the new Sulphur spring near the Moon, and the fine
building that is being erected for the water-drinkers ?"
" No," said Kate.
"I should be exceedingly happy to escort you there some
day, if you will permit me."
."And Mith Holbrook-" said Mr. Henderson from his
centre of equipoise.
"Cert    !" said the Captain bowing.
"0 th    your' certainly,"' said his friend languidly,-
"I will ta1k that honour upon mythelf."
"I will go, in a minute," said Stephanie,-"Jand so will
Kate-of course."
"I should like to go," said Kate; and then rather hesi-
tatingly she added, " but I don't think I can."
" I hope I may disregard that doubt. A few days of this
weather will shut up the lake, and I assure you Miss How-

7S.'

74

i      'A
,_C  ,        , ¢
_i
n    =
)'l           -         Y
i


DOLLARS AND CENTS.
ard the ice is a perfectly safe and pleasant bridge. Will
you let me come for you next week ?"
"But suppose you were to come when I had inade up
my mind I could not go ?"
"Then I should at least have the pleasure of seeing you,"
said the Captain; and there it rested, and the gentlemen
took leave.
"1You are a strange girl, for a truthteller," said Stephanie,
--" what doubt could you possibly have ?"
"Whether papa would wish me to go."
They went off upstairs, and as I sat alone in the twilight
I heard Mr. and Mrs. Howard come in.
"What does that man come here for ?" said my father in
an annoyed tone of voice.
" What man?"..
"De Camp-I wish he'd do it !"
"Do what ?" said my stepmother laughing.
Mr. Howard vouchsafed no reply but an impatient glance,
and then hearing Kate as she came singing down stairs, he
walked off into the study and shut the door.
"Mamma," said Kate, "I have got myself into such a
scrape!"
"Such a scrape?"
"Yes-or Captain De Camp has."
Mrs. Howard really looked startled for a moment, as
if my father's last words might have been prophetic, but
Kate went on.
"You see mamma, he wants me to go to the Sulphur
spring with him, and I demurred at first, not knowing what
you would think of it; but at last I half consented that he
should come for me next week. And then, after he had
gone, it flashed upon me that I have no bpnnet! phow what
am I to do? and what do you suppose papa would say to
the plan any way ?"
"I will see to that," said Mrs. Howard; "and as to the
rest Katie, I will make you a bonnet." '
"0O no mamma! you can't!"
"0O yes I can and will,-so you need think no more
about it."
She was as good as her word, and before th6 nezeweek
Kate was provided with a sufficiently nice bonnet; but at

DOLLARS AAD CENTS.

the expense of what fitting and trying on;sewing and ripping
out! nobody wanted to go through that week again.
"The skating is as fine as possible," said Captain De Camp
when he entered our sitting-room Wednesday morning,-
"it is perfectly delightful !"
"But I hope you are not going to skate back with me?"
said Kate.
" Certainly not !" said the Captain with one of his strange
little laughs,-" on no account ! I wouldn't deprive myself
of the pleasure of your company Miss Howard, by running
away from it in that style. But I suppose I may infer from.
your question that the doubt of last week is nowhere ?"
"I found it not quite so substantial as you represent the
ice to. be."
"Melted away as the ice froze ?" said the Captain with
secret delight at something.
Kate read his thought more truly than he read hers.
" I never could understand," she said, "why gentlemen
feel so much amusement whenever they find or think they
find, fear in a woman. They are so often mistaken too-as
you are in this case, Captain De Camp."
The Captain was quite willing she should say more about
his mistakes, but she did not.
"That ith becauthe they find tho much delight in coming
to the rethcue-ith it not, Mith Howard?" said Mr. Hender.
son.                                      -
"The gentlemen ought to know, sir-" said Kate;
they do not, how can I ?"
" The gentlemeir ought to go," said Stephanie, while ornr
of them laughed and the other considered,--"Yand the ladies
too."
"But Miss Grace," said the Captain, "aren't you going?
Come, I can take care of you all-or at least of you both,-..
I suppose Henderson will attach himself to Miss Holbrook.
Run and get your -bonnet."
I told him no, and with a very smiling face, for I felt
exceedingly amused. There was no touch of shame or
mortification in my mind, but it seemed a very funny thing
that my reason should be the want of a bonnet, and that
the Capt should tell me to put it on, and be quite unable
t&amp; guess   I didn't.

, {=  ?
''f:.= ,
"   ,
{ i,,
fir,,
,,..

L 7  .

14   ,

}


78              DOLLARS AND (IEBTS.                                                    DOLLARS AND (ENTS
I stood watching the diminishing figures as they crossed
the ice, with a feeling that if I could have gone with them it
would have been pleasant; but that in the present state of
things it was rather amusing to stay at home..
CHAPTER X.
And after him came next the chil December
Yet he through merry feasting which he ma
And great bonfires, did not the cold rememb
SPEz
E were to spend Christmas at Daisy Lea
neighbourhood. This was the invariable
Avarintha informed us: Farmer Collingwood
ed any invitations himself, but always insist
annual gathering at his own house. For the l
indeed his health had been so poor that he sel
anywhere, except as he now and then made a
the course of his daily exercise ; and this, a
from the same authority, was the cause of
being at home from college.
"He won't hear of anything else," said Mi
though he was getting along so fiely,-noth
suade him to go back after he had once found
quite well; and now he just stays at home an
thing and ,sees7 to everything, and studies him
besides. I doubt," she added confidentially, "
circumstances are over good;-that is a fie f
the oldest son was desperately extravagant,
that Mr. Rodney supported himself at college
times I think that all this writing isn't for not
could tell you, if she would; but she never wi
Mr. Rodney-except to say that there is nobody
which may 'be all very true you know, Mrs.
still one likes 'to hear something more."
I et was the perfeotion of winter weather,-ti
tr Wether'cloud ;for the sky was softly
the grey forerunners of snow, and the wind w~

79
e,
3r.
NSER.
with all the
custom, Miss
never accept-
ed upon this
ast two years
dom could go
short visit in
3 we learned
Mr. Rodney's
ss Avarintha,
ng could per-,'
his father not
Does every"
self to death
whether their
rm too; but
and I know
re; so some-
thing. Easy
ll talk about
like him,'
Howard, and
iat is of win-
covered with
iclh had been


80           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

piercing for the last few days, had now lost both coldness
and activity-not a leaf stirred. At least of those that
still clung to the trees ; but many a one rustled and crum-
bled under our. feet as we and the two ladies from the
Bird's Nest walked to the Lea together. Miss Easy was
an embodiment of merino and fur, with the tiniest jndica-
tion of black silk below all; . while Miss Avarintha's dress
was as usual of the same edition but gilt and illustrated.
"The Lea house," as it was called, was neither very large
nor magnificent. It stood near the extreme horn of the
lake, but set a little back in what seemed a mere clearing--
so thickly did the forest close in around it. This was but
a belt of woodland, however, through which little leafy
paths led to the farm which was thus fenced off; the trees
being now bare, we could see the background of hill and
meadow and stubble-fields, with the barns and other farm
buildings which were grouped just at the far side of the
belt. The house had only one story, but the dark. roof
seemed to stretch away over enough of that, while most
hospitable curls of smoke welcomed us from the four cor-
ners. No coal-bin here, but a great wood-shed-filled as
if winter were in truth a besieger. Late as it was the turf
kept somewhat of its green, and one or two hemlocks
thrust out a,   l-clothed arm from among their winter-
bound comparnos. A broad gravel walk surrounded the
house on all sides and was overhung by its roof; and the
perfect order of everything seemed to have infected even
the aforesaid blue. telegraphing, which went on softly and
steadily as if it had never heard of vagaries.
"But they don't keep house for themselves," said Mrs.
Howard with a sudden look and tone of pity for the two
gentlemen that were to stand such an inroad of ladies.
" Qno ma'am!" cried Miss Avarintha,-" my dear Mrs.
How*' d! bless me, no ! They have an English house-
who has lived with them always for what I know,-
M.Crwn-she's a most excellent person. You'll see
her at the door-she'll come to meet us."
And she did, and ratified the lady's praise. To say noth-
ing of the snowy apron and jingling keys (to both of which
I am partial) Mrs. Crown's face aznd manner took your
fancy at once.

"How do you do ladies ?" she said with a tone as fresh
as the open air; "I am glad to see you indeed! rome in
pray-it's right cold; or seems so to me who have come
from the fire. But it's handsome weather for young faces,"
she added with a smile as she looked at our' flushing
cheeks.
"How is the farmer, Mrs. Crown ?" said Miss Easy.
"But poorly ma'am, I thank ye-this last starving
weather doesn't agree with him. But Mr. Rodney is well."
And leading the way into a room which owned one of
the four chimneys and an unusual complement of books,
she took off our wrappers and shoes with all the good will
in the world.
"My mind misgave me it would snow to-day," Mrs.
Crown continued, "and to be sure I think it will to-morrow;
but it's held off for Christmas. And somehow I've, always
thought a stormy twenty-fifth brought ill-luck. Miss How-
ard there's a death of cold comes in at that casement ! I
would have stopped it out but Mr. Rodney says the room's
warm enoughr-he has his table this side mostly, in winter.
Won't you please to take that chair till I can undo these
fastenings for Miss Caffery ?"
"Come here," said the lady referred to, as Kate some-
what unwillingly left the fine view down the lake ; "come
here and look at the room-I think it is the pleasantest in
the house."
"Ican't imagine how you can let all these people come
into it !" cried Miss Bain with a glance at the cloaks and
hoods and muffs that lay helter-skelter upon sofa and chairs,
and which were strangely at war with the spirit of home
and tasteful comfort which dwelt everywhere else. "I
should think it would put you out of all patience, Mrs.
Crown."
" Dear me, ma'am!" said the housekeeper, "if Mr. Rod-
ney keeps his I can't say a word,-and he never lost it yet,.
I do believe. .To be sure I wouldn't let that black muff
lie on his desk-that did make me feel a little lofty. Thinks
I to myself-! And I did -speak to Mr. Rodney about it
this morning, but he just smiled as you know he does, Miss
Easy, and said that when ladies come so far in the cold
there couldn't be anything in the house too good for them."

DOLLARS AlVD., C lYlNr

81 L '


82        -    DOLL      '.R9W  CNFJTS .
"Has Mr. Carvill arrived ?" said Miss Bain.
"No ma'am he has not."
"But I thought he was to be here by this time !"
Mrs. Crown's loquacity was however suddenly checked ;
and bending down by Miss Easy she seemed to have
concentrated all her faculties upon a sleeve button and
loop.
" This button is a thought too large, ma'am-or the loop
too small. Now is there anything more I can do for you,
ladies?"
"Not for me, thank you Mrs. Crown," said Kate, to
whosp eyes the appeal had rather been made. And there-
upon Mrs. Crown gave it' as her opinion that "there was
nothing in the house too good for some of the ladies-cer-
tainly!"
We crossed the hall, and filed into a room of very differ-
ent moral atmosphere front the one we had left. The physi-
cal atmosphere vas even warmer, for in the huge fireplace
there blazed with that slight, quiet noise which denotes
good wood, logs enough for a week's supply of an ordinary
family and chimney. But instead of the silent sensible
books, there was a buzz that one knew was not all about
fruits and flowers. The room was well filled when our five
selves were added to the Bulgers and Suydams and Browns
and McLoons, whom the fire had already driven to the
verge of desperation and the wall.
Farmer Collingwood sat in his arm-chair by the hearth-
stone, and Wolfgang lay at his feet-paws stretched out
and nose upon them,-occasionally raising his eyes but not
his head at some extra noise or bustle. Mr. Rodney was
everywhere and nowhere,-at least I never could find him
where I' looked for him. Now with Miss Easy, now with
Mrs. Howard, first with his father and then with mine,-
then coming to my quiet corner to smooth down my hair
and ask after my little felina, and once to bring me for-
ward and find me a seat by Kate. Then he would be mov-
ing some Miss Bulger's chair from a door-crack, or shielding
some Miss Suydam's face from the fire ; and at last he
took a stand by us " to refresh higeelf," as he said, " with
a little reasonable conversation." :
"0O Mr. Collingwood !" said Kate,-" you to say that !

DOLLARS Y? .CNTE              83
' A little reasonable conversation'-when you have been
talking to ever so many people that we do not know I"
He laughed and answered,
"You may suppose, Miss Howard, that I wish to think
myself a friend, and you and Miss Grace very judicious.
But what if I were to follow your example, and beg an ex-
planation of something you said that night ?"
"With all my heart-if I said anything needing or worth
an explanation."
"I am supposing that we are friends you know, and one
likes to have a friend's opinion even in slight 'matters.
You said you had 'no right' to reprove me-do you think
friends have not that right ?"
" Yes and no,' said Kate laughing; "but you must re-
member Mr. Collingwood, that I was almost an entire
stranger, and-"
"And you see that your shot glances," he said with a
smile, for Kate had stopped short in some confusion. "Ah
I have your opinion now about one thing at least. But in
the abstract, Miss Howard-do you not like frankness and
simple plain speaking ?"
"Very much."
"Then 'why should it not be practised ?"
"It should," said Kate hesitating a little, "there is nothing
I love better,.only-"
" Only the laws of etiquette forbid-?"
"No, not at all, or if they do it makes no difference,-I was
not going to say anything so silly as that. But I can't talk
about it Mr. Cgllingwood," she added laughingly, "for you
will make some other side-application of my words, and be
as far from my opinion as you were at first."
"Set me. right where I am mistaken, then," he said smi-
ling. "'If I 'understand you Miss Howard, you think the
privilege of plain speaking should be confined to very in-
timate friends. Now I go a little further, and think that
true friendly interest may confer the right, when' neither
age nor circumstances forbid. If I know myself, 'I would
.take reproof most kindly even from a stranger-if it were
given in that spirit wich is of charity and not of med-
dling."
"If--but there' is the difficulty ; and' people s&amp; generally

K"


84

DOLLARS 4ND L7DNTS.

f^J p           .a
.d    't K.5i4      *  rY
t   f     ."T"  . '
Y.     . ly
Y  y f"Y.
I     ,br t . t .4

do meddle that one is afraid of being misunderstood and
classed with them."
"Granted; and yet Miss Howard if appearances are to
bp the rule of right and wrong, do you know where that
would land us?"",
"But," ventured I,"mightn't one do harm sir if one was
even thought to be meddling ?"
" Perhaps so," he said smiling, "though I think I always
feel the spirit with which advice or reproof is given,-there
is much less danger of being misunderstood than people
fear-the chief point is, to be sure of one's own motives.
But I do not think Miss Gracie, that it is best to peril even
appearances for a trifle,-in matters of importance 'let
every man stand or fall to his own conscience!'"
" And how of things that are but incidentally important
--that you would neither put first nor last?" said Kate.
"Such as ?"-he answered with a look of keenness and
amusement that rather indisposed Kate to answer. "Nay,
if you will not give me an instance, how can I tell ?-per-
haps we should not agree in our division of classes."
"I am sure you think you would not agree with mine,"
said Kate laughing and colouring a little;-" but Mr. Col-
lingwood there are cases of minor importance, and in such
what would you do with public opinion ?"
" What would I do with it ?" he said with a smile and
a bright lighting of the eye,-" defer to it always Miss
Kate-where I could without compromising better things;
and where I could not-give it to the winds ! Public opin-
ion must be kept in its place; and when it runs counter
to my own sense of right, the question is or ought to be
easily settled."
" In other words one ought to have a great deal of moral
courage. But that is an uncommon quality, and not easy
to get."
" Because people take the wrong way to get it, I think,"
said Mr. Collingwood. " The man who is brave for noth-
ing, hardly deserves the name ; but. melt will dare every
bodily risk for what they love, or ratherthan desert their
standard. And so with moral couragei-let the cause be
but precious enough-let the mind but fairly take in the
need there is that all lovers of truth should be not only

-  DOLLARS ANYD CENTS.               85
steadfast but active on her side ; and that pha&amp;ijm of the
world's approval will vanish before the reality of its lost and
suffering condition."
"You have got back to the more important things again"
said Kate. "But I think the same rule applies to all, ex-
cept as you said, to mere trifles."
"I think so. The division of classes would never be
fixed. And after all the matter comes very near home.
'To thine own selfrbe true i
And it must follow as thenight the day,
Thou cast not then be false to any man.'",
"That is justwhat you were telling papa the other day,
that you liked so much, Katie," I said.
"1Do you always remember everything your sister says
and does, Miss Gracie ?" said Mr. Rodney with a smile at
me or my information-I wasn't sure which.
"1Not quite, sir,-I wish I could."
- We had been too earnestly engaged with our own talk
to notice that of other people; but in the pause that fol-
lowed these last words, Miss Bain's voice demanded atten-
tion.
"Isn't ,it very strange my dear sir that your son never
thought of acting up to his name ?"
"Up to his name !" echoedFarmer Oollingwood.
"Why yes sir,-it's always a wonder to me that Mr. Rod-
ney should have been anything but a sailor. Now there's
Captain De Camp went into the army for nothing na the
world but his name being Wellington."
"He might better hav' staid out of it then," was the reply.
"But that's nothing to do with Mr. Rodney, nor why he
shouldn't make a noise in the world," pursued the lady.
"Just think sir ! he might have been another Admiral Col-
lingwood."
"We don't have Admirals in this country, Miss Ava-
rintha," said the person spoken of, wheeling about ;--" and
if ever I trod quarter-deck it would be under the stars and
stripes."       ,,
"Then you miglfahave been Commodore, which is just as
good. Commodore ~Colingwood has a very distinguished~
,sound--extremely so; and I wonder you never thought of

f

_ ,f  r
~                                s;.
r          
. f                             ,.

.       '"t if%
lf;

^   H,
'  ice


86           DOLLARS AND CENT.D

it. There's something so stirring in a sea life-don't you
think so, sir ?"
"Very stirring indeed," said the Farmer with a look and
tone of voice that spoke of some discomfort.
"And it's so good for young men to knock about in the
world !" added the lady complacently.
" Miss Avarintha," said Mr. Rodney in his way of quiet
determination, "will you take my arm and let me find you
a seat by Squire Suydam? He made me promise an intro-
duction, and I would bringshim here, but you see there are
neither chairs nor good place for them."
"Distinguished !" said Farmer Collingwood in a low sad
tone, and looking after his son with unspeakable affection,-
"Rodney will find it hard to distinguish himself if he spends
all his young life in taking care of me!"
That depends upon what meaning you attach to the
word, sir," said my father who was standing quietly before
the fire. "The noisy applause of the crowd he may miss ;
but if the smile of God be distinction, Mr. Rodney is in a
fair way, for it."1
The Farmer took my father's hand with one look of
thanks.
"You are right sir," he said, "and yet I am so prone to
forget it,-so sure to remember all he might and would do
in more active life."
And the last touch of anxiety vanished before Mr. Rod-
ney's word and smile as he came back.
It were needless to describe the dinner,--everybody has
seen a Christmas entertainment, or read of one, or imagined
it. Enough that we had whatever the season could sug-
gest or furnish, prepared and served with all Mrs. Crown's
skill and taste. Paper ruffles graced the hams, and "bits
o'.Christmas" the mince' pies; and if the "Alderman in*
chains" did not look like a goose, it was only because he
was contrasted with the original. Parsley and lemons and,
bread crumbs were at a discount; while pleasanter yet to
the eye,-was' that exquisite neatness and arrangement of
table furniture which tells at least one .of the'family charac-
teristics. "Bits o' Christmas" were bestowed all about the
room in every pattern and variety of decoration; the cedar
and hemlock beautifully set off with pipsissiwa andl laurel

and arbutus berries; while the evergreen eagle at the upper
end of the room had his eyes of the bright orange capsules
of the bittersweet, and looked quite glaring. He played
only second fiddle after all, for on a stand opposite the fires
place was a real bald-headed eagle which had been shot in
some stoop after a lamb, and then stuffed; and he now
stood with wings outspread and measuring more than seven
feet from tip to tip,' as if to guard all American liberty that
was then and there represented. A most superb creature
he was; his dark brown plumage well contrasted by the
white head and tail, his legs, eyes, and hooked beak of a
bright yellow; while the crooked brown talons told of
many an encounter with living and dead prey. And so
watched we sat down to dinner.
"'Twere long to tell what steeds gave o'er,
As swept the hunt through Cambus moor."-
How some people reined up on plum pudding, and some
upon trifle; and how my father helped a Miss Bulger to
the --  piece of pumpkin pie, with a degree of gravity
that did him credit. How it grew dark as we prooeeded,-
how the eagles shone out by candle-light,--how we ad-
journed,took a recess, and then came down upon coffee and
wafers and waffles and kisses, until the aforesaid Miss Bul-
ger rode
"Alone, but with unabated zeal."
Then there is a general clearance; and amid bustling and
talking and wrapping they all go off,--all but ourselves
and the ladies from the Nest, who having not far to go have
been begged to go the later. And as the last carriage
wheels become indefinite, we draw our chairs about the big
fire which has somewhat spent its-strength by this time, and
do what is popularly called "cracking nuts,"-in other
words enjoy ourselves.'
"Mr. Rodney," says my father, "did you ever realize the
importance of a coat?"
"Sir !" says Mr. Rodney looking surprised.
"Did you ever realize, ever appreciate the importance of
a coat?" repeated m'yffather.
"Really sir," sa i iMr.' R ney smiling, " I believe I
have a sufficient appreciation f it."

D oLZA Rs Axn QE T&amp;             7

+       ,
.'   ; .
,
,.
,.
,-
'  z°
J :;
t}
"  ,t,.'
y  ti


88              DOLLARS AND GENTS.
"Sufficient! but there is the very point," saidMr. How'-
ard. "Now what part of a man is his coat, sir ?"
There was such a laugh raised at this question, that speech
was impossible; but as soon as he could be heard my
father began again with all gravity.
"I know if I were to ask De Camp-(I never saw a
name less acted up to than his) he would say to me, "A
coat, sir, is that without which man is only a framework."
But now Mr. Rodney, you are a scholar and a hard student
-give me some satisfactory answer,-what part of a man
is his coat? is it the seat of his wits, or his affections, or his
business faculties?"
We were all too curious and interested even to laugh..
Mr. Rodney looked in the fire with a very serio-comic
face, and then said.
"1I should call it only a reflection, sir,-sometimes of
his sense and sometimes upon it."
"Then you would not be disposed to adopt a slight alter-
ation of Mr. Pope and say,
'mClota makes "the man"-' "
" On no account !" was the laughing reply.
"You see," continued my father drawing a long breath
as if he felt himself relieved, "my mind has been ill at ease
on this point for the last six months; and I am very glad
to have you agree with my own unfledged opinions."
" But Mr. Howard," said Mr. Rodney," am I to have no
satisfaction about this mysterious string of questions ? It
is hardly fair, sir, to set one mind at rest at the expense of
another."
"You must explain," said the Farmer.
"Yes sir, we are very curious indeed," said Miss Easy..
But Kate had sprung up, and placing her hand before my
father's mouth she exclaimed,
"Now papa!I if you say any more
And Stephanie ejaculated,
"0 Xr Howard, pray do not! I don't know what Mr.
Collingwood thinks of me already."
" I don't believe he knows himself," said my father drily,
as he took hold of' Kate's hands; then looking up, he told
her smnfig that "she might either stan4 there handouffed Qr

DOLLARS AND CENTS.          89

go back to her seat;" and having so dismissed all opposition,
he proceeded.
"It's nothing very extraordinary good friends, and I'm
afraid not at all uncommon. One day last summer I went
into the hayfield, and the day being warm I laid aside my
coat-unsuspecting mortal that I was!-and not realizing,
as I said, its importance. And these two silly girls came
over (shall I. say what for, Kate ?) and there-to be sure they
found me working without a coat. Well sir, it might a'most
as well have been my head. Stephanie quoted Captain De
Camp, and Kate gave me -an abstract of other peopleiand
fairly charged me with having left off to be notional!-
which from her lips is a grave imputation. I denied that of
course; but not being able to think of any one else of whose
common sense I was sure except you two gentlemen,-I
declared my firm conviction that at that very moment you
were making hay in as comfortable gear as I was. And
then afterwards, naturally enough, I began to debate my
question-what part of a man is his coat ?"
"Well Mr. Howard," said the Farmer with a very indul-
gent smile, "you have taught us at least one thing-there
are no mistakes in Miss Kate's temper."
"No one could be long at finding that out," said my father
affectionately.
"But papa-" I said, "Kate did not mean that she thought
so,-only that other people did."
"0 you gipsey !" said Mr. Howard,-" to come in with
your elucidations !-Never spoil a good story my dear-if
it cuts your friends to pieces."
"I don't believe Mr. Rodney would agree with you there,
papa.-
"I'll tell you what we had better agree upon, all round,"
said my father,-" that an invitation to spend tie day does
not mean to stay all night. Miss Easy-I don't wish to
hurry you ma'am, but Mr. Collingwood will think we are all
singing privately the old song of
'We won't go home till inornhg-
Till dayligh~t doth appear.'
IT wish you would sing it," said the Farmer.
" My dear sir," said Miss Easy, "I am~ quite ready.--and


DOLLARS AND CEVS'.       91

very much obliged to you, yes sir, for reminding me. But
I waited for Mrs. Howard."
"I did have some such wild notion too," said my father,
"but I recollected that 'time and space' are trifles to a
lady."
"O papa,".said Kate laughing and stopping short at the
door, "I have an indefinite recollection of a gentleman who
always writes a page after he is called to dinner !"
We were soon ready, and leaving the other ladies in
consultation with Mrs. Crown, Kate and I went back to
the room where we had spent the evening and to the three
figures standing before the fire.
"And so Miss Kate," said Farmer Collingwood taking her
hand as she canie up to him, and looking in her face with a
very gentle amusement and interest ; "and so you think that
books must of necessity grow mouldy in a farm-house V'
"I have said nothing of the sort, Katie," said my father
laughing, as her quick glance brought the accusation.
"Is not that your opinion ?" said her questioner, still de-
taiting her hand, but very gently.
"No sir-" said Kate. "At least," she added colour-
ing exceedingly. "I suppose it is not true-whatever I
thought."
"I am quite sure you are true"-was the satisfied re-
joinder-and there were no eyes there that were not well
pleased.
"I should not venture to be anything else here, sir," said
Kate trying to rally a little,-" Mr. Rodney will think I
have profited by his lessons."
"No I shall not," said he smiling.
"Lessons !" said Miss Bain. "Who has been giving
lessons ? You, Mr. Rodney ?"
"Noena'am."
Rut1      claimed the question.
oId  u never hear of taking what is not given, Miss
ain hid'nmy father. "Mr. Rodney you need not stir-
{  il    these ladies home."
What however was not listened to ; so we sallied forth
eight strong.
There had been a flurry of snow, but it had passed over;

and now the stars were shining out, though dimly; while
in the west they were entirely concealed by the thick black
curtain of a cloud that hung there. The air had grown
cooler and our steps fell quick, and our spirits were as light
as the untrodden, unsoiled snow that our dresses brushed
from the path. Mr. Rodney walked first with his two com-
panions, then Kate and Stephanie, then Mr. and Mrs. How-
ard ; while Wolfgang and I joined them all by turns.

90

DOLLARS AND CENTS.


92           DOLLARS AND CNTS.

CHAPTER XI.

Every moment is expectancy
Of more arrivance.
5URAKPARR'

W E had a busy 'week of it. Time was, when both
Christmas and Newyear were days of expectation
and gilt books,-now, having to make all our presents, one
day seemed enough to prepare for; and as we were somewhat
belated we had agreed to keep Newyear. Each one had
her secrets-each chose her particular workroom or cor-
nei; and any other eyes or feet that ventured within the
tabooed region were met with little screams of prohibition'
and dismay.   The house was full of mystery,-on the
carpet lay strange scraps of silk and paper-from the pan-
try came no less unaccountable poundings. Things were
made of nobody could tell what, and savours came from
nobody could tell where. We were kept in a .state of
delightful uncertainty.
"O Kate my dear ! how you do smell of varnish !" said
I when she came up to bed, Newyear's eve.
" I!" said Kate.
"You.-What have you been doing?"
"Papa has been varnishing a picture-do you suppose
that could infect my clothes?"
r" Can't tell-something has. 0 me! you are all mastick
or copal-whichever it is."
And Kate bent down over me and gave me, as she said,
the last kiss fothat year. But I think she gave me an-
other when I wa half asleep.
We had been busy about things we knew not of,-busy
all that week in making wings for our spirits-in brighten-
ing up drighearts to reflect the sunbeams on that New-

year's morning, till the sunbeams themselves seemed
doubled-quadrupled. 0 people may talk of the sp
of the year ! there is no spring like that of a young
Its fresh leaves, its unexpected flowers, the new life i
at every breath; till thespirit swells like a mountain
stream, with the numberless rills of pleasure,-like the
throat of one ofMay's early songsters that would fain t1
what it feels, but cannot. And so on that bitter cold s
of January, we young ones had spring.
Our presents were but simple, except that my father gave
us each a handsome book: for the rest we had worked
slippers and ruffles and needle-books, and homemade bon-
bonieres,-whence the varnish. Then Miss Caffery sent
us each a little geranium, and Farmer CoRihgwood an
Indian basket of lady-apples,----so we thought ourselves
well off.
The moment breakfast was over, Stephanie began to
hurry herself and us.
"You see," she said, "it will take us some time to dress,
and I wouldn't miss a visiter for anything."
" My dear child," said Mrs. Howard, "you forget thWa
we are in the country. What visiters' can you expect "4
"But some might come, mamma," said Kate, "and it's
just as well to be ready."
"They always visit here"-said Stephanie,-" the Cap'
tain told me so himself."
So while I went over everything in the drawing-room
with my eye and hand (voted the quickest and carefulless
in the house) they arranged the cake-basket.
" What's all this for ?" said Mr. Howard pausing before
the table where Kate had just placed it, and coolly helping
himself to a macaroon. "Your cake will be nothing but
chips by tea-time."
"But it isn't meant for tea."
"What then ?"
"Company."
"Company !--" it was quite unnecessary to say more
and presently my father helped- himself to macaroon the
second, remarking,
b^I suppose I'm in no danger of interfering   h any-
body'

* -~

DOLL   S .dam  CENTS.           93

h
(fF


94            DOLLAR$ AND CENTS.

"Why not ?" said Stephanie.
" Becausethere is nobody to interfere with."
"Well now; Mr. Howard,. why shouldn't gentlemen
come here to-day ?"
"Why should they ?-even granting there were any to
come. To be sure I could go over to the Moon and beat
up recruits-I daresay I could pick up somebody that is
fond of macaroons;"-and Mr. Howard took a third.
"Now papa," said Kate putting her little finger in his
buttonhole, "will you please to let my cake-basket alone ?
-our resources are not inexhaustible."
"But so long as I have enough, my dear, what does it,
matter ?-you can eat poundcake for tea."
Our gravity was so completely overset, that even Mr.
Howard's face relaxed a little.
"Why should they come, indeed !" said Stephanie.
"Because there are three ladies here, and ladies are not as
plenty as blackberries in this quarter of the world."
My father shook his head, as if the blackberries had
the advantage in more respects than one.
" Three ladies !-I wonder where you studied multipli-
cation !"
"There is Mrs. Howard, one, and I am two"-  -
"I always thought you were something besides your-
self,"-remarked my father.
-" And Kate makes three," concluded Stephanie not
noticing the interruption.
"Kate is nothing but a rosebud," said my father looking
at her fondly and arranging her hair after his own fashion,.-.
" you need not put her' in your grown-up class; and as I
am in no haste to have her gathered, the longer she stays
out of it the better."
"I have heard of people's doingsueh strange things as to
admire rosebuds and pick 'em too," said Stephanie.
" Not in my garden !" said Mr. Howard, roused to an
extraordinary fit of communicativeness-" and if they do
admire it shall be across the fence. Let the bud open of
itself, but don't try to force it. A terra incognita has its.
own peculiar advantages. Ah Katie !" he added, half smi-
ling and yet half sadly too, "you are certainly showing
colour in, pite of me !" And with one kiss on her fore-,

head he left us and the cake-basket in peace. Surely if there
had been any Newyear's folly in Kate's head, my father's
words had quite cured it. If the colour came the tears
came too. But with Miss Holbrook "to the fore" there
was nothing to do but dress.
" My gracious me !" said Stephanie, "this cold weather
sends my hair flying fifty ways, and I should like to keep a
little of it at home; for I am firmly persuaded that some-
body will come-Mr. and Mrs. Howard to the contrary.
Though by the way, Kate, if your father hadn't been sure
of it too, he wouldn't have said all he did. But you have
your instructions now, my dear,-you can copy the children
in the Fairchild family-' stand behind your mamma's
chair and nobody will take any notice of you.' Except of
course those people who come to look at nothing else. I
am afraid to think," added Stephanie with a mischievous
glance, "how large a proportion of our visiters will fall un-
der that head."
But Kate's mind lay too high for the subject-as a moun-
tain-top rears itself pure and fair above the lower strata of
clouds.
"It don't much matter-" concluded Miss Holbrook,--.
"so that somebody only comes."
Somebody came,-and. first of all, Squire Bulger. He
was a heavy weighing and looking man, with a very "slow"
face, that seemed as if it must be always in the last century
-and a light brown wig; but nothing could be more
marked than his politeness. Approaching my stepmother
he stood before her with his feet in the first position, and
making a very low bow he ejaculated,
"Compliments of the season, ma'am."
Then stepping off to the left where Stephanie sat he-made
a bow some inches smaller, and repeated,
"Compliments of the*season, miss."
Kate was served with a still fainter performance ; and
when my turn came,. Squire Bulger so nearly stood upright,
and gave me so little but "theseason," that I felt not at all
flattered.
Then appeared Mr. McLoon-in a small whirl of coat-
tails.
"Good morning, Mrs. Howard ! happy Newyear ! How

7,

-DOLLARS .AN.D CENT Se


96            DOLLARS AND CENTS.

d'ye do Miss Howard ? happy Newyear! Miss Holbrook,
Miss Grace, hope you're well? happy Newyear! Mr.
Howard's out I suppose ?"
"Yes, he walked down to the Bird's Nest."
"Ah ! yes-ladies are so scarce here that one has to
make the most of them. But my dear Miss Howard, bless
my soul ! is that a grave you're digging in the garden ?"
"6No," said Kate, who would have laughed if she hadn't
been vexed ; "papa wanted some kind of a frame for cauli-
flowers, but the ground froze before it was finished."
"1Oh-must have been what they call a 'cold frame', I
should think,-I congratulate the cauliflowers. But do you
know it startled me dreadfully,-really. Mr. Howard ought
to have it covered with boards or something till the 'cold
frame' gets there. It's quite shocking, you know, to have
such things even suggested. Good morning Mrs. Howard,
good morning young Jadies ;" and Mr. McLoon took his
disagreeable face and laugh away.
We abused him for a while to our hearts' content: then
came quick smart footsteps over the frozen ground.
"'Scarlet's asy seen at a distance, anyway,'" said' Kate
laughing. "I am sure that is our marching friend."
Captain De Camp it was, and Lieutenant Henderson,
and Mr. Snow Freeman-who had come to see his name-
sake and help the two officers spend their furlough.
"It is a perfectly beautiful day," said the Captain, his
eyes quite rivalling the sky,-" really beautiful !"
" We have been birdth-nethting, Mith Holbrook," said
Lieutwhant Henderson.
" Well," said Stephanie, "and what did you bring
away ?"
".Only a few straws," said the Captain laughing.
"I should hope so," said Kate,--"spoils from such ex-
peditions are not creditable."
"I do athure you," said Mr. Henderson, whose moral
nature wanted the archetype, "that when any gentleman
thaid ' Happy Newr, Mith Bain,' the replied 'Thame to
you, third' "
We all laughed -in spite of ourselves; but more at the
speaker than with him-if he ha only known it..
" And then," said Mr. Fre 1~, "when Miss Caffery

1'

DOLLARS AND CENTS                97
asked De Camp how deep the snow was, he said 'about
six feet in our lodgings, ma'am.' Too bad; isn't it, Miss
Howard, to pun upon my unlucky name ?"'
"And why unlucky ?" said Mrs. Howard when the Cap.
tain's little rolling fire of a laugh had subsided.
" Upon my word I don't know ma'am-except that it's a
cold, uncomfortable kind of a name."
"It carries no uncomfortable look with it," said my step-
mother smiling; "and as to coldness, Mr. Freeman, people
will have the pleasure of finding out that you are warmer
than they had supposed,"
" To be sure ma'am,-that never occurred to me before;-
-and capable of being melted-ha! ha !"
" At any season of the year," said the Captain.
"And even by thtarths," said Mr. Henderson.
"I think you are all making a snow-ball of me," said
Mr. Freeman, trying hard not to laugh at his own wit.
"Then you'll grow bigger, which ithn't to be dethired,"
said Mr. Henderson.
Not laugh !-there is a degree of absurdity which un-
chains all one's muscles,--we laughed till we cried ; or till
as Mr. Henderson expressed it, "the thtarths were obth-
cured."
Our next and last visiters were Squire Suydam and Mr.
Collingwood, who came rather late and together.
"Same to you Squire," said Stephanie in reply to his
greeting; but when Mr. Rodney shook hands with her, the
intention to give him a like answer failed; for as she re-
marked afterwards, "his eyes looked so much like dark
port-holes, that she didn't care to throw in a match."
"My father was not well enough to come out.to-day,
ma'an," he said addressing Mrs. Howard, "arid could only
send his good wishes."
"And you must carry back ours,-I think Mr. Howard
has gone to the Lea himself."
" I am sure he has mamma-at least I am sure. he said he
would.";...
Is that. a corner wherein Mr. Howard may change his
mind ?" said Mr'. Rodney smiling.
" He seldom changes his mind--it is only a corner where
there might be hindrances."
,6


D DOLLARS ANDVANT

"And pray," said Squire Suydam glancing at the book
which lay by her on the causeuse, "is it the fashion now
Miss Kate to humbug. gentlemen into the belief that you
read between visits ?"
"The last Philadelphia novelty, sir," said Kate laughing.
"And what have you got here ?-Plutarch! as I am
alive! Comparing Captain De Camp with Cesar?"
There was the slightest possible curl of the lips that
answered,
"No sir."
"And what do you think of the gentleman in. ques-
tion ?"
"I should think more of him if he had been a gentleman,"
said Kate with a cool misapplication of his words,-" I have
no great fancy for savage heroes."
"I'll tell you what I think, Squire Suydam," said Ste-
phanie, "that when a man gets leave of absence for a day
to see his mother, it's absurd to spend half of it in visiting
somebody else."
"That's what he does with i; furloughs, is it ?" said Mr.
Suydam,-" I thought they -ie pretty fast. But you
can't tell what he gets them for, Miss Stephanie-the pres-
ent Mrs. De Camp has little to do with it, maybe. So you
like modern heroes best, Miss Kate ?"
"If I could find them, sir,"-she said with a vo i d cheek
a little at variance.
"Find 'em, eh? Well, look sharp and maybe you will."
"Looking sharp might be a destructive mode of proceed-
ing," said Stephanie, as the Squire turned to speak to Mrs.
Howard. "Mr. Collingwood, you are well .read in the
ancient poets I suppose-do you believe that a coup d'oeil is
ever a coup de grace ?"
"I have heard an old saying which may perhaps' answer
as well, Miss Holbrook-' un coup de langue est pire qu'un
coup de lance.'
" I think some people have the habit of using both," said
Stephanie with a little vexed abandonment of her raillery.
"Pray Mr. Collingwood are you of the family of Nelson's
friend ?"
"I have heard various things said on the subject," he said
with a somewhat amused look,.

" Why don't you go to England and find out ?'
"To find out whether I am a gentleman ?" said Mr. Rod-
ney smiling. "I could not afford the time, Miss Holbrook,
:-I prefer to ascertain the fact here."
"But for aught you. know you may be entitled to a
coronet."
He awth a smile and a slight shake of the head,
as if ma           ht be " for aught he knew."
" If I         few centuries ago, Miss Holbrook, my
patent            been clearly made out. At present
Wolfgang friend."
" Wolfgang ?" said Kate looking up.
"You know Miss Kate, a hound was one of the three
animals that entitled their owner to the name of gentleman,
or nobleman."
"No, I never knew that,-what were the other two ?"
" A hawk was one, and I believe a horse the other."
Stephanie went off to the window, and Mr. Rodney sat
down by us.
"What do you say         h-ta-to-pah, among savage
heroes?" he said,
"O I like him very muc    ut he was only an heroic
savage,-when a man gets half way into civilization, the
contrast strikes one,-I think he shews less well than in the
all savage state. Unless he be such a man as Alfred,'withi
light within that makes up for the darkness without."
"Yet Caesar had great qualities."
"Yes, but I like or dislike people as a whole."
"Cannot admire the good and pass by the evil ?" said
Mr. Collingwood,-" are you looking for some Utopian
corner of the earth, Miss Kate ?"
"No indeed-of course one must pass by some things;
but when the rominent ones are disagreeable, I am inclined
to pass by the person:"
" What do you think of Napoleon? his most prominent
quali ies  dly deserve the epithet disagreeable-they
were certai ly wonderful."
"But    ey were the less .important, Mr. Collingwood
--who ould care for head without heart ?"' said Kate
quick , and then looking down a little abashed at the smile
which met her words.

9g8

S AND CENTS.

99

,ix

t


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

101

"You think heart more important than head ?"
"I think it can better stand alone."
"Then you do not call Napoleon a hero, liss Kate ?"
" A man who would sacrifice the whole world to himself?
Oh no !--the scales must turn the other way before he could
even enter -the lists as a hero."
"Hoity-toity ! said the Squire, "wh  ..r;,yu talking
about? Sacrifices, indeed !-.fiddlesti     es don't
pay, Miss Kate."                   KY
Kate laughed, but did not seem di   t*4ke up the,
cudgels.
"Who have you been sacrificing yourself to ?" said the
Squire.
"No one, sir-it is not my habit."
"Here comes Mr. Howard !" said Stephanie returning
from the window as he entered.
"I hope you have been eating macaroons, gentlemen ?"
was his first remark-..
"What for ?" said the Squire. "I haven't thought of'
such a thing."
"It's not too late yet," fatherr seizing the cake-
basket. "There was a premium offered this morning for
somebody to eat macaroons, and-but bless me ! there-isn't
one here !"
"The premium was taken up," said Stephanie.
"Absolutely eat 'em yourselves for want of somebody
else to do it !" said Mr. Howard. " Well, then there is
nothing worth offering but dinner. Squire Suydam and
Mr. Coliingwood will you please to sit down and wait
patiently -?
" Not I!" said the Squire,-" I must be going in two
minutes."
"Why Mr. Suydam," said Kate, " do you think it is right
to treat your friends so ?"1
"And do you Miss Kate, think it is right to leave a little
old lady at home, all alone, and waiting for me.?"
0 if Mrs. Suydam is in the case," said my stepmother,
we may not urge our claims. But you, Mr. Collingwood
-cannot you disregard Mrs. Crown's turkey for once and
eat part of ours ?'1
He smiled.

I,

"No ma'am, not possibly-even if I had not already
refused part of Miss Easy's."
"I shouldn't think they would cook anything but robins,
down there," observed Stephanie.
"I'll tell you what, Miss," said the Squire, taking hold
of her ear and giving it a gentle pinch; "you want a lit-tle
o-ver-haulng., Now  Mr. Rodney, if. you've looked 1Ong
enough at these roses we'll betake ourselves to the snow-
wreaths."
So they went andwe sat down to dinner.
"Why does one always enjoy everything more on such
a day, papa ?" said Kate-" even little things that at an-
other time one-would hardly notice."
"1One does not always, my dear-sometimes one enjoys
everything less,-that, I trust, you may never prove. But
a young gay spirit on such a day, is like a snow-ball at play.
in its own element,-every turn adds something, and
every something but furnishes new points to sparkle in the
sunlight."
"That is not much like Mr. Freeman," said Kate smiling..
"But everybody seems to look better and brighter than
they ever did before-even Squire Bulger."
"1You know there are certain states of the weather,"
replied Mr. Howard, "-in which we say 'nothing can help
looking beautiful': so are there states of the spirits that
form an embellishing medium for everything. The mind
pleased and content with itself looks charitably at all the
world. Put Squire Bulger in such a mental sunshine,"
added my father smiling, "and it lights up even his brown
wig. But when we look through tears we judge more
truly,-it is only here and there an intrinsically fine scene
or character that can abide the atmosphere of storms and
clouds."
"Like Mr. Collingwood !" cried I.
"I don't believe you ever looked at him through any-
thing but clear air, Gracie," said my father smiling.
"However, I am n6t disposed to deny his radiance,-he is
a star at home, certainly,-very different from that man in
the Moon who shines only on his shoulders."
"I don't think you do Captain De Camp justice," said

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

4.4.

100


1O           DOLLARS AND CENTS.              DOLLARS AND GENTS.

Mrs. Howard: "they say he is the best son in the world,
and his mother is, as proud of him as possible."
"Is she? very likely," said my father, "but I don't
believe he'll ever set fire to anything ; and as to his being
the best son in the world, that I deny-a man cannot go
beyond his qualifications. That Sulphur spring," he con-
tined, suddenly changing his tone, "is like to bring us and
the world near enough together. They are putting up
hotels and cottages and nobody knows what all, over there ;
and the Egertons have bought a place, and the Osbornes,
and Mrs. Willet. It will make our own land more valu-
able, that's one thing."
"Not our old friend Mrs. Willett"
"The very same."
"Why that will be good fun," said Kate,-" I should
like to see them again. Will they be there next summer,
papa ?"
"Probably not, for their houses are to build. But if
you'll have patience my dear, you'll have neighbours
enough."

CHAPTER XII-
Sweet music went with us both all the wood through,
The lark, linnet, throstle, and nightingale teo'
Winds over us whispered, flocks by us did bleat,
And chirp went the grasshopper under our feet.
BYROL
T was easy to have patience in that beautiful winter
weather,-easier still when the spring came with its new
treasures. When one day we found the soft willow cat-
kins, and another the yellow tresses of the black birch; -and
another the dainty little squirrel-cups that rose from their
brown bed of leaves before Bunny himself was visible.
When robins and sparrows and phoebes and catbirds, came
like a winged fleet at the opening of navigation in some ice-
bound river ; and there were
--"notes of joy from the hang-bird and wren,
And the gossip.of swallows through all the sky."
Who could lack patience to wait for anything ,that lay
beyond ?-surely none of spring's denizens. An4 such
were we.--Our eyes saw no cloud, no ruffling of the streak
of affairs,--could not even discern that increased swiftness
of current which experience knows is near the fall. T~
three at Glen Luna all was absolutely lovely and placid
but those to whom Time had given the freedom of his great
city of life, had their trials-hope disappointed and fears
confirmed. Mr. Howard might say to himself " if I can
have patience !" To take a little wisdom along with it
never occurred tehim, and improvements went on as
as ever. Mill was finished, mill-dam in progress, fe i    {
walls were already decked with dwarfs and riders; andt  s='
rocks for the stone cottages were blasting, blasting, till
ears were tired. But-in short it was a bad honey

COLLARS AND CENTS.             10,3

'we
4
re,
1,                            )
Sr
it   r +"y   ''   "      T4
F                   r   r    I       a.     f
4
C
.      T'                ajit 52r 1  ,
} Y
Y
"' \                                                      r

',,


104

DOLLARS AND CEYTS.

and of course there was nothing to do but to make combs ;
and lest the workers should starve, the little swarm at home
were very careful not to overeat themselves-figuratively
speaking.
Despite Mrs. Howard's fears the cattle had survived the
winter,-how, Ezra Barrington best knew, and it was
doubtless owing to his.exceeding good care and manage-
ment. But' feed had not been always plenty nor easy to
get, and Snowdrop's hide had certainly lost some of its
marks of high living. Lady Bulger had roughed it better
than the rest, being of a rougher nature to begin with ; and
now that grass was to be had for the cropping, all difficulty
on that score was over. It was a difficulty which had hardly
reached our apprehension.'
" Will anybody bear me company in a long walk ?"
said Mr. Rodney as he entered our sitting-room one April
morning.
"One body will," said I.
"And another," said Kate.
"Are you going up the hill difficulty-or discretion ?"
said Stephanie. "Because if it's the last, Mr. Collingwood,
I never shall get to the top, so it's no use to try,-I may as
well stay where I am, in the valley of 'fits and starts'."
"het one of the starts take you with us Miss Holbrook,"
he answered smiling, "and I will promise to help you up
every hill we come to."
"Don't attempt to help me up that one," said Stephanie,
"for I tell you it's no use. If you dragged me up, I should
roll right down again-the first thing I did,-if I didn't take
a wilful start and run."
"I have no opinion of dragging, up any hill," he replied;
and we went to get ready.
"Are you going to the Brown bluff, Mr. Collingwood?"
I said.
"No, not this morning,-unlesssome of you wish it."
"I don't-I like a new walk better. 0 you should have
seen the flag I had up there last summer 1"
-."I did !" said he with a smile, "and thought of Purrer-
purrer immediately."
"Purrer-purrer! what could make you think of her? 1I'm
sure my white flag didn't look much like puey"

DOLLARS AND CENT.

105

"Not much,--but extremely like pussy's mistress."
"So I thought," said Kate. "It went about as straight
to my heart, Gracie, as if I had been eyeing you through a
telescope,-or had caught some shadow or reflection of the
little figure that was out of sight."
"Mr. Collingwood," said Stephanie, "do you know every-
thing ?"
~  Not quite," *said he smiling,-" I am in no danger of
leading an idle life for want of something to learn."
"But don't you know most things that other people
don't know ?"
"I am not very well acquainted with other people's ac-
quirements."
"Look here," said Stephanie, "you're dragging me up
the patient hill at present, and in the most roundabout way
that can be. Won't you just give me a plain answer i
-didn't you ever study strange out of the way things ?"
"Sometimes-a few,"-said Mr. Collingwood with a
rather comical play of the mouth. "What do you want
to know, Miss Stephanie?-I'm sure that isstraightforward."
"I .want to know why that white flag looked like this
young one,-for it certainly did, even to my unsentimental
eyes."
"Unsentimental-yes, none other could see it. Senti-
mental eyes look rather at the effect of matter upon mind
than of mind upon niatter."
" I confess that my eyes look into obscurity at present,"
said Stephanie.
" To come into daylight then-I think that every work
not purely mechanical bears the stamp of the author's char-
acter. A very country-seat will shew whether ignorance
or education be at the head of it,-whether its owner have
cultivation and refinement as well as taste."
" Do you think they can be separated ?" said Kate.
"Not if you take the word taste in its true sense. There
is a sort, current in the world, which sometimes knows
strange associates; "and many persons have a key to the
streams of beauty, who can by no means unlock the secrets
of the fountain-head."
" But Grace and the flag .I was not talking of country~
seats,' said Stephanie.

4r  '  "


,X06          DOLLARS AND UENTS.

"I said every work,-there was so much of Miss Grace's
character in the flag, that it was not-very hard to imagine
it a personification of her own little self." K
"In other words td make a dissolving view-Vanish the
flag into thin air, leaving Grace on the top of a pine-tree!
Ilf I had followed out that train of reasoning in the stage-
coach, I should have been desperately uncomfortable !"
"You are disposed of now, Miss Gracie," said Mr. Col-
lingwood laughing.
"But I think you are all wrong," I said,-"the flag made
me think of Kate, so it must have looked like her. You
didn't see straight, Mr. Collingwood."
"Maybe I did," he answered with a smile.
"After all," said Stephanie, "Grace didn't put up the flag
--we ought to have seen Andy."
"No indeed !" said Kate,-" the plan is the work, to all
intents and purposes."
"To all intents, if you please," said Stephanie,-" I de-
mur to the purposes. Instance Squire Bulger's saw-mill
yonder-built over a stream that didn't exist. Looks like
him, doesn't it, Mr. Collingwood?"
"I think you would make a difficult pupil, Miss Hol-
brook. I should need to study one or two more out of the
way things if I had to give you lessons."
Thus talking and discussing, we had followed a winding
foot-path to the very top of what was called the Green hill
--from the crops of winter grain which there skewed their
beauty. The owner never planted it with anything else,
except where a short alternation became absolutely neces-
sary ; and in the spring Green hill was the prettiest sight
that could be. A small clump of hickories grew near the
top, and there we sat us down to rest and look about.
We were to the north-east of our own Glen, which lay
* full in sight ; as did also the Bird's Nest, shadowed by its
great. tree. The lake lay beyond,'visible from horn to
horn, and gleaming in the soft ring sun ; and on the fur-
ther gently sloping shore the shite houses at the Moon
shone clean and bright, as if their spring confusion were
already over. Between us and the level ground there was
nothing but wintergrain,-some three inches high now,
and covering the st-ells and holl4s with a surpassing ver-

DOLLARS AND UENT.              107
,dre that was more or less bright in places, as the spears
bent before the breeze or stood breathlessly waiting its ap-
proach. There was not a sound, there was not a stir, ex-
cept in nature's pure kingdom,-'-tke faint "haw !" to some
distant team seemed hardly to belong to any other; and
now and then a bird in the tree-top above us
"Shook out of his little throat floods of delirious music.-"
as Longfellow has it.
Far to the west stood the little brown church; and some-
what nearer, a faint touch of blue against the budding trees
told of the Lea fireside. There Mr. Rodney's eyes were
fixed,--fixed with such thoughtful, grave expression, that
no one cared to interrupt his musings. And the phoebes
called to each other, and the song sparrows uttered their
joyous allegro ; and breeze and sun and song seemed to
pass on like a flood-ever varying, ever the same,-a
kind of mingled sweetness for which the mind had no
prism.
On all sides of us a well-cultivated country stretched
away to the blue distance. Long rolls of grass and stub.
ble and ploughed fields, with here and there a patch of dark
forest, or the white spot of some farmhouse and the sangui-
nary hue of its barn. Often both buildings were of the
same uniform no-paint colour, and hardly discernible in the,
distance. There was little rough ground to be seen, and
what appeared so by contrast, would hardly have deserved
the name in a ruder region. A few heights of "sterner
stuff" than their neighbours were left to choose and enjoy
their own tenants,-stones, and wild plants, and trees that
disdained cultivation and shewed the want of it; while
their tumbling brooks felt the power of influence when they
reached the lower grounds, and flowed gently and with fer-
tilizing leisure. These rude spots were but few. FarmW
and farm-houses, mills, water-courses, rail fences, a stord
wall or two, and ; a n  sprinkling of pleasure grounds,
made up the landscape. In the extreme south a short line
of blue pyramids checked the soft cultivation, and told us
that such was not all the world.
" Mr. Collingwood," said I, as his look came back to the
things near him, " did you ever read ' Evenings at HonW "


DOLLARS AND GENTS.           109

108           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"I believe I have, Miss Gracie. How should daylight
out of doors make you think of evenings at home ?"
"Those blue mountains, you know-they're like those the
squirrel wanted to get to."
"I don't think the squirrel was so far wrong after all,"
said Kate-" seeing he didn't know any better,-blue
mountains are some of the most attractive things in the
world."
"Why ?" said Mr. Collingwood.
"They look so pure and peaceful-so resting,-as if
rough winds could not blow there,-as if there one could
never be weary."
" It is but earth still," he answered, "and a fair ,type of
earth's power to satisfy; so inviting in the distance, so cold
when reached. Many a one has proved the squirrel's expe-
rience. The only land
'Where tempests never beat nor billows roar,'
lies out of sight; and concerning it there 'have been no
more striking words written than those few, 'I shall be
satisfied!'" .
He spoke with a grave realization that seemed an echo
from the very land he referred to.
"But it's so pleasant to take a bright view of things !"
sMid Stephanie breaking through a silence she had- no liking
for.
"So pleasant that I would seek for the brightest.-If my
words bear any gloomy construction, Miss Holbrook, I ex-
pressed myself ill."
"But Mr. Collingwood," said Kate rather timidly, "do
you think aerial perspective is 'meant to serve no pur.
pse? that one ought to disregard its effect as much as
possible ?"
* "By no means-either in the physical or mental world.
It would be a sorrowful thing if all the chequer work of
life were as distinct at a distance a'hear by. And yet Miss
Kate it is good sometimes to look through a telescope,-
good always to approach hope's blue mountains with a
mind braced for possibilities. No joy was ever less sweet
for a moderated expectation."
"1 don't believe in your telescopic view," said Stephamie.

"Why shouldn't I think that little brown speck to be a
hermitage instead of a hut ?"
"And that huts and misery do not exist ?"
"In my neighbourhood-they may be somewhere in the
world, of course."
" Why shouldn't a physician try to think all his patients
in perfect health ?"
"Fiddle-de-dee ! they're in his charge, and have called
for his help."
"And did you never hearan appeal from a mere outside
of wretchedness ? Ah Miss Stephanie-that will not do!
I wish I had a spy-glass to give you a nearer view of that
same brown speck. You would think it spoke pretty
plainly."
1"I wish you hadn't! Don't it make you sad to go to
such places ?"
"Then why should one go ?-I don't like to feel sad.
Now the physician knows he can do something."
"I beg your pardon-he only knows that he can try,-
whether he shall succeed or not is a matter quite out of'his
hands. Miss Kate, will you not give us the result of this
long meditation ?"
"I was thinking that one does not always know how to
try."
Mr. Collingwood smiled.
"But one can always use those powerful simples, en-
couragement and sympathy,-and Miss Kate," he added
gently, "one ought to know how to apply the catholi-
con."
"Yes, that is very true."
" They are such dreadful places to go to !" said Stephanie,a.-
" I don't suppose one in fifty keeps a broom, and even the
farmhouses are curious enough."
"I have always thought," said Mr. Oollingwood, "that
there is nothing Zore beautiful about the sunlight, than its
seeking the dar~te places and giving at least a. passing
notice to ail that is most shunned and despised. And no-
body ever thought that those pure rays compromised their
dignity."
" But after all," said Stephanie with a mixture of seri-


~iO     .DOLLAR,  4AL$N l,

311

ousness and mischievous jisinuation, "there isn't apt to b8
more than one sun in a neighbourhood."
Mr. 'Ollingwood coloured a little, but then lightly an-
swered her according to the letter.
"If you charge me with being fanciful, I must fall back
upon George Herbert. He says,
'Shine like the sun in every corner.'"
He is fanciful-I don't like him."
"I do," said Kate. "But MW Collingwood, the sun has
a power of going about which very much assists his benev-
olence."
"I know that very well, said he smiling, "but remem-
ber too, Miss Kate, the sun is felt where he cannot be
peen."
"Does your telescope say that is water or mud down
yonder ?" said Stephanie as we began to descend the hill.
"Mud-decidedly."
"Are there no springs hereabouts ?"
"There is one not far off," he answered somewhat comi-
cally ; "but unluckily it is in a garden, and the garden
surrounds a house-painted red ! and the front door has a
horizontal division."
"1How absurd you are!" said Stephanie while Kate and
I laughed. " Is it a hut ?"
"No-a farmhouse."
"That is bad. I could go to a hut for water, but these
farmhouse people would pull us in and put us in rocking-
chairs."
"And the consequences, Miss Stephanie ?"
"The consequences would be that we should have to sit
and talk to them."
Mr. Collingwood stood with folded arms as if awaiting
further information.
"Don't you see !" said Stephanie-" they would take it
as a.i.i
as"And perhaps come and see us in turn," said Kate.
Mr. Collingwood laughed and walked on.
"You are quite beyond me now !" he said. "I thought I
could answer all your objections, but I am out of my depth.
HIowever if you will wait for mue at a safe distance, I will

bring you some water-I think I can be trusted'with a
tumbler; for unfortunately," he added with a smile that
was keen as well as bright, "I have some acquafgtince with
the family."
"We do not need it in the least," Kate said,-" you
need not take the trouble-we can wait till we get home."
"It is no trouble Miss Kate-you will be quite safe if
you stand here. There is very little passing on this road,
and I shall be back in a moment."
He went before we could hinder it, and we stood rather
thoughtfully eyeing the dell. and the red house and Mr.
Rodney and the divided front door-which had certainly
opened to admit him with all the unanimity of good will.
It was but a moment as he said before he brought us a
pitcher of the brightest and coldest water, and glasses which,
if not cut, yere admirably clean. They were scarce filled
before a messenger came running from the hut.'A little
girl-with a very pretty face, bare feet, and toilet arrange-
ments that spoke an abundance of out-door play.
"Mr. Rodney," she said in a shy half whisper, and
looking at us between words, "Granny said to tell the
ladies if they'd drink some milk, I'd fetch it to 'em right
away."
"Why don't you ask the ladies themselves, Susie ?"
The child looked up at Kate, but did not open her lips
except to smile ; and the answer she got was so very smi-
ling and pleasant, that her next question was somewhat
startling-though spoken low as at first.
" Mr. Rodney who is the pretty lady ?"
Stephanie took her tumbler from her lips and laughed,
while Kate reversed that action and blushed; and Mr. Col-
lingwood with perfect gravity gave.our names in the order *
of seniority.
" I should like to liss her, so much!" said the child fold-
ing her hands, together.
"You may kiss me, Susie," said Mr. Collingwood quick-
ly,-" will not that do as well? Or,if you like it better, I
will kiss you"~
But Susie did not choose to wait for that, and after a
little twisting of herself about she turned round and scam-
pered back to the house, while Mr. Collingwood followed

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

4

4l0

;
..'
'
i
,
.... 'x uc.e       ...a+         s9y                 ' .


DOLLARS AND CENT*                                           D

more leisurely with the borrowed articles ; and then we
presently resumed our walk.
"1Do farmhouse children usually exhibit such discern-
ment ?" said Stephanie with the delight of annoying one of
her companions and the hope of annoying two. But that
failed.
"As what, Miss Stephanie ?"
" As this little rustic we have just seen."
"And as how exhibited ?"
"Why did you interfere to hinder the child's wish?"
said Miss Holbrook abruptly.
"I trust my interference was not unwarrantable nor ill-
timed. I am sure Miss Kate forgave me."
"Only half,"-said Kate, looking up as if she meant to
have her question answered,-" it was not more than half
out of good nature to me, Mr. Collingwood ?"
"Yes, rather more," he said with a smile.
"Weren't you afraid I would refuse, and so hurt the
child's feelings ?"
" A little."-                      .       .
We had paused upon a rising ground to look back, and
the farmhouse dell showed very fairly in the distance;
but now we saw a figure approaching the door whom we
all recognized at once,-indeed as Kate said afterwards,
"it could be nobody but Miss Easy."  Mr. Rodney said
nothing, he neither called our attention to the lady nor told
us who it was; but as she reached the door and went in,
among the little troop that had rushed out to meet her, his
eye wore a look of singular brightness and pleasure; and
so much of the glow remained when we turned again to our
walk, that Stephanie lost patience,
Then you would absolutely encourage uppishness !" she
said. "Well I wouldn't !"
"Nor I,-and therefore"- he stopped short.
"You may just as well go on-'and therefore you
wouldn't practise it.'-You are mistaken for once in your
life."
"Don't you think such people are apt to presume, Mr.
Collingwood?" said Kate.
"Very apt if you give them a chance. But if we meet
the poor now and then on their own ground, they will care

F   1
Kfif y;
es:
rqt
t SY
;i
%r
1rn
rah,
ik
iY
v
I
A Kri
Y
4
W,
9
K
Hl
t
1
t
f

-

I

i
.-
s
f
rf
la
1
i
i
_
1
r
c
J
4
t
ft
4 1
P,
6
y
C
.
'V
F
E
F_
d
i

112

113

DOLLARS AND CENTS'.

the less about attaining to ours. It is this nervous guard-
ing of position which makes them feel looked down upon ;
and then naturally they try for a stand where that shall
seem less possible. The silk slipper never hurt itself by a
step off the dais."
"Not even into the mud ?"
"If people cannot keep out of the mud," said Mr. Col-
lingwood laughing, "they had better put on hob-nailed shoes
at once, and keep off the dais. Why Miss Stephanie I have
seen a delicate slipper pass through city streets as if they
were carpeted !"
"Then on the whole you like farmhouses ?"
"On the whole I prefer large mirrors if any, and ungar-
nished with asparagus-also I confess to a predilection for
other than rag-carpets."
And then as he bade us good-morning Mr. Rodney said
with a smile,
"You do not like George Herbert-will you quarrel with
Shakspeare or with me, if I remind you of Portia's 'little
candle' ?"

4

a

4C
i

c
F"
s


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

115

CHAPTER. XIII.
Nay, if our wits run the wild-goose chase, I have done; for thou hast more
of the wild-goose in one of thy wits, than I have in my whole fve.
s1AESPEARIC.
"   ERHAPS you remember, Kate," said Stephanie one
morning, "-that very wise and sententious remark
that your father niade the other day about the properties
of mnan ?"
"' The chief properties of man are contemplation and
sociableness'? that was only a quotation from, More, I
think he said."
" Only !-well, since Mr. Howard quoted it, I suppose I
may venture to refer to it. It struck me as particularly
wise,-for I have been thinking that man, and of course
woman, was made up of only one. Now don't you sup-
pose that standing too much upon one foot may have a
tendency to weaken the other ?"
"Do you think of trying contemplation ?" said Kate,
without looking up from her book,-" yes, I should think
it quite probable."
"I wish to goodness you might fall into somebody's
hands who would give you an overdose of contemplation
for once !" said Stephanie.    ~
" Overdoses never kill," said Kate smiling,--" I should
come out a hermit."
" My dear, you are that already-only you don't know
it,-the life you lead here at present by no means savours
of dissipation."
"I doubt if my life would, anywhere," said Kate.
"Might savour of it, you know-just a souppona,-as
people put a grain of sugar in gruel."

J 1
(:4
i

" I never do," said Kate,-" a grain 'of salt is to my
liking; and no one ever found that in dissipation."
"I declare," said Stephanie, "if you will not attend to
my words, I will pelt you with quotations."
"Where from ?"
"Don't know, in the least-but you will as soon as I
tell them to you.  How do you like this. 'The eagle
flies alone, it is only the sheep that like company.' Are
you going to make an eagle of yourself? one of the 'select
few'? for I'm sure my quotation should be in the plural-
eagles do occasionally like company."
"You are altogether too profound for my light reading,"
laid Kate, shutting her book. "What is all this about?  I
thought you had been turning pirouettes on both feet, all
your life."
"It is all about my going to pay Mrs. Eustace'a visit."
"What put such a thing into your head?"
"This letter of request that I would come; and my mind
being an easy one to make up, I shall spend all my energies
upon my trunk, and depart to-morrow morning with your
'father."
To say was to do, and she went.
We were particularly quiet after that, for Mr. Howard
began to be a good deal away,-property elsewhere
demanded his attention, and Glen Luna had to wait its
turn. Yet even this repeated absence had a bright side-
the coming back; and then, besides the pleasure of seeing
him and hearing of the people and things he had seen,
there was always some. interest about my father's trunk.
The Moon shops were but so-so, and those at Wiamee still
worse ; so we always sent elsewhere when we could; and
Mr. Howard brought home things i. every variety. The
long journey or the trunk gave theau a -peculiar charm.
Never were there such spools of cotton-never were the
various little articles of family use so well appreciated ;
and often there came too a surprise,-a new book, a work-
box, or a gold pen..
Whenever Mr. Howard staid at home for a few dys,
the improvements went on in double quick time ; for as
Ezra "Barrington remarked, " he made the men fly round
like shell peas." We thought some of the improvements,

DOLLARS AND   EMTS.

I A14

d kR '         :             r fr. .
t
+


DOLLARS AND CENTS.           117

116           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

might have had another name, and felt it hard to spare
fine branches because by and by the tree would be the
handsomer. Iwneed we always took that promise with
a doubt, and other innovations that were confessedly for
use met with still less favour. A wall must cut us off in
that direction because the cattle got into the garden ; and
this road must be changed from its pretty winding curves
to a direct line, because a short cut to the barn seemed
desirable. But whenever I went that way, I quitted the
new gravel for the old crooks, which the grass was lending
a hand to obliterate, and followed them pertinaciously.
Everybody laughed at me for it, but my feet were discon-
tented else.
One day when we were roaming the fields, and admiring
the white promise of wild strawberries, we came to a little
hollow that had last year been very liberal. The march of
improvement had set its foot even there. Ezra Barrington
with cart and oxen was dumping gravel into the very hol-
low; and the amount of white blossoms that tried to shake
their heads clear at the outskirts of the heap, gave a fair
indication of the fruitless efforts that lay beneath its centre.
My father stood complacently looking on..
" Why papa!" exclaimed Kate-" you are filling up my
beautiful strawberry patch !"
"Must be filled up, my dear,-don't you see it is just in
the course of this road i"
"But why can't the road go round it ?" said I.
"That would liardly do,-it would be inconvenient, and
wouldn't look well besides."
"I think it would look better than this."
"Ge' 'long !" said Mr. Barrington, in a very audible
aside to his team. "Come about! hawj-You want it
right straight across, Squire ?-.maybe another Joad'll fill it
up sufficient if you don't mind it's being a bit wavy. Other-
ways it'll take three."
" Straight across !" said my father-" there's gravel
enough. I don't care if it takes a dozen."
" There aren't strawberries enough," said Kate.-" Papa
it is rather too bad !"
"Nonsense !" said my father, " we shall have berries in

1*'

iX
V

the garden next summer,--and if we didn't the road is of
much more importance."
"Nobody likes to eat them betterthan you do, papa !"
"Well I will curb my appetite for once," said Mr. How.
ard laughing.
The subject of country neighbours was not quite laid
asleep, for in spite of Kate and Stephanie's precautions
we were exposed to a visit now and then which did not
please them,-sometimes dictated by curiosity, sometimes
by policy. If the family of the country doctor had failed
in attention, there would have been danger of our being
sick under nobody knows what auspices; and the same
might be said of our quarrels had the attorney been remiss;
-while the proprietor of the only mill in the neighbour-
hood probably thought that as we were putting up another
there could be no reason why we should not be well ac-
quainted.
Mrs. Howard bore it all with her usual gentleness towards
human nature 'in whatever form; but Kate found it very
annoying, and would fain have made the visits egin and
end at the front doof. This my father negatived with his
usual coolness. Everybody might come that wanted to he
said, and get all the good that eyes could take in;-as for
being "engaged" to one person and not to another-merely
because the one was poor and the other rich-he had no
idea of it,-" he knew what was due to ourselves."  To do
him justice he never put himself out of the way for anybody,
in the least. If he didn't want to stay in the drawing-
room he walked off into the study; and when he did stay
it was to be silent as often as to talk. But listeners are
always popular, and my father was soon voted the pink of
politeness,-either physician or attorney would have at-
tended him with pleasure.
July was well.on its way before Stephanie returned; and
then she came tired, grave, and rather silent,-a most un-
usual combination for Miss Holbrook. Sleep exerted its
restorative powers but partially; for though she talked
fast enough all breakfast time, afterwards, when we took
our work into the room where she was unpacking, Stephanie
seemed to plunge as deep into the recesses of he nid as
of her trunks,-and brought forth much less.

;z_


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"What are you thinking about ?" Kate said at length.
. " I was reflecting upon the amount of things that a visit
may do and undo-just; look at this dress! who would
suppose it had ever been fit to put on !"
"Why anybody that knew anything about dresses and
-     wearing them. But what has the visit done? this is just
the undoing."
But Stephanie only made another plunge. "It must be
yourself!" said Kate laughing-" I never saw you in such
good order before,-you have excessively the air of having
just come from the ruffle woman. I didn't know that
Mrs. Eustace made such liberal use of starch and fluting-
irons."
"If it's all the same to you," said Stephanie with some-
thing of her own manner, "I'd as leave not be exasperated."
"I would exasperate you in a minute," said Kate still
laughing, "if I only knew how-at present I have not the
slightest idea who you are. Just look out of the window
and say that you feel at home or I shall conclude you' are
somebody else."
"Wilder conclusions than that have come true, and my
eyes have at present full occupation."
"But Stephanie," I said, "it is so lovely out,-it's a
shame not to look at such flowers and sunshine,-we
think everything is prettier than it ever was."
"Very likely"-said Stephanie,-" I can answer for
Kate ;-but Grace my dear, I do not wish to have my
fancy entangled among flowers and sunshine."
"Why not?"
" Because I have made up my mind to run a race with a
snow-ball-and in those latitudes you know, such things
don't flourish."
"I wonder which foot you are on now ?" said Kate.
",Why do you talk such nonsense ?"
" Truth must be spoken, if it is nonsense."
" Do separate them," said Kate a little impatiently, "and
give us the short cut of this rigmarole. What are you
talking about ?"
"Short cut ?" said Stephanie-" it's a hard knot, or like
to be; and as to talking-I was alluding with sufficient
distinctness to .a person I thought you might remember."

If-

And locking tie empty trunk, Miss Holbrook pushed it,
from her and opened a full one.
Kate laid down her work.
"I never saw you serious in my life, so it's no wonder
if I am puzzled. You don't wean that you intend to marry
Mr. Freeman."
"Precisely-if you like that name better,-  prefer his
appellation of Snowball."
"How can you be so absurd !" said Kate, laughing iti
spite of herself at the cool demureness of the reply.
"My gracious me !" said Stephanie as with an emphatic
fling of a pair of shoes into the corner, she crossed her
arms and looked up at us, "you're enough to try more
patience than I've got ! Here am I making revelations
that ought to be a la rouge I suppose, and you won't believe
them. Don't I tell you I'm going to marry that man?
Was nobody ever married before ?"
"But not to Mr. Freeman," said Kate-with a most
innocent rendering of her thoughts into plain English., _f
"Not to Mr. Freeman !-Probably not--your piac
information are startling. I suppose there must be  '
time-even for Mr. Freeman. You see the 'thtarths'
melted him, as Henderson says."
"But what has melted you ?" said Kate.
" I don't profess to be an iceberg," said Stephanie dryly
and turning to her trunk. .Then changing her tone she
added,
"And it isn't desirable you know that, we should both
be of 'the melting mood', or we might run away together.
Now don't look so horrified either of you. Kate-do you
perceive how completely unstarched-I am ?"
Kate smiled a little but with a -rather grave face, and
went on taking stitches in the most abstracted manner;
while Stephanie as half in argument with her silence con-
tinued.
"What is it to any one if I like snow-balls? I don't say
they're as striking. as epaulettes or is aspiring as eagles
And by the way, how is his falconship ?"
"I didn't know eagles were falcons," said I.
"Belong to the Falconidae, don't they ? or IPve forgotten
all about ornithology. But yod~iknw, Kate, I never was5

,4

119

118

DOLLARS AND CENTS.


120     ~      DOLLARS AND CEYTS.
strong-winged enough to 'follow such a flight,'-.that is
reserved for-somebody else. .Better eyes than mine must
exert their powers, when the object is some miles above'
earth. Don't puzzle your head' Gracie."
"1Well," said Kate, "as I do not know Mr. Freeman I
cannot congratulate you."
"And knowing me you cannot congratulate him-I'll
forgive you all that if you'll do something else. Katydid
-just be Katydo for once, and tell Mr. Howard what I
have told you. I really cannot tell him myself, for he'd cer-
tainly pour out some of the prophecies he used to make
about the poor Captain; and I'm afraid I should pass all
bounds of decorum if he told me my snow-ball would
"never set fire to anything."
"O Stephanie !'" Kate said-then checking herself she
folded up her work, and sticking the needle in it with un-
usual care, remarked,
"I will do all you wish me to."
"That was not what you were going to say ?"
"Px cNo."
"Tell me that."
KIt's better unsaid.-Is there anything else for me to
tell papa."
"Nothing,-only make him understand all this clearly,
so that he won't come down upon me with any questions;-
my self-possession extends but to ordinary occasions. And
now Kate," she said springing off the floor and laying her
hands on Kate's shoulders, "I know every word you were
going to say, and you are altogether right and partly wrong,
-which is a charming combination. There, now go, both
of you, and let me finish this job without the distraction
of your eyelashes-which make me feel melancholy. Pre-
liminary 'tears and white muslin' are more than I bargained
for."
When Kate and I had talked over this strange conversa-
tion with a mingling of sorrow and wonder, we went into
n rsHoward's room and gave her the benefit of it. My
* .   lhe's comments were deferred for a day or two as he was
fidifr home.
"Papa," Kate began the next morning after his return,
"do you'know that Stephanie is going to be married ?"

DOLLARS AND CENTS.              121
"No I don't," he replied, facing round upon late as if he
wondered how the subject got into her head.
"Then I have the pleasure of informing you," said Kate
with a laugh at the gravity with which she was'eyed.
'"I have not the pleasure of hearing," said Mr. Howard
knitting his brows.
"But you must hear and be pleased too, papa."
"With what ?"
" Why-with this news I am telling you."
".Humph-" said my father. "Who set that ball a
rolling?"
" Mr. Freeman in the first place, I suppose, papa."
My father looked at the demure eyes that met his, as if
he would like to find fault with something,-he couldn't
with them.
"Freeman!" he said turning round to his former position..
"Marry that man ! no indeed she shall not."
"Why Mr. Howard !" said my stepmother, "what an
you possibly mea"?
"Just that," said my father coolly.
"But you have no right to say so,--and it wouldn't do
any good besides."
" What can you possibly mean now? No right, and I
her guardian ! No good to forbid her marrying a man with
more inches than ideas !"
"No good at all-for she'd marry him when she came of
age or run away before. And as to the right, as your friend=
the Chancellor used to say 'you may have 'it in law but not
in equity,'-if she really likes the man and he is unobjec-
tionable.'
"I tell you he isn't unobjectionable. I never heara4
harm of him, 'but he's a nonentity."
That is only a negative objection," said mystepmothe
smiling.
"My objections are positive enough," said my father.
"N ow my dear Mr. Howard, do be reasonable.' Make
inquiries about Mrs Freeman, and if he is good and respect. '
able and has enough to lve upon, let them please them.
selves,---you can't bring everybody to the same standard of
sense and enjoyment."
"I wish everybody was brought to your staidd~  f
-6

° ,*  ,i Y 4
f:   +


122             DOLLARS AND CENTS.
sense, my dear. Well-But whom shall I ask? I don't
even know where the man lives,-and I'm sure it is not my
fault if we have any mutual friends."
"Go over to the Moon and see Captain De Camp," said.
Mrs. Howard.
"Yes I suppose I may as well go to the Moon as any.
where. But De Camp-he hasn't got another furlough, has
he ?"
"O yes papa," said I,-" he has been here twice."
"The deuce he has!.-I am well set to work, certainly."
"But papa!" exclaimed Kate as he reached the door,
"you mustn't tell Captain De Camp why you want to
know about Mr. Freeman,-you must be very careful."
"I shall say first that Stephanie's going to marry him,--
after which I shall inquire if he is a respectable man. Do
you think I am a fool, Kate ?"
"No papa, but"-.-...,
"Well my dear, if I can't deal with Captain De Camp it'sa
a pity. You needn't wait dinner for me-i shall stop at
the Bird's Nest."
"But stay," said Mrs. Howard-" you must find out
where Mr. Freeman is, as well as who he is,-he may be
staying at the Moon again, and then you must call upon.
him and invite him over here."
My father stopped and stood irresolute.
"No doubt he is there !-it's the rallying point for all the
satellites of this region. I wish he was in Egypt !"
There wassuch a mixture of the undecided, the ludicrous,
and the dismayed in my father's face, that we all burst out
laughing.
"Take care or that child will hear you," he said.
"She has gone out," said my stepmother. ",But why
does this annoy you so ?  If it were Kate, indeed"-
"Kate !"interrupted my father,-and as if words could
no further go, he quitted the room and left us to laugh at
} our leisure.
1  The afternoon was just ending when Mr. Howard re-
'turned.
" Well!" he said as he sat down, "I ought to have come
back luminous after such a sojourn in that precious planet ! ~
"Did you see Miss Caffery, papa ?" said I.

DOLLARS AND CENTS.            123

"Good Miss Caffery !" said my father, his face unbend.
ing, "she half persuaded me out of my ill-humour,-half
convinced me that if people could be happy without any
thing to make them so, it was none of my business.
"And what said Miss Bain?" inquired my stepmother
"Miss Bain said that the very best thing you-g people
could do-at least," said my father checking himself, " she
said sundry foolish things which I need not repeat. Do
we have any tea to-night ?-or are we to live upon laugh.
ing ?"
"But papa," said Kate composing her face, "you haven't
told us about Mr. Freeman ?"
" What about Mr. Freeman ?"
"Why all about him,-what you have heard and seen.
Stephanie will come down when the tea-bell rings, and then
you will have no chance."%
" Well," said Mr. Howard again and reseating himself,
"I went to the Moon and I saw Captain De Camp-and
Mr. Freeman---of course. And Mr. Freeman had the
sense (which I didn't expect) to take himself off. I reckon
he was afraid of me. And the Captain was unusually lucid
in his answers. So I learned without much difficulty
Mr. Freeman has survived a precious childhood; t
rests his knowledge of the State's prison solely on inform
tion and belief; Ithat roguery and riches are in the future
tense with him; ahd that to hinder as much as possible
his pursuit after both, 'he has fallen desperately in love
with Miss Holbrook-quite head and ears, Iassure you sir.'
If I could imitate the concluding laugh, my dear, you would
have a fair presentation of the whole. Kate and Grace
what are you laughing at ?"
"Only at the presentation papa. And what did you
say ?"
a.I? 0 I said, ' Ah indeed !'-and 'you are sure sfr '-
and finally rushed about after the man himself to tellhim
of my joy that he was not an escaped convict, and to ask
him here to dinner to-morrow."
" And he will come ?"
"Come !-he would have followed me hom. to-night-i i
hadn't looked rather cross, I believe," said m  r.
" But you must not look. cross;' said my laot

'

'            7F     T                       r      '
Ss s,
{                  ...
s
,"
i4tr +-N                                                  ,
3s   1  , ,NS ziF
ryi"'S           , '       '                                          1,  ( 4 v

0


DOLLARS AND CENT.

Think of that poor child upstairs, and don't take the edge
off. her happiness."
"Tut ! my dear-if the sight of Mr. Freeman don't
take the edge off it's quite out of my reach. But poor
child ! as you say;' and she's a good child too; and I love
her for her father's sake as well as her own."
So he did. No remark that was even doubtful in its
bearing was suffered to reach Stephanie's ear ; and there
was a kindness in his tone that brought tears to her eyes,
when he said,
"Well Stephanie my dear, your old friend Mr. Freeman
dines with us to-morrow, so I hope you will make yourself.
very agreeable. And by the way," he added, " I told the
two ladies that we should be glad of their company."
"That is just what we were wishing !" said Kate and I'
together.
It so happened that Caddie Me In-the only specimen
of womankind who, then inhabited our kitchen-knew about
as much of the mysteries of flour and spice, as she did of'
botany and Epicurus. Therefore on that eventful morning,
which, as Stephanie expressed it, "would bring a coolness
among the members of our family," Kate and I rolled up
durasleeves and "went but," as the Scotch say ; for we had
declared that Stephanie should play visiter, and see neither
Charlotte nor Souffl6 till they were on the table.
I was 'busily engaged before the kitchen window, intro-
dcucing ladies' fingers to the most intimate acquaintance.
with the Charlotte mould ; and Kate in the shade of the
wall sat quietly mixing an odoriferous compound ; when
a quick, frosty step made me look up,-and there, just be-,
fore my open window, stood Squire Brown. Since our first.
coming to Glen Luna the Browns had sent frequent mes-'
sages that they meant to call upon us, but themselves never,
camer-this was the first time a Brown foot had approached
ourlhouse.
The present apparition was a little old man-or he
would have been old if he hadn't been jolly-whose roll-
about body sat rather insecurely upon his little roll-about
legs ; whose coat was snuff-colour, and his trousers a compro-
mise between pantaloons and small-clothes. His hat was
broad-brimmed, a whip'flourished in one hand, and his little

i4;

;;t,,
.; .
.

DOLLARS-AND    7E TS.ig
sharp eyes were erideavouring to see from the bright open
air into our kitchenr-of course dark by contrast. Perhaps
an occasional waft of maraschino may have quickened these
efforts.
"Ah, my dear !" said the Squire, "how d'ye do ?-busy,
eh ?"-here he gave himself a little twist and peered more
anxiously than ever,-" how's your father? well, eh? and
the rest of you ?"
"Quite well sir, I thank you."
"Well my dear," with a turn of the head that convinced
me he knew where Kate sat and was trying to see her; "well
my dear, has your father got through haying ?"
"O yes sir, long ago."
Long ago ! eh,--well that's good. D'ye think now-.
you're his data ain't you ?"
"Yes sir."
Dye think your father could let me have Mr. Barring-
ton for a couple of days? I've got a field of grass down
and my man's taken sick."
"I don't know sir, I'll tell him when he comes home."
"He's out, is he?"
"Ye sir.
"D'ye know where he's gone my dear, eh?"
"To Mr. Collingwood's I believe, sir."
Farmer Collingwood's-.that's out' of my way," said the
Squire, again nearly oversetting ray gravity and his own,---
"fine young man his son'is, ain't he ? Well my dear you'll.
tell him--d'ye know my name now, eh ?"
"I believe so, sir.
Yes I guess so too-and harkye, my datas have been
coming down here this long time,,only it's 'so far you see,
they haven't made it out;-but they'll come very soon.
Good-day my dear."
Howawelaughed!
"He didn't see you Kate, after all !"
"No; but I wonder what he means by 'so far,'-I'm
sure they go ofteiai enough, to the Moon, which is much
further."
"Ifthey're like him we needn't care," said I,-" dido
hear him say 'datais'                             o
"I suspect they are modernized copies," said Kate: "at

s  4X'. j'x

Y     '4.'           a
' f '4 =i= 1   .
r,11      'R'    nl     tr'','k    rn

. rta':


DOLLARS AND CENTS.
least according to Mrs. De Camp. I wonder papa did not
ask them here to-day,-it would have been only polite."
"He did: I heard him telling mamma this morning."
"Then I haven't made enough soufe!" said Kate despair-
ingly
90they're not coming to dinner-only to tea and ice-
cream."
"Ice-ream ?" said Stephanie-" that sounds pleasant.
Do I look quite fiery ?" she added advancing into the kitchen.
We both turned and looked at her.
Pretty, very pretty she always was, and that day espe-
cially. Excitement had given even neck and arms a slight
reflection of her pink dress, but the prevailing tint was kept
down by her gracefully arranged black hair; while in her
eyes the expression-half dance half defiance-which usual-
ly shone there, was softened by other feelings-the new
and the timid. I even fancied that her eyelashes were
wet, and that tears lay hid behind them as she returned our
earnest gaze.
earWell Katie, well Gracie," she said at last, "what are
you thinking of?"
I saw the sigh that might not be heard, as Kate answered,
"I was thinking of you dear,-how nice you look !"
"Nice !-And not fiery ?"
"Not a bit."
"And do you say so too, Gracie ?"
"I don't know-I was thinking your neighbourhood might
be pleasant to-to anything very cold," said I inexplicitly.
Stephanie laughed, and saying "she wasn't wanted in the
kitchen, then," she left us.

i*

-1tiTT
"iK
l  ^t
y 1 i ,
b
{+LT
fi -rAtt° '
4}
"h}t
,r :

DOLLARS AND CENTS.
CHAPTER XIV.
The Doctor now obeys the sunmons,
Likes both his company and commons;
Displays his talents, sits till ten
Next day invited, comes again.

4    1

CowPER. (Horace.)

W   ELL might my father say "Good Miss Caffery !"-our
hearts echoed it many times in the course of that
afternoon. The mere sight of her would have soothed
most people; and her white dress, so delicately ruffled,
was enough to unruffle every one else. Her tone of voice
too was so pleasant, so feelingly gentle, that .one was
touched as well as interested by what she said. Every
word and look spoke the eminent humanity of her nature,
but said as plainly that it was humanity purified. I never
saw her now without thinking of Mr. Collingwood's words,
"a lovely and well-developed christian character,"-they
helped me to understand what before I had only felt. It
was like being shown the secret spring whence came some
indefinable freshness of the atmosphere.
I do not mean that we were all out of humour on that
eventful day, but there was some embarrassment or anxiety
with each one-now and then with my father a little
moodiness. But Miss Easy seemed to smooth away
everything,-no one could be in such a ray without for the
time at least, assuming its colour.
Miss Avarintha was as usual peculiar: very unwilling
that things should go on quietly, and not having the least
idea how to put her finger in with judgment. Mrs. De
Camp was fully of talk ;, the Captain very bland and benign;
and Mr. Freeman (when he. thought my father was think-
ing of some one else) very happy and comfortable. He

10
j '         yam,

rYi   r                                    t, "^ ;;,
ryr                       r r
i                            '
S y.
It+i                                  '  1 St
;a
;n a.r

11        11


DOLLARS - AND CENTS.

f
+
i ;   .
.s"
';;
,pry
r
,*  '
.i'3
.s    , .  "

+ ,

'ire

sat basking in the light of Stephanie's pink dress, far be-
yond all disturbance from trifles; but Miss Holbrook her-
self was well disposed to give the aforesaid finger a rap
over the knuckles every time she encountered it; and if
she sometimes forbore in deference to Kate's look of re-
proof, it was only to utter an energetic aside about "the
Bain of her life."
In the evening when my father and I were walking
about and joining everybody by turns for the sake of vari-
ety, Mr. Collingwood came in; and like us took a promenade
ticket. Miss Bain had just crossed the room to make an
attack.
"Where do you reside now sir ?" she began. "At least
I don't mean now-of course you are at the Moon and
likely there to continue, I suppose, for some time-but
where have you been residing ?"
"Really ma'am," said Mr. Freeman returning from the
antipodes, "I can hardly say,-I did live in New York
until the last six months."
"And since then?"
"Since then," he replied, laughing partly at his question-
er and partly at what he was going to say,-.-" Since then
ma'am, my head' has been in the condition of a family in
moving time-the house in one place and the furniture in
another,-of course my existence has been somewhat com-
pounded and intermediate."
"'Who of all the world should meet
One summer's day, but Love and Reason,'
said my father with a smile.  "That moving state, Mr.
Freeman, always brings two evils,-the house wants settling
and the furniture wants mending."
" I wish no delay about either, sir," said Mr. Freeman
with great frankness.
"But Mr. Howard," said Miss Bain insinuatingly, " that
is a lady's province,-you would not expect a gentleman
to undertake it."
"My expectations are but limited, ma'am, from either
man or woman."
"What a singular idea !" said Miss Bain.
" You will find, it a very plural idea," said my fathe

i
iS x  l
a
,s
'- L Y
1
r

129

"Mr. Freeman-I can't ask you of course. What do you
say, Mr. Rodney ?"
"Not quite that, sir."
"See there now, what it is to want experience !" said
my father, "where's the use of expecting uncertainties ?"
"Isn't there an expectation of hope ?"
"And a disappointment of hope too, I'm thinking.
You'll come out of that delusion my good sir, unless your
charitable eye-glass gains all the magnifying power that
your mental eye will lose."            J.
"And what is to hinder ?" said Mr. Rodney smiling,-
"why shouldn't it, Mr. Howard?  Charity is not so much
needed till delusion fails."
"I'm sure I can't tell why it shouldn't-I don't know
how it is with you, but there's a considerable degree of
perverseness that will always hinder it in me."
"1Grains of allowance, sir," said Miss Bain, picking up
an end of the subject.
" And a little soil for them to grow in. I've thrown out
plenty of 'grains of allowance' that came to nothing,-so
you see my stock has decreased. I don't mean to expect
anything from anybody in future."
"1Except from that one person in the window ?" said Miss
Easy smiling. "Yes sir, you have been looking at her the
whole time to disprove your words, yes."
"Poh,"-said Mr. Howard, laughing and bringing his
eyes back.  "I beg your pardon Miss Easy, but some-
times one knows what one cannot see. 'Love all, trust a
few."'
"With a little trust to the all, and a very special love to
the few," said Mr. Rodney~ smiling, "I will subscribe to
that, Mr. Howard."
My father smiled too, a little-half to himself, as it
were.
"I don't know whether I must put her among the few,"
he said --" I suppose in reality Kate is just like that little
intruder over there.  Now Grace thinks all the world of
that cat, and yet would not for all the world trust her near
the open closet."
"not it's her nature, papa," I said.
reciioly, my dear."

DOLLARS AND CDNT&amp;

I
1                '
s "' .M "+
Y.        -     r
~           . Ff
1    , Y                    -,,f    '   ,
-_      ':.ac


130            DOLLARS AND CENT'
"But it isn't Kate's."-
"What ?" said my father laughing-" to steal into the
pantry ? Which one is the cat going to now, Gracie ?"}
I turned round to watch her progress. She took a good
look at me and then marched off towards the window.
"Does she like Miss Kate better than you ?" said Mr.
Coflingwood smiling.
" Ono, but she wants to get. on somebody's lap,--if I
had been sitting still she would have come right to me.=
She likes Kate very much though."                              A
"How perfectly graceful!" said Captain De Camp, waving-
his hand as he surveyed the advancing felina; "there can-
not be anything more easy and natural than a cat's motions
-every one of them." And dovetailing two fingers into
the breast of his closely buttoned coat, he looked on com-
placently-.
Purrer-purrer seated herself in front of Kate, winked
once or txice byr way of recognition, turned her head,
winked once at me, and then with a light spring she reached
the desired resting-place.
"My dear Kate !" said Miss Bain in an earnest voice,
and walking towards the scene of action, "how can you{
bear that creature !"
"Why I like her very much, ma'am," said Kate, while
she stroked the pleased little pussy.
Mr. Collingwood and I involuntarily approached the
window-.
"But you shouldn't like her-I can't bear to see you
waste your young affections on cats."
Kate smiled-" I should not give it that name Miss-
Avarintha,-mayn't we apply to one sort of charity what
Bunyan says of the other?
' A man there was, (though some did count him mad,)
The more he cast away, the more he had.'n
" Charity !" said Miss Bain-" you are getting very, far
from the cat."
"And into most classical regions," said the Captain
laughing-" No wonder the cat don't dare to follow'!"
" Well !" said Kate, looking up with a mingling of dis-
pleasure at his and trust in her own position, so bright that

DOLLARS AND CENTS.            131

it quite dazzled the Captain; "and how are they unclassi-
cal? or contemptible sir ?"
"Contemptible !" said the Captain,-" I really did not
mean to go quite so far; but you know Bunyan himself
was a very low man."
"And therefore his work, being what it is, stands all the
higher."
"But how is it classical, Miss Kate ?" said Mr. Colling-
wood.
"I cannot undertake to prove my assertion as well as
defend it," she said laughing and colouring,-"1 suppose
one of the things Sir Thomas More would have said
' women had better not do,' may be to argue with superior
information. I refer you and Captain De Camp to Macau-
lay, Mr. Collingwood, and you can dispute the point with
him at your leisure."
"Which is one of the things men had better not do,"
said he smiling.
"But just see you all this time petting the cat !" said
Miss Bain,-" wasting your affections, as I say."
"0," said Kate, "I don't think one has a measured
amount, which must lose in depth what it gains in
breadth."
"Nor I."-
"My dear Mr. Rodney," said Miss Bain, "what can you
possibly know of- the matter ?. Bless me, I ought to know
a little about cats ! my aunt had thirty of them. Now
what do you think of that ?"
"I should think she kept no dogs."
"And I that she had no mice," said Kate.
"Why Miss Avarintha," said I, "her house must have
been like the one in the fairy-tile, where the two green-,
eyed cats kept watch over the princess."
"And the eight and twenty relieved guard I suppose,
said the Captain laughing.
"Bless me !" was all the comment upon this classical
allusion. "Bat why don't you have prettier pets ?-a
canary or chickens ? I like to see a lady encompassed by
chickens."
  "Not in the house ?" said Kate smiling-" and I have no
time for canaries and like cats better."

.IC


40

1%.            DOLLARS AND CENT.
"O so do I, Miss Avarintha! a great deal better !"
"O you of course.-I never saw such girls,-just per-
suade one to like a thing and you've persuaded both. You
needn't smile, Mr. Rodney,-it's true."
"My smile meant no contradiction, ma'am."
"It's not a good thing, in my judgment," said the lady
with a new interpretation and answer. "Do tell me now
Kate-Miss Stephanie-I've seen so little of her-is she
always of your mind? or has she tastes of her owni' .
"Of her own," said Kate, trying hard not to smile.
"And have you no tastes of your own, Miss Gracie ?"
said Mr. Collingwood smiling quite.
"Indeed she has," said Kate.
"So I thought."
"Take care," said Miss Bain, "this is a dangerous at-
mosphere,---a person cannot remain in it long and be dis-
similar."
"I'm sure that is a blessing to society," said the Captain
bowing.   " But Miss Howard, speaking of tastes-is it
permitted to ask what one renders this ice-cream so very
delicious ?"
"I believe,--nothing very uncommon is it ?"
" Uncommon on our side of the lake. Henderson and I
were trying to pronounce upon the flavour of Mrs. Shel-
ton's, and we decided .that it 'wath pomatum' Miss. Kate,"
said the Captain laughing.
" Pomatum!" exclaimed Miss Bain,-"what a dreadful
idea! You don't really mean Captain De Camp that Mrs.
Shelton flavours ice-cream with pomatum ?"
"Not at all, .ma'am,-I only mean that this was as near
as we could come to it."
"I should think it would have affected you most un-
pleasantly !"
The Captain's present affection was quite ecstatic.
"O that was only because gentlemen don't know things
by their right names," said Kate.
"Pretty sweeping charge that, against 'superior infor..
nation' !" said Mr. Rodney.
"I assure you Miss Kate you would have thought I knew
the name of one thing, if you had tasted that ice," said the*
Captain.

DOLLARS AND CENT.

133

"I heard of a gentleman once," said Kate, -"who asked
a lady if her blancmange was flavoured with eye-water."
"That is a good idea !" said the Captain,-" I will in-
quire about- the pomatum."
But Kate disapproved that with a very decided little
shake of her head.
"Why not, Miss Kate ?" said Mr. Collingwood smiling,
-" how are men to learn if they may not ask questions ?"
"They may-if they will only ask in the right way,-
and when they really need information," she said with a
look that half applied her words. "But the gentleman I
referred to transgressed the first rule,-he should have in-
quired simply what the flavour was. I hold that it isn't
right to suggest disagreeable ideas to people."
"But," said Captain De Camp, "what are 'disagreeable
ideas' ?-for instance," he added laughing, "is pomatum
reprehensible ?
.. "Very decidedly, if applied to ice-cream that I am eat-
ing ;-if it is only indefinite ice that I never saw, it does
not so much matter."
"But don't you think Katie-" said I--
" What?".
"Yes let's have your opinion on the pomatum question,
Miss Grace," said the Captain.
" Not much of an opinion sir, but I was thinking it
wouldn't be pleasant to have disagreeable things said even
about other ice-cream, for one might get such an associa-
tion with it in general. I shouldn't want to think of po-
matum every time I eat ice."
"Nor I, I'm sure !" said the Captain laughing.  "Your
remark is quite just, Miss Grace, and proves what your
sister said that you do not always think alike."
"I only said it did not matter so much," said Kate.
"But we do always think alike !" I said,-"only our
tastes are a little different sometimes."
"You are drawing very nice distinctions, Miss Gracie,"
said Mr. Collingwqod while the Captain laughed.
"Distinctions about what ?" said Stephanie,-coming to-
wards us.
" We were talking of things agreeable and things disa-
greeable," said Kate.

11


134           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"Dividing them off? In which class do you put this
interminable noise of katydids? I maintain that nobody
can like it, and Miss Easy maintains that she does."
"Ah ?" said the Captain.
"But where have you put Mr. Freeman ?" said Miss
Bain. " Where is he ?"
" I'm sure I don't know, ma'an," said Stephanie,-" Mr.
Freeman is not under my thumb to put anywhere. If he
were, he would find himself among things disagreeable."
"Why my dear Miss Holbrook !" said Miss Avarintha,
while Stephanie enforced her words by a slight pinch on the
back of Kate's neck.
" He is talking to my mother," said Captain De Camp,
"but I suppose there is such a class as things agreeabler,
Miss Kate?  Freeman! face about, will you !
" Now," continued the Captain, "I am going to try how
much he knows about names."
" Come up and be questioned Mr. Freeman," said Mr.
Collingwood as he smilingly made room for him in the
circle.
" Whether I will or no?"
" Whether you will or no-and by a gentleman whose
knowledge of the subject dates back some fifteen minutes."
" But take some cake first (by your leave, Miss How-
ard,)" said the Captain handing him the basket. "Now
what is it flavoured with ?"
" This ring ?" said Mr. Freeman, as after taking a small
bite he collared a digit with the remainder.
"It isn't a ring, Mr. Freeman," I said.
"1What is it then ?"
"It's a jumble, sir."
"Well that is certainly making a jumble of plain En-
glish! I advise you to remodel your cook-book, Miss
Grace."
The "cook-book" was lost upon the gentlemen, but Kate,
And Stephanie were fain to pat the cat.
"But what does it taste of?" said the Captain.
"Sugar--" said Mr. Freeman, as if he felt upon sure
ground.
"Bless my spurs !" said the Captain,-" but what else ?"
sureue I don't know-the thing I like best about it, is

the sugar. Yes, I think there is'something else-something
I have tasted before too ;-it is isinglass !" said Mr. Free-
man decidedly.
There was no standing this,-the Captain led off and we
all had to follow. Even Mr. Howard and the astonished
mover of our mirth joined in, they knew not why.
"Captain De Camp has been testing Miss Howard's
opinion that men don't know everything," said Mr. Rodney.
" Is that all you're laughing at !" said my father,--" bless
me, I am told that every day of my life."
"O papa !" said Kate.
" I didn't say by whom, Katie,-maybe it's myself."
" But I don't understand," said Miss Easy's soft voice.
"Yes sir, who is it that does not know everything ?"
"It's an abstract proposition proved upon me, I believe
ma'am," said Mr. Freeman.
" Your lesson is but a quarter of an hour behind ours,"
said Mr. Rodney.
"Mr. Freeman," said Kate getting up and opening a
cabinet, "did you ever see these shells?--papa would tell
you that they are worth the trouble."
" And will you tell me the same thing, Miss Kate ?" said
the Captain.
" No sir," she answered with light gravity, "I know too
little of them and of you,-your taste may not lie that way."
The taste of several persons seemed to lie that way just
then, and we had. full occupation as show-women. Kate
laughingly set out a cold collation of ".olives" and "pigs,"
"poached eggs" and "thorny woodcocks," which Captain
De Camp immediately declared he should choose,-" he
went in. for utility."
"What do you say to a 'weaver's shuttle' then ?" said
Stephanie,-" don't you call that useful ?"
"Not to my taste, Miss Holbrook."
"Well here is the ear of King Midas,-and more useful
still"-
But Kate took the shell out of her hand with a glance
which Stephanie did not see fit to disregard.
"What is that, Miss Kate ?"
" This. one ?" said she taking up another. "It is Venus's
comb,--don't you wish to inspect such an antique ?"

DOLLARS AND OENTS.             135


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

'DOLLARS AND CENTS.

137

"By no means !" he said' with a gesture of refusal--
"everything shows best in its proper place."
The shell was immediately restored to the cabinet, and
Kate bestowed her attention upon Mr. Freeman.
" Here is a perspective shell for you, Mr. Rodney," I
said,-" and this Argonaut-isn't it beautiful? '
"I wonder where all the shells get their names !" said
Captain De Camp,-"such as this for instance."-
" Why this must have been called after the Argonauts"
-I said,-" because it is such a good sailor."-
"The Argonauts !" said Captain De Camp. "And pray
who were they, Miss Grace ?"
"Why you know, sir," said I, as if he wanted to find out
the depth of my knowledge-" they were the men that
rowed the Argo-the ship in which Jason went after the
Golden Fleece."
"I don't know anything about it,"-said the Captain
frankly,-" I am ashamed to say, Miss Grace, that I have
never read those old stories."
"Papa told me,"-I said.
"But what is this shell ?" said he helping himself. " "Miss
Holbrook this is the one you were going to show me."
"That's the most useful shell in the case," remarked Mr.
Freeman.
" Well it's one of the prettiest. I don't care much for
quirlicues."
"You don't like that"-said Mr. Freeman,-"you
wouldn't have one in your room for a dollar."
" I tell you I like it particularly," said the Captain with
an approving and contemplative twirl of his moustaches.
" If ever I buy any shells I shall begin with this one."
"I wonder who knows the names of things now !" said
Mr. Freeman with an air of injured innocence. "Why
man that is a razor shell!"
The Captain certainly looked posed for a minute, but
then he laughed as if he had received an extraordinary com-
pliment. As for Mr. Freeman,-this tturn, together with
his previous good-nature, so won upon my father that at
parting he gave him a most cordial invitation to come as
often as he could. Which invitation the gentleman cer-
tainly complied with.

CHAPTER XV.
He must be very wise that can forbear being troubled at things very trouble-
some.-T.LLOTSON.
"  THAT can that light be ?" I exclaimed askive passed
Y   the hall-window on our way to bed. It'was late
at night, but some happy combination of circumstances and
wakefulness had allowed me to sit up with the rest; and
we now stood all together looking out and wondering. A
steady red light shone to the north of us, beyond interve-
ning woods and hills, deepening and fading, now clouded
and now clear, as smoke and flame chased and displaced
each other. In town, so far off a fire would have fixed no
eye that was not quick to appreciate the beautiful; but
here there were no visions of warring streams of water-the
fire burned on in solitude; and instead of bells and rattling
engines, there was the soft whirr of a multitude of insects.
The flickering light seemed a more wild and fearsome thing
in that silence, and we looked with a not untinged admira-
tion. Perhaps ,men never feel what a weaker and more
timid nature feels so readily,-that undefined fear with
which myst ry can invest even a beautiful object. My
father had been called 'to Baltimore by the illness of his
brother; and we left alone, felt all the influences of a sim-
ple but unexplained phenomenon.
" Wise people we are !" said Stephanie at length,--" of
course it'sjust a house at Wiamee !"
"Wiamee is more to the west, and the houses are too
small to make such a light."
"Not too small to burn up, are they ?" said Stephanie,-
and it may be the whole village ; you can't tell west from
est in the dark."
"But it does not spread nor move on," said Kate,-" it
burns steadily in one place-there went somebody's roof!"

f

136

.:


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

There was a sudden deadening of the light, then it burned
furiously for a few minutes, and then seemed to die gradu-
ally out.
" Exit,"-said Stephanie turning front the window; "it
was probably one of Mr. Collingwood's favourite farm-
houses, so if we go to bed at once Kate, I don't doubt
but we shall dream that we saved all the furniture except
,, tumbler."
"Here's Misther Barrington ma'am," said Caddie as
she brought in the second plate of muffins next morning.
"Mr. Barrington ? does he want anything ?"
"He does ma'am."
"I have no idea," said Stephanie helping herself to a
muffin, "that I could ever have learned the style laconic, if
I had been fifty times a Spartan."
"Shew him in here, Caddie," said my stepmother, and
our factotum presented himself.
"How aresyoueEzra ?" she continued, "have you got
quite well?"
"'m pretty smart, ma'am," said Mr. Barrington with a
strong emphasis on the pronoun.
"And Mrs. Barrington, and the children?"
"Couldn't be no better," said Ezra,-" if all folks was
as quiet and well-behoven as they be, the world would go
on a sight straighter."
"Intimate connection between mankind's obliquity and
that of the earth !" said Stephanie.-" What's going crooked
Mr. Barrington ?"
But that gentleman, after the involuntary compliment to
his family, had relapsed into silence; and stood with raised
brows eyeing the carpet as if it held the key to some prob-
lem.
The look and attitude were a little startling.
" Is anything the matter ?" said Mrs Howard.
"No ma'am,"-said Ezra hesitating, "nothing partic'lar
-only the mill's destructionized."
" Burned down !" cried we all, taking a short cut to the
truth.
"Jus' so," said Mr. Barrington looking up in some sur-
prise ; "who yelled ye ?"

P

138

i
.
.  -
,,-y
°;
t'
f,
,
3
a
,
i
i
,
f-
1
S
' i.
k..
.T
V
_
s%
f
. .
M
i1;
1
4
_\
}
i
\ y'
ii
I
"?
{
1

t
yr

139

"Nobody-the light,"-said Kate drawing her breath,--
"Dear mamma don't look pale about it !-how did it hap-
pen, Ezra ?"
"'Well, I reckon there was sunthin conbustible sot next
to it," said Mr. Barrington, as if he had worked his way to
that conclusion.  There warn't no one into it, so it must
ha' been done outside."
"Not on purpose ?" said Mts. Howard.
If it warn't a purpose nothi ever was,-the mill didn't
burn up of its own head, Im clear."
"That can't be-it's some carelessness,-nobody would
-set it on fire."
" Well ma'am," said Ezra slowly, ,they tell me hearsay
ain't evidence in a court of judgment, and I s'pose guessing
ain't ho more,-otherways I'd get that Simpson togq up,
first thing."~
"He could not have had any hand in it," said Mrs.
Howard.
"Couldn't hardly been no one else, ma'am. He's always
kep' a talking how our mill stopped his t water privilege'-
massy knows 'tain't much '.privilege' I'd give him, if
'twarn't in the water ! Why the Squire ain't an unfriend
in the county but him.".
"IY did not know he was one."~
"Like enough," said Ezra, "but most things can't be
known till afterwards. There's my woman said this morn-
ing she saw a dreadful big light off to Wiamee, and I yelled
her she was dreaming of the kitchen fire ; so she said
wouldn't it be wonderful if it was the mill, and I said
wouldn't it be wonderful if she had more sense. Howsever
I got tired and went to see, finally, and there it was all ashes
and burnt sticks. It took me right on a none-plush," he
added feelingly.
We sat silent for a while, not knowing what to say or
ask.
"But Mr. Simpson wouldn't have done such a wicked
thing-and for no'reason," remarked Mrs. Howard.
"1Folks don't stand about reasons for wickedness; com-
monly," said Mr. Barrington with a slight touch of disdain,
"or don't wait till they find good ones, anyhow. Mr.
Simpson's pretty nigh as fond of hard dollars as most men,

,

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

w
x.
'
;
:T
V
r,
r
;
i

"~
,:s'   '   , ,
:rj,,   h    i: _
4   ,
i; , i .
ray         +.
-t
.a


DOLLARS AND CENTS.            141

140           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

and the Squire'd ha' been certain to pick up some of hisn.
But the mil's burnt and no mistake, and I s'pose sunthin
ought to be done about it."
"1Nothing can be done till Mr. Howard. comes home
Ezra, unless you can find out who has done us this mis-
chief."
" Well, I guess likely," said Mr. Barrington, "but as to
finding out-the likest thing is when a man's got only one
enemy, that he's done it. Howsever, 111 look over the
Squirt's friends-if it don't do no good it can't do no harm,
and there's no telling where a blessing may light, as my
wife says."
And Mr. Barrington departed, with a face that said the
worst part of the business was over.,
The muffins came in unheeded.-
"Surely mamma," Kate began, "papa has not interfered
with anybody's rights ?"
"I know nothing about it my dear-some one has in-
terfered with his, most certainly: but for the rest we must
be in the dark till he comes home," she added sighing.
"It's very good he doesn't know of it !" I said.
"Won't you write to him mamma ?" said Kate.
" No, it's not best,-his head and hands are full enggh
now; and he ought not to leave his brother for any mill
that ever was built."
This was all true, and we acted upon it. But how does
a trouble swell when it is locked up ! how were we tried by
our own quiet endurance !
"It seems strange that such a thing should affect us so
nearly," said Kate.-" Just think mamma, two years ago
we should hardly have noticed it, and' now that mill seemed
to be our best hope of getting on."
"I should be sorry indeed if that seeming were reality,"
said Mrs. Howard, "and it depends upon circumstances,
Katie, whether 'to get on' be a blessing or a curse-some.
times the word is 'Back for thy life!'"
"1But Mrs. Howard !" said Stephanie-" how you do talk!
Look here," she added planting herself before her-" now
weren't you most troubled because of these girls ?"
"Yes," said my stepmother with a voice not yet un-
troubled, " but my dear child that does not prove me wise

/j

or clear-sighted,-perhaps it is for them that I ought to be
glad. Better lose the world than rest in it."
We were yet musing over the breakfast-table, when Cad-
die ushered in another visiter-Mr. Collingwood.-
" No ma'am, I can't sit down," he said, "I scarce ough t
to have come in so early ; but dear Mrs. Howard, will you
tell me in all frankness-,is there anything we can do for
you ?-my father would have come himself, but he was too
unwell."
"Thank him very much, and you too Mr. Rodney, but
I think there.is nothing : all we can do is to keep ourselves
quiet."
"Are you sure? I will see anybody and do anything
that you can think of use."
"Quite sure," said Mrs. Howard, answering his earnest
look with a smile that was withal a little tremulous--
"unless you will sit down andread us a lesson of patience."
"It would be to myself ma'am," he said,-" I am but an
unpractised learner.
"You see Mr. Collingwood," said Stephanie-who had a
great aversion to that silence when people feel too much to
speak-"there's nothing to be done but to build up the
mill and catch the burner; and, no disparagement to your
strength and. wisdom, you can't do either."
" Miss Stephanie," he said with a smile, "are you laugh-
ing yet ?"
" Only because I'd rather not cry,-one must do some-
thing, and Kate always says it's folly to be worried."
"I fear she has not persuaded herself of that," said Mr.
Rodney approaching her. -. "Miss Kate, are you thinking of
those blue mountains  "
She looked up to answer him, but .the recollection was
just one she could not bear,-heir eyes fell again.
"You remember what we were talking of?" he said very
gently-" that they are but like the rest of the world when
reached ? If we feel sure that our happiness cannot be
perfect in this life, wf should the less grieve over the things
that come to mar it. ' In the shadow of thy wings will I
riake    refuge, until these calamities be overpast !"'
"Bu she is only worried for papa," I said, "and because
mamma looked so grave."

4,


142

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"And you are troubled for her, Gracie ?-l wish I could
give you more than sympathy."
"That is the best thing we could have just now," said
my stepmother, "and if your time or exertions can do us
any good, Mr. Rodney, we will call for them."
There were indeed but few people to give us sympathy,
but they gave it in double measure. Miss Easy came to
us the moment she heard of our disaster, and with a face
of such quiet sorrow and concern, that our own brightened
immediately.
"Dear Mrs. Howard," she said, "could any one think
there were such wicked people in the world ?-after all the
difficulty you have had with that mill! yes ma'am, it really
surprises me."
"You'must not be troubled for us, my der. friend," said
my stepmother.
"Troubled !" said Miss Easy, her eyes filling to their
utmost capacity, "yes ma'am I will be troubled-yes.
What's the use of friends if they're not to be troubled for
each other? Yes ma'am, I. hope I am a friend. But how
do you all do ?-and poor Mr. Howard-what -will he
I hardly know-I almost dread his coming home."
" He will bear it well-he has a true christian spirit,"
said Miss Easy thoughtfully ; "but trials have their effect
nevertheless.  Though the promise stands' sure, 'there
shall no evil, befall them that trust in me:  And yet,"
she added sadly as she bent down and kissed my forehead,
"I cannot bear to see the weight over this child's eyes,--
yes ma'am, that grieves me more than anything."
How quick other eyes in the room answered to her
words!
"Papa will set it all right when he comes, dear Miss
Easy," I said; "and there will be no weight over my eyes
then."
"1Nobody could give a better definition. of supporting
faith," said Miss Easy with another kiss,-"1eve so should
we trust our heavenly Father-'it will be all sft right and
there will be no weight over our eyes then.'-Der Mts.
Howard, that should make the weight sit lighter now."
"It ought and does."

DOLLARS AND CENTS.               143
"But can't you all come and stay with me till Mr. Iow-
ard gets back ? Yes ma'am, now do," said Miss Easy..-." it
would make me so happy."
"We must not do'it, even for that, dear Miss Easy,"
said my stepmother,-" he may come at any time, and
would. want to find us here."
"True," said Miss Caffery, "yes ma'am, you are always
right, and always think of' everything-yes. But I must
see you often somewhere-you can at least come for a few
hours,-yes, you must promise me that."
And we did.
My father came not for three weeks, and after each letter
we had a feeling of mingled' pain and pleasure,-that he
must so soon .know-that as yet he knew nothing. But
the appointed day. came, and with it Mr. Howard.
The moment we saw him on the walk, we all felt that he
had already heard the news,-not that there was exactly a
cloud on his face, but there seemed to be a slight drooping
of the head, a relaxing of the muscles, a want of the usual
alert resolution of his gait.; the very swing: of his umbrella
spoke of- disturbance ; and when he entered the house, his
greeting if not less affectionate was graver than usual.
Since we had lived at Glen Luna one difficulty had come on
the heels of another, and this new one was much the worse
for the long string which had gone before it.. Thoughts
took a far range, but our first words were simply,
"How is uncle Ned, papa ?"
"Somewhat better-not satisfactorily so to my mind,"
said Mr. Howard throwing himself into a chair. "Dear
me-this hot weather is -trying !"
The weariness of that long breath !
" One must not mind even trying things too much," said
my stepmother forcing herself to speak-with what effort
the voice told.
My father looked at her, and then looked out of the win.
dow.
"It won't do, 1(ary," he said,-" you never can imbue
my spirit with the quiet patience of yours. I declare! I
thought last night of David's words-' 0 that I had wings
Like ar dove,--then would I flee away and be at rest !"
" Not from us, papa ?" said Kate softly.

Ir

-r'
4 ,
1,
y F.
:'  ,  r
.,,
:           ; ,    .
A
t!
P
i j  . t
i
s
,.
c;
Y
t{« a
.+
L
y
pyd
N
,


a*
i
1r
F
t
1
r
gj}1
k   Y
3
b

144              DOLLARS AND CENTS.
"My dear child!"-he said, but her words had struck
deep,--through all the clouds of doubt, weariness and vex-.
ation, clear to the very springs of life and duty,-they rose.
at once, and after a few minutes my father breathed freer.
"When did you hear all this?" said Mrs. Howard.
" Yesterday.",                           "  ti
" You will not let it worry you papa? I said-" nothing
is so bad as that."
"It is hard not to be a little troubled Grae-the loss is
a very serious one of its kind. I would fain bear it sub-
missively." And then looking round at us he said, But
you must wear bright faces if you expectome to."
" Owe will papa," said Kate. tDo you think Mr. Simp-
son could have done this ? have you interfered with him in
any way ?"
" No more than I have with you, my dear; but I sup-
pose he thought my mill would deprive his, not of water,
but employment.Yes-I presume he did it, or got it
" But how could he-what right had he to interfere with
Syour mill?  Surely he couldn't take the law into his own
hands for any reason."
"He will find he has it on his hands," said Mr. Howard;
"  but my own rights are growing so very misty and unde-
fined, that I know but little about those of other people."
Alas we had the law on our hands too ! Suits and cross-
suits, and pleas and bills and demurrers,-money to be
paid for all. Dollars here for witnesses, and there for a
journey to some distant court; and again for a speech
which Mr. Howard said wasn't worth a pin. The war of
poor rights against rich injustice.
In 'the midst of all this pense and annoyance, some
pleasant things sprang up. a  e were sgrealy touched by
an offer from Stephanie of a=rt o  her own small fortune
towards the rebuilding of the  .    yill.
" My dear child !" said my father, "do you think I would
do such a thing?  I cannot tell you how it grieves me,
that I should be quite unable to add to what, you ant to
dBvide. Ioward," said Stephanie,~ "I feel as if it be-,
longed tyu   ,uhav had trouble andt expense enough

H

SI
1

r.t
=J
l"
't
u
r
pAp
}
i'-
r
c-
ew
IP
AtA
V;

DOLLARS AND CENTS.               145
with me--not to speak of the care and kindness which
cannot be paid for," she added tearfully.
"It is all paid for-with interest," said my father kissing
her, while we gathered round with glistening eyes,-"a and
you will want what you have my dear, depend upon it.
Come you must think a little of somebody else."
"If somebody else can't get along without my help,"
said she colouring slightly,'"he will never get along at all,
-so my conscience is clear there. But you, dear Mr.
Howard, have lost and suffered so much"-
"That I ought to know how to take care of other people.
You must let me do it for you as long as I can my dear;
it is a pleasure that I shall owe Mr. Freeman some ill-will
for depriving me of. ' No, 'I will not hear another word, and
here comes somebody in good time to receive them all.
Mr. Freeman I am very glad to see you, sir, though
Stephanie has just been persuading me that I ought to dis-
"Dislike me sir ?"
"You sir."
And yet you are glad to see me,"-said the gentleman.
" Then Miss Stephanie's eloquence must have failed-if she
could employ it in so bad a cause."
"She did employ it," said Mr. Howard gravely; "but
as she taught by precept and not example, all I learned was
to love her more than ever."
"fAnd if that lesson is not perfect sir, you know where
to find the example," was the smiling reply as Mr. Free-
man shook hands with us all round.
He had certainly improved since our first acquaintance-
or we had learned, to appreciate him. Without anything
very bright or extraordinary, he had a pleasant mixture of
good nature and good sense with a slight spice of pecu-
liarity,-not enough toelaugh at but with. Altogether you
felt sure Mr. Freeman would get on in the world, though
you never thought of his making.a stir therein. Stephanie
too had hnproved,.z~perhaps by the prospect of real life
before he; or as she said "of the arctic ocean"; and the
feeling that Mr. Freeman's house was tolerably glazed,
may have made her more tender of other people's windows.
So it was, that while her chance of happiness increased, our


146 -DOLLARS AND CENT.
uniwillingness to part company increased also; and at
length Mr. Freeman declared that he never came to the
house without feeling as if he were going "birdth-nethtimg."
The bird was fledged at length. Stephanie and Mr.
Freeman were married one fair day when the autumn was
showering gold leaves; and beneath a blue October sky
they went forth into the world to seek their fortune.

.Y   ,

DOLLARS AND CENTS.          147

CHAPTER XVL
The simmer is gane, when the leaves they were green;
And the days are awa that we hae seen;
But far better. days, I trust, will come again.
LADY MARY ANN.

"  TE shall have a lonely winter of it," said Miss Easy,
as she sat at our tea-table some two weeks after Ste-
phanie's departure,-" yes ma'am, we shall indeed."
"We shall," said Mrs. Howard, "it will take us some
time to get used to the change; but you,, Miss Easy ?"-
" Didn't you know that Mr. Rodney is going away ?"
"Mr. Rodney !" cried I.
"Not for the winter ?" said mamma and Kate.
"Yes ma'am, for the winter. Farmer Collingwood's
health seems even less good than usual, and nothing will
content Mr. Rodney but to have his father try a warmer
climate. So they are both going,"-and Miss Easy's voice
went with them.
"I am very sorry indeed," said Mrs..Howard.
"Yes ma'am, every one must be that,-we are all sorry,
yes; but I have always seen so much of him-and the Ber-
mudas are a long way off."
"Bermuda-do they go there ?"
"Yes; and what troubles me most, is, that I fear they can
ill afford the expense. TheFarmer I know thinks so, yes
ma'am; but Mr. Rodnewon'thear or allow a word of it.
So they go," she reate  ith a sigh, "the first of Decem-
ber."
"He should command my-purse,  if!ad one that wasn't
filled with other people's fingers," saidray father'coming
out of his brown study.:                ,
Miss Easy looked very mnuh concern&amp;

Ir  L       .,,

y '  ,
+t
Z
\  A+
V
,k
f
F
.'   g.

"
.,
..
:;'.
h
,


DOLLARS AND CENTS.           149

148            DOLLARS AND CENTS'.

" My dear sir," she said, "pray' don't think of such a
thing !-dear me, what have I said ! I am very sorry in-
deed, yes sir. But I never can get him to speak on the
subject-it's only my own notions, yes; pray don't think
of it again. I should have been wiser, but I thought you
were dreaming, as we say. Yes sir, I did indeed."
"You thought about right ma'am," said my father; "but
like most dreamers I was weaving a web of mixed truth
and falsehood, and your words were the nearest realities
that came to hand. But I must think of this matter,-I
must find out how it is ; and if he wants anything, I will
dispose of the other fingers somehow-he shall have it."
"My dear Mr. Howard! that is like you," said Miss
Easy,-" but now sir you mustn't do such a thing. If you
would be willing to act for me-if you should find what I
have feared, true; I have spare funds, yes sir,-at least I
think I could get them-and Mr. Rodney would never take
anything from me, but perhaps I might do it through you,
yes sir."
"No ma'am," said my father; "I will neither take credit
that does not belong to me, nor let you deprive yourself
of a single comfort if I can help it,-the business must be
managed some other way."
"It would be to give myself comfort," said Miss Easy
sighing, "if I could relieve that poor boy from what I fear
he has taken upon himself, and what I know is too much
for him."
" And what is that ?" said my stepmother.
"Earning money ma'am, in all times and ways,-yes
ma'am, I am sure he is not always studying,-I am sure he
is trying to provide for this journey. Why I can hardly
get sight of him."
"But what could he do-out here ?" said my father.
"0 I don't know sir-copying, and translating and
draughting,-he is good at everything. Why sir," said
Miss Easy with sparkling eyes, "he taught school in the
first place till he could prepare himself for college; and
then he paid his own way when there,-and his brother's
too, fordhat matter-so long as he would stay. And was
always at the head of everything too-though he spent
half of the study hours in hearing recitations. I suppose

he's ahead of every one now, for he has studied harder than
ever since he came -home,-too much for his health, I
know."
"I hope he will get as much good as his father, from the
journey," said Mrs. Howard.
" He don't want to go ma'am, not at all, for himself,-yes
ma'am, I think he looks very sober about it."
"Hush !-" said my father,-and Caddie opening the door
announced Mr. Collingwood. Sober he did look, or it might
be fatigued, but with no tinge of gloominess in either eye or
voice,-there never was a nature more absolutely without
it. Had the business of his life been to seek his own indi-
vidual pleasure, in the pleasantest way, Mr. Collingwood
could not have looked more free from doubt and discon-
tent.
I have been to see you Miss Easy," he said after the
first salutations;-" and Miss Avarintha told me you were
here,-so I thought my escort might not come amiss. I
haven't given you a chance to get tired of me lately."
" Nor us either, I am sure," said my stepmother,-" do
you think it necessary to excuse yourself for coming here
once a month?"
"No ma'am," he said smiling,-.-"it is not quite so long
since my last visit."
"But you ought to com  very often Mr. Rodney," I said
-" when we like to see you so much."
"And when it is so soon to be ended," said Mrs. How-
ard.
A grave bow, and a look where there was too much
feeling for a smile, answered both remarks; and after a
moment he said,
" Yes, very soon."
" How is your father to-night, Mr. Rodney ?" said Miss
Easy.
"Not well ma'am: I hope he will gain strength when we
are once off but I think the idea of the journey rather
fatigues him."
"But my dear sir," said my father, "why don't you go
at once ?-you ought have finished your journey by the first
of December, instead of beginning it. .Surely two gentle-
men need not be so long getting ready."


150             DOLLARS AND CENTS.
The deep flush which crossed Mr. Rodney's face while
my father spoke, seemed to confirm Miss Easy's words: it
was but a moment however, and then in his usual quiet way
he said,
"You are quite right Mr. Howard,-I am truly sorry
our decision was not made sooner."
"But it wants three weeks to December-why not set
off at once ?"
Again the flush, the slight hesitation; and then with a
smile came the answer.
"Nay sir, I have arranged to go on the first of Decem-
ber, and we must even wait till then. Miss Avarintha
would tell you that it is owing to my 'native obstinacy'."
. " How long shall you stay ?" said Mr. Howard abruptly
changing his ground.
'I cannot tell sir. If, as Dr. Revere thinks, the climate
should particularly suit my father's health, we may be
there long,-perhaps permanently."
"You don't mean, always, Mr. Rodney ?"
"Always is a long word Gracie," he said, smiling half in
spite of himself at my earnestness,-" I am sure I do not
wish to speak it in such a connexion."
"You haven't seen Bermuda yet," said my father.
" No sir."-
"Characteristically disposed of!" said Mr. Howard laugh-
ing,-" you won't even condescend to notice my insinua-
tion."
" What kind of a place is Bermuda, papa ?" said Kate.
"Really my dear I know very little about it, though I,,
have heard a great deal. But as people always praise what,
they do like, and slander what they don't, my knowledge
of Bermuda is simply geographical."
" And mine," said Mr. Rodney; "but if Ilive to come
back Miss Kate, you shall have at least such a one-sided
account as Mr. Howard refers to."
"Who takes care of Daisy Lea while you are gone ?"
asked my stepmother.
" Mrs. Crown and her nephew, for the present na'am."
". And Wolfgang ?"-said Kate and I togethier-..
" Wolfgang," said Mr. Rodney turning to us with a smile,

DOLLARS AND UENTS.             151-

IK'
' 4

"is to live at the Bird's Nest,-so he will be further than
ever from Purrer-purrer, Miss Gracie."
"Ah he will come here sometimes," I said, "and we
shall go to see him. How he will miss you Mr. Rodney !"
" Miss me ?-yes, a little,--I hope so, I should like to be
missed. And yet it is a selfish hope too," he said, as he
rose in obedience to Miss Easy's summons. "Strange,
that one should wish to give pain to one's friends !"
"But if you take away the power of pain Mr. rolling-
wood," said Kate, "the power of pleasure goes with it."
" And the power of usefulness too, in a measure," said.
my father,-" they are all interwoven."
"Then I will be as selfish as possible," he answered smi-
ling ; "'good night."
My father mused for a while after they were gone, and
then jumping up he said,
"1I shall just go out and waylay that boy, for I sha'n't
rest till I know the truth."
But at the end of an hour he came back with an unenlight-
ened face.
" And what is the truth ?" said Mrs. Howard.
" The truth is that Mr. Rodney is rather the best and
most unmanageable person in the world. I dashed into the
subject at once, according to custom, and without more than
half an apology ; but he either made up the other half, or
didn't want it."
"And did you get any satisfaction ?"
" Not a bit-except as I tell you as to his being a little
better than other people. He didn't attempt to deny or
remove my suspicions and inferences, but I could get no
further-he was as stiff as, buckram. Only he gave me
much warmer thanks than I deserved, and left me, I do
believe, with wet eyes."
How swiftly those three weeks sped away !-and we saw
but little of the friends that were to follow them. Even
when we all walked over to the Lea to visit once more its
kind master, he was so unwell that we were not admitted.
But he grew better after that; and on the last day of No-
vember Mr. and Mrs. Howard went again to see him.
It was Sunday afternoon;. and Kate and I sat alone in
our little tea-room, singing hymns,--going over with a

i f
I
t
:
,,


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

strange pleasure the bright hopes and anticipations which
we had no share in. One and another was finished, and at
last. that one-" I am bound for the kingdom," when we
became aware of Mr. Rodney's presence.
We had heard neither door nor step; but as our voices
ceased he came forward, shook hands with us silently, and
then seating himself by us, he said,
"'Bound for the kingdom'-dear friends are you indeed
that ."
We did not answer-we could not. The hymn had
wrought upon us both a good deal, yet in an indefinite, un-
fruitful sort of way ; but now with these applying words
came its full force,-duty, responsibility, privilege-all
neglected, seemed now all set before us,-all weighing us
down. What had we been singing-" bound for the king-
dom !"-and the intention had never entered our hearts!
Mr. Collingwood looked at us earnestly ; and perhaps he
read in the quivering lips and half-interrupted breath, the
negative to his question; for he added very gravely, and
yet with even more than his accustomed kindness and gen-
tleness,
"If not for it, then from it !
True! true !-and with bowed heads and weeping eyes
we gave silent assent to his words.
"There is no better description of a Christian's life," he
said presently,---" there can be no more perfect reply to
the trials of it, 'Bound for the kingdom,'-as a ship is
bound that even in adverse winds so sets her sails that she
is driven forward, or so casts anchor that she is not driven
back; and for that kingdom which is so beyond comparison
with all others, that there is no need of specification,-' the
kingdom' !-that is enough ! Enough for him too,-the
light that sheds one straight, undeviating line of brightness
over the restless sea-uneelipsed by the sun, unhid by the
cloud; that lures him to breast the waves, though trem-
bling, shuddering with their violence, yet still on! He is
homeward bound, and for the kingdom !"
Again he paused; and again did our hearts answer to
every word that came so warm, so energized from his: yet
we could not speak. As when the wind comes out dead
ahead, and checked, startled, the ship seems uncertain how

152

y.
ens'
y l
_ lyy
l}

DOLLARS AND CENTS.
to trim her shivering sails, so did we hesitate,--not from
doubt of the right, but from a mixture of bewilderment,
surprise and fear. Had we then been bound on a reef?--
from "the kingdom ?"
"Yes !" said Mr. Collingwood at length, as if he read
our thoughts; "for it or from it !-you cannot chooserbut
be one. Dear Miss Howard, dear Gracie, think of it!
bound from the kingdom! from its blessings, its rest, its
everlasting reward'!"
We were weeping bitterly; and for sometime there
was no word, spoken, except now and then one of counsel
or entreaty from Mr. Collingwood. But at length Kate
exerting all her self-command, looked up and thanked him
in a few earnest words for what he had said,-while I, whose
feelings were less under control, dared not trust my voice.
"God grant we may all sail on together !" he said sigh-
ing; "and to that shore where there can be no shipwreck."
And then taking a hid of each, Mr. Rodney parted from
us with the words of Samuel Rutherford,
"I shall rejoice to hear of your welfare, and that your
faces are up the mountain !"

Ir

:i, t


spa  ,
''1' f _  J l       5                   t+       7
ft
_yW
1   f
fr, iy

154

DOLLARS AND CENTS.
CHAPTER XVIL

The game of life
Looks cheerful when one carries in one's heart
Th' inalienable treasure.
COLERIDGE-

YES, that was a lonely winter. For our spirits had not
now     fulat fl tide which sweeps away slight obstructions,
sports with them, tosses them a one ide in a mask of its
own foam ;--how, the current had need of a clear channel.
We all -missed Stephanie's bright, unshadowed eye, Far-
mer Collingwood's morning visits, and the frequent sight
and hearing of Mr. Rodney.-so many of the visiters we
had left talked neither sense nor sympathy. And then
without any defined cloud the light of our fortunes and
prospects seemed declining; though as in the day's twilight,
we hardly realized the progress except when we looked
back. Things were changed. We were changed ourselves
-how much, from that first bright day when I came to
Glen Luna ! Ah me !-it was a necessary, inevitable change
-the young heart cannot keep its spring,-and yet it
makes mine ache now to think of it. I had not lost the
childish simplicity of hope and enjoyment, but upon it was
grafted a scion of real life, to which all fresh shoots of the
former must in time be sacrificed. And I was softly passing
from the brook to the river, and knew it not !
As the winter passed, we felt more and more the truth
of Mr. Rodney's words,-were more and 'more resolved to
follow them. We could have answered him now ;-yes,
we were "bound for the kingdom"!
There had been sundry new things done and begun in
-our neighbourhood : i( Time drove not in full career

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

,.t
]4,
z ¢¢
.A
.A
r  1

155

through that quiet seclusion, we yet saw the dust of his
chariot wheels. Surely if "there is no new thing under
the sun," it might almost be said, that in one sense neither
is there any old ! The very tree at the house door is not
to-day what it was last year ; and this other, behind which
the chimneys loomed up, unapproachable, now towers
above them, and throws its leaves and shadows upon the
roof beyond. The stone step which in all its rough new.
ness said "I have just come"; how lovingly the turf
closes upon its edge, how firmly the green tufts cling and
grow, even encroachingly. The rains and .the' dews have
bleached its grey, and loved feet have worn its hardness--
it is "an old inhabitant."
Shadows where there was sunshine-the wearing down of
what seemed unchangeable,--yes, such is Time'swork: but
here see his work too-the opening of       view that
before was hid,-a path for the light ti ha   dark forest
that seemed impenetrable.
Foremost among the changes--not in itself but in its
effect-was the death of Mr. Cary--the minister at Lake
End. He was succeeded by a man of strong mind and
body, with a will that spared neither, when they could be
of use,--and we could go to church once more. Then we
realized what we had been without. I never knew what
sermons were worth, till I heard them after those years of
privation.
.   tConsequent upon this came another comfort. It was
clearly our .duty to go to church, therefore it was a duty to
have bonnets and cloaks to go in; and little as Kate and 1ws
cared about dress, it was pleasant to feel free to go where
we wished, like other people.
Mr. Ellis was not the only new comer,--the McLoons
had settled in the neighbourhood, and we had Mrs. Willet
another old friends for prospective vis-a-vis at the Sulphur
spring. Yet from all these we turned with what pleasure
to the Bird's zNest !--Miss Easy was more beloved than
ever, and these novelties faded away by contrast. She
'always came to us as soon as she got a letter from Ber-
muda, to bring news and messages: always gave n co::m-
fort when it was most needed; aiid would sornetixes lay.

'/.                                       if,        '1 r 1
i                                            r:    l
r


156

DOLLARS AND CENTS. S

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

her hand sighingly upon my forehead, as if she feared the
weight. were there still.
father could not resolve to leave the mill in ruins all
the time the law suts were pending, but had set men to
rebuilki as fast as possible; though Mr. Barrington avowed
his belief that "Mr. Simpson could burn it down more
speedier than we could put it up." As yet however, there
had been no interference, but with the spring came nimble,
mischance" in another form.
I came down one Monday morning, when after several
days of warm, breaking-up rain, earth and sky looked their
loveliest, and found Mr. Howard putting on shoes that were
unmistakeably for out of doors.
"You won't have any time for pruning, papa," I said,
"breakfast is just ready, and here come mamma and Kate."
"Don't wait for me," said my father tying his shoe-
strings with needless energy.
"Why where are you going ?"
"To Wiamee creek."-
"To the mill!-so early !" said my stepmother,-" Oh
wait till after breakfast."
"There is no mill there, nor anything else that I know
of, but water," he answered; and then seeing our anxious
faces, he added in that tone of desperate calmness which
betrays the excitement it is meant to cover,
"These rains have brought a tremendous freshet, and
the mill is carried away."
How my heart sank !-and then in a moment I said,
"Dear papa, do not look so grave,-maybe it is not so
bad as you think-.",                         ..
"It's as bad as it can be, I fancy," said my father sighing.
"But do not look grave about it, still, papa," said Kate;
"perhaps it can be mended, if it is bad; and at all events
let us take things quietly."
"See that you set me a good example then," he said,
looking first at mamma and then at us.
We followed him to the door, and called out,
"Nowdon't stay long-come back and get some break-
fast, and ten you can, go again;' and he gave us one smile
that spgk% cf more tropible than even the cloud had done.
Silently we sat down and waited ; and the hearts to which ~

;;.
4
k
.
,/
1
T
..
)r
4
1

the birds sang songs grew heavy and inattentive, and the
brightening light of the sun seemed more and more uncon-
genial, until at last Mr. Howard returned. The damage
was not quite so great as t might have been-at jst it
could be repaired with dollars,-but where were the y be
had? There were some yet, my father said-he worljd
ways and means; and once in order, the mill would so'on
pay for itself. Would it ever do that? would it everbe iri
order ?-Both questions might be read in my stepmother's
face, but Mr. Howard heeded them not, and having talked
himself into at least temperate latitudes, he went off again ;
and we staid at home and talked our spirits down to
zero.-
And then of all days in the year, Mrs. McLoon came to
see us; and of all subjects of conversation, she hose the
mill. And in the pure thoughtlessness of wealth told us
how she had been riding past Wiamee, and had seen the
carried-off timbers,-and how she was amused ; and how
thye water had grouped them here and there,--and laughed
all the while at her own description, till we were in doubt
whether to cry or be angry. But, as says some French
paper,
Avec le 'Go HEAD,' qui personnifie en lui 'audace dans
l'entreprise, et le 'No MIND,' qui represent le courage dans
l'adversito, I' Amsricain di Nord accomplit des prodiges."-
My father had both principles in action. No loss, no
discou  ement could affect his practice: the head might be
weary.   arrangements, the mind sick of endeavours, yet
the   nd rarely stayed- its workings. Arrangements and
endeavours were made and forwarded as if "time was" had
come back to us; and if sometimesthe first brush of a dis-
aster would sweep before it even the will to do,-the calm
followed; and patience and faith-nerved energy came with
the thought,
"Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we
not receive evil?" .
Again men were set to work at the mill, and then,;1yT1i
father got his witnesses together, and went to att nd one
of the Simpson trials. To no purpose,-the trial was put
oEy
"It is very vexatious, isn't it papa ?" said Kate.

I

C
ryp
k
J

157

'i                    _                     .,


I58

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"Trying enough-and expensive enough too, that's the
worst ofit."
"But this won't hinder your building up the mill ?"
"Hinder it completely. If the whole affair was to be
settled in a few weeks, I thought I might venture to go on
and rebuild; but I can't count upon Simpson's forbearance
for six months. No, I must get the mill-dam in good
order, and then wait patiently for September."
Mrs. Howard sighed.
"No need to' sigh about it my 'dear," said my father
cheerfully ; "it will all. come-right-it is all right now.
Being assured of that we may well submit to what God
sends."
"But papa," said I, "that does not prevent our feeling
troubled-do you think it can ?"
"Submission," said my father, "is a very different thing
from insensibility,-it never was intended Gracie, that trials
should be unfelt, for then their end would be unattained.
'No trial for the present seemeth joyous, but grievous';
and pain, sickness and poverty are in themselves evils.
Yet if we are 'walking the way of God's commandments,'
we need fear nothing that shall meet us-not even the
passing pain; for with it God may give such views of 'the
rest that remaineth,' that all the intervening labour and
weariness shall seem but as a sweet preparation." -
"One must have strong faith for that," said Mrs. How-
ard with a half sigh.
"Yes, and strong love. Do you remember the count
given of some lady, who when she was about to submit to
a dreadful operation, gave to one of the physicians the last
letter which had come from her husband, asking him to
hold it before her. And with her eyes fixed upon the open
page and love-traced characters, she sat unmurmuring, un-,
fainting throughout the whole.;
."So let a, man but keep eye and heart fixed upon the
words of Christ, 'As my-Father hath loved me, so have I
loved you,' and 'Lo I am with you away, even unto the
end of the world'; and they will gild even the deepest sor.
rows,--how much.more such trifles as beset us."    -
" Do you think they are quite trifles, papa ?" said Kate.
" Yes dear, they are trifles-such trifles as 'make up the

t
y
,I FT
r3
2
J
.
t
.+_
=s

DOLLARS AND CEBt               159
surt of human things,'-not'motes in the short sunshine of
a day, I grant you; but pour on them a light from the
eternal world-
"'Fear not little flock, for it is your Father's good pleas-
ure to give you the kingdom'-are they not trifles now?"
And with one. look of joy and tears Kateand I had put
our arms round each other ; for we too could see the dis-
tant light which shone upon my father's sea of troubles.
The time of the next trial approached. Hitherto we
had known nothing of witnesses except that they cost a
good deal, and were troublesome and hard to get,-so much
Mr. Howard had imparted to us in different fits of discon-
fort. Our fits were to come now. The night before my
father went to meet judge and jurors at Amherst two men
were ushered into the parlour, whom we at once placed in
the said witness class,---they were not gentlemen, they
were not beggars; and their conversation with my father
savoured strongly of hydraulics and water privilege. The
older and larger of the two, had more of himself than he
seemingly knew' what to do with; and certainly more than
suited our slight chairs and country doorways. One organ
of vision eyed you curiously with humour, sense, conscious-
ness and determined unconsciousness of his position; while
the other scanned the corner or looked out of the window,
--there was no " right and tight" about Mr. Barnabeds.
His free and easy manner, however, was not tinctured with
impropriety nor disrespect-neither with their opposites:
on the whole he was rather amusing.
His companion Mr., Pegraph, was a little pug-dog of a
man, as knowing and opinionative as if he had swallowed
and digested all the books that ever were written. So.
desperately smart too, and so satisfied with his own sinart-
ness, that one laughed with a slightly provoked feeling.
"My dear father !" said Kate when they had at last gone
to bed, "how could you let those men come here?"
"Because they are to give testimony for me to-morrow.
" Of course-that might take them to Amherst, but wh
bring them here ?"
"1 should have had to pay for their night's lodging sone-
where ; and I diddt suppose they would contamile our
roof by sleeping under it once."


160             DOLLARS AND CENTS.
"Contaminate! no papa, I should hope not; 'but they're
not fit to be in 1$dies' society, nor gentlemen's either."
"They are not going to be-they are here for one night
to suit my convenience. I have no money to spare, unfor-
tunately.
"Certainly, that may make it-all right and necessary,"
said Kate; "'but then papa you must allow that it is bad
in other respects. Just imagine their being seen here !"
"Everybody is welcome to see them so far as I am con-
cerned," said Mr. Howard. "Stand upon your own true
dignity my child, and not upon an unsteady heap of notions.
Neither lady nor gentleman need be hurt by such inter-
course as may be necessary, with people far below them.
These men are respectable in their own station, and their
being here is nobody's business."
So we paid a little comfort for the entertainment of the 1
witnesses.
Four days was Mr. Howard away; but on the afternoon
of the fifth the door opened, and there stood my father on
a background of Mr. S. T. Barnabeds.
" You have not succeeded, papa !" I exclaimed.
"Yes I have Gracie," he answered with a smile,-" what
made you say that ."
11I thought you looked sober papa."
"And how should he look Miss Grace ?" said the un-
welcome witness ; "sober, indeed! and at this time of day-
too! why what do you take us for?"
"Us !" thought I.
"Succeeded fairly papa .?"-.
"Fairly as far as I have succeeded at all,-this is not
quite the end, but I can go on and put up the mill."
We were too happy to be sorry for anything; and our
graciousness produced a corresponding effect upon Mr. Bar-
nabeds. He scattered snuff about the room till I was ex-
ceeded, and told absurd stories at which we couldn't help
laughing; and considering that we wished him anywhere
else, this last was vexatious.
. "Queer things these'currents of air, sir," said Mr. Bar-
nabeds with a knowing nod of 'his head, while the cool fall
wind swept round the house with a roar as of displeasure at
being shut out from the breakfast-table,--"very queer

I

a
.z
r
A
I
S
i
4"
1}
L

DOLLARS AND CENTS.              161
things ! Ugh! that's cool," he said nodding to me. "Well
sir, up here at my friend Hackett's-..why you may go on
the piazza with a lighted candle, and on the roof it would
nearabout take two men to hold one man's hair on his
head."
"Ishould think it highly probable," said my father dryly.
"And who would take care of the heads of the two
men ?" said .,
SWon't you take some corn bread, Mr. Barnabeds ?"
said my stepmother, not knowing how he might relish such
rejoinders.
" No I'm obliged to you Mrs. Howard,-I've been pay-
ing my devours to the white-the bread par excellence-
no disrespect to the corn variety. As to the other two men
Miss Grace, they haven't been up there yet ; so it's impos-
sible to say what would happen. I presume  an English.
man would predict that they would return unarmed from
their violent exertions. By the way Mr. Howard, what a
sharp Yankee you've got here for a farmer."
"Barrington ?" said my father.
"That's the man-he's cute enough to make nutmegs."
"And much too honest."-
I tell you he's a sharp one, sir. I remarked to him that
we had a good load--that was the other day when we went
out-alluding to my own weight, which is a trifle above
yours sir. And then I said what should we do if the wagon
broke down. And the chap looks at me out of the corners
of his eyes, 'Well,' he says, 'I guess about the first
thing we'd do would be to set it up again--arter you sir.'
Ever fish, Mr.-Howard ?"
" Never."
"Must be good fishing here too-afraid of the proverb
sir ?-' a fish at one end and a fool at the other,' you
know."
"I should certainly prove the last to my own satisfao.
tion," said my father--" I'm afraid the fish would be want-
ing."
"Speaking of wants," said our guest-" you haven't
got a pair of old slippers or anything of that sort, Mave
you sir ?-these boots are boots."
My father looked dubious.


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"1 have a pair of slippers-if you can wear them," he
said under the promptings of truth and hospitality.
"O anything's better than these."
I was sent for the slippers, and Mr. Barnabeds having
left the table, tried them on.
"A trifle too large sir," he said pulling the slipper half
way on, and then doubling down the heel that his might
reach terra-firma-"don't matter, it all comes of my having
such a small foot."
"That man," said my father, returning to the breakfast-
room half an hour after, "is wearing my new slippers slip-
shod, all round the garden in the mud !"

CHAP TER XVIII.
For lo! the board with cups and spoons is crowned,
The berries crackle, and the mill turns round;
On shining altars of japan they raise
The silver lamp; the fiery spirits blaze;
From silver spouts the grateful liquors glide,
While China's earth receives the smoking tide.
RAPE OF THE LOCK.
0tF course when our Philadelphia' friends arrived, we felt
bound to call and see them; but further than that we
could not go. Entertainments were out of our power, and
so many were given by other families, that the strangers
had small time or inclination for mere tea-drinkings. Thus
our intercourse with them rather languished; their visits
were seldom, their invitations Mrs. Howard usually declined.
"So you wouldn't come to the party !" said Mrs. Willet
with a slight air of pique, as she reclined in our dormeuse
one morning.
"Mr. Howard was not at home to go with us," said my
stepmother.
"Why didn't you tell me that was the reason !" ex-
claimed the lady, "I could have sent you quite 4 body-
guard. Plenty of young men that would like nothing
better. Well you're coming next week ?"
Mrs. Howard shook her head.
"Now don't say one word-I shall be really hprt if you'
don't. Kate, I know it will do you good, and your husband -
will be here to go with you-your father I mean," she
added as the flush on Kate's cheeks disentangled her
thoughts,-" la, child, I never think what I'm saying., But
will you come ?--I know it's good for these girls-I want
Grace to come too."
It was a plea my stepmother felt, and still she hesitated,

Vt

162

163


0

184

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"Now if you're thinking of dresses," Mrs. Willet pro-
ceeded, "that makes no sort of difference-just come in
your country clothes-nothing can be prettier. Simplicity's
the true style after all," said the lady arranging her volants.
"They are in no danger of adopting any other style,"
said Mrs. Howard, who could not forbear smiling.
"Yes, but it don't do to be too simple. Now Kate my
dear, never be afraid to put a bow of ribbon in your hair,
or under yhur collar here,"-she said, touching the little cres-
cent which fastened the band of lace round Kate's throat,--
" or loop up your sleeves with it-so,--pink, if you like it,
or blue would look well-you have such white arms-it's
so sweet and becoming. And if you want a dress a little
nicer than usual," said Mrs, Willet, while Kate's face took
for a moment an expression of proud and somewhat scorn-
ful self-respect, "just get tarleton,-it costs very little, and
it's the prettiest thing a young girl can wear.-I keep Car-
oline in it all winter, (I'm so sorry she's away now,) and
when one wears out, I get her another.; Just have it made
with three deep tucks, and boddice, or sash if you like, and
wear a bow of the same ribbon in your hair. There can't
be anything more pretty and suitable. Now goodbye-I
shall expect you."
"I wonder if she thinks we don't know how to dress
ourselves !" said Kate as the door closed.
"She means it all kindly," said Mrs. Howard smiling.
"I should like to see myself with a bow of ribbon in my
hair !" was Kate's uncompromising reply.
And if any style could have told Mrs. Willet as much,
Kate would probably have adopted it for that evening,-as
it was, she had to content herself with the negative teaching
of beautiful hair, in its usual quiet arrangement.
Mrs. Willet's house was lavishly lined with comfort and
money, but the first came in per favour of the second ; for
there was no particular, taste or judgment displayed any-
where. Yet the purse will do a good deal if you give it
carte blanche, and the rooms skewed not the wants of their
mistress.
She herself in a white turban, came forward from a circle
of new and old friends; and receiving us very graciously,
carried off Mrs. Howard to the circle; while my father

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

165

gazed abstractedly at the bisque on the mantelpiece, and
Miss Suydam called Kate and me to take seats by her.
Unlucky request ! Mrs. Willet presently came up in
dismay.
"My dear girls what can you possibly be thinking of?
Why I never heard of such a thing !"
"As what ma'am ?"
." Why-bless me !-here you are three ladies on this
sofa and no gentlemen even near you."
"So much the better," said Miss Suydam-" then they
won't overhear our conversation, Mrs. Willet."
"Why Jane !-how can you talk so ! here," she said
turning about and laying hold of the first three coat-sleeves
that came in her way, "your services are wanted in this
direction. Mr. Elliot-Miss Howard, Miss Grace Howard
-my nephew Mr. La Roche,-Miss Suydam, Captain
De Camp. Now for pity's sake don't sit two ladies
together." And giving a downward glance at her frock
waist, Mrs. Willet walked away.
"Is this what you call 'open ranks,' Captain ?" said Miss
Suydam as with a gesture of impatience she moved to one
corner of the sofa and motioned me to the other. But
Kate, not well pleased with such manifest manoeuvres sat
in absolute gravity as two of the gentlemen .laughingly
placed themselves on either side of her; while Mr. La
Roche perceiving that a sixth place was not, folded his
arms and taking a position in front of me, remarked,
" Well Miss Grace; I suppose I am to stand up and do
the agreeable to you."-
The resignation of this speech set us all to laughing,
and Mrs. Willet looked back quite satisfied with her
arrangements. So were also the gentlemen on the sofa;
but Mr. La Roche grew weary of some part of his position,
and after a few sentences he walked off to bestow his time
and talents elsewhere. Thus left to amuse myself the
loud talking of sundry people furnished a fair supply of
thoughts and infomation-using the common meaning of
both. Now a voluble lady would pour out a long string
of news and descriptions; or a delicate city-made gentle-
4 man would utter compliments and commonplaces in a tone
that was perfumed like his pocket-handkerchief. LExcla-


166             DOLLARS AND CEZT.
mrations of all sorts came with so little discrimination,
that one had need to be told, "this" is for joy and this
for sorrow." 'Then a 'word from Miss Easy or my step-
mother would reach my ear-speaking truth, heart and
simplicity; or one of my father's energetic, pointed expres-
sions, had all the pleasant effect of a straight line in a pic.
ture of curves.
"r My dear Kate," said Mrs. Willet while I was drawing
comparisons, "do go and sing us something-there's noth-
ing so pleasant. as music. Couldn't you sing a duet with
somebody to accompany you
"No ma'am, I don't think I could," said Kate gravely.
"Well anything else then. Come my dear-a prompt
compliance !"
And as Kate went to the piano, Mrs. Willet with a touch
and whisper sent Mr. La Roche in the same direction, while
herself fitted about observantly. Then seating herself by
my father,
" tMr. Howard, I do take such an interest in the love
affairs of  young people !"
"Do you     said my father at no pains to repress his
smile.
"0 very great! Amelia," she said looking towards the
piano and beckoning her daughter-" tell your cousin to
come here."
And with another whisper Mr. La Roche was ordered
somewhere else.
"You see," said Mrs. Willet turning again to my father,
"I sent him to turn over the leaves for Kate-I wanted to
see if it would disturb her."
"Did you ?" said Mr. Howard again.
"Yes, and I found it did; so I called him away."
My father gave an voluntary glance towards the piano,
but the unconscious victim of curiosity had returned to her
seat and was talking with Capt. Do Camp.
"Very fine young man, that !" said Mrs. Willet.
"Is he ?" said my father, who had fallen into the laconics.
very fine !"-then raising her voice, " ptami, can
you give us a song ? some little military ballad ?"
" No ma'am, I never went further than inilitary exercises,''
was the chuckling reply.

_ " -
tr    # A     f
"          a
t    -        y_    °  ° _ _
i y
h,
r,

DOLLARS AND CE               167

"'-0 but you can sing siething !"
No.I can't ma'ni ,' said the Captain bowing.
"Dear me !" sai&amp;Mrs. Willet, "that is very extraordi-
nary.
"Not at all ma'am," sid my father,-.'1 there are many
fine young men that have not fine voices-even in the
army.   I presume the 'Ha !-hum!' adjurations tend
rather to power than sweetness."
Mrs. Willet looked puzzled, and my father looked at the
ceiling.
Nothing up there worth your notice, Mr. Howard,"
said Squire Suydam pausing in his perambulation.
"Where then ?" said my father with a half smile.
Miss Avarintha !" called out Mrs. Bulger across the
room,-" Miss Avarintha! look at Squire Suydam-he is
absolutely sporting a moustache u"
"Squire Suydam!" said the echo-" I would not have
thought it!  You, sir, of all men ! Well I am surprised !"
The Squire turned, and bowed his acknowledgements.
"Daresay ma'am,-don't doubt I shall astonish you a
good many times before I die, Miss Avarintha; but as to
a moustache, I haven't a sign of such a thing-unless they're
catching,-I took a ride with the Captain this morning--
maybe that's how it is."               L
Nobody laughed louder at this than the gentleman re-
ferred to, who evidently thought himself complimented.
"'Pale faces' !" said my father musingly and half to
himself,-" the Indians would have to invent some new
name for us now. If any part of a man's face shews its
natural colour, it's because he can't help it." And then,
still in an under tone my father proceeded.
'"Some are reaped most substantial like a brush,
Which makes a nat'ral wit known by the bush;
And in my time of'some men I have heard,
hose wisdom have been only wealth and beard,)
Some like a spade, some like a fork, some square,
Some round, some mowed like stubble, some stark bare;
Some sharp,.stiletto-fashion, dagger-like,
That may with whisp'ring a man s eyes outpike;
4       Some with the quadrate, some triangle fashion,
Some circular some oval in translation;
S*,me perpenicular inr lon ag'itude,


16$            DOLLARS AND CENTS.
That heights, depths, breadths, triforme, square, oval, round,
And ru geometrical in beards are found.'
Think of the world's travelling back to 1630 !"
"Well remembered !" said Mr. Suydam laughing, I
should think you might have missed some-of the varieties."
"Couldn't"- said ny father,-"just look about you.
There's a stiletto opposite, and an oval by the fireplace,
and triangles enough. to make one think the world is stand-
ing on end. My dear sir I can't find any plain surface to
look at, but the ceiling,-and there's a bearded Silenus in
the mouldings up there !"
Mr. Howard roused himself from his gloomy contem-
plations and talked briskly with the Squire till the little
French clock jogged his elbow,-then he came to where
we sat and gave us sundry taps on the shoulder as a gentle
intimation that he was ready to go. And Mrs. Willet's
arguments failed to convince him that the hour was very,
early or our house very near.
"This is a great deal pleasanter than all those people !"
I said as we walked home; and when by two or three deep
exhalations I had purified my lungs from the atmosphere
of bouquet and badinage.
"Our Katie sang better than her little namesakes,
though," said Miss asy with a smile.  We were on our
way to the Bird's Nest.
"1But Kate is one of these people," I said laughing, "and
that is quite different you know, Miss Easy."-
"Quite another thing, Gracie."
"And yet one cannot help being amused," said Kate-
"I'm sure I have been."
"What an interesting woman is Mrs. Willet!" said Miss
Avarintha from behind; "I think she is quite remarkable."
"She certainly is," said my father dryly-" especially in
point of judgment."
"Yes, especially, as you say sir."
" But Miss Easy," said Kate, "you don't speak-don't
you like to see people ?"
"Yes," said Miss Easy-" some people and sometime
yes,-and yet I rather agree with Grace, and like stars b
ter than gas-lights."

DOLLARSS AND CENTS               169
"I'm sure I do," said Kate. " But I believe I like com-
pany better than Grace does."
"I wish she liked it' letter," said Miss Easy.  "You
needn't wear such a grave face Gracie, till you are as old
as I am at least."
"As old as you are ! dear Miss Easy," said Kate.
"Yes," she answered affectionately, "I am what most
people call old, Kaie-yes. But I don't feel old, that's
one great blessing ; 'd it doesn't trouble me to think of
it-that's another."
"Isn't Mr. Rodnefcoming home any more, Miss Easy ?"
I said: "isn't there afiy hope of his coming soon 2"
" I don't know whether Iought to say hope or fear," she
said, with a tone that had rost its bright cheerfulness.
"Yes, I- expect him-se will not      if his father con-
tinues better, but that can liar
"Do you think so Miss               te; "that last
letter was grave, certainly              ore sad than
usual ?"
"It seemed to me less ho                these jour.
nies-I know, I hay              4-they do so little
good. I think we sews
She was right.     mer Collingwood's health which
had at first improve rapidly, declined  t; and he died
in Bermuda just a year f  -the time o   leaving Daisy
Lea. Close upon this ca     t          dto us a much
nearer one--the death of        Foward. We had ex-
pected it, he had never been well since the ye.before,--
but though surprise might have increased thefieist shock,
it could hardly have added to our grief,-that was to be
of years.
The autumn leaves had meaning in them now, as they
fell fluttering from the branches, and thewind took up our
half stifled sighs, and breathed them out over the strewn
earth, till we could have wept at the expression of our own
thoughts. Perhaps it was well for us that smaller cares
ceased not at theconming of the great+; though they were
felt with double annoyance.
My father sat before the fire one morning early in De-
cember,-with a most perplexed face.
8

t

4v.
ey,, 9


X1.0

DOLLARS AND 2ANTS-

"I do not know how I am    to manage,"-he said at
length,-" I do not know."
"Manage what?" said my stepmother.
"To raise -a hundred dollars immediately. Here's this
man McCarthy going somewhere-back to Ireland I hope
-and wants his money, says he n}ust have it; and where
it's to come from I don't profess to know. I could pay
him by' degrees, but that won't do"nd how to get so
much at once-unless-" and he pa-
"Unless what ?"
" Unless I raise it upon some  r plate."
Mrs. Howard looked grave.
"But for Kate and Grace, I  1 say yes,in a moment.
" I know-that is the onl      t.  But I shall have
money by and b       the      n redeem it,-I should
lodge it with so
"Pray don't               !" said we both, and Kate
added,
"You kno                   signify ? so long as your
way is mad                  best thng for us."
" It will ein t                    father.
So our company     .up and taken to
Philadelphia, and   arthy receive jis money. But I
think we -poorer for this Ansaction. It might
be long befo     should ne      thing better than the
service we ha                    right to redeem the
pledged angat a    i        when should we have the
powers" .what fut reg 'should we have a hundred
dollars     are ?     for what we could do without?
We were like to have more than one hundred engaged
beforehand..
Things were changed. Our fine English live-stock had
dwindled-some sold, others dead; and those still on hand
were all too many for the hay. Just in the mowing sea-
son Ezra Barrington had been ill and my father away-;
the consequences we were now meeting.   Our Yankee
would come in with,
"Squire,to home, Mrs. Howard ?"
"Not yet."
"Ain't an airthly thing for them critters to eat; and
they're as hungry as can be." And Ezra would place his

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

1,n

9F
Jti
Ale
F   a
FJ
1r
a

~' . ." - .
;A

hat upon the floor and straighten himself up as if he were
supposed to be at his wits' end-not at all as if he was.
And with a passing shadow on her face my stepmother
would -look up and say,
"Is all that hay gone already ?"
"Ain't three straws left, ma'am, if I was to take a rake
and count 'em; and the cows is eatin' the mangers. They
do put away the most fodder !" he added with a shake of
the head---" there ain't no sense into it."
"Well what will you do? Mr. Howard is not coming
till Saturday."
"Then 'twon't answer to wait for him, that's a fact," said
Ezra. "I s'pose I'll just have to make tracks to Squire
Bulger's, and back down a, couple of bundles-ain't snow
enough for the sled. That'll do 'em till Saturday I reckon;
but it beats all my wife's relations to be scant o' hay afore
Jinooary."
We longed for the spring anditsuyly of grass. There
were other things too-for the house, for ourselves,-things
wanting and not got. A pair of shoes "if it should be con-'
venient to get them,"-or sheets end towels with a condi-
tional "never mind." Still my father always said "Have
everything you want," or, "Shall I bAng you some. silk
dresses." But we knew better, and while so many dollars
were needed elsewhere, we could not 'bear to use any for
ourselves.
Sometimes we did question whether the money was
going in the best direction; but if improvements were not
finished, how were we to recover the dollars which had be-
gun them? how ever-get our heads above water unless the
mill set the example? And then we did enjoy things when -
they came; and when my father said "there are your shoes,
my dear-I hope they will fit,"'I felt even tearfully, the
kindness that had found time and means to get them. And
* when after along waiting he would bring home some needed
piece of stuff, we set to work upon it with much more alac-
rity than if it lead come at our call, Yes, there. are pleas-
ures in poverty; and the very appreciation of dpy father's
trouble of mind lightened all things else to us. So we worked
away, smoothed down all things to him, and kept them
from every other eye and ear. By dint of carefulness, our

~,,
~


172             DOLLARS AND CENTS.                                                       DOLLARS AND CENTS..
nice clothes long kept their good appearance; and though
people knew we had had losses, they were far from guessing
how nearly it was low water with our dollars. While we
said privately,
" Oh filling out, oh filling in !
Oh paying out !-no paying in 1"
And so amid the changing light of doubtful weather, that                                 CHAPTER        XIX,
year which had seen the end of so many things, drew near
its own.                                                                                            The cherished fel
Put on their winter robe of purest white.
'Tis brightness all; save wiw snow
Along the mazy current.  ;  woods
Bow their hoar head; and,  lgid Su
Faint from the west emits his evening ray,
Earth's universal face, deep hi, and chill,
Is one wild dazzling waste.
CHRISTMAS day passed in whirlwinds
-Uwe within doors were doubly quiet for
elements without. QOr few simple present
and received with a mixed pleasure. Th
doubts whether we should receife-whet
afford to give; and to make much prepare
wanted both time and spirits. Then there w
contrast with former years,--how keenly i
Mr. Howard came in with a paper of candid
it on the table, said he had brought us that
I would rather he had forgotten the day.
Towards evening the wind lulled, and thou
still fell doubtfully and at intervals, Kate an
walk to the Bird's Nest. We seldom went b
now, it was too roundabout a way for our fr
but we had struck out a little foot- ath which
wood and meadow brought us to the Nest
and though its narrowness left our dresses to
fit of the snow, it was too pretty to be aban
a trifle. So literally this time, we " made t
little path which'fell into our own garden grc
The weather was quiet, except as now and
wind would sweep over the white country,
pearls and then diamonds upon our ey~row

17$
EISr
ds
melts
in
of snow.; and
the sporting
ts were given
ere had been
her we could
ration we had
vas the strong
felt it when
ies, and laying
for Christmas!
gh snow-flakes
d I resolved to
r the high road
'equent visits ;
h going across
much sooner;
take the bene-
doned for such
racks " for the
)und.
then a puff of
and put first
sand lashes-

^e


174          DOLLARS AND CENTS.

then-whirling away-its course marked by the light ihite
cloud which if raised.
The chickadees were in full force, and they alone broke
the stillness: while their black caps told as beautifully
upon the waste of snow, as their merry notes- amid the
universal hush. We stopped to look at them. Upon a
bush close to our. path there were perhaps a dozen-in
every variety of attitude and position; the little black
heads turned up, and down, and sideways ; and having
from their round, full-feathered plumpness, a look particu-
larly comical. While one bird was perpendicular, another
horizontal, one perched and another swinging beneath a
branch, their heads never at rest; and from every twig in
succession came the joyous "Chick-a-dee-dee-dee !" And
all the time their little gladsome eyes watched us-half as
it seemed in curiosity, half in commiseration that we too
were not Blackcaps. One might have fancied that they
sang,
"Chick-a-dee-dee-dee 1--
Oshel 0 see !
Would@t you be, wouldn't you be,
Likeme? like me?-'a-
Chick-a-dee-dee-dee !"
I think if they had really put the question Kate and I
might have answered "yes"; but with a chirp, and a flutter
that showered the snow from its resting-place, the flock
sprang to their wings-if I may use the expression-and
we silently walked on. It was time ; the light came more
and more askance, and neither for birds nor bad walking
must we loiter now. Yet fast as we step if, is not so light
that we cannot see the glimmering fire through the white
muslin curtains as we reach the cottage.
"How those curtains look like Miss Easy !" said Kate,
-" simple, pure, and. quiet as she is."
And transparent to 'the light within,"' I added.
"Yes,- wish every one had as bright a light, and as
gentle a medium for it to shine through. But then the
world would be too pleasant. Ah Gracie! we shall not
see many such this side 'the kingdom.' How evidently
she is bound for it ! ow plainly the expression of her face
tells which way she looking !"

3
4

DOLLARS AND CEVTs                175
The cottage was deprived of its green setting, and to the
rough stone walls the snow clung in patches, and the roof
bore its white burden with very grave quietness.: yet the
many little tracks upon the walk where no other feet had
yet been, told of the revels of chickadees;' and the elm
waved its long branches not cheerlessly in a late gleam
of sunlight, which came from the west, a very "beam of
tranquillity."
We had long given up knocking at Miss Easy's door;
so opening it gently, Kate and I passed in and entered' the
parlour. The room had that soft, uncertain light---the
interregnum between sun and fire--which is the very
atmosphere" of dreamland,-even the fire seemed weaving
visions, as it flickered and flashed and sighed and had the
conversation all to itself. Nobody heeded it;- and the
bright coals fell and the white ashes gathered, and nobody
heeded them.
Miss Easy was not there, but a great chair stood before
the hearth, and in it was Mr. Rodney. We recognised him
at once, though with his head sunk in his hands, he sat like
one whose thoughts are travelling peInfully the long-quitted
roads of former life; but after one glance at him Kate and
I looked at each other-yes, it was Mr. Rodney himself.
Wolfgang lay near him, but the doges pricked-up ears were
quickly lowered, and his tail gave us a quiet greeting as
his head went down to its former attitude of repose. We
stood still a few moments, and then were about to go as
softly as we had come, when Miss Easy entered by another
door.
"Why my dear girls!" she said, " where did you
come from? I am so glad to see you, yes. And you
took this long walk in the snow to wish me a merry
ChristmasI But what in the world were you going away
for ?"
"Not because of me, I hopee" said Mr. Rodney, as he
came forward and gave us a greeting that had all the
warmth of old times. "Friends should nosyrun away from
each other after so long a separation," he added more
sadly.
"Don't they look well ?" said Mi jEasy, coaxing the
fire into a bright blaze and then,comin ack to untie our


DOLLARS AND CENTS.            177

hoods,-" don't they look well? and haven't they grown
and improved ?-yes."
Mr. Rodney smiled-
"They certainly have, Miss Easy, and they look well;
but-is nothing the matter at home ? is all well there too ?"
"Yes, perfectly," Kate ,said; and I looked up rather
wonderingly and asked,
"«Why? Mr. Rodney-what makes you say that ?"
"Something in the eyes I was looking at, Gracie," he.
answered; "but perhaps the shade was in my own."
"There mustn't be a shade in anybody's eyes," said Miss
Easy,-" I am so glad to see you all here together, once
more !-yes. And now Katie love, sit down and tell me
how you have spent this long stormy day; yes-I want to
know."
"The day has not been so very long, Miss Easy-con-
sidering its quietness and the little Christmas feeling that I
have had,-we were too busy to do much in the way of
present-making. But your engravings looked like Santa
Claus, and gave.us a great deal of pleasure."
"And you see what a present I had," said Miss Easy-
looking with glistening eyes at her guest. "I found him
here this morning just as you did this afternoon, yes; and
I have hardly recollected what the day waste And only
think ! there lay Wolfgang at his feet, and he hasn't stirred
from -him since. I declare," said Miss Easy wiping her
eyes, "it quite touched me."
Mr. Rodney laid his hand upon the dog's head, which
Wolfgang acknowledged by one of his looks of mute affec-
tion, and for a little the fire crackled and blazed unheeded
as before. Then our two friends spoke again, in tones low
at first, and very grave, as if each read the other's thoughts;
but brightening and strengthening as word and eye almost,
passed from the ruins of earth to "that city which hath
foundations."
And Kate and I, listening with charmed ears, noticed not
the waning light, till Miss Avarintha and candles came in,
--then we started up in surprise at our own forgetfulness.
"Now just sit down !" said the lady, "I didn't know you
were here, and I've twenty things to say to you. Are
your father and        ) riealth ?"

"Yes ma'am," said Kate, "but we must take another
time to hear the twenty things. We have staid too long
already--it is quite late."
"You need not look so anxiously at the window," said
Mr. Rodney-" you will not be afraid with me, if it is a
little dark."
"No, but we are not going with you, Mr. Collin wood,"
said Kate-" at least you are not going with us. We are
not at all afraid-it is not far."
" O no !" I said; "and you must be very tired-you
cannot want a walk, Mr. Rodney."
"I am sure I shall take one, whether you let me go with
you or not. I must go to the Lea to-night, Miss Easy," he
added, turning to her, i' but you shall see me again in the
morning."
" Why should you go there, of all places ?" said Miss
Bain-" it will only make you feel sad,-you ought to stay
here and get up your spirits. It isn't right to indulge your-
self so-a pensive state of mind is very unhealthy."
No one answered this speech, but after a minute's silence
Miss Easy said, gently laying her hand on his arm,
" You will come back to-morrow ? yes, you promise me
that? then I will not keep you longer, for I know these
children want to be off."
And Wolfgang roused himself to follow us, keeping close
to his master as if he feared another separation.
The clouds were scattered now, and the new moon's
faint light just served to show the snow's full beauty.
My thoughts went back to our first Christmas in that
region-when we had dined at Daisy Lea, and had walked
home in such a night-but how different! Perhaps Kate's
mind had taken the same course, for after a while she
said,
"It is strange that the snow cannot j| p its lightness,
even where there has been no heavy weght to press it
down!"
"And what reality were you looking at through that
shadow ?" said Mr. Rodney.
"I was thinking of a time years ago, when we said the
newfallen snow was like our own spirits," said Kate with a
scarcely perceptible sigh.

176           DOLLARS AND CENTS.


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

Again we walked on in silence, and then Mr. Rodney
said,
"You have told me nothing of this long year as it has
passed at Glen Luna. I know from Miss Easy that you
have been well, but what have the months brought besides'
health ?"
"A little experience-a little more of real life than we
ever had before," Kate answered.
"The shade was not all in my own eyes then."
We had taken the road home, for the little path was too
narrow and dark for pleasant walking at ,that hour; and'
now we were passing the same slopes and fields that we
had first seen in all the luxuriance of summer dress. Un-.
broken white now, the bare trees -cast the faintest of
shadows, and almost looked shadowy themselves in that
- pale light.
"Miss Kate," said Mr. Rodney, "the snow will as you
say lose its lightness-will melt away entirely; and yet the
earth is thereby much more fertilized than if that reflector
for the sunbeams were abiding."
"Yes," she answered, though her voice trembled a little,
"I know--I feel that to be true. And yet-".
" And yet," he said gently, "sometimes you forget what
Baxter says-' there is no mirth like the mirth of believers,
which faith doth fetch from the blood of Christ, and from
the promises of the word, and from experiences of mercy,
and from the serious fore-apprehensions of our everlasting
blessedness.'"
"Forget it because I have so little of it," Kate said pres-
ently.
"Well," he answered, in the same pleasant, encouraging
tone, "it is something to know what we want,-it is more
to know how the want may be supplied; 'but the arch will
fail of its purpose without the key-stone. Let faith bind
the remedy to the need, and the work is perfect. The lack
of this makes many a half-way christian; and it often hin-
ders the realization of that promise-' They that fear the
Lord shall not want any good thing."'
" Will you come in Mr. Rodney ?" said Kate. as we
reached our own door.
"Not to-night."

"You have done us more than one kindness by taking
this long walk !"
" And you are not going away any more !" I said. "I
am so glad !"
" We will not talk of that now, Gracie, but I trust your
power of remembrance could stretch over more than one
year-if I should try it."
I was not quite satisfied with the indication of these last
words; and when Miss Bain paid us a visit next morning
I repeated my remark about Mr. Rodney's staying at
home.
"Bless me !" was the somewhat disdainful reply,--" the
idea of his doing anything half so wise !"
" And what foolish thing does he mean to do ?" said Mrs.
Howard.
" Why-of course that's as people take it,-but here he's
just come home in great affliction-or ought to be-and
instead of visiting about among his friends aid trying to
get his spirits up-taking a little relaxation you know, Mrs.
Howard-he's going straight off to college or somewhere;
and the next thing I hear will be that he is dying of a pain
in his chest, or some other mathematical disorder."
"I hope not," said my stepmother, quite unable to re-
press a smile.
"But Mrs. Howard," said Miss Avarintha-" really
ma'am you ought not to laugh,-just imagine him bending
all day over his books-and he a young man of such erect
carriage and symmetrical proportions! Why it's perfectly
melancholy !"
" Very melancholy indeed, if it injures his health; but I
should think he had sense enough to guard against that."
"My dear ma'am he hasn't a bit !-he told me gravely
this morning that he had no time to lose, or throw away,
or something-complimentary to his friends too, as I said.
Just think of it-!-and he so young too! why he might
settle down and get married and study for a profession
afterwards."  .
"If he cared nothing about his wife."-
"If he did! Now Mrs. Howard were you ever married
to a man who hadn't been through college? iad Mr. Rod-
ney has been part through, besides."

ttt ng-

178

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

17g


180           DOLL ARS AND C7ENT-.

"Never," s   my stepmother laughing,--" Mr. Howard
graduated wit .    e honours. But I must venture to
assert my opiriQn  btaman.had better study before mar-
riage than after."
"Why ? for pity's sake ?"
' More time and fewer claims upon it."
"You don't mean that people oughtn't to read nor any-
thing of that sort after they're married ?-why there's Mr.;
Howard spends hours and hours at his books, I'm sure,-.
didn't you say so once when I asked you? Why if a man
did nothing but look after his wife, what would become of.
his mind ma'am ?"
"His wife's mind might oftener become something than
it does now," said my stepmother. "But I am no advocate
for idleness in any department, Miss Avarintha; though I'
must say that I think intellectual men often slight too
much their non-intellectual duties. They are so busy ma-
king a clear #ay for their heads, that the walk of their prac-
tical every-day life becomes sadly encumbered."
"Then what would you have Mr..Rodney do ?--suppose
his health fails."
"I'm sure I was laying down no rules for Mr. Rodney,"%
said Mrs. Howard.
" No ma'am-of course ! but I want your opinion-young
men in general, for instane."
"That's a pretty large for instance.  I think 'young
men in general' are in no danger from over application to
anything-the more they study the better."
"My dear Mrs. Howard! you really are too evasive.
Should a man give up his books when he gets a wife ?"
"By no means; but he should see to it that they are not'
obstacles in the way of his wife's happiness."
"As if they could be !" said Miss Bain indignantly, for.
she was lady-patroness of books in general-" why Mrs..
Howai-d, I have always maintained that you were the hap-
piest woman in the world, because Mr. Howard was. so
fond ofstudy and all that ! A pretty life a woman must.
lead whenlher husband's head is nothing but a head! It
had better be something else and be in the clouds."
-  stepmother's smile was quite beyond Miss Bain's
comprehension, neither was it explained, but she said.-

DOLLARS AND CENTS.          181

" We are talking in the abstract, you know: if.you ap-
ply all my words to myself, I shall have to stop. But I
have seen many a married student, and have seen him-
with his head in the clouds as you say-go stumbling along
over the obstacles which had accumulated through his ab.
straction, and hardly know what they were or how they
came."
"Very well, and what harm then ?"
"I did not say harm to him; but Miss Avarintha I have
seen his wife trying to remove those obstacles, or with her
own unassisted strength to get herself and her children over
them. I can tell you it is a sight which might almost dis-
gust one with books in general! Let a man study-but oh
let him study his wife first !"
Thee ye that was so seldom roused out of its gentleness,
--the sympathetic, womanly indignation that flushed her
cheek and made her voice tremble, obtained  my step-
mother even Miss Bain's respect and admirat
"Well I must say," she remarked, "you are a most
extraordinary person! But do you ever tell Mr. Howard
all this ?"
"Sometimes-when I think he's in danger," said Mrs.
Howard with a smile so sweet and placid that it turned the
edge of Miss Bain's curiosity.
"Bless me !" said that lady suddenly coming back to the
starting point,  why if Mr. Rodney heard all this- he'd
kill himself right away !"
"I hope not," said my stepmother as with one quieting
long breath she too came back,-" I certainly have advised
nosuch desperate measures."
No ma'am, but he wants to know so much you see;
and if he thought this was his only chance,,it's my belief
he'd study himself to death in six months."
.Maybe he does not intend to get married so soon,"
said my stepmother smiling, "and if a few more months
dilute the poison, it may not prove fatal. And you; may
tell him from me, that instead of having no chance to learn
anything after he is married,-the chances will be so many
that he will have hard work to keep pace with them."
"My dear Mrs. Howard&amp;! how queer you are !-what
funny men and women you would make'!"


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

182

"O she would make such good ones !" said Kate.
" Well I believe she would, if everybody was ,snake-up-
able into Kates.and, Graces-for you are certainly the best:
girls I ever saw in my life. But now you're coming to
dine with us to-morrow, and you musn't say ,one wor of
all this."
" I will be very good," said Mrs. Howard.  ,
"Because you see Easy's very anxious-arid so am I of
course-that he should rest himself; and he thinks so much
of your sense and all that, Mrs. Howard, I'm sure he'd do
just what you told him to.".
My stepmother shook her head, as if she :were sure of no,
such thing.      .
"Who will take care of the Lea now ?-Mrs. Crown as
usual?"
"O dear no !" said Miss Avarintha, "Mr. Rodney has
nothing t9   with it 'now, you know,-it belongs to his
brother-    ill Collingwood.  At least he was Carvill
Collingwood, but he only calls himself Carvill at pres-
ent."
"1A good riddance !" said my father who had come in
while she spoke.
" Yes, sir, so I think-I can't say I'm fond of very long
surnames,-one or two syllables is plenty."
"But I didn't know this brother was alive ?"' said Mrs.
Howard.-.
"'Dear me yes! Very fine young man too, only wild-
but that one can't help."
"I shouldn't think he would care to live at the Lea then,"
said Kate.
"Not going to, my dear; oh no-he'd think himself
buried alive. He'll, only come down there now and then
to kill the birds his father was so fond of. Mr. Rodney
will take away all that belongs to him at once, which isn't
very much to be sure; and what Mrs. Crown will do I am
not informed-probably she will choose to reside some-
where in the neighbourhood, and perhaps she'll stay at the
Lea house still, if Mr. Carvill makes it worth her while.
But that's not likely, for these harebrained young men
never know what to do with their property. Easy's quite
troubled to think of the- old place going into such hands,

/ /  f, rY  I

DOLLARS AND UE1V'T.

18

but I tell her it's no use.-I.daresay he'll be a delightful
neighbour and wake us all up."
"I don't wish to be waked up," said my father knitting
his brows and walking out of the room.
"Mr. Howard is so strict," said Miss Bain laughing.
"But Mr. Carvill is going to be married Kate, so you
needn't even look that way. Bless me !-what a face!
why he's not a Turk or a Mussulman, child,-and if he was,
I'm sure the Turks are very handsome, and turbans very
becoming, I can tell you there's many a girl would jump
at Carvill, for as wild as he is."
" I a~mnnot at all allied to the kangaroos," said Kate.
."But who is the jumper in this case Miss Avarintha ?"
said I.
"Jumper !" said Miss Bain in high indignation-" what
in the world is the child thinking of!.-.kangaroos indeed!
the idea of calling Clemence St. Cloud a jerbo
"Nay we did not touch upon that species said Kate,
"she is French then ?"
"To be sure she is, so you'd better not laugh at her.
She's a most exquisite young creature they say-brought
up in a convent,-so I suppose she knows everything."
"Well but is she coming to the Lea too ?" said my
stepmother.
"Bless me, ma'am, how can I tell?-no I should think
not,-from all I hear of hershe's not the sort of person to
run about after her husband."
" Only to jump at him," said I.
Miss Bain had half a mind to be vexed, but we laughed
so heartily that she could but laugh too, protesting that
we were "as ridiculous as possible;" and so we parted in
good humour.

a

.1


184

:DOLLARS AND CENTS.

I

CHAPTER XX.
Something like home that is not home is to be desired; it is found in the
house of a frend.-TEMPLE.
FEAR there was a touch of selfishness in our feelings
I next'"day, when we heard that Miss Bain had a head-
ache. Miss Easy and Mr. Collingwood were alone in the
little parlor ,and the explanation of this circumstance was,
truth to s , very satisfactory: we could be sorry for the
invalId but not for ourselves. So long as we were very
bright, her company and conversation came not amiss; but
in those circumstances where the tongue-"that little horse
that is perpetually running away,"-requires- the guiding
hand of nice feeling, at the very time when Miss Easy was
most lovely, Miss Avarintha was least endurable.
Moreover when dinner was served, I discovered that she
would have been too many in another respect. We were
such a pleasant number as matters stood,-mamma and I
on one side, Mr. Rodney and Kate on the other: my father
armed with the carving knife ; while opposite to him sat
Miss Easy with a face of such pleased affection, that none
but those who knew her well, would have guessed that she
had always at least'one thought upstairs. I felt reproved
for my secret joy every time I looked at her-get rid of it
I could not.
. An acute observer who had surveyed that happy dinner
table, would have thought none of us in exuberant spirits;
and yet would have judged that we were possessed of as much
comfort, of as much counterbalancing good, as man needs to
bear the evil patiently,-and so we were. The wind went
noisily about the house, as it had been the world's turmoil:
dark clouds that would have done honour to November's

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

185

moodiness drifted in close order across the sky, like threat-
eners of our peace. Yet did not the world enter, nor the
darkened light without do aught but brighten the worl
within,-we were very happy. Quietly, soberly, as people
who have tasted life must be, to be happy at all; though
with Kate and me the taste was half sympathetic, and in
return the older members of the company caught from us
somewhat of the smack'of young pleasure that yet lingered
on our lips.
"Sous lee aimables lois dont l'amiti6 noun lie;
Et lee biens et les maux, tout doit se partager:
Mais quel partage heureux I le bien sy mutiplie,
Et le mal y devint leger."
There is something very fair in the unbroken glow of a
summer day; but fairer yet, and of more interest, is that
play of light and shade when the sun cannot quite banish
the clouds, nor the clouds refuse to admit ' influence.
When the shadows that-fall are soft-and fleet .,and every
touch of light is burnished by the strong hand of contrast.
My stepmother went to see the sick lady after dinner;
and leaving my father and Mr. Rodney to finish their con-
versation, Miss Easy walked into the drawing-room again,
followed by Kate and me. The short day was just ending;
but as if to make amends for its past cloudiness, the sky
was now perfectly clear, and the wind had gone after his
playthings.
"How long does Mr. Rodney stay, Miss Easy ?" said
Kate.
"He goes to-morrow."
" To-morrow !"
We watched the passing light almost in silence; but
when the sun had set, and we were looking for darkness,
there came through the bay-window a strip of the fairest,
softest radiance, that ever fell upon a twilight world.' It
glimmered faintly upon the window, but within-upon
carpet and chair and wall-the ray had not even that
approach to gayety,--it breathed the very spirit of pure con.
solation. We looked at each other and then at the western
sky. There hung, just over the horizon, a slender crescent,
coming forth from the cool white light of the sky most
beautifully--like a diamond in silver setting ; and front

dI


DOLLARS AID CENTS.

DOLLARS AND CENT.                                                                     1

point to point, faintly mapped out, the eye could just trace
the outline of its future greatness. Steadily it shone in
upon us in its descent, and for a while we watched it almost
as steadily.
asMy dear Kate," said Miss Easy then, " what are you
thinking of? the moon?"
"No ma'am, my thoughts had descended to earth."
"Come here and let me see you."
Kate left her stand at the back of Miss Easy's chair, and
kneeling down at her feet lent her face to her friend's kind
and somewhat thoughtful scrutiny.
" Well dear Miss Easy," she said, "can your mind find
the path by which mine came down? I don't think I
could direct you to it."
" Tell me where it came to and I will try," said her friend
smiling. "Katie, your eyes are just like the channels
about those islands Mr. Rodney was telling me of-only
there are no hidden reefs."
"What islands ?" said Kate laughing.
" The Bermudas."
"Was he telling you abopt them? 0 I wish I had heard
it. I wanted very much to ask him but"-
"Wanted to ask ms what ?" said the gentleman in ques-
tion as. he came up end placed himself in Kate's former
position behind Miss Easy.
Kate hesitated.
"I was thinking-.-I was wishing that I could ask you-
that you would tell us something about Bermuda," she
said in rather a low voice, as if afraid of giving pain. And
to that he answered.
"I love to think of it Miss Kate-it is very pleasant to
me. What was your question?"
"Sit down here Katie and tell him," said Miss Easy, "I
am going upstairs,"
"I don't know enough about it to ask questions," said
Kate as she took the oifered chair, while Mr. Rodney left
his stand for one by the mantelpiece ; "I have just a gen-
eral idea of a group of islands east of the United States.
Are they remarkable for anything ?"
"Very remarkable, both for beauty and situation. You
are so fond of this little inland lake Miss Kate, what would

you say to a lake in the midst of'the ocean?-its boundary
a coral reef, its horizon one low water-line. Well Gracie
--you look at me as if I were telling travellers' wonders,
and not very credible ones neither."
"Because I can't quite understand them sir, Was there
ever such a place ?"
"There was when I came from Bermuda-the islands lie
in just such a one. It is a singular shoal, some twenty-
three miles by thirteen, the deep sea on every side of it,
and the nearest point of land almost six hundred miles off."
"And the lake is on top of this shoal ?" said Kate.
"Precisely. And the reefs which surround it are so
high as to keep out entirely the action of the sea."
"And how near to the islands is this reef?"
"The outer edge of it? The distance varies very much
-ten miles off in some places. The islands are low and
always green-indeed there is no climate there but of spring
-t is one of the prettiest evening scenes you can imagine;
and the little boats go gliding about the narrow channels
like a train of fairy things."
" O Mr. Rodney-" I said, "that is just what I wanted
to ask-those channels"-
"Are among the islands," said Kate,--" didn't you under-
stand ?"
"Of course ! where else could they be! But Miss
Easy said that Kate's eyes were just like those channels-
except the reefs.-is there anything peculiar about them
Mr. Rodney ?"
He smiled.
"They are peculiarly clear and pure Gracie-I presume
that is what Miss Easy was thinking of, , But do'you know
that you have a great fondness for indefinite pronouns ?"
"How have I? what do you mean sir ?"
"What was the antecedent to your 'them'? 'eyes' or
reefs' or channelss'? If I had been a stranger to all three
I might have been puzzled."
" I know," said I laughing-" papa talks to me about it
sometimes. But then you always understand everybody
Mr. Rodney.".
"I generally understand ywou," he said with a smile.
"But it is only by means of this same clearness of the

18g6

187


188            DOLLARS AND CENTS.
water that the islands can be reached at all. When a ship
comes to the boundary a negro pilot takes her in charge,
and leaning over the prow to keep close watch of the reefs
with which the lake is studded, he guides her safely through
the narrow channel."
"It must be a lovely place !" said Kate, who by dint of
strong imagination had conjured up a visionary Bermuda
in the fire; and was surveying it intently. "I almost won-
der you did not want to stay there, Mr. Rodney."
"That could hardly be !" he said with that quick light of
the eye which sudden and strong feeling often wrought in
him-" that could hardly be !"-then adding more quietly,
"if you knew me better Miss Kate, you would better ap-
preciate my love of friends and home.
" But one might make friends-there are plenty of peo-
ple there."
"Plenty of strangers-that give one as much of a home
feeling as does the wild ocean outside the reef! they
seemed like a barrier between me and everything that I
cared about." He paused and then said in a lower and
graver .ne,.
"Yes, there are people enough there, and in some moods
one might, as you say, make friends. But if one knew
them all, home is not easily transferrable,-even the eye
wearies, of strange beauties, and longs for those which if
more common are far more dear. I would have bartered
all the graceful, unfading loveliness of Bermuda, for one
look at the roughest view in this neighbourhood, in the
wildest storm that ever bedecked it with clouds and snow."
"And yet--"
"And yet I love to think of 'it now? Yes, very much,
but not for the sake of the place itself-there are some
associations that can endear anything, and some recollec-
tions that are much more gladdening than forgetfulness."
"There are a great many false notions on that subject,"
said my father suddenly pausing his.steps by Kate's chair;
"I am glad they are not yours. In 'throwing off' and 'for-
getting' some cause of sorrow, how often hidden blessings
and comfort go with it. While if men would seek them
out, they would by and by get on the bright side of the
-cloud-out of reach of its shadow."..

DOLLARS AND CENTS.               189
How sadly the shadow was on Mr. Rodney's face for a
moment, ere he answered,
"1 cannot say that for myself Mr. Howard, not always
-sometimes I am selfish enough to feel the cloud far too
much-assured as I am that to be out of this world, is not,
for a christian, to be beyond the pale of all good, but of
all evil."
" How many people," said my father, "look upon heaven
as a man whose house is burning looks at the rest of the
world,-he must leave his house, but what to do elsewhere?
I was struck with that, almost painfully, the last time I was
in Philadelphia. 'Poor Dr.----' said a clergyman to me,
speaking of the late minister of the  St. church ! Sir
I wondered if the man thought ' the promise of none
effect'! What a slur upon his friend's faith ! What a
commentary upon his own ! I was happy to know that the
former was undoubted."
"You remember papa," said Kate, "what Cotton Mather
says of old Governour Bradstreet--'death seemed rather
conferred upon him, than life taken from him."'
"Ay," said my father, turning off again to hit walk,
"but it is much easier to see some people's mistakes than
to imitate other people's excellencies."
I had a presentiment that the headache would go off by
tea-time, and to be sure it did. Miss Bain was not only
able, but very glad to take her place at the table, and as
large a share as possible in the conversation-to make up
for lost time.
"What are you going to do ?" said my father seizing a
time when he thought the subject matter at the other side
of the fireplace seemed pretty engrossing. "You don't
mean to turn counsellor Mr. Rodney ?"
"Not 'at law,' certainly."
"That's well-though perhaps I shouldn't say so ; but it
always seems to meas if the atmosphere of other people's
quarrels must be unwholesome. But what are you going
to make of yourself then? what profession have you
chosen?"
" That one sir for which a man is least of all self-made-.
the church."
"But my dear Mr. -Rodney !" said Miss Bain suddenly

'


190

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"1

turning round, "the church! I always thought you were a
dissenter ?"
"From what Miss Avarintha ?" said Mr. Rodney.
"From what ?" said the lady, dubiously eyeing her an-
tagonist; "well that is a question! Why the established
church of course."
"And what is the established church of America " he
answered with a smile.
"Really sir," said Miss Bain a little piqued, "I did not
know that you were in the habit of.evading a fair ques-
tion."
"It doesn't so much matter what he dissents from after
- all, ma'am," said Mr. Howard, ''if he only lives up to
Bunyan's standard. You remember Miss Bain that *'Chris-
tian saw the figure of a very grave person hang up against
the wall; and this was the fashion of it: it had eyes lifted
up to heaven, the best of books was in its hand, the law
of truth was written upon its lips, the world was behind its
back; it stood as if it pleaded with men, and a crown of
gold did hang over its head."'
" To be sure," said Miss Bain half involuntarily.
" Well Mr. Rodney," said my father, "I am glad that
such is your choice. I only hope they will build you a
church at the other horn of the lake, to keep Mr. Ellis in
countenance. We can't afford to lose you permanently
from this neighbourhood."
" Ah sir !" said Miss Easy, "that would be too pleasant!
Yes sir, I wish I could see that !"
The wish and the tone of loving interest were well paid
for, if a look could pay.
"It would be almost too pleasant a thing to happen, dear
Miss Easy," he said. "I cannot hope to have just the place
in the world that I should like best."
There was some wistfulness, some sorrowful feeling, in
her eyes for a moment; and then she said,
"I will hope it ! and if not-it will be better for you,-
that is enough."
But we all felt very much drawn together that night.

DOLLARS AND UENTS.

191

CHAPTER XXI.
I do not envy thee, Pamela; only I wish that being thy sister in nature, Itwere
not so far off akin in fortune.-SIDNEY.
THREE months passed by, and how did we stand then ?-
if standing it might be called. Another piece of plate
had followed the tea-set, and another debt had been paid off.
Our last city property we had let go, with all the money
paid on it, for just the comfort of untieing a weight from
our necks. The mill worked not, because some needful
machinery we could not buy ; so the rest of the works rusted
like the money that had been spent on them, and the stream
babbled of our folly, for want of other employment. A
little more or a little less, and we had been richer. Our
cattle were'diminished in size and numbers; our fruit-walls
done but wanting a gardener to make them productive ;
while the stone cottages stood unroofed for the following
reason. Mr. McLoon had begun to add his unnecessary
aid to the discomposing of-our affairs: had declared that
our selling out cottage lots would be an injury to him, and
that he would not give title. JIe had promised the contrary
--but it was not on paper, and he was not fully paid,-so
we went to law again.
Then came a judgment for the schooling of some poor
boy whom my father had tried to educate-a friend took
,that off our hands. Then another for cattle feed---but that
too was settled.
Then Mr. Howard decided that he ought not to let Ezra
Barrington work for nothing--(which Ezra seemed inclined
to do), and that he could not afford to pay him proper
wages.. So we began to live along with "help" the were
no help. Sometimes it was an Irishman who got offended,


or a&amp;Scotchman who got drunk; or some other specimen of
humanity who was light..fingered. Honesty, in all its senses,
was never heard of; the best man we had would just
work while we looked at him. When my father left home
idleness was the order of the day: and we poor women saw
it with helpless discomfort. I say we-I was not a woman,
hardly was Kate that in years; but sympathy and circum-
stances did the work of Time,-mowing down spring flow-
ers and ripening the grain.
" I shall not keep any servant this summer," said Mrs.
Howard, when she had apparently resolved herself into a
committee of ways and means, and had sat thinking long
and silently.
"Not keep any servant mamma! why we want another
this minute."
"Did you ever read Miss Taylor's ' I can do without it' '
she answered with a smile.
"That's all well enough mamma when you're talking of
inkstands and bonnets, but servants are another affair."
"-We will try how the rule will bear stretching," said
Mrs. Howard.
"It won't bear it mamma-you needn't think it; and
you're not able-you are doing too much now." And Kate
laid down her work and looked up earnestly.
" We had much better save in some other way, mamma."
"What other ?' I can think of none Katie.. No we will
try this; it is much pleasanter than owing money that we
cannot pay. Ezra Barrington is to live at the Lea you.
lkiow, and his wife will come and wash, or do anything else
that is needful."
"But how"-said Kate, and she stopped.
"How it will look?  Yes it will look a little odd, and
people will think less of us, but after all our own self-
respect is of more importance."
"Mamma," said Kate, "what do you think of giving up
sugar'? we could do without that, and it would save some-
thing."
My stepmother looked wistfully at the young proposer
of such retrenchments.
" It wouldn't save a great deal, dear Kate," she answered
.--" however, I am willing, but don't tell your father."

DOLLARS ' AND CENT w

192

r
4
f9
K
,Sk
t _.
E               .
d
l
t r
"S
k
Y'!
r.
i}
i
_Ss
k,
1
i
l
j ~
h
0 .
i
k
'  .
= r
.F

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

193

So we drank our tea unsweetened, and felt that we were
doing something.
Nobody knew all this, and few suspected the half of it,
for we still kept up a cheerful appearance. Miss Easy
seemed quite taken aback by our asking if she knew of a
place for Caddie.
"Why dear me !" she said, "yes ma'am, I thought you
liked her so much."
"I do likeher," said Mrs. Howard smiling, "but I don't
want her."
Miss Easy looked perplexed.
"I am going to try how we can do without servants."
"Without any servants ?" said Miss Easy.
"Yes," said my stepmother smiling, "I want to econo-
mize a little-I think we ought to do all we can for our-
selves."
"Yes ma'am, to be sure-dear Mrs. Howard I feel as if
I must do all that I can : but you cannot do more than that,
-you cannot indeed."
"Ah but you don't know us yet, Miss Easy," I said;
"we can do-a great deal when we set about it."
"Dear Gracie, yes, I do know," said Miss Easy-" I am
sure you can do a great deal, yes. But Mrs. Howard is
this really necessary.? it seems to me, yes ma'am, that
you're doing too much now. And you don't know what it
is to be without anybody-I shouldn't think you could bear
it. It's well- enough for strong country women that are
used to it, but you--and these girls-"
Mrs. Howard looked at us half in sorrow half in hesit-
tion.
"I do know it all Miss Easy-all that you might say,
all that others will say, and still I think I am right. .You
know unless we can save money though to finish some of
our beginnings they will never be profitable. And it's
only for a time,-.-.just now Mr'Howard is so harassed and
engrossed with one thing and another, that I would try
almost any means of relief; but in a few months all diffi-
culty may be over, and in the mean time a little more
exercise will not hurt us."
"No," said Miss Easy, "not while you can all smile
i'pon it so,* lut I think I can find Caddie a place-ges

I


4    1
r'
N
,r
'"v
'i '

ma'arn, I will take her myself, and then you can have her
back again any minute."
"Is that why you want to take her Miss Easy ?" said
Kate laughing.
"No," she said with a smile-"not all the why,-I
really want her on my own account."
"I intend to send Grace away till we get these matters
arranged," said Mrs. Howard; "she is going to pay Ste-
phanie a visit."
"'Are you indeed !" said Miss Easy,-" well I am glad,
and sorry too-yes very. .I think it will do her good.
But dear Gracie how we shall miss you."
"I like to be missed ma'am, as Mr. Rodney says."
" Have you heard from him lately ?" said Mrs. Howard.
"No ma'am, not very lately. You know that his bro-
ther is here ?"
"Not absolutely come?"
"Yes indeed he is, and his wife too. I saw them yester-
day."
"And I must see them to-morrow !"
"What kind of a person is his wife, Miss Easy?" said
Kate.
"Not like you dear," said Miss Caffery with an affee-
tionate smile, "nor like Grace-no not one bit. I don't
exactly know what she is like-very different from any-
thing I ever found at the Lea before," she added sighing.
"It quite made me sad to go there again, yes. But Ava.
rintha liked her very much-thought her beautiful, yes
ma'am, and so polished. I don't know," said Miss Easy--
"yes-I believe it's a kind of polish that makes my eyes
ache, and my heart too."
"Mamma," said Kate, "if she is such a sort of person
it is not worth our while to call upon her-she would not
care to see us. And then you know-"
"What do I know?" '
"You know if we are to have no servants we could not
ask her here," said Kate colouring a little.
"I should have paid but few visits in my life," said Mrs.
Howard, "if I had waited to feel sure of my welcome;
and even it your last position be unapproachable, 1atie,
we may at least do what we can."              .    .

"Quite right," said Miss Easy, "and you will think so
too, one of these days. One never regrets doing a polite
or a kind thing, no matter how it is received."
"If this were either-" said Kate. "Now Miss Easy
what are you smiling at ?"
"1To see how little you know what is andwhat isn't, I
should think," said Mrs. Howard.
"Something like that," said Miss Easy,-"yes Katie, it
is both polite and kind-to the family."
And there was no more to be said ; though as Kate
remarked, "her forgetfulness had been very natural,-she
had but looked at Mr, Carvill where he had put himself;
and that was, out of his family."
The next day we set forth to pay our respects to the
new comers. I certainly had none to pay, but the rest did
not want to leave me, and I did not want to be left-two
very obvious reasons for going.
What is there in some exquisitely fine weather to make
one feel sad ? It was one of those days of which March
has a few, that seem to embody the very quintessence of
spring,-the sky of the fairest and calmest, the grass in
the yellow-green transition, the trees softened with the
swelling buds as with the lightest veil of clothing, and
showing green or red as flowers or leaves were to come
first. In sheltered fence-corners or bank-protected hollows,
there were tufts of grass that-might have come from the
emerald isle itself; now and then a tuft of tiny white flow-
ers-quiet, insignificant little things-that the eye sought
and rested upon because it was March and not June. And
even one or two bright-faced dandelions, that had been
waked up by some extraordinary sunbeam, looked at us
smilingly from the wayside. The birds were in a twitter of
delight and consultation,-robins ind song-sparrows excited
each other; and the phoebe's gentle note of reproof, and the
crow's loud "caw" of disdain as he sat on a cedar and
bowed his head mockingly, neither calmed the spirits nor
roused the ire, of the warblers,-their dignity was safe
bound up in enthousiasm. On one bush sat a committee of
fifty robins,-in another, where two sparrows made mys-
y serious darts through the evergreen foliage, there might be
the nucleus of a nest. The scarce stirring air was as sofb

-DOLLARS AND CENTS,

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

195

194


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

L.

and delicious as if it had been laid up all winter in sachets
of satin and sweetness ;-but bouquet nor patchouli can ap-
proach the unspeakable aroma of early flowers and leaves
-that indefinable perfume that spring compounds for itself.
And yet as we breathed it in-and breaths seemed all too
short in such an atmosphere-the exceeding~ beauty of
everything brought no exhilaration, but rather sadness. It
might be the association with other spring days when our
hearts were lighter-a mind somewhat out of tone with
the season,-it might be that the beauty was too perfect.
Perfection of any kind is too near the contrast.
So we walked musingly to the Lea house, and there in-
stead of Mrs. Crown and her pleasant white apron we were
met by a man in an embroidered cap, which the weight of
responsibility, or its long tassel, had drawn very much to,
one side. Following this gentleman's flourish of head and
hand and foot, we were ushered into the room that had
been Mr. Rodney's study, and where we had taken off our
cloaks on that first Christmas.
No study now.-A guitar in one corner, a flute and cas-
tanets on the table ; a cabinet that seemed to contain more
gilding and morocco than letter-press; a large worsted
frame with a St. Cecilia who had as yet but one eye and half
a nose ; a French clock from which the dial-plate looked
forth timidly, as doubting its right to be there; and a pis-
tol, izaak Walton and Dumas at hand for light literature.
On a stand near the window sat a beautiful scarlet
Lorius, who with his yellow breast-collar, orange bilk, and
the mingling of green, purple, and violet-blue upon his
head and wings looked almost like some gay piece of patch-
work.
Mrs. Carvill Collingwood-or to carry out my father's
"good riddance," Mrs. Carvill-sat reading in a luxurious
easy-chair. No one could have mistaken her for anything
but French. A face that Aould have been handsome but
for its haughtiness, was displayed to the uttermost,-not
only was a strip of hair turned quite back, but the large
black bandeaux had also a retrograde twist, giving full
effect to the ear as well as the eye sparklers. A rather
pale complexion, and a mouth that might have been educa-
ted to sweetness, were kept. in order by a somnewht 'dis-

196

ti
1 1
F1
a  {
y5{
- L
i4
a4

197

dainful and self-satisfied little nose. She was dressed in a
light summer silk, the skirt of which -opening at the waist
and stretching away over an embroidered petticoat, spread
its soft folds upon the floor for the nestling place of a little
King Charles. His gentle, lustrous eyes looked up at us as
we entered, but the long ears still lay silkily over the shaggy
feet; till his mistress drawing in her own satin slippers,
roused him with a somewhat impatient "otez-vous !" and
came forward to meet us.
It was a doubtful coming forward, too; and the book
was still held with one finger for a mark, as if she trusted
the interruption would be short. My'stepmother's manner
was, however, hard to withstand; and Mrs. Carvill relaxed
into at least conventional pleasure at our visit, and listened
to all that was said with some attempt at interest.
. I have heard Mr. Rod-e-ney speak of you," she said
with that deliberate accentuation which the voluble French
sometimes give to our mother tongue, and perhaps meaning
to explain the long stare with which Kate and I had been
honoured.
"sQui vive ' cried the Lorius,-- gare ! gare! vive les
sans-culottes !"
" Chut !" cried his mistress impatiently. "It isnot me
Madame Howard, who teach him such remark-je ne suis
point revolutioniste-it is Mr. Carvill."
"Adieu perfide ! adieu volage !" sang the bird. "Pain!
pain! a   rsails a Versailles !-Vive le roi s'il est de
bon. foi ! II y a long temps que je l'aimait.' Plut~t' la
mort que l'esclavage! Ah 9a ira ! ah uatra !   Ia belle
France !"
Mrs. Carvill's displeasure softened at these last words,
which she had doubtless taught the bird herself, and which
he pronounced so pathetically that we were all touched ;
and with no further reproof than a muttered "si bete !" she
turned to us again, for the Lorius had seemingly had his
say. Stretching out one leg and wing to their utmost ex
tent, he shut up. his eyes, gaped, and was mute.
"You live here always?" said Mrs. Carvill to Kate.
"No-only for the' last three years."
"And you never go away-never go anywhere ?"

DOLLA1i S AND 'EN7S.


198           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"But what you do? there is not no society in this place."
" Liberty ! egalit6 ! fraternity !" cried the Lorius. ."Qui
vive ? a bas les aristocrats !"
" Cela passe !". said the lady jumping up and opening a
door,-
" Atanaise ! otez cet oiseau et faite qu'il se taise !
Well," she added, coming back to her seat, "it cannot be
that you like these person about here-in what you call
the neighbourhood?"
"Some of them I like very much," said Kate.
"You do not know them yet, Mrs. Carvill," said my
stepmother.
"C'est ce que je ne ferai jamais !" said she with a shrug
of the shoulders ; and with this' hopeful remark we "tum-
bled into a well," as Dickens has it. The little King Charles
had jumped into his mistress's lap, and lay stretched upon
the worked petticoat; while Mrs. Carvill passed his long
ears through her dainty fingers, and called him "mignon"
and "petit aimant" and "mon beau Chevalier"; and the
dog just moved his little fringed tail by way of answer.
"You know Mr. Rod-e-ney much ?" said Mrs. Carvill.
"Yes, we have seen a good deal of him.".
"And you like him?"
" Oh yes !" said we all.
Again we were treated to a comprehensive stare; and
finding the well rather too deep to be pleasant, we were
about to come away, when the master of the house en-
tered.
He was a good specimen of strong family likeness com-
bined with a great want of it,-the resemblance in feature
and voice being almost nullified by. the difference in
character; which gave a gay, heartless, matter of course
expression, to what in his father and brother had been grave,
kind, and full of meaning. He looked good-natured, too-
and rather prepossessing, but neither straightforward nor
reliable. Salutations so demure that they almost made us
laugh, a very quick, keen survey through a veil of careless-
ness, and Mr. Carvill sat down with a look that said his
mind was made up-about something.
"     _Well .ma'am," he said, "I am glad you have come to
prove the truth of my assertion that we should have some

DOLLARS AND'GETS.              199
neighbours down here. Upon my word! I havn't seen-
pray Mr. Howard are your daughters a fair representation
of the county ?"
"Really sir," said my father, who had hardly spoken
hitherto, "I doubt whether the county would choose them
to that office."
"It ought to, I'm certain of it--Miss Howard is colour-
ing with displeasure that I should even have asked the
question. Clemence, where's Louis Quatorze?"
" In the other room."
" Why isn't he here ?"
"I did not want him--he make .too much noise, Mr.
Carvill."
" What-has he been talking politics? ha, ha, he shall
have a bit of cake for that."
"For to have disturbed me ?" said the lady raising her
eyebrows.
"No my dear, for pleasing me."
"When did you see your brother, Mr Carvill ?" said my
father.
"Who, Rodney? I declare .1 don't know sir,-of course
I saw him the minute I landed, but since then-l think it
was two weeks ago-an interview with him always stands
out in such bold relief, that it's hard to locate it precisely."
"He was well?"
"Well? yes I hope so,-rather pale too, now I think of
it. Not alarmingly so, ladies-only enough to be interest-
ing,-fatigued perhaps-he's going to be the greatest
savant of the age I suppose, so we have a chance of one
star in the family.
"Only a chance ?" said my father smiling.
"Why," said Mr. Carvill answering him but looking
quietly at us, " I suppose you know best-I have seen so
little of the gentleman since he was a boy, and then you
know,-im the moral firmament of course, but. I was speak-
ing of the niental. Can't tell what sort of a star it will be,
neither,--Rodpey looked prodigiously grave, but upon my
soul I couldn't tell whether it was philosophy or mathe-
matics."
"I daresay not," said my father dryly--."I think it
would puzzle any onie to settle the question."


200            DOLLARS AND CEYTS.

"Miss Howard," said Mr. Carvill rightly' interpreting
the slight compression of Kate's under lip, "is the honour
of amusing you due to Rodney or to me ?"
My father saved her reply.
" How do you like this country life, Mr. Carvill ?" he
said; "it must be a novelty atsleast."
"Yes sir, and that's a charm it shall never lose. -It was
a dull season in town and so I just came here to see what
wanted doing for September. You don't suppose I'm keep-
ing this place for anything but a shooting lodge Mr. How-
ard 2"
" I did hope so," said my father.
"My dear sir ! a man of your sense and experience to
imagine such a thing ! Live here ? why I'd pocket the
whole concern in five minutes, if I didn't want to bag the
birds separately."
" As to sense and experience, Mr. Carvill," said my
father, "men with more than I pretend to have not only
imagined such a thing possible, but have actually done
it."
"O you mean my father," said the young man; and for
a moment there was a shade upon his face that quite came
in aid of the family likeness,-then shaking it off he said
gaily,
"All right in the abstract sir-I can comprehend how
Rodney thinks you such paragons-but you are wrong as
regards me, I assure you,-I never was meant to live at
Daisy Lea. In the first place 1 have some little regard for
my wife's liking and a most tender one for my own. Now
I do suppose that brother ofmine could establish himself,
here, and probably," said M"r 'arvill speaking slow and as
if he were contemplating possibilities, "probably he might
find all the society.he would care about. But as for me-
well, I couldn't exist-that's enough. I shouldn't have
lived through these five days but for my precious Lorius,
whom my wife has consigned to temporary banishment
because he's a little too much of a republican."
"I am afraid our neighbours would share that fault with
him," said my father-" perhaps some of them may have
a trifle more education."
"Everything in proportion you know sir," said Mr. Car-

DOLLARS AND CENTS.              201
vill. "Don't despise the neighbourhood at all--leave that
to my wife-like it very much-Squire Suydam especially,
fine old gentleman enough,--but as to living here! bless
me, I'd shoot myself first-would indeed, as gladly, as I'd
shoot a woodcock."
"I have just been wondering," said Kate, "whether you
kill the woodcock for the same reason that you say you
would kill yourself-if you .were condemned to their
habitat."
"Hardly worth while to let 'em live when it takes so
little to put 'em out of their misery," said Mr. Carvill.
"You don't mean to say that you like this place Miss
Howard 2"
"No sir, I don't mean to say anything about it," replied
Kate.
"Incroyable !" muttered our host. "I suppose you, Mr.
Howard, get along by means of your daughters, but how
on earth. they support life, is more than I can under-
stand."
"You need riot try," said Mrs. Cargill whose cold eye
had watched the laugh with which Kate and I indulged our-
selves, "it is none of your affair."
" Don't look dismal either," pursued her husban,--..
"well it's a comfort to one's philanthropy to know that
handsome young ladies can exist and be happy anywhere.
I always thought the line about 'full many a flower,' was a
poetical fiction,--but the man must have'had second sight
--and have drawn from the Miss Howards."
"It would be hard to prove that anything is wasted sir,
merely because God has pit  in one 'place instead of
another," said my father gravely. And with that We took
leave, and released Mrs. Careill's4forefinger.
"Let us go home by the lake," said my father; and
quitting thefield road for a littlepath that yet was h
a path, we skirted the bright water, which sent one i
another of its tiny waves almost to our very feet 'to greet
us. We sat down and watched them as they came up,
each sparkling and swelling with importance, then 'making
its low obeisance, and with a soft word of welcome retiring
.again behind its fellows.
"Kate," said my father suddenly, "it matter 'very little


202           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

to Farmer Collingwood now, that the waves of health and
riches rolled from instead of towards him."
She looked inquiringly but said nothing.,
"Don't you think so daughterI is he any the less
happy?"
"No indeed papa-the happier, if contrast has any
power out of this world."
" And may we not suppose that he looks back upon all
the circumstances of his life as the best possible, for him?
that his 'day and night and summer and winter' (they must
succeed each other, Kate) were of just the right temper-
ature and proportion ?"
"Yes, of course, papa.* But why do you ask me?"
"Merely because 'if these things are so' we may as well
take the comfort of them. There is no latitude on this
earth my dear, where the sun shines unceasingly, but neither
is there any where he never comes: and it is well to re-
member that 'the sailing of a cloud hath Providence to
its pilot.'"
"But papa you do not answer' my question-I do not
quite understand you."
"I thought," said my father with a look of more sym-
pathy than reproof, "I thought Katie, that you both came
from the Lea feeling a little sober,--I was afraid the power
of contrast had been too strong."
"I believe it had some effect, papa," said Kate, her eyes
filling as she spoke,-" I would not change place with the
Carvills for anything in the world, and yet there seems to
be a great deal of comfort in the abundance of means--
the perfect freedom from all embarrassments."
" I have thought so very often," said my father.
"And never to hear of a judge or a lawsuit--" said I.
" Dear Gracie," said Kate, "don't think of them now,-
I am too glad to have you go away for a while beyond their
reach."
"Come," said Mr. Howard getting off his stone,
"haven't you sat here long enough? : I believe if I am to
take the benefit of my own lessons," he added, "we had
better not pursue, the subject."
" I am sure we have as much happiness.-onthe whole
--as we used to have," said nmy stepmother.

DOLLARS AND CENTS.               203
"More," he answered. "For my own sake I would not
change places with myself as a rich man."
But there was an expression in each speaker's face, that
said faith and sense had many an encounter upon that
dearer point--" for the sake of the children."

1$no

f hf
"       I ,


204

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

CHAPTER RXXII.
I can get no remedy against this consumption of the purse.
Borrowing only lingers and lingers it outs but the disease is incurable.
SHAISPCARE.-
"T ON'T think about them"-how easy to say, how hard
1 to practise, when annoyances are in question ! For-
mer ones we could in a measure forget ; but those new
perplexities that ever sprang up by our wayside-could we
pass them by without notice ? Sometimes-rand sometimes
we took them up and bare them along with us.
"I do not want to go, in the .least," said I when the
preparations for my visit were near an end.
"Kate is going to spend one day in Philadelphia with
you," said my stepmother,-" you 'will like to go in her
company ?"
" But I wish she would stay longer-why should she go
for one day ?"
"It will do her good, and we want sundry things that
your father will have no time to get,-if he attends that
meeting of the     Society."
"Mnamma," said Kate, "was it for that he said his coat
was not fit ?"
"He wants a new one at all events," said Mrs. Howard
" and I'm sure-I'm sure I don't know how he's to get .:
just now."       ,
"I'll tell you mamma, let's sell our old cake-basket."
"O Kate !" said I, "you don't mean the one grandma
gave us?"
"That is the only one that belongs to you and me,
Gracie."
"But would you sell it 1"

a            f
j
i   t
.,
" 7
e
c
f,
.
.f
,
y
E,

DOLLARS AND CENTS.              205
"We have another, you know," said Kate, "and the old
one is not a good shape."
"I know-but I love it so much !"
"But papa wants this coat."
"Well--" said I sighing.
"What do you say, mamma?"
"I should say yes, my dear, if it were mine-you must
do nothing that will trouble your sister."
O you must not mind me."
"But see," said Kate, "perhaps papa will be able to
give us the money again before long, and then we can re-
deem our fruit-knives,--wouldn't you like that as well ?"
"No-you know I have a great fancy for old things; but
let us sell it--papa must have the coat."
So it was settled ; and when I went to Philadelphia,
Kate and the basket went too, and from the trunk it was
speedily transferred to the jeweller's counter.
Many a time one wants sympathy when it cannot rea-
sonably be looked for, yet does not the want seem lighter.
I know that it was with a feeling almost of impatience that
I watched Mr. Jewett, as he turned the cake-basket about,
eyed it with some curiosity and some little compassion for
the "dark ages" of his craft, and finally remarked, (what
business had he to remind me of it?)
"A piece of old family silver, I should judge sir,-we
don't often see such things now-a-days."
Then came question and answer, and it was 'worth so
much in ready money, and so much in other articles of plate ;
and the matter ended we left the shop both richer and
poorer than we had' entered it. The coat took but a part
of the money, and for the' rest wt debated between our
fruit-knives and some other things that had long been want-
ing, but prudence prevailed over inclination.
I know. not what became of 'the cake-basket-perhaps it
does duty as silver skewers at the table of some millionaire
who never heard of scarcity or sacrifice. The coat is long
since worn out--the "other things" have disappeared, but
the fruit-knives have not been heard of; and Kate and I
sometimes. say to each other, " our poor basket !-it is
almost a pity we sold it;adythtcolppaav
done without that coat  , n  e   htcol"aahv

r;
x:
-


206            DOLLARS AND CENTS.
Once more we resorted to such an expedient, and then
learned the wise lesson that expedients of all sorts are but
poor things-a&amp; barter of the reality for the seeming ; not
only failing to remedy the evil, but weakening the energy
which alone can.
Once more, as I said, we tried it,-while the ready money
from the first attempt yet dwelt in our minds and tempted
us;-the proposed articles of exchange were brought down
by Mr. Howard when he came for me.
It was a selection from our small stock of trinkets, and
touched me far more nearly than the cake-basket. I cared
little for the things in themselves-in fact they were most
of them either worn out, or such as we should never use ;
but if dimmed and broken, so were not my associations
with them. The hands that had touched them, the faces
they had touched, I had heard of at least; and these poor
little reminders of what had long ago perished, seemed to
help both imagination and memory. It signified little that
my mother's old watch could not be made to go-it had
kept time once, and for her, and the grasp of strange fin-
gers seemed almost sacrilegious. Mr. Jewett skewed no-
curiosity this time, but his look was methought a little
scornful as he tumbled the things about, and then declared
he could not say what they were worth, till he had, separa-
ted and weighed the gold. Even then would I have res-
cued them had the money been for me ! I had enough of
expedients.
And what did we live on all this while ?--partly on drib-
lets of former debts and property, partly,on new trifles-a
little rent here and a little business there,-not on very
much of anything. But Mrs. Howard was an excellent
manager in any circumstances, and our neighbours thought
our style of living both comfortable and pretty. So it was,
had we reached it, by some other road; but the enjoyment
of many a thing was shadowed by the preliminary "ought-
we ?" or " can we have it?--"                   .2
I realized it all the more, when after spending some time
with Stephanie in a happy forgetfulness of money and .its
long train of difficulties and doubts, I came back to Glen
Luna. Nothing had changed for the worse, but my mind -
once set free, loathed to take up again the old burden of

4p

0

DOLLARS AND CENTS-               207
dollars and cents. Neither is there much truth in that fa-
vourite maxim with some ladies, that "servants are the
greatest plagues in the universe"-a house with no servants
is more to be deprecated. However we managed pretty
well, for Mrs. Barrington was only too glad to do anything
for us, and her daughter Prudence (become 'Dency by a
little contraction and elongation) was always ready when
wanted. Indeed if for nothing else, they liked to come and
tell of the queer doings at Daisy Lea.
"Don't it beat all !" 'Dency would say. "Why Mis'
Howard, they've sent down the dreadfullest sight of dogs!
-and a man that ain't got nothin' to do but mind 'em;
and he says when they begin to hunt he feeds 'em on raw
meat to make 'em more savager."
I may notice in passing, that during my absence Mr. and
Mrs. Carvill had left the Lea, and without returning our
visit.
"You may as well tell her at once mamma," said Kate
the dray after I got home.
"Tell me what ?"
"Poor child !" said my stepmother kissing me, she
don't look as if'she could bear much. Why Gracie, have
you worn sucha face ever since you went away?"
"I don't know mamma-I suppose I am tired low: but
tell me what?"
"Did you ever hear your father talk of his being surety
with a Mr. Van Wart for somebody V"
"I believe I have."
"Well things have gone so that the sureties are called
upon to pay; and Van Wart's son-in-law Jenkinson, has
contrived to have the creditors come down upon your
father for the'whole amount."
"But he can't pay it?"
"Certainly not; and they have entered up a judgment,
and while' you were gone a sheriff came here with an ex-
oution upon all our furniture."
"Is that all ?" said I withalong breath, and really feel-
ing relieved, for the time.
"All!" said -Kate-" ooks shell              i
should think that was enough."adevrtin


20S             DOLLARS AND CENTS.
"But they didn't take them," said I casting a somewhat
blank look round the room.
"0 no," said Mrs. Howard, "and I hope they will not.
But your father was away, and this man Jenkinson came
with the sheriff and knocked at the door, and Kate let them
in; for we didn't knovy that we could do otherwise. Your
father says we had a right to keep even the sheriff out, and
that Jenkinson had no business to come at all."
"And only think !" said Kate, "he had put on green
spectacles that mamma might not recognise him! And
fhey went all over the house making a list of everything--
silver and all, and I had to go with them. And now they
have advertised the things to be sold some day next
month."
" And will papa let them'?"
"Not if he can helpit-I don't quite understand what
he means to do-get an injunction I believe, whatever that
is, till the matter can be tried."
The injunction was obtained; but though a stay of pro.-
ceedings was in one way a comfort, yet we found the sus-
pense very trying. And the courts were dilatory, as courts
always are, and months wore on; and still we looked doubt,
fully at our indoor possessions, and wondered how long we
should keep each other company. Whether all this was made
public we could not tell; but as no one ever spoke to us of
it, the contrary seemed most probable. From Miss Easy we
carefully hid all our troubles, for she had been and was still
unwell ; and though she would sometimes look earnestly
at Kate and me as we sat by her sofa, and sometimes sigh
to herself as if she saw or imagined too much gravity in
our faces ; we generally contrived to be so very bright
during the rest of the visit, that she at least did not question
us. Miss Bain would certainly have found out all and more
than all that was known of our affairs, had she been at
home ;--but while I was away, she had gone to visit some
fourteenth cousin who was as far off in geography as in
blood.
And with these sayings and doings we came-to the last
week in August.

DOLLARS AND VENTS.         209

CHAPTER XXIII.
There be some sports are painful; but their labour
Delight in them sets off: some kinds of baseness
Are nobly undergone; and most poor matters
Point to rich ends.
Tsmr.
"THEM'S come Miss Kate !":said 'Dency Barrington, as
Ishe entered our kitchen one morning while we were
washing the breakfast things: "them's all come ! and
mother said I'd best put right off and tell ye, for likely
you'd want to hear."
" Thank you 'Dency," said Kate, "but what is the news?
I did not understand."
"Mr. and Mrs. Carvill Miss Kate--they all come to the
Lea last night, and forty 'leven servants ! And father
went up he did, to see was there anything wanting, and if
they would have some of the new wheat ground; and Mr.
Carvill said he didn't know nor he didn't care-father might
ask Mrs. Carvill if he felt disposed. Father said he
shouldn't do no such a thing,-he says he don't believe Mrs.
Carvill knows where wheat comes from. Don't it beat
all, Miss Kate ?"
" Why it's rather a queer way of doing business
'Dehey."
"That's just what father says-he says it beats the
Dutch, he does. There's the most company come !"
"Any ladies ?" said I.
"O I couldn't begin to tell you Miss Grace! Father
says it beats himr to know where they'll all sleep. Ain't
it wonderful how people goes on ?" said 'Deney by way of
summing up, but we ventured no reply save a grave shake
of the head.
A few days after Mrs. larrington made her appearance.


,
i
:
°,
Y
;i
iC
!E.

"Hope you're pretty smart, Mrs. Howard and Miss
Kate and Miss Grace," said the good woman, who was
really one of the best and kindest of our neighbours.
"Yes we are very well," said my stepmother smiling
pleasantly; "and how do you do at home?"
"My children's all dreadful well'ma'am-they never had
such health. My husband he's dreadful well-too, only he's
got a little pain into his shoulder,-I tell him he's getting
old," said Mrs. Barrington, with a pleased little laugh at
the idea of imputing to Ezra anything but the most abso-
lute youth and heartiness. "'Taint no particular thanks to
anybody, neither, if he is well-if he was some folks he'd
be laid up as sure as can be."
"Is he more busy than usual?" said Mrs. Howard.
"Why he don't hardly get time to eat his victuals
ma'am.. To be sure as he says, he always was occupied
and always calculated to be, but this beats all. He could
see to the farm well enough he says, but when Mr. Car-
vill's got to be seen to at one and the same time, he don't
rightly know which foot to put foremost, he says. And
they can't one on 'em find a bird without he shows
'em."
"Mr. Carvill is very fond of gunning," said Kate.
"But don't it beat all Mrs. Howard that he ain't called
Collingwood? he can't be the Farmer's own son, likely."
"lie took his uncle's name," said my stepmother:
"Do say !" ejaculated Mrs. Barrington--" well of all
things! it don't seem nat'ral like for a person to give his
child to some one beside. He's a very pretty man too,
but it's like nothing else the way they go on up there.
And Mrs. Carvill she don't never do a hand's turn, they
say ; and the dinner ain't never ready till the chickens is
going to bed-dear knows when they go! But they say
one of the ladies is the beautifullest singer Miss Kate!.
she's got the loudest voice you ever heard."
"Has she ?" said Kate smiling.
"That's what they tell me; and Ezra says he guesses
it's true, for she's always a singin and never leaves off that
he can find out. But my ! I think they're all raving crazy
there. He goes up most mornings the first thing after.
breakfast-that is after their breakfast-and when Mr-.

Carvill sees him he says, 'Well, what's to pay now ' he
says-' is the cow mad or has one of the sheep got a fit?'
Why Miss Kate it's as true as can be."
'" I don't doubt it in the least, Mrs. Barrington," said
Kate, whose gravity had fairly given way, "but 1 couldn't
help laughing."
"Well don't it beat all ?" said our informant. "One
time be went to see about ploughing the clover meadow,
and there was a set of the gentry out on the lawn with
Mr. Carvill, so they all kinder gathered round to listen,
and Mr. Carvill he said says he, 'O plough it up by all
means,' says he, 'but I won't have no winter grain on the
farm,' says he-'just plant it with green peas and they'll
be all ready for spring,-I'm going to make my fortune
raising early vegetables. And Mr. Barrington,' says he,
' tell the old grey hen,' says he, 'that if she lays in the
wrong nest another day, I'll wring her neck off,' says he.
And they all shouted so, you've no idee !-my husband
said he was a'most mad."
"It is well Mr. Barrington is good-natured," said I
laughing.
" That's what I say, Miss Grace : I tell him he's the most
good-naturedest soul alive, or he couldn't stand it. Why it's
just only this morning that Mr. Carvill sent for him up to
the house for nothing at all but to say that he didn't be-
lieve it was good for the horses to plough afore sunrise ;
and then says he,'Mr. Barrington,'says he, 'what do you feed
the pigs with ?' says he. So my husband knew there was
somethin coming, however he says to him, 'they've had
milk all summer, Mr.Carvill,' says he, 'and now they runs in
the stubble,' says he. 'That's just it!' says Mr. Carvill.
' Well don't let 'em run there any longer,' says he, 'for I'm
certain it don't agree with them,-last night the little spot-
ted pig did nothing but squeal,' says he. And Ezra said he
had to laugh, though he felt real crabbed too."
This being the last specimen of Mr. Carvill's eccentricity,
Mrs. Barrington felt she had no more to communicate, and
therefore took leave; and we sat and smiled at each other
in a very amused state of mind.
"Mamma," said Kate, "what comes next? ironing.
'doesn't it ?"

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

210

DOLLARS AND CELYTh'.

211


212           DOLLARS AND CENTS. ;

"Not for you dear-I will iron this week, and you and
Grace may take holiday. There is but a handful of clothes."
"1No indeed-it is our work and you're not to touch it
mamma. Please go and sit down and do what you've a
mind to-we don't want your help at all. Gracie won't
you call Andy to bring some wood, and I'll put the irons
down. Now mamma you know we want exercise and you
don't."
"Well," said Mrs. Howard, "then I will finish mending
that shirt-perhaps that is as necessary as anything. I'll
tell you what, if your father don't get a piece of cotton the
next time he goes away, he will want new shirts very long
before we can get them made."
So she goes to her work and we to ours.
Imagine a long wood fire (we eschewed stoves) upon
whose sticks the flame seems to make little impression, as
it curls and twines about them; yet it blazes on, no way
discouraged, cheered by the bed of red coals beneath. And
here, like good soldiers that face the hottest of the fire,
stands a row of irons-cool to the eye, but fast losing their
original temperament beneath the mighty power of assimi-
lation. One table is before the window, and another before
the dresser; the clothes-basket between, and the ejethes-
horse " beyont," as Caddie would have said. And we make
passes at the window and dresser, and take as much trou-
ble to smooth a cap and shirt, as if they had been the
daily path of their owners. And the basket grows empty
and the horse grows full,-and the forestick breaks, and we
arrange the fire by turns; and Kate takes der irons from
the left end of the row, and I mine from the right. And
our faces are a little flushed; and an uncomfortable, soreish
feeling in our finger-ends reminds us that hot irons were not
always their playthings.  Then enter Purrer-purrer, and
jumping on Kate's table she seats herself on a small ped-
estal of warm nicely-ironed pocket-handkerchiefs, and winks
with satisfaction; and being dislodged with sundry gentle
pats, she takes to the clothes-basket, and purrs forth her
eulogium of damp sheets. And I set down my iron, and
straightening myself exclaim,
" 0 Katie! don't your back ache'? and aren't we glad to
have cool ironing days once more ?" And she replies,

DOLLARS AND CENTS-               213
us'"Isn't it very strange that the Carvills never came to see
us ?"
"Yes, but if they can be so rude they are not worth
caring for."
"Not worth caring for, to be sure; but still it would be
pleasant to be on other terms with them-seeing who they
are."
And then the irons being too cool, I seat myself upon the
corner of n'iy table while Kate occupies a like position upon
hers, and gently swinging one foot (for.mere variety's sake)
we ook at the fire and make little remarks, till Mrs. How-
ard calls from the other room,
"Gracie, what if we should have a potatoe-pie for dinner?"
"O I should like it very much; but you had better
make it Kate-you are tired."
"Not more than you are, I guess."
"But wouldn't you rather ?-"
"Why no child-go off and make it yourself. I'm sure
you have ironed more than mI"
So  make the pie ; and while it bakes we iron the last
few pieces all stamped with the pattern of the basket, and
then s  ~  little table even in the neighbourhood of the
clothe'  rse: for 'papa is not at home,' and it is 'less
trouble han to carry all the things into another room and
then bring them back. And after dinner we dress, and
Kate sings at her harp "I had ae horse and I had nae
mair," and then we walk down to the Bird's Nest,-that is
Kate and I, for my stepmother is still busy at the shirts.
"XWell," said Miss Easy with her, cheering smile, "and
what have you been tiring yourselves with to-day ?"
"Not very much with anything ma'am-we have only
been using that kind of dumb-bells which are denominated
flat-irons."
If you would only let me know !" said Miss Easy-'
byou could always have Caddie, yes, just as well as not ;
butI never can manage to guess the right day. Now why
don't you send for her'? yes."
"Because it isn't necessary at all," said Kate,-." it don't
do us any Iharm."
h"-o'' a bit'?" said Miss Easy, who had hold of my
hand: ."why this child is trembling now--yes, all over."


214             DOLLARS AND CENTS.
"INo ma'am, not all over-only my hands, because the
irons were a little heavy."
"And she will work so hard at it," said Kate.; "she
irons up all the clothes away from me."
"But it's good for me, Miss Easy," I said-" it's quite
good exercise."
"Not the best, I fear. However there is no doubt a
bright side to it Gracie-yes, if I had not seen you tried I
shouldn't know you half so well."
"And this is a very gentle trial too," said Kate,-" only
a little bit of. real life-enough to keep us from being but-
terflies. You don't suppose Miss Easy, that those same
winged rovers are half so well acquainted with honey
secrets as are the bees 1"'
Miss Easy smiled, but shook her head.
"It is strange," she replied, "that we cannot always rest
satisfied with God's dealings--they are so surely the best
that can be! And yet how I have longed to shelter you
two-yes, from   every 'touch of .real life,'-how it has
grieved me to see where the touch has fallen! Dear chil-
dren !-well, there cannot any real harm befall you, and
with that I ought to be contented."
We were all silent for a few minutes, and then wishing
to bring our friend's thoughts from graver subjects, we
detailed Mrs. Barrington's information.
"Just like him !" said Miss Easy, "never was such an.
other wild, random-headed boy as he always has been, yes
from a child."
Have you known him so long !" said Kate.
"Why my dear, yes; I lived here before they came to
the Lea-that was just after their mother's death-and
Mr. Carvill and Mr. Rodney were quite small then ;--and
as they grew older they used to come and get nuts off my
great tree, yes, they did indeed. I never liked any so well
as those they knocked down for me, and they always got
mine before they would help themselves."
"And was Mr. Rodney the same. then'?" I asked.
"Just the same-yes; always ready to do for everybody
--always gentle and affectionate-yes. And don't mean
to sa that Mr. Carvill wasn't affectionate too, but he was
*  wild and thoughtless, yes very. Yet so long as he staid at

K'

DOLLARS AND cENTS-          215

home he did pretty well, but then you see," continued
Miss Easy, "when they went to college Mr. Carvill went
all sorts of ways ; and he's never gone straight since."
"But how could Farmer Collingwood leave the Lea to
him ?" I said.
"'He didn't my dear; O no, it was not his-that is, it
was his but for life; and then by his uncle's will it was to
go to Mr. Carvill."
"And that was the uncle Mr. Carvill was named after."
"To be sure, yes, and they thought all the world of him,
yes. But dear me! the farm won't do Mr. Carvill much
good at this rate."
"It's well he has an honest man to deal with," said
Kate.
"lHe needn't thank himself for it," said Miss Easy-" no
not one bit; for Mr. Rodney engaged Ezra Barrington as
soon as he knew that your father would not keep him, yes.
I suppose he thought Mr. Carvill would never take the
trouble to turn him out, and that he would not be quite so
likely to ruin himself as if he chose his own farmer. But
he did not say that to me-he very seldom speaks of his
brother's doings, though I believe he's the only person who
can influence them in the least. Indeed Mr. Carvill always
looked up to him, yes; but in a queer sort of way too-as
if he couldn't help it, and they never are on anything but
the best possible terms."
"Has Mrs. Carvill ever been to see you Miss Easy ?"
said Kate.
"Why my dear child ! yes, to be sure-several times,
yes. What put that question into your head V"
"Because she has never been to see us."
"Never at all?. never returned your visit ?"
Never-isn't it odd ?"
"Very odd, yes, and very rude," said Miss Easy. "And
yet-I don't know-yes, I think I can understand it, yes.
Well you are better worth going to see than any people I
know, Katie: Mrs. Carvill loses more than you do, dear-
yes, much more."
"It isn't quite pleasant though."
"No, not quite; but there are a good many things in
this world that are not quite pleasant, yes, very many ; and


216

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

I fear you must find that out, yes, like other people. Even
you, little Gracie."
"Even I,!" said I laughing,--" why Miss Easy you
wouldn't have other people get the start of me in finding
out things ?"                                 ..
" Ah child !" she said. "But tell me, were you ironing
all day till you came here?"
"No ma'am," said Kate, "there was breakfast you kqdw,
and Mrs. Barrington ; and this afternoon I sang for a while,
and Grace studied German."'
"Most praiseworthy occupations !" said a voice behind
us, and turning round we saw Mr. Ellis-the minister of
our little church. He was rather an old man, though Time's
assistants had done more than the great innovator himself;
but if his head had grown old, so had not his heart, and the
smile that now greeted us was almost childlike in its
brightness.
" Beg your pardon ma'am," he said, shaking hands with
Miss Easy, "but after knocking -three times at your door, I
thought I might venture to let myself m."
"My dear sir !" said Miss Easy, "knock three tifnes! did
you? I am very sorry indeed, yes sir.,
"No occasion ma'am," said Mr. Ellis, "since I've got in,
-if I hadn't, we might both have been sorry together. I
needn't ask any questions of you young ladies-I ope the
half of Mr. Howard's family that is at home, is as well as
the half that is here ?"
"Papa is away sir," I said, "but I' don't know but half
the family is at home still."
"Yes, and a large half too-no disparagement to the rest.
And how are you Miss Caffery ?-better I should think,-
and when is Miss Bamn coming back?.'"          edt
" I am better to-day, yes sir; and Avarintha expected to
be here this week, yes, but I hear this morning that she has
changed her mind."
"So, so !-why she seems to like Ashton.",
0 'she is not there now, she has gone further west."
"But I should think you'd want her here," said Mr. Ellis
knitting his brows a little-" you are not well."
" 0 yes-but then she's enjoying herself so much," said
Miss Easy apologetically; "and besides, yes, I can hardly

I

DOLLARS AND UENT.

217

want anything while these children come to see me so often,
-yes, that makes up for everything."
"And how does Miss Howard like to be called a child ?"
said Mr. Ellis turning to Kate with a smile.
A'Very much," said she smiling in turn.
"And are you both learning German ?"
"Yes sir, we study it together."
"Do you know Italian Miss Kate ?"
"Only half sir,.-I did study it for a time."
"And why not now? what made you give it up ?"
Kate coloured a little-" I thought it would be of no use
to me sir, and I parted with all my Italian books. I have
been very sorry since."
" Ah that was a mistake !" said the old man gently,-." a
great mistake to suppose that any kind of harmless know.
ledge could help being useful. And yet it's the very one
that many people fall into, just when they ought to be most
clear of it,-when they are ranging themselves with those
whom the world calls not only fanatical, but illiterate and
low-bred."
"And often justly," said Kate.
"Often justly,-that is, supposing of course that you refer
to my two last adjectives. Strange! that every Christian
should not feel as wrote some old author: 'I would acquire
all knowledge, I would dowhatever could perfect mind and
character, that I might lay it all at the foot of the cross.' I
may not give the exact words, but that is the idea."
"It is seldom' that you hear a clergyman say that," said
Miss Easy smiling ; "yes, very seldom."
" Ma'am," said Mr. Ellis, bringing one hand down em-
phatically upon the other, "in my opinion clergymen are,
under a delusion that they don't pay more attention to
such things., They should not neglect 'the weightier mat-
ters of the law'--God forbid ! but manners and education
may be perfected with little more outlay than of care and
attention. Why should a man give people a chance to
pour contempt on his message, by delivering it in bad
English ?--or make his presence distasteful by the'want of
that nicety of dress and habits, which the world holds in so
great esteem ? I say not they are excusable for the sneer
or the con tempt, but such things will have their effect-
10


21~       1?OZU4R 4ND 7I1rTS.

ought to have.; and. I do know from experience 'and obser-
vation, that humanly speaking, a minister's christian efforts
are greatly furthered by the manners and conversation of
a gentleman."
'Lovely and of good report,"' said Miss Easy..
"Exactly ma'am; and lovely as the picture may be in
some respects, it will neither be of so good report. nor so
well appreciated, if the glass before it be dull and covered
with dust. Christians should-give the world no handle, no
occasion of reproach: and therefore Miss Kate I would set
very wide bounds to the field of knowledge, and go over
itin full career,-being careful always not to encroach upon
higher duties. I would not leave all the breeding and
manners and education in the hands of the world! let the
tide of christian influence be: swelled by every harmless
auxiliary."
"You would have liked Whitefield Mr. Ellis," said
Kate,-" you know he is said to have been so particular
about everything, that even when dining quite alone, he
would care for the whiteness of the cloth and the line-and-
rule arrangement of the dishes."
"Was he indeed? I don't remember to have met with
that; thank you Miss Kate for furnishing me with such a
precedent; I am exactly of his. mind. But by the way
Miss Caffery, speaking of manners and education, when do
you, expect, Mr. Collingwood home? coming for the holi-
days, isn't he ?"
" Oyes, sir," said Miss Easy with a smile, "dear me, yes,
to be sure !-before that I hope."
"Won't stay at the.Lea, will he ma'am?"'
"I don't believe there'll be any one there to stay with ;
but he'll be here, yes sir, the most of the time."
" Glad of it," said Mr. Ellis energetically-" I shouldn't
see him, once. a week if he set himself down among those
monkeys."
"Monkeys!" said Miss Easy, "why Mr. Ellis, yes sir,
they haven't got monkeys there too ?"
" My dear ma'am they've got plenty of two-legged ones
Fm sure: whether any of the real Monboddo progenitors
of our race have yet arrived, I can't say. For my part
U'd. rather see. Simon Pure than his imitators. You needn't

$

i

, ;
°r
J J
'r
i
'= s
;
. :
.Y
tw
,J
.. +
^ S
i
Y
i
4
',.S .
"i
" a.

5~
F
r
S.
w

laugh Miss Grace,--if you'll give me a clear, forcible defi-
nition of the difference between a hounuman and some of
those French servants-not to say, their masters-I'll be
obliged to you. And now goodnight Miss Easy, goodnight
young ladies, and success to all learned enterprises. A
woman's mind is far too good and valuable a thing to be
given up to housekeeping. Mind, I say given up,-bread
and butter in its place; but keep a place too for 'pic-
tures, taste, Shakspeare, and the musical glasses."'

F-

DOLLARS AND CEN Ts.

pis

Y

,
_
'
t


d
ws
5 ,
Y
{
S

221

CHAPTER XXIV.
f see a column of slow-rising smoke
O'ertop the lofty wood that skirts the wild.
CowPER.
IT was October-with all the peaceful fairness of its blue
skies, and all the frosty stillness of its nights; and the
dainty colouring of its woodland that might have vied with
the Lorius at Daisy Lea. Nor woodland alone ; for while
the lawn and sheltered hill-side were yet green and unfrost-
bitten, there was many an acre that chewed brown from the
recent ploughing, and many a field where, despite Mr. Car-
vill's prohibition, his Suidce yet gleaned among the yellow
stubble. The locusts had long forsaken the, great maple
before our house, and in their stead a few katy-dids began
to sing as soon after sunrise as they could get warm enough.
Poor things ! their slow doubtful "ka-ty-did !" told of cold
weather: my father said it quite made his heart ache;
though as we laughingly reminded him, it was not many
weeks since he would have drowned them all in the Red
Sea if he could. As for the dapper little brown crickets,
they were facing life bravely ; as cheery and hopeful in
chirp and gait as if they were nothing daunted by the white
frost--nothing doubtful of spending a most agreeable under-
ground winter,-they prepared for it daily. The spring
birds had forsaken us, and now came visiters-a flock. of
robins to breakfast on our lawn, or a little band of ruby-
crowned wrens to take a night's lodging in our evergreens.
Sometimes too, the sky would be speckled with crows, in
numbers that distanced all arithmetic,-whirling, cawing
and .clamouring as in debate when to go south; or perhaps
as to which should go and which stay,--for we were never
without some black representatives in our feathered con-

gress. Then came an arrival of my pet:black-caps; or a
sulky looking butcher-bird; and then another set of stran-
gers that kept me puzzling and wishing for Audubon.
Well it was such weather; and Mr. Howard sat looking
out at the artemisias and alyssum and xeranthemums, that
with the help of mignionette and a late rose or two, kept
up their end of the world's progress; and the lake was but
another sapphire set in a gold ring of autumn woods; and
the wind like nothing in the world but sighs-for the past,
for the future-indefinite sighs that come from a heart too
full, of it doesn't know what; and my father looking out at
all this, drew one breath that was but-too definite, and said'
"There seems to be no end of weariness and vexation !"
" Is anything new the matter, papa?" said Kate.
"Why nothing new as to its being weariness and vexa-
tion-I have got a further development of the same."
."About what, papa ?"
"it's not worth while to trouble you all with it," was the
somewhat gloomy reply.
"Yes it is," said Kate,-"if you fold up a black sheet of
paper it will look very dark indeed ; but open and hold it
before our faces papa, it won't be more than grey at the
most, and who knows what bright specks may appear ?"
My father smiled. "Well," he said, "it would be a
dark sheet indeed that your faces couldn't light up. This is
not anything so very bad, neither, if it didn't come on top
of everything else. But that man Curtis who bought the
far  near Wiamee and has beert living on it ever since,
n   says that he can't pay for it, nor even rent for the time
he has been in."
"Is this Mr. McLoon's doing ?" said my stepmother
" No, I think not, for I had talked with Curtis, and he
was quite willing to take my word about the title. But
he's very poor he says-I think every man is-and has lost
something somehow, and really cannot pay. So that place
is still unsold, with a considerable loss of rent."
"But why didn't you make him pay, papa?" said Kate,
for my stepmiother sat silently looking at the little fire
which sighed and flickered like our waning fortunes.
"Haven't you the law on your side ?"
"Ay ! and there it may stay. The law is an excellent

"S
i
"'-
2
i
iW.
nt
'e
'r
f

;
; Y
f
!
i
'lu4
l r
y nka
i
P' '
k
l
.Cf
?-"y
\Ym$
t~M
f
n {
P {
!

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

.DOLLARS AND CENTS.

220


4

222

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

battery for gold and silver, Kate; but it's rather too strong
to be played upon poor, flesh and blood that has lost its
wall of defence. I have suffered enough myself, to feel for
others. Curtis told me I might send a sheriff to his house,
and make what I could by the means, and that he shouldn't
blame me; but I never would visit troubles upon' a man's
family-I never could ; nor upon himself in that way. Let
him keep his home if he has nothing else to keep !-hard if
losses and law-officers must invade even there ! It makes
no difference how Curtis has behaved-his wife and children
would feel the want of furniture none the less because it
went by his misconduct. I never should sleep another
night in peace, if I thought I had deprived that poor little
dwelling of a single comfort."
I saw the big tears glistening in my stepmother's eyes,
and her look spoke a pleasure far beyond gold's bestowing,
as she said,
Surely poverty is not always hardening !"
" I don't know," said my father, shaking his head-" I
think rm pretty hard sometimes ; but a man must melt a
little among such sunbeams. You were quite right Katie
-the black sheet has faded,-faded so much that I can
even seem to see written on it old Philip Henry's trustful
saying-'there is no must be without a needs be.' Ah
one's eyes get sadly blinded sometimes! But we'll strug-
gle -on a little longer, and maybe win through yet."
"When will that suit with Mr. McLoon come on ?" said
Mrs. Howard.
"I'm sure I don't know,-there it is again ; if one could
but , have things decided one way or another; there'd be
some comfort in it. But patience, patience !
'Brought safely by his hand thus far,
Why wilt thou now give place to fear'?
How cast thou want if he provide?--
-Or lose thy way with such a guide?'
There is a full answer to every doubt-'Fear not! I am
with thee.'"
"Come children," he said' after a pause,"'brighten up!
Aren't you 'going out this fine day? take Andy and go pick
up butternuts."
" What for papa 1" said Kate smiling.

DOLLARS AND OEN''..
"What for ? exercise and fresh air. Get them thi14.
fashion if you can't .any other way. Such weather ught
to tempt everybody out."
"Suppose it should tempt you, papa."
"It must tempt me in another direction, Gracie. I
must go and see if Squire Brown has any spare -hay, at
then to ask Squire Suydam to let me have his oxen for a
day or two. I have a great mind to tell Barrington to
bay me a yoke."
"Better not," said Mrs. Howard, "you won't want thea
much this winter, and hay is so dear."
"Dear enough !-if I live to see another season, I'llstay
at home and mind my own haying. I might -as well hav
had a pitchfork for overseer as that man McKee."
" I would get rid of him," said Mrs. Howard.
Can't, my dear. I couldn't turn him away at this sew.
son, or at least if I did, it would be hard to get another.
0 he'll do well enough for the winter--I daresaf-h neas
to do right."
"You wouldn't dare say it, if you could once see Vhv
work when you are away-or rather not work," said ftiiy
stepmother; ",and I'm afraid he'll make Andy. as idle as
himself. If I were you I would send him off, and teach
Andy to do what is needful. Get Mr. Suydam to send
someone with the oxen, and I presume Mr. Carvill would
ict you have Ezra for a day or two."
"I presume I sha'n't ask him. If ever I am rich enough
Ii have Ezra for 'good,-I haven't had a bit of comfort
since he went away; and as 'to the rest Pll see."
"°But papa," said-Kate, " won't you try to get-omebody
else? some new man for the winter ? McKee is anxere old
woman."
Now among Mr. Howard's peculiarities was that of not
taking female testimony with regard to man or Man's
doings-a kind of Salic law of evidence. So in reply to
kate's request he only laughed and said,
"Don't libel your sex, my dear-I should be sorry to
think all -old women were like Adam McKee. But a I
. oid you before, P11 see about it."
*My father weut off, and Kate and I assumed 'bonnettread
baskets, and with Andy for escort began to thrad 1mh


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

woods,-keeping carefully to our own grounds however.
Threading it was: the path being sometimes a slight wear-
ing of the rock moss, sometimes a channel-like passage.
between stones and trees; while the eye caught intuitively
those trifling way-marks which the understanding could
scarce perceive.
The trees hung full of their late honours; and now and
then as we walked, a crimson dogwood leaf, or one of
bright yellow from some maple, fluttered reluctantly down:
loth to quit its free waving station for the low ground,
already gay with such trophies. The asters were luxuriant
in bloom and variety: the small white flowers of some,
and the thick purple clusters of others, forming a bright
contrast to the bending golden-rods and erect ladies' tresses..
Wintergreens carpeted the ground in spots, loaded with
their carmine berries; and bunches of other small fruit-
red, white, blue, and purple, hung from cahosh and buck-
thorn and creeper. Here and there beneath a tall chest-
nut the open burrs showed that fingers or paws had been
busy; while away on the top of some that were exceeding
straight and slim, a profusion of well-filled green pricklers
seemed to mock us with just a peep of' their brown
contents. Whatever could climb that slippery unbroken
bark, must be more akin to cats and squirrels than was
even Andy.
" How can you ever find the cows in these thick woods ?"
said Kate.
Every morning I sees where they goes, and then I goes
after them," said Andy displaying his whole set of teeth at
the perfectness of the reply. "But see, Miss Kate, there's
the chestnuts sure! .Och whillastrew ! how will I get into
it!"
And with an insane desire to ascend one of the tall
chestnuts, Andy pressed every member into the service,
and began to climb-not on all-fours but on all inches. .
"Andy! come down!" said Kate. "You will fall and
break your neck."
" Sure and it's 'meself wouldn't do that thing," said
Andy, whose limbs were beginning to assume a downward
movement that could not' be checkedand which soon
brought him to the ground with no further damage than

$1

224

D    B S A AND CENTS.

t

1 17,
f

;£-
i
l
''
r,
r.
Y
f
J
Y+
.
:
l
),
,r'
,F
j'k
"F
1
ti
"
u:
"i'
d

the tempoi-ary detention of each trousers leg about the
knee.
"Never mind the chestnuts," said Kate.
"Och, they'll be all on the ground hereafter," was the
philosophical reply as Andy examined his hands.. "Then
for a tree that had. no holt to it, that same was mighty
rough !"
"Did you hurt your Bands," said I.
"Troth and I did not, Miss-that is I did, but it's little it
hurts me itself."
We rambled on, gleaning after the squirrels, and some-
times wishing that their purveyance had been delayed a
little; but then again we saw such a picture of rural felicity
in a fur coat, that there was nothing for it but to wish him
health and happiness,-or as Andy said "success to you !
and why wouldn't you be afther throwing us down a few !"
Chestnuts were not to be had, but at length we came to
an old butternut whose white and brown branches stretched
their leafless length in the warm glow of a golden hickory.
Aloft there was neither fruit nor foliage ; but snugly em-
bedded in the long grass and fallen leaves the greenish-yel
low nuts lay in great abundance, and were to be had for
the gathering.
"Be sure I can asy get them!" said Andy, as with a
most grasping disposition he threw himself upon the butter-
nuts; and "be sure" we did; and pretty little green heaps
soon arose in all directions.
Leaving Andy to transfer these to his basket, and to re-
fresh himself with cracking and eating, Kate and I sat
down upon a lichened--rock, and took in our refreshment at
eye and ear. Behind the bit of woodland where we had
been nutting was a long stretch.of forest trees, with so
thick a sprinkling of silver pines, that it went by the name,
of the pine wood. But it was not an old forest, half a
century being perhaps the most that had rolled on since
some of the trees were hid in acorns and cones, and others
had .sprung up from the trunk of some fallen ancestor.
Before us lay a strip of greensward strewed with the yellow
butternut leaves; then came a clump of cedars festooned
with the Virginia creeper in its scarlet dress, and the cat.
briar boasting no ornament but. its- dark blue berries and

225

x
i
;,
t
~c


226            DOLLARS AD CEIVTS.
freckled leaves. Other trees, mingled with grey rocks,
feathery tufts of brake, and lively green beds of moss,
lured the eye on to where the western horn of the lake lay
glimmering and sparkling in the soft light. A black-cap
or two and a belated song-sparrow, joined issue with a
cock whose hearty crow came to us pleasantly from Mr.
Carvill's barnyard, and made the stillness perfect.
" How very lovely it is !" said Kate, with that half sigh
that comes from the hidden recesses of enjoyment.
"But it's getting so hazy-just look,-the air was as
clear as possible when we sat down here, and now it is oh
how blue."
" We often have hazy weather in October," replied Kate.
"Yes, it is blue enough, the whole landscape seems melt-
ing away into dream-land. I shouldn't wonder if I got
there myself, with such a lullaby atmosphere around me."
" There's more than lullaby in the air," said I laughing-
"it makes me very wide awake. I don't think that's haze
--it looks much more like smoke, and smells like it too,"-
and jumping up I .carefully scanned the sky. There was
nothing suspicious in the appearance of south, east or
west ; but away to the north the blue heaven had as it
were the shadow o fagolden cloud,-so slight that we
thought at first it was only a cloud ; but something ins the
light curl of its outline, together with its steady ascent,
soon told the truth: it was surely smoke, and from our
woods.
Hastily we went back to Andy, guided by the monoto-
nous tap of his stone hammer; and then walked home at a
rate which would have left gay leaves and busy squirrels
unnoticed, evg had our minds been free. But Mr. How-
ard was yet away. What was to be done ? We stood
debating the point. round the two pleasant-looking loaves of
bread that were baking at the kitchen fire, feeling as we had
often done before, that woman is very powerless out of her
own sphere; and that with so large a place and no one to
take care of it, we were in the same, predicament as the
Vicar of Wakefield's- pkiture,--" we wondered how we
should get out-we wondered still more how we had ever
got in!"
"Squire to home Mrs. Howard t  said .very unfemi.

DOLLARS AND .ENTS.           227

nine voice, 'while a corresponding hand swung open th6
kitchen door
"How do you do Mr. Barrington?" said my stepmother
with a brightening face.: "we have not seen you in a great
while."
" Thank'e ma'am, I'm  pretty smart- -'tain't my fault
neither," said Ezra in reply to her last remark, "but a
body can't be every place. Squire too deep to be spoke to,
ma'am2?"
"O he's gone to Mr. Suydam's," said Mrs. Howard.
"That's just what he oughtn't to ha' done," laid Ezra
with a tone of some vexation.
"But he'll be back soon."
"You tell him then ma'am to start for the pine wood as.
tight as he kin put: some o' them 'ere guns has gone off in
the wrong place, and the trees is a burning like seventy-
five."
" Is that where the fire came from !" cried I. "And why
in the world did Mr. Carvill go into our woods?"
"It beats me to guess why he does anything," said Ezra:
"I s'pose Washington might ha' telled-I kint. But the
woods is afire and no mistake."
"I'll tell Mr. Howard as soon as he comes," said my
stepmother.
But Ezra still kept his stand.
"The Squire never kin put 'em out himself," said he
ruminating ; .".and Mr. Carvill" (Ezra never dignified hinf
with the title of Squire,)."is in a takin to know where to
ketch patridges-I reckon he'll just have to find out-it
goes agin my cons ience to let them woods barn. But the
Squire had better come too ma'am-there won't be a hand
too much," he said aloud.
"And will you help him ?" said Mrs. Howard with an
immediate feeling of relief. " O1 should be so mueh
obliged to you !"
"There ain't nobody in the world I'dsooner help," said
Ezra, "and there's some folks I wouldn't nigh so soon."
And with one expressive little nod of his head towards
that point of the compass where Mr. Carvill was supposed
to be, Mr. Barringta strode off in the direction of the pine
wood;- adgni~shing Andy the while to " walk up. stor't."

'

f
'r
r
t
i
t
,
'v
, ,
is
t'
,
r_;
t, .,
4
5
e' {
i
.
.
:
I           .
J


228

DOLLARS AND CE.&amp;

Thither too went Mr. Howard as soon as he got home, and
with him Adam McKee ; so we were left.to guard our-
selves and the house, and to gather such comfort or dis-
comfort as we could, from the columns of smoke, their
size and drift, and from the gradual westing of the sun;
which promised no indefinite length of daylight for the
labourers.
We had talked it all over for the twentieth time, and the
loaves of bread stood brown and cooling upon the table,
when Mrs. Howard suddenly exclaimed,
"4They'll be all starved ! your father hasn't had a thing,
to eat since breakfast, and he's been on his feet the whole
time.",
"And the men can't have gone home to dinner," said I.
"O let's take them something mamma! I should like it so
much."
To think was to do; and in a little while we had fastened
up the house, and with basket and cup and pail were on our
way to the pine wood. The road led us to a cleared field
at its very edge; the forest now spurning the open ground
with a rude bluff, and now meeting it half way on a slope
of gradually increasing smoothness. Here the fire had
been left to take its course till checked by the greensward:
we could hear it distinctly as it ran along among the dry
leaves and undergrowth with the rustle of a snake, and now
and then with a quick short sound like the same creature
lapping to quench his thirst ; while a low, unbroken roar
seemed to bring tidings from all parts of the burning dis-
trict. Tidings of the fire-not those that we wanted. In
vain we listened for some other sound--there was not even
a chirp : the birds had all flown off in dismay, and the hot
breath .that came in our faces  told of no living presence.
We called-no one. answered,-there was no labourer there
save the fire. And again that same feeling of powerlessness,
with a touch of fear, crept over us.
"Mamma," said I, "if you will let me go further down
the road, perhaps I shall find them, and then I will come
back and let you know. You can rest here nicely till then
uare so very tired."
Mrs. Howard hesitated, but at last gave her consent upon
condition of Kate's bearing me compaliy, and we set forth

I

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

229

with the basket between us. The road that we took now,
was but a half-made one-little more in effect than a broad
wood path, but the free access of sun and air had kept it
grassy and free from dry leaves. As yet the fire was on
only one side, and even there had not come down the hill
which rose abruptly from the very road-side: all along the
ridge we heard and saw its progress. Now and then a shoot
of flame would leap into the branches of some .dead pine,
and little inverted cones of smoke went up fr9n many a
damp or half-burnt pile of leaves. Still no sign of any one,
and uncomfortable recollections of falling trees and suffoca.
ting smoke began to strengthen in my mind. We walked
on, then came in sight of Adam McKee, sitting on a stone
and carelessly waving his cedar-bush extinguisher.
"Where is papa ?" said Kate.
"'I dinna ken Miss."
"Where's Mr. Barrington ?"
, I dinna ken," was again the reply. "The maister said
to bide here and tent the fire till he'd come."'
Again we went forward, then turned and walked back.
"1Why child you need not look frightened," said Kate;
"don't you suppose papa knows enough to take care of
himself ?"
"i But if he should have got tired and faint, as he some-
times does ?"
"1Not at all likely-and then there's Ezra. 0 here comes
mamma to meet us."
A short consultation determined us to go together as far
down the road as we could, until stopped by the youg
growth of trees and bushes which were fast concealing the.
unfinished work of so many dollars. Again we reached
Adam, and having given him a drink of milk went on and
on. Long, and wearily and worriedly: still the road
bounded- the fire; still were blackened trees, and burning
stumps and smoke, our only companions. We stood and
called.
Hollo !" cane from the distance.
We went on joyfully-then stopped disappointed. "Is
that you, Ezra ?" called Kate.
"I used to think so," replied Mr. Barrington, as he came
down the ridge bush in hand. "1 reckon I ain't quite 'my-


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

self in this plaguey smoke. I vow! I think the old woman
cud say I was somebody else!"
We were very near saying so too.
"Where is Mr. Howard ?" said my stepmother.
"-Land knows! ma'am-he's choking himself some place,
I calculate. If Mr. Carvill was one o' them 'ere spouts of
smoke, I'd walk into him in arnest, and put him out in a
way he ain't been used to !" and stimulated by this idea,
Ezra gave furious blows with his cedar bush upon one or
two mimic volcanos, whose underground fires seemed
spreading.
"That had ought to be the Squire," he said -presently,
standing up and pointing down the road to a tall advancing
figure,-"'tain't as handsome as a pictur neither, but it's
dreadful like him."
"1Dreadful like him" it was,-coat off; face and shirt
black with smoke and the handy-work of charred twigs, a
tall cedar in his hand--my father looked like a figure from
the Hartz mountains.
"O papa !" said I, "you are tired out!"
"Pretty near it. There's no stopping this fire,-we may
as well just keep it from crossing the road, and where it
has got hold, let it burn. Don't you think so Mr. Bar-
rington ?"
Ezra took a comprehensive view of the hopelessly long
line of smoke, and then gave my father a keen glance of
his eye that made words quite needless.
"1But stop and eat something first," said Mrs. Howard:
"the fire won't get down here for a while yet."
My father took off his gloves, and first calling to Andy..
and McKee, he threw himself down on the grass and opened)
the basket.
"I don't know," said Ezra, looking at his hands as Kate
offered him a sandwich, " my wife says ashes is clean dirt,
but I'd like' to hear what she'd call t'other! However it
ain't no use to starve upon manners;" and he too sat down,
remarking that it was "as cheap sitting as standing."
Certainly if our little group was unceremonious it was
picturesque; for effect varies with circumstances, and,
that degree of roughness and irregularity which finds no
place within doors, is often the very point of a scene with-. .

0-

T
S,
x
T
t
F
f
7Y
p
a4
rs
'X
_b
T
L
+l

DOLLARS AND CE2V-         2

tai'

out. A dead tree, a dry branch among fresh ones, are
singled out by the eye (at least by mine) with particular
pleasure; and in this case it may be questioned whether
water and soap would have improved our general appear..
ance. As Carlyle says of some troop, "singly you might
have likened them to Don Quixote; in mass, they were
highly dignified ;" and the smoke had at least the art to
throw an air of congruity over what might otherwise have
been deemed irregular. For Mr. Barrington, without pre-
suming to take a seat by the Squire, had yet placed him.
self within speaking distance, and their meal was agreeably
diversified with scraps of conversation. The two others
sat further off, muttering forth information and remarks
with that low, uninterrupted murmur which an American
would seldom choose to assume, if he could: Andy's face
never losing sight of the lunch basket, and expanding most
benignly' whenever that was opened. As for us-if they
had been in Sunday or even the usual week-day trim, of
course we should have stood aloof; but being men in the
last degree of smokiness and fatigue, it was equally of
course that we should complete the picture and hand them
refreshments.
My father looked in the basket and saw it was empty,
save one sandwich; "with a smile he gave that to his next
neighbour, took a drink of milk himself instead, and then
prepared for business,
"The best thing we can do," said he, "is to fire the leaves
at the foot of this hill, and then the flames will run up and
leave the road, and we may leave it too, and go home."
He caught up a forked stick, and going to a burning
heap, brought thence enough combustion for his purpose,
and they were soon fairly set to work to meet the fire half
way. As my father had said, the flames ran up the hill,
but now and then some slight conductor of dry leaves car-
ried fire across the road, in spite of their vigilance.
"Andy!" shouted my father, and pointing to a whiff of
smoke on the =burnt side, "there is fire under that hem-
lock."
"Show me the bush sir, till I squench it," said Andy,
running up to him and away from the smoke,' and hoi g.
out his hand for my father's extinguisher.


232           DOLLARS AND CENT,.

"Get your own bush," said my father a little impa.
tiently, "I can't leave this pine tree for a minute-what
have you done with it ?"-
"It's up beyont," said Andy looking dubious and inno-
cent.
"'Tain't the only thing I'd like to see there," said Mr.
Barrington,-" get it, can't ye ? and be spry,-the bush 'll
show itself afore long, or I'm mistaken. Now Mr. How-
ard, you just sit down sir, if it's all the same to you-I'll
take what knocking up '11 answer for both on us."
"I believe I have got about enough," said my father,
"but I don't know that I am more tired than the rest of
" There'ssome of us ha'n't got enough, by a long jump,"
said Ezra with a scornful glance at the Scotchman, who,
was giving the fire the gentlest of admonitions. "Here
you, Adam McKee! just see to that smoke yonder-Andy
won't be back this side of Christmas-and I'll take a turn
at this cedar. ,Come, step round, or the fire '11 be to many
for us yet."
McKee moved off accordingly; but so little satisfactory
was his handling of the smoke, that Mr. Barrington mut-
tered,
"If t'other Adam didn't have more sense, Job couldn't
ha' stood him!"
And now the edge fire of the road gradually burned
itself out, leaving the scorched undergrowth, and heaps of
blackened leaves and twigs, and trees with a charred stripe
band to tell of its work. On the other side of that
arrow passage all was fresh and green among the pines,
and the few deciduous trees were unspoiled of their lively
hangings. The sidelong glances of the sun fell on them,
giving and taking loveliness, while the burnt region was in
the shade of evening as well as of desolation. The excite-
ment and wild beauty of the fire were all gone, except in
the few places where it had mastered some pine or hemlock,
and still wreathed them with flame and smoke to their very
branch-ends.
Itwas all safe at last, and when everything had been
onr more inspected, and all possible communication
between the green and the dry cut off, we went home ;

s
r
r
y
i
k
F
V
a

DOLLARS ALND CENTS.             233
after giving Ezra such of our thanks as could be put in
words.
"'Tain't any obligation that a chicken couldn't stand
under," he said. "My gracious ! I should ha' got sich a
combing from the old woman if I'd been up to doing any-
thing else ! And besides," added Mr. Barrington with a
near approach to a smile, "Pm afeerd I was a leetle too
glad to spile somebody's dancing, for want of -a fiddler."

.


234          LL~~Q , 1  w AN YETS'                                         OLR 1.       EN2

CHAPTER XXV.

Now westlin winds, and slaughtering guns,
Bring autumn's pleasant weather;
The muircock springs, on whirring wings,
Amang the blooming heather.
Come let us, striay our gladsomerway,
The rustling corn, th'e fruited thorn,
And every happy creature.
BURNrS.

" ND when is Mr. Carvill going to town'?" inquired my
father next morning, when he had disposed of Mr.
Barrington's first remark, that "he s'posed there wa'n't
nothing left o' the Squire, but he thought he'd just stop
down and-see."
"When does he mean to seek winter quarters ?"
"Not knowin couldn't say," replied Ezra concisely.
"And how do you feel after such a hard day's work V"
said my stepmother.
"Spry as a cricket, ma'am: my wife says I hadn't ought
to have come for the Squire at all; but I telled her I
guessed she'd find out first time she tried, that a fire in the
wood wa'n't a fire in a flower-pot."
"I can't think how it happened," said my father. "They
couldn't have been shooting in the wood itself, and the
ground beyo is low and swampy."
" They wa    the mash sir, but there's always dry stuff
lies round a fence, and that ketched first; and then the
fire kinder gin under the fence and so up."
"And what did Mr. Carvill say to your quitting him to
help me ?"
"Hum"-said Ezra with a little grunt, "his speech
wa'i't hardly worth taking down--I reckon he thought if I
wouldn't haw, he'd as good holler gee."

234

iti~

F,
r

DOLLAR       A1M    ,  B,  , i

"And is the Lea house as fp11as ever?"
"They wouldn't go-for chips!" was the emphatic re-
ply.
"They'll have to go, by anid by'? aid .Mr. Howard smi-
ling, "a little cold weather would' soon spoil -their singing
and sporting."
"Singing !" exclaimed Ezra indignantly, "'tain't nothing
in life but hollering-'da sight rather hear a chap fiddle
'Hail Columby.' And as to the sporting, if the dogs
don't have the best on it, I'm beat to know who has-I'm
sure it ain't me. Landaakes.! Squire, I'd as lief as a
spring rain that you'd seen one o' them 'ere shootin jack-
ets stick fast in the mash! it beat;general trainin all to
splinters. If I'd ha' been him, ITdha' shot every soul of
the rest of 'em, for laughing." And with this graphic
description Mr. Barrington walked away.
The Lea party seemed to bear the cool weather pretty
well,-better than we did their behaviour; for whether by
chance or on purpose, they seemed always to choose their
shooting ground as near as possible to the boundary line of
our property. Morning, noon, and night, dogs were bark-
ing and guns cracking all about us, till we began to be
afraid to venture out while such unceremonious pleasure-
hunters were in the neighbourhood.
Meantime Mr. Collingwood arrived, but took up his
abode at the Lea; partly because he thought Miss Easy
not well enough to have guests, partly, as he told her, be-
cause "it seemed best."
"Do you feel inclined to bear an old man company in a
visit to a young one, Mr. Howard ?" said our good clergy-
man as he entered our house some day or two after.
"Why, yes-"said my father, "with all my heart-'ve.
been thinking of it,-if one could only .  here except
across half a dozen--"and in the search   term suf-
f.tiently mild, Mr. Howard stopped short.
" Precisely my dear sir," said Mr. Ellis; "but it will
be hard if your and I together 'cannot get safe across .a
half dozen of anything."
"Guns included ?" said my stepmother smiling, though
tit'. somewhat doubtful expression.
"Guns' included, ma'am-by. the help ,of Dec. He'll


236          DQZLARS AND. CENTS.

find out the gunners before they fire, and eat 'em up after-
wards, if I tell him to."
" O if Dec is along that alters the case;" said Mrs. How-
ard looking at the huge mastiff; who seemed indeed as if he
would make short work with "a half dozen of anything."
Now Mr. Ellis's dog was called "Declaration of Inde-
pendence."
The weather was so fine, that after they had gone Mrs.
Howard and Kate and I, took books and work, and went to
spend the morning out of doors: choosing for our retreat
a little thicket which was open enough to admit the air's
freshness, while yet it sheltered us from the sun. And
there we sat in very quiet enjoyment, until, as Ezra Bar-
rington had expressed it, "a gun went off in the wrong
place."
We had seated ourselves not far from the bar-place that
opened upon Mr. Carvill's domains, trusting to our ears to
inform us if any one approached; but the unseen sports-
man had been so still in his movements, that our first warn-
ing was the report of his piece. We sprang up, and at the
moment a little bird fell fluttering at our feet,-flut-
tering but an instant, and then the shot's cruel work was
done: the foot was slightly drawn up, then stretched out,
and the bird lay mdtionless. Almost as motionless we
stood, breathing with that oppressed feeling which finds no
utterance; but recollecting immediately that a second shot
might follow the first, we retreated; I carrying the bird,
yet warm and hanging listlessly over my hand. It was a
wax-wing; or cedar-bird, as we often called them: the head
and throat and back of a light fawn-colour shading off into
grey, and that again into blue: the tail tipped with gam-
boge. The feathers were quite unruffled except in one little
place wher    shot had entered,-softly smoothed down,
as the bir preened himself for his last flight.
Quick as our footsteps were, we had but just cleared the
trees when we heard some one spring over the fence, and
then came an impatient,
" It must have fallen somewhere in these confounded
bushes."
We turned, and saw Mr. Carvill and a companion in
mischief.

4
t
1
1
it
lj
rr
t

DOLLARS AND CEWS.'             237
The former had evidently found more in the bushes than
he had counted upon; but a moment's hesitation gave way
to his usual easy bearing, anid he came forward and "sup-
posed we must be well, as we all looked so charmingly";
and then glancing at the bird he inquired, "how long it was
since I had taken to petting inanimate nature ?"
I made no reply, but my stepmother with more stern-
ness than she often brought to .bear upon delinquents, re-
marked,
"You may be thankful Mr. Carvill that your shot did
not take effect upon one of us."
"Upon my soul ma'am, I am thankful-remarkably so,
---wish I could think it had taken no effect except on that
little bundle of feathers, but both these young ladies look
severe in youthful dignity.' Well-' variety's charming'
-even when the 'statu quo' is so agreeable as in the case
of the Miss Howards. Miss Grace, shall I relieve you of
your affecting burden?"
' "What did you shoot it for ?" was my somewhat uncer-
emonious reply.
"What? the 'burden' ?" said Mr. Carvill, putting his
hands on his sides and looking serious,-" wanted him-did
'pon my honour. Mrs. Carvill's remarkably fond of wax-
wings-,thought she'd like one for dinner; and if her appe-
tite changed before I got home (which might happen) they
always command a good price-one to two shillings a
dozen, I think; and that would be-let me see-just one
or two cents apiece. You see even I didn't go to college
for. nothing-never forgot my arithmetic to this day."
"As your memory is so good, Mr. Carvill," said Kate,
"won't you please to remember where our house is, and to
keep as far from it as possible in future, when you are
shooting ?"
"Do my endeavour, Miss Howard-did th     rning,-.
hadn't an idea that you were anywhere in the neig bourhood
till I jumped that fence,---thought I was off t'other end of
my own grounds,-left my wits at home I suppose, to work
upon that last lecture of Rodney's. For pity's sake, ladies
all, don't tell him of my misdeeds !-between the having
killed a protege of the Miss JHowards, and the not having
brought home Mrs. Carnill's dinner, there would be nothing

~II


.ryS'Y   Q
'*  k,:
;r.
i *
;,,                   a
tt                t

left for me but:to .Iut; my walkingstick.' Hey, George ?"
he added.
"You had better cut it at once," said. his companion.
"Cut your own and welcome," replied ig. Carvill'; "but
I have some feeling, and.cannot leave Mss-Grace in such a
distressed state;of mind. Let;me see: if the. wound is mor-
tal--maybe 'twas only a feint he. took ;" and the bird, was
out of my hand befoxe-l had decided whether I would let it
go.
Ha--dead' enough; !-"--good little gun that. George-
don't suppose he had the smallest idea what was the. matter
with him... Well, if' Rodney was- safe in Cumberland, I'd
take this chez ma femmrne,, but I've. no notion of having a
rescue attempted,,--so farewell wax-wing-melancholy tro-
phy of a good shot !?' and with one powerful fling he-sent
the bird whirling over the tops of the trees.. Then kissing
the tip of his shooting-glove, Mr.. Carvill sprang over the'
fence again, and fired us a parting air-salute from the. other
side: which just.served to exhaust the small remnant of our
patience.
"He is the most unendurable man I ever saw !" exclaimed
Kate.
" O Dec !" I said; as the dog dashed in between us, "if
you had only 'been here, to give them, at least- a good bark-
ing for their pains !"
Dec flourished about with his nose to.the ground. and.
with now and then a smothered growl of discovery ordis'
approbation, as if he fully entered into my wish; and then
subsided into a very quiet dog-trot. to. follow his master
home.
"We did' not find our friend, after all," said my father,
" and Mrs.. Oarvil either couldn't or wouldn't say where he
was."
"So y Mrs. Carvill?"
"I. saw ,rs:. Carvd.i-with about as much satisfaction as
she saw me. She has taken a fair draught of Lethe since
last spring-I had.some thoughts of making Mr. Ellis in-
troduce me. Ah here comes;the very person we were in
search: of. Mr. Collingwood, we have voted you blessed
with an invisible cap."
Mr.. Colbingwood made. some light answer to this remark,

but he looked ill at ease--very grave, very sad ; so that we
scarcely knew what to talk about, lest we should touch the
wrong subject. We had established ourselves onee more
under the trees, but he declined to sit down; and though he
took past iri the conversation, it was with the air of a man
whose thoughts are far away from his woeds-very different
from his usual manner. Once I tried to call home his ab.
straction by some laughing remark about Wolfgang, but
the expression which followed his smile, seemed graver than
ever.
"I was surprised to hear from Mrs. Carvill that you
leave us this week," said my father.
"Yes sir, to-morrow."
"And when are you coming again?", asked Mrs; How-
ard.
"Not till December; unless-I may perhaps come
before."
"And then you will stay at the Bird's Nest ?"
"So I have just promised Miss Easy."
"You have seen her to-day then, and how is she ?" said
my stepmother, striking out upon what she thought must
be a safe tack.
But the shade deepened painfully upon Mr. Rodney's
face as he answered,
"I do not see much change in her, Mrs. Howard-,--she,
says she feels stronger than when I came home."
My stepmother looked at him, with that woman's eye
which reflects as truly the shadows of twilight as the dis-
tinct figures of noonday ; and saw-I could not tell what,
but merely saying that she had been out long enough she
left ,us' and went to the house. Thither- we followed her,
but more leisurely ; and Mr. Rodney assuming at least an
appearance of cheerfulness, asked Kate anme totake- a
walk with him. There was no need toi k twice, and
though our spirits had been a little damped by the con-
straint of the previous half hour, the mere exercise of get-
ting ready quitesrestored them. We came into the parlour
in a mood"too gay almost to notice the faces there, or to
perceive the pause that every tongue made at our entrances
But Kate presently recollected it.
" Mr. Rodney," she 'said when we were a little way from

t1

28qQ R AN  QD                       ATS.         2

.i1 OLLARS Ai/ D OZI 1 SO

239


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

the house, "what were you all talking about when we came
down? Mamma was telling you that perhaps you were
mistaken,-I meant to have asked her then, but something
put it out of my head."
"Will you forgive me Miss Kate, if I do not answer you
now ?" he said, as he stooped to let down the bars. .,
"I suppose I shall have to," said Kate laughing-"hap-.
pily curiosity is not one of my. ruling passions. But aren't
you taking us in the way of powder and shot ?"
"No," said he, consulting his watch, "not at this hour.
Carvill's companions in arms are not romantic enough to
shoot all day without eating, and this is about their luncheon
time."
"Don't you ever shoot, Mr. Rodney ?"
" I have done such a thing Gracie, but of late years my
taste has lain another way. Indeed I never thoroughly
liked the business; and when I found that I must 'get used
to it' before it could give me more pleasure than pain, I
came to the conclusion that I didn't wish to get used to it,
and shouldn't think so much of myself if that point were
attained."
I said we were in a gay mood, though there was no par-
ticular cause; but it was with us that happy time of life
when the heart dances to its own music-as it, never can
dance to any other ! The trying circumstances of the last.
year had but partially sobered us,-they were but a weight
put in one scale, not the long-continued strain which a last
destroys the spring of the balance, so that it never rises
again to its fair equilibrium. Thus the soberness was
quickly shaken off when past annoyances were old and the
new not come; and this was such an interval, and we were
full of enjoyment. Mr. Collingwood half caught the infec-
tion, in spite f himself as it were, and in a little while
talked and lod  d much as usual: though when after a few
minutes silence we turned to say something to him, we
could often see that both eye and mouth had resumed their
thoughtfully grave lines and expression. And yet that day
alone might have cheered any one. It was' colder than
the day of our fire in the woods, but with such a sky ! and
air that seemed almost as rarefied and sparkling as Cham-
pagne.

"Mr. Rodney," said Kate, "if I thought you would-not
be displeased, I should advance an opinion."
"You may venture," he said with a smile.
"One has no right to put oneself under a cloud in such
weather."-
"I agree to that perfectly Miss Kate-with this slight
qualification: one has as good a right in fair weather as in
foul."
"1But not so good reason ?" said Kate with the kind of
look that the sun sends through a fog.
"Voluntary clouds are unreasonable things at best," said
Mr. Collingwood, but with no perverse closing of the fog
around him; "and truly I have no excuse to plead but human
nature-that will sometimes concern itself about those
possibilities which are not its care. Gracie, here is wych-
haiel,-weren't you wishing for some yesterday'?"
"1This is one of the prettiest of our wild shrubs," said
Kate, as we broke off some of the twigs that displayed
alternately their bright yellow flowers and large brownish
yellow leaves,
" Is that the power of' 'a name'?" said Mr. Rodney.
"Partly, perhaps-or of the association the name brings
with it. But I have wished sometimes that one could re-
solve the near presence ,of things-joy and sorrow and
danger-as easily as the old diviners thought they could
find water with one of these hazel twigs."
"So do not I !" said our companion. "If I were to wish
at all, it would be for a guide to 'the wells of consolation'
-one that should point upward and not downward-and
that we have alreadly."s
"Andyet," said Kate, whom I half suspected to have a
secret purpose in wat'she said, "and yet Mr.todney if I
could tell-if I were sure of happiness to-morrow, to-day's
grief would not so much affect me."
"Well," he said, "you may be sure of it-only call
to-morrow heaven sand to-day earth.
"''Tis b* the faithi of joys to come,
Wew       a through deserts dork as night."'
His eye had' b rightened and his brow cleared, and Kate's
smile as she turned from the bush and went on, made me

f
r#
_
t
i  {J
i
Y
l

,,  ,

'240o

241

DOLLARS 7D CENTS.

t


DOLLARS AND CENTS..

sure that I had guessed right. But for some time we
walked in silence.
We had crossed a piece of woodland that skirted the
high -road, and were about to cross that too, when the gal-
loping tread of a horse came flying along at a rate that
made us pause.
"1Here is somebody who has got used to several things,
I should think," said Kate. "Apparently she has not your
ideas of self-esteem Mr. Rodney."
The apparition came on, surrounded with a cloud of
drapery that would have been graceful had it been aught
but dust,-as it was the brown steed and his rider loomed
dimly out from what seemed a most uncomfortable atmos.
pherg-it made one clear one's throat to look at them.
But the wreaths rolled gently off towards 'us, and settled
pleasantly upon our sunbonnets and dresses, when the
lady after returning Mr. Rodney's bow, wheeled her horse
and came to a sudden stop just in front of us. Dust was
certainly not the only thing with which she was familiar.
A light fowling-piece lay carelessly across her saddle, at
the side of which hung the game-bag; its contents suffi-
ciently made known by the partridge and quail heads that
hung limp and bloody through its meshes. The lady's
dress was as near an approach to shooting trim as com-
ported with the retention of petticoats: powder-flask and
shot-bag were not wanting, and our eyes ascended with
increasing wonder to the fair hair and face of the second
Miss Brown, and her little straw cap.
"Good-morning Mr. Collingwood," she said. "Will
you have the goodness to come and look at this buckle ?
I saddled my horse in such a hurry that I have been in
momentary expectation of a downfal."
" If you will permit me to say so, Miss Harriet," said
Mr. Collingwood as he obeyed her commands, "saddling a
horse is the very last thing that should be done in a
hurry."
"It was the last thing I did in mina," said the young
lady laughing, "for I was all ready'befoie'I touched him,--.-
but I always do it in a hurry, for thit matter."
"You should not do it at all then," pursued Mr. Colling-
wood.'

*

7

I"'

" Then I never should ride.-Jack's always ploughing or
something else, and the Squire won't be bothered. Can't
it ever be done fast and well ?"
"By an experienced hand."
"I wish you'd experience'my hand," said Miss Brown-
"I never had any one to teach me how. Come Mr. Col-
lingwood, say you'll ride over to-morrow and give me a
lesson."
"I must ride to Cumberland to-morrow.     There; I
believe the buckle is all right-Why didn't you make
Carvill give you a lesson before you mounted, Miss
Harriet ?"
"How did you know I had been there ?"
"'I can see a church by daylight,"' replied Mr. Rodney
smiling.
"Well but look here, why don't you compliment me on
my skill ?-shot every one of these myself," she said,
shaking the bag with its dangling appendages; "I did upon
my word."
Mr. Collingwood made no reply except by an involun-
tary step back, which to us was sufficiently expressive.
"Where are you going ?" said Miss Brown. "I haven't
half done talking to you."
"But it will not do to try a lady's patience unduly, and
I have left two waiting for me. Is there any other buckle
you wish me to examine, Miss Harriet ?"
"Half a dozen. Why bless me! what a squire of
dames you would make ! Don't you know it's always the
distressed damsel that claims most of the attention of a
true knight ?"
"Rather a sudden promotion from squire to-knight, isn't
it ?" said Mr. Collingwood, whose attention was just then
bestowed upon the horse's head-gear.
" Answer me and I'll answer you."
"It may perhaps be questioned," said he with a smile,
" whether the distressed damsel is the one who carries
powder and shot."
"You are enough to provoke anybody! Here, I'll set
your conscience at rest," said Miss Harriet riding up to the
stone where we had seated ourselves,-" Mr. Collingwood
will you please to introduce me,-Now Miss Howard wiR-

i

DOLLARS' AND CENTS.

2d3

242

1
h
e
s
r,
{4
r
}j}Tt
33
1

c
z
}f
7
k
j{
3


244            DOLLARS AND CELYTS.
yon please to excuse this gentleman while he examines
my girths and martingal ?"
"Certainly," Kate said, in a tone of such quiet good-
breeding as sounded strangely after Miss Brown's rattle;
and for which she was rewarded by as many examining
looks as that lady could spare from her older acquaintance.
" Do you know Mr. Collingwood," she went on, "I have
fairly lamed my shoulder with shooting."
"Does that never act as a preventive ?"
"Dear me no! who'd care for such a trifle ?-We had
the most splendid time to-day !-I never enjoyed anything
so much."
"I am-This martingal seems hardly needed."
"No matter.-What.are you? tired-of fixing buckles ?"
"Nay I have rather more strength of muscle than that
would imply."
"Well what are you then?" said she impatiently..
"I was going to tell you that I was glad. you had en-
joyed yourself."
" And what made you stop ?-say." "-    .
" Never push people into a corner," said Mr. Colling-
wood,-" it is dangerous. That girth is perfectly safe Miss
Harriet, and your ride home may be quite uneventful
unless -you or Peter are wilful."
"Peter's never wilful-but I am, so tell me what made
you stop,-I sha'n't let you go till you do. Why didn't
you finish your speech ?"
" I found it was like to be an untrue one, that's all," said
Mr. Collingwood smiling.
" Upon my word !-so you wish I hadn't enjoyed myself!
-well you haven't got the character of plain speaking for
nothing-that's certain. I think I won't talk.-to you any
more after that. 0 stay-who is that handsome Baltimo-
rean down yonder ?"
" What Baltinorean and where ?"
" Down yonder--at the Lea,--I don't know his name or
I shouldn't ask."
" There are three there," said Mr. Collingwood.
" Well-the handsome one."
"I do not think .either of them handsome. But Miss
Harriet I really must bid you goodemnorning."

DOLLARS AND CENTS.          245

"Answer me first-you know who he is-very tall, dark
and talkative-"
"I suppose you mean Mr. Forsyth," said Mr. Colling-
wood gravely. "I do not recommend him to your acquaint-
ance, Miss Harriet."
"I didn't suppose you would. There, I release your
hand and patience ;" and adding something which failed to
reach our ears, the young lady rode off, gathering her brown
drapery about her as she went.
Without a word except, those expressed by a deep-drawn
breath Mr. Collingwood crossed the road and entered the
pleasant shade on the other side.
" Confess that you are out of patience, for once," said
Kate laughingly as we overtook him,--" but Mr. Rodney,
there is no one left in the road to run away from now."
"I will confess and beg pardon both, after such a repri-
mand," he said with a quick smile of assurance that it was
not from us he meant to run away. "Aren't you too tired
to go any further? and you Gracie? I should think your
patience might have failed."
"I am not tired."
"Nor I," said Kate; "but perhaps you are?"
"Not with walking. I never can rest after such a con-
versation till I have walked it off. There is something very
far removed from folly and weariness in the quiet'shade of
these forest trees,-it is so pure, so peaceful, that the mind
is as much refreshed as the body."
"You wouldn't have thought our woods very peaceful
the other day-wasn't it too bad ?" said I, recollecting the
next moment that I ought not to have said it. But Mr.
Collingwood had. that happy, tact which never sees more
than the pleasant and polite side of a thing. It would have
been difficult to offend him if you had tried-impossible
to do it accidentally. So he answered my question as
simply as it had been put.
" Rather too bad Gracie, and yet it afforded me some
amusement."4
"Amusement !" I said looking up at him.
"I should have said was the means of it. Ezra Barring-
ton gave us a most striking account of the whole affair,
and I am sure you would have been amused even in the


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

midst of your sorrow. He said 'he guessed Mr. Carvill
would have felt cut up, if he had seen Miss Kate and Miss
Grace sitting on the stones and looking at the fire.' And
Gracie he thinks that your sister 'goes a little ahead of all
other young ladies'-so you must forgive him for making
me laugh."
We laughed ourselves heartily enough, at this represent-
ation, wondering privately what kind of a reply Ezra got
for his pains. And then having ascended a little hill where
the thinned trees gave us a view of the country round, we
turned to go home.
"There goes Miss Brown," I said, pointing to a dark
little cloud on the distant highway.
"Does she always do so, Mr. Rodney ?' said Kate,
"Not always just so-she generally acts in character."
"Why don't you tell her what people think of her be'%
haviour ?"
"She knows now Gracie, it would be wasting words."
"I think you are wrong, Mr. Rodney," said Kate, "she
may be just carried away by her own flightiness. I'm
sure I would thank anybody for speaking the truth to me
in  her place...
"In her place!" he said. "My dear Miss Kate if you
were anywhere near that, I am afraid I should tell you all
I think of it,-more perhaps than I have any right to.
Happily there is no danger."
"You wouldn't call it waste words, and think we were
not worth the trouble?"
"The one thing is about as possible as the other," said
Mr. Rodney smiling. "But as for Miss Brown-she
thinks advice is 'good fun', as she calls it. I have seen her
tried, or at least know that she has been,-she rather likes
to draw people into reproving her."
A slight rustling among the dry twigs made us stop and
look; and from a clump of bushes near us a hare darted
away with all the speed that fear could give,--there was
fear in the very stretch of its slight body across the ground;
and its ears lay back to their full extent, as if to take note
of our steps. In another instant our four-footed companion
had come back from contemplating a woodpecker, and had
given himself to the~ pursuit. Involuntarily I clasped my

246

I

I

I

DOLLARS AND CENTS.       24

247

hands at that disproportioned match of size and strength.
But the habit of obedience was too strong for instinct, and
Mr. Rodney's quick, decided, ' Wolfgang !" brought the
dog at once to a stand,-not willingly:- his eye sent back
a beseeching request to have the injunction taken off.
"Come !" said his master quietly, and Wolfgang turned
and walked up to us; but as his head was raised to receive
Mr. Rodney's caress, and his eye most affectionately an-
swered the word of praise from that loved voice, there was
something still in its expression which said it was a pity
his master didn't know better!
"O here is its form !" I said,-" look Kate-this little
round place at the foot of the pine tree, with the branches
hanging all over it. The leaves are warm yet! Silly
thing ! if it had stayed still we should not have seen it. It
has given itself a fright for nothing."
A little more time brought us to our own door, but our
companion refused to come in.
" We have had such a pleasant walk," Kate and I said as
we shook hands with him.
" It has been' most pleasant to me," he answered, "and
has done me more good than anything else I could have
tried.  Good-morning, I will not say good-bye till to-
morrow."
And with a somewhat slackened step, Mr. Collingwood
crossed the lawn, and took the little path that led to the
Bird's Nest.

S


248

DOLLARS AND CEYTS.
CHAPTER XXVI.
The path by which we twain did go,
Which led by tracts that pleased us well,
Through four sweet years arose and fell,,
From flower to flower, from snow to snow.
But where the path we walked began
To slant the fifth autumnal slope,
As we descended, following Hope,
There sat the Shadow feared of man.

TENNrsoN.

f OW    did we hear it! how did we bear to hear it !-I do
not know-there seems a mist over that day when my
father came in from his walk and told us, what she herself
had said: that the life-current of the best friend we had at
Glen Luna(would perhaps not last out the tide of that
swift-running year.
I say I know not how we heard it, and yet I remember
the unbelief-so hard to give up ; the bitter tears, so hard
to stay. The anxious questioning of physicians, the un-
varying reply-that those months of weakness and ill-health
had been but the gradual wearing out from which there was
no return,-the gentle drawing back of every bolt and bar
that hindered the free spirit's flight. Yet still Kate and I
hoped; in spite of the grave certainty on my father's face
-the steadfast sorrow on Mrs. Howard's; with a hope that
Phoenix like, died and sprung up again from its own ashes.
It would live-everywhere but in Miss Easy's presence.
She did not speak to us of her daily decreasing strength:
she was placid, cheerful as she had ever been ; and except
that we found her on the sofa instead of at the window or
in her garden, things seemed much as usual. But the eye
that met us as we entered the room, the quiet keeping of
our hands after the first clasp was over, said, 0 how plainly,
" Not long !"-and sometimes the 'steady, absent gaze

DOLLARS AND aECts-.

249

I

1

f

through the bay-window, spoke of other scenes with which
the mind was already growing familiar. We could have
better borne an expression that had more of earth. Much as
we had loved her for those years of sympathetic friendship,
we were drawn yet closer by the love with which she now
clung to us-even more than ever,-as deepen the waters
of a stream before the barrier that is raised to their future
progress. Miss Easy's greatest earthly comfort seemed to
be in our society. At first it was little more than the
society of heart-even our eyes shrank from encountering
hers; and many an hour passed in almost unbroken silence.
Not always,-sometimes we ventured to talk, and often
read to her; and sometimes-but that was not at first-we
sang her favourite hymns. And by degrees, as heart and
voice learned to control themselves, we grew to loving all
-especially the last-as no pleasure can be loved that is
not mixed with one drop of great bitterness.
I said there was no spring like that of life, neither is
there any autumn like that which sometimes . allows the
young heart's summer: when the leaves fall that cannot
be replaced, and the birds fly away that will never come
back. When the strearn that swept off the rubbish of
ever day life is stayed with ice which the spirit will scarce
ever have heat enough to thaw away. In the calm we had
enjoyed for several months, old annoyances seemed to
have faded out, but with this new, real sorrow, how quickly
and vividly they all revived ! We felt as if it was the fall
of everything.-=-money diminishing, difficulties increasing;
and the one friend near us whom we loved and trusted,
passing away like the rest! It is not enough tb have the
support of one's own immediate family,-a single fibre of
confidence that can take root without, fetches much com-
fort, and strengthens and refreshes all within. And the
fibre takes hold so joyously if perchance it fmnds a soil that
neither repels nor dries it up!-it is 'hard ,transplanting.
".Yes," said Miss Easy thoughtfully, as we sat by hey
one afternoon, 4yes.-we 'have loved each other very moh.
Ever since the day when this child came running in from
the woods, and stood looking io shyly and quietly at me, I
'have loved her-lved you aln. jtuI ght the Wiind had the
best hair-brush I had evter'.ee Graio, And yo~u 'oae just

P


250

DOLLARS AND CENTS.           251

.DOLLARS AND CENTS.

what you were then-yes, every one of you--only better.
What should I do without you now I"
"I wish you would let us stay here all the time, dear
Miss Easy," said Kate.
"No, it isn't necessary for me, and it wouldn't. be good
for you, dear-no, 1 am sure of it. , I won't let you be here
except in the day; at least not at present."
" We love to be here," said Kate softly ; and I looked up
and added, "Very much!" -and Miss Easy smiled her be-
lief of our words, but still repeated,
"1Not at present."
How glad we all were that Miss Avarintha was away!
how 'happy to want her bustling attentions! and though
Miss Easy never said as much, we were sure she thought it.
indeed she could hardly help feeling the different manner in
which my stepmother did everything; for putting heart out
of the question, Mrs. Howard was perfect in that very point
where Miss Bain was most deficient-" the not too much."
A blessed thing everywhere, especially in a sick room.
How quietly and thoughtfully was all arranged, provided,
or directed ! and by such counsels and example, Kate and I
became as Miss Easy declared, "the two best little mice she
had ever seen." But my stepmother could not be satisfied
that the long nights should be passed alone; and by dint
of a true woman's gentle management and persuasion she
carried her point, and came to the Bird's Nest every night
to take the place we had supplied by day. And then after
an early breakfast, Kate and I would have a quick frosty.
walk in the morning air, to find my stepmother at her
friend's side, reading or talking in a voice that carried com-
fort with it. And Miss Easy would say tearfully,
"I went to sleep with your mother here Katie, and I
dreamed that it was an angel."
. The days never seemed long when we sat there working
and talking, or listening in our turn-the bright hopefulness
of Miss Easy's face almost forbade their being sad: we
were half beguiled into her glad acceptance of whatever
God sent. But as November fairly set in-as the leaves'
lost more and more of October's bright colouring, and flut-
tered dry and shriveled from the halfstripped trees w
were the days winged !-how was the little wood-pathta

'I

we trod every morning dark with more than the sun's ab-
sence! and as his long beams looked at us over the Brown
bluff as we walked slowly home at night, they glanced
from my heart as it had been ice-bringing only a quick
feelingof pain by their exceeding brightness.
We were less constantly with Miss Easy now;,-she
could not bear to have many in her room at once, and my
stepmother being most'needed, hardly ever left it. A let-
ter from Miss Easy's own hand (she would let no one else
write it) had summoned Mr. Rodney; and he had arrived,
and did very much to help and support both patient and
nurse. Still our friend made a point of seeing us every
day, but they were quiet visits-little said on either side
except by the eye and the hand, and that little almost too
much. Many a time did Kate and I go weeping home, af-
ter one of those long looks of affection from Miss Easy, so
full of sympathy for our trembling. words, so unshrinking,
so undoubting for herself.
The last few days of November came; and with them
all the glory of Indian summer,-warm, sunny, breathless:
the remaining leaves unstirred ; the hills blue with haze.
.Even Brown bluff lost its ruggedness under the universal
veil of that soft sunlight.
We had gone rather late to the Bird's Nest, hoping first
to get some message; for without this the walk was always
one of painful forebodings: but no message came, and not
willing to wait longer Kate and I set out. No word was
spoken-the bright glory of the afternoon was oppressive--
clouds would have been pleasanter. We could not breathe
freely in that'4erfect stillness; and as we passed the white
curtains-hanging listlessly and unlooped-up now-our
steps were quickened, and I saw Kate's hand pressed upon
her heart, as if to silence that-too.
We saw no one when we first reached the house, and
going softly up stairs we entered Miss Easy's room. She
appeared to be half sleeping, and with more weariness and
prostration in her attitude than we had ever seen-the p0.
sition-of the very fingers deemed involuntary. She was a
little raised up, supported by pillows, and my stepmother's
gentle hands had arranged her hair, and tied over it one of
. these handkerchiefs which it had become second nature to


DOLLARS AND UCENT.

wear; and a very slight motion of the fringed ends was the-
only token that breath yet came through the parted lips.
We gazed fearfully for a moment, then looked round for
Mrs. Howard. She had gone to lie down; and there was
no one in the room but Mr..Rodney, who had risen at our
entrance and now stood at the other side of the bed,--a
look was our only greeting.
The windows were all open, and the warm light had found
its way even in here; and beautiful pictures lay without,-
on one side, of the lake-on the other, of meadow-land,
then our bluff, and the smoky hills beyond. Again that
painful stillness-the chirp of a bird, the rustle of some
dry leaf as it fell, were all,-=each breath that we drew was
more and more smothered; while Mr. Collingwood's watch
measured off the minutes that we were to stand there.
They were not many.-[iss Easy turned her held
slightly and opened her eyes; and her first look fell on us.
The never-failing smile came on the instant-grave, amid
all its sweetness.
"Came to see me once more !" she said, holding out her
hand. "Dear children! yes, they have been such a com-
fort !"
We stooped down to kiss her, but without venturing to
speak ; and then when we had drawn our chairs close to
the bed, she took both our hands in one of hers, and giving
the other to Mr. Rodney she again closed her eyes, and lay,
for a while quiet: the gentle pressure of the hand from
time to time, just telling that she remembered and loved
our presence.
"Katie," she said then, speaking low and at intervals,
"never allow yourself to dread anything. Ever since I lost
my Mother, one sorrowful thought has been on my mind-
that I should die alone,-and see what has come of it !-
how safely we may trust all to God's arranging !-What
could I have more ?-not one friend, but several-the:best.
-Could any sister have been like your mother-could 1
have loved my own children better than I love you
three !"-
"The love is not lost" said Mr. Rodney gently.
Again she lay still, but looking out at the bright laud.
scape and the declinng sun.

"It was from this window I saw your flag, little. Gracie
-and thought what a sister it must be for whom you took
so much trouble,--how long ago-how past! We have
been very happy together-we shall be yet happier-I
trust. 'Not lost'-  uno !-it brings some pain, but more,
pleasure. I am quite happy-I shall look for you all !"
"You are not suffering, dear. Miss Easy ?" said Kate
after another pause.
" No love-I have nothing but peace,-this weariness
only betokens rest-' from this place I cannot so much as
see Doubting Castle.'"
Another short silence, and then without opening her eyes,
Miss Easy said,
"Sing to me."
But how ?-We had commanded ourselves so far, our
hearts had been as it were locked up that no sorrow might
come forth to show itself: but that little request told so
much of the past, so much of the future, compliance was
almost impossible-it was like the touch of a master-key..
In vain Kate strove-the words would not come unless tears
came with them; and then, thoughtfully kind as ever, Mr.
Rodney gave us time, and himself began the hymn.
"Thou very-present Aid
hI danger or distress  !
The mind that still on thee is stayed,
Is kept in perfect peace."
The words, the tune, albeit the voice that sang them
steadied itself with difficulty, calmed us. There are some
feelings too high, too much above the world not to stay its
tears; and that one breath of 'things eternal' seemed to
keep down the swelling of our hearts-to carry them away
from  ' things temporal';-and s-ill clasping Miss Easy's
hand we sang to her of that faith she had 4o long practised
-that refuge she had so long sought.
"Another-" she said,-" my favourite."
Again we sang, but the words were more of life's weak-
ness-it was harder work.
"'We would see Jeaus'-for the shadows lengthen
Across this little landscape of our life,
'We would see .Jesus', our weak faith to strengthen
For the last weariness4he iumd strie.

I

252

DOLL'A1iS A&amp;D CENTS.

253


"'We would see Jesus'-for life's hand hath rested
With its dark touch upon both heart and brow;
And though our souls have many a billow breasted,
Others are rising in the distance now.
" 'We would see Jesus,'-the great rock foundation
Whereon our feet were set by sovereign grace.
Not life nor death, with all their ao'itation,
Can thence remove us if we see his face.
"' We would see Jesus!1' other lights are paling
Which for long years we have rejoiced to see:
The blessinos of our pilgrimage are failing-
We would not mourn them, for we go to thee I
"'We would see Jesus.'-Yet the spirit lingers
Round the dear objects it has loved so lons,
And earth from earth can scarce unclose-its ingers,-
Our love to thee makes not this love less strong.
"'We would see Jesus.'-Sense is all too blinding,
And heaven appears too dirn-too far away.
We would see thee to gain a sweet reminding
That thou hast promised our great debt to pay.
"'We would see Jesus !' this is all we're needing,-
Strength, joy, and willingness come with the sight.
We would see Jesus'-dying, risen, pleading;-,
Then welcome day I and farewell mortal night I"
The mind might have had its wish, for Miss Easy's face-
was clear as if all shadows of earth had fled away-as if
faith had almost given place to sight, when she said,
"Once more-' My faith looks up to Thee !'"
"My faith looks up to thee,
Thou Lamb of Calvary:
Saviour divine !
Now hear me, while I pray;
Take all my guilt away;
Oh! let me from this day
Be wholly thine.
"May thy rich grace impart
Strength to my fainting heart,-
My zeal inspire ;.
As thou hast died for me,
O- may my love to, thee,
Pare, warm, and changeless be,--
A living fire.
"While life's dark maze I tread,
And griefs around me spread,
Be thou my guide;--
Bid darkness turn to day,
Wipe sorrow's tears away,
Nor let me ever stray .
from thee aside-.

254A

DOLLARS AND C&amp;YT&amp;

"When ends life's transient dream;
When death's cold sullen stream
Shall o'er me roll -
- ear Saviour, then, in love,
Fear and distrust remove ;
Oh ! bear me safe above,-
A ransomed soul!"
It was sung-though with that nervous moving of the
lip and wavering of the voice that were controlled only
because they must be; but with the ending of the last
verse all my fortitude gave way,-I was trembling from
head to foot.
Closer Miss Easy held my hand.
"He will do that," she said-" for me-for you. ' His
covenant will he not break,'-His word cannot fail-see
that your trust fail not." She was silent a moment, ad in
that moment came the twittering of a bird under the win-
dow, clear, distinct-it was like the echo of those' last
words, "See that you trust him !"  And Miss Easy look-
ing up at us with exceeding fondness and with a smile. that
yet shone through tears, said,
"Good-night my dear children !-I must not keep you
longer."
We bent over her, and passing her arm round each of
us she kissed us once and again, and then after one more
long look, quietly closed her eyes and we left her. But as
we passed through the door we heard her say slowly,
"No more on earth !-but oh Mr. Rodney, I shall see
them in heaven !"
And hastily going down stairs Kate and I went into the
little parlour, and wept out all the smothered feelings of
that afternoon.
"No more on earth !"-she spoke true. When we met
my stepmother in the morning there was no need to ask
tidings-they were written on her face. Gentle, peaceful
as had been life, even such was death-" the golden bridge
- from earth's clay-banks to heaven's shore!"
The Indian ummer still lingered ;-as lingered the smile
upon Miss Easy's face,-loth to give place to darkness and
decay. It was there to the last,-the soul's own gilding
on its broken temple-the written receipt of all the bless-
'ings to which she had looked forward. That face might

., DOLLARS AND CENTS.

255


256

DOLLARS AND  LV 7 ..

have convinced an unbeliever ;-how strongly it repeated
to us,hSee that your trust fail not !"
In that very room where three days before we had sung
of the hope that was now perfected, we three stood look-
ing from the north window. The same golden light, the
same soft haze, the same sun sending his slant beams over
the Brown bluff; while along the little path that wound
about its base, rising and falling with the broken ground,
went the little train of dark figures. They were but few-
Mr. Ellis, my, father, Mr. Rodney, our old retainer Ezra Bar-
rington, Squire Suydam, and some of the poor countrypeo.
ple whom she had befriended, were all. We would not have
had it otherwise-we would not have had a crowd of care-
less ones :-in that. handful of men there were not more
figures than hearts; and as they now and then stopped to
change bearers, we knew it was a precious office to them
all,-knew there was not one whose foot would not go
gently over the rough ground, whose hand was not ten-
derly adjusted to its work. And so we watched them--.
sending our hearts too, with the. procession, till it had
passed round the bluff, and in all that fair prospect there
was nothing but the warm sunshine of Indian summer.

I

I1

DOLLARS A1D CiYT".

257

CHAPTER XXVII.
I passed by the walls of Balclutha, and they were desolate.
O ss lN.
T the earnest request of Mr. and Mrs. Howard, Mr.
Rodney remained with us for the few days during
which he finished and arranged all the business that had
been entrusted tohis care. It was not much. Miss Easy
had given him her cottage and all its contents, except some
parting tokens to us.. But not finding just the person he
wished to take charge of it, Mr. Rodney accepted my
stepmother's offer of storage-room for such things as were
most valuable and easily removed, and then the little abode
was securely fastened up, and left untenanted,-unvisited
save by the sighing winds and our quiet footsteps. For
Kate and I still loved to go there, and to look up at the
windows and imagine the light that once came from them;
and never did we leave the little far-off church, without
going to'the one spot near it that we loved best.
It was the night before Mr. Rodney went away; and
in that wearied. state of reaction which follows a time of
mental and bodily excitement, we were sitting. round the
fire after tea, silently musing. For a while I had mused like
the rest, and- then my thoughts came back from their wan-
derings, and were concentred upon the group around me.
What were they all thinking of? I drew a little more into
the shade of the chimney and tried to determine. My
stepmother I judged was asleep, and no wonder after what
she had gone through,-if her mind worked at all, it was
under the influence of the same fatigue which had drooped
her head upon my father's shoulder, and closed her eyes in
such quiet rest. Mr. Howard himself was very far from
sleep,-whatever his mind was debating, mine might as

i

i

I


258

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

well have threaded the labyrinths of the milky-way as the
expression of his face,-I could make nothing of it. That
did not surprise me,-I seldom could. I leaned forward to
look at Kate. She sat on a low seat at the other side of
the chimney, her head bent down and resting on her
knees; but though absolutely motionless I felt sure she was
awake ; and though the firelight shone but upon the hand
that shielded the side of her face, it seemed to me that I
read its look, even in those very closed fingers. I knew
with what steady, sobering effect our changed circumstances
had wrought, in spite of the young life that had often re-
belled against it,-I knew how very deeply she had felt this
last sorrow,-and I thought of her in our old parlour in
Philadelphia, and then as she was soon after she came to
the Glen, when she talked with my father about our neigh-
bours! How little her attitude now spoke of that touch of
pride which my father had called her only fault! But
surely the pride had taken other things with it,-I could
not look at her for a while-it grieved me.
She had not stirred when I again turned my head; but
as I watched her, a slight motion at her side caught my eye,
and as the fire blazed up I saw Wolfgang's paw, stretched
out and lying upon her dress. His head rested quietly
upon his master's foot, which the other paw protectingly
encircled,-if dogs can have presentiments, then was Wolf-
gang's position "no for naething."  But he slept profound-
ly, with only now and then a portentous long breath.. He
was the only unchanged one of the party,-the vicissi-
tudes he had seen he had wanted sense to appreciate ;
and the three and a half years since I made his acquaint-
ance might have been three and a half weeks, for all that
appeared.
Not so his master. I could see Mr. Collingwood very
distinctly though he was a little further off than the rest;
but he sat with one arm resting on the back of his chair,
and his face thus turned towards me was thrown into
full relief by his dark dress,-I thought I had never
seen there so small an amount of health and spirits. It
was not quite a year since his return from Bermuda, and
well I remembered noticing how much brightness of eye.
and manner had vanished before the experience of the pre-w

I

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

259

vious year. But then there had been the joy of getting
home, of being among friends again,-now his best friends
were not, and from the next best he was going away. Yet
never had he looked more characteristically like himself. I
could not see the eyes, they were looking down; but the
mouth wore a' singularly sweet and almost child like ex-
pression of trustfulness-of the most absolute, grave sub-
mission,-submission as it seemed to me that'regarded as
much the future as the past. I wondered to myself what
possible contingencies he could be contemplating.
Apparently my father's revery had brought him back to
the every-day walks of life, for his eyes suddenly came from
the fire to me, and next took a very particular survey of
each person present. Then quietly laying his hand upon
Mr. Collingwood's shoulder, my father said,
"Mr. Rodney, 'there's a divinity that shapes our ends,
rough-hew them how we will.' "
Perhaps the person addressed thought the words con-
veyed some slight reproof; for he coloured a little as he
looked up and replied,
"I was not ' rough-hewing' sir, believe me."
"When will you be through with-your studies ?" said
my father abruptly.
"Not for two years and more."
"And you will be living away from here all that time,
Mr. Rodney !" I said despairingly. "Do you know how
long you have been away already ?"
"I do indeed Gracie-better than you can."
"I don't know where the next two years will place us as
they roll on," said my father, "but so long as we are here
-so long as we have a home any where Mr. Rodney, it is
yours too. Will you remember my words ?"
"I could not forget them Mr. Howard," he answered
with one of his old looks of brightness and pleasure. But
it changed immediately.
" Then come to us whenever you can," said my father.
"When is your hext time of leisure ?"
"Not for some months sir, and I shall be further off this
year than I was the last. I cannot tell when you will see
me again--I dare not promise myself that it will be soon
.....here may. be several hindrances in m~y way."

r


DOLLARS AND CENTS.

"But you mustn't be hindered, Mr. Rodney," I said,-- ..
"we shall want to see you so much."
"And as Grace says," remarked Kate, "perhaps Wolf-
gang will get tired of us."
"I shall get tired of him if he does," said Mr. Rodney.
"No; that cannot be,-I fear the weariness will be on your
side, if you often indulge him with such a place as he en-
joys at present."
"It would have been unkind not to let him in tonightt"
"And other nights"-I said,-"he is never in the way,-
mamma was saying that only this morring-and papa is
so fond of dogs !"
"Well," said Mr. Collingwood with a smile at my'earn-
estness, "I am sure of Wolfgang's comfort; but remem-
ber Gracie, you have promised to let me knoW if any of
you should wish him away."
" You may be quite easy on that point," said my father.
We were alone indeed when Mr. Rodney had gone.
Not a friend in th neighbourhood for whom we cared
much-not one ; and it was fast becoming true that the
neighbourhood cared little for us. We did not regret it
that winter,-the sleighs that came were so loaded with
fashions and entertainments and new buildings, the last ar-
rivals of news from town and the arrivals that were daily
expected,-we saw them drive off. with pleasure, Mr.
Ellis was always very welcome, but he was too far off and
too busy to come often.
We had taken Caddie back: partly because we could.
not bear to have her go to strangers, partly from the belief
that Mrs. Howard's health would by no means endure such
another time of exertion. And as my father said, "We
had tried the experiment, and it didn't seem to make much
difference-we might as well be comfortable while we
could."  And that was a comfort, to the body at least;
though perhaps it gave the mind more time to bethink
itself.
0 hearts and affections ! of what stuff are they made ?-
There was no feeling, no' real loneliness in that distant
churchyard ; and yet when the weather changed for cold
driving winds and winter storms, it gave me a pang--I
never heard them without it; and even the know had lost

260

2602431

its charm, for I thought of it falling cold and thick upon
Miss Easy's last resting-place. The solitude was not felt
there, but it weighed upon me,-a constant, undefined pain
that only declared itself as some bitter blast swept eddying
round the house; or when we gathered about our little
twilight fire, that shone more on the past than the present.
The spring came-but its warm sun and springing vegeta-
tion had their contrasts,-.it was like going to some old
lookout point to see what changes a year had wrought in
the landscape. Ah how many this time ! and there was
not a flower or a bird that did not speak of them.
Kate and I had determined that the little rose-hedged
garden should not be left to utter desolation-we-could not
bear the thought. Keep it in perfect order we could not,
for it was too far away, but my stepmother agreed to. walk
there with us every afternoon, that at least the flowers
might be kept trimmed and tied up, and the more flourish-
ing weeds pulled away. It was a great pleasure to do this,
-there was, nothing in the garden with which we had not
some association-that we did not love 'for Miss Easy's
sake ; and to spend upon her favourite plants some of the
love we bore her, seemed almost a relief. Now and then
my father went with us, and applied his strong hand and
knife to the Cherokee rose, which had learned that it was a
free country.
We were there one day, smoothing the earth about the
tulip and daffodil shoots, and watching the fair and sunny-
faced crocuses that seemed almost to open wider as we
looked at them, and Mrs. Howard stood watching us;
when Ezra Barrington  came tramping along the road,
whistling his favourite "Hail Columby."  At sight of us
he checked foot and voice together, and turning about
walked up to the hedge.
"Well!" he remarked,:"that does go ahead of all I ever
see or heerd tell on! You baint agoin to dig it up, be
yu"O no, we canit do that," said Kate; "we are only
maaking it look a little nice."
Ezra gave two or three nods of his head, and then stood
in contemplative silence.
'I reckon the posies would grow a deal better if there.

26I

DOLLARS AND CENTS.

i
,


262           DOLLARS AND CENTS.

was a plough or sunthin anotherr run about amongst 'em ?"
he said at length.
"Yes indeed," I said,.looking sadly at our insufficient
top-dressing, "the ground wants much more done to it,
but this is better than nothing."  And somewhat .dis-
heartened by the recollection how little better it was, I
stooped down and began at another place.
"I s'pose it wouldn't take me long to fix it," said Ezra
ruminating.
"But you haven't time," said Kate.
"I s'pose I could find it," he replied in the same medita-
tive way,-" I never looked for anything yet I couldn't find,
'cept a four-leaved clover-and 1 don't believe that ever
had existence, though my woman says she's seen 'em.
Gracious! Miss Kate," he added energetically, and sur-
veying the little patch of ground with great contempt,
"why if I had a team in here, I'd put through it afore you
could say gee!"
"But then the plough wouldn't do," said I; "and dig-
ging is slower wtrk."
"1That's a fact !" said Mr. Barrington gravely. " I reck-,
on I could ha' made that up by myself. Well-so long's
all Mr. Carvill's work gets done 'tain't none o' his business
what else I take a notion to,-a bit o' fun 'll do me as
much good as other folks, I'm thinking. But look a here
-I can't come down to this 'ere 'ring o' roses' by myself,
-there'd be the mischief to pay, and nothing to pay him
with, neither."
"0 we would come with you any. time," said I-"when-
ever you're ready,-and be so much obliged to you Mr.
Barrington!"
" That'll work then," he answered: "'cause you see I
don't know nothin about gimcracks, and I should dig some
on 'em up for sartain. I can tell young oats with any man,
but my wife says sun-flowers is quite different-"
"'And when will you come ?" said Kate smiling.
"Couldn't say," said Ezra looking somewhat puzzled,-
"my idees ain't begun to be made up on the subject. I'll:
stop down and tell ye. I s'pose Mr. Collingwood wouldn't
have no objections? by rights he had ought to be asked-
He'd like what was done by anythin of the name o' How"

ard, and no- mistake ; but. the name o' Barrington you
see's another guess sort o' chap."
"I am sure he would be pleased," said Mrs. Howard
with a smile.
"Well-I guess likely,", said Ezra,-" it don't make
much odds-only I'd as soon not get mad with him, for
he's a leetle the smartest man I know."
The plan thus satisfactorily arranged was soon carried
out, and Ezra's sturdy arm made almost as light of the
matter as if the digging had been ploughing. And by the
time that was done, he had got so interested in the work
or the garden or us, as to spend many a grey morning
hour in the wheat-field that he might have time to spare in
the afternoon. He would interfere most watchfully to
save our hands from briars, or to uproot some dock or
mallows that had grown tall unperceived; but he never
attempted the finer work ; and would shake his head
gravely over our raking, and profess that "we beat him
gardening all to pieces !"
And so tended, the garden flourished and looked gay and
lovely as ever, save for the one shade that came from the
closed and shuttered Venetian window. And the sweet
spring wind that could there gain no admittance seemed
to come sighing back to us, to tell of the different recep.
tion it had met in former years. It touched my heart so
nearly, it found so ready an entrance there, that I could
sometimes scarce work for weeping. Wolfgang always
went with us, and would lie quietly on the grass or the
egravel-walk, contributing his share of interest' and associ-
ation.
"Miss Kate," said Ezra one afternoon, as he gave the
last blow to a support for a' Lady Banks rose, "I hope
there ain't much of the cat about me, as is always lookin
into other people's cupboards; but don't you think this here
garden could live along without you. for a spell? I'd see
that there didn't nothin mislist it."
"Why yes, FIsuppose so," said Kate looking at him in-
quiringly.
"'Cause that 'ere curiosity's exhibitin itself agin," said
Ezra, as he gave the stake a trial that embodied the spirit
Qf two or three north-westers,-." and I reckoned you

I

DOLLARS AND' DENTS.:         263


26 A         DOLLARS AND CENTS.

wouldn't care about sein it. 'Tin't likely I shall ever want
to'pull this up !"
"Mr. Garvill?" said I.
"Inever see nothin else half so curious," was the satis-
factory reply.
"Is he here now ?" said Kate.
"Come a shootin," said Ezra.
"But will he be likely to come in this direction ?"
"Couldn't say," replied Mr. Barrington. "If you'd asked
me where he wouldn't be Miss Kate, I could ha' yelled ye,
and that's to home,-walk over there any time o' day when
you'd calculate to find him, and 'tain't lUely you will. If
he knowed as much as he thinks he does, he'd be down here
straight."
"Why ?" I said-" what makes you think so?"
"HuM"-said Ezra,-" he likes to fire away at. most
anything. He ain't quite*a coon yet neither-so I thought
likely he might take you and Miss Kate for pigeons."
It was impossible to make out Mr. Barrington's under-
standing of his own words, for his gravity was impenetra-
ble ;-'-but we thanked him for his information and resolved
to profit by it. We did not indeed wish to meet Mi'. Car-
viii; and not content with absenting ourselves from the
garden, we set very short limits to our walks within our
own grounds. Vain precaution!
After a chill, cloudy day which had persuaded us to re-
main in the housp, a few late sunbeams struggled forth, and
Kate and I ran out to enjoy them. It was what the Irish
call "a "psfty" evening-soft and quiet; and wrapped in
our shawli  , rambled on from one walk to another, with
no fear of intruders so near home. But it happened that
at the same time, Mr. Carvill-whether belated or tired-
had availed himself of a short road across our premises to
his own; and we met him without even a moment's warn-
ing. As usual he had been after.game, but this day had
been unpropitious. His bag was empty, his dress looked
wet, and himself a trifle discontented. Wolfgang knew
him too well to bark, but the dignified growl and raising'
of the ears sufficiently marked his appreciation of the curi'
osity-.              .
"So," said Mr. Carvill, stopping us short as we were

1N/

DOLLARS AND LIAT&amp;
about to pass him with only abow, "so' young ladies, you
have got Rodney's dog."
"Yes, for the present;" Kate said.
"Slender piece of time, 'the present' "-said Mr. Carvill
-" for the past, by your leave Miss Howard; and for the
future I will take care of him."
"No sir," KIate answered quietly, but with no concession
in her voice.
"I haven't an idea what 'no sir' means-except in some
circumstances"-said the gentleman in an under tone. "Is
this the beginning of the 'nineteen nay-says' Miss Howard?"
"I hope fewer than that will content you Mr. Carvill,"
replied Kate in the same cool and quiet manner.
"Content go to the winds!" he said-" I'm like to have
little of it. What's to hinder my taking the dog home
with me now?"
"I must leave that to yourself sir,-but I beg that you
will not hinder our reaching home before nightfall"
And by a quick motion we passed him and walked on.
But he turned and joined us, after a vain attempt t:o make
Wolfgahg follow him in another direction,-the dog most
emphatically showed his teeth-thereby not sweetening Mr.
Carvill's temper.
"I've heard of 'Love me, love my dog,' " he remarked-
"never saw it acted out before! Am I to understand young
ladies, that I alone am to be debarred from showing my
affection i6my absent brother ?"
The smile with which Kate had greeted Wolfgang's re-
appearance in front of her, gave place to a somewhat bright
colour, but she made no reply.
"Well!" said Mr. Carvill .rather-sulkily, "silence gives
consent to something-I should like to know what ! May
I venture to inquire to whom the dog belongs? whether he
is a general assignment or a special gage-d'amiti6 ?-or is it
a system of mutual trust? I know some people used to
think it dangeroustfor ladies to walk alone."
"9I shall believe it in future !" said Kate.as she turned and
confronted her tormentor. "Mr. Carvill--"
-He stopped and stood profoundly attentive. With such
an air of deference too, of admiration, of amusement-t
was hard to tell whether lhe was most glad to have roused

,.
.        _
.
"         "


266            DOLLARS AND     1'2'YTS.
her or most vexed that she had thwarted him. Kate hesi-
tated, and the sparkling glance of her eye spent itself upon
a tuft of violets.
"Nothing you can say sir, will make any djferenee," she
went on,-"I wish you would understand that, once for
all."
" Rather a mortifying thing to understand, too!" said
Mr. Carvill-"perhaps on the whole, satisfactory. But
Miss Howard, with all submission, if what I say really
makes 'no difference'-I believe I am dull, it does not oc.
cur to me why I may not have the pleasure of saying it."
"Because I am tired of the subject," said Kate, "and
don't mean to talk about it any longer."
"Tout de bon ?" he replied, -" well-of course-if that
be so-silence! But after all I think I am fairly entitled to
an answer-your definitive Miss Howard. Am I to have
the dog or no ?"
" Certainly not !" said Kate; "he is to stay with us till
Mr. Collingwood comes for him."
".I wonder what else Mr. Collingwood will come for'?"
said Mr. Carvill impatiently turning away,-" I suppose
he'll have it, whatever it is! Good bye young ladies-
pray don't fail to guard Mr. Collingwood's "dog with all
care and tenderness-a proverb sometimes works both
ways."-And with steps that promised to give him the
benefit of all the wet bushes in his way, our unneighbourly
neighbour disappeared.
ENID OP VOL. I..

t
-
1
i
l
((5
}ti
i
f
{
i
I
1
k
ti
3
a
P
Y
3
.
r
r

s,
,
M   Y
V
f
,
Y.
a

+                                               r
'                                                                                                vl
AdL:,                                                                                 a         ,'irt
Y(                                                                                             9
,y
d   .
rw
_                                                                       : =t
-    't 4 Lti }'d
"i y'
2 t
S                       sjf
i'y"alt

.


  
            
        
         
      
    
   
