
    ----CITATION----
        Wright, Julia McNair, (1840-1903). Our Chatham Street Uncle, or, The Three Golden Balls .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8390
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Our Chatham Street uncle, or, The three golden balls 
            
               FRONTISPIECE.   Entered according to Act of Congress  tiHE N RY I ( )YT', In the Clerk's Office of the District Court ot Massachusetts. CHANDLER & CO., PRINTERS.   CONTENTS.      -  CHAPTER I.       PAGE THE TiREE GOLDEN BALLS. . . .       5 CHAPTER II. ,NAOM'S DAY .   . .  . .  .  .   49 CHAPTER III. NAOM'S EYRIE . .  . .  .  .  .  65 CHAPTER IV. OUR BiOTHER'S KExiEPER:   . .     86 CHAPTER V. THE YOUNG DISCIPLE .......        116 CHAPTER VI. THE GARNET CROSS .  . .  . . .  .  148   * 4        Cotntents. CHAPTER VII.      PAGB Two FESTIVALS ...    .-.    .  171 CHAPTER VIII. A JEWISH WEDDING .         .  22 CHAPTER IX.  OUT OF SODOM ...   .  . . .  . 253 CHAPTER X. UNDER THE THEE BALLS  .    .    287 CHAPTER XI. DISSOLVrIG VIEW  ....          809 O   O-UR CIATftAM-STREET      UNCLE. CTHAPTER I. THE THREE GOLDEN BALLS. O speak of our uncle on Chatham -,-fr y Street is not to suggest any kin- ship- between us, nor need any one infer that his wife is our aunt, or his children our cousins. Our uncle is a general sort of uncle: he is a popular uncle, noted chiefly for lending money in small sums to his needy nieces and nephews. Our uncle's first appearance is not attractive: he   6    Our Chatham-Street Uncle., is very short and very stout, he has a high nose, a small eye, and close curled hair. His pockets are always buttoned up, and his whole person would& ^not suggest charity. I cannot say that his second or third appearance would be any more agreeable than the first. He is an honorable man on the theory of Brutus, that all are honorable men; he advances the money above mentioned only on ample security, and - well, I find that this ghost of truth will not be laid -our uncle is --a pawnbroker. Having thus introduced our uncle, we will make his prpmises familiar. Indeed, as we are now to spend some time at our uncle's, taking occasional excursions into the neighborhood, let us enter his quarters with all d'ue formali- ty on a Saturday morning. Our uncle is Mr. Solomon Moses Simpson: there are nine uncles of this name on this street; which of them is our especial uncle of this tale, it is not worth while to tell. To begin at the beginning *'   The Three Golden Balls.    7 of the establishment, there is a large front door, and over it the mystic "Three Golden Balls " imported with the trade as its insignia from Germany.* It is an ancient trade, having its laws and regulations, which unfortunately are all for the benefit of the owner of the balls. Beside Solomon's front door is a window, where various articles, chiefly jewelry and sil- ver-ware, are hung up ticketed for sale. A narrow passage-way leads to a large room pro- vided with counters, where business is - busi- ness; shelves laden with pledges, rolled up .in parcels and marked; a trap-door, 'where one can go down to a cellar full of rough, heavy articles, also pledged. Almost directly above the trap-door was a wooden tube of large dimensions, reaching through the ceiling, and penetrating even to the third story. Beside all these conveniences for business, was a stall with a desk and chair, the high throne of the modern Solomon. Let us add that there were *.    8    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. three stalls near the counter, having sides but no backs, and barely large enough for one person to stand in, facing the counter, and we have described the public part of this cheerful prop- erty. From a door near Solomon's private desk, one might go into a dark entry, aild thence to a dismal kitchen, smelling extensively of onions, mackerel, and fried mutton, with frequently a redolence of soap-suds.  This kitchen blad a charming view  of a damp, nouldy, brick-paved back area, nine by twelve feet in extent. Climb up stairs from the dark entry, and you come to a dining-room and a parlor, both back rooms, small, gorgeous, and greasy. Mounting up again, the three family bedrooms; a still higher ascent, and behold the attics, occupied by  kitchen-maid and clerks. This is the whole domain of our Uncle Solomon Moses Simpson, of the '"Three Golden Balls." There is a peculiarity in Mr. Simpson's establishment that it will be well to notice: r ,   The Three Golden Balls.     9 nothing is a fixture ; the very carpets are not nailed down, and the curtains look as if they expected to be removed any moment. Noth-, ing is like ally thing else: the chairs are of all sorts and sizes; the dishes never belonged to one set. There is plenty of every thing, but every thing has fastened to it a small metal "'ticket." If any thing falls short, there is an unfailing reservoir of every thing known on earth beneath, in the second and third stories front. There are regularly re- turning periods when Solomon Simpson sweeps through his domicile, and all things suffer change, except perhaps the family beds and wearing apparel: the family jewelry is not an exception.  However, as soon as every thing has been swept out of the family rooms, plenty of other articles mysteriously settle in  their places, and ndbody seems surprised or disturbed. It is Saturday morning. The breakfast-table   10   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. is spread in thIe dingy dining-room: the service is of every imaginable kind of ware, from delf to gilt edge. There is a fine castor, a hetero- geneous collection of cutlery, a till coffee-pot, a plated water-pitcher, an undeniably silver milk-cup. The damsel from the kitcllen puts down a dish of hot cakes, and vigorously rings at the head of the stairs -a huge bell, ticketed, of course, probably the spoil of a third-class hotel. Now comes into the room a girl of eighteen, carefully helping a crippled child. She sets the cripple in a chair by the table: the child. is Hagar, Simpson; the young girl Naomi, our uncle's niece. Naomi, with a brisk hand, drew up the cur- tains, threw open the window to the entrance of the fresh October air, and by a few magical touches greatly improved the appearance of the room. Meanwhile Mr. Solomon Simpson had come in, cut the chops, and now, turning the carving knife and fork upside down, ham- *&   The Three Golden Balls.    " mered on the table with their handles with all his might. "Yes, Uncle," said Naomi, turning a fair, calm face to the impatient master of the house. , Vy dost not do de vork pefore it ist time to eat?" demanded Mr.. Simpson. 6"Mother and Judith wanted so many things she could' not get down s  oon," .ex- plained Hagar. "Put down te vindow, girl; p lt freeze us all!" cried Solomon, as his niece took her place at the head of the table. Naomi quietly obeyed, and then began to pour the coffee, standing to do so, as she was barely of middle height. Naomi's father had been an Englishman; and she was- brown-haired and fair, wtil she inherited the eyes and features of her Jewish mother.  She was scrupulously neat in her dress; her white linen collar and apron, and plain black alapacca,.conltrasting strongly with   { * - / 12    Our 'Chatham-Street \ Uncle. her tawdry surroundings. Only in the crimson net that fastened up -her hair did she betray the Jewish 'love of bright colors; and against this net, lending a glow to her fair check, a Quaker could have uttered scarcely a word. "Vere is mein vrow anld Judith?" de- ' manded Mr. Simpson, after helping liberally the small party at the breakfast-table. "They are getting dressed for synagogue," said Naomi. Mr. Simpson grunted. "Vell enough," -he said presently: " ve must do , someting. to shtop de rabbi's mout. I haves no times to pe religious, eh, Naomi?" "I wish you had," said Naomi calmly.' Mr. Simpson broke off on another theme. If IfI did he in ped likes te vimen, vere woult de business be, eh, Naomi?" and then, with- out waiting for an answer, he stuffed his mouth full of :mutton, and, rushing to the staircase, rang the bell frantically.: "Dat vill fetch 'em," he said, coming grin-             , /.'-   The Three Golden Balls.    13 ning to his seat. The first effect of the bell was to bring Rose from the kitchen. "Pring von of dem fellers from de shop to his preakfast," ordered the master of the I hdse: " dey must eat vile they caln'st.- Satitr- tay ist von puisy day for me, ell, Naomi?" , ,Vy art so silent, girl?" lie demanded presently, as his niece had only said, "Yes, uncle," to his last remark. "Art shust like 'ty mutter before she run away muit te English- man: art not thinking of runing away mit one, ell, Naomi?" "No, uncle." "Ven you runs," said M  Simpsol, taking his cup of coffee at one gulp, and piling Hagar's plate with hot cakes, "Ven you runs, Naomi, run mit a Tutchman." . "I shall not run at all, uncle." "Ach very gut; but vy ist so silent, Naomi?" "I was thinking, uncle."   "   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Vimin ant girls have no bisness to tink," said Mr. Simpson magisterially. ', Pring more cakes, Rose. Eats-de preakfast quick, mein poy," he added to his clerk, a spruce- young shylock named Daniel, oiled, perfumed, and ornamented with pinchbeck jewelry. "I have been thinking," said Naomi, ' that I could help you in the shop to-day if you like, uncle."        ' Mr. Simpson had a mouthful of cake, but  hammered applause with his fists on the table, until he was able to say, "Dat ist gut, dat i shust right: may tink day ant night, Naomi, ant vill always tink so well. Judith woult not do so much." "I'll be so lonesome," said Hagar sorrow- fully. "I'll arrange every thing nice for you before I go down, and will tell you splendid stories all this evening," said Naomi. "Evening is te vurst time for me," said Simpson.   The Three Golden Balls.    15 "I cannot stay in the shop this evening," said Naomi decidedly. "I should be too tired, and to-morrow is my Sunday. "I must have Naomi tlis evening," said [:agar. '"Vel, veil, I vill takes vat I cacn gets," said Mr. Simpson resignedly: " vimin vill always have tere vay, Naomi; " and pushing back his t chair from the table, Mr. Simpson hurried to the lower regions, whence lie soon sent up his two remaining clerks with orders to "hurry."   With these clerks came in Mrs. Simpson and Judith her daughter.   They were large, showy women, attired in thick, high-colored silks, with an abundance of jet trimming. Their magnificence was enhanced by imitation lace collars and sleeves, and -by breast-pins, ear-rings finger-rings, watches, chains, and belt-pins. Fourteen years before our story commences, Solomon Moses Simpson had come from Ger-   16   Our Chlatham-Street Uncle. many, and had soon married a widow with one daughter, Judith. Mrs'. Simpson had been a pawnbroker's widow; Solomon was a ipawn- broker himself. They hadl begun business in an humble waj far down the Bowery" as old- clothes dealerS but had swiftly risenl to the possession of the institution on Chatham Street. HE[agar, deformed from lher birth, was the only child of this marriage. Solomon was not without affection ; and whatever coulld be spared from money-making, lie lavished on Naomi his niece, and little Hagar. To use his own expression, he " got on very vell mit tc vrow ant Judith ; " and, as in full glory thley attended synagogue or promenaded Grand Street, they served the double purpose of "stopping the rabbi's mouth,:' and being walking advertisements of the flourishing business Solomon was driving. Naomi had been two years in her uncle's household. Ati   The Three Golden Balls.    17 first Mrs. Simpson had been disposed to look coldly on her as an alien and an intruder, a creature of Gentile blood and faith, not strong enough to labor as their servant, and lacking all interest in their pursuits and views; But Mrs. Simpson soon changed her mind, and regarded Naomi with great favor. In a short time after going to her uncle's, Naomi had assumed the whole care of Hagar, who had ever been greatly in  her pleasure-taking mother's way. Naomi was always on hand to wait upon her uncle, so that her aunt and  Judith could sleep and visit to their heart's content. Again: Naomi, though what her aunt considered miserably plain in her own dress, was very dextrous with her needle; and her talents in that line were in frequent requisi- tion; while, lastly, the girl did not care to keep Saturday or attend synagogue, and therefore was left on the Jewish sabbath in' fill charge of the domestic department.  Naomi had 2   18   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. always claimed Sunday, the first day of the week, as her own.  Perhaps Mrs. Simpson might have refused this time-; but the girl had a quiet way of insisting upon her rights that invariably carried the day. Her uncle re- garded her as a paragon of good sense, and generally ended every remark made in her presence with, "Eh Naomi?" and as long as Naomi did not turn the pawnbroker's par- tiality to account by getting fine dresses or jewelry, nobody found any fault with it. By means which we shall hereafter learn, Naomi had been led into the society of those whom her relatives styled "Gentiles," and had for some years attended a mission chapel; bat only within the last six months had the in- structions she had received taken hold upon her heart, and new aims and hopes had pos- session of her soul. In the Nazarene, reviled by the rabbi and Mrs. Solomon Simpson#, Naomi had recognized the Son of God, and   Th e T7hree Golden Balls.   19 King of Israel. The leaven of grace was working in her heart, and quietly altering her life. So calm and kind had Naomi ever been, that the change in her was not yet apparent to lher uncle's family. They were used to find her diligent, cheerful, and sympathizing; and she was so still. But Naomi was learning that there was something more and better in life than to drift along with the current, calmly content with being in nobody's way: she was finding out that every Christian is bound to be, as much as inll him lies, a power in the world. The child of God is not to be merely a reservoir of grace, shutting up in himself a supply, but a full and steady stream, blessing and ennobling our common humanity. This morning was the first in which Naomi had gone visibly out of her usual way. She had heretofore quietly contemned the whole system of pawnbrokery, unimpressed by her   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. '  uncle's arguments in favor of it, undiverted by its profits, holding herself aloof as far as was possible from all that concerned it.  She would neither enter the shop, nor decorate herself with any pledges.  But here' on this October Saturday, lshe was freely offering to take part in tle bustle and toil of the busiest shop-day. Solomon Moses was both surprised and delighted. When Mrs. Simpson, Judith, and the two clerks had sat down to a fresji supply ofl break- fast brought up by Rose, and Daniel had fol- lowed his employer to the shop, Hagar volun- teered the information tlhat "Naomi was going to help father down stairs to-day." "That is good sense," said Mrs. Simpson, nodding over her coffee-cup at her niece. "Since you do not keep sabbath, 'nor go to synagogue, you had better help the uncle." Mrs. Simpson, being New-York born, was without her husband's inaccuracies of expres- sion.   The Three Golden Balls.      21 "Yes," said Judith with a little sneer: " it is very convenient that you are a Christian." It is more than convenient: it is profita- ble," said the calm Naomi. "What! is father going to pay you for shop- work!" "No, but to be a Christian is profitable for the life that now is, and for that which is to come," said Naomi. Judith laughed -"Oh, I didn't know but you were going into the shop for a watch like mine." " After we've been to synagogue, we will go and buy some new bonnets," said Mrs. Simpson; " and, Naomi, you get time to-day to gather up the clothes: Rose shall wash to- morrow." "I don't want to gather up the clothes, for I think it is wicked to work to-morrow," said Naomi. " Not for Rose: she is a Jew, and will not  *  22  Our Chatham-Street Uncle. keep a Christian sabbath. She keeps to- day." "Only by walking about Grand Street, and going out in the evening; and that does not make a sabbath.  Sabbath means 'rest,' persisted Naomi. "Then we'd better, all stay in bed to- morrow," said Judith: "that will be a 'rest.'" "The way you work things, aunt, one gets no real Sabbath: it is two days for dressing up and walking about." "We'll wash and clear up tormorrow,then," said Judith. "I can't have ally thing to do with it," said Naomi. "I'm not even going to pick up the clothes for Rose. If you read the holy books to-day, and learned what the rabbi tells you, it would seem better but as it is, aunt, I can't make out ally sabbath at all." "You needn't complain: you have your own," said Mrs. Simpson. o   The Three Golden Balls.    23 "That is true, aunt; but I was thinking of you all. If you hold to the holy books, I wish you followed them." Naomi's words were blunt, but her manner was earnest and respectful. Mrs. Simpson laughed. "We shall get on as well as our * fathers did long before we were any of us born, Naomi." Rose was left to cleal off the breakfast- table, which she did in a very slovenly man- ner, being in haste to set out a luncl, and get off for a day's recreation. Mr. Simpson and his clerks were too busy to stop for a regular dinner on Saturdays: therefore Mrs. Simpson. and Judith availed themselves of the opportu- nity to dine from home, leaving Naomi to pre- side over the lunch. The grand dinner of the week was on Sunday, when some of their Jew- ish friends were always present. Naomi helped Hagar into the parlor, and established her in a faded brocatel chair,   '* + 24   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. which, after a view of high life, was hiding its dimmed splendor in a pawnbroker's shop. Our Naomi was fond of light and air; so she opened the windows, rolled up the curtains, dusted the room, set Hagar's canary's cage close to its little mistress's big chair, put a box of beads, some worsted, a pencil and some books, on the window-sill, and then, closing the window for fear her sickly cousin would get cold, kissed her good by, and said she 4 must run off to the shop. Mrs. Simpson and Judith in brilliant array, with feathers flying, parasol fringes waving, . yellow kids and lace kerchiefs freely exhibited, sailed in the dingy little parlor, nodded to Hagar, and sailed out again, glittering and rustling. 'Hagar, whom Naomi's care kept a neat little image, rested her thin, pale face on her hand, and meditated. If she were straight and strong, would she care for dress, and for walking up and down   IThe Three Golden Balls.   25 the crowded streets, or eating and drinking with the other Jews, as her mother and Judith did? Would she like to be as Naomi, waiting I on everybody, ever in demand, and never with a minute to call her own? Would it be 'nice to go to a Christian chapel, and hear of Jesus of Nazareth, who healed the sick, the lame, the blind, cleansed the lepers, and raised the dead? Did she wish she were like Aunt Anna of whom Naomi told her, old, and sitting at life's extremest limit as one might sit'by a half- open golden gate, whence glory brighter than sunshine fell around her? To her ear the tramp of feet, the faint echoes of-the city's multitudinous cries, came from the outer world: would she like to be a part -of that busy strife and turmoil and change? Thus Hagar mused in her faded chair by the gloomy back window. Meanwhile Naomi had gone up to her own room, -a room she shared with Hagar. From   26    Our Chatham-Strcct Uncle. this room she had banished as many as possi- ble of the misery-suggesting " pledges" from the shop below. It was a small room, severely plaint and scrupulously neat. There was an old-fashioned mahogany bureau there, with a black marble slab and a dimmed mirror. Naomi went to it to smooth again her already smooth hair; and getting into a reverie that was half a supplication, she let fall the brush, and stood leaning forward, hands clasped, and looking upward, transforming herself uncon- sciously into a living copy of our favorite picture of Faith before the Cross. It was only for a short space, however; for Naomi glanced about to see that all was in order, and then ran down to the shop. "Dat ish a gut girl," said Uncle Simpson. "Here ish dish counter near me: shalt have't vere can asks me all ash ist necessary. Dan- iel ant 'de oter poys ist not to ty mind, eh, Naomi?"   'The Th-ree Golden Palls.   27 No: they were not at all to Naomi's mind, though she was evidently greatly to theirs; and she at once took her appointed place at the small counter nearest her uncle. Solomon proceeded to enlighten her. "Here, Naomi, ven dey pays all as ist on te ticket, dey gets de pledge back; dad ist fair. If dey prings you a ticket for iron tings, you calls out to young Simon, te cellar poy, to fetch it up. If dey has tickets for jewelry or silver, you prings dem to me; if it ist for what I keeps above, you calls up te spout, and if de tings ist on to shelves, vilt easy find- em; eh, Naomi?" "Yes, uncle," said Naomi, endeavoring to get this mass of information arranged in her mind, and now watching the stream of comers and goers that ebbed and flowed through the small door from the entry. The door to the salesroom was half of glass, that Mr. Simpson might oversee the clerk who attended to that part of the business.    28    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Naomi could see now and then a decently attired person enter the front room, and accost the clerk.' The. young man either concluded the affair very summarily himnself, or, if com- ing upon a knotty point, jerked a little bell for aid, and Solomon fled to the rescue. Daniel. and his coadjutors treated their customers superciliously indeed: there was none of the suavity and address shown by regular shop- keepers. They snatched the article timidly 'presented, pronounced their ultimatum, leaned back, and obdurately refused to reconsider; and might have been sketched for an illus- trated rebus on - "Come on, come on: this rock shall fly From its firm base as soon as I." During the morning, there was only one deviation from, this line of action, and that was when an individual in plain clothes en- tered through the glass door. He was at once   The Three Golden Balls.   ,29  waited on by Mr. Simpson himself, who was unexpectedly behind the counter, as if that were his legitimate position, and who showed a sudden excess of caution in conducting his business, and a scrupulous exactness that was not visible at any other time that day. "Who was that, uncle?" asked Naomi, as her relative passed her on his way to his cus- tomary station. '. A detective," replied our uncle, shrugging his shoulders with a queer grimace. "Why, what did he want here?"    said Naomi the unsophisticated. "Looked in all ihde vay of hish pisness," replied Solomon nonchalantly.  Here a woman presented to Naomi a ticket for twenty cents on flatirons ; and the money being ready, Simon made a plunge into the cellar to procure them n Naomi's kind 'ace won the information from the woman, "I put' 'em in Thursday to get money to buy soap for                 .   30   Our Chatham-Street Uncle.   1 the washing I took in; and now here's the children's breakfast-money goes to get 'em out, so I can iron the clothes and get my pay." Naomi felt as if the poor twenty cents burned her fingers. E Howsumdever," said the woman, as Si- imon emerged from the realm of cobwebs, bearing the irons. -"I've got soap for next week, and the children will have their sup- per. It's nothing when you're used to it." "It's my Mary's coat," said the next claim- ant, "in for fifty. She left it for cleaning, and she'll be after it to-morrey. I'll get no' more of her wages, an' she knows I pledged - it." Naomi glanced at her uncle. A jerk of his thumb informed her that "Mary's cloak" had gone up the spou ,ta a call at the foot of the wooden tube soon brought the garment rattling down, done up in brown paper. And now came a woman with a large bun-   The Three Golden Balls.    31 dle. "A dollar on ,it," she said,'unfolding it. "It's good." Naomi glanced from the blanket to her uncle. "'I've seen it before," he said briefly: "vifty." "Only fifty! It's good, most new!" urged the wonaan. "It's our last blanket," she said to move Naomi. "The blanket hash holes in it," said Sol- omon: 4' vifty."-           . "Fifty," said Naomi, strengthened to say it, because, as she bent over the bundle to lool ,k for the holes Solomon had averred were in it, the woman's breath came to he; heavy with whiskey. "Take it," said the woman crossly. Naomi, being new to the trade, took the blanket to her un'cle to get it ticketed and obtain the money. '"Don't take it, uncle," she said hurriedly. , *   32   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "She is robbing her children's beds to buy whiskey." "Datish none of mine pisness," said Sol- omon. "De pledge vill pring vifty at te auc- tion."' The morning work in the shop was tolera- bly brisk; but when lunch was despatched, and twelve o'clock had passed,' the crowd trebled. Naomi grew sick at heart as she watched the stream of pale, pinched faces, -faces old and worn, faces anxious and timid, faces bloated and bad. Up to Naomi's counter came a lit- tle child, holding in her thi4l hands a small 'torn shawl.  "Something on this?" she whispered. Naomi, as usual, looked- at her uncle. "Netting on dat!" he exclaimed. "We ain't got nothing else to bring," urged the child. "Notting on dat," said Solomon the in- exorable.   The Threes Golden Balls.    83 "We're so hungry: mother's off on a' spree," said the small customer.  "Take it avay: te mutter ish not mine pis- ness," said Solomon. Naomi handed back the shawl, but slipped ten cents from her own pocket into her little client's blue: fingers. The child darted off through the crowded shop; and Naomi turned, as Daniel, near her, said, "There's a green one: never been in a pawnbroker's shop before." Naomni looked towards the subject f this remark, and saw a pale, 1neatly-dressed young man, with a square parcel in his hand, stand-g  t ing near the door, with an expression of dis- tress and bewilderment on his countenance, that at once aroused her pity. The poor fel- low suddenly met her earnest gaze, and- pressed towards her counter. "As much as you can, give me on these," i he said, unfolding two small and very pretty colored engravings, in plain gilt frames. 8. .    834        Our Chathamz-Street Uncle. Naomi took the offered pledge to her uncle. "Von tollar," he said coolly: ('shmall pic- tures ish a trug in te auctions." "Only one dollar!" said the young man, as Naomi reluctantly made the offer. -"That is so little: make it two. I need the money so much!"  He was surely new to the trade, ' or he would never have tried to awaken sym- pathy in a pawnbroker's shop. Naomi, however, was as new as himself, and, full of compassion for his evident distress, repaired to her uncle. "He' wants two dollars: I'm sure they are worth that, uncle." "Ach, vimin, vimin," said Solomon, keenly examining the pictures: "I vant;er how te vorld vas mate vidout vimin to advise. tHe vill not redeem dem, Naomi." "Then give one to Hagar and one to me, I uncle, they are so pretty." "Two dollars den," said Solomon reluctant- ly, though the pictures were well worth that   Thle Three Golden Balls..   35 advance: " te vimin vill have dere vay, but I -vill alvays pe sorry." The young man went his way with the two dollars; and Naomi was attending to an ill- looking boy, who came to redeem   an over- coat from the shelf, when her uncle briskly  stepped to her side, and returning the parcel to its place, and flinging the fifty cents at the lad, said sharply, "Counterveit - get out."  "Dat ish a duffer: I knlew lhe vould scheat you, Naomi; it ish all in the vay of pisness to him."  "But, uncle, that old thing isn't worth more than a counterfeit -note," said Naomi, eyeing the ragged and dirty coat with much disgust. "It vill vork up into shoddy since te var," replied Solomon, returning to his place. A few moments later, Naomi was at her uncle's side: he pulled her sleeve, and, indicatg ing with motions of his finger three separate !* - -'.   ,ii'    386   Our Chathazm-Street Uncle.  stalls of which he commanded a full view, said with a grin, "  Ivory, apes, and peacocks: dat ish te peculiar treashure of Solomon the pawnbroker ast it vash of Solomon te king'." Naomi looked where he pointhnd saw in the stalls a negro, a flashily-dressed Span- iard, and a woman gaudy in red ribbon and cotton lace. The negro was offering to the astute Dan- iel thrf silver table-spoons; the Spaniard was receiving money on a watch and chain; and the pledge the woman had under con- sideration was a gentleman's seal-ring. "Te Spaniard ist von great gampler: he does pawn the vaclhs as he does vin," ex- plained Solomon; then, struck perhaps by thle strong contrast between Naomi's pure,- pale face and her surrounding, he gave her a little pusl, saying, "Go vay: dey ish not gut enough for you to see, Naomi.:' Naomi's next customer was a decent old     The Three Goldey\j Balls. 87 lady, whose gra Iairs were laid smoothly lunder her plain clp: she offered a bombazine bonnet, with an old crape veil. "I must stay lhome from church to-morrow," she said con- fidentially to Naomi; " but I was not paid for my work, and we must have something to eat. i Give me what you can, my dear." "Where do you live?" asked Naomi, ex- amining the bonnet. "Number thirteen, Pell Street, second story  front." "Take your. bonnet home: I will come and l see you after supper," said Naomi softly. "That is not very far away." And so the afternoon hours slipped by, and the gas had long been lighted. Uncle Simp- son became perturbed; Daniel and his clerk- ly coadjutors flew  about distractedly; the Simon of the cellar crept up and down from the darkness with his lantern at his belt, look- ing like a great glow-worm; inl the flickering   838    Our Chatham-Street Uncle.  shadows of the salesroom, the clerks took a ghostly appearance; the crowds grew mnore clamorous, redeeming pledges with. their newly-received wages, or depositing some articles to get wherewithal to help them over 'Sunday. Glad indeed was Naomi to hear the big bell ringing at the head of the stairs; and swiftly did she run to her room to wash and brush off some of the feeling of the shop before she went to her supper. Her aunt and Judith were home in high good -humor over their new, bonnets, which Naomi praised as well as she was able. Are you tired of the shop, Naomi?" asked her aunt. I'm very tired, aunt," replied Naomi. "Every one to their. mind," cried Judith. "I wouldn't stay in the shop all day: you should have seen the crowds in the synagogue, Naomi,-- so much finer than a Christian con- gregation, where the people hardly look worth a sixpence."  The Three Golden Balls.    89 The family sat down to tea. The table was long, as the clerks all ate with the household; but to night, being a busy one, our uncle and his aids did not get in early to the evening meal. There was no gas in the back rooms of the house; and by the dim light of two ill-trimmed lamps, with smoky shades, our friends sat down to eat. Mrs. Simpson and Judith were together by the tea-board, while Hagar and Naomi were far off at the other end of the table. Mrs. Simpson and her elder daughter were discoursing of dress and gossip, fast and loud; and Naomi, having carried her own and Hagar's cup to their places, for she was completely out of reach of her aunt, talked to Hagar in low, earnest tones. The child seemed so much interested as to forget her supper; and presently taking a little purse from her pocket, -a gilt and velvet affair, that had been pledged for a 'quarter and never redeemed,- took from it   ' 40  Our Chatham-Streetc   [e. a fragment of currency, and haqided i( to he cousin.  Naomi wrapped this smll treasur up in a similar piece of her own; and the: Hagar said," Go now: don't stay liong. As] her, Naomi: she is pleasant to-night." Naomi, with some hesitation, went to he aunt. "Aunt, may I lhave a loaf of bread?" "What under the sun!" cried Mrs. Simp son.  "I want it for a poor old woman," began Naomi. "'I'm not to blame for that," interrupted her aunt. "Let her take something to the shop," said Judith. "Give it to me, aunt; and on Monday I'll go to Mrs.. Phillips, and see her new   bias, dress, and cut you one just like it." ; "Will you, though?" "Yes, surely; and I'll take a good look at   - .         The Three Golden Balls.   41 Rebecca Moses's new hood for Judith.  I know I can copy it." "For gracious sake give her the loaf!" said Judith: " who ever heard the like! If you couldn't sew so well, Naomi, we'd send you to the asylum!" and she leaned back in her chair, and laughed heartily. Un smayed by ridicule, Naomi turned to go to the kitchen, her aunt calling after her, A small stale loaf, Naomi; not the last baking!" And now in a few moments see Naomi, with the loaf in a basket, her waterproof wrapped about her shoulders, with the hood drawn over her head, emerging from the area-gate, and soon entering a tiny shop, where a red-haired, jolly-faced old man sat mending a watch. "Why, here is Naomi!," le exclaimed, looking up. "I want you to take me up to 13 Pell Street, just for a few minutes," said Naomi. The old fellow whistled dubiously.  I   42   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. want to take some bread to a poor woman," explained Naomi.  "Well, come on then: I'm your man; but did you get the bread out of those Jews? Whew! that's like getting blood out of a turnip!" "I don't like that," said Naomi, standing still by the door. "There, now! well, I won't do so again. Come on, child. I must be back in a hurry. I don't like to leave the shop alone."' It: was a very small shop, hardly more than a big window, where the old man worked,  and space for a chair, and room behind that for the door to swing open. The old man buttoned his coat up tight, took his big cane, locked the door, and walked stoutly along by Naomi.  "What do you know of this poor woman?" asked Naomi's guardian. "Nothing," said Naomi.   Thie Three Golden Balls.   "I ," Then," replied her friend, half stopping, it is very foolish to go there. Ten to one you'll be swindled." "I shall not give her any thing un less I am satisfied about her," said Naomi, walking straight on. i They went swiftly along, turned two cor- ners, and stopped at No. 13. Naomi scanned the front of the house. "That is the room, -the second front," she said, betraying no hesitation, and ran up the narrow stair, her companion following panting behind. Naomi knocked resolutely at the door; and, sure enough, there was the very old woman who had come to the shop to pawn the bon- net.                ,  "A pleasant evening to you, my dear," said the old lady. "Walk in.  Is this your father?" "No: this is Timothy," said Naomi.   "   Our Chatham-Street Uncle.      j The room was bare of every thing but the J most necessary articles. There was a little  fire in the stove, and propped up in a chair was an aced man. "It's my old man," said the woman. "He \9  was hurt in an explosion five years ago, and I take care of him."  Timothy, as Naomi called him, looked care- fully at the room and its inmates, and his face gradually settled into an expression of calm  * satisfaction.  "I was sorry you had to offer your bonnet  at the shop,' began Naomi's soft voice.    "Yes, dear:" it's all the bonnet I have ; and  the best pleasure I find now is to get to   church on Sundays, and come back and tell the old man the sermon."  "I thought you had better not leave it," said Naomi. "It is the last bit of mourning I have for my girl. She died three years ago. She was ' "   Th e Three Golden Balls.   45 a rare hand at working worsteds, and did em- broidery for Ewing's grand store; and that kind and helpful she was, it was a sore thing to part with her!" "But it was the Lord's will," said Naomi. "Yes, dear, the Lord's will. Here is the last bit of canvas she was trying a new stitch on, and her needle just as she stuck it in, and her thimble as she dropped it." The old lady took down from the mantel a pasteboard-box, opened it, closed and replaced it, adding, "She was took very sudden-like." "I brought you a loaf," said Naomi, " and this for meat. I hope youll be paid next week, so you won't come to the shop. Never go to our uncle's if you can help it." She slipped the bits of currency into the woman's hand, and gave her the loaf.  '"Dear heart," said the oldwoman, smooth- ing Naomi's waterproof wii her wrinkled hand: "the blessing of the poor go with you.    "   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Let your alms come up in remembrance before God. We don't often get in a tight place like this, dear; and it's like we may not need help- ing again: but a look at your face will be good for our eyes." Here the old man in the chair, realizing how matters stood, began nodding vehemently, and nodded right alongo like a mandarin in a tea-shop, until Naomi had made her adieuxs, and disappeared below the level of the land- ing. "There, Timothy, were they worth going to see? Was I swindled?" demanded Naomi triumphantly, as they walked homeward. "They're good  as gold, Naomi," said Timothy. Hagar was waiting anxiously for Naomi. The rattle of cups and plates yet filled the dining-room, as Solomon and his hurried clerks, one by one, got liberty to eat their .sup- pers. ' Mrs. Simpson was gathering up the   The Three Goldeat Balls.   47  clothes for the next day's wash, and doing it with many animadversions upon Naomi, and unavailing regrets at having been persuaded out of the ' stale loaf." Judith was apparently asleep in the big chair. Naomi settled herself on a lounge, - which, being unredeemed, was doomed to the auction the next week,- and placing Hagar by her, with her head on her lap, she smoothed the clild's hair gently, while in a low voice she repeated the history of the day. She told of the pawned flatirons, of the wee girl who had gone off rejoicing with her tattered shawl, of the young man and the pictures. '"I know he was a nice young man," said Naomi. "Maybe his mo-her is sick, and he takes care of her, and can't get work," said ]Bgar, who was fond of weaving romances. "'Yes: or his sister, or his wife," said Naomi. "I would like to have asked where   48   Our Chatheam-Street Uncle. they lived; but, of course, I could not. I'm glad I found out the old lady, though. Her name is Roberts, she told Timothy." "Well, it must be nice to see things," said Hagar with a sigli. "What did you go in the shop for, Naomi?" "To find ways of doing good," said Naomi. sW   CHAPTER   II. NAOM'S DAY. RIGHT rose the morning of the sabbath, Naomi's sacred   day. When Hagar awoke, Naomi was standing by the bureau, dressed in her best, a black silk made from one of her aunt's. "Oh, dear!" said Hagar: " now I'm going to be alone all day. I always feel alone when you're gone. I don't know as you'd better lend me your Bible, Naomi; because Judith said she'd tell the rabbi of me if I read it. But I'd like some of those little papers you've 4          49   50    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. got in your trunk, and one of the cards to learn a verse of." "Very well; and you can read in the Book of Psalms that Judith had at school," said Naomi, laying her shawl. and bonnet on. a chair by the window. You must try and keep the day holy, Hagar, as you never keep Satur- day." "The rest of them don't really keep seventh- day sabbath," said Hagar; "and I'd rather keep your day, Naomi, and I'm  going to believe just what you do." "We must believe what God's 'word tells us," said Naomi, taking her Bible, and sitting down on the side of the bed. She read a chapter to Hagar, explaining it as well as she could as she went onl; and then kneeling with her cousin's hand clasped in hers, she offered their morning prayer. The next thing in ordj was to dress Hagar, and arrange the room; then to obey the tardy   Nao mzi's Day.      51 summons of the breakfast-bell, and go down to pour coffee for her uncle. "I vash up till two o'clock," said Mr. Simpson, rubbing his eyes: " vy did not sthay to ,pour mein tea, Naomi? te vrow vas off somevere, and I vas all alone." "I am sorry for that, uncle: if I had known aunt meant to leave the table, I would have staid to wait onl you."  "Vere did go T " reiterated our uncle, ham-  mering the table with his fist. "To take a little help to a poor woman, ) 11 le.' "It is pad vays to go about at night: du must stay home, Naomi." ; Timothy welit withlme, uncle." "Timothy! I do hate that Englishman!" "There, now, uncle: why should not nice old Timothy take me  about, as well as if he were my father?" "I did hate dein fater!" cried our benevo-. lent uncle.   52    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Now, Unncle," said Naomi reproachfully. "Veil, it vash all for dein mutter's sake, Naomi: vilt not plame dein olt uncle. Vy, girl, his English friends dit not vant him to marry dein mutter, shust as if she vast-not gut enough for him.  She vast gut enomugl for te king: if she was living now, te king shoult not have lber." "Yes, uncle," said Naomi soothingly: she had heard this story a hundred times. "I pe pound ty poor voman vast not a Jew!" cried Mr. Simpson, striking on a new theme. "No, uncle," said Naomi. "Ash, I know it: Jews ish not so peggar poor. Christians ish the poor vons ; pegging ist part of their pisness. Jews shoult not give of tere substance to te Gentiles." "Moses in the law commends charity to all who need," said Naomi. "I does not care voll penny vor Noshes nor \       .       ^  \   Naomi's Day.       53 te law neiter: ash art not te rabbi, Naomi, I vill say so much pefore you. I cares only for von good piles of monish." "You brought nothing into the world, uncle, nor can you carry any thing out," said Naomi sadly. "Dat ish true; put no need pringing it up, Naomi. If I cannot carry meinl piles monish out of te world, I can leave tem to mein Hagar and Naomi," said our uncle testily; and then added in a softer tone, "I know Azrael cannot be pought mit monish, Naomi : ven he comes I must go; but may it pe long before he knocks here, Naonii." "I hope so, uncle,; but it is wise to get ready for his coming." "Does mean I make my vill, girl?" ex- claimed the pawnbroker. "No  indeed, uncle;, but prepare your soul." Our uncle shrugged his shoulders.  "I   54   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. vould be von great fool to keeps in mein mint vat I cannot bear," he said. "I must go to te shop, and gets it in orter, ant look over mein pooks, Naomi. Christian governments are very hart on te Jews, to make us keep first day sappath; eh, Naomi?" And so, as in the Saviour's parable, one went to his merchandise, but the other to feast in the King's courts that day. Naomi was soon ready to go out; alld, Bible in hand, bent her way toward Spring Street, where she spent her sabbaths. Here was the home of Naomi's best and oldest earthly friend, whom, though not really akin to her, she called Aunt Anna. When Naomi's parents had come, yoLung and inexperienced, to a strange land, Provi- dence led them to a room in the same house with Aunt Anna. The kind heart of the dame warmed towards the youthful foreigners: she was their friend, counsellor, comforter; she gave the infant Naomi a hearty welcome, and   !      Naomi's Day.       55 was unwearied in kind offices bothl to the  mother and child. Naomi's father died about the time Solomon Simpson. came from Ger- many: the widow retained the room in which shle had lived silce coming to New York, and was supported partly by her needlework, and 1 partly by her brother Simpson. When six years old, Naomi was left an orphan; and her O Uncle Solomon agreed to provide for her, and leave her in Aunt Anna's care, as his wife declined to take' chargo of her. But our uncle  grew constantly more and more fond of his niece, and when she was fourteen insislted X upon her becoming an inmate of his own fanm- ily. His Jewish prejudices were not so strongly exercised against Aunt Anna as against other Christians; for lhe could not forget that she had nursed his favorite sister during a conta- gious disease from which others fled, and that but for her the sufferers might have died alone,   56   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Since Naomi had been living with her uncle, she had insisted upon spending every sabbath with Aunt Anna; and though her. uncle would have been glad to see her less of what lie called a "Gentile," he had ceased to oppose her going. Naomi's light steps took her swiftly through the Bowery and Spring Street, and brought her safely to Aunt Anna's door, which she entered with the bright, -eager face of one who- is sure their presence will bring only satisfac- tion. Aunt Anna was reading by her front window: her comely figure, and placid, vener- able face bent over her book, were, in their way, as good to see as Naomi glad and young. Now we are ready for our " good day," said Naomi, sitting down by her old friend, and resting her arm fondly on her shoulder. "If poor little Hagar could only be here, I do not know any thing more that I would wanlt. We  have more than an hour before we need start ,          *   Naomi's Day.       57 for church; and I'm going to talk as fast as I can; for you are the only one I really talk to, Aunt Anna, unless it's Hagar. I've been doing as you told me, looking for some good to do; and I looked for it in the Sliop." Aunt Anna started a little. She had her suspicions about that same shop; and she doubted not, if Naomi went there often, her eyes might be opened to things of which she now had not the least idea. The old ladv had never thought it her duty to hint to Naomi that our uncle did not conduct business with strict probity; but she was now likely to find it out fast- enough. "There is nothing wrong inll that, is there?" said Naomi,' as her auditor remained silent. "No: not if you do good, and get no harm yourself, child. I can't help thinking of the question, ' Can one touch pitch, and not be. defiled?' What ever made you think of going into the shop to look for your work, Naomi?" *  -       ,-  *   58   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "It has been like a nightmare to me ever since I went to uilcle's," said Naomi: "it seems to me as if human 'misery flows in and out our shop, like the tide flows in and out yonder, casting up all sorts of doleful things; and I did not know but by going there I might soonest find sorrows that I could lighten, and poverty to help. I think I have already, Ault Anna." "Well, as far as your uncle and the clerks are concerned, you are with them every day; and, as you say, you may find, in those who come to the shop, some who need your help: but you must remember as much sin as sorrow goes in at that shop, Naomi." "I wish," cried Naomi, "that there were no pawnbrokers' shops!" "Well used, they might be a great blessing," ai  AAunt Anna; "but here they are gene- rally a means of abuse, extortion, and illegal' trade. You will find out much that is bad about them."   Naomi's Day.     *  59 "Not any more than I know," said Naomi conlfidently: "just about the worst there is, is that they will let people pledge articled absolutely necessary to their families, only to buy liquor.' "Tbdt ought to be an offence against any one's conscience, but it is not against law." Oh, of course, uncle will not transgress law," said Naomi; and then she remembered the detective. She told her old friend about Mrs. Roberts, and her evening visit; and then, having read aloud a chapter in the Bible, they set out for church. In the afternoon, there was Sunday * school, and then a quiet hour before tea. 'It seems," said Naomi, " as if I would like to do a great deal of good, and I get discouraged because I can't." "You must be content to do a little faith- fully,'-' said Aunt Anna. "If you are sure' you are working with an eye single to God's   60    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. glory, you will not grow weary, even toiling for a little. It is when we are really, though may be unconsciously, working for self, that discouragement creeps in." "How is that?" asked Naomi. "Because the Lord is an all-wise and all- powerfull Ruler; and we will be content to let him serve himself with our little or much, just as he prefers, when he can have either. It is when we wish to gain praise of men, or self-applause, that we are resolved to have the Lord serve only with the much." "That-is new to me; and I'll think of it while I go get a pitcher of water to fill your kettle, Aunt Anna." Naomi weit down to the street-lydrant for the .water. A thin, pale young man was just turning from it: it was the young man who had pawned the pictures. A boy sat on the curb-stone, sailing straws in the gutter. "Do you know who, that man is?" asked Naomi.   Naomi's Day.      61 I "Yees," drawled the boy. "What is his name?"' "Puddun n' tame," said the Spring-street Ishmael with a leer.  \ Naomi walked back to her friend's room disgusted, but she had seen the stranger enter the opposite house. "I saw the very young man that pawned the pictures, Aunt Anna!n" she exclaimed. "He went in opposite with a pail. Do find out about him:.I just know he's got a sick wife, though Hagar' is just as sure it's a mother." '"How much dreaming is in young heads!" said Aunt Anna. "But you know you might be just such a true friend to them as you were to father and mother. Do, Aunt Anna, find out all about it." "All about what, child? But sure enough, I have seen a very decent-looking stranger   62   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. about there. I will. ask a woman I know on the first floor." "I hear Timothy coming," said Naomi. "I will set the table for you, Aunt Anna, while he reads ' Saint's Rest' to you." f\   When the lamps in the street were first Sighted, Timothy prepared to take Naomi home.  Timothy was Aunt Anmna's half- brother, and took a much wiser and more fatherly interest in Naomi than her uncle did. It' was partly to be near Naomi, and watch over her in the turmoil of Chatham Street, that Timotlhy had taken his'small busi- ness as a watch-mender down .to the neigh- borhood of the "Three Golden Balls."  The numerous pawnbrokers, however, kept him busy mending unredeemed pledges of jewelry. Timothy had more worldly and less heav- enly wisdom   than Aunt Anna. As he walked home with his young protege, he told. her plainly that she must expect to find the   Ndaomi's Day.      63 presiding spirits of the shop a set of rascals. This offended Naomi, who thought it a reflec- tion on her uncle. This did not daunt Timothy, however, who told her he 1had his eye on Daniel, who was a villain, and she must treat him accord- ingly. "I'm afraid they're a Athievish set," said Timothy. Entering the parlor at her uncle's, Naomi found   Judith  entertaining  a  pawnbroker named Abraham, Hagar asleep on the lounge, Daniel and Simon playing toss-up  at the table, and her uncle rwatching them. "Heads, I wins!" cried Daniel. "Mr. Simpson, which do you bet on: back one of us; down with a fivepence!" "Vait till you trows," said our uncle: " ven I sees vich side is up, I bets; I always goes mit te vinning side, eh, Naomi?" After her peaceful sabbath, this was a rude, r   b    ,.   "   Our Chathama-Street Uncle. disturbing scene to Naomi. She went to the lounge to ouse Hagar to go to bed. "Sits you down, Naomi; ve vill have a tish of oysters. Simon shalt fetch tem from von cook-shop!" cried Mr. Simpson. "I had rather go up stairs, ulncle." "Ish sick, or sleepy, Naomi?" "No: but thhis is my sabbath, and I had rather read quietly up stairs." "What dull times you -Christians have!" cried Judith.  Go vay, ten," said our uncle: "I vill have no oysters. Ist von dull girl, Naomi." crabs   CHAPTER    III. NAOM'S EYRIE. "ORDING   to her promise, Naomi spent the greater part of Monday amid the intricacies of a bias-dress and an opera-hood for her aunt and cousin. She worked in the little parlor; and Hagar, occupying her chair by the window, talked to her cousin in her usual fantastic way. "Don't you wish, Naomi, that we lived in a great castle in a wood, where the walls were all hung with tapestry, and every thing had been there for three hundred years. I  like g      "   Our Nhatham-Street Uncle. old things if they are grand, and stay. But here, Naomi, things are old, and some are grand; but every once and a while they all rush off to the auction-room, just as I get ac- quainted with them.  Now, there's that lounge, Naomi: I make stories to myself about it; and there is a beautiful young lady, that is just as good, and very sick, and she talks so sweet about going to heaven; and close be- hind her I see standing that angel that spoke to Hagar in the wilderness, and he tells her about that river up in Jerusalem above. Now, Naomi, isn't it a real shame, that, before that girl dies, the lounge will be dragged off to the auction, and, of course, the angel will be gone too." Naomi was kneeling on the floor, shears in hand, cutting her aunt's black silk, bro- caded with a" yellow leaf, into the proper biases. Shle looked to the lounge, but saw neither sick girl nor angel. "Because God has   Na m i's Eyrie. : .   67 crippled your feet, Hagar, he has given to your mind stronger wings than to mine. You see more in the world of fancy than I do in the world of New York," she said. Here our uncle came in. "Comes to te shops, Naomi!" he said: "tem dumb boys have got dings so mix up, you comes help tein old uncle stlraighten tem." "Naomi promised to work for us to-day," said Judith, coming il very frowzy and half dressed, as she generally was in the morning, lher shoes down at the heel, a soiled calic0 wrapper hanging loosely about her porely frame. "Vell, Naomi?"said Mr. Simpson impa- tienltly. "Wouldn't it do just as well if I helped you to-morrow, uncle?  If not, I'll speak to aunt about waiting." "I can vait," said our uncle, seating him-    68    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. self on the arm of Hagar's chair, and pulling her ears. "Te vimmen voult not vait if te roof fall in for tere haste. Vat ish te use of dress,--dress all te times. I veres my coat till it veres out mitout no fixing, eh, Naomi?" "I'm sure," said Judith, " that you wouldn't expect mother and me to look worse than our friends. You must surely want us dressed like folks, instead of nuns or Quakers." "Dat ish true," said Mr. Simpson: "you two ish my valking sign-poards; and it is vell to have you gilt and fine. Vill help me to- morrow, Naomi?" "Yes, uncle. If Judith will run lthe ma-     chine after I get the work basted, I can do all I promised to-day." "I'll get your hood done, Judith, if you'll w sew."  "Well," said Judith lazily, going to the dining-room, and, beginning to thread and dust a sewing-machine.   Naomi' Eyrie.      69 "Ich von gut girl, Naomi; shall see te pooks, and learn te vays of pisness, and vill be a pawn-proker deinself some tay. Ish ash gut ash a man, Naomi: ist not like te vimmen at all." This was unusual praise; and Naomi was sure some new demand was coming. She, however, replied with spirit. ,I hate pawa- broking, uncle: it is not fair." "No, it is not," said Solomon; " te law and duffers nearly ruins us poor pawn- prokers. We gets out of bocket every tay, Naomi." "I know better than that, uncle, or you would not keep in the business a week." "Ah, knows dein uncle has von eye to busi- ness!" "You give only about one third or quarter Talue on things, uncle, when you know they Vill never be redeemed, and then you sell hem for full value; and only to see what an iterest you get on your money!"I!   70   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Dat ish vat I likes," said Solomon laugh- ing. ," But it is the worst kind of usury," cried Naomi valiantly; " and no Jew should be a usurer, for see what the law and the prophets say about taking usury.  Your own holy books condemn you, uncle.') "I does not care von fig for te law nor i te prophets, Naomi: I cares only for piles mon- ish. But I haves read te holy books, chilt; and I finds mein father Jacob did take such per- centage for doing Laban's pusiness, ash ill twenty years it vash m ore r all te principal. Vat ish my vays to tliat, Naomi?" "And then, uncle," said Naomi, still cut- ting and basting, " you take pawns, even beds and clothes, when you know the people will use all the money for whiskey, and leave their families freezing!" "Ish viser nor te laws, Naomi? They does not tell me I must finds if mine cushtomers likes visky more nor pread and cheese."   NaOom i's Eyrie.     71 "And uncle,' continued Naomi, still bring- ing up her accusations, "I have seen a law that requires that what unredeemed pawns bring at a sale above the money lent, legal interest and costs, must go to those who left the pawns, and I never saw any body get back any thing." "Nor tid I," said our shrewd uncle. "If I finds von such, Naomi, vill sent him to Par- num for a show: he would be more curiosity nor von great sea-sherpent, mein girl!" "Well," said Naomi, "I wish you felt, 'Better is a little with the fear of the I Lord' than great gains from pawnbroking as it works in Chatham street." "I must go to mein shops," said our uncle, who had seemed to regard his niece's spirited attack as an excellent joke.  "Tem  tree Hebrew children I left alone down tere vill get ash lazy ash can pe if I am avay." "Naomi," said Hagar, when her father had   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. gone," don't you wish we lived where every thing was our very own, and nobody was poor nor bad nor sorry?" "That will all be when we get to heaven," said Naomi. "I read such sweet verses this morning: There shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain.' "That is good news for me," said Hagar. "And this verse too," continued Naomi: ' Him that overcometh I will make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out.'" "What must we overcome?" asked Iagar. "We must overcome evil with good, as to others; and as to ourselves, we must over- come our love of sin; and as to Satan, we must overcome his temptations," said Naomi, thus setting forth the claims of the world, the flesh, and the devil.   Naomi's Eyrie.   That was a busy day; but after supper Hagar said, "Come, Naomi, stop work for a while, and let us go to our seat. The evenings will get so cold we can't go much longer." "Naomi, you promised my hood," said Judith. "I will work on it to-night and in the morning," said Naomi. "It is most done." Naomi wrapped Hagar up in a large shawl, put on her own cloak, and helped the child up stairs.  They entered one of the front rooms. In the dim twilight of early evening, it was a grim, queer place. The ceiling had gathered the blackness of many years: cobwebs fes- tooned the walls. Here towered a high-post bedstead, keeping ward over bales of matting and carpeting; here were ancient sideboards, where once glass and wine had shone,. now covered with dust, haunted by spiders, or resigned to the revelries of mice. Chairs   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. that had held their own at weddings and funerals, and social gatherings, were piled along the sides of the room ; pictures that had drifted to the pawnbroker, wrecks of some commercial tempest; mirrors, tarnished and marred, that once had smiled back to beauty, or frowned in quick accord to wealth, - all these had found their way to Solomnon Moses Simpson; and he had some secret alchemy for converting them all to gold. ] Solomon had an adage," Every ting ist gut for sometiing;" and he dealt in a wider diversity of articles than his brothers in trade. Through these piles of goods and chattels went Naomi and Hagar to the window. It commanded a view of the street better than could be obtained elsewhere in the house. To this window-sill Naomi had lead a strong seat fastened, and furnished it with a stray carriage-cushion. In the summer evenings she would throw the window up; but now   Naomi's Eyrie.   /   75   she had carefully covered the cracks with list- ing. She lifted Hagar to her place, and sat down beside her. Before them, on either hand, Cliatham Street and the Bowery stretched long vistas of glittering light. The street- ca's flashed along with colored lamps; omni- buses, hacks, and private carriages rolled up and down, rattling over the pavements, and lending their share to the general brightness. In the houses, the windows nearest the ground freely displayed their brilliant wares; while through casements higher up they could see the artisan at his labors, the woman at her needle, the mother by the cradle, all the thousand scenes that the full light of day had hidden were now revealed by the' treacherous gas.  "Dear me," said Hagar, isn'tit splendid! It is like a panorama, and better than a magic lantern! Justlook at all the gold balls, - three times nine, twenty-seven, -Naomi: only think,   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. so many things to be pawned! And then all the other places in the city too. I remember the shop we lived in way down, down ever so far: how the folks would come in to pawn clothes! I've seen men take their coats off to sell. Mother and Judith used to sponge and press, and do over, and sell them for new. And then the dresses that came,--ladies' maids, and actresses, and ballet-dancers, and even beggars, - and such a fuss of ripping and dyeing! I'm glad we ain't there now. Say, Naomi, do you know these shops with the balls out always make me think of the stories I have read of folks selling Satan their souls?" ' "I'm afraid there's a deal of soul-selling of another kind," said Naomi. "It began in Eden, as the Books of Moses tell you." "Yes," said Hagar: "when Adam sold him- self and everybody else for an apple." Naomi smiled a little. "Who bought back all qur race from the adversary, Hagar?"   Naomi's Eyrie.   "   "Messiah is the Deliverer," said Iagar. "Jesus of Nazareth bought us back with his own life," said Naomi earnestly. "Yes," said Hagar, dreamily; " and I like what your last part of the Bible tells about him so much. It's nicer than what is in the books father takes in the shop, only Judith flon't like me to read it. I like those other books,'though, Naomi. There was the "Chil- dren of the Abbey:" why, I dreamed of that all night; and I felt so sorry that father carried the Jbooks off before I knew how it turned out about Paul and Virginia; and there was "Ccelebs in Search of a Wife," Naomi: the folks in that were awfully stupid, and the nice girl wasn't nearly so nie as you are. Still, Naomi, after I've read those books I feel tired and cross, and not as peaceful as I do after reading the holy books, or your part of the Bible." "I wouldn't read them," said Naomi:    78   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "there are real folks that it is better to think about than the make-up people in those books. See that old woman with the bag on her back, stumbling along in front of Abraham's: she has spent all day poking in sweepings and dust-barrels. And over there in the Bowery, do you see our old man with one leg: we've seen him there every niglit for a year. I'm sorry for him a little; biuf, if he didn't look so wicked, I'd be sorry for him more." "See the women going along with bundles of work! I know that little woman wants to take the cars, only she hasn't money to pay," said Hagar eagerly. "And only look at the poor little children running the streets so late: you and I never had to do that, Hagar; we are better off than most.  But just here happened the strangest event in all their observations from their eyrie in the   Naomi's Eyrie.      79   - second story. A policeman came along the Bowery, and grasped the one-legged beggar. There was a small crowd gathered at once: but the officer kept a little space cleared; and another wearer of a star coming up, Naomi and Hagar, looking eagerly, saw the beggar so manipulated that in a few seconds he stood on two as sound legs as any man, and was then marched off vociferating and struggling be- tween the two policemen, all the -small boys in the streets hooting after him. "Why, Naomi! Just look: that is more than a fairy story!" cried Hagar. "To think he was making believe all this while," said Naomi indignantly. "I told you he looked bad." "I wish there were no such people in theo world: there won't be in Jerusalem when it is restored. I have heard the rabbi say, that, when the holy city was taken away from the Gentiles, there would be none in it poor or-   80    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. deformed or sick; but that all should be as rich as kings, as holy as priests, and even the little children as wise as prophets," said Hagar. "That all might have been if they had not rejected Messiah," said Naomi; " but I do not think God promises to restore the city where they crucified the Lord of glory. It is only ill heaven that you will find such things as the rabbi promises, and there not just as he means them." "But the Jews refuse Christ, and you say we can only get to heaven through him. Will there be no Jews in heaven, Naomi?" Yes, indeed. God will give them a bet- ter mind. The Testament promises that in heaven will be some out of all the tribes of Israel. Now, you had better come to bed, Hagar: you'll get cold." In Naomi's room was a small stove, with kindling and fuel arranged all ready to light. Naomi lit the fire, and, when Hagar was warm,   Naomi's Erie.      81 put her to bed: when this was done, she read in the Bible and prayed, as usual. She did -this when Hagar was in bed, because the child's malformed limb prevented her from kneeling down. Naomi then drew her little table near the- stove, brought up their favorite seat,- a barrel- chair which she had made herself, and which was therefore untainted by the shop, and, being comfortably established, took up scarlet EIk -wool and Judith's newly-begun hood, and went to work, meanwhile singing the Chris- tian's home-songs of Jerusalem above; lulled by which melodies, Hagar fell asleep.  As Naomi worked and sung, she meditated; and by and by the song came more slowly and brokenly from her lips, and presently meditation superseded song altogether. She -was thinking of our uncle and his business." It was not the least use to' argue with our uncle. He was not, indeed, a chevalier-with- S        !82   Our Chatftam-ze6 iu,7". ,out fear, and, without reproach; but he was without shame, and invulnerable to reason. . "It is a mean business," said Naomi; " but then it is not illegal. It's a cheating business, , and yet only in the custom of the trade, and as the law allows. Of course, unlce ,wouldn't be dishonest. Uncle Solomonl is very good to me, and would be unhappy if I left him; and I ought not to leave poor little Hagar. Then I suppose I could not take care of myself any- where else; though I would not be afraid if I thought it was my duty to go. The Bible says not to sit in the seat of scorners, and to with- draw ourselves 'from all who walk disorderly; and I'm sure here they scorn the Saviour, and are disorderly even as to their own faith; and yet it seems just as if God had put me here. I mean to speak to Timothy about it." Naomi did, indeed, speak to Timothy about: her position the next afternoon, when she took Judith's ear-ringto him to be mnded. When   she had stated the case much as she had dis- cussed it with herself, the old man whistled and worked away at the ear-ring a while; then taking a small Bible from a drawer at his 'elbow, read this verse, "I pray not that thou  shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from the evil;" and made this comment: "Stay there if you can keep your garments white, Naomi." However, we left Naomi knitting and think- ing. She worked until twelve o'claok: the house was quiet, and she was, preparing for  bed, 'when Hagar woke, and wanted a drink, Naomi belted a long, dark wrapper about her, flung her hair, which she was brushing, back'over her shoulders,' and, lamp and mug in hand, descended to the kitchen.  A light shining under the shop-door made her start ' with fear of fire, and, throwing it open, she stood face to face with Daniel. The trap-door was open, and a lighlt came up through. it. n     (            -   84   Our Chattlam-Street Uncle. Daniel" wore a paper-cap like a printer, a leathern apron like a shoemaker, and Simon's lantern was in his hand. "What is the matter?" demanded Naomi. "Nothing at all. I am just going to bed," replied Daniel coolly. Naomi regarded him suspiciously; but as he shut the trap-door, and blew  out his lantern, she turned away. "What is that light left in thle-cellar?" she asked, looking back. , "To scare thieves and rats," replied Daniel. Early next morning, Naomi took her uncle aside, and told him what she had seen the previous night. He laughed and nodded. "Do not trouble its little head mitt such tings," he said. "Daniel ish going to act in the theatre, and--he was only' practising his part of yon of de dree Heprew children in the' fiery furnace." ,' You;---khnow I. do not believe that, uncle,    Naomi's Eyrie.       85- any more than his story of a light to scare rats," said Naomi. "Vell; you does not pelieve nothing elsh, it ish von consolation," said our uncle with non- chalance.                 - s  '           *  .  .   CHAPTER   IV. OUR BROTHER'S KEEPER.  HE Prince of Dreamers tells us that upon Mount Innocent walked one Godly-man, upon whom two of the children of the Evil One cast dirt, which presently fell off, and left his garments no less spotless than be- fore. I suppose Mr. Godly-man did not go out of his way to walk near the dirt. He walked where the Lord set him, and walked heaven- ward. So in this Babel of mammon and pleasure- worship, amid the dust and ashes of this fam- 86     -   ily of our uncle, walked Naomi, pure and true. It is not time nor place nor circumstance that makes our Christianity. The flames of the fiery furnace could not so closely wrap around the three captives in Babylon, that the Son of God could not come close beside them; the troops of Pharaoh could not so closely press upon the heels of flying Israel, but nearer still towered up the cloudy pillar, whence the Lord looked forth. The Lord sets his children sometimes in hard places; but they need not therefore fall: his hand could clasp his pilgrim as fast and as sustainingly on the rugged slopes of the Hill Difficulty, as in the smooth extent of the land of Beulah. How often do people cry, "If I were only differently situated, I would do and be better; if things were thus and so, it would be so easy to be a Christian"! My dear friends, never, never. Your theory is an utter fallacy: where God puts you is   Our ChathamuStreet Uncle. just the very place where you can and should be a Christian. If our Naomi had left a Chris- tian home to live where her sabbath was pro- faned, her God denied, and probity and charity were below par, we would argue' illy for her future; but in just these circumstances God placed her, and there she grew in the Chris- tian life. "I'm so inexperienced; and in such a home I am afraid I'll be a discredit to the name of Christian," said Naomi to her counsellor, Timothy. "The Lord never puts too great difficulties in anybody's path," said Timothy: "keep your garments white." "' But can one touch pitch, and not be defiled?' Aunt Anna says." "No more they cai't touch it with their hands, child, for that they've no business to do; but our righteousness is a dress of Christ's make, that pitch won't stick to. I tell you,   ' Our Brother's Keeper.    89 ,p    89   Naomi, if your spiritual dress has got the true Zion stamp on it, nothing from without will blacken it." "But from within?" said Naomi. "Yes, yes: there's where the evil comes from; but prayer is a powerful good bleaching- powder for that kind of clothes." Among other matters that Naomi laid before Timothy, standing beside his chair as he worked, was her encounter with Daniel in the shop at night: she also repeated her uncle's explana- tion. Timothy worked and whistled for some five minutes. "Naomi, did this touch you in any way? can it harm you?" "Why, I suppose not, unless he sets the house on fire," said Naomi; "but I'm afraid he'll deceive and injure uncle, somehow." "Your uncle is old enough to take care of himself." "But we are, in some sort, each other's    90   Our Chatham-Street Uncle.  keepers, and oughn't to be seifish," said Naomi. "Naomi," said Timothy deliberately, " ev- ery thing that concerns yourself, your happi- ness or sorrow, your present or future, your right and wrong doing, you may tell me in welcome; and I'll advise you to the best of my ability, being that you are a girl without any father and mother. But I never want you to tell me any thing about your uncle, unless it touches upon you also." Having said which to Naomi, Timothy remarked to himself, "The house of our Uncle Simpson may tumble some time, and I don't want her to think she helped pull out the foundations." At breakfast the morning after Hagar and Naomi had seen the arrest on the Bowery, Daniel said, "Old Josey's game's Vp. He's been playing cripple on the Bowery this year past, with one leg strapped up; and yester-   Our Brother's Keeper I   91 day they found him out, and will take him to the island." "How was that?" asked Simon. "His mate peached on him," said Daniel. ( He shoult have pin a Jew: Jews do not peech on von anoter," said Solomon. "That is true," said Daniel: "they hang together, and so grow rich." Naomi had, until her seventeenth year, gone to a good school: she wrote a fair clear hand, and was an excellent accountant. Her uncle found it very convenient to have her help him in keeping hii, books. Naomi, 'who labored under a supposition tlit irregularities in business were always connected somehow with the ledgers and daybooks, finding her unqe's all straight, was quite confident that he was acting at least legally. Naomi now went frequently to help in the shop, and got acquainted with many who were regular customers. The woman who   92   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. had pawned the flatirons seemed to think nothing of that kind -of business: one day it would be her best bonnet and shawl, to get money for fuel; then the irons to be able to buy soap or starch for her laundry-work; then her best bed-quilt as soon as the irons were out. "She does not look like a drinking wo- man," said Naomi to her uncle. "She dosh not trink; put it ish von day's feast ven te monish ist in, ant ten it ist famine till more dosh come: she hast no judgment, Naomi." The woman's story was a little different. "People put off paying me: and then I wash by the month; and this week one of the ladies put in three dozen new collars; and of course, as she would not pay me extra for them, it put me out of pocket, doing so much starch- ing." "That was very unjust," said Naomi.   Our Brother's Keeper.    93 "There is plenty of injustice put upon us," said the laundress. "Some folks seem to for- get we're the same flesh and blood." "Blessed is he that considereth the poor," thought Naomi: '" the Lord shall deliver him in time of trouble." On Saturday, the young man who lived near Aunt Anna came in, and pawned a small gold ring: he received less than half value for it, and went away more melancholy than before. The woman who had brought the blanket, and who had redeemed it, now came in with a man's coat. "Don't take it, uncle: it is her husband's coat, I know; and she is pawning it secretly to get money to be drunk to-morrow," urged Naomi. "It ish none of mein pusiness, Naomi. T I take vat tey prings: it ish her own lookout. mein girl."   *94   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Later in the day, a miserable, bloated man came in, and pawned -a kettle and frying-pan. "'It ish te huspant of de vomen, ash prought te coat, Naomi: now vill boths have ein sphree, I dinks." "Oh, uncle! how can you?" cried Naomi. "Vy not? te pots ant pans vill pring monish." "But these wretched creatures vill drink and fight and riot -only to think of it!" "Cain vash von sharp lawyer, Naomi, ven he saysh ' Am I mein proter's keepers?' Nein, Naomi: I ish not mein proter's keepers, nei- ther mein sister's keepers; it ist ast mooch ast I canst do to keeps meinself." "But we are each other's keepers, uncle: if every human, being just went on for him- self what would we all do; we need other people's' help." "Jews vilI help Jews, Naomi: ve are von race alone. I say like Tavid in te Pook of   .  ,     I   Our Brother's Keeper     95 Psalms apout te Gentiles,' Let ternm pe con- founted.'" "You have read the holy books a good deal, uncle; but you twist them up so they do not do you any good. Rabbi Israel studies the holy books, and see how different they make him."' "He ish almost ash gut ash 'ein Christian; eh, Naomi?," said our uncle, laughing. "Yes: he is a real good mal," replied Naomi. "Petter nor dein uncle; eh, Naomi? VeJl, chilt, I improves; but the vorlt vash not made in von tay, Naomi. Te rabbi, mein chilt, keeps (to te holy pooks, and looksh for his rewart ven te Holy City ish restored. Now, Naomi, dein uncle ish von Hebrew of te vorlt: he dinks ash New York in te hant is vorth more ash te Holy City in te push." On Saturday afternoon, about five o'clock, Naomi asked Timothy to go with her to see old Mrs. Roberts. , 1    96   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. As they -went along, Timothy bought a beef- steal. "Since when did you begin to board yourself?" asked Naomi. "Im putting out a little of my money to usury in the bank of heaven," replied Timothy. They found Mrs. Roberts out; but the old, man sat in his big chair by the stove. "My old lady's gone home with her work," he said. "When we were young, I worked for her; now times are changed, and she ;*orks for me." "Find it pretty tedious sitting here?" asked Timothy. "Sumat so," replied the old man; "but I keep in mind that a man had patience to wait a long while by the pool, as it tells in the Testament, and the Lord came to him after a while; and so by and by the Lord will come for me. Likewise, I don't sit here most of the-time."  'THAY FOUND MRS. ROBERT8 OIS..Page 96. ROURTS OUT i)i     Our Brother's Keeper.    97 "Lie in bed?" suggested Timothy. "No: I'm feeble-like in my mind; got my head hurt 'long with the rest of me; and I wanders. Most of the time I'm a boy or a likely lad again. I see the old folks and friends and places like as they used to be -afore I growed old. I don't feel like as I was, just this old wrecked-up old man in this chair at all. I sits and hums and laughs, and the old lady sihe sews for us both."' Naomi was listening eagerly to these " re- marks by the old man," when, thinking she heard a door open, ehe looked about. Tim- othy was very near the old lady's cupboard, and perhaps had just shit the door. While Naomi was considering it, the old man said quite brightly, "I see you co that,-I see you; and God he did too. We don't often get meat; but I see you put that ere beefsteak in your cupboard." Presently the old lady came in, carrying a   98   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. small basket, wherein were several tiny par- eels. "I got my pay to-night, my dear," she said; "and I settled up for the rent, and bought the old man a morsel of tea. It does me good to see you, my dear: old folks get lonesome when left to themselves; ,and we haven't had no young faces about since our girl died." "I want you to go up to Ewings's store with me, Timothy, will you?" asked Naomi when they left Mrs. Roberts. ' What now'?" grumbled Timothy: " some worsted fandangoes for yourself, or a new errand for Judith?" "Neither," said Naomi; " but I saw they advertised for nice knitters and crochet-work- ers, in ' The Times' this morning, and I want to see if I can get some work." "Doesn't your uncle give you what's right?" asked Timothy. "( He gives me my board and clothes; but I    Our Brother's Keeper.   99 hardly ever get a penny of my own. I had a dollar for New Year's last month; but that is all the money I have had for a year. t want sometihing of my oww, so I can give something away once in a while." "What will your folks say to this, though?" ;"Thley won't care," replied Naomi. "I shall do it evenings and early mornings in my room, and not take up my time from them. I can't: do much about the house anyway; for aunt don't like Rose interfered with. I know we are very untidy, and that it is a duty to be neat and clean; but I cannot make our house so, only my own room." Said Timothy, "If you can't do all you wanlt, do all you can." While Naomi and   Timothy go home, we make ain entire change in the scene of our story, and go in at the tenement-house oppo- site Aunt Anna's. T * Te Jews' New Year comes in September.   Our Cliatham-Street Uncle. There is a small, tidy room in the thi{d story, with plain white curtains at the win- dows, a clean carpetless floor, a clock and a few books on a shelf, a grate with a little fire in it, and seated in a large old-fashioned chair, and wrapped in a shawl, a young woman, evidently an invalid. She sat with her thin hands clasped on her lap, and her face overcast with care. As she sat there, the day darkening about her into night, her hus- band came in,-- the same young man we have mentioned several times before. He sat down near his wife, and took from a paper a small chicken, and from his pocket an orange. "I hope you did not buy those out of your wages, James," said the wife. "No : these are from - other money." "What you got from your uncle?" "Yes." "He must hare sent you a good deal." The young man turned away to hide his troubled face.   Our Brother's Keeper.   101 I  "Did you pay up our rent and coal bill, James?" asked the young woman, the cares of their poverty pressing very heavily upon her. "Yes," said James; and from his despon- dency added, "and have only twenty cents left to last till next Saturday." "Oh, dear!" sighed the wife. "However," said the young man, "I see we have plenty of meal and potatoes; so don't let us worry. I'll cook this chicken for you, or part of it." So under his wife's directions, as this was new work to him, James put tea to draw, cooked some porridge, and fried a small portion of the chicken. "I wish that nice old lady would come in again while you are home, James. I know you would like her." I don't want to see her, even if I would like her: it mortifies me so to live cooped up here and so poor."   102   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Yes: but then she acted so good and  motherly. Mrs. Quade is neighborly; but she is so different."            r , Yes: different from us; it is terrible to have such neighbors." "But we must have washing done, James ; and I told heri if she would do it, I would do some sewing for her. I can sew a little while at a time, I guess; and she agreed to it." James Waters sat down, and covered his face with his hands: in his estimation they had sunk very low.               - , James," said his wife," your tea is boil- ing over, and the chicken is burning." It is often a great blessing, that there are  little cares of life to draw us from great troubles. James began to attend to his cook- ing, and set the tea-table, when there was a knock at the door. "Come in " cried James petulantly, mortified again at visitors while  he was doing housework, and thinking it was   Our Brother's  Keeper.  103 Mrs. Quade of the first floor. The door opened for Aunt Anna. ("O James, this is Mrs. Vail! Good even- ing, Mrs. Vail: you see my husband has to be housekeeper while I am laid up." "Good evening, Mr. Waters," said Aunt I Anna. "There are few men so fortunate as to be able to do these things handily, as you do." "I hope there are few so unfortunate as to have to do them," said James a little sourly; -? and his wife looked distressed. "It is very new to us, anyhow," said James.  "My wife has been used to live comfortably among her own people; and now, between a scoundrel of a landlord, disappointing me of a nice set of rooms by the Central Park, and my having to take up with this place, and work different from what I was brought up to, it goes pretty toughl." "My husband is a wood-engraver," said Mrs. Waters.  O   ',    104  'Our Chatham-Street Uncle. ' I came in, Mr. Waters, because I mean to be neighborly, and to tell you not to worry- about your wife while you are away; for I hope to drop in to see her every day, and she is to send for me if she wants any thing." "Thank you," said James awkwardly. "And I'm going to give myself the pleasure of bringing her a pitcher of nice soup to-mor- row. I'm sure she will relish it." This souhided like charity to James, who said quickly, "Oli! but she will not need it. I am going to make her soup of some of this chicken to-morrow." "Yes : I daresay," said Aunt Anna ' " but then I have had sixty years more experience in housekeeping than you have, and your soup will not be so good as mine. She then bade them good evening, having a very sensible regard to their supper. On her way home, Aunt Anna was laying plans how she could help these yo ung people, who were both poor and proud.   Our Brother's Keeper.   105 Aunt Anna was living on an annuity she had received from a gentleman for whom she had kept house many-years: she had enough for her humble wants; and, by good manage- ment, she was able to help her poorer neigh- bors. One of Naomi's first inquiries the next day was, if Aunt Anna had " found out" about the young man; and she accompanied the question with  ihe information that he had pawned a ring. '"I thought he had visited you again; for I saw an orange on the table last evening, and  he was cooking a bit of chicken for his wife. She mentioned having had some grapes and lemons a week ago, that had been ' so nice: ' he doubtless pawns what few treasures they possess to get her suitable food. She has had a fever, and. is now kept from getting well by Low diet and anxiety." "I  do wish I could see her: is she pleasant? ,   106   Our Chzatham-Street Uncle. is she pretty? and do you suppose they are good folks?"  : "She is yOung, pleasant, and pretty," said Aunt Anna; " but I fear they are not Chris- tians. As you are so anxious to see lher, I do not know as I can do better than to make you the bearer of' a pitcher of soup which I took the liberty to offer them. Very likely the sight of a young face like yours may do her good."   i'  In Aunt Aina's partial judgment, Naomi's presence was sure to be a blessing to every one . Naomi found Mrs. Waters alone, sitting as  usual by the fire, looking sad and careworn. The young girl found no difficulty in intro- . ducing herself. And having put the soup away in the closet, she stopped for a few minutes to talk.4 "Ham so sorry you are sick, and shut up in your room, it is such a lovely day. It is cold; *^rc   Our Brother's Keeper.   107 but the air is delightful: and then it must be so hard to have to stay away from church week after week. I know nothing of it from experience, for I am always well." "Yes: we generally went to church   at home; but here I don't care to go out; indeed, I do not feel as if I cared for, any thing." "That is because you are sick," said Naomi soothingly. "It made me sick, and keeps me sick," said Mrs. Waters wearily. "It is so hard to live in such a place as this, and away from all one's friends. We have been disappointed in all our plans since we came here. Luck has been against us." . "There is no such thing as luck," replied Naomi gravely, "Well, fortune or fate, or whatever you call it. James-was deceived about our rooms, about his business, about the price of living;  108   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. and now he has to do porter's work in place of wood-engraving: his chance is poor." "Do not call it chance or fate," said Naomi: "a good Providence is over all." "I would be glad if Providence were- less hard on us," said the young woman. "Our troubles have made me sick, and I keep fearing they will drive James crazy. He has gone out for a little walk: now we are such poor company for each other. He is fond. of read- ing; but we canl get no books here." Naomi loo(ked earnestly at the speaker. At once she seemed to see the course of those two baffled and discouraged hearts.  They knew no help or comfort higher than them- selves. They were going  down, down. Where might their way' end. Naomi, with her firm health and elastic spirits, saw clearly the apathy into which Mrs. Waters had sunk. And Naomi's was a sensitive' nature, quick to sympathize, ready to plan, firm to execute. plan, firm to ex   Our Brother's Keeper.   109 "Yes," she said: "I have often heard of men driven to suicide, opium, poison, strong drink, robbery, or gambling, by troubles such as these." Mrs. Waters leaned back in her chair, the muscles of her face twitching a little, and growing paler than before, as Naomi thus syllabled her own forebodings. "And,"  continued Naomi, "don't you think -your illness is one of his chief troubles?" "Perhaps so," said Mrs. Waters. "Then if you could only cheer up, and get better; if you could look forward to being well, and think of many things you could do when you are str  on  e of the heaviest burdens would so  on  e. There are a ,reat many things here for a woman to do. know one, a real old lady too, who supports terself and her crippled husband." "I should think she would die of dis- ouragement. "   3ur Chatham-Street Uncle. "No;'she is as cheerful as can be; but then she is a Christian." "Does that make a difference?" began Mrs. Waters.  "But there, there  comes James."  "I Iaust go," said Naomi: "it is getting nearly church-time." Jahes Waters came in; and as he opened his door, and'stood face to face with Naomi, the very girl to whom he had pawned his ring and pictures,. his countenance expressed abso- lute consternation. "A young lady from Mrs. Vail," explained his wife, as he recovered himself, and came forward. I am going now: it is church-ime," said Naomi. Then, with her own impulsiveness, she gave her hand to Mrs. Waters, and, bend- ing over, kissed her, saying, "Cheer up now, and get well." James held open the door, and ,then, mum-   Our Brother's Keeper.   bling something about " seeing the young lady down stairs," went with her in silence until they reached the lowest landing. Then look- ing much  distressed, he stammered, "I hope- I suppose -a temporary emergency -a sudden necessity, I am afraid my wife might be worried "- "If you mean," said Naomi, looking him steadily in the face, about our shop, of course I have not mentioned it before your wife, and do not expect to: it is no affair of mine cer- tainly. But our shop is a poor place to get help from, Mr. Waters. Our uncle is a hard- hearted sort of uncle: it is his business to be so." "Yes, thank you. We have no room now for those trifles; and my wife's illness- well, I mean to take them back shortly," stammered on, James. "Oh! .if you could go all over our shop, you would see what hundreds have been dis-    "2 .  Our Chatkhan-Street Uncle. appointed in just such hopes," said Naomi quickly. ," Your wife says you like to read: perhaps Aunt Anna could lend you something to read aloud;" Tile young man hesitated: he had a foolish pride, that in his present fretted state urged him to refuse the simplest favor; but he had grace enough to say, after a little pause, "If you had a history or a good story, it might shorten the day a little." He therefore went over with her to Aunt Anna's door, and, refusing to go in, waited- until Naomi could find the book. After a hasty consultation with Aunt Anna, the young girl returned with a square copy of "Pilgrim's Progress," carefully wrapped up. "I don't know as you will like this; but it is a handsome English copy, and has very fine colored engravings: as you are an artist, you will' be pleased with them, I am sure." So she gave it to him, and turned away without telling him what the book was.    Our Brother's-  Keeper.   113 James went home and unfolded the volume. , Pilgrim's Progress,' as I live!" he cried. What a sell! but, hullo! these pictures are fine: see this one, Ellen! -and what type and paper'! I daresay it cost half a guinea. He turned over the leaves, and his eye fell on the words, "Sir, I perceive by the book in my hand that I am condemned to die, and after that to- come to judgment; and I find I am not willing to do the first, nor able to do the second."- Then said Evangelist, "Why not willing to die, since this life is attended with so many evils?" "Suppose you read it all, James," said his wife, as he read these words aloud,. It is so dull sitting here silent all day, and I'd like to know how those,pictures come in." So James sat down to read the fascinating tale of Christian's journey to the Land of Light; and wiled by the quaint, strong lan- guage, they went on with the story until the 8   "4   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. morning had passed away, and the clock sur- prised them by pointing to the hour of noon. Meanwhile, Aunt Anna went to church, and, coming home, discoursed about the Chris- tian's duty to his fellow-men, and made out a case very different from that established by Cain and our Chatham-street uncle.   *\ C:F[APTER V.  THE YOUNG DISCIPLE, FEW  weeks before the com- mellcemenlt of this chronicle, Naomi had  united with the church: It was a, conversation that she had held with Aunt Alna on that occasion, that had set her to look for) some Christian work. Until then she had been content to ful. fil what she considered her own private and special duties, and get along as well as she could.  "That is never the way to grow," said   "6   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Aunt Anna: "you must take hlold of some- thing outside. The church in this world is the church militant: we must make war on Satan's kingdom somehow.  What would you think of a soldier who in the enemy's country did nothing but stay in his tent, eat and sleep, and read his book of tactics?" Timothly's remark meant the same thing, but was differently expressed. "If you're going to be a Christian, Naomi, don't be a dead-head." It was well for Naomi, that, in these early days, she had some experienced friends to counsel and encourage ller: her sabbaths spent in Aunt Anna's quiet room, going with her to church, teaching a class of little girls in Sabbath school, or, when the day was nearly ended, listening to the words of experi- ence gathered from the long years of Aunt Anna's life, were, of her chief blessings. "Self-examination anld watchfulness, Naomi, 1    The Young Disciple. ,   117 are needful, and of advantage," said Aunt Anna; " but we must not watch ourselves so closely that we forget to watch Christ. Mostly, however, people neglect th watch either themselves or Christ as they ought. It is well to examine, as one does in a draw- ing lesson,--first the pattern to see its excel- lence; then our work to see where it needs alteration, and how close we can come to the pattern." "There are a many Christian    cripples, child," she said again, " and I don't want you to be one of them. In the spiritual, as in the natural family, there are the maimed and diseased; and but of the abundance of the Father's love, I believe they are dear to his heart, though they ain't much credit to him, poor creatures." Naomi's scheme   of earning  money for charity was well approved by Aunt Anna. "I want to have something, to give to.'the I   t , t.   "8   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. poor," said Naomi. "And there are the Sun- day-school contributions: I cannot ask my class to give if I never bring any thing my- self; and then I wish to give when collec- tions are taken up in church. Thoughl, she added after a pause, "a great mally who are much better able to than I am don't give to them. Miss Callen lets the plate pass by unnoticed half the time; and she is rich." "Now, child," said Abunt Anna, ' there's a fault you must cut off at once. You are looking at the wrong pattern entirely, forget- ting the great Master, and taking heed to the work of some poor learner like yourself. You'll never have any comfort in charity, Naomi, if you measure your giving by those about you. Just look to Christ, who never stinted his measure, but gave himself for us." "And then, Aunt Anna, when I look there, I get discouraged that I can do so little for FHim who did so 1much for me. I do little,   The Young Disciple.     119 and that little seems like seed that dies in the ground. What a satisfaction it would be to see tlat I was really accomplishing  some- thing!" "Satisfaction," said Aunt Anna, "is a word that is often carelessly used. Satisfac- tion is something we can know very little of in this life: it is a cup, Naomi, of which here we can only touch the brim, but in the eter- nioty of the blessed we can drii1( our fill." And so the pearl of days had passed away; and Naomi went home to Chatham Street, carrying with her howhver, some new heart- cheer for Hagar. , Strong contrast to Sunday, came Monday, in the shop. "Comes in te shops, Noami," said our uncle:, "it ish mein vorking veek. I takes mein pawns to auction, all ah have been here dree months."       ' "Oh, dear! this is hurricane week," said  ,    Our Chatham-Street Uncle.  Hagar, with' a sigh; "every thing will fly off, and new things will fly in their places; and nobody will know where any thing is." " It ish te vay of te vorld," said our uncle. " It ish te vay I makes mein piles monish. Te vorld, mein chils, hash netting ash ist stable; and, mein Hagar, hurricanes ist not to be des- pished: vat dosh clear te air so well; eh, Naomi ?" So Naomi went to the shop. She had been there but a short time when la well-dressed lad entered, whose youthful face bore the stamp of strong drink and late hours. Like many another boy of less than twenty years in the city, he was on the road to destruction, lacking that firm parental guidance that might have led him to an honorable manlood. "I want to spout my watch," he said, pull- ing the indicated article from his vest pocket. "Ve does not spout vatches," said Solo. mon; "ish worth too much monish."   The Young Disczple.       121   " Oh, you can't fool me, old uncle. If you don't spout watches, how come so many in your front shop ?" " Ve does lend on. tern ash on te oter goots; but ve canst not sent ter up te spout; ve keeps it for articles in parcels," said Solomon, who was not very busy just then, and nothing loath to have his own kind of jest. "Let me have some money on it, spout or not. Come, now, down withthe dust. Give us fifty dollars on it." "I gives you thirty tollars ons the vatclh ant shane." "I ain't going to let the chaiin go. How can I haze the governor if I let that go ?" "I gives twenty vor te vatch alone." "Twenty dollars, you old miser; and it would bring a hundred any day." I gives twenty." "I'll go some where else, then, double- quick."   Our Chatham-Street Uncle.  "I gives twenty," repeated Solomon coolly. "Make it forty." "I gives vat I saysh." " thirty, now ; come, old cove, down with  the dust. The old lady will give me money to get it out pretty soon." "I saysh twenty," said Solomon; and for twenty the watch was pawned. " Oh, dear! " said Naomi, "only think how you are giving that wretched boy money to squander, and  how   he is cheating, his parents." "It ish none of niein pusiness," said Solo- mon, shrugging his shoulders. "The vatch ist ein gut vatch: vill pring seventy-fife tol- lars, if it ish not reteemed. Put dere ish mein fear, he will pring me te monish. He vill makes his governor ant te olt lady vish tey hat never ein son." " Well," said Naomi,  I should think it would pay to bring up children right. That   boy makes his parents more trouble now than it would have been to make him mind when he was little." Here a woman came in, and asked for Mr. Simpson.      Handing him a ticket, she said hurriedly, "I have come to redeem it. Ten dollars it is, you know." "It vash a cross set mit garnets, I believe," said Solomon slowly. "Yes; very yellow, old gold, and quite large garnets, a carbuncle in the centre. Let me' have it." "It ish too late; dein ticket hash pin run out ein veek." "But here is the money, and I want the cross." *f( "But te tings ist forfeit ven dree month hash pass. It vash dree month von veek ago." " But I hadn't the money then." " It ish none of mein pisness." "But here is the money now, and you must    124   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. let me have it. Oh, sir, give it to me! It is not mine; I must give it back: next week will be too late. Here, take two dollars more, and let me have it." "Now, how you tinks ve can do pisness all ways ash that. Ven te pawn ist forfeit, it ish forfeit: ve gives it vere ve canst get monish. Full value ish twenty tollars. I will go to te auctioneer, and gets it pack vor twenty tollar, ant you pays me so much monish. I am will- ing to helps ein lady." "But I have not twenty dollars: I cannot get so much. The time went by so quickly.' Oh, I know you are keeping it from me! Give it to me for twelve dollars "- "Maype hat petter call a police," said Solo- mon, getting wrathful: " see if te law, ash ist hart on te pawnprokers, vill shay ven te ticket ist up, ant te pawn ish forfeit, it must pe restore." The woman here began to cry hysterically. , J   The Young Disciple.    125 "That vill do," said Solomon. ",I must calls te police to keeps mein shop quiet. Can do ast does like; I vill find te pawn from te auction vor twenty tollar, ant not charge for mein trouples, ast it ish ein lady, or I lets te pawn alone." The woman sat for a while, her face hidden in her handkerchief, then slowly left the store. All this time, the pawned cross was in Solo- mon's safe; but when he could get twenty dollars for it, and had a hold on it from the ticket being -a week overdue, no motives of humanity, nor the fact that he had received from the offered surplus a full compensation for the use of his money, would induce him to give it up. Naomi was at the desk, busy with her uncle's books, but had become so much inter- ested in the affair of the cross, that she was looking off her work. "Does not vaste dein heart on her, Naomi.   126   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Did she not say te cross vash not hers? She is ein false voman; she have stole somebody's cross, I am afraid." "But then, uncle, you had the cross: a stolen cross!" "How can I tell? Maype it ish hers, ant she does only try to get me to give it pack. She did schwear it vash hers ven she- prought it. Vimin, Naomi, ist so false; dein uncle is no match for te vimin.  Von minute they saysh von ting, te next they saysh someting else. Pawnproking i St ein hart pisness." "But, uncle, if you had the cross you would give it back, even if the ticket is run. out a week?  "Ach, who can tell?" said our uncle, with a wink. "Visdom is petter nor rubies, Nao- mi; but garnets ish more petter nor her ten tollars; great deal.' Naomi turned again to her accounts, and her uncle stood near her, sorting little bundles   The Young Disciple.    127 of papers; but his mind was not entirely on his business, for he said presently, ' Naomi, I vash named vor von simple man. Solomon, Naomi, chose visdom pefore monish; it vash von pad pargain, mein girl. If te monish hat not pin given to te poor man mit his visdom, he had pin mighty pad off. He should have hat dein uncle to tell him te vorth of piles molish, eh, Naomi?" Naomi went on writing without replying. Soon her uncle demanded, s"Vy ist tere more hope of ein fool, than of dein uncle?'" "I do not know," replied Naomi absently, summing up a column of figures. "Pecause he isl vise in his own conceit: he ish viser nor Solomon te King, ish Solomon te pawnbroker; eh, Naomi?". Upon these genial remarks of our uncle broke the voice of Daniel. "There's two of your customers gone." "Vat now-?" asked the modern Solomon, "Jerry and his wife."   128   Our Chatham-Street U1nd "Vat ish teo matter: ist tere no more pots and pans left to tern?" "Why, you see," said Daniel, balancing himself on the edge of the nearest counter, "Saturday they both put ill pawns.  She put in his coat, and he got tight oil a tea-kettle and frying-pan. WhTen he was pretty drunk he concluded to spout the coat himself, and found she had been before him. They set in for a fight; and he hit her head with a poker, so she's going to die: they've got her to the hospital, and he's in jail waiting to see if she will really die. The children were carried off to that Home up the Bowery." Solomon shrugged .his shoulders. "Vell, tern two Gentiles vash not mooch use, ant ish small loss. They vash shust like pigs; ant tere pots ant pans, ant te coat, vill bring all I lent on them ; eh, Naomi?" The indignant blood mounted to Naomi's cheeks; her usually mild eyes shot out a new A\   ThIe Young -Disciple..  129 ray of anger; but just then her aunt looked - in at the shop-door, crying "Naomi, Naomi, come hereto me quick!" and, recollecting that the shop was but a poor place to make the! strong protest that had been upon her tongue, Naomi turned slowly away. Consulting *with her aunt over a dress for Judith to wear to a grand Jewish ball did not;; distract Naomi's mind from the terrible news Daniel had so lightlyy unfolded. While fasten- ing blonde land flowers into a head-dress, and basting trimming on Judith's frock, Naomi thought only of the miserable man in his cell, the dying wretch in the hospital, and the flock of worse than orphans over whose childhood such heavy shadow lay. Therefore, when our uncle without a conscience came up to his dinner, and, tweaking her ear as she sat at the sewing-machine, demanded, "Vy ish so sour, Naomi?" all the fire of her indignation burst forth. s.      '      '  .      V   130  . Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "I am thinking!of those wretched people Daniel told of. How can you bear it, uncle? l How can you go 4n letting them have money for such horrible tUse. You have put a knife in your neighbor's land that he may cut his throat." "Vy shoult I care for te Gentile togs?" shhouted our uncle wrathfully: " ant am I ash pad ash te Gentile viskey-seller ash give them te poison?" Tells me that, Naomi. I gives them monish ash may py pread, or their vile pork: your Christian give them viskey olut and out; and ish down on dein uncle, Naomi, ash if he vash te von to plame."' Naomi felt as if she had made a hasty attack, yet still could not exonerate her uncle from all censure. She knew his part of the proceeding was unrighteous; and she said, "I'd go into some other business, uncle, that had nothing to do with such ways." "I coult not make piles monish," said our   ThAe Young Disciple.   Is uncle, soon appeased by his little ebulition o rage. "I'd rather have a smaller pile, and have - all clean," said Naomi. Our friend Judith did not care a fig for he step father, but neither did she care fo Naomi; and she could not forget that Naom had Gentile blood, and was a Christian: more over, just now Judith was cross. She ha torn her white gloves, and found an ominou rip in her best slippers; while, worse than all Rose had reported a remark of one of the Jewish friends, that Judith was getting old and was too fat. All these grievances made a very favorable occasion for a quarrel; so, aftel dinner, while Naomi was. basting more worl for sewing, Judith began, "How dare you talk to father so about the shop. We are as good as you are, and have been in the business -all our lives. What do you suppose your grandfather did in Germany ; and as to your   1328   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. English grandfatlher, I've no doubt that he was a butcher, and killed hogs.  All that saves you at all is a morsel of Jew blood. Don't the rabbi tell us that when the holy city is restored, seven Gentiles shall run for protection to one Jew's gaberdine? Don't tell me that our money is dirty: if it is, why do you share it? You eat it, anid drink it, and sleep it, as well as we do. Dirty is it? ' Would Y it be cleaner if it, was made by pork? Ah! you Christians will read your Nazarene-books, and say your prayers by lard-oil lamps!" All this was sufficiently ridiculous if Naomi had been in a mood to see it so; but she was hurt and offended, so retorted, "Pawnbrok- ing is a mean business, if all my relations fol- low it; and I can make cleaner money by my own hands, and go and live with Aunt Anna to do it; and I will. Don't talk to me about Jews and Gentiles. You all worship money; and it makes you hard as iron. I'd be   The Young Disciple.   li  ashamed, Judith,--a woman, and such a hard heart. You are not sorry for that poor murdered creature, your sister fromn Adam." ' Bah!" said Judith: " don't tell me. Sister? She is a- Gentile. Don't say in Adam: he lost himself.  We Jews -are of Abraham: where is a Gentile like him?" Here Hagar broke out crying, saying they made her head ache, and hurt her feelings by their talk; that Naomi should never go away, and Judith need not quarrel; and Jews were good, and Naomi must not say they were not.  "No," said Naomi: of course, I will never say any thing against Jews, Hagar; I am half a Jew myself. Come here by, me, and I will tell you a story. I am sorry if I hurt -your feelings." But she made no apologies toJudith. All the afternoon Naomi felt sad and uncomfortable: she thought it was be- cause she was living with her uncle, and be- cause it hurt her conscience to share his gains.  r'   134   Our Chathamz-Street Uncle. Just before dark, she. told Hagar she was going for a little walk, to get rested, and then set out for Timothy's, to have a talk with her old counsellor. "I think I must go away from uncle's," said Naomi. "Even Judith sees it is incon- sistent for me to stay there. "Perhaps you had better tell, me the whole story," said Timothy, bending closely over his work. So Naomi gave a very faithful account of the whole matter, and, to her sur- prise, found it looked very differently, even to her, than it had while she brooded over it during the afternoon. Timothy was silent while he adjusted a delicate wheel in a watch. At last he looked ulp quickly. Naomi's eyes * were fixed on the floor. Said Timothy,-- "That was a very beautiful way to set forth His religion, who, when he was reviled, re- viled not agaih." "Yes ," said Naomi with a sigh: "I dol't see how I ever did it."   :iii!       'The Young, Disciple.    1  "I see how," said Timothy. ' Poor child, you have lost your shoes: the way is rough; no wonder you cut your feet." "What Shoes?" asked Naomi. "Patience," replied Timothy. "Don't the good book tell you to run with patience? '" "Yes; but it doesn't call it shoes."  "We'll take it to mean so to-day," said this old. mentor. "Put onl the shoes of Patience, and you won't hurt your own feet, nor tread on your neigllhbor's toes." . "Well, but about staying at uncle's?" "Do as conscience, not as temper, tells you. Ought your uncle to ask the use every custom- er means to put' his money to? Would they be likely to tell the truth? Do half who go there use their money well? Do not some go from absolute necessity, and apply what -is lent for:good purposes? How can your uncle stop, to decide bet ween such fol/s as Waters and Mrs. Roberts, and Jerry and his wife?" ,   1386  Our Chatham--Street Uncle. "Do you justify him, then?" "No: I think he lacks both heart and con- science; but I want you to look at all sides of the matter, and not to be too hard on anybody." \ 'L Good night," said Naomi:"I'm glad you live so near, Timothy." Going home, Naomi found Judith at the work-table, growling over her soiled and torn gloves; for Judith was both fond of show, and avaricious. "Give me the gloves, cousin Judith," said Naomi. "I can clean them, and mend them, and make them look as good as new: a rib- bon quilled about the wrist will hide that seam. I am sorry I quarrelled with you to-day." Judith handed over the gloves gladly, and at once became quite pleasant. Naomi got ribbon, sewing-silk, and a plate of bread- crumbs, and sat down near Hagar to work upon the gloves.   The Young Disciple.   1 "Mother's ever so pleased," whisper Hagar.  "Abraham has been here to  Judith to go to the ball with him. Wol you go with that old thing? .Why, his bea is white!" "I wouldn't say so to anybody," obsern Naomi: " they would not like it, you klno "Rose fetched me the nicest book from stairs," said Hagar: " it is ' The Fairy Quee :     all such queer poetry. I hope it won't whisked off before I read it through." When the family came to supper, Nao put at her uncle's elbow his favorite dish toasted cheese. "Is that what you've been down stairs b. ing up your face over the fire for?" ask Judith. '-     "Ist von gut girl," said our uncle c dially. "Keep up dein courage, Naomi; v mein piles monish ist made, dein uncle vill :. ash gut ash von rabbi!" kA   s*    138   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. The next day occurred one of the periodical hurricanes at our uncle's which were Hagar's aversion. Drays, loaded with every imagin- able variety of pawns, rolled away from the sign of the "Three Golden Balls." Rose, Ju- dith, our uncle's wife, and the three youth Shylocks of the store, rushed about frantically. Simon of the cellar went up and down the ladder at the trap-door in a manner that put his lantern in evident jeopardy; down the spout rattled an avalanche of bundles. The house jarred as heavy articles came down the stairs. Before night every thing had suffered change.  Hagar's brocatel-covered chair had given place to a leather-dressed successor; the favorite lounge made way for a stiff hair- cloth sofa; the dining-room matting was sup- plied by a hemp-carpet; the faded Brussels of the parlor had resigned in favor of a striped- Venetian. These were. some of our uncle's unrighlteous proceedings. Besides getting \   The Youkng Disciple.    139 interest, and that at a higher rate than the law allowed, for the money lent, he made use of the articles in his family. Again: the statue directs that all goods shall be kept one year, but our uncle made way with his when he pleased: sometimes as in the case of the garnet cross, limiting the ticket, and pronoun- cing to his ignorant and often guilty customer the article forfeit.- As to the advertising of pawns to be sold, arranged for by civic law, our uncle had a traditional sort of list, which he occasionally inserted in "The Herald," of which list neither himself nor any one else could make head or tail. Our uncle being gone off to the auction with one of his clerks, and business being ever lively, he had stipulated that Naomi should stay in the shop all day. Daniel was for the time being injustice-in-chief in this establishment, and swelled with new impor- tance. ,.            ..   "O   Our Chathamno Street Uncle. Three little street-sweepers came in, and pawned a gold ring which they had found. Daniel gave them three dollars on it. "What will you do with your money?" asked Naomi, compassionately regarding these small, ragged, old-faced girls. "Buy isters, and go to the Hip'drome to-light," said one; and they all ran off elated. Daniel, too, was elated; for he was sure they would never come after the rin'g,- ' which, being set with a pearl, wasworth some ten dollars. The day was a long one to Naomi.  At night, while yet in the shop, as her uncle delayed his return, Naomi noticed a man wrapped in a cloak, who came in; and taking to the counter several large parcels which lie  had carried concealed, he asked for Mr. Simp- son. Sinbe that worthy was away, the stranger condescended to negotiate with Daniel; and they promptly retired behind   The Young Disciple.    141 our uncle's side-screen, out of sight iof most in the shop, but in full view of Naomi, who, to her astonlishment, saw him take from his parcels several dozens of handkerchiefs of all sizes and styles, a fine assortment of gloves, several snuff-boxes, spectacle-cases of different patterns from silver to morocco, not less than twenty purses and pocket-books, and a jumble of articles of less value.  These things Daniel indubitably bought, for he gave no tickets for them. The stranger stroked a dyed mustache, adjusted his cloak, said good- evening to Daniel, and, with an approving nod at Naomi, left the shop. "I'll never stay here another evening for anybody!" cried Naomi. The next evening was that of the ball. Mrs. Simpson was as fond of balls as her daughter, and took herself to the scene of amusement, escorting, or escorted by, Daniel. Judith  having departed with the veteran   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. pawnbroker Abraham, and Rose taking the libefty of going to the theatre, Naomi and Hagar were left to the luxury of an evening by themselves.  Naomi established Hagar comfortably in a large chair, and then, taking the work she was doing for Ewings, sat down near the light. "I havn't got acquainted with this new furniture yet," said Hagar; " but part of it is goingto be very interesting. Just look at the feet of that sideboard, Naomi." "Yes: those two griffin's heads," said Naomi. " Those two are real griffias, from - well, from  the big desert of Africa.  They are enchanted. King Solomon enchanted them like he did the Afites that lie put in bottles. But, Naomi, they talk to me, and have promised to tell me all about Egypt. They lived there when Joseph did, and saw Moses in his basket that [time when lie was a baby,   and know all about those kings that have been mummied up ever so long." "That, certainly, will be a very interesting piece of furniture," said Naomi. "Say, Naomi, who all do you suppose lhave ever sat in that chair you are in, and by that table ?" continued Hagar. "Why," said Naomi, willing to humor her little cousin, " it has been in a grandmother's parlor, with queer things from  India and China on it; and it has been a mother's work- table where she mended all the little chil- dren's clothes; and it hastheen in the school- room where the children learnt their lessons. And two young people, who lived in two dear little rooms, ate their breakfast from it." "And how came it here ? " asked Hagar delighted. " Oh, why ? well," said Naomi,forgetting her romance in an intricate matter of knitting, "very likely they all died."    Our Chatham-Street Uncle.  And went to Jerusalem above ? " "Yes. It must be so nice to meet there, you know,- the kind old grandmother, the faithful mother, the children got safe out of this world, the young people together still "- "Your thought is nicer than the Jews' thought," said Hagar.  "You look for the holy city in its glory, just as soon as you are dead. Your good folks have got there all before you; but the Jews look on, they don't know how long, for Jerusalem to be restored, and it has been so many years; and some think the Lord has forgotten them; and some, like father, don't believe any thing; and some, the rabbi says, are buried with their feet to the holy city; and others sell all they have, and go there to die. And, Naomi, the rabbi says the poor Jews that are there now can. only kiss the stones of the old Temple, and go outside of the wall to pray and cry." Yes," said Naomi, "it is very sad: it is the judgment for rejecting the Messiah."   ! ;-                                              ;   The Young Disciple.   145   ' Well, Naomi, I have been reading your part of the Bible, and I don't see how they could act so. For of course he was the Mes- siah, and I shall always believe it; only I don't like to tell them so just yet." Naomi did not urge her little cousin to make aliy assertion of her belief to her family; for she remembered that she was a child, and her opinions might easily be changed by an attack upon them. And she felt, that if the New Tes- tament were placed in her hands, and she were taught to pray, that God would strength- en her new-born faith, and teach her young heart its duty. So now she only said,- "If you really take Jesus for your Saviour, Hagar, you will be a true daughter of Israel." From  the shop below came the constant sounds of trampling feet, loud toned, doors opening and shutting with a bang,--thesounds that for at least sixteen hours out of the twenty-four made the shop a Babel. Just 10  "6   OZur Chatham'-Strret Uncle. without all this tumult, alld  :to jostling of cares and sorrowrs upon cacll otlher, sat Naomi and Hagar, children of the King of Peace, sheltered under the covert of his wings. "Naomi," said Hagar, " we lhear the noise of the shop just a little, and how nice and quiet and comfortable we are up here! -When I look out at night, Naomi, I think how all the noise and worry of this world stops below the stars; and up on the other side of that quiet sky, the angels walk up and down the golden streets you read to me about." "Yes," said- Naomi, quoting from somae fragment of verse:- "But on the golden streets, the holy people Are walking to and fro." "We must get there some day, Naomi' said Hagar. But while Naomi meditated on sweet themes that Hagar's words had called into her mind,   The Young Disciple.    14 she was brought back by thb same voice that had set the current of hler thoughts leaven- ward, discoursing now of sublunary things. "O Naomi! suppose everybody who had pawned all these tilings should come in right now, and carry them away: why, we would be left here all by ourselves, with not even a chair to sit on!"   CHAPTER  VI. THE GARNET CROSS. WHEN Sunday came, Naomi went to Aunt Anna, thinking much of going to see Mrs. Waters, to whom she was carrying a paper of little frosted cakes. At Aunt Anna's she found the old lady not quite dressed for the Sabbath, and the cur- tains were let down before the bed in the recess to her largest room. -"I've got an invalid here," said Aunt Anna. "Why, who is it; not Mrs. Waters?" "8   The Garnet Cross.    149 "No: a poor stranger whom the Lord cast uponl my charity. Timothy brought her in here Friday night.  She has taken some mlor- phine, and is in a heavy sleep." Naomi went softly across the room, and peeped in between the curtains. She started a little, and, coming back, said, "Aullt Anina, wherever did you find that vomall?" "Why; hIave you ever seen her?" asked Aunt Anna. "Yes: she made quite a scene in. our shop about a cross, set with garnets, which she had pawned; and uncle said the ticket was run out, and she, could not have it: indeed, he said it was already gone out of his hands. And it seemed as if she must have stolen or borrowed the cross, from what she said." "Poor thing, I'm afraid there's some sad story about it. Timothy left here Friday even- ing about nine, and he met this woman pass- ing the door. She looked so wild, l1e followed   150   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. her; and, as she went on muttering and walk- ing fast until they got past Greenwich Street, he took her by the arm, and asked her where she was going. "She said she was going to drown herself: but Timothy just said quietly, 'No, not this time; turn about;' and turned her around, and began leading her back. Hie saw she was in a high fever, and out of her right mind; so he brought her in here to me. It appears as if trouble of mind had brought on her illness; and, though I did think of sending her -to the hospital, I changed my mind, and con- cluded to keep her if I could. At the hos- pital they might cure her body for a while, but would not be likely to touch whatever trouble lies on her heart." "Perhaps you can do her good, Aunt Anna; but I'm afraid she is a wicked wo- man," said Naomi doubtfully. "The true way, my child, is to hate the sin,   The Garnet Cross.    151 and love the sinner. If Christ had let us alone because we were wicked, where would we be?" "That is true enough," said Naomi. "I suppose you cannot go to church to-day, Aunt Anna?" "No: I must stay with my invalid. Our minister's wife was in here yesterday a fewr minutes, and she sent dowii some gelatine and some crackers. I wish you would step over with a portion to Mrs. Waters." "Are they getting on anly better?" asked Naomi.  "I'm afraid not. That makes me think, that, as he is getting so discouraged, he may pawn his engraver's tools; and, if he does, I hope you will'do any thing you can towards' keeping them for him to get back. If he loses them, he may give up altogether." "I  think you are looking betters" said Naomi to Mrs. Waters, whom she was glad to ;^ .           . 9 .       '   152   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. find alone. "See, I have broulght you some- thing to make you better yet ;'} and she put down the little basket she had filled at Aunt Anna's. "Tlalk you': it is very kind," said Mrs. Waters with some hesitatioi; " but I think - perhaps James will not like it: we are not used' to charity."      f "-Oh " said Naomi in a frank, matter-of- fact way. "This iS not charity: this is only a little act of neighborly kindness, such as an invalid has a right to look for. If I get sick, I shall expect you to come and see me oftein, and bring just such things." Mrs. Waters smiled a little, and allowed Naomi to put the dainties away in the closet. "What are you going to do all day?" she asked. r' I shall be in church and Sunday school much of the time," replied Naomi. ( Dear, isn't that pretty dull for' a yqung girl like you,"        '   The Garrnet Cross.    15 Oh! I enjoy it very much," said Naomi. "At home," said Mrs. Waters, " we alway used to dress up, anld have a nice dinller; an sometimes our friends dropped in, or we too a walk, or a ride; but now we can have n more such pleasant things." "May I ask you a very plain question?' said Naomi, "Yes, of course," replied Mrs. Waters. "If you did not sanctify the Lord's daI according to his commandment, is it strang that he' has taken from you the means oi breaking it?" Mrs. Waters looked offended; but Naom was resolved to speak the truth with boldness She Ihad  been interested to relieve thi woman's physical wants: ought she not mucl more to minister to the spiritual necessity "God expressly says," she continued, " ' Then that honor me, I will honor.' We honor bj obedience. If you were not a loyal servant of   154   Our Chath/am-Street Uncle. the King of kings, can you expect his con- tinued protection?" "I'm sure," said Mrs. Waters, both hurt and vexed, "we have always been very respectable: we were well thought of, aild as good as any of our neighbors, whatever we may seem now." "That you were and are moral and respect- able .I see plainly," said Naomi; " but God expects us to be religious. I7: eope you will not be angry at my plain talk, for I want you to be my friend. I thnk it ii my duty to say what may be the reason God illhas let trouble come upon   you, to brilg you to love and serve him as his dear children. If I knew ' more, I might have spoken all this much bet- ter, and Inot have hurt your feelilgs. I'm sure I didn't want to do that." Naomi was evidently so sincere, and looked so gentle and anxious, that Mrs. Waters could cherish nro  hard feeling towards her. She i,   The Garnet Cross.    155 took the hand Naomi held out, and accepted her offered kiss. "You religious people are very queer," she said; " but I believe you mean well. I dare say we would have been better off if every- body were religious; for then James would not have been disappointed in his work, nor cheated about our rooms." "Did you like the book Aunt Anna lent you?" asked Naomi. "Yes: James finished it, and took it back this' week. -We had never thought it would be interesting, but it was. I hope I'll be well enough -to do soclething before long. Can't you tell me some kind of work I can do. I don't know much of such things. I always lived with my uncle, and have never had to work for myself." "Some other day," said Naomi, "I will tell you all I know. I will try and come up some day this week."   156   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Your aunt has lent us another book, and James is going to read it to me when he comes home. He hates this- house so; and then all the week he has to work with rough porters: it is so different from engraving." "You must keep your courage up," said Naomi, "and perhaps he will get his own kind of work soon." "ie ought to," said the wife sadly; " for James has talent, and can design ps well as cut. He could get up first-rate pictures, I know; only he never has half a chance." That Sunday was hardly as comforting to Naomi as some others. The quiet at Aunt Anna's was broken by the presence of the in- valid. Naomi thought she dwelt in much turmoil during six days of the week, and was almost ready to complain that the seventh day of calm had been thus invaded. But these thoughts she checked, and, going home early, spent a pleasant evening with Hagar in their } A. s  ^   m1ne Larnge urcvaa.    I v, own room, - telling her, among other things, thbestory of the garnet cross as far as she knew it. Hagar was quite excited by this account. She thought it strange as a fairy tale, and was eager to hear the sequel, which Naomi prom- ised to tell her if she ever became acquainted with it. It was several years, however, before Naomi could summon -up courage to keep this- promise. Early in the week, while Naomi was busy in the shop, the lad who had pawned the watch came to redeem  it. "The old lady put down," he explained, as Naomi was attending to the matter of tickets. Speaking almost before she was aware, Naomi said, " ' A foolish son is the heaviness of ijs mother.'" "Whew-w!" said the lad: " here's a saint in a pawnbroker's establishment! I say, Sol- omon, here's your clerk quoting your-prov-w erbs!P" Our uncle had one good trait, and that was:   158   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. fondness for his niece; and now, thinking her insulted in some shape, he came briskly up, crying, "Any poty as vill shay yon vort mein Naomi dosh not likes, vill pe put vrorn mein shops. Mint dein vorts, young man!" "I only said, here was a saint in a pawn- broker's shop," explained the lad; " that was a compliment, you know." "Shust ash it vas meant, mein lad; and it, vere vell to have von saint vere tere ish -so many sinners; eh, Naomi." Our uncle appearingi a little more malleable tlfan usual, Naomi said, "Uncle, you remem- ber that poor woman that wanted the cross: couldn't you get it for her for what money she had?" "Te voman ish gone," said our uncle. "'But if she should come in here again for t?" - "Nein, nein, chilt: vat ish forveit ish for- veit; let us:shay no more apout it. She vill k,-   The Garnet Cross.    159 learn visdom py that, and not lets her tickets runs out." Naomi found an opportunity during the week to go up and see Aunt Anna. She-was anxious to know how the old lady stood the cares of nursing, and how the patient was prospering. Besides, she wanted to go and see Mrs. Waters, and propose fancy-work to her as an agreeable means of lightening the pressure of poverty that rested upon them. She was going swiftly along Spring Street, when having almost reached one of those liquor-stores, that - most horrible traps - are set at nearly every tturning to catch souls and  bodies, she glanced about, and saw James Waters near the door; a rough-looking man, evidently no congenial companion for him, apparently urging him to come ill.  The unwary James might have yielded; but look- ing -up, he recognized Naomi.  He felt ?.u^::: ashamed of the place he was .entering,   160   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. ashamed of his companion, ashamed of him- self: he did not know whether to venture to bow; but Naomi, passing by, bowed, and said, ' Good-evening.' He turned suddenly from the fatal step, and joined her. "They walked in silence for a few minutes, when Naomi said, "I wouldn't, Mr. Waters: that is worse than our shop.". He knew what she meant. "I never have gone to such places," he said deprecatingly; "yet one is driven to the wall sometimes, and doesn't know what to do."  "One will never get any help at a liquor- store: it is best to be brave, and wait until better days come."  They were on the side of the street on which Mr. Waters lived; and now coming to a crossing, Naomi bowed again, and went over to the other side, and, passing along another square, came to Aunt Anna's. As she went in, she saw that James Waters was slowly nearing his own home.   The Garnet Cross.    1I Naomi found Aunt Anna's patient sitting up, looking very feeble and unhappy: as Naomi came in, the stranger dropped her head upon her arms folded in her lap, and sat there as one utterly crushed and despairing. "This is Jane Craig, Naomi," said Aunt, Anna; but the woman did not look up. "Naomi will not gossip about you, Jane; and, as she lives at Mr. Simpsol's, she may be able to tell you something about the cross. I hope you can get it yet." "Tell her what you like," said Jane: "it will make no difference now; all the town will know it soon, Getting the cross won't do me much good, since Catharine's told of "Perhaps she has not," said Mrs. Vail, try- ing to soothe her patient. "Yes, she has; and she might as well. I couldn't live in dread of her tongue." "As I told you, Jane,' Who1o confeseth % n   ' .  *  *  *  -  '  '    162   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. and forsaketh sin shall find mercy.' You had better let me go, and tell your mistress where you are, and in what state; and you can either write a full acknowledgment to her, or ask her to come and see you. Do noti put it off, for all in a few days you may be able to go out." "I'll never tell you her name while I live," groaned Jane. "As to the cross," said Naomi, I spoke to uncle; and he said it was gone, and' twelve 'dollars would 'not get it back. But very likely he would yet do as he said, and get it from wherever it is for full value." "As the cross is such a precious keepsake to your mistress, Jane," said Mrs. Vail, " it is your duty at once to let her know where it is, and she will probably make up what is lacking of the twenty dollars to recover it." "Jane did not reply, -and A:fnt Anna con- tinued, "Na'omi had better tell Timothy to *   The Garnet Cross.    16 come up this evening, and you can send hir to your friends." "I haven't any friends," said Jane in E smothered voice; " but if this Naomi is young and fond of dress, and thinks she's handsome tell her to hate dress, to choose plain clothes. and believe herself a fright: if I had, perhaps now I would have had friends and a home." Then, changing her tone for one of piteous entreaty, she said, "Only let me stay here until I can walk, and I'll do ally thing you tell me .-" When Naomi was going home, Aunt Anna had an errand to the grocery, and went a short distance with her. "Tifs Jane," she said, "was humble. companion to a rich maiden lady; but, led by love of dress and  amusement, had, during  a three-months' absence of her mistress, pawned part of the jewels, and worn some of the clothes left in her keeping. The loss of the garnet cross, and the discovery of 4    -164   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. her dishonesty by a fellow-servant, are bring- ing her practices to light. She is sure her mistress will leave her to the penalties of the law, and that her own family, who are respect- able people, will cast her off. These terrors have made her ill, and are now overwhelming her; but it is more terror than penitence." "I shall talk to Timothy," said Naomi. "I don't feel as if it is- safe to have her there with you." "I am not afraid," said Aunt Anna: " she knows I have no money at all just now, and I am sure is in no mood to rob ally one. I hope she will be led to humility and confes- sion. If I could, find out who her friends were, I should feel it my duty to send to them." Saturday morning Mrs. .Vail was enlight- ened about the relatives of Jane Craig, who yet seemed in sullen despair, hardly speaking, groaning much, and refusing to eat. Timothy ,                      ,.s   I! The Garnet Cross.    16 came up with a copy of "The Herald," cor taining an advertisement of the disappearanc of Jane Craig,- of a garnet cross and som other jewelry, and asking information. ".Jane- Craig," said Aunt Anna firmly "Timothy must certainly answer this adver tisemeIlnt." Jane wrulng her llands. "Give me onlj one mnore day!" she cried. "Let 'me have until to-morrow! I will surely go then. Wail until to-morrow,"  she added   hurriedly, "People will be out to church then: all will be quiet, anld I will go. One more day; only onell!" "To-morrow, then," said Aunt Anna," you mnust go, or Timothhy must." "She'll run away," said Timothy privately to his half-sister.  "I think not," said Aunt Anna, whose charity hoped all, things; " and, if she does, you can go yourself, and she will easily be found."   166   .Our Chatlhamn-Street Uncle. "But if she gets in a drowning humor again?  "O1! she will not: she was wild with fever that night," replied Aunt Anna; but one can be too charitable. Sunday ;morning came, and Naomi was at Aunt Anna's ready to go to church. Jane Craig, withl a face that seemed to Naomi very hard and defiant, had dressed to go out. Tlhe three went from the room ; and good Aunt Anna, according to the custom of years, locked her door, and put the key under the mat. She knew-all who lived in the house with her, and feared none. After the quiet walk to church, the devo- 'tion of puthc worship, and the return occupied with conversation on what they had heard, Aullt Anna and Naomi reacled home to find the door partly opel, and Jane Craig sitting at the table within the room. This was an intrusion at which Aunt Anna looked sur-   The Garnet Cross.    167 prised, and Naomi rather displeased. As they entered, Jane started up, and tossed something into her mouth. Mrs. Vail stepped forward, and grasped her hand, which held a very small vial. "Jane!" she cried, " are you poisoning yourself?  Jane tore herself away, flulg the vial in the fire, and then cast herself upon the bed upon her face. "Run for a'doctor, Naomi!" said Aunt Annlla. "What ever has this wretched woman been doing!" Jane Craig had indeed taken poison; but guessing as she had at a fatal dose, and dis- covered and lelped so promptly by Aunt AnSna, the effect which she had so rashy desired was not at once obtained. She was conveyed to a hospital, where she died the second day after. Timothy, who had retained the advertisement of Jane's friends, went early on Monday to find them; and Naomi, while not daring to   168   Our Chatham-Strect Uncle. distress Hagar with so sad- a story in some measure connected with themselves, took it to her uncle. "Uncle, that woman who pawned the cross has taken poison." "Vy! how dosh know, Naomi?" "She was up on Spring Street," replied Naomi, thinking it prudent not to mention Aunt Anna; " asnd she tried to poison herself, and is carried to the hlospital." "Ach h! I vunter valh it her cross, Naomi?" "No; i-t belonged to her mistress: And she pawned other things that were not hlers, and wore the lady's clothes; and some one found it out, and told of her; and she ran away, and took poison." "Ach! Naomi. I vunders vill they cares vor te cross?" "I believe it was valued highly, uncle, as a keepsake."   The Garnet Cross.     169 "Vy, mein girl!" cried our guileful uncle, "I velt shorry vor te voman, ant vosh, going te morning to vinie the cross vrom te auction. I vill loshe puy it; put I youtt do it vor ein voman; eh, Naomi?"     . "You had' better have it ready, for they may come for it. Of course you thought it was her own, for she looked like a lady; and it was only worth twenty dollars." "Vor sure I tink it vash hers. Voult I take it ant I did not, mein girl,? Saysh she,' It ish mein.' Vell, I takes it; eh, Naomi?" Our uncle privately went as far as his safe for the disputed cross, and -within a week it was redeemed. Our uncle was very polite, and rather profuse in his remarks on the occa- sion; and no fault was found with him. Nobody but our uncle himself understood the matter entirely; and, as we have stated, he had merged both heart and   conscience in a struggle for what he called " piles monish."   170   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Yet this very garnet cross was an important item among the maiy that had wrecked a life. An irreligious training, a careless mistress, the voices of flatterers who cared not for her soul, a fellow-servant rejoicing over her down- fall, a Chatham-street uncle quick to take, and eager to keep the bauble, - all these had wrought the ruin; and so another bitter life had met a bitter end. Too late had Aunt Anna been able to bring help. Jane Craig had sown the wind, and must reap the whirlwind forever. 4 "'        CHAPTER VII. TWO FESTIVALS. I INTER came on apace.  The roofs were whitened with snow; the sleigh-bells rung merry P chimes through the streets; poverty cut with a keener tooth, and ground down hearts with a heavier heel. But wealth grew buoyant and elate, as the days of good cheer, of gifts and saluta- tions and festivities, drew nigh. Wlhile Naomi had lived with Aunt Anna, she had kept the Christmas-tide with some heart-knowledge of its' meaning. For the 171   172   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. four years she had been at her uncle's, she had still gone to Aunt Anna's to celebrate the natal day of Christianity, and given to the old lady and Timothy some token of her love. *  She was now even more than iusually inte- rested in the holiday-time; for this was her first year as a Sabbatlh-school teacher, and the school was to have a Christmas-tree. Very swiftly flew Naomi's fingers through the meshes of parti-colored wools, that, forming sacques, hoods, capes, scarfs, bags, or mittens, would be among other people's Christmas remembrances; and with joy she saw her increasing, store of earnings. Our Naomi, wanted to take Mrs. Roberts the present that her daughter might have given, had she -lived till now. She wished to brighten the day for Mrs. Waters with a gift. Timothy must have a warm scarf of her own manufacture, and Aunt Anna's beautiful old face should be set in a new and becoming cap. Then there was   Two Festivals.      173 the Sunday-school tree, which she must do her share to decorate. Naomi loved the Sunday school, but nevertheless had her own tribula- tions growingc out of it. "How did you get on in school to-day?" asked Timothy, as, according to custom, he was taking her home on sabbath evening. "Not very well," replied Naomi, sighing. "What was the matter? were the children restive? or did you not get interested in study- ing your lesson?" "It was not that," said Naomi ; " but I don't think the superintendent acts fairly. Of course I could not say or do any thing; but I felt very much hurt. Miss Willis's class had all run down; and he came and took the two best and largest scholars out of my class, and A  put them  in hers. I think it was a real shame; don't you?" "I cannot make up my mind to think that, unless I knew his reasons. I hope he did it      Ai   174   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. because he felt it would, in some way, be for the best interest of the whole school, and the good of souls.' "Miss Willis's father is one of the head men * in the church ; but that is no reason why my class should be robbed to build up hers," said Naomi with some acrimony. "Now, Naomi, you must once and for all make up your mind never to cherish hard thoughts about cllurcll or Sunday-school mat- ters. Why, child alive, you can't expect the Spirit of Peace to come and dwell where there are strifes and heart-burnings. The child of God must not strive, and especially in the very gateways of the kingdom. I tell you, Naomi, this getting hurt, and picking up trifles, is a disgrace to the cause of Christ, a dishonoring of God, and brings many a soul shoft of heaven." "Of course I couldp't say any thing to any one there; but it does try rme to think of the way the superintendent acted."  V   Two Festivals.     175 "Then don't think of it at all." "But one is possessed of reason, and must think," remonstrated Naomi. "Then take counsel of reason, and not of wounded self-love," replied Timothy. "Donl't the apostle tell us not to think of ourselves more higllly thal we ought to think, and that meanls not to think highly at all. Mind this, Naomi: if your self-love grows up into a tree, Christianity shrinks in its shadow to the size of a bit of groundsel. There is many a man, Naomi, holding his selfish views and interests so close to his eyes that he canlt see Him whom he professes to call his Master. You can hide the sunl by a dinner-plate, Naomi, if you hold the plate in the right place to, do it." I6'  hope I shall remember that," said Naomi: ' I need it." "There are few but what do need it," said our friend Timothy, " and miss a deal-'by not knowing it.  -Many besides Isaac have   I (U  uur thzazam-OFree uIcite.- found living water in a valley; and Bnnyan says truly, fthat the Valley of Humiliation is a rare, pleasant place to live in, if one don't get too many slips going down there." This was such goodly converse as Christian and his brother wayfarer held to keep them- selves from falling asleep in the enemy's coun- try. Timothy soon came to his little den where he slept, surrounded by his small stock of tools and valuables; with his Bible and a copy of the famous Dream for good colmpany; and our Naomi, entering the door opelled by Rose, was again under our uncle's shadow,      within the spells of the "Golden Balls." We  i know some licensed lunatics, who, amid other vagaries, wear about their necks a tiny bag of saint's dust and ashes as an amulet to fend off the attacks of the evil one. Naomi, wiser and happier, carried her amulet in her heart,- even the love of God,--and so dwelt in peace and purity amid the strongholds of ,the   enemy. She found that evening Daniel and, his fellow-clerks throwing dice; our uncle getting up a bogus advertisement; our uncle's wife absorbed in a novel; and the apatletic Judith lolling in a big chair, lazily enchanting  the venerable Abraham, whose '"Three Gold- en Balls" lhung conspicuous, not a stone's tlrow away.  Ott of this small vortex of worldliness and selfishness, Naomi and Hagar withdrew, and closed the day with praise and prayer. Waking in the night, Naomi found Hagar Sitting up in bed, her chin resting upon her knees, and her arms  loosely clasped about them. The child's dark hair, unconfined by net or cap, fell about her shoulders, and her face was fixed in intent thought. Naomi had opened the stove-door before retiring; and the red light from the fire mingled with the white moonbeams that found their way in at the wilndow. 12   178   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Why, Hagar, lie down," said Naomi: "you will get cold; what are -you up there for?" "I'm not cold a bit," said Hagar: "I got tired of lying awake, and so I sat up. I'm just thinking." "You ought to be sleeping: what are you thinking about?" "Oh, every thing! I've thought the house all over. I've been up in the garret, where there is'nt much of any thing but dust. It is a miserable place to hang the clothes in bad weather, and I .don't wonder they look grim. When- you and I go to housekeeping, Naomi, we'll have every thing tidy; won't we?" "Yes," said Naomi sleepily. "Then I went into the front rooms, all full of everybody's things. I thought, suppose every thing went off to-night to their first owners, how funny it would be. In the morn- ing, we wouldn't have a thing for housekeep-   Two Festivals.     179 ing. And I said, what if the ghosts of all that ever owned the things could come here to look after their property. Then I heard tlhem walking up and down. wnhispering; their clothes rustling, -as many as two hundred, Naomi,--up and down stairs in every room, very softly. I thnk I should like to be a ghost, and go about so." "Why, Hagar," cried Naomi, "how   you talk! there are no ghosts. Are you afraid, child?"  ' Oh, o!" said Hagar simply: "I was only thinking, you know."- Whllat a  queer child you are," said Naomi. "I ought to be," replied Hagar: "I've always lived among such queer things. We're not at all like other people. Our house, Na- omi, is just like a  big book withlabout a thousand stories in it: all begin very interest- ing, but broken-off just as they've gone about a  page. It mixes one up. I don't know but   180   Our Chatham-Street Uncle.- I'm a broken-off story myself. Sometimes I wonder if I am not that very same Hagar who dwelt in Paran, got into the world this time with a crippled knee." "If you are," said Naomi, falling into the child's mood, " what has become of Ishmael?" "I never could quite make up my mind about him," said Hagar laughing. "You know I ought to rememlber how I took him a wife out of the land of Egypt,- and how he went to bury Abraham; but I don't: so I suppose I am not that Hagar after all." When  Hagar had  said this, she unclasped her hands, gave her pillow  a conciliatory push or two, and settled herself in bed again. She had talked off her nervous excitement, and was ready to go to sleep: this was what Naomi had expected when she humored her by talking with lier. There could hardly be a worse place for an imagin- ative,. sensitive creature like Hagar, than this   Two Festivals.     181 shop where she lived: but for the healthful influence of Naomi she would have perished long ago of the/atmosphere of her home; and, as it was, she could not there grow in body, or increase in health and strength. Naomi thought her cousin was asleep, and was just getting drowsy herself, when Hagar spoke again, - "Naomi, do you suppose Judith is going to marry old Abraham?" "I'm sure I don't know," replied-Naomi. "I think  he's a horrid old thing," said Hagar: " he only comes here when he can't keep his shop open. It wouldn't make much, difference to us, would it, if she went away; only you wouldn't have so much sewing to do, Naomi?" "No: only to get her-realy," said Naomi sleepily. 4' 011! I didn't thihk of that; but I about wish she would marry him, so I could see a   182   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. wedding. That is the trouble of being lame, Naomi: I never can see any thing." This ended Hagar's discussion for that night. Bright and early she was awake, and her tongue going again. "Naomi, if I believe in Jesus of Nazareth I'm a Christian, ain't I?" "If you believe him with your heart," said Naomi. "Why, I think he must be Messiah, and the kindest that ever was," said Hagar; " and, if I am a Christian, I ought to keep Christmas, oughtn't I?" "There is no ought about it, and of course the folks wouldn't like it," replied Naomi. ".They needn't know it: they never ask me any thing, and I never tell them any thing. I don't mean to make a fuss about it, but just to go on quiet, and make some presents like you do." "I don't see any harm  in that," said Naomi, who was putting the room in order.   Two Festivals.     183 "The truth is, Naomi," pursued Hagar con- fidentially, "I am most dreadful tired of having nothing to do. I hate sitting stuck up in that dingy old parlor day after day, fussing at things that I don'tcare for, and nobody else does. The new old furniture, Naomi, is pretty stupid after all. The griffins have told me about all they know of Egypt and the 'desert: they are sleepy old beasts, and never observed at all; I think Solomon did just right to enchant them." "I'm sorry you read all th t false stuff about Solomon," said Naomi.  "He was a servant of God, an. there is no such thing as enchantment." "I don't suppose there   is really," said THagar; " but anyway the rabbinical books are full of it. And the rabbi had a deal rather I would read all sorts of queer things about Satan and witchcraft than your part of the Bible. Oumrpart," she added, correcting her- self.   184   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. '"Yes: many of the Jews pay more atten- tion to such foolish stories, and the traditions, than to the law; and they have gone far astray. Do they keep sabbath, or respect the synagogue, or obey the Ten Commandments?" "No," said Hagar: ' when I read the Scriptures, I think how different thel Jews are now from what they were in the old times." "It is no wonder," said Naomi," when they have cast away their Redeemer, and set the Talmud above the book God gave them. See what poor stuff the Mishna is beside the Bible ; and I am sure the Gemara, instead of explain- ing it, confuses it more and more. And then what foolish and wicked things are put in it. It says,' The Bible is like water; the Mishna like wine.' That is meant to despise the Bible; but it can be a compliment: for the Bible is pure and true as God gave it; and tile Mishna is a decoction of man's follies. The Bible, like water, will not injure, but re-   Two Festivals.     185 freshes; but the Mishna, like wine, leads the I Ibrain astray. I can't get any good out of another sentence in the Mishna though; for it says, "He that hath learned the Scripture, and not the Mishna, is a blockhead!" '"I wonder if the rabbi believes that. He is a good man," said Hagar; " and that makes me think, Naomi, the rabbi came here yester- day to talk about you. He spoke to mother and Judith; and they said they could-not do any thing because they were not your rela- tions, and it was all father's business. So he waited for father, and said he must make you come back to the faith of your fathers, and not go with Gentiles; but you must keep Jews' sabbath, and go to synagogue, and all that. Father told him you were not like other women: you had your own mind, and would not change it for him. Then they fussed for a while ; and rabbi threatened like every thing, and said father must turn you out for a vile   186   Our Chatha-m-Street Uncle. Gentile; and no good Jews should speak to you ; and the elders should curse you. That made father very angry; and hp said you should stay here as long as the roof stood. Then, Naomi, the rabbi said you would per- vert the daughters of Israel: that meant Judith and me." "What then?" asked Naomi eagerly. "Why, Judithl laughed, and I began to cry. Not that I felt bad or afraid; but I can always make the most by crying. So I cried, I must have my Naomi to take care of me, and - $leep with me, or I would -never eat another mouth- ful.' And then father said, to hush up every- body, his sister's child should stay with him, and I might have my Naomi; and all the rest were good Jews, and went to synagogue; and we all should have a lot of money after a while." At this climax of her uncle, Naomi could not help laughing; and, the bell ringing just   Two Festivals.      187 then, she helped Hagar down to breakfast, where, as usual, she had to make up for the absence of her late-sleeping aunt and Judith, by pouring coffee, and listening to all com- plaints. During breakfast-time, Hagar succeeded in extorting two dollars from her father;: and, when they had left the table, she announced to Naomi her intention of " going shopping." Naomi was clearing up the parlor, which the day before had left very untidy. Pending her arrangements in that room, she had estab- lished Hagar on the sofa, and covered her with a big shawl. Her aunt and Judith were now eating their breakfast; and the door'being closed, Hagar occupied the time by telling what she" meant to do for Christmas. "I'm going to buy you a present; and I shall never, never tell you what it is until I give it to you.  And, as I don't know anybody but Jews, I mean to give presents to some of your i i   188   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. people. There's our old woman that meant to pawn tlihe bonnet, Naomi: I mean to make her something. What would you give her?" "She hasn't any hood," said Naomi: " per- haps you might get some yarn, and knit her one." "What color?" asked Hagar cautiously. "Why, black; and put a little purple worsted in the border." "Red is much prettier," said Hagar. "I don't think she would like red," said Naomi. '"And what can I give that old man who thinks he is a boy?" '"Couldn't you quilt some warm slippers, and put on felt soles. You could make the slippers-of red flannel, and there is an old hat in the attic we can cut soles from." "( That will be splendid," said Hagar; '" and I mean to embroider Aunt Anna a spectacle- case. I most know her, for she has sent me   Two Festivals.     189 so many things by you. I wish she could come here, or it wasn't too far for me to go up there." "But so many long stairs," suggested Naomi. "Of -course I can't, I know. I never can go anywhere," said 'Hagar pettishy. How- ever, she soon came back to the subject of presents, and said, "Do you suppose Timothy would mind if Hgave him a pair of woollen tlhings to wear on his wrists?" "I'm sure he would like them very much," said Naomi. "Then I mean to make them as pretty as I please," said Hagar: " they shall be red and green in stripes. I do wish you'd hurry: up, Naomi, so I can go out. I don't go once in an age." Here Judith came in, arid dropped herself into a rocking-chair Naomi had just dusted. Her mother followed her.   190   Our Clhatham-Street Uncle. A' Naomi is going to take me out, mother," said Hagar. "Father gave me some money to spend." "That was a great waste : what does such a child want of money?" said Judith: "you had better lend it to me." "Yes: or I'll take care of it for you," sug- gested our uncle's wife, picking her teeth, and tucking a stray wisp of hair up under her gay cap. No, no:- I'm  going shopping!" cried Hagar. "Go long, then, and be quiet," said her mother, putting the child's feet aside, so she could herself occupy the end of thie sofa. '"How much is it?" demanlded Judith. "I shan't tell you!" returned Hagar un- graciously. "Mother, I wouldn't let her go off, and spend nobody knows how much," remonstrated Judith.   Two Festivals.     191 "Be still, you stingy thing!" screamed Hagar: "won't I be glad when you are married to Abraham, and gone to live over the street!" At this sally, our uncle's wife laughed, and Judith was somewhat mollified. Naomi start- ed to get Hagar's- wrappings; but, being directed to " clear up"Judith's room, and bring two dresses for her aunt to rip up: was detained sometime. However, at last she had put on Hagar her best blue dress, a long thick cloak, a red hood bound with furl la tippet and muff to- match; and, with her two dollars in I the purse that had been pawned, Hagar was ready to go out. Rose and Daniel were sum- moned to carry her down stairs, and - through the shop, as she chose to go out that way. Naomi had ready a child's three-wheeled car- riage, which was Hagar's own undeniable property; and a hot brick being put for her feet, and an Afghan of Naomi's knittin?:   192   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. drawn over her knees, with Naomi behind to push her coach, Hagar was ready to start. "Where will you go?" asked Naomi. "Let's go in Grand Street: we see the Bowery so much, you know. Oh! be so care- ful, Naomi, and  get a policeman to take us over all the crossings: don't go fast." Hagar very seldom got out. She needed to be car- ried down and up the long first- flight of stairs in the house, was terribly nervous about being upset, and afraid at all the street-crossings, and, besides, was too heavy for Naomi to push very far; and to no one else would she trust herself. Into Grand Street they went. The crowds of people; the windows full of all kinds of wares; the boxes laden with samples on the walk; the doorways hung with kerchiefs, scarfs, and trifles of all kinds; the street-stalls ; the sight of stray organ-grinders or tambourine girls, - Ag I Iformed a cheerful episode in Hagar's quiet life.   I  i j[ ', , -t    I'  r---J/'           '  A .  i:i I . ':;L! {               I = n A:   : 1    9:' i.- , ,71,1t" ..... A     =-' ' -% NTO GRAN STREET  H  EY     WENT."--Pagex= 92. , ' i.             r ,-L INTO GRAND STREET THEY WENT."-Page l92. oi   3i          ^ ' :@' -a s v    Two Festivals.     193 Then how delightful it was to buy red, green, and purple worsted; a wlhole bunch of black yarn ; scarlet flannel; silk to embroider the spectacle-case; a bit of black velvet for the same! Then how perfectly enchanting to call out a black-eyed, curly-headed little Jew- clerk, bid Naomi '" look the other way, and not hear," and thea send said clerk in to do up a tiny album, filled with small fancy pictures, "nice, every one of them," she ordered! And then Naomi must still look into a" window, where there was notling more attractive than any amount of hosiery. While Hagar exam- ined her little purchase, rejected two or three pictures as being what "Naomi would not like," and at last the album was duly tucked in her muff, and Naomi was released from durance vile at the window, and suffered to wheel the car- riage again. "I've got twenty cents left," said Hagar; " and I'm going to treat you, Naomi. We'll stop at one stand and try roast chestnuts, 13   194   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. and then- at another and get rock-candy." So Hagar had her Qwn way about "treating," and went home rejoicing; being so tired, how- ever, that she lay on the sofa all the afternpon, while Naomi sewed on her aunt's dresses. The 'approach of Christmas brought many more customers to the shop.  Mr. Waters came, looking rather desperate, and wanted to pawn his tools. "We've always had our Christmas dinner," he said doggedly," and we shall yet. What use are engravers' tools to a porter?" He had ceased to adopt subterfuges before the clear-eyed Naomi. "You may want them yet," said Naomi. "The less you take on them, the easier to get them out;" and she ventured to ask, "Does your wife know it?"        * "No," said James: " what's the use of telling her? She would get discouraged, and be sick again : it all c omes from' my uncle,' you know." He laughed a bitter laugh.   Two Festivals.      195 Naomi felt that this was a poor policy, and wished that Mrs. Waters had been able to dis- play a little more strength of mind, that she might have been a helper' to her husband in his day of need; but she went with the tool- case to her uncle, and returned, offering four dollars on it, which James took despondingly. The pawner of flat-irons also appeared with a parcel,--a dress of thin material, a child's hat, a small looking-glass, and a travelling- bag; the last, though Naomi did not guess it, being the property of a person whom she served, and in it she brought and carried back the clothes. She put it in pawn, expecting to redeem it before it came time to take back the wash. '; Tule clhilder must have their Christmas meat and pudding," she said to Naomi. ;"This dollar will get but, a small dinner, I think," said Naomi. "Oh! poor folks can't pick and choose.  ,i   196   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. I'll get a boiling-bit out of the neck for a quarter; and sugar and plums and milk and molasses will take the rest up; and somehow I'll redeem the bundle before spring. She went off with a debonair look and gait that expressed, more than her words, that she was taking this world easy as far as she could. "She dosh not care," said our uncle, catch- ing Naomi's e e: " she never vash vorth ten tollar, and she dosh never expects to be. Gen- tiles ish not thrifty like Jews, Naomi. I am glad te rabbi ish going to keeps tern out of te holy city:. put vere vill Naomi be? Te rabbi vill not let mein girl in, because she dosh not go to synagogue." To Naomi's distress, many street-sweepers, boot-blacks, news-boys, gutter-snipes, and oth- ers of that gentry whom the genial holiday- time had impelled somebody to furnish withll good coats, hats, shawls, or shoes, came flock- ing in, and pawned the newly-gained gar-   Two Festivals.     197 ments, that they might have wherewithal to go to the theatre, to get chicken and oysters, or, worse yet, " to have a jolly lark, and buy whiskey and tobacco." And so the days passed: standing in the shop, speaking a good word or giving occa- sionally acted-upon advice, or a little care- fully-bestowed aid to the comers thither; up stairs quietly fulfilling the behests of her aunt and Judith, and entertaining Hagar; and at evening doing the work she had taken from Ewings's grand store, or making up her own little gifts. And so Christmas morning came; and Naomi found on her pillow the album   from  Hagar, and exchalnged good wishes with the child, and gave her a trans- parent slate, and a magnetic duck and fish from Aunt Anna and Timothy. And break- fast passed over quietly, as nobody remem- bered what day it was but these two girls; and then Naomi was off for her holiday. Slhe   198   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. went to Timothy's shop, and gave him the scarf and wristlets, and then they both went to see Mrs. Roberts; Timothy carrying a basket, containing a little shawl from Naomi, and the hood and slippers made by Hfagar, and meat and rice for a dinner given by him- self. "Well, bless the Lord! how he brings good out of evil!" cried Mrs. Roberts: "ssuch a dear child as you coming smiling in on one, and all these nice presents, just from failing of my wages, and going to pawn my bonnet. Won't I be chipper in this hood and shawl, my dear! and bless you, how warm the old man's feet will keep in these slippers!" ("And how is your husband to-day?" asked Naomi. "Oh! he's lively, my dear: ever since the snow began to fall, and he could see it on the roofs, he's been a boy again, going coasting. Dear, dear! lwhen tliis wandering first came on   .  .   .   Two Festivals.     199 him, it made me heart-sick. But now I take it as one of the Lord's kind ways to give him comfort out of his life; for hemnever comes to himself to fret like: only you can call liim up by talking religion, and of sermons, land the * dear Lord; and then he slips away again." So saying, Mrs. Roberts stooped, and put the quilted shoes on her husband's feet. "Oh, I see you!" he said, looking knowingly at Naomi: "I see you taking out them slippers from your basket.  There ain't mucll but what I see; and the Lord he sees you too, and he'll pay you. I see the meat and the little paper: there's things to eat, and they come good to, us. Old lady she works for us both; but she can't earn like as I earnt when I worked for her." "Hear that, now!" sid Mrs, Roberts: "sometimes he wakes up amazing over some of the Lord's goodness; but it is never to be: dull and sad,-:the old man's As brisk as a bee."   200   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Good-by, Timothy," said Naomi, as the old man left her on the corner of Spring Street. "Come up early to dinner, and see how Aunt Anlna looks in her new cap." a In effect, Aunt Anna was soon arrayed in Naomi's; and Naomi, having received a pair of fur cuffs which she knew it had cost Aunt Anna much careful economy to buy, took time to run over to see Mrs. Waters. "James is in the store, this morning," said Mrs. Waters: " they are so0close there, they will only give half a day; bul I am getting dinner ready. And do you know, Naomi, I have knit three pairs of socks and two sacques; and this afternoon I am going to slip out, and take them to Ewings's, and get paid. But don't say a word, Naomi; for James don't know any thing about it." "Why do you not tell him, and have him go there with you?" said Naomi, anxi usly. "Oh! it would make him feel badly, I know.   Two Festivals.     201 I want to get some money ahead first; then I'll tell him.  If I tell him' now, he will worry for fear I'll make myself sick, or something like that." Naomi felt that, she had no right to say any thing' more; though she realized how mis- guided these two young people were, who did not fully confide in each other, and bravely face their position. Shle returned to Aulnt Anna, while Mrs. Waters baked a chicken and made a pudding, bought with money James had vaguely said he had gotten from   his 't uncle." The day had ended at last, as all bright days must end. Timothy, according to cus- tom, saw Naomi home. Between Aunt Aiina and' her old half-brother, Naomi had never known the lack of father and mother; and that night, as her sturdy old companion plodded along by her side, and she thought how carefully Aunt Anna had tied her hood   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. and pinned on her shawl, bidding her wamn her feet when she got home, Naomi inwardly thanked God, who had so shielded her or- llaned infancy and girlhood. Her thoughts, by force of contrast,'wandered off to Jane Craig's lonely grave. . I can't help thinking of Jane to-night," she said. " How easily I might have been left to be as desperate as she was, With no father nor mother to take care of me!  But what friends God has raised up for me !" "The love of dress and flattery, and what folks call places of amusement, are shoals that wreck many a girl. There was poor Jane, no young girl, to be sure, but quite as foolish as one, seeing her mind wasn't ballasted with religion,--to gratify her tastes she turned thief, --for it was nothing better, - and then, in despair', at being found out, killed herself. Sh9 was as reckless as a Chinese. I hear they. are wondrous ready to kill themselves.   /   Two Festivals.   203   But it is no wonder folks set no higher value on life, when they can't see it is for any higher end than serving themselves.  And I think again, Naomi, what a guilt is to be laid at the door of many a mistress, who never heeds what temptations she puts in a girl's way; never gives her any advice; never takes any interest in her more than to see that she does the work she's paid for doing! The girl may run about at night, and have any kind of company, and the mistress gives no heed. Dear, dear! pity they don't know they are their brothers' keepers, or their girls' keepers all the same." "Timothy," said Naomi, drawing closer, to him," do you know that man looking in that window ?" "No, and don't want to," said Timothy, sharply. "He came to the shop one evening. He doesn't look poor, does he ? but he pawned a whole bundle of things behind the screen. He didn't come near my counter."    204   Our Chatzam-Street Uncle. "Humph!" grunted Timothy. "It was the only evening I ever staid in the shop; and I will not stay there another," continued Naomi." "So, I wouldn't," said Timothy; but, after Rose had let Naomi in at her uncle's, Timothy shook his head at the "Three Golden Balls," and at the legend "SOLOMON MOSES SIMPSON" on the sign-board, and said, - "Oh, you old sinner! you buy of men who train bits of children to pick pockets, do you? I believe in my heart you do. OIf I was sure of it, your sign would come down presently. I couldn't go that." Up stairs ran Naomi, her pale cheeks pink from the frosty air; her eyes yet dancing from her happy day, as if they reflected all the lights that had gleamed on the Christmas- tree. "Did you get presents?" cried Hagar. Naomi held out her cuffs and a pair of gloves for Hagar's approval.   Two Festivals.     205 / "Bah!" said Jtudith: "been keeping: the. Christian's day." "Why not?." said Naomi firmly. "I am a Christian too." "I'd be ashamed to own it, then," said Judith. "See how the Christians deny the seventh day, which God made holy! Is not creating the world a thing worth our remem- bering?" "Yes: but redeeming it was greater still," said Naomi. "And then what creatures your Christians are. There are the Catholics, who say 'they are the best of all; and look how they burned thousands of Jews in Spain, just because we would not bow down and serve their images lile they do! and break the second commandment like you all do the  fourth," went on Judith. But lest any one should suspect Judith of being a good scholar, or conversant with history, it -may be well to  \'    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. state that she was repeating what she had heard the rabbi say only a day or two before. She had now said all she could recall; and, besides, her attention was distracted by no- ticing Naomi's gloves; and the embroidery upon the back especially pleased her fancy. "0 Naomi! " she said, "how I like your gloves! Change with me, won't you?  You will like mine just as well." "But thpese were a present," said Naomi. "Never mind that: mine are a prettier color, and I daresay they are finer. Give me - those, and I will get you mine to-morrow." "Pooh!" cried Hagar: "Naomi's gloves won't begin to fit you Judith'; and your's would look like bags on her: keep your own.' "I dare say," said Naomi," that you can easily find a pair just like these, Judith." "( Very likely, and twenty times better ; but I ain't to spend any moie money on gloves this winter."'   I   "if it is only the embroidery you want them for, I will work those you have just like them. Maybe you would choose some other color." "Yes," said Judith: "orange color in these would match my hat-strings better; and, if you think you can work mine just as nice as that, you can do it to-morrow, and -you need not give me yours, Naomi."  The Jews celebrate their New Year in' the autumn; the date varying from   the early 'part of September, to the second week in October, as they calculate by lunar months. The more devout Jews hold in remembrance the purification of the Temple, once called the " Feast of Lights."  Our uncle submitted to the celebration of all these feasts. He had some feeble clinging fo the faith and habits of childhood and fatherland; he was a very little influenced by what other Jews might say; he liked to do things differently from Our Chatham-Street Uncle.  the Gentiles. Besides, these festal occasions did not incommode him. The shop went on all the same. Our uncle would have deemed it sacrilege - the only sacrilege he was capable of appreciating - to check the cur- rent of business 'that flowed through the doorway under the "Three Golden Balls." "Te vimin can light te house up," he said. "Ve vill let te Gentiles know ve ish alives, Vat dosh te vimit care vor but to spend te monisl ash I piles it up. Let te vimiin keep te feasts; and ven te holy city ish restore, ve vill know all te vays of to place, ant pe good Heprews; ant here ish ein son of Abra- ham ash vill go in mit von goot piles mlonish; eh, Naomi!"  As to the fasts he was not so clear. " Vy shall I fast ?" he cried: " can I do mein pis- ness on von empty stomach ? Can I pile up mein monish ven I am hungry! Tere ish enough of hungry folks in    mein shops,   Two FestiVals.       :209:   :  mitout dese   Heprew  peing   starvedh,t      -: Naomi?"                        .  When, therefore, an unusual fit of vigilance  on the part of the sorely exercised rabbi  had brought about the due observance of the  appointed fast, and Judith and her mother : consoled themselves for the absence of tlei-rI:: .-  usual meals by dressing gorgeously and tgo- :X:::: ing to synagogue, our reprobate uncle wouidr-: -- call for his chops and    coffee, and  cr:y,;: "Naomi ist eili gut girl: isl on te fenc of  safety mein chilt; ish ein Jew, ant. keep to  * e feast ande fasts; ant ist ein Christian, and    c : keeps te, fasts ant te feasts. Vast vor dein  : uncle, mein girl: hast few sins of dein own, t ancan vast vor meii. Vast gut, Naomi, ant  touches nothing; mint girl ist vasting or two, ant ein istidein vicket olt uncle."  Chuckliig much over all this wit, he would dispose of three hearty meals, ald, at night, pinchlig lis niece's ear, would say,--   210   Our Chzatham-Street Uncle. "I feels potter, Naomi. Dein fast hast done me gut: mein sills are light ast ein feather, mein chilt; and te piles monish dosli grow; eh, Naomi." " You know very well, uncle," replied Na- ?omi, " that I can do neither your fasting nor praying." "I don't see why," said Judith, with whose,. temperament fast-days did not agree, "you '" keep our feasts or fasts at all; you have your- own, as you claim to be a Christian. You're, % a renegade Jew, that's what you are." , "I'm sure," replied Naomi calmly,- "ei ; I have mercies enough to keep feasts of than^ s  fulness for, and/I have also sins enough ovet?-]:: : which I can fast alicpray."  "It won't do you any good," snapped Judith: " you'll never get to the holy city. For one thing, you don't know a word of Hebrew, and that's what they'll all speak." "How much Hebrew do you know, Judith?" asked Hagar.   Two Festivals.     21 "Why, as much as I ever did: don't we a learn it in our schools? Here, give me tlih  . book: I can read you any page." Hagar handed her sister a little book i Hebrew; and Judith red a few sentencel then threw the book back again, saying "There, now!" "Pooh!" said Hagar: "I can read thla - much too." ( -   ( "You ought to: didn't you go to Hebrew school?" said Judithh. I "Naomi," said Hagar, when they went up stairs, " do you believe that Hebrew was what God talked to Adam and Eve in Eden?  The rabbi says so." "I'm sure I don't know," replied, Naomi,: "it is la very old language, 'and the one the Bible was written in." "And," persisted Hagar, " do you suppose -it is the language  they will all speak in Heaven,-or Jerusalem restored?" said Hagar, I1 '.   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. whose confession of faith field articles gath- ered fronm both the rabbi and Naomi. Of course Naomi replied that she did not know. ' Some of the Jews are keeping the ' Feast of Lights,"' said Hagar.    " Mother isn't going to: she says it takes too many candles to illuminate; and Judith says it's only very pious ones that keep it any more." " Yes," said Naomi: "they observe it by prayer, though they used to illuminate their houses and synagogues, and have a feast, cele- brating it for eight days." "I don't know as I understand what it is all about," said Hagar. " It is to celebrate the time when the Tem- ple at Jerusalem was purified, after Antiochus Epiphanes polluted it by setting up the Ro- man standards in it, and offering swine upon the altar of sacrifice," replied Naomi. The Feast of Purim comes with the last days   I   of February or the first of March; all the Jewish Feasts being movable.- This is gener- ally celebrated by the Jews, and our Chat- ham-street uncle kept it as well as the rest. When, on the first day of the celebration,. Mrs. Simpson and her daughter had gone to the synagogue, Naomi .and Hagar being left at home, Naomi said, " Come, Hagar, we will read all about this feast," 'Yes," said Iagar: " it means lots, because they cast lots before that horrible old Persian Haman, to find a day to kill all the Jews. Arn't you glad they didn't?" "Yes," said Naomi: "it was a wonderful salvation for the Jews, and shows us how God hears and answers prayer, and is greater than the most powerful man, and holds the hearts of kings in his hanss." "And some of the Jews call this Mordecai's day, on account of Esther's uncle. Don't you think Mordecai was ever such a nice old man,    214   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Naomi? I wonder if we shall see him up in the sky!-" "I hope so," said Naomi; " and now, if you are ready, Hagar, 'll read the Book of Esther to you." Hagar drew her feet up comfortably on the sofa, and prepared to Jisten to her cousin, who sat in a low rocker near her, the Bible on her knee. It was a pleasant scene. Naomi hIad made the room tidy: herself and Hagar were svery types of neatness. The fire glowed in the open stove; Hagar's bird dozed in his cage. Naomi read well,- a rare accomplish- ment,- and Hlagar entered into the story with all her soul. "Dear, how glad I am   old Haman got hung!"' she cried. "I do feel a little sorry about his ten sons ;, but I suppose they were grown up men, and as bad as their father. Don't you suppose his wife felt pretty bad?" "Then, when Naomi had read a little fur- ther, Hagar said,-             . i,    Two Festivals.     215 "Yes, the fourteenth and fifteenth of Adar; * that's now, you know: we keep it yet. How many  years have we been  keeping it, Naomi?"' "-About two- thousand three hundred and seventy, -a little more than -that." "My, what a very old nation we are!" said Hagar, with a little pride. i Our Purim didn't come just this tihpe last year, did it, Naomi: you  remember how  it rained? That's on account of taking time by the moon; and the moon, Naomi, is so very unreliable. It seems funny to think of those Jews in Shushari and Babylon and Jerusalem, all keeping this feast just as .we do. Having company, and sending presents, and all' that. You know to-night we are going to have company to a big supper, and to-morrow night Abraham will have one. MHe is coming here, and our folks are going :there, -all but us two, Naomi: we always have to stay home." -'  -    f   216   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "We have nice times by ourselves, I am sure," said Naomi. Here Daniel came rushing up-stairs two steps at time, and, flinging in a parcel, cried, "Judith! from Abraham!" and dashed back again to the shop.  Naomi picked up the parcel, and laid it on the table. "I wonder what it is!"   said Hagar curiously. ," She will be home before long, and let us see," replied Naomi. I - wish we could see now," said Hagar impatiently. "Of course we have no right to' meddle with her presents," said Naomi calmly, sitting down to her sewing. But here our uncle came in, and, being a man devoid of scruples, said, with two or three prodigious winks, "Ve vill see vat Apraham hash sent to Judith." "I wouldn't! '"exclaimed Naomi; but our uncle cut the- string, and. out of the parcel \c        Two Festivals.     017 fell a handsome crape shawl, heavily embroid- ered and with a rich fringe. "It ish von fine shawl," said our uncle, winking again: "it vill do for ein bride; eh, Naomi?"       , "I wonder if it was pawned at his shop!" cried Hagar.   . : as "Maype," said' our nonchalant uncle, not seeing any thing out of the way in that view of the case. "Nobody sendls us any thing!" cried Hagar fretfully, looking at Naomi. "Yell," said our uncle, " veil, it is feast- time. I must pe ein gut old man, eh? Ach,  ell!" and his hand sought his carefully- buttoned pocket. "Heir ist some monishl: shall go out and shops, and let me. see some- ting fine on mein chiltren in te evening." "Oh, good!" cried Hagar: "let's go out this afternoon, Naomi, and have fun." Our uncle wenf down to his shop, and   218   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Naomi was trying to fold the shawl when her aunt and cousin came in. "' What is all this!" cried Judith. "It is a present to you from Abraham. I was trying to fold it," said Naomi. "1 wish you'd let my things alone: how dare you touch it!" pried Judith, pulling off cloak and gloves to try on the new shawl. "C Father opened it: Naomi told him not," said Hagar. "Oh!" said Judith, already mollified by the elegance of her buff shawl, and drawing it up about her ample shoulders, while her mother, hat in hand, stood by admiring its effect. "From Abraham, oh!" said Mrs. Simpson ; and Hagar was just about to cry out, "I dare- ' say the old horror got- it' out of his shop," when a warning glance from Naomi kept her silent. Hagar was very happy that afternoon going shopping. She bought a blue net with blue S ,        -    Two Festivals.     219 and gilt tassels, and a collar with tiny blue velvet knots, and a handkerchief with em- broidered corners, for the evening's party. She also persuaded Naomi to buy a white net berthe, trimmed with white ruches, to wear with her black silk dress; for Naomi was to be present at the entertainment, and, like other girls, anticipated some pleasure from being dressed up, and seeing plenty of people. The joy of Hagar's excursion was augmented by stopping at Timothy's shop- door, and by meeting Mrs. Roberts on the street; and Naomi's Purim gift was not too far exhausted for her to send some apples and a sheet of gingerbread for the old man who in his easy-chair revelled in a supposititious boyhood. The girls got home just in time to drink a cup of tea, and dress for the party. We did not. know until now that our uncle had a particle of taste; but when he saw his niece -come down to the parlor before any   220   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. guests arrived, dressed in her plain black silk, with her fair face and snowy throat rising from the soft white lace of her cape, lie rushed away, and in a minute returned with a round pin delicately cut of ivory, with four pearls clustered in the centre. "Shalt have ein vite pin, mein girl: hlast netting at dein pretty neck," he said. Naomi drew back a little, as he essayed to clasp the berthe with the pin. Her undle laughed. "It vash never pawned!" he cried. "It vash pought mit mein monish, ant it vas cheap I gets it!" So Naomi wore the pin. We are not going to make our uncle out any worse than he was; so we narrate, that he was that evening visited by the same individual whose Jarge store of diverse articles ' had one night excited Naomi's astonishmenlt. The man heard the sounds of ,mirtlh from above. "Ah, you're having a party, my uncle!" he cried: "suppose I step up a while!"   Two Festivals,     221 Our uncle, with his customary carelessness about all matters outside of the, shop, was about to assent, when he bethought himself, and replied, -- "Nein, nein: ish not gut company vor mein girls: vill do vor dein vicket old uncle; but te uncle ant hish chiltren'are not von ant te same; vill go dein vay: shalt never gets varther ant mein shops." Very likely our uncle added," Eh,- Naomi?" A under his breath. So there was a party at our muncle's; and the next night one whiere Abraham's gilt balls hung out; and, after the first party, Judith and her mother went to a ball; and, after the second party, they went with Abraham to a masquerade; and, from overmuch excitement, Judith was tired and cross for'a week there- after. And this is how our uncle's family kept the Feast of Purim. t . , . .   CHAPTER    Vll. A JEWISH WEDDING. RS. WATERS was yet working , on worsted goods for the store of Messrs. Ewings, and laying up a little money for a rainy day, or to surprise her husband when she should make upher mind to tell him what she was doing.. Naomi urged her to make known her plans at once. "I shouldn't think it was a good plan to have any kind of a se- cret," she said. "It will only make him fret more than ever,' -said Mrs. Waters. "He hates portering, 222   A Yewish Wedding.     '223 and frets for engraving so he can hardly live now; and, if he knew I had felt I must work for our 'bread, he woul &fret worse vet. It is notr like you: you only work to have something to give away, your aunt told me; that is different from  working for one's bread." "No necessity that the Lord lays upon. us is disgraceful," said Naomi firmly. The two were going together to take home their work-:  they usually went to and from   the store together. "'He's got some uncle who has dope a little for him since we cameL here," said Mrs. Wa- ters.. "I think it is queer that James had never mentioned him to me before.; and I wish he would do something more worth while, than to- send a little money now and then." "Oh!" thought Naomi to herself, " what a pity that you two, joined together for better   *     ^ -   224   Our Cheatham-Street Uncle. Xi;'i.: or worse, don't trust each other a little more! What a pity that yon do not know who that uncle really is, and how the. money came! Still she dared not say ally thing, and they walked on ill silence. She reflected how she had one day seen Mr. Waters lingering at the door of temptation.. What would this weak, fond, almost helpless young woman do, if her husband became a drunkard?   A sudden thought opened Naomi's lips. "Mrs. Waters, as your husband has no one where he works with whom he cares to associatef why don't you walk,with him to and from his work. It would do you good, and cheer him up." "It would take so much time," said Ellen Waters. "Your time could not be better spent."  And make me so tired " - "( You would get used to the walk, and not mind it." "There is no need of it," said Mrs. Waters.            .   A Seewish Wedding.    225 "There may be more than you think.' If your husband is brooding and unhappy, you ought to keep with him and cheer him. Sup- pose he got a brain-fever, and died in a few days "- "Oh, mercy! do you think there is danger of that?" cried Mrs. Waters aghast. "There is no knowing what there is danger of. I'd go with him in the morning, and meet him at night; and I'd put him up a nice little dinner to eat at noon, whether he wants it or not." - Yes: but every thing nice costs more than we can pay." "You have no idea," said Naomi, "how many ways of making nice and cheap things Aunt A'nna has: if I were you, I'd go and talk it all over with her; see if she ,cannot show you how to save money, and be comforta- ble too. You don't know what a wise Aunt- Anna she is." 16          i r   , 226   Our Chatham-Street-Uncle. "And what a wise girl youl are!" cried Mrs. Waters. "I'll take your advice: I think it was you that first gave me courage to get well." Naomi went up to see Aunt Anna one pleas- ant afternoon. The spring seemed fairly inaugurated: all things spoke of new life alid cheer. "Naomi," said Aunt Anna, " our minister was here the other day, and wants you to come and see him. He cannot very well go to your uncle's: he thinks it would be pleasant6r if you went to see him instead. It is not far from here, and you must go sometime. He and his wife are both your good friends." "I know they are, and I ought to go. I want to talk to him about my Sunday-school class, and about Hagar, and lots- of other things. I meant to stay here with you this afternoon; but I believe I'll go up there.". "Perhaps you had better," said Aunt Anna.   A yewish Wedding.     227 Naomi was soon at her pastor's door, and ushered into his study. She had been there but a few moments, when a lady came in with several thick little blocks in her hands, and, throwing them impatiently on the table, cried out to the worthy divine," Just look there! Did you ever see such stiff, hideous things in your life? after all I said about it! That mall will .drive me to a lunatic asylum, unless lie does better. See that girl's ear and mouth as big as her whole face!" and she put a little white finger contemptuously on one of the blocks. "They are ugly, sure enough," said the gentleman, bending over the blocks. "I want some grace and freedom," said the lady, putting another block under the fire of her indignation. , "See that! If I could find a new hand entirely, whom nobody had ever heard of, I'd  have the pictures got up under my own super- a}   228   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. vision. I'll fling these in the fire;," and shelo swept the blocks into a jaunty little apron she wore, and went out of the study, apparently having never seen Naomi at all-. "That is my sister!" said the pastor laugh- ing. "She has been getting up a book, and is in a great strait because the pictures do not suit her.' Naomi. thought of James Waters, but knew not how to mention hm, as art and engravers were subjects on which she could have no opinion. However, she resolved not to let her own backwardness stand in anybod y's light; so, before leaving, she related what she knew of Mr. Waters and his wife, telling the whole story, the matter of the pawns and, all, as she knew the confidence would not be betrayed. The good pastor was much interested. He left the room, and conferred with his sister. Returning, he said, "Naomi, give that young man my card, and ask him to come up here.   A Sewishz Wedding.     229 You may mention the matter of our wanting pictures." Naomi, therefore, went to Mrs. Waters on her way home. James had come in from his work, and was sitting by the window with a book Aunt Anna had got for him. In these dreary times, we may feel pretty sure that James Waters would have made woful shipwreck had it not been for Aunt Anna.          r Aunt Anna had cheered him in his darkest hours, had nursed his wife, had taught them how to make their narrow means supply their necessities, had persuaded them  to go with her to church, to prayer-meeting, and to a few: free lectures on general subjects, attending which, had turned their attentioil from thelm- Selves, and brought to them the feeling of the old-time respectability.  She had also found ways of getting for James -the books he craved, and thus making his evenings endurable.   230   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Naomi briefly informed James of the pic- tures that a lady wished designed and en- graved, and that, by going to the address she gave him, he might secure familiar and well- paid work. , Ellen clapped her hands at the suggestion. '"O James, go to-night!' she cried: "you will get engraving to do, and need not be a porter ally more!" James seemed quite indifferent; but, offer- ing to see Naomi to the street, his indignation burst forth on the lowest landing, and he cried, "What did you mention it for, and be- fore Ellen too. I never can be anybody again! How can I work without my tools? and you know they are at the shop; and I have not a cent to take them out with, let alone four dollars. Then, in a softer toile, he added, "There's no use ,in trying to save a scuttled ship. Never try to help me more. I'm doomed ever since I came to this city.   /i ewzs/i lveaazeg. dZi I've been deceived by everybody, and found no end of enemnies." "None so bad an enemy as yourself," said Naomi. "The best way for you to do is to go up stairs, and tell the whole story of your pawns to your wife. Maybe she can help you out of your trouble." "I can't tell her," said James, "jist as she's got well, and you've se-t her to hoping: she'll cry herself sick again." I "No: she will give you money to help you. I have a mind to go up and tell her myself."                 f V "No, no: don't.  She hasn't a penny: there's no use of ' putting on' to you: we're poor as poverty." "She his money: will you go ask her?" "Yes : but I know she hasn't any," said James desperately. Naomi went home, and James returned moodily up stairs.   ,   232   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Have you any money?" he asked his wife. Ellen hesitated: she wanted to get- ten dollars before she made her ways known. "I know you haven't of course," said James sighing. Ellen thought he might want to buy pen- cils, or something else for the new work; so she said presently, throwing a little wallet at him, "Yes, James: I've got five dollars. I 'earned it crocheting. You can have it. Now get out your tools, and see that they're all right; and, after supper, go and see if you can get those pictures to make: just think, James, -designw and engrave too!"  Instead of getting the tools, James poured forth his story of the pawnbroker's shbp, and promised to redeem the tools at once, and "never do so again ;" while his wife related her knitting and crocheting exploits, and both took courage to work together for better times.   , A J7ewish Wedding.    233 In short, James went to lthe minister's, and succeeded in, convincing the lady that there was a possibility he might get up a set of pictures that would suit her: at any rate, he was to make the trial. It was during these lovely spring days, that Timothy proposed to Naomi to go and see Mrs. Roberts. "The old man is failing," he said: "I sat up with him last night; and I would not wonder if lie did not live till morning. Very likely it will comfort the old lady to have you go there." "Why, how do they get on if he is sick: she cannot work," said Naomi. "It has only been a few days," said Tim- othy. "I dropped in a few minutes ago to- see how they came on; and he had not sat up that day,  He just lies quiet and sleepy all the time. She sits by him, and knits and- watches him; feeds him beef-tea, and keeps his , f-, *.    234   Our Chlatlham-Street Uncle. feet warm. It is all that can be done; and most likely he'll go off easy asp a sleeping baby." "I know you've been helping them," said Naomi. "Well, a bit, to be sure," admitted Tim- othy: "why not? I have neither chick nor child looking to me. Sister Anna sent them something too; and, if you want a hand in it, my girl, you may get something for the old lady, and a mouthful of calves'-foot jelly for the old man." Naomi found the old man lying as Timothy had described; while his wife, with busy fingers and a sorrowful face, sat watching his every breath. "People think he's a burden to me,- and I won't miss him," she said; "but they don't know about it. If the old man goes, what is there for me to live for? This forty year we've been together; and to me there's no-   A Jewish Wedding.     235 body in the world like the old man. We've had trouble with our children: we've lost 'emr one by one. It was along of trying to get one of our boys cured, that we came to New York. Our girl, all the girl we ever had, was likely enough, and spry and well, till she dropped off so sudden. Who else but the old man remembers all our old friends, and the times when I was young, and cares for thoughts of the children? Yes, dear: they tell me he'll go soon. Well, it's hard on me; but, praise the Lord! he's going first, and not to be left helpless like he is, to go to the poorhouse and hospital, and be nursed by strangers. I'll go some day after him. Hope the Lord will keep me patient, dear, that I won't fret too much over losing the old man." "Yes: you must make up your mind to let him go pretty soon now," said, Timothy, letting fall the sleeper's nerveless hand. "His pulse is most gone. Give him a spoonful of wine."   * 236  Our Chatham-Street Uncle. The old lady administered the wine, and then sat at the head of the bed, stroking her husband's gray hair with.-her wrinkled hand. Naomi took the old lady's vacant chair and abandoned work, qnd mechanically went to knitting. Mrs. Roberts looked at her with tears in her faded eyes," 'Pears, dear, like as I could never-take another stitch if I haven't the old man left to work for. These five years I've been working away, thinking I was keeping him a home, and making it comfort- able for him, and he sitting there wander- ing off to old times: why, dear, it pretty nigh made me young sometimes,- brought up old pleasant things and people. Yes, yes, dear: the old man minded me of the past; lie does now. I can see the old home, and my father and mother dying: ah, yes, dear!" The old man slowly opened his eyes. "Well, old friend," said Timothy, u' you've most got home." ,               IY   A Yewish Wedding.   '  237 - Home!" the old man, who had lain speechless for three days, uttered the word loud and clear,-"I Home,- the snow's deep and the boys are all going sledding. Where's mother?"  "Dear knows!" said the old lady, tears runninga over her withered cheeks: "she's been in glory these thirty years." "Old friend!" cried Timothy, leaning over the bed: "you're most home; but it's the home iwhere Jesus is; do you know that home?" "Ay,l ay!" said the old man   clearly. "Jesus! why, he's the Door: he died for the like of us. Yes, sir: I know him, because " --and his voice rose triumphantly-"he first knew me." That holy name had been the master-key to unlock his sealed senses: ' Where's the old lady?"  "Here I am," sobbed'the aged wife, lean- ing into view.   238   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "That's right. I'm going now to Jesus: you heard what you said to me. Our old folks is there, and our boys, and our girl,- you mind? I'll wait for you, Mary." He lay looking curiously about, as a last look on thngs he should never see again. To Timothy it seemed as if the soul so near glory was peering 'amazed at the barren and pitiful surroundings that had cherished it so long. His gaze fell on Naomi. "That ain't our girl," he said wistfully. "No," said  Timothy: "your girl's in heaven. This one comes to see you some- times." "Ay, ay! brings things in her basket. I mind: I see her do it."  He held out his hand uncertainly. Naomi rose, and stood near him. "The old lady," he said, " she's *got no girl Iow: she's all alon , you know." got no girl now: she's all alone you know." His voice sunk suddenly to a whisper, - "Old lady;;" and, ere she could answer, he was gone, I .                     ,.'    A4 Jewish Wedding.    239 in one swift moment far away beyond -all earthly sight or speech. They buried the old man next day; Naomi and Timothy going with the widow to the grave. A day or two afterwards, Timothy hired for Mrs.. Roberts a room just above Aunt Annals, and moved her few possessions thither. It was a better place for her than  miserable Pell Street, and Aunt Anna was good company for the mourner. She could see Naomi every Sunday; and weak, kind little Mrs. Waters had learned that it is good to weep with those who weep, and, alas! felt it good to have somebody whom she could patronize. So she went often to see our old lady, whom she liked to tell what " splendid" pictures James was making. James dared not give up his hated place at the store yet; but his. mind had-gone back to his art with a vigorous bound, and he was astonishing him- self by his picture-making, and securing firm   240   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. and able friends in the pastor and his sister. James spoke less of going to ruin now, and less of the deceitfulness and chicanery of all creation. -A little encouragement was doing him a- world of good ; but we think, if Aunt Anna had not stood firmly by him during his dark hours, he would have been swept down, to destruction before the encouragement came. May the Lord help us to be mindful of the stranger within our gates! Naomi had been absent from her uncle's one afternoon; and when she got lhome,--it was one of the fairest of June days, and she had taken tea at Aunt Anna's, - Hagar was wait- ing impatiently to go to their seat in the front- room wind6w. This eyrie was daily dusted by Naomi; and had, since warm weather arrived, been again, the chosen,resort of Hagar and Naomi. Naomi threw up the window, and put Hagar in her place, then stood gazing on the bustling streets.   A yewish Wedding.     241 ' What a steady stream goes into Abra- ham's!" she said; '" and I suppose it is just so here." "Oh, sit down!" cried Hagar: "I'm fairly dying to tell you something. Judith is going to be married to Abraham. Mothler'll tell you to-morrow: and won't you hlave to fuss and sew this hot weather? It is too bad! but I knlow you'll be glad when Judith's gone: I will; and mother and Judith will be good- natured now right straight along until the wedding's over. How can Judith marry hor- rid- old Abraham!" "I wouldn't say  that any more," said Naomi; " since she is going to marry him, she won't want oto hear it." This was very good advice; but Hagar was not ready to profit by it. Hagar was one of the weak things of this world; but she had her own little sting, which was teasing, and she was ready at times to use it. 16   242   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Judith had always thought Hagar rather in her way, and, iln common with her mother, had chosen to be mortified at the child's affliction; while she had never ill any way endeavored to gain Hagar's love. She was yet vexed at the preference shown for Naomi. Judith despised Hagar's reading, rebuked her weird, fanciful .talk, ridiculed her amuse- ments, and, in fine, was not willing that the child should have any thing, or be anybody. Mrs. Simpson was never positively unkind to any one. She was, at worst, merely lazy and. exacting; and, considering her younger ".daughter as undeniably an encumbrance,was satisfied with neglecting her. As we have hinted before, Hagar mnight have been ignored out of existence, died simply from overmllch " letting alone," had it not been for Naomi. The work of refurnishing and refurbishing Judith's wardrobe went briskly on. Naomi was up early to take her needle, and only left   A .e9wish Wedding.     243 it as the twilight drew on. Thanks to her taste, Judith's outfit, though over-gorgeous, would not quite set one's teeth on edge; and Judith was in fine spirits over her new acquisitions in the way of dress. With all this labor and responsibility of planning, cutting,( fittillng, trimming, and making up, Naomi might have been worn out, but for the Sulday relaxation in the quiet of church and Aunt Alnna's room, and the obedience she paid to the good'old lady's admonitions in taking some exercise about the house, and going out llOW and then with Hagar. At last Naomi, alld a young Jewess who had been called ill to llelp her, reached the grand climax of thelweddinig-dress.  This was a buff watered silk, beautifully ornamented with white bugles and blonde. The anxiety of get- ting this successfully completed was too mucl for Judithll's temper. She found that Naomi was " slow and careless," that Eagar was " in - *      ^  ^   244   Our, tithamz-Strect Uncle. the way," "made them lose things,' " mussed the work," took Naomi's attention,' was "silly " in some fanciful talk about the buff silk,  from the low life of the cocoon to the glorifi- cation of the present; and, indeed, wished the child were out of the way, she was so disa- greeable. Hagar retreated upon her established liue of defence, and rules, of warfare not untried before. She asserted that the wedding-dress was a ' hateful yellow ; " thlt Judith was "too big " to wear yellow ; that the trimming looked "ridiculous." Next she attacked the char- acter and appearance of the bridegroom elect: he was old, he was ugly, he was greedy, he only wanted Judith to save the expense of a clerk. She imitated Abraham's voice, his manners, his decidedly foreign accents, and un-' pleasantly suggested his bald head- and white beard. Thus all day, despite the peevish re- monstrance *of our uncle's wife, and the   A yewish Wedding.     245 warning glances Naomi directed at Hagcar, a runningofire was kept up between the rival forces of Judith and Hagar, until the smaller combatant asserted, as a grand coup-de-grdce, -. that the emerald in the ring Judith was to give was green stone, and that she knew very well that Abraham would give his bride "a stuffy paste thing, set in brass, and pawned to him for a sixpence, its time not being out for half a year to come." After this venture, Hagar was banished from  the room, and did not venture to re- turn until early and cool evening had arrived. Mrs. Simpson  and her daughter had gone to bring home the   bridal-hat, the  young dressmaker had   departed, and Naomi was alone. The lonely Hagar stole in, and, hanging Upon Naomi's chair, began to pat her cheek. Naomi, finishing one  of the yellow-silk sleeves, quietly removed the caressing hand.   246   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Donl't you love me?" said Hagar child- ishy.  "Not now: you have been so teazing," said Naomi. "Yes you do," said Hagar, kissing Naomi's neck. "Go away enow: you have been very unkind to Judith, and you must not come to me until-you are sorry." "What have I done?" fretted Hagar: "Judy is cross." '"She is your older sister, and you ought to treat her with respect," said Naomi.  "But Abraham is old," began Hagar. "What may seem so to a little girl like you may not to Judith, who is twenty years older than you are." . " But I would not marry such a horrid " "Nobody wants you to," interrupted Naomi; "and it is wrong to be calling folks horrid. You said what you know is not true about the   A Yewish PWedding.     247 dress, for Judith does look well in it; and you also said what was not true about the rings, for Abraham gives Judith hlandsome presents." "But she will go into the shop: there,. "OW." "She very likely is better pleased with, that way of life than any other. If it suits her, you have no right to meddle about it." :   L"So you think I told stories?". said Ha- gar, drawing away. "Remember, that, when people are angry and quarrelling, they most always are untruth- ful," said Naomi; and she continued, "You sav you are a Christian: a Christianl must be Christ-like. Messiah, when he was reviled, reviled-not again. Did you follow his ex- ample when you were rude, unkind, and un- truthful to Judith?" Hagar stood looking into the, stupid little back-yard, and at the dingy brick buildings closing about it. , q-/   248   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Can't I be lChristian any more?" she asked. "Nobody but yourself hinders," said Naomi. "Won't you like me any, ever again?" demanded the melancholy little voice. "I do like you; and I'll make friends whenever you are good, and -will not keep up such a turmoil with Judith." Both were silent until Judith came back with the bonnet,- an affair of white lace and flowers, that seemed to liave neither iup, nor down, back nor front, beginning, middle, nor end. "Put it on, and let us seeit," said Naolni. "It looks splendid!" cried Hagar. "I never saw you look so nice: everybody in the synagogue will think so;" and Judith did certainly look very well. Then, as Judith looked quite pleased at the general admiration of the new bonnet, Hagar limped slowly over to Naomi, and stole an approving kiss. '   A Yewish Wedding.     249 Hagar was to go to the marriage at the synagogue; and that, and her new white dress and pink ribbons, filled her with delight. Judith, with her stiff silk dress, her new bonnet, and the famous crape shawl, took up a whole hack, except the corner occupied by a little black-haired Jewess, who, inl flaming scarlet, acted as bridesmaid. Outr uncle, his wife, Hagar, and Naomi occupied a second hack, and were presently at the synagogue, filled with the friends of all the parties. Our short, thick uncle, begrudging every instant of absence from his shop, led Judith out from the women's side of the house, and placed her before the rabbi. 'Abraham, well- decked with studs and gold buttons, chains and fancy pins, came from the other side of the synagogue, with his " friend,'s or grooms- i man, behind him, anjd took his place by Judith. Our rabbi was a  very reverend, earnest, sol- emn  rabbi. He made a  long speech to the   - 250  Our Chathamz-Street Uncle. couple before him' about Isaac and Rebecca, and Abraham and Sara, who were models for all Jewish husbands and wives. The pair before the rabbi did not get weary of this; for did not Judith know that-all in the synagogue had a full view of her new dress and bonnet? and had not Abraham stood in a pawnbroker's shop long enougli to learn to stand still, and endure any amount of talking? After a long exllortation, alnd after a few direct questions which satisfied the rabbi that Judith and Abraham knew very well what they were about, and lhad not mistaken their own intentions, Abraham put onl Judith's finger a very handsome ring, and Judith returned this compliient by putting on one of Abraham's fingers -the emerald ring which our uncle admiringly declared- " vash vorth monish." And now everybody crowded about wlth good wishes and congratulations and compli- ments; and Abraham found room for himself   A Jewish Wedding.     251 to ride home in the hack with Judith, and the brilliant little bridesmaid went off with some- body else. And our uncle was very glad that "Te pishess vash ovet, ant lie coult get to his shops." And all the Jewish friends and rela-' tions were to go to an elaborate banquet at our uncle's, which did great credit to our uncle's wife. That was a very fine dinner indeed: there was nothing Gentile about it but Naomi, and the unlucky furniture and utensils which had been gathered from  the children of poverty or dishonesty into the shrine of the "Three Golden Balls."  When the afternoon had gone by infeasting and jest-- ing, and evening came, all the company but Naomi and Hagar l-whom   nobody thought worth inviting-adjourned with much glee to Abraham's, where there was a supper and dancing, and a great many more friends, who had not been to the dinner. Daniel the prudent ventured in the shop . i "   . '   Our Chatham-Street UCncle.  to hint to our uncle that " this thing hau cho,. pretty well;" and our uncle responded, "Vell, ve must pe put out, ant te monish must fly, ven te vimmin takes it in tore heads. Ve must piles it up vonce more, Daniel!" And this is the way in which our uncle and his family celebrated Judith's wedding.   CHAPTER   OUT OF SODOM.   HE  summer heats, the confine- ment to the house during the preparations for Judith's mar- riage, and perhaps, most of all, the dark, close, back rooms they lived in, had worn on both Naomi and, Hagar. Both were thin, pale, and heavy-eyed; and our uncle missed their cheerfulness and lively ways, and said sourly, "Vimain ant girls is great pests: vill gets marriet, or sick, or some- ting, all te time." Aunt Anna had an ancient friend, a market-   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. gardener, whom she had known in the days of her house-keeping experiences. This old man and his wife, being Aunt Anna's friends, were, of course, friends to Naomi, and now invited her to spend a few weeks at their farm. Naomi did not hesitate to request them to ex- tend their invitation to Hagar. She knew that a change was necessary to the child's comfort, and let no false bashfulness stand in her way. She said to Aunt Anna, ",Hagar can ride about there in her wagon, and sit under the trees, and enjoy herself: just to be there will be enough for me; and I will help Mrs. Dickson, so that she shall not feel that we are any trouble." So one bright afternoon early in August, Mr. Dickson's big market- wagon found its way to Chatham Street, and took the two girls and their bag of clothes, and Hagar's little cart, into the beautiful country. Those who find the largest size of Saratoga- trunks inadequate to contain their wardrobe /   for a summer's trip may fairly hold their breath when told that one big bag contained all that these two took for the month; but that is a plain statement of the case. Each wore a muslin dress, and each carried two new cali- coes packed in the smallest compass. Naomi forgot neither aprons nor colla'rs; and, indeed,  they took' all that they needed for their so- journ. It is astonishing how much less we can be comfortable with than we are apt to deem absolutely requisite. It was moonlight when they reached the low red farm-house, quiet as if asleep in the midst of the large fra- grant garden and broad fields; and, after Mrs. Dickson had welcomed them heartily, the somnolent influence of the place stole over our two cousins, and they too fell asleep. All the month. of August, Hagar .and Naomi lingered in the country, then came again, as they went, in the big market-wagon. Our uncle was glad enough to see them back,   256   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. looking well and happy. IHe shook Mr. Dick- son's halnd: "Ach, mein friend, hash take gut care vor meini girls! Vcn I can do dein pisness, comes mein vay: I shall pc most'happy to accommodate. Ven vants ally pawnproking done, heir ist Solomon Simpson vill gives ein gut pargain!" ZMr. Dickson, with a hasty nod, jumped into his huge wagon, gathlered up the reins, and drove away as if from contagion. He looked upon our uncle's friendly remarks very much as an invitation to immediate balkruptcy. Perchance those weeks ill the quiet simpli- city of the market-gardener's humble home had been to Naomi what a few breaths of fieedom have to some long-unresisting slave, or like letters from home to some wanderer careless of return, wakenling a lolnging for familiar voices and faces. However that was, Naomi was back at the sign of the "Three Golden Balls," but growing rapidly wise, yet not be-   !      ;  Out of Sodom.      257 fore it wals time. She had regarded our uncle as a part of a system where certain frauds were lega ized, as entangled in meshes of hardness a id duplicity, yet not as undertaking separate fr uds on his own account, or weav- ing, like somle subtle spider in a corner, new I meshes to entangle smaller folk. We will not venture to Assert that our unele is a type of -his class. We believe, and devoutly hope, that there are holnester men than he. Our uncle is good-natured; but  we have  long seen plainly that he is given to various crooked ways and devices, and we wonder thai Naomi has not seen it herself. In fact, we can hope for little good for our uncle. He is evidently  going down to the ditch; and there are many more getting down  the same declivity who started just as he. Thus of old there were Hebrews dwellinig among idolaters, who were afraid of th] living God, yet loved idols; and, in a wretched attempt to make themselves safe mke hmevssf   Our Chatham-Street Un4le.         (. in. any case, they swore by the Lord, and by Malcham too; for this came the swift curse upon their habitations, "I will cut them off." How many are there now, who vaguely ac- knowledge a dependence upon God's providen- tial care and goodness, yet worship at the shrine of Mammon! To them  God is God, and so is Mammon God; and Mammon gets greater worship.  Our uncle was a Hebrew, -kept the feasts, sent his family to synagogue, lived on good terms with his- rabbi, sometimes thought the holy city would be restored, yet worshipped "piles monish" with all his soul. How many others are there, who call themselves Chris- tians and expect to reach heaven, yet cleave to mammon with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love it as themselves! But leaving preachment, we get back to Naomi in Chatham Street, busy full often in the shop, where she had learned what value   to put upon pawns, how the tickets were man- aged, and could conduct a bargain of less than five dollars' value from beginning to end. She could send articles from and to cellar, shelves, and spout; she knew counterfeit coin, and could tell gold when she saw it. From all these acquirements, probably, our uncle judged that she was becoming a sharp little business woman, and became a little less secretive about his defections, thus increasing her wisdom. Naomi accidentally found a copy of the statutes limiting and defining the pawn- broker's trade: to these laws and ordinances her uncle had often referred, as bearing very heavily upon himself and others of his class. To Naomi they appeared just and wise, need- ful to defend the poor; and yet she knew that, by her relative at least, they were totally disregarded. Did our uncle adhere to legal rates of: inter- est? Nay: he charged on all sums two per cent a montlh  J   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. Did our-uncle retain all pawns for a year, md then advertise before they were sold? Were the pawnbrokers' auctions public? Were they not rather known and .attended only by pawnbrokers, who skilfully played into each other's hands? Naomi's heart grew heavy: the parapets of legality behind which our uncle had sheltered himself turned out to be mere shabby pre- tences. Not to be beguiled, she took the copy of laws to Solomon. Our uncle laughed. "Vy, Naomi, ish ein Heprew to be pount by te law of von Gentiles?" "You would run to that law for redress if any one robbed or beat you," said Naomi stoutly. "Ach, Naomi! Ist viser an vimmen shoult pe!  Vill not let dein uncle lay up piles monish ven vill pe dein own some tay? Ach, mein girl, ist in dein own light; ellh, Naomi?"   Out of Sodom.   "Oh!" cried Naomi, "I never want any of your money. I ha&d rather labor for my- self with my own hands!" Our uncle chuckled, "Fret not deinself, mein chilt; dein olt uncle ish nicht dead yet. Ach, Naomi: he vill live to pe grown olter ant olter, vile te piles monish grows higher ant higher. Eh, Naomi?" It was not long before Naomi came across an article in a religious paper which she found at Aunt Anna's, which opened her eyes yet wider. It was an indignant protest against persons-pawnbrokers were especially men- tioned- who purchased the plunder of pick- pockets. This article stated that there were men in the city who had under them organi- zations of pickpockets of all ages. These light-fingered gentry took what they stole to their chief: he purchased the articles of them for a certain rate, sold them to the pawnbroker for a rate a little higher, and through the    262   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. pawnbroker they made their way back to the public at a still farther advance. Silver arti- cles were melted pown, purses were altered, pocket-books were rejuvenated, handkerchiefs lost their distinctive marks, and, indeed, the cormorants of society found ways to fatten on all manner of robberies. This plain statement of facts brought to Naomi's mind the man who sold to her uncle such quantities of small wares, none too large, to come out of a pocket. The more she considered the matter, the more was she convinced that this was the head of a band of: thieves,--a man who trained children to felony.   She .instituted her inquiries: by asking Daniel if this person still traded at the shop.  "Yes," said Daniel with a grin. ' He does not take tickets?  suggested Naomi.  "Oh, no! we buy of him."   Out of -Sodom.     26 "How does he get so many small things to sell?" "Maybe he's a peddler, got tired of his pack," said Daniel winking. Naomi next attacked her uncle. Whence came this man's trade? "It ish none of mein pisness: he prings, I buys," said Solomon. ,' Suppose,' said Naomi," that he gets the things of pickpockets: what then?" "Vell, suppose he do," said our uncle boldly: " it ish none of mein pisness still. I dosh not pick pockets, put somepody must: it hash always been von vay of doing, ant it alvays vill. Ach, Naomi, ven tere ish ein penny to pe turned, vy shalt not deinri uncle turn it?" "Oh!" thought Naomi to herself," I cannot live here any longer. If it wasn't for poor little 1agar, I'd have gone long ago." But love for Hagar, and the child's loneli.   264   Our Chathamz-Street Uncle. -ness and helplessness, held Naomi from any hasty decision. And then Hagar was sick for several weeks, and Naomi nursed her faith- fully, and did not go into the shop. She, how- ever, read her Bible a good deal, striving to learn her duty about staying longer at her uncle's. She was not afraid to go out into the world: she could have an honorable home with Aunt Anna, and earn enough to provide her board and clothing. She found that con- senting to iniquity is in the same category with practising it ourselves. "When thou sawest a thief" said the Psalmist, " thou con- sentedst with him." "Thy princes," cries Isaiah upbraidingly, "were rebellious, and companions of thieves." "The companion of. fools shall be de- stroyed," writes the wisest of men. And more strongly yet, "Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul." 'And still Naomi was not yet ready to abandon her uncle as a   Out of Sodom.      265  thief: -his kindness to "herself had made her extremely charitable in her judgments of him. While Naomi was attending upon Hagar, a Mr. Lynell, living in the upper part of the city, was robbed, and lost a goodly assortment of family teaspoons and napkin-rings. Little by little, from accidental remarks, and from stray newspapers,-for our uncle did not patronize the press,-Naomi learned of this robbery, little thinking that it could particu- larly concern  herself. Hagar being con- siderably better, indeed called well once more, odr uncle succeeded in getting Naomi to helpl; him in the shop one busy Saturday. Our laundress fond of pawning had again her irons in pledge, and came to Naomi to redeem them. "Sure," she said,  "I just borrowed -the money to get 'em out." As many times before, Naomi protested to   266   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. her that she would never thrive while she haunted a pawnbroker's shop, and advised her to adopt more thrifty ways.  Meanwhile, Simon dived into the cellar, and came up with the irons in his hand. The cellar, the spout, the shelves, were grimy places; and Naomi, from mere force of tidy habits, kept a dust- ing-cloth on her counter to wipe off the returned pawns. She settled the matter of the tickets, received the laundress's fifty cents, wiped one iron, and restored it; but turning up the other to wipe it, lo! a fragment of silver sticking to the bottom. She, pulled off the piece of precious metal, the woman,went away with the irons, and Naomi examined her discovery. It was a portion of a spoon- handle. It had been broken.: the edge, had evidently been partly fused. Shehield it about to the- light, and read "': Lynell" plainly marked upon it. Her heart, bounded, and then grew almost still. She served two or     "WHERE DID YOU GET THAT?"--Page 267'   Out of Sodom.      267 three customers to recover her self-possession, then went behind the screen where sat our uncle, and, laying the marked bit of silver before him, asked plainly, "Where did -you get that?"         ' "Vy, girl! Vere did get it?" cried Solo- moll.           -  "Where did you get it?" persisted Naomi. "It ist not dein pisness," said our uncle angrily; then changing his tone," Tell dein uncle vere did get it, Naomi." "It cameiup from the cellar sticking to a flatiron." Our uncle muttered some very bad words; called Daniel, who became much excited ; and, taking Simon's lantern, they descended to the cellar, and remained there some time. At last our uncle and his chief clerk came up into daylight, both looking angry, and Daniel much mortified. Naomi had made up her mind;.  She went to her uncle: "I must .talk   Our ChatIam-Street Uncle. to you at once," she said firmly. "Ach, ish no place, no dime, mein girl: go vay, Naomi" "I will not go away: I must talk to you about this at once." "Ach, knows too mooch, Naomi, knows too mooch vor ein voman," groaned our uncle: however, not daring to have Naomi speak in the shop, and knowing she would not be silent, he adjourned with her to the front room, where was the favorite seat of Naomi and Hagar. Naomi from habit sat down in the window. Our uncle thrust his hands in his coat-pocket, and, standing before his niece, said uneasily, "Vat vants, Naomi: speaks quick, girl; I canst not leave mein shops." "I want to know where you got that bit of silver." "Vat vor?" queried our uncle : "vould not petray dein old uncle, girl, dein mother's brother; eh, Naomi?" "It is -not to betray you," cried Naonii.   "I cannot do that; but, for my own peace of mind, I must know uncle, how you got that silver." "Veil," said our uncle slowly: "I speak the truth: dein uncle ist no ropper; ish von honest olt pawnbroker, mein girl. I got it from von man ash hash often dealt mit mein shops." "And," said Naomi, "'it was not a separate bit, but was in spoons and such things!"I How she longed for some reply that should carry conviction of its truth to her heart, and yet exonerate her uncle! Our uncle, however, felt sure his Naomi would not betray him, and replied doggedly, "Vell so it vash: I asks no questions; I takes vat ish prought, ant I pays hish price." "But you saw the name on it, and knew it was not his!" cried Naomi. "Hish name might pe Lynell," said our uncle evasively.  3! 1? *     Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Uncle, you knew the silver was stolen." "Von may guess, but von ish not to guess themself to poverty. I asks no questions: it vash not mein pisness." "And then you saw the account in the paper, and djd not restore it when you knew all about the owner." "Vy, girl, vere voult mein monish goes, and vy shoult I pring te laws on mein het; eh, Naomi?" "And then," went on Naomi indignantly, "you broke it up to melt; and you are doing these things all the time, and Daniel melts it up for you: you get silver and gold that you know have been stolen, and melt it." "Ach, Naomi, Ish too vise,--too vise vor ein voman, too vise for dein uncle's gut!" groaned Chatham-street Solomon. "And that was what Daniel was doing that night I found him in the cellar; and this is how I found it out, by his knocking a bit from   Out of Sodom.   the smelting-pot." Here our uncle swore roundly about that "Heprew  chilt," but under his breath; and then said to Naomi, "Vell, mein girl, holt dein tongue: knows how to keeps silent, Naomi. Shall not go to mein shops again ; shall have new dress, and do ash does please, vill not petray dein uncle, ant turn little Hagar out of von home." "No," said Naomi: "I cannot inform about4 you. If you hold to the goods that have been stolen, the sin is equal to that of the thief, and must be on your own head. I can never live with you again. I shall go away. If you repent of this, and leave your bad business, I can see you and speak to you: now I shall only pray God to make you a better man. I cannot eat your bread, or live under your roof. I shall go .away, and earn an honest living. I do not want the clothes you have bought me, and I shall never come here again." r  272   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "Vy, girl, vy, girl, leaves dein olt uncle? ist not dein fault," gasped Solomon. Naomirose from her seat in tie window. "Don't stop me, don't touch me," she cried hastily: " don't hold out your hand, for I can not t0uch. it! I will go away. You need not tell why I went, nor will I. I cannot forget that you were good to my mother, and have been good to me; but let me go, and never come back unless you will act like an honest man." Her cheeks flushed, and her voice never faltered; yet tears dropped slowly from eyes that still flashed with indignation. Her un- cle stood aside, as one abashed and over- whelmed; and Naomi darted past him, and went to her own room. She took a carpet-bag, and began to put in it her little gifts from Aunt Anna and Timo- thy, and. a few articles of clothing. Several of her choicest treasures she laid in Hagar's    Out of Sodom.     273 drawer. The bitterest part of her trial was yet to come: she must part with Hagar. And what should she say? she could not tell the child of the father's sins. Mrs. Simpson lhad gone to see Judith, where she spent much of her time; and Naomi knew she should find her little cousin alone in the parlor: thither she went. "Where are you going?" cried Hagar, seeing Naomi have her bonnet on. "To Aunt Anna's - to stay," said Naomi. "Don't feel very bad, dear: I will come and see you now and then if I can. I don't want to leave you Hagar, but I must." "Why, what for? why do you go? You shan't go!" "I must go: it is wrong for me to stay. I cannot tell you why, Hagar; but I cannot live here'any longer. I am going to live with Aunt Anna, and work for myself." "Then I must go too," said Hagar crying. 18   274   UVr bnr,';- ^v ".I can't live here if you go. If it's wrong for you, it is for me." "No," said Naomi: " this is your father's: you have no right to leave him. You could not take care of yourself, and this is your home. Be a good girl, Hagar: pray for your father. O Hagar! how I hate to leave you!" ,4 Don't leave me," sobbed Hagar, clinging to her cousin. "I shall die if you go away, Naomi: I can't let you go!" ,There, now, we must be brave," said Naomi more cheerfully: " keep your courage  up, and next summer we'll go to the country: again'; or maybe you can come to Aunt Anna's for a week, or I will come and wheel you out in your little cart." "No," mourned Hagar. 'I cant cheer up: it's cruel for you to leave me. I cannot be good nor happy if you go, Naomi: nobody else cares for me ; nobody else does any thing   for me. . I wish I was dead. I'll get sick again, and then I'll die: I know I will." All this nut Naomi to the heart. She felt that she must go: it was wrong to stay. Tlhe bread of dishonesty would choke her. She could not be the companion of thieves; yet then poor lonely, sickly Hagar, to lea her to her careless mother and dreary- home seemed utter cruelty. "Don't grieve so, Hagar," she urged. ' Teach your bird new tunes, do pretty work, read all the books you canll: they will be your company. I left my Bible in your drawer; read that most of all, dear." But Hagar sobbed, and would not be com- forted; so Naomi kissed her good-by, and left her weeping. Our uncle's wifl came home, and was- loudly indignant. Daniel was sulky. Our uncle, cross indeed, scolded his wife for scold- ing, Rose for cooking, Simon for eating  276   Our Cltathzam-Street Uncle. slowly, and Hagar for crying. "Vat ish tere such a coil apout!" he cried: "von girl ist vorth notting; let her goes." Still I am sure, for all this bravado, our uncle had rather have lost his best week's profits than his niece. Naomi went out from her uncle's door, her small possessions in her hand. She was not strong enough to carry the bag very far; but then Timothy's shop was near, and she went in there, and put down her burden.  The gray-haired jeweller looked up from a pair of coral ear-rings which he was mending, and whistled softly. ,Will you bring that up to Asunt Anna's some time, Timothy?" asked Naomi in a choked voice. ,' Ay I'll bring it along to-morrow. Naomi looked out the door, bravely striving to keep back her tears. She was not going to cry over what she had done. But now Chat-   Out of Sodom   .  .2" ham Street looked very dear as she was leaving it, "never, never, never  to go back," as she said to herself. "I'm not going to live at uncle's any more," said Naomi presently: "I'm going up to ask Aunt Anna if I may stay with her." "Have you left there. angry at any of them?" asked Timothy. "No," said Naomi: "I'm only sorry.   I can't stay there any more. I think it would be wicked. I can't tell you what has hap- pened; but I think it is my duty to go where I can eat honestly-earned bread." "I reckon you've found out no more than I guessed long ago," said Timothy; "but whatever it is, if it lies on your conscience as a sin to stay, then it's your part to go. Keep your garments white, Naomi: remember, they were purchased with a price." Naomi stood apparently watching I her old   278  OOur Chatham-Street Uncle. friend work for a little while; in truth, she was only trying to get calm enough lto go into the street full of strangers. She could not think now of Hagar left alone to her heart- broken crying without a rush of tears to her eyes. At last, however, she had mastered the traitor tears and short, catching breaths; so she said "Good-by Timothy," dropped her veil, and went her way; and this was how Naomi fled out of Sodom; because the men of Sodom were sinners exceedingly. Once at Aunt Anna's, Naomi sat down, and cried to her heart's content. Somebody may . think this strange, inasmuch as at her uncle's she had been made rather a nurse-girl or seamstress; and there was nothing in the .   l establishment congenial to her, except poor:  Hagar.  However, Naomi thought' she had ample cause for grief: she was excited,. dis- tressed, by a revelation of her uncle's hardness, of heart; had parted, it seemed forever, from   her only relatives, and was now thrown face to face with the world. She felt better for her crying, however, and began to dry her eyes. ' Ah, child-!" said Aunt Anna, "  these things look very great while they are present troubles; but they drift far off from us, and seem small to look back upon. I often think how light and small all our lives will seem when we get into another world, Tlhe one great event in time will be the choosing for eternity: if that has been- right, every thing else will look right." These were very little sayings, but they helped Naomi to grow calm; and she proposed going up stairs to see Mrs. Roberts, and then over the street to make a call on Mrs. Waters-. Slie expected some unpleasant questions from neighbors anid acquaintances; for you know, for all the world has grown so old since Lameclh was bothered about his Adah and* Zillah, p ople are not yet so wise as to leave off meddling in other people's matters, or           * fi 9 '    280   Our Chatham-Street Uncle.. To all inquiries, Naomi quietly returned answer that she." found it better to live with Aunt Anna at present." And so, in due course of time, she was kindly permitted to do as she pleased, without being expected to proclaim the wherefore from the housetop, positively or metaphorically. On Monday after leaving her uncle's, Naomi - set out to find wavs of earning her own living. She took an extra amount of tatting, knitting, and crotcheting from Ewings, and at her min- ister's obtained a roll -of aprons to make;  - so she soon was established in a light corner of Aunt Anna's room, one of the brave bread- winners of the city. James Waters's first pictures, albeit com- pleted under many difficulties, gave abundant satisfaction: he had secured an energetic and capable, if a captious patroness. She did not * avail herself of his services, and let him drop, careless whether he sunk or swam; but she * I .   Out of Sodom.      - 281 paid him well, praised! his merits, found him friends and further patronage:. and he marked that as a white day in the annals of his life, when he threw up the onerous duties of a porter, and came back to his art. "I greatly feared," said Aunt Anna to Nao- mi, " that James Waters would grow desper- ate, and utterly fall away.  There is plenty here to tempt a man, especially one discour- / aged, to ruin: there are gamblers and coun- terfeiters and dram-sellers, all lying wait to ' mike souls their prey." To James, she praised that heavenly care that had delivered his feet from   destruction, and  been better to him than  all his fears. James and   his wife were yielding more and more to their old friend's good example and counsel; and   Naomi hoped, that, in Ellen's heart at least, the good seed of'the gospel had taken root.            .; We   do not linger on this winter: we set out-        ,    282   Our Chathamz-Street Uncle.. to tell a story of our Chatham-street uncle; and, now Naomi has got away from our uncle, pray what are we to do? All this winter our uncle continued his business, legal and illegal. His peccadilloes were no whit diminished : he dealt with chiefs of pickpockets, plundered the poor, and melted up stolen silver. Per- haps Naomi ought to have made known that matter of thle"Lynell" teaspoon': what shall we say about that? It is a very nice point, and on nice points doctors differ: we are sorry to get into such a close corner as this. We wish --our uncle hadn't melted the teaspoon; we wish our heroine had not found it out; but it is no use to wish. There are several old proverbs about wishing, which we might quote here admirably: however, we will be content with telling things just as they happened. Our uncle was not so good-tempered as com- mon that winter. Naomi's absence was a con- tinual protest against his chosen ways; and, f   Out of Sodom.    . '283 worse than that, he had nobody to pour out his coffee, and too often nobody to pour out hiis tea; for his wife was more fond of staying with her daughter Judith than of staying at home. Then how doleful it was about poor little Hagar! how the child pined, and grew weazen-faced and dull-eyed, came tardily to her meals, had untidy hair as she could not do it nicely herself, wore no more tasty collars and knots of ribbons, and showed soiled or worn dresses!t Our uncle would meditate on his own neglected condition, on Hagar's for- lorn estate, and smite his fist on the table until the cups danced in the saucers, and the tea- spoons jingled something about "Lynell." Naomi did not forget nor    neglect her promise of visiting Hagar: she presented her- self many times at our uncle's door, but never gained  admission. Our uncle's wife felt wrathful enough   at being deprived of her handy young niece: she took Nabmi's going   284   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. in high dudgeon, and instructed Rose not to let her in. Therefore, wlen Naomi humbly kiocked for admission,- though, if the door.' were not kept locked, she would have boldly walked in,-Rose said at one time -that Hagar and Mrs. Simpson were out; again, that they were too busy to see her; next that they did not want to see her; and, finally, that she need not come any more. It might have been a good plan for Naomi to go to the shop, and talk to her uncle; but she would not go there: so she tried to mend matters by bribing a little Jew boy to carry Hagar some notes, a bouquet or two, a Christ- mas gift, and at Purim a gift again. These various .tokens of Naomi's constant love reached the melancholy cripple, yet seemed only to augment her woe. Her mother com- prehended nothing of the child's queer fancies, of her yearning after sympathly, of lier weary longing for the cousin whom she   , Out of Sodom.   ,   285 loved so well, and who understood her so com-- pletely. Mrs. Simpson. was a portly, indolent gossipy Jewess, intent on dress and her own style of pleasure. tHagar, so different from her, must, following some recondite law of psychol- ogy, be the renewal of some fantastic, clinging, tender spirit, embodied in our uncle's family generations gone. Naomi thus absent, the winter passed. Purim  was celebrated. March swept away with winter in her train, and spring came- mild and enervating. Mr. Waters and his wife had moved to a pleasanter neighborhood, still holding fast friendship to Aunt Anna; and Mrs. Roberts was comforted by her new friends after the old man's loss, as was Isaac after the death of his mother. We must now pass on to tell how Naomi's going back, which was to be " never, never, never,' resolved itself into only a matter of a few short months; and she went back again i   286  Our Chatham-Street Uncle. into that very Sodom from whence she fled: for there had been no fire sent down on this modern nest of corruption; and if one angelo of duty took her by the hand and led her out, another, armed with equal power, led her back; and again she walked the ways of life along with our Chatham-street Uncle.   CHAPTER X. UNDER THE THREE BALLS. HOW many charming lace-like lit- tle hoods there are wornll IOW-- t adays. Very delightful for even- ing  strolls on the sea-beach, or along hotel balconies, or to grace- fully cover the "head during  a moonlight evening  spent in rustic garden-chairs, amid the fragrance of flowers and the low sweet music of summer evenings. This disquisition on hoods is to be deemed' fitting because one of them, decorated with about seventy-five little balls, was the last work- Naomi did for 287   :t00  u Jur Wfccrsxf-m apt --- Ewings & Co. Naomi was finishing up the' last of the little balls by an open window one  April morning when Aunt Anna admitted Mrs. Judith Abraham, - stout, warm, flushed, panting. Of course Naomi administered a chair and a palm-leaf-fan, also a glass of water; and presently Judith was able to speak. It may be that astonishment had held Judith silent, - astonishment at her- self for coming way up stupid Spring Street, far enough from the Jews' quarter and from  -l the effulgence of "Three Golden Balls:'  indeed, such a step, or number of steps, for indolent Judith, was enough to. astonish any- : body. "I hope you are all well, cousin Judith?"  i said Naomi. ," Well, why no, of course not: what would I come here for? You'll have to put by that work, Naomi, and come and see Hagar: she's going to die, I think "- '  ] . -  .  * * '  * - * "  . ; '   Naomi dropped her work with a low cry. "Oh! -there's no need of that," said Judith: "dear, but it is a long way here! She isn't going to die to-day or to-morrow: but she's pined clear away, and has been in bed more than a week; and you are all her cry. The doctor can't help her, so he' says." Naomi felt as if she had cruelly neglected her little cousin, and was responsible for the whole situation. This was doubtless a false accusation brought against herself. "How does the child appear?" asked Aunt Anna. "Why - sick, of course. You can come see her yourself if you like: anybody can come who thinks they can  do her any good. Naomi's got to come to take care of her: she won't have any one else; and mother hasn't been used to sick folks, and don't know a thing to do for her. Come, Naomi, put on your dry-goods. I told her I'd bring you back; 19,    290   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. and she won't eat any breakfast till you get there. I felt I must come, for all it's a long way; for I did not want to see her die so mop- ing."  Naomi tied the last tiny ball, and rolled up the dainty hood in a napkin. She then laid  all her finished work in a box for Timothy to take to Ewings & Co. Next she filled her* small satchel with such articles as she needed at once, put on a fresh white apron, her cloth sacque, and her drab hat, and was ready' to depart.  , Gracious!', cried Judith, who had been jabbering unremittingly to Aunt Anna: " how soon you got ready! It takes me all age to get fixed to go out. Whlly, I'd have been here  a week ago, Hagar's kept up such a fret about you, only it is such .a plague to come so far, and we're so busy at the shop!" Truly an affectionate sister was Judith. Naomi bid her dear old guardian and Mrs,   Under the Three Balls,;   291 Roberts good by, -left several messages for her friend Ellen, and followed Judith,'s heavy steps into the street. I mean to ride,'"' said Judith: " there's a car coming. You needn't if you don't like. I'm going home now. You can tell mother to come over to see me: there's no need of her being home any more when you get there." "Very well," said Naomi. "I'd rather walk. I want to stop, and get Hagar some- thing nice." Judith waited for the approaching car, and Naomi went on   alone to her satisfaction. Judith walked so slow, and had such a loud voice, that she was not a very pleasant com-- panion in the street. Naomi bought some large sweet oranges and clusters of luscious Syrian grapes for the little invalid, and was soon at her uncle's. Rose opened the, door to her with a joyful face: she took  her cue from her mistress;    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. and, knowing now that Naomi's coming was welcome, she laid aside the forbidding frown that she had last carried to the door to con- front her. Naomi hastened up stairs. She found Hagar in the bedroom they had formerly occupied together. Once so neat, it was now littered with clothing, bottles of medicine, cups and spoons, and looked as if it had not been visited by a duster for a full month. Our unclis wife was rocking near the win- dow, with a discontented look that cleared off when she saw her niece. Hagar, lying on the tumbled bed, emaciated, eager, and wretched, was a sad sight. She held out her poor little claws of hands to Naomi, and burst into tears./ "'That's a pretty way to do," said her mother. "I thought you'd be so glad to see Naomi." "She is," said Naomi, caressing the sick child; "and I'll stay with her all the time."   Under the Three Balls.   "Then there's no need of my being here," said Mrs. Simpson. "I'll go out somewhere: I've been shut up so for three days, Naomi. Do you think that child can be done any thing for? The doctor don't know what ails her." "I think she'll be better soon," said Naomi cheerfully, searching for a place in the closet to hang her clothes, and then turning to the bureau to empty a drawer, where she might lay the rest of her belongings. "Judith said for you to come over there," said Naomi to her aunt; and soon had the satisfaction of seeing the door close behind the good lady of the house. Her first move was to throw open the win- dows; then, shaking Hagar's pillow, and smoothing the bedclothes closely up about her neck, she told her to lie still for a little while until she came bask from the kitchen. She was not gone long but, when she came back, Hagar had begun to revive a little under the   )4   Our Chatham-Street Uncle.  fluence of hope and fresh air.  Naomi osed the windows, bathed her patient in arm water, brushed her hair, and arrayed her L a clean wrapper. She then wheeled in a ;tle lounge from the next room; and, ringing r Rose, they laid Hagar upon it. With Jose came a tray of breakfast. There was le customary tea and toast, but nicely made, ad set out on a white napkin: moreover, lere was a small cluster of grapes, and half n orange. "I can eat that," said Hagar, "if you'll sit ist where I can see you are here, honest ruly. I've dreamed you were here so many imes."  "I'm no dream now," said Naomi merrily. "Seemed like as if you was same as other hings here, Naomi,-put in pawn, and hur- 'ied off again." "Well, I'll pawn myself to you now, BEagar; and you must geb well to pay for me."   Under the Three Balls   295 "If you mean to go off as soon as I get well, I won't do it," said Hagar faintly. "Now you are done breakfast, shut your eyes, and play you were in a tent. I'll cover you all over with this sheet; and you must fancy my cleaning-up arrangements are the distant noise of battle." Naomi hid Hagar from dust and too much air, as she swept and dusted the room, made the bed, and polished the windows. As she worked, she sang soft, low tones that Hagar loved to hear. We told you that the angel of duty led Naomi back to Chatham Street; and now she was happy and content. It was noon before she set the last chair in its place, and gently lifted up the covering from Hagar's head. The child was in a quiet sleep. Naomi looked well pleased on her charge, and then surveyed the altered appearance of the room. She had made it as plain and tidy as when she had occupied it before. While    Our Chatham-Street Uncle. she was attending to her own toilet, Hagar woke up. "How nice it all is, Naomi! you are my fairy god-mother, you know. Did you have ever so many little fairies in here working while I was asleep?" "( Yes, ten fingers and two feet," said Na- omi, laughing. "I bid them all work well and swiftly for Lady Hagar, who lay sleeping in a tent. Now I must put you back to bed." "You can't lift me," said Hagar. "Poor child, you are light as a feather: how you have wasted away!"   So Naomi laid the patient comfortably in bed, but was grieved to see that just the exertion of being moved nearly overpowered her. "He's coming," whispered Hagar faintly: "be nice to him, Naomi. He cares for me more than mother does." Her quick ear had caught the sound of her father's feet coming up the stairs.   Under /he Three Balls.   297   Perhaps Naomi felt a little embarrassed, t but her wicked old uncle did not: he was glad she had come back, and meant she should stay. "Vy,- Naomi! hast come back to dein uncle, chilt! Veil, veil, ve vill not fight no more; eh, Naomi? Vy, girl, mein Iagar dit nearly die; vill kill te chilt, ant goes vay again. Dein mutter voult nicht have serve dein uncle so, an she dit run off mit von Englishman. Hast run off mit no English- man, my Naomi?" "No: I went because I must, and came back because I ought, uncle." "Ach, must not goes no more, mein Naomi," said our uncle, patting her arm: " ist ein goot chilt, ant hast ein goot uncle now. Vy, mein girl, I am most ash goot ash ein rappi. Vy, Hagar, dein room ist so nice it does shine: shows Naomi ist here. Ant dein gown, ant dein little capt are likes snow. "Vill soon pe veil, put vill lets dein Naomi- I   '298  Our Chatham-Street Uncle. comes down, ant help dein fater to dinner, eh?" . "You may go, Naomi," said Hagar feebly. "Hagar must have a chicken for broth," said the self-constituted nurse decisively. . "Hagar shalt have all te chicken she vants, ant ein turkey too, ant she vill eats him," said our uncle, rubbing his hands jocularly together. "Tere ist te pejl, Naomi: lie still, mein Hagar, till ve comes again. Mein vrow ist gone off: veil, it dosh not matter; .Naomi vill do vor dein uncle." Our uncle was too happy to contain himself: he chuckled all the way down stairs; rung the  bell furiously for Rose, and then, tossing fifty cents at her, bade her go for a fine fat chicken. Then at the table'he turned the carving knife and fork' upside down, and, hammering for attention, cried, "Poys! have got mein Naomi pack. Ve vill have somepody to pours tea and coffee."     .   Under the Three Balls.    299 Then he loaded everybody's plate; ham- mered the table with his fists to get bread, butter, and the castor, sent down to him; and in every way so overflowed with rejoicing that Naomi felt almost sorry she had left him, old sinner as he was. Before going back to his chair of state in the shop,: our uncle must needs go to his niece's chair, and say, "Vill not go vay no more; eh, Naomi?" "Not now, any way,"' said Naomi eva- sively. "Vy Naomi, ist von goot Heprew maiden, ant I cannot let her go. Vat vas Jael, ast dit make vay mit Sisera; ant Deborah, ast dit fight Heprew pattles; ant Judith, ast dit cut off te heat of Holofernes; ant Miriam, ast dit sing py te Red Sea? Vy, Naomi, wast all Heprew vimen; ant here ist ein Heprew voman, ast ist ast goot ast all temrn. Shall not goes in mein shops any more: it ist ein goot shops now, put   800   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. neet not goes .tere; shalt do ash dosh please, mein Naomi, eh?" That -was a very enticing little " eh?" of our uncle's; but, even though it succeeded suchl a stream of commendation, Naomi was not to be beguiled by it into committing her- self on therquestion of staying or going. :She carried up Hagar a dainty little dinner, which was hardly tasted, and then she sat down to read from the Bible. - "Read all about Ruth," said Hagar: "I think she was so nice. Don't you believe she had gold hair and soft eyes; and no wonder that Boaz fell in love with her." Hagar grew drowsy after Naomi had read sometime: indeed, she dropped asleep; and, when she woke, found Naomi had laid aside the book, and was sewing. She had piled up on a chair all Hagar's long-unmended gar- ments, and was beginning thorough repairs. "Naomi," said Hagar's weak voice, "do   Under the Three Balls.   301 I              .  you think I will ever want those clothes any more?"  "Certainly I do," replied Naomi. "They think I'm going to die," said Hagar. "Very likely you would die soon- enough if you were left so untended and disorderly as I found you. I suppose one can die of discouragement and bad air," replied Naomi impatiently; " but I think now you will get better every day. You shall be tidy and cheerful, and have all the fresh air we can get in here; and by and by you can go out to ride in your little carriage." "Do you think so?"  asked Hagar. "I haven't been out of the house since you went away. I'm glad I ain't going to die." "Are you afraid to die?" said Naomi. "Why, not exactly afraid," answered Hagar; "but, if you will stay with me, I'd rather get well: and we can read and talk, and sit in our seat by the window; and we'll   802   Our Chatfham-Street Uncle. die some other time, Naomi. Let's grow old first." "That is as God wills," replied Naomi. "If we live so long, we must try and do some good in the world."  When the bell rang, Naomi went down to tea. "I don't want any light until you come, back," said Hagar; "but just open the stove- door, and let me see the light from that." Naomi had made a fire as the evening came, on cool.  "'Ach, here ist mein Naomi: veil, how ist- te little chilt; canst make her vell, Naomi?" ( I think she will get well if she is well  taken care of. The doctor said she. had less fever: I know she feels better-already." "Ach, yes, girl: it ish pecause du hast come, mien Naomi. Hagar vas fretting vor te. Come, now, give dein uncle ant te -poys ein cup of tea: if Rose least not mate it goot   l Under the Three Balls.   803 ant strong, I vill go down ant tweak her ear. I dit tink I marriet te girl Judith to mein neighpor Apraham: I did not know he vash to marry mniein vrow too. Dein aunt dosh not stay at home veil, Naomi: it ish ein pad plan vor vimini to runs apout so much. Learns not of her, Naomi; learn of dein uncle. He ist ein goot man: he vill soon pe ash goot as te rabbi; eh, Daniel?" Daniel laughed as if this were indeed a capital joke. Timothy brought to Naomi all the clothing she had left at Aunt Anna's; and she alsb found that every thing which she had aban- doned at her uncle's was hanging untouched as when she abandoned it. "You might as well keep your things, and say no more about it, Naomi," said Hagar: "father said no one was to touch your things. Mother talked of selling some of them to Rose for wages, and father was awful angry."   804   Our Chatzam-Street Uncle.  Naomi spoke to her Aunt Anna about the matter; and that wortlhy woman replied, You  have always at your uncle's fully earned your clothes: you must have something to wear; and, as you spend all your time now waiting  ! on Hagar and your uncle, you cannot earn any elsewhere. There is a proper, honest pride, Naomi; and there's an obstinacy we :  f ought to beware of."' Accordingly, one wrm afternoon Naomi  put on a blue and white gingham which she had worn the previous summer. She fastened it at the neck with the ivory pin her uncle  i had given her. When Solomon saw her ill this guise, he was highly delighted. "How    pretty ist, Naomi! Vy, tere ist nein girl about ist so fair: looks like dein mutter, girl. Must pevare of Englishmen, or dein uncle vill preak u dere heads."' "I want to run away with Hagar to-mor- row," said Naomi gayly. "We must make    Under the Three Balls.   3305 her carriage very easy,and get. her carried to it, and let her take a little ride, she is getting better so fast."      , "Aci, yes! ant pye ant pye ve s ill have her down to te dining-room." "I don't see how you are getting her well so nice," said our uncle's wife: "' she got worse and worse all the time I tended her." "Naomi knows how to do every ting,' said our uncle. ." Ven I gets sick, she shall cure me." ,  I'm sure I don't'want to take' care of sick folks," said Mrs. Simpson. "I think it is a great trouble: but Naomi does not care for trouble; I think she likes it." "Nopody dosh like trouble," said our uncle argumentatively; " put some dosh likes von ting, ant some dosh like another. Now, I likes piles monish; ant Naomi likes to does goot; sand mein vrow dosh like to visit dein neighpors." 20  3.06  Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "To be sure: it is much nicer than staying at home," replied Madam Simpson. By the end of July, Hagar was able to go about the house; and Naomi proposed that they should go to Mr. Dickson's for a while. Our uncle made a wry face, but consented to a two-weeks' absence. "If vill comes pack here yen gets home, Naomi?" "You knew what made me go away, uncle," said Naomi. "Vell, tere ish nothing to go vor now," said our uncle. Now, Naomi did not believe that Solomon had altered his ways of making money. She felt that only a vital and complete change would make him an honest man; and she saw no evidence of such amendment. She hesitated a few minutes, and then replied, 4 If I were sure. You are very kind to me, uncle; and I do not like to leave Hagar: if I were only sure."   Under the Three Balls.    307 "Pe -sure of vat I tell you, mein girl. I saysh tere ist no reason vy Naomi shoult leave te olt uncle. Hish pisness ist an honest pis- ness now: it may have peen a leetle crooket vonce; but now it ish ash goot ash ein syna- gogue, ant dein uncle is te rabbi of it. It is te Chatham-street Synagogue, unter 'Tree Golt Balls,' mein Naomi!" Aunt Anna had been to see Naomi and Hagar quite often during the child's illness; and seeing how cosily the two girls lived in their little room or in the parlor, how shut out they were from the influences of the shop and all the evil-doers that came thither, she advised Naomi, to stay at least until going would not consign Hagar -to helpless and neglected misery. "The child has a great claim upon you, Naomi," she said. Now, Hagar heard this, and resolved to push her claim vigorously. She, moreover, confided to her father what old Mrs. Vail had said;   308   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. -and, in his delight, our uncle said, "Ach, ,it ish ein goot voman. If she dosh vant to do any pisness mit te pawnbroker, let her comes to me: I vill deal her ast is right mit ein lay." "I hope she will never need to come," said Naomi. "Maype not; put, if nopody come, vere voult pe mein piles monish; eh, Naomi?" After all, Naomi :went into the country with fHagar for a visit, and came2- back again - to .Chatham- Street, and lived under -the "; Three :Golden Balls."   CHAPTER XI. DISSOLVING 1l-WS.  GAIN Naomi and Hagar sat in their - indow  overlooking the street. It seems very queer to think," said Hagar, ' that, if I had died last spring, all these people, and every thing in the street, would be going on just the same. They are a great deal to me, Naomi, while I sit here; but I am nothing to them.   And after a while we, and all these people that are rushing about so, will be dead; and the streets will look just the same, and all the folks in them will be new. Last wilter * .09   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. I was so lonesome ; and I had no company but the fire." ' And what sort of company was that?" asked Naomi. ", Pretty good for a fire. I left the stove door open, and sat up in bed, and saw thing in the shadows. I'd read our Bible all day, unless Rose found me something out of these boxes; and you've no idea, Naomi, what a poor hand Rose is at finding things. Then at night I'd see in the light and shadow, and in the bright coals in the stove, all I'd been read- ing about. I saw the spies getting dowin out of Rajab's window; and I saw Rahab her- self going to the Hebrew camp; and then I' saw her getting married to Salmon, the prince of Judall. I saw them trying Achall for stealing: I made out not to see his family getting stoned. And I saw Micha stealing his' mother's money: it served him right- when his Levite run off with all his nice things."    Dissolving  Views.    So the two girls sat and talked during the summer evenings. Hagar, never weary of hearing about Naomi's kind pastor, about Mrs. Roberts and Ellen Waters, ajid about the six little girls in the Sunday-school class, which Naomi thought a very interesting group, for all she had once said the smartest of her pupils had been taken away. During the day, they were busyI enough; for Naomi had resolved, if she were living at her uncle's on Hagar's account, she would turn the time to good purpose; so she taught her little cousin to write and cipher. "You must really learn to make and mend your clothes, Hagar," she said: "when I was away they got into a mis- erable condition." "But you are never going away any more," said Hagar. "That you do not know. Why, suppose I should die?" "Then I'd go to work, and get sick, and die  312.  Our Chatham-Street Uncle. too, before all my clothes were worn out," said Hagar, growing lachrymose. "You certainly ought to be willing to do all for yourself that you. can," said Naomi staidly. ' "I'll do any thiing that you want me to, if you won't die or go away. Give me my stock- ings, and I will darn them right away," said Hagar. Mrs. Simpson found plenty of sewing for Naomi; and Judith did not scruple to bring over many a dress, collar, or bonnet, for Naomi to make decent. And time flew faster away than ever; and the hour came when Naomi saw clearly for what she had been kept in Chatham Street all this while. She' liad gone with Hagar to their seat in the window one evening. It was October again, -you see our story has been two years under way,- and they were chatting in their usual happy fashion, when all at once there was much noise   Dissoving Vies.     33 and excitement in the lower part of the house, --heavy steps, loud voices, banging of doors; and her aunt's voice rose shrilly from the par- lor, "Naomi!  Where is Naomi?   Come here, quick, quick!" Naomi put her arm   about Hagar. "I'll help you to our room. Stay there, and don't be frightened until I come," she said; for this was n common call they had heard,- evi- dently no matter of bonnets or biscuits. Naomi answered the call with a clear "Here I am, aunt ;" and then the next minute was in the parlor. Daniel and  another clerk, with two strange men, had carried in the insen- sible form of our uncle, and laid him upon the floor. His face and throat were a living pur- ple, and his loud breathing resounded through the room. Naomi snatched a pillow from the sofa, and placed it under her uncle's head; and, kneel-  ing by him, began loosening his lneck-tie and   314   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. collar. "A doctor!" she said, "and ice quickly! Rose, get some ice!" "Ice.! a doctor! O Daniel, the shop! oh, my! Judith, a doctor! some brandy!"  So screamed his wife. To the shop went Daniel: the shop was the one important place to him. Rose brought ice, and Simon and another had gone for a doctor. Judith and Timothy came in together; and Timothy was so efficient that Naomi, never forgetful of Hagar, dared to run up -stairs a minute; while presently the doctors came, and Mrs. Simpson managed to get a bed arranged in the parlor, and remedies were applied, and she and Rose were as useless as ever, while Timothy and Naomi were tile doctor's helpers. Judith had learned to take an interest in business since -she married; so she seconded Daniel in the shop: and that worthy clerk did ash well as he knew llhow, and closed the shop an hour earlier than usual. Timothy and Naomi were watchers by his     ^  '             -  ;   Dissolving Views.     315 bedside that night. Mrs. Simpson said she would sit up also, but soon fell asleep on the sofa. The doctor remained several hours, and then promised to return early. "He may get well of this," he said. "s I always feared he would have appoplex," said Timothy, whose English was not, as you may perceive, accu- rate. It was nearly noon before our uncle revived: then he opened his eyes, stared a little, and tried to speak. Naomi came near him:  he made a second effort. "Te shops!" was all our uncle said. "That is all right, uncle," said Naomi ;but, perceiving that his hearing was dulled, she shouted hler answer again in his ear as loud as she could. Our uncle smiled. "I cannot nurse sick folks," said Mrs. Simpson: '" you must tend your uncle, and I will go into the shop. That was my business once, and will be again if Solomon don't come   816,   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. round.  Take good care of him, Naomi., Think he will get well?" ' ' "I hope so," said Naomi, thinking what, a wife Mrs. Simpson was, to be sure. It was at least four days before our uncle got beyond those two words, ." te shops?" but those he anxiously repeated several times inl the course of the twenty-four hours to Naomi, and, by pointing to the door, indicated his desire that she should go down, and be able to report accurately the state of that little kinrg- dom.  Naomi, the most accommodating of nurses, therefore made an observation, and reported "All right." It was the first time:I Naomi had entered those lower regions since the teaspoon excitement; and she looked about on the hungry, eager-eyed crowd, the     crafty clerks, and the general confusion, feel- ing that she did not wish to go again: how- ever, she was by no means done with that shop on Chatham Street. 4. . .      .  .      .:   Dissolving Views.    317  Of course Naomi did not have the whole care of her uncle: she had plenty to help her day and: night, but the responsibility of the nursing rested with her. To her the doctor gave his orders, and with the ministrations of no one else was our uncle so well pleased. Hagar kept near her father much of the time. She would perch on the foot of the bed, and inquire ilfo his symptoms and fancies, and draw parlels between his case and what her own' hadbeen. "Don't Naomi fix your pillowh good, father? she made mine so comfortable. "Can you beat your tea when Naomi don't mae it? I couldn't. "Don't she cook chicken splendid; and don't you like to have her sing? I used to." Our!uncle's hearing, and the power of speech, came back to him, but his strength ! seemed to have entirely departed; his limbs were feeble and tottering, and there was no    318   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. help for him but to lie in bed, and wait pa- tiently for returning vigor. Of course he was a restless prisoner: he reviled his doctor, his nurses, - all but Naomi, --his room, his bed, Iris food. "Shan't I read to you, uncle?" asked Naomi. "Vy, yes, chilt," cried our uncle, catching  at the notion; "reads to dein uncle. Vat pook hast now, Naomi-+" "The Bible, your scriptures, uncle."  "Vy, vat does I vont of dat, chilt? I knows all temrn olt stories vell enough. Can tells all apout David, ant -Samson, ant Jeremiah, ant Jonah. I does not pelieve the story of Jonah, Naomi."    - "You ought to,'uncle. And then the Bible is not just a story-book: *if you do remember all the stories, you should hear it now for something better, -for your soul's good." "Ach, Naomi, I tells you I knows it all.' f   )  Dissolving Views.     319     !  Vy, chilt, it is to me ein pretty song, put it ish olt: te rappis have sung it to -me ven I vash ein leetle poy. Let te vimmin ant te rappis have te printed pooks: tere ish von petter pook vor me; it ish mein ledger. Go, chilt, pring mein pooks vromlmein desks. Read temrn to me, girl.:'lhast ein goot heat; can tell- dein uncle if te Heprew cllhiltren down in mein- shops keeps mein pooks straight." , "O uncle!" said Naomi gently, bending over him," let the books go for a while. You say you 'are old-: you are also sick. Uncle, there are other books. The Scripture tells us of God's' books of record: are you ready-to have them opened, uncle." "'Achl, chilt, vy vilt pother dein uncle! Azrael has knock at mein door, ant hash gone away. Tell me no nonsense, girl, apout te sands of mein life running down. If mein eyes are shut! te pooks of mein shops ant mein pislnes vill run down: vat shall dein uncle  Our Chatham-Street Uncle. do if hish piles of monisl doth nrt grow. Lent dein ear, Naomi. Dein uncle ish olt: he vill tells te visdom lhe hash learnt in hish life. Ven piles monish stops growing large, they pegins to grows shmall. Mint it, girl, and pring mein pooks."  Naomi's heart sank as she sat by her uncle's bedside with his day-books and ledger, and noted how his whole soul was bent on his money, clinging closer and closer to his idol as the time drew near of losing it forever. Hagar, longing like Naomi to turn the dying man's mind to higher things, would sometimes ask Naomi to read to her while she was in her father's room. The last two chap- ters in Revelation were her favorites, and one day she asked for them. As Naomi read, her uncle commented on the passage, "Te holy city? vy, Naomi, it ish vat te rappi tells apout, put I dosh not pelieve it. It ish ein shmall city, Naomi, - too small, chilt. Tere must pe   some mistake apout te measure. Gold streets, dit say, Naomi? Vy, girl, it ish von fine place: dein uncle voult pe veil suited. Put, mein chilt, he voult not: dosh see, Naomi, if te pavements vere of gold, ten mein piles monish vill pe pelow par."  Yes, truly: our uncle's piles of dross are very far below par in the New Jerusalem. "I shall not die!" cried our uncle one day. "I vill not die yet: I hash too much to do. Put I vill make mein vill; .tere ish no harm in tat. Prings me. ein lawyer: I vill make mein vill. Take heart, Naomi: ein man can do vat he vill mit hish own, ant dein uncle vill get all mate straight now. I vill pegin mit mein soul, and vill pequeath it to mein father Apraham: I does not mean Judith's huspand; eh, Naomi?" Our uncle made his will: a queer instru- ment it was in some respects. He was bent on having his own way as usual, and in effect 21   322   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. bequeathed his "body to te grount, his soul to father Apraham to takes goot care of it, ant the monish to the vimin." On this wise: his wife was to have one-third, Naomi one- third, and Hagar one-thirdi and Naomi was to have Hagar, and the child's property was carefully put out of her mother's reach. The lawyer ventured a remonstrance about taking Hagar from her mother; but at this our uncle laughed. "Mein vrow dosh not vant te chilt," lihe ciried: "te chilt ish lame ant trouplesome. Mein vrow vill get marriet again von day, put not yet; vor I vill not die, I tells you: I am too busy to dies. I must piles up meini monish!" Very likely this testamentary curiosity had relieved our uncle's mind; for he began to amend, and could- go about his room. His chief cry was to get to the shop. The .doctor was much irritated by his headstrong patient. '; I tell you he's a dying man," he said to   Dissolving Views.     323 Naomi.. " le isn't fit to. stir about: I he will have his own way about eating and drinking. He keeps his mind in a fret about his business; and lie's like a man of straw, no- power iin him; and the least little thing will knock him over into his grave." Spite of all this, our uncle would go into the dining-room, and eat like other people, and then would go to his chair in the shop. Down stairs he went between Daniel and Naomi; and, as the stairs were such a trial to his weakness, Rose was to carry his dinner to him in the shop. As to Naomi, she must stay by him constantly. Beside our uncle's chair, a chair was placed for his niece: she must helphm with the books; she must make up what was lacking of his eyes,. feet, hands, and tongue in  the supervision  of the  shop. "Dein mutter woult have pin just such goot girl to me, Naomi," he would crys, "if she lihat not run off mit ein Englishman. Shalt   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. run off mit ein Englishman deinself, girl, if dosh vant to, ven dein uncle's poty ish in to grount, ant Apraham hash hish soul: vill have monish then, mein girl!" Or, taking a new argument to reconcile himself to all his exactions, he would say, "Mein girl, if dit get sick, dein uncle voult takes goot care of her. Dit not dein uncle pay vor goot care vor her ven she vash von leetle chilt. Did not he goes to see her mit candy in hish pockets every veek? Dit not dein uncle pury dein mutter like ein Heprew woman should pe?  Vill not pegrudge dein uncle dein cares?" "No," said Naomi: "I do not begrudge you any thing I can do for you. But I wish, uncle, that you would leave caring for your money, and care for your soul." "Ach, girl, let mein soul pe! I have give it to mein father Apraham; and, if he dosh not takes care vor it, it vill pe his faults, not mein!"   Again Naomi watched the ebb and flow of the human current through the door of our uncle's establishment. Again-she saw clothes pawned to buy rum, and bedding pawned for bread. Again our easy-going pledger of flatirons saluted her with a jaunty air, trans- acted her small pawnbroking affairs, and went her heedless way. Day by day Naomi saw little children with weazened faces and sharp old airs, coming in, in their poor way, to get the means of satisfying their hunger, or perchance attain to some miserable mock- ery of pleasure at eating-shop or theatre. Chiefs of pickpockets dealt at our uncle's yet; but Daniel was wary enough to receive them out of Naomi's sight. The " melting" busi- ness was not done, away; but it was very secretly- conducted: and, though Daniel accepted goods which he knew were stolen, he did it with a cheering simplicity and affec- tation of confidence in the pawners' honest,    326   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. which went far to disarm  Naomi's suspi- cions. So matters went on until Purim was passed again. The feast was not kept at our uncle's: his wife went to Judith's; Naomi was busy with that poor wreck, our uncle; and the clerks were busy with the shop. If our uncle had been willing to believe it, life and all its cares and changing scenes were slipping from his view, dissolving, dying, one by one, into that scene for him so cheerless, the coffin, shroud, and pall. An enemy entered our uncle's house at midnight: not Azrael, with pensive brow, and torch inverted, but a stealthy foe ; waking up first in one small bright secret spark; widen- ing, and lifting up a little darting angry tongue like a serpent enraged; uncoiling still, and sending out more tongues like a whole nest of serpents; raising high a twist- ing, glowing head, hissing for a troop of   Dissolving Views,     327 brother-demons that follow at his will; fling- ing up a black pall of smoke: it was fire! gathering his legions to destruction, and making fierce onslaught in our uncle's house. Naomi, with the care of two feeble ones resting upon her heart, was but a light sleep- er. Often did she awake, believing her uncle or Hagar in some deadly peril. This night, bending her ear to catch what sounds might break the stillness, she heard the crack-and snap of wood under the feet -of the enemy who had taken possession.  Rose and the clerks were in their attic rooms. Our uncle and his wife were heavy sleepers; but Naomi in a few seconds had aroused them, and from an opened window had called the dread name of fire to the watchmen in the street. Rush- ing from their several rooms, the family were gathered in the upper hall. "Te shops!" roared our uncle, more totter- ing and infirm than ever.   Oar Chatham-Street Uncle. "My clothes!" cried our uncle's wife. "O my pocket-book and my bonnet!" shrieked Rose. "' The safe!" yelled Daniel. t Fire! fire! fire!" chorused Simon and his peers, the managers ofthe spout. "Te shops, te shops! mein girls! Hagar! mein Naomi! te shops, te shops!" Our uncle was holding on by the wall, and exhausting himself by these cries. He might have been taken for an unusually fine actor, performing Shylock, and at the part, "My ducats and my daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter!" ( Get your things, Rose: the stairs are safe yet," cried Naomi; even then remembering that Rose was a poor girl, and her pocket- book her all. "Save what you can, aunt: open the door for the people to help us, Simon," she called, as heavy blows resounded on the outer doors. "Now, Daniel, Joseph,   Dissolving Views.    329   come: let us get uncle and Hagar away first, over to Judith's." She clasped her arm about Hagar, who, shivering in shawl and night- dress, clung to her. How Naomi had man- aged to get dressed was a mystery to every- body, even to herself. "I cannot leave mein shops! Put te fires out! vater! Police, keeps out te folks; tey vill robs mein shops! Te safe! Daniel, leave me: get te safe. Comes pack, Daniel: I shall pe .purnt up! Get out of mein vay, every- body: I must get to mein shops!"And thus vociferating and struggling, he was carried over to Judith's, and Hagar was soon brought thither also. Mrs. Simpson was wildly trying to save what she could from the house: Rose and the clerks were desperately dashing in and out among the crowd. Naomi rightly concluded that her best part was to stay, and take care of her two invalids. They were in Judith's room, which overlooked   Our Ch(atham-Street Uncle.  the scene of disaster: it was possible that the fire might spread, and drive them froni their present refuge; but the wind was the other way, and Naomi hoped better things. She soothed Hagar, and covered her up warmly in Judith's bed, and tried to persuade our uncle to go to bed too. "Take care of your- self, uncle: you are sick; this exposure may kill ydu," she urged. "Takes care vor meinself!" shouted our uncle fiercely. "Takes care vor meinself ven mein shops ish purning! Go helps ter, girl: lets me go too. Ach, I shall fall! Vell, girl, puts ein chair vor me py te vinter. Ach, mein shops! I see it! ach, te fire, te fire! I vish Rose vash purnt ups in it: it ish all her faults, I know. Naomi, how dit mein shops catch fires?" "I'm sure, uncle, nobody knows," *said Naomi, wrapping a large cloak about her uncle, seating him'comfortably in a chair, and i   putting a cushion under his feet: then she stood close beside him, expecting every mo- ment to*ee him fall in a fit. The fire was making evident headway; the firemen turned out but slowly at first, and amid our uncle's other cries for a few moments might be heard, Te engines! Ach, te engines! vy dosh tey not comes?" The engines rolled up at last, drawn by ahooting multitude. In the strong light of the burning building, the whole scene was plainly revealed to the watchers in the. upper window. An immense crowd had collected, greater even than is usual at fires, for in this building hundreds had something at stake. What wives and children who had made secret pawns, what laundresses who had pledged part of the property entrusted to them by their employ, ers, what unfortunates who had set out of their keeping for a while treasures with which they could not permanently part, were   332   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. gathered 'around that blaze in Chatham Street 1       * The first impulse of these people was to save the house: they helped in every possible way to preserve the edifice and its contents. Hundreds of Jiands brought out the wares with which the place was crammed: hundreds of voices cheered on the firemen in their work. From the open windows myriads of bundles were flung into the street; the opposite side- walks were piled with furniture; the spout was choked with an avalanche of parcels. Out of the windows came flying bales that, inconveniently breaking open, coats, blankets, and bedquilts sailed slowly through the air, under the shower of falling sparks; boots and shoes rattled upon the multitude; now and then a'tremendous crash told that some pon- derous piece of property had come to grief. Our uncle was gazing on the scene with start-   Dissolving Views.     33. ing eye-balls, and clutching at the window- frame with trembling fingers. "Ach, they have the safe! Mein goot Dan- iel! nople Heprew! Mein pooks ant te jew- elry ish safe! Ach, Naomi, temr peoples ist stealing! Shtop ternm, shtop tern! Mein gudes, mein shops! I shall have nothing left! Police! police! Shtop thiefs! shtop! Achll, ach,mejn shops, mein shops!  True enough, the crowd obeyed the second impulse of the occasion, which was to steal; they were plundering the plunderer: hardly a boy in the neighborhood but was making off with something. The man who had pawned one coat ran off with two or three. Here was an individual with a hat on his head, one under each arm, and a pair of boots in either hand. The women were getting chairs enough to seat all their families, and dishes enough to fill their shelves. -The police were almost distracted: thieves walked boldly off in full 4    Our. Chatham-Street Uncle. view, knowing that there were not enough officers to arrest tlem. While the agents of the law were capturing one villain, half a dozen more were near them in full swing. Naomi beheld the pawner of flatirons reaping a full harvest; securing tubs, pails, and cloth- ing, in lieu of the irons that were not brought out from the cellar. "Ach, te Gentiles, te thieving Christians! shtop te teives! Vy, mein monish vill all pe gone! Ach, see mein pawns . they hash all got legs, Naomi; ach, how tey runs up te Powery! Tere tey goes off Chatham Street! Sees, Naomi! runs catch em, girl! Ach, to pundles, how tey ist lugged away! Te fires! Te vindows ist all burnt, te roof vill, fall, dein uncle ist von ruined man!  Acll, dein old uncle ish ruined! to doors ish purnt, te valls dosh crack! tey hash not got out half mein tings!"  These were dissolving views indeed. The   triumphant fires rose higher and higher. They licked up with insatiate tongues trace after trace of wrong and oppression; they leaped and danced in impish glee over the ruins of robbery and extortion; they trampled under glowing feet the hot ashes of many a relic of sin and sorrow. Up into the skies rolled in black smoke a thoulsand tales of tears, and heart-burnings and despair. Arched over the sidewalk, on their iron standards, riveted well into the brick walls of the house, the "Three Golden Balls" held out bravely, re- flecting the fiery glare; the business tley symbolized crumbling into. ashes above and behind them, and running off on thieves' feet below them, like colors nailed to the mast of a sinking ship, or banners held up triumpl- antly over a lost battle, the ":Three Golden Balls" held their own as the scenes of our uncle's life was changing. "Ach, Naomi, dein, uncle ist undone. Mein   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. shops ist gone! I piles up no more monish. Vere ish mein pisness, mein good pawnprok- ing pisness, ash brought me monish to spare? Te pank vere mein monish ist vill purn down next; mein girl! I hash monish, piles monish; but I did vont more.  Vat shall dein uncle do? Mein gutes ist going; mein house ist going. Ach, Daniel keeps mein pooks, mein safe! Shtop te fires! shtop te thieves! Te Gentile police dosh not care; te Christian fireman dosh not care vor te He- prew! Ach, ach!" There was a wild glare, a mighty crash, a shriek from the crowded street. The roof of our uncle's house came crushing down; the "Three Golden Balls" went shivering to the pavement. "Mein monish, mein monish!" cried our uncle, and fell forward unconscious; his "Golden Balls" descending, lost amid the general wreck, the last bf the dissolving views   I   that met our uncle's eyes. Morning looked upon the charred ruins of our uncle's house. Faint wreaths of smoke rose over the half- dead embers.  What of the goods had not been stolen were stored away. The safe was at Abraham's. At Abraham's, also, lay our uncle, breathing heavily. No hope for him now. Mrs. Simpson, awaking to the exigen- ces of the occasion, relied solely upon Daniel. Said this exemplary wife, "Tend to your uncle, Naomi. I cannot mind sick folks; and the business must be seen to." So she ran about busily all day. Her dormant energies seemed waking up. When the work of clear- ing away the ruins began, as soon as they were cool enough. to venture among, Daniel the wise was busy where, among the debris in the cellar, he mighlt hope to find something in the way of metal more precious than old iron. From the upper window where our uncle had watched the progress of the fire, 22  Our Chatham-Street UVicle. our uncle's wife watched the researches of Daniel the head cerk. She turned away at last, her mind relieved, and stood at the foot of the bed. "Dear, dear! isn't he going to get over it, Naomi?" Naomi shook her head.  "Dear, dear!" - speaking of her husband as already departed -" he was always a good- natured manl; never interfered; let people go their own way; and such a hand at making money! Well, I've been left a widow be- fore," -she was not a widow yet, though she- spoke as in that melancholy state, -"I think I know how to take care of myself. Dear, dear! what does he want now,' Naomi?" "He is growing conscious," said Naomi, as with the doctor she bent over the patient. In a few moments she called, "Uncle!" "He hears you," said the doctor. Our, uncle held out his hands feebly. Naomi clasped one, and Hagar the other.   "Uncle!" cried Naomi. Mein girl?" said our uncle thickly. "He's better," exclaimed Mrs. Simpson, coming near. "Only for a little: he will not live half an hour," said the physician. Speech and reason came. back wonderfully to our uncle in the next few minutes. He looked about. "Naomi!" He felt her warm tears dropping on his forehead as she bowed over him. 'Hagar grasped his hand, and sobbed bitterly. "Ist ein goot girl, Naomi. Vaits on dein uncle; cry not, -ish netting te matter. Mein shops, girl,: it ish gone, put tere ish money in te panki I vill piles monish up more py ant py. Naomi, heed dein uncle: keep no maid-servants; tey vill set dein house on fire mit te ash-parrel. Naomi, runs not avay mit ein Englishman, likes dein mutter. Mein girl, hold vast to dein monish.'.'    340   Our Chathzam-Street Uncle. These were his parting counsels. He dozed a little and awoke; but his mind wandered. "Naomi, pring mein pooks: dein uncle ish ein honest man. Daniel, mind mein shops veil. * Ach, chilt, vere ish -mein monish." With the name of his idol, marinon, on his lips, our uncle ventured into eternity. Come hither ye who would dare such a death-bed: whoso will live to mammon, to mammon he shall die. Whoso forgets God, whoso forgets the claims of his fellow-men, whoso despiseth his immortal soul, let him learn a lesson from the last hours of our Chat- ham-street uncle: by God rejected, by men plundered and deserted, traitor to others and himself, behind him clang "the iron gates of time; " and where is he? The "Three  Golden Balls." were but gilded toys, and could not stand the test of- fire.   Dissolving Views.    341 We have all one common heritage, - a grave and nothing further, unless it be some monu- ment great or small for a few years to mark our resting-place. Our uncle had a grave and a gravestone. He was carried outi of Chatham Street, and knew its devious turns of life no more. The widow Simpson, Naomi, Judith, and Hagar sat the afternoon after the funeral in Judith's room. Hagar was on a low stool, her pale face resting on her cousin's lap. "Well," began Mrs. Simpson, " what are we all going to do?" "You're going into business again, ain't you, mother?" asked Judith. "Yes: I must do something to turn my money over. I shan't have more than seven or eight thousand. That fire was a hard thing on us, Judith." "You might stay here until you set up again," said Judith pointedly.   Our Chatham-Street Uncle. "I'm going to Aunt Anna's," said Naomi. Hagar grasped her hand closer. "Timothy is coming to take me there after supper." "There's Hagar," began Judith hesitat- ingly, "She frets for you so," said Mrs. Simpson; "and I'm to be so busy looking for a shop, and helping settle up the business." "You're of age," said Judith to Naomi: "you can have your money right away, as soon as the will is proved. He might have left me something: I lived in his house long enough to be remembered, I'm sure." Hagar was sobbing forlornly on Naomi's lap. "I never want to be separated from Hagar," said Naomi to her aunt. "If you don't - well, if you had just as leave, she will go to Aunt Anna's with me: we can make room for her somehow." "Well," said Mrs. Simpson cordially, "if she wants to, and you can make it do."   "I can't be away from Naomi," said Hagar. "Of course I'll come and see her" said the model mother; "and she'll liave  money enough to pay her way. If she wants to come back she can: but there is no one to wait on her here; and she always cared most for you, Naomi." "And I care most for her," said Naomi, gathering the grieved and rejected child in her arms. Hagar went with Naomi to Aunt Anna's. They grew contented and cheerful. The bur- den of the terrible night and day rolled off their hearts. The summer grew hot. They went to Mr. Dickson's. Three months after the fire, and Mrs. Simpson had got into business again, and mar- ried Daniel. To be sure, he was only about half her age; but he needed money, and she a business-man, so the match did very well.    344   Our Chatham-Street Uncle Our uncle's business was settled in that time: all he left had been in bank-stock, and was easily divided agreeably to the will. Hagar had honest guardians; and she was left in Naomi's charge, "I don't like the city," said Naomi. "Letus go away to one of the nice places up the river. I hate being in New York," said Hagar: "it makes me havebad dreams." Aunt Anna was homesick to be out of the city, as she had been when a child. "Come, Mrs. Roberts, we'll all go. We have enough to take care of us all. You shall come to keep Aunt Anna company," said Naomi. "Bless the Lord that sent you to be a child to my old age," said Mrs. Roberts; " but you must bring me back to bury me, - when that time comes,--beside the old man and our girl." Timothy bought Naomi a house. You may   Dissolving Views.    345 see it in the prettiest village on one side or the other of the Hudson. Timothy went from the city too. He set up his small business near his half-sister and the girls, and thrived as before. Thus were in one family the two old ladies, and the two young girls; and they were happy in being and doing good. Through these present calm, bright days of their life, they do what their hands find to do; and count all their time from that white day of their Hegira from New York; and now they go no more under the baneful influence of the "Three Golden Balls " that swing over any of our Chatham-street uncles. . ' s    
         
       
   
