
    ----CITATION----
        Whitcher, Frances Miriam Berry, (1811-1852). The Widow Bedott Papers .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8268
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Widow Bedott papers 
            
               9
~ A~
N
*1.
,~.q  %                       4
-                                           ~Aib#tn'
4                                                          9
N
4.           1~

S
k
I
I
ci
)

S


P aro PotLai"d hi    iewr     onderfully pleased,.ith it, used tsin it

C

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

WITH AN INTRODUCTION

BY

t

'ALICE B. NEAL.

NEW YORK:

3 . 0. DERBY, 119 NASSAU STREET
BOSTON: PHILLIPS, SAMPSON &amp; C0.
CINCINNA TI : H. W. DERBY.
.18t56.

U
I

THE


CONTENTS.
-          I.
Huuxxa DEDOTI'.............   . *... ~*.....  21
IL

EwmzD according to Act of Congress, Ia the year ISIS, by
-             3. 0. DERBY,
ZR ~e C3erh~e OBoe .f the District Court of the U.S. forth. Southern District of New T~*.

Tim W'now' E8s&amp;rs POETRY,.............................
ilL
WEDOW' JENKINS' .A.NXILOSIT!    * ~,*  . .. ~ see..... *4 g.e

w. II. nasa, steneotypr.

-

Gzoan Rvuuma. A Co. PdMme4

V.
Tin Winow flZsaouxiams ow ~ 47
VI.
Tin WzDowLosz~mBzAu                    ..'.' 59
VIL
1~R ORLJZ &amp;BOUT TO PIOPOBZ.             * .....~......  (0
~Vm.
Ma; CRANE WALKOUTT.                  . eL... .....

27
82

39


Vi                    CONTENTS.
IX.
THE WIDOW "SETSHERCAP"         . * *   .......       86
x.
THE Wwow RESOLVES TO LEAVE WIGGLETOWN. ...~ ..~. 95

C O NT E NTS..        vi

xvm.
P&amp;~23
THE WtDO~v WRITES TO HER DAUGHTER, MRS. 3'UPITER SMITH.. 184

XIX.

THE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES ABROAD.........................191

XI.

-        I~ITT~IVIXT 'VnAIVL 0 WITH  "~"""'-"'~
T~J~                          A ~            . .

10'1

Z~L.
THE RE . MRS. S~IFFLESAT Ho~i................

XXI.
THE WiDow ~D AUNT MAGUIRE DISCOURSE ON VARIOUS
Topics..................... ................................119
XIIL
THE Wwow HAVING HEARD THAT ELDER SNI~'FLES 15 Sw~,
WRITES TO HIM..................................... 134
XIV.
T~ Winow RESORTS TO ELDER SNIFFLES FOR RELIGIOUS IN-
STILUOTION............... ....*........141
Xv.,
THEWIDOWCONCIJUDESTOPUBL1SH.........
XVI.
THE Wwow PREPARES TO RECEIVE ELDER SNIFFLES ON
THANKSGIVING-DAY.................................. 161
XVII.
THE Wmow RETIRES TO A GROVE IN THE REAR OF ELDER

XXL
THE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES EXPRESSES HER SENTIMENTS IN Thi.
GARDTOTHEPARSONAGE.....................

XXII.

XXIII.
AUNT MAGUIRE'S DEscI~lPTION OF THE DONATION PAR~Y...... 245
XxIv.
AUNT MACWIRE TREATS OF ~HE CONTEMPLATED SEWING $OOIETY
AT SCRABBLE HILL...................................273
XXV.
.A~ii~n~ MAGUIRE CONTINUES HER ACCOUNT OF THE SEWING
SOCIETY........................................293
XXVL
AUNT MACWIRE's VISIT TO SLABTOWN..................... SiS

204

Vli


COZ~TEKTs.

XXVL
V~ISITTO8LAETOWNCONTINUED.................
330
xxvnJ.
Mas. MAGUIEE's ACC0UN~~ ow DEACQN WmppLs....,.,**,*,, 345

xxTx.

M~S.MUDLAW'B RECIPE FOR POTATO Pmmn~rG... .. .......... 369
m.
MORNING CALLS; OR, EVERY RODY'S PAnTIOULAI~ FRIEND.,.... 883

TuE Bedott Papers~-now for the first time collected,
were first widely introduced to public notice through the
columns of' "Neal's Saturday Gazette."
Its editor-Joseph C. Neal, the well known author of the
"C1~arcoal Sketches," was struck by the originality and clear-
ness of the .flrst of the series, when submitted among the
mass of contributions, which crowd a weekly newspaper.
It was scarcely in print before the author's name began to
be asked by subscribers, ~asuaa readers, and brother editors,
some of whom attributed them to Mr. Neal himself~ They
could scarcely be made to believe that sketches so full of
humor, so remarkable for minute observation of human na-
ture, were the work of an unpracticed pen.
A correspondence arising in this way between the editor
aud his unknown contributor, Mr. Neal learned that "the
Widow Bedott," as she was familiarly called, had not even
entered the "holy estate," but was still the center of a hap-
py home circle, in Whitesbor49, New York. That she had
never before written for publication, and was ~ sensitively
modest, and-indeed unaware of her reuu~rkable talent as &amp;
hui~iorist, that she was quite willing tQ cease then and th.r
- 1*

~viii

&amp;

INTRODUCTORY.


INTRODUCTORY

I3~TRODUCTORY.         xi

the history of the Widow's adventures. Mr. Neal's reply
to this despondent mood, was perhaps de~isive as regards
the continuation of the series, ~and we quote it as preserved
among her papers It has the more value as being the
unsolicited opinion of a practiced critic who possessed the
keenest natural sense of humor.
PIIILADELPIIIA, September, 10th, 1846.
"My DEAR CORRESPONDENT BEDOTT:
"Your last contributions have been received, and are
truly welcome. The "Gazette is again deeply your debtor;
for your aid has been indeed truly valuable to "Neal."
But I regret to find that Duberly Doubtington has cast a
"glamour" over you about continuing in the comic vein, just
at the moment too, when all the world is full of Bedott.
Our readers talk of nothing else, and almost despise "Neal"
if the Widow~be not1 there. Au excellent critic in these
matters, said to me the other day, that he regarded them as
the best Yankee papers yet written, and such is indeed the
general sentiment. I know for instance, of a lady who for
several days after reading one of them, was continually,
and often, 'at moments the most inopportune, bursting
forth into fits of violent, laughter, and believe me 'that you,
gifted with such powers, 'ought not to speak disparagingly
of the gift which thus brings wholesome satire home to
every reader. It is a theory of mine that those gifted with
truly humorous geniu&amp;., liA~ yourself are 'more us~fid zs moral.
ists, phiIo~ophers, and teachers, than whole legions of the
gravest preachers. They speak more efectually to the general
ear and heart even though they who hear are not aware of
the fae4 that they are irn~i~ing wisdom.
"To be sure if you have more imperative duties,. I should
be the last to wish that you should neglect them~; butif

your hesitations arise from other scruples, it appears to me
that if you were to weigh them well they may be found
mere intangibilities. But of all this you, of course, must
be the judge, and any interference on my part would be in-
trusive and impertinent.
"But I would add that Mr. Godey called on me to inquire
as to the authorship &amp;f the "Bedott Papers" wishing evi~
gently to obtain you for a correspondent to the "Lady's
Book." I declined, giving him the name, etc., until I had
consulted you, checking the selfish impulse that would have
denied him, that "Neal" might' monopolize a correspond-
ent so valued as "Frank." Would you like to hear from
him on the subject?
"Thii* on it then before yielding up the pen of comedy,
but in any event, whether you conclude to be either serious
or comic,
"Believe me ever yours,
"Josi~i'ii C. NEAL."
The result of Mr. Godey's negotiations will be found in
"Aunt Maguire's Experience"-Aunt Maguire, being cer-
tainly worthy of her distinguished relationship.*
The New Year found Miriam Berry a bride, and separated
from the cherished arid cherishing home circle, with new
duties and responsibilities as the 'wife of a clergyman.
Yet to quote from a charming inemoAal from the pen of
an almost equally gifte~ sister, "Her sketches even under
these circumstances, require neither vindication nor apology.
They were never condemned by any except those who felt
* We may here'add that, as in th&amp; case of Mr. Neal, the friendly interest
of the courteous editor of the '~ Lady's Book" de~j~ned from that tizue,
rtnd It is with bis wannest approval and predictions of success that the
volume conta1ning~'bQth series, is now Is~ued.


Zu       INTRODUCTORY.

I~TTRODUGTORY.     -   Xiii

the sting of her satire pricking against their vices. The
good sense of the entire reading public gave them praise,
and their popularity was abundantly shown in the eagerness
with which the country press copied them from the Phila-
delphia papers. her humor was chaste and original, so
true to nature that the most ignorant reader could not fail
to feel its force, and the most~refined could discover nothing
that would shock the keenest sensibility. From the time
of Horace to the present, it has al\vays been thought proper,
and often profitable, to 'speak the truth laughing.' And
the best moralists have acknowledged that laughter, when
aimed at folly, was a salutary means of improvement, and
a great aid to virtue. Indeed we have the precedent of In-
spiration itself, to use the most pointed satire in our at-
tempts to promote the Welfare of our fellows. And this
was her only aim; for, whether she depicted the verbosity
of the self-sufficient preacher, or portrayed the vulgar cc-
queteries of the inconsolable widow-.whether s~e held up
to view the would-be literary circle, or narrated the gossip
of the sewing-society, her only object was
To seo4hemsels as others see 'em!
Which wad frae manic a blunder free 'em,
~&amp;~1 foolish notion."'
Such, then, was the origin of the "Bedott Papers," their
charaeteristics and their aim. By the early death of their
wonderfully gifted author, they have become a literary
hrt~ge to her family, and the publication has been decided
upoxi by th~, aft.z~ opted solicitatIons from both

strangers and friends, who were anxious, to have in &amp; cob
elected and accessible form articles they had enjoyed so much
as fugitive sketches. For ourselves, we have never' had but
one opinion. We remember, as if had been but yesterday,
the mirth-moved family circle that listened to the reading
of the first of the series with almost convulsive laughter;
and from that time until we corrected the proof-sheets of
the last, considered th~m among the cleverest, as they cer-
tainly were the most popular of any humorous articles by
an American author.
Though among Mrs. ~ warmest personal friends,
we never had the often desired pleasure of meeting her face to
face. Yet it is through a correspondence bequeathed to us,
as the successOr to Mr. Neal's editorial engagements, and
some of his most genial friendships, that the sister before
alluded to, gathered much of the material for a sketch of her
life and character.
Never was there a more remarkable contrast presented,
and we quote her own words, for the causes operating 'to
produce it.
"Your last kind letter was vJy gratifying. The acquisi-
tion of a new friend is a source of great pleasure to me; for
I assure you that it has never been my lot to have many
friends. And I will tell you what I believe to be the secret
of it: I received at my birth, the undesirable gift of a re..
niarkably strong sense of the ridiculous. I can scarcely
remember the time when th~ neighbors were not afraid that
* MI.. BdlTy was s;b.qu~ly wrIs~I to 3.v. D~ W. Wblol~4ot
WhIt.sbor.', ~L T.
.4

(


N

xiv

INTRODUCTORY.

I would 'make fun of them.' For indulging in this proven
sity, I was scolded at home, and wept over and prayed wfth,
by certain well-n~ieaning old maids in the neighborhood; but
all to no purpose. The only reward of their labors was
frequently their likenesses drawn in charcoal and pinned to
the corners of their shawls, with, perhaps, a descriptive
verse below. Of course I had not many friends, even
among my ow playmates. And yet, at the bottom of all
this deviltry, there was a warm, affectionate heart-if any
were really kind to me, how I loved them!
"I think new, that I was not properly trained, My
errors should have been checked in a different way from
that which was adopted. I ought to have received more
tender treatment. I became a lonely child, almost without
companionship; wandering alone, for hours, in the woods
and fields, creating for myself an ideal world, and in that
ideal world I lived for many years. At times I was melan-
choly almost to despair. My reserve and sadness were
called haughtiness and pride. When the best 'part of my
life, or rather what should have been the best part of it,
was gone, I met my husband. He was the first who pene
treated the icy vail about me, sympathized with me, and
turned my feet into~ a better path than they had trodden
before."
A modest, li~ou~ble-hearted Christian woman. "at the bot
tom of all this," as she says, she remained until her pen
was laid aside for the last time, and she passed to a home
where all doubt and misunderstanding are denied an en-
trance.

INTRODUCTORY.

xv

4.
"how she looked, spoke and moved," those who read
these sketches will doubtless ask, as did we, at an early
period of the correspondence. It was met by her 'with a
playful rhymed response, of which we can recall but a frag-
ment, declaring~ she had
I' Hands and feet
Of respectable size,
Afud-colored hair,
And dubious eyes."
To the last, she evaded any thing lil~e the self-portraiture s~
common among a certain class of female writers, who are as
willing to give their faces as their sketches to the public~.
Since this would still seem to be the feeling of those most
easily interested, we pass to the peculiar artistic cleverness
of the original illustrations, which usually accompanied her
"Table Talks." They were done as rapidly as her pencil
could move, a few strokes "telling the whole story." 'Of
the rise and progress of this. remarkable talent, we have
~some characteristic anecdotes in Miss Berry's sketch of her
sister's childhood.
"Her school education was more varied 1~han beneficial.
fler first teacher was a sour-faced woman, who knocked the
alphabet with her thimble into the heads of a little group of
unruly children, at so much 'a quartet' with small love,
and no just appreciation of the dawning minds under her
care. It was the unwise and cruel practice, then more gen-
erally than at present, though still not quite exploded, of
sending little creatures, only four or five years old, to be
shut up in a school-room six hours of each day.


:z:vi    INTRODUCTORY.                          INTRODUCTORY.      :vu

"But there was one good custom, then, which, where our
limited observation extends, seems to be quite unthought of,
if not despised, in the present girls' schools-that of teach-
ing the pupils to sew. The object now appears to be to in
struct them most in what they shall least need to know
afterward. Well, little Miriam was 'told by her teacher to
bring some kind of work to busy herself with in school;
so, being furnished with a long narrow strip of old, muslin,
she went. prepared to take her first lesson in the art of
scollopingg." How steadily the small hands stitched away,
till the child was summoned by her serious-faced teacher to
the table, to have her work inspected. What was Miss
-'s amazement on discovering that 'Miriam had adhered
but a very little way to her pattern, when, leaving it entire.
ly, she had worked a long row of keack on the muslin, after
a stitch of her own choosing.
"'What a pity,' said tPe careful woman who spoke with
a strong nasal accent, 'to waste all that 'ere nice muslin!
Jest take it home, and fetch some old stuff to-morrow; and
work it good, too. Don't make any more of them heads.'
"But Miriam had a piec of ran-new muslin given to her,
at home, when ~he repeat~dh~r teacher's orders, with the
permission to make as m\n/ beads orilt as she pleased.
Whether this act of high-han4ed rebellion was continued, we
know not; for, in telling the story, as we have heard her dos,
with many amusing accessories, she proceeded no further.
This little Incident, it would seem, was the most deeply~ im-
pressed upon her memory of any thing connected with her
first school-teacher.

4
I

"A second time was little Miriam introduced within the
walls of the academy, but under a new and quite different
dynasty. The principal was the kindest hearted and most
indulgent of pedagogues, well skilled in mathematics and
learned in all classic lore; greatly successful, moreover, in
'fitting young men for college,' as the phrase goes. But
~the younger fry were left to take' care of themselves, or at
most received a kind of desultory instruction from some
older pupil, while their misbehavior wasjdndly overlooked
by the classical master. Lightly passed her school-days
now, but her education, in the true sense 6f the word was
advancing. Within the school-house walls, the child's al-
reaV observant mind and keen perception of the ludicrous
found occupation and food in watching the countenances and
conduct of those who surrounded her ;,while her lonely
rambles abroad taught her much that your thorough-faced
pedagogue utterly ignores.
"Her slate did not always present the sums in addition
duly set, which it ought. The stiff, allowed locks and long-
nosed visages of the serious matter-of-fact young men, in-
tently poring over their Virgils and Latin grammars, on
the opposite side 'of the room, were often transt'errod by
her pencil to its surface. She could no ore keep froni
drawing a striking or peculiar set of features, than she could
stop her heart's beating; but sh&amp; had no thought of giving
pain, and ~was unwilling to have her pictures seen. Some-
times a mischievous companion, possessing herse~If of one,
would display it. If the unfortunate subject had the happy
faculty of taking a joke, he passed it oft' with a laugh. But

xvi

xvii


I

I~TIIODU CTO~Y.

a matter-of-fact, ~shy, sensitive youth regarded Miriam after~
ward with insuperable dread. We well remember one
who, finding himself graphically set forth with the quite
imaginary addition of a parasol over his head, and bows,
'with floating ends on his coat skirts, left school in dismay,
and did not again attend.
"Her copy-book presented an appearance very unlike
those of' her school-mates. She followed no formally set
copy, but wrote little poems which had struck her. fl~ncy in
reading, interspersed with an occasional verse of her own,
the margins being adorned with heads and various devices,
something after the ancient fashion, modernly revived, of
embellishing books.
"In the art of drawing she never, had a master, the only
instruction she received being a few hints from a relative
gifted with a like talent. The itinerant professors of paint-
ing and kindred accomplishments who stopped at times, in
her native village, were incapable 0f improving such an en-
dowment as hers. Their chefs-d'oeuvres on velvet, their red
and green birds, and extraordinary. 'flow~r-pieces' done by
theoren~s, their impossible Scripture scenes, gave her infinite
amusement. She should have studied with a true a*ist,
but no such opportunity presented itself-a subject of deep
regret tQ her in after' years, as therein she believed the
proper development of her powers could have been fo "
Such was the erratic training and chance development of
rare-indeed almost unprecedented-original talent; for
what humorist has ever so clearly illustrated his own
sketches of life and character. The very expression of the

I

INTRODUCTORY.                    xI~
Widow's nose and the Elder's spectacles, '~re a promise to
the mirth-loving reader o~ good things at hand* and we
leave them with the assurance that the promise will more
than be fulfilled.
A.B.N.

xviii


I'
I
ft                           WIDOW       BEDOT~I
I.
TIE was a wonderful hand
was, 'specially after he 1
health. He made an ~bservati
in one of his poor turns, that I:
longest day I live. He says to
as we was a s~ttin' by the fire, I
always a wonderful great kn
sinokin' (he was a master hand
doetor~iised to1 tell him he 'd
tobacker alone; when he was ~
pipe-and smoke a spell after he'
up, and when 'he wasn't well, us
gest part o' the time). Well, he
his mouth and turned toward m~
thing was coxnin', for he had
looking' round when he was gw
uncommon. Well, he says, to

0
~ PAPERS.
~o moralize, husband
begun to enjoy poor
on once when he was
never shall forget the
me one winter evening'
was a knittin' (I was
itter) and he was a
to smoke, though the
be better off to let
well, used to take his
d got the chores done
ed to smoke the big.
took his ripe out of
; and I knowed some-
a pertikkeler way of
me to say any thing
me, says he, "Silly,"


]IEZEKIAH BEDOTT.    23

22     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

(my 'name was Prissilly naturally, bu{ he generally
called me " Silly," cause 'twas handier, you know.)
Well, he says to me, says he, "Silly," and he looked
4       pretty sollem, I tell you, he had a sollern countenance
natera1ly.-~and after he got to .be deacon 'twas more
so, but since he 'd lost his health he looked sollemer
than ever,~ and certainly you wouldn't wonder at it if
you knowed how much he underwent. He was
troubled with a' wonderful* pain in his chest, and
amazing' weakness in the spine of his back, besides the
pleurissy in the side, and having the ager a consider-
able part of the time, and bein' broke of his rest
o' nights 'cause he was so put to 't for breath when he
laid down. 'Why its an onacc~untable fact that when
that man died he hadent seen a' well day in fifteen
year, though when he was married and for five or six
year after I shouldn't desire to see a ruggeder man
*       Than what he was. But the time I 'm speaking' of he'd
* been' out o' health nigh upon ten year, and 0 deai~
sakes! 'how he had altered since the first time III ever
see him! That was to quilting' to Squire Smith's a
spell afore Sally was ma ned.' IL 'd no idee then that Sal
Smith was a gwine to be married to Sam Pendergrass.
Se 'd ben keeping' company with Mose Hewlitt, for
better 'n a year, and every body said that was a settled
thing, and lo and behold! all of a scudding she up
and took Sam Pendergrass. Well, that was the
first time I ever see my husband, and if any body 'd

a told me then that I should ever marry him,
I should a said-but lawful sakes! I most forgot, I
was gwine to tell you what he said to me that evening ,
and when a body begins to tell a thing I believe in
finishing' on 't some time or other. Some folks have a
way of talking' round and round and round for ever-
more, and never comm' to the pint. Now there 's
Miss Jinkins, she that was Poll Bingham afore she was
married, she is~the tejusest individooal to tell a story
that ever I see in all my born days. But I was a
gwine to tell you what husband said. He says to me
says he, "Siliy," says I, "Whgt?" I didn't say
"What; Hezekier ?" for I didn't like his name. The
first time I ever heard it I near killed myself a laffin.
"Hezekier Bedott," says I, "well, IL would give up if
I had sich a name," but then you know I had no more
idee o' marrying' the feller than you have this minnit
o' marrying' the governor. I s'pose you think it 's
.cui~us we should a named our oldest son Hezekier.
Well, we done it to please father and mother Bedott,
it 's father Bedott's name, and he and mother Bedoi±
both used to think that names had ought to go down
from gi~aer~tion to generation. But we always called
him you know. Speaking' o' Kier, he is a bless-
in', ain't he? and I ain't the only one that thinks~ so,
I guess. Now don't you never tell nobody that I said
so, 'but between you and me I rather guess that if
Kezier Winkle thinks she is a gwine to ketch Kier

I

t
i


'4
'It                                                             )4
24       WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
Bedott she is a leetle out of' her reckoning . But I was
going to tell what husband said. He says to me, says
he, "Silly," I says, says I," What?" If II didn't say
"what" when he said "Silly," he 'd a kept on saying
''I          "Silly," from time to eternity. -He always did, be~
cause,~ you know, he wanted me to pay pertikkeler
attention, and IL generally did; no woman was ever
more attentive to her husband than what I was.
Well, he says to me, says he, "Sjlly." Says I,
"What?" though I 'd no idee what he was gwine to
say, dident know but what 'twas something about his
sti.fferings, though he wasn't ~pt to complain, but he
frequently used to remark that he wouldn't wish his
worst enemy to, suffer one minnit as he did all the
time, but that can't be called grurablin'-thiuk it can?
Why, I 'ye seen him in sitivations when you 'd a
thought no mortal could a helped grumbling , but he
diden . He and me wetit once in the dead. o' winter
in a one hoss slay out to Boonville to see a sister o'
hisen. You know the snow is amazing' deep in tI~t
section o' the entry. Well, the hoss got stack in
one o' them are flambergasted snow-banks, and there
we sot, enable to stir, and to cap all, while we was a
sitting' there, husband was took with a dretful crick in
his back. Now that was what IL call a perdicicerment,
don't you? Most men would' a swore, but husband
didn't. He only said, says he, "Consarn it." How
did we get out, did you ask? Why we might a been


HEZEKIAH BEU
sitting' there to this day fur as I ki
a happened to come along a
team and they hysted us out. I
)                          A
__________                                            tell you that observation a' hise:
says he, "Silly," (I could see by t
7-,,,,                   ,   j~                  there didn't happen to be no oanc
~! ~l14       r        disremember, though my memory
K        forgitful, but I know we wasn't~ ~
___          K                   exception' when we had company)
K                   lightofthefirethathismind'~was
/   ~,             ized. Says lie to me, says he,
him, says I, "What?". lie 583
"W~'rca1tpqor.crittersI"
2
/           ~/~;    ~                                                   I
4                  (SLY
.*~...
~'k'l1~
~nbi4i~~~
I1pIII~IJI

OTT.           25
iow, if there hadent
a' men in a double
~utIwasgwineto
ci. Says he to me,
he light o'~ the fire,
lIe burning , if I don't
is sometimes rather
~pt to burn candles
I cotLkl see by the
oncommo~i solemn-
"Sill 2' I ~ to
rs to me, say~ he,
.4 ~*
k


*

*

THE WIDOW ESSAYS ?O~TRY.

II.

yrES.-4e was one o' the best men that ever trod
shoedeather husband was, though Miss Jinkins
says (she 'twas Poll Biugham) s1~e says, I never found
it out till after he died, but that 's the consarndest lie
that ever was told, though it 's jest of a piece with
every thing else she says about me. I guess if every
body could see the poetry Iwrit to his memory, no-
body wouldent think I dident set store by him.
Wauttohear it? WellI'll see if I can sayit; it
generally affects me wonderfully, seems to harrier up
my feelings; but IL '11 try.. flident know I ever writ
poetry? how you talk! used to make lots on 't; haint
so much late years. I remember ~once when Parson
Potter had a bee, I sent him an amazing' great cheese,
audi writ a piece 'o' poetry and pasted on top on 't.
Ilsays:
Teach him for to proclaim
Salvation to the folks,
No occasion give for any blame
Nor wicked people's jokes.
And so it goes on, but I guess I won't stop to say the'
rest on 't now, seem' there 's seven and forty verses.

Parson Potter and his wife was wonderfully pleased
with it, used to sing it to the tune o' Haddem. But I
was gwine to tell the one I made in relation to hus.
band, it be~~ as follers:
He never jawed in all his life,
He never was onkind-
And (the' I say it that was his wife)
Sucih men you. seldom find.
(That 's as true as the Scripturs, I never knowed him
to say a harsh word.)
I never changed my single lot.-
I thought 't would be a sin-
(though widder Jinkins says it '5 because I never had
a, chance.) Now 't ain't for me to say whether I ever
had a numerous number o' chances or not, but there's
them livin' that m4ht tell if they was a n4nd to;
why, this poetry was writ on account of being joked
about Major Ooon, three year after husband died. I
guess the generality o' folks knows what was the
nature o' Major Coon's feeling toward me, tho' his
wife 'and Miss Jinkins does ~say I tried to ketch him.,
The fact is, Miss Coon feels wonderfully cut up 'cause
she knows the Major~took her "Jack at a pin6h"-
seem' he couldn't get sucl~ as he wanted, he tooksuch
as he could get-but I goes on to say-.-
I never changed my single lot-.
I thought 'twotdd be a sin-
For I thought so much o' Deacon Bedott
I never got married agin.

27


28     winow BEDOTT PAPERS.

If ever a hasty word he spoke
His anger dident last,
But vanished like tobacker smoke
More the wint'ry blast.
And since it was my lot to be
The wife of such a man,
tell the men that's after me
To ketch me if they can.
If Iwassick a single jot
He balled the doctor in-.
That's a fact-he used to be scairt to death if any thing
ailed me, now only jest think-widder Jinkins told
Sam Penaergrasses wife (she 't was Sally Smith) that
8he guessed the deacon didn't ~et no great store by
me, or he wouldent a went 6ff to conference meeting'
when I was down with the fever. Th~ truth is, they
couldent git along without him no way. Parson Pot-
ter seldom went to conference meeting , and when he
wasn't there, who was ther, pray tell, that knowed
enough to take the lead if husband dident do it?
Deac(on Kenipe hadent no gift, and Deacon Crosby
hadent no inclination, and so it all come on to Deacon
Bedott~-and he was always ready and wiflin' to do
his duty,~ you know; as long as he was able to stand
on his legs he continued~ to go~ to conference meeting;
why, I've knowed that m~n to go when he c6uldent
scarcely crawl on account o' the pain in the spine of
his back. lie had a wonderful gift, and he wasn't a
man to keep )ais talents hid up in a napkin.-so you
see 't was from a sense o' duty he~went when I was.

THE WIDOW ESSAYS POETRY.                      29
sick, whatever Miss Jinkins may say to the contrary.
But where was 1? 0-
If I was sick a single jot
lie called the doctor in-
I sot so much store by Deacon Bedott
I never got married agin.
A wonderful tender heart l~e had
That felt for all mankind-
It made him feel tunazin' bad
To s6e the world so blind.
Whiskey and rum he tasted not-
That 's as true as the Scripturs-but if YOU 'II believe
it, Betsy, Ann Kenipe told my Melissy that Miss Jin-
kins said one 'day to their house how 't she 'd seen
Deacon Bedott high, time and agin! did you ever!
Well, I 'm glad nobody don't pretend to mind, any
thing she says. I 'ye knowed Poll Bingliam from a
gal, and she never knowed how to speak the truth.-.
besides sh~ alwayss had a pertikkeler spite against hus-
band and me, and between us tew, I 'II tell you why
if you won't mention it, for I make it a pint never to
say nothing' to injure nobody. Well, she w~s a ravin-
distracted after my husband herself; but it 's a long
story, I '11 tell you about it some other time, and then
you'll know why wider Jinkins is eternally running'
me. down. See-where had I got to? 0, IL remem-
ber now-
Whiskey and rum he tasted not-
lie thought it was a sin-
I thought so much o' Deacon Bedott
I never got married agin.

4


30    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                                                81
THE WIDOW ESSAYS POETRY.

But now he 's dead! the thought is kuhn'
My grief I can't control-
He never left a single shilhin
His widder to console.
But that wa'n't his fault-he was so out o' health for
a number o' year afore he died, it ain't to be wondered
at he didn't lay up nothin'-.-however it didn't give
him no great oneasiness-he never cared much for
airthly riches, though Miss Pende'rgrass say~ she heard
Miss Jinkins say Deacon Bedott was ~as tight as the
skin 6n his back-begrudged folks their vittals when
they came to his house! did you ever! why he was
the hull-souldest man I ever see in aU my born days.
If I'd such a husband as Bill Jinkins was I 'd hold
my tongue about my neighbors' husbands. He was a
dretful mean man, used to git drunk every day of his
life-and he had an awful high temperZused to
swear like all possess when he got mad-.and I 'ye
heard my husband say-(and he wa'n't a man that
ever said any thing that wa'n't true)-i've heard him
say Bill Jinkins would cheat his own father out of his
eye teeth if lie had a chance. Where was I? 01
"His wider to console"-.-ther ain't but one more
verse, 't ain't a very lengthy poim. When Parson
Potter read it, he says to me, says he-" What did
you stop so soon for ?"--but Miss Jinkins told the
Crosby's she thought I 'd better a stopt afore I 'd begun
p-she 's a purty critter to talk so, I must say. I 'd
like to see some poetry o' hern..-I~ guess it would be

(

astonishing' stuff; and mor 'n all that, she said there
wasn't a word o' truth in the hull on 't-.-said I never
cared tuppence for the deacon. What an everlastin'
lie! I Why-wheu he died, I took it so hard I went
deranged, and took ~n so for a spell they was afraid
they should have to send me to a Lunattic Arsenal
But that 's a painful subject, I won't dwell on 't. I
conclude as follows:
I'll never change my single lot-
I think 't would be a sin-
The inconsolable widder o' Deacon Bedott,
Don't intend to get 4narried agin.
Excuse. my cryin'-my feeling always overcomes me
so when I say that poitry.-O-o-o-o-O-Q I

00

31


WIDOW J]~NKINS' ANIMOSITY.  88

III.
~, YES I I remember I promised to tell you the
'-'7,
cause o wider Jinkinses ennimosity to me---
Melissy, pass the bread~-well, you see, Deacon Bedott
(he wasn't deacon then though) he come-.help herself
to butter, dew-lie come to Wiggletown to teach the
deestrict school. He was originally from the Black
River entry. His father was a forehanded farmer,
and he 'd give Hezekier a complete eddication~he
took to larnin' naturally. Is your tea agreeable? I
s'pose ther wa'n't his equil for cypherin' no wher
round. Well; Squire Smith he was out in them parts,
and he got acquainted with Hezekier, and he see that
he was aii uncommon capable young man, and so he
conducted him to come to Wiggletown and teach school.
~ier,~ pass the cheese to Miss Higgins. Don't never
eat cheeze! dew tell! well, husband couldn't eat cheeze
without impunity dunn' the last years of his life-
used to say that it lay like a stun on his stomick; as
sure as he eat a piece o' cheese for his supper, he 'd
lay awake groanin' all night, if he didn't take some

kind of an antidote to percent it. But I was gwine
to tell-Well, the day after he come to our place,
Scjjuire Smith's folks had a quiltin'-I was there-
't wa'n't long af'ore Sally was married (she 'tis Sam
Pendergrasses wife~-she was a makin' her cpiilts-
though 'twas generally thought she was engaged to
Mose flewlet, and as to that matter, it 's my opinion
she might better a had him than the one she did have.
IL never thought Sam Pendergrass was much-none
o' the Pendergrasses aiui't no great shakes, though
he 's good enough for Sal Smith. Melissy, why don't
you saxve out the sass? That sass ain't ftist-rate---
you see, while 't was a dewin'~' Loviney Skinner, she
come in with that are subscription paper, to git up a
society for "the universal diffusion of elevation among
the colored operationo" and while I was looking' at it
to see w~ho 'd signed and how much they gi'n, the sass
got overdid. But I was gwine to tell about that
quilting . Ther was a number o' young folks there-
see-there was Prissily Poole (that "s me), Poll Bin&amp;
ham (Bill Jinkinses widd~r), Huddy Hewlit (she
married Nat Farntash and both on ~em died to~ the
westard a i~umber o' years ~ and Sally Smith
(Sam Pend~ergrasses wife), and the Peabodys (Jerus
shy married Shadrack Dany-but Betsey ain't mar-
ried yet, though I s'pose if ever any body tried
faithMly to git a husband Bets' Peabody has), and
Nab. Hinksten (she 'tis Major Ooon's wife now),

I


84     WIDOW BEDOTT PirElas.

85~

WIDOW JENKINS' ANIMOSITY.

though then she wa'n't nothmn' but a milliner's ap.
prentice. I remember, I wondered at the Smiths for
inviting' her, but they never was pertikkeier who they
* went with, and she always had a- wonderful way o'
crowdirL' in. See-you heerd, didn't you, how 't she
* said I tried to ketch the Major, but he lookt rather
higher 'n to marry wider Bedott? He must a lookt
consarn-ed high when he took Nab Hinksten! She 's
a purty critter to be a tryin' to disperse my character,
I dew say! I'll let her know 't iDeacon Bedott's
widder ain't a gwine to be put down by the like o' her.
What was she, pray tell, in her young days? I make
it a 1pint never to say nothing' against nobod~r.-....but
truth ain't no slander, think it is? and all creation
knows she wa'n't nobody. Why her father was a
poor drunken !aack away down in Bottletown, and
her mother took in washin', and Nab Hinksten herself
worked out for a half a dollar a week, till Miss Potter
was down there one time a visiting' Parson Potter's re-
lations, and she took pity on her and fetched her up
to Wig~letown to live with her; but after a spell she
got above dewin' housework and went into Miss Dick-
erson s milliner shop, and there she stayed till Zeb
Hawkins married her, and after he died o' delirreum
trimming, she sot tew to ketch somebody else, and at
last she draw'd in Major Coon-he 'd been disappointed
('t ain't for me to say who disappointed him) and so
he didn't care much who ho married: and now she 's

Miss Uiajor Coon / 0, deary me, it 's enough to make
a body sick to see the airs she puts on. Did you see
her come nipping' into meeting' last Sabber day with
that are great long ostridge feather in her bunnit, and
a shawl as big as a bed kiver? But I could put up
with her if she wouldn't slande~~r~better5. She
and Miss Jinkins is wonderful intimit now, though I
remember when Poll Bingham hild her head high
enough above Nab Hinksten, at that quiltin' she
didn't scarcely speak to her. Is your cup out? Ta]Fe
some more bread.-not no morei? why you don't eat
nothing-I 'm afeard you won't make out a supper-
well dew take a piece o' the sweetcake-I ain't sure
about it bein' good, Melissy made it and she 's apt to
git in a leetle tew much molasses-but them nutcakes
I know is good, for I made 'em myself; and I dew
think I make nuteakes about as good as any body
else. Kier's a wonderful favorite o' nutcakes, ain't
you Kier? but his father couldn't eat 'em at all for
a number o' year afore he died-they were tew rich
for his stomick-jest as sure as he eat a nutcake he
used to have a sick spell afterward. But I was a
gwine to tell how Poll Bingham come to take such a
spite against me-well, the beginning ' on 't commenced
at that are quilting . In the evening' you see the young
men -come. There was Hezekier Bedott-Zeb Haw-
kins (he 't was Miss Coon's fttst husband, he got tc~ be1
a worthless critter afore he died); and Shubal Gmen

9

84


86

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

* (he wa~ a wonderful good singer, had an amazing'
powerful voice, used to sing in meeting' and nigh about
raise the ruff o' the
meetin'-house off), and Zophar
Slocum..-he was studying' to be a doctor, he was a
smart young many but dretful humbly: he used to
write the poetry for the ' Wiggleton Banner." He
got. dretfully in love with a young woman once, and
she didn't recipperate his feelins-.'t ain't for me to
tell who the young woman was. I don't approve o'
tellin' such things-.well, he got into such a takin' on
account o' her coldness, that at last he writ her a letter
teflin' of her how 't he couldn't stan such indifference
no longer, and if she continood to use him so, he was
determined to commit self..suiside.-.at the end o' the
letter, he put in a varse o' poitry-.it says-
0, 'tie a dretful thing to be
In such distress and nilseree!
I'm eny most a natteral fool
All on account o' Silly Poole!
There! I 'ye let on who 'twas-~--hain't I? but he
altered his mind about kuhn' himself~ and was married
about three~ months after to Soph~er Jones. Take
another nut-cake---.dew. Why, what ~ small eater
you be! I 'm feared the vittals don't suit you.
Well, less see who else was there. 0, Tim Crane.
He wa~ a wonderful saftly feller-.-dident scarcely
know enough to go in When it rained, though he was
purty sharp atmakin' money. He married Trypheny

WIDOW JENitINS' ANIMOSITY.

87

Kenipe, Deacon Kenipe's sister-they went to the
westward, a~ad I've cheered they'd got to be quite rich.
I guess it must be owin' to Miss Crane's scraping'
and savin', for she was the stingiest of all created
critters. What did you say, Kier? Jim Crane
comm' back here to live? Well, 't won't be no great
addition to Wiggletown, for they ain't~-What!
Kier Bedott? Miss Crane dead! Land o' liberty!
what an awful thing! IDear me! I dew feel amazing'
sorry for Mr. Crane! how onfortinate-! to lose his
wife! such a nice woman as she was, tew! What did
you say, Melissy Bedott! How 't I jest called Miss
Crane a stingy critter? you must a misunderstood me
a purpose! I said she was an uncommon equinomical
woman. I always thought a master sight of Miss
Crane, though I must say she wa'nZt quite good
enough for such a man as Timothy Crane: He 's an
amazin' fine man. I said he dident know nothing?
Kier Bedott, how you dew misunderstand. I meant
that he was a wonderful inoffensive man, well-dis.
posed toward every body. Well, I 'm glad Mr.
Crane 's a comm' back here; should think 't would be
melancholy to stay there after burying' his pardner.
His poor motherless darters, tew! I feel for them. It's
a dretful thing for galls to be left without a mother!
Melissy, what be you winkin' to ]~ier for? Don't you
know it 's very unproper to wink? Kier, did Deacon
Kenipe say what complaint Miss Crane died of? The

t


38     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

eperdemic! how 'you talk! that 's a tin'rible disease I
I remember it prevailed in our place wheii I was quite
young-a number o' individuals died on 't I don't
wonder Mr. Crane wants to git away from the west-
ard, it must be very o4leasant to stay to a place
where his companion was tore away from him by such
an aggravating' complaint as the eperdemic. Won't
you be helped to nothing more ?-O, sure enough-4
was goin' to tell how Poll Bingham came to be such
an ininiy o' mine-now I should n't wonder if she
should set tew and try tew ketch Mr. Crane when he
comes back, should you? I '11 bet forty great apples
she 'II dew it, she 's been ravin' distracted to git married
ever since she .wa~ a bidder, but I rather guess Timo-
thy Crane ain't a man to be took in by such a great
fat, humbly, slandering' old butter tub. She 's as gray
as a rat, tew, that are hair, o' hem 's false. I 'm gray
tew. I guess you haint told no news now, Melissy
Bedott. I know I'm rutlier gray, but it's owin' to
sickness and trouble. I had n't a gray hair in my head
when yer par died. 'I ain't as old as wider Jinkins,
by a number o' year. I think 't would be a good
idear for some friendly person to warn Mr. Crane
against Poll Jinkins as soon as he gits here, don't. you?
I d~w feel for Mr. Crane. Kier, I wish you 'd invite
him to step in when you see him, I want to converse
with him, I feel to sympathize with him in his alflic.
five dispensation. I' know what 'tis to lose a pardner.

IV.
IITAIIK in! Why Mr. Crane how dew you dew?
WV
I 'm despot glad to see you.-~-amazifl' glad.
Kier told me you '4 arriv' several days ago, and I've
been suspecting' you in every day sence. Take a cheer
and set down~ffeW-WhY Mr. Crane, you hold yer
own wonderfully, don't grow old a speck as I see.
Think I've altered much? Don't, hay? Well, Mr.
Crane, we 'ye both on us had trouble enough to make
us look old. Excuse my cryin', Mr. Crane. IL 'ye
ben dretfully exercised ever sence IL heerd o' your
affliction. 0! Mr. Crane! what poor shortsighted
critters we be! can't calkilate with any degree o' sam-
tinty what 's a gwine to happen. Parson Potter used
to say 't was well we did n't 'know the futur, cause
wouldd have an attendency to onfit us for dewin' our
duty; and so 't would-if you and I 'd a knowed
when you went away fifteen year a~go, what we 'd got
to undergo, 't would a nigh about killed us, would n't
it? 0! Mr. Crane! Mr. Crane I Creation has dealt
purty hard with us sence we parted I Then, you had


40     WIDOW BEDOTT rArERS.                                                    41.

MB. CRAI~E WALKS~ IN.

a wife-an uncommon likely woman she was tew-.
and I was blest with one o' the best o' men for a
]~usband-now, I 'm a widder~ and you're a wid-
dyiver. But our loss is their gain~-at least I 'm sartin
my loss is Deacon Bedott's gain. 0! Mr. Crane, how
that man did sufThr for a number o' year afore he died;
but he was the resignedest critter I ever did see-
never grumbled a grain. Parson Potter used to say
t was to eddification to come to see him, and hear him
converse. He felt wonderful bad about your bein'
gone to the westward, Mr. Crane. He used to frequent.
ly remark, that he 'd giv more to see Mr. Crane than*
ary individdyival he knowed on. He sot a great deal
by you-and so did I by Miss Crane. We both on
us felt as if we could n't he reconciled to you~livin'
away off there-it seemed if we could n't have it so
116 way. It's a dretful pity you went there, Mr.
Crane. Mabby if you had n't a ~went, yer pardner
would n't a died-but what 's did can't be ondid, it 's
all for the best. I was ttLrribly overcome when I
heerd o' her death--fainted away, and 't was quite a
spefi afore I ' come tew. That 's a bad 'clymit, Mr.
Cran~it must be a bad clyinit, or the eperdemic, and
fever ager wouldn't prevail so there. 'A few year afor
husband died, he had quite a nOtion to go to the west-
ard. He heerd how well you was a dewin'.-.and then
there was Samson Bedott, his cousin (he married Hep.
sy Gifford,.you know), 4e went~ some where to the west~

(
I

ard-and after he'd ben there a spell, he writ my hus-
band a letter, urgin' of him to come out there, he said
to be sure the clymit was rather tryin' at fast-but then
after you 'd got used to 't, you 'd be ruggeder 'n ever
you, was afore-and it w~ such a wonderful entry
for agricultifer to grow-~aid 't wasn't nigh so mount-
anious as the eastard-the yomandery didn't have to
labor no wher nigh so hard as what they did here-
just plant your produce and that was the eend on't-
't would take care of itself till 't was time to git it in.
Well, 'husband was quite fierce to go-and if it had. n't
a ben for me, he would, a went, but I wouldn't hear
to 't at all. I says to him, says I, "'T wont dew for
you to go there, no how-Samson, himself; owns it 's
a tryin' clymit-.--and if it 's? tryin' for well hearty folks,
how do you 'spose you 'd stan' it? you enjoy poor
enough health here, and if you was to go. there you'd
enjoy woss yet, what 's agricultifer compared to
health?" I was a great deal more consarned. fo:r hus-
band. than what I was for myself;) Mr. Crane-be sure
it's a woman's duty to feel s~,but seems to me I felt
it uncommonly. And. no wonder, for my husband
was a treshur. 0! Mr. Crane, when I lost him I lost
all. And that's what makes me feel to sympathize
with you as I dew, Mr. Crane. Our sittywations are
so mt~ch alike. I 'spose you feel as if your loss
couldn't never be made up to you, don't you? That's.
j~st how I felt.~ Now there's Major Coon, and Mr.

4

40

41


42       winow    BEDOTT PAPERS.
Gifford, and Squire Perce, and Cappen Canoot, and
old uncle Dawson (he 's old but he 's quite rich), why,
nary one o' them would n't a filled Deacon Bedott's
place to me. 'T ain't for me to say they 'ye all wanted
me-ahem..-~but s'posen they should, you know.
Whenever my friends begin) to talk to me about
changing' my condition, I always tell 'em it's a ~sk-.
and so 'tis Mr. Crane-it 's a terrible resk to take a
second pardner.-.without its an individdyival you
know 'd when you was young.-.-that makes a difference
~-..'t ain't so resky tli en. But after all, Mr. Crane.-.-.it '~
a tryin' thing to be without a companionz..ain't it?
And then there 's the responsibilitude and bringing
up the children~widders complains most o' that.
But there 's a wonderful difference in folks about that.
Now 't wasn't no great chore for me to bring up my
children. Parson P&amp;tter's wife frequently used to
say (she had quite a large family, you know), she used
to say tome, "Miss Bedott I 'd giv eny, most eny
thing if I had such a faculty for managing' children
as you 'ye got, and for dewin' as well by 'em as what
you do." Ther ~ an amazing' difference in wimmin-.
now ther 's the wider Jinkins-she 'twas Poll Bing-
ham-'-.-see~you knowd ]~'oll Biugham when she was
a gal, did n't you? Very nice gal did you say 1!!
Why Mr. Crane, how forgetful your memory is!* But
I don't know as she was so much woss than some other
gals I 'ye knowd. A body can't tell what sort of a

4

MR. CRANE WALKS i~.     4$

woman a gal. wilt make afore she 's married-they
don't always show out, you know. But I make it a
pint never to say' nothing against nobody-*i~nd I am
sure I don't wish Miss Jinkins no harm-for all she 's
did so much to injure me. I was only gwine to speak
o' her way o' bringing' up her children. 'Tis astonish-
in' how that critter has managed with them young
ones I She 's the miserablest hand I ever did see in
all my born days. Why them little plagues was in
the streets from morning' till night-Bill and Sam a
swearin' and throwing' stuns-and Alviry a racin' and
romping' and bothermn' The neighbors. they 'ye got
bigger now and ain't quite so troublesome, though
they 're bad enough yet-but that ain't to be wondered
at-for Miss Jinkins has so much gaddin' to dew ~he
hain't no time to tend to her family. But if that was
all ther was against her 't wouldn't be so bad. How-
ever-~--I don't want to talk about her-truth ain't to
be spoken at all times you know-but I will say I
should pity any decent man that got her for a wife-
'specially if he had children. Speaking' o' children-
you must feel Miss Crane's loss dretfufly in takin' care
o' yourn. It 's an awful task for a man to manage
gals, Mr. Crane-and you 'ye got four on 'em-
Mirandy and Seliny is putty well growd up-but then
them tew little ones-see-what 's ther names? 0,
yes-Liddy and Sary Ann. What putty little critters
they be though! I noticed them in meeting' a Sabber-


44     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                                                     45

day--.O Mr. Crane! when I looked at them poor little
darlin's.-.--.a setting' there all in inournin'-and thought
about 'their motherless sittywation-.---J felt as if I
should a bust right out a cryin'! I had to hold my
handkerchief afore my face. 0 Mr. Crane! I dew
feel for them childi~en! It 's so onfortinate to be left
without a mother !-jest at th~ir age tew-when. they
have so much vivacitude and animosity, and need a
mother's care for to train 'em rightly. 0 Mr. Crane I
it 's terrible! terrible! What would Melissy a did if
it had a ben me that died instid of her par? She
wasn't but ten year old, just about the age o' them
little cherubims o' yourn. My hl4sband was an on~
common gifted man-and a wondQrful kind father-
but he would n't a did by Melissy as I have-he
would n't a knowed how to expend her mind and de-
vilup her understanding' as I have-but I 'ye got a
natteral tack. Melissy 's a credit to me, Mr. Crane-
tho' it 's me that says so, she 's eny most as good a
housekeeper as what I be, but 't ain't for me to boast
-I've been indefategable in train' of her. I 'rn Sorry
she hain't to hum to~night----she and Kier 's gone to
singing' school. Yes.-it 's an onfortinate thing for
gals to be left without a mother. It was dretful Miss
Crane 's bein' took away-.so budding tew-I feel so
distrest a your moloncoily sittywation I can't
scarcely sleep o' nights. I 'ye jest begun a piece o
poetry desoribin' you feelings. I'll read you what I 'ye

44

I

~R. CRANE WALKS IN.

got writ if you're a mind to hear it, tho' it ain't only
jest begun. I call it-
MR. CRANE'S LAMENTATIONS ON TH~ DEATH 01' HIS
COMPANION.
Trypb '~y Crane! Trypheny Crane!
And ~ha~n't we never meet no more?
My buzzom heaves with terrible pain
While I thy ontimely loss deplore.
I used to frequently grumble at my fate
And be afeerd I was a gwine to suffer sorrer-
But since you died my trouble is so great
I hain't got no occasion for to border.
The birds is singing' in the trees,
The flowers is blown' on the plain,
But they haiu't got no power to please
Without my dear Trypheny Crane.
I can't submit to 't though I must,
It is a dretful blow,
My heart is ready for to bust-.
I shall give up I know.
And though ondoubtedly my loss
Is my dear parduer's gain,
I can't be reconciled, because
I've lost Trypheny Crane.
When I git all writ I'll giv it to you if' you want
it. I calkilate to have it considerable longer-I al-
ways aim to have my poims long enough to pay folks
for the trouble o' read~n of 'em. What! must you
go? Well dew come in agin-come often-rye been
quite~ gratified hearing of you talk-you've been away
so long. Now dew be neighborly-and dew tell Mi-

45


46     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

randy and Seliny to come and see Melissy-and Lid.       -
dy and Sary Anm.-dew let them come over. I'm
very fond o' children-very indeed-and I feel so
much for them are tew dear little motherless critters.~
Well-good night, Mr. Crane!                                                         V.
OOD evening , Betsy-(Mr. (
Mr. Crane to hum? Is h(
*                                                                         the setting' room, hey?  Ain't vei
you talk! Well, I want to see]
guess I'll jest step in the kitchen f~
I 'd no idee 'twas so sloppy or I'
shoes-.-seems to me you 're got y
wonderful hot-O, stein yer p
been makin some pies to..day, tew.
purty hard time here, Betsy. Mr.
a very fine man-a very fine mar
as if he had a wife-now every t
kelp, you see-the gals is nice gal
but they hain't no experience-ne
know-and taintt natural to s'poi
right hold and dew, as soon as th
sems rather hard to ~ee~.so much
gal like you. On your account I
a wife, 't would be so much easier
he got a good experienced worn
r

V
~%V
I
~rane's "help.")-Ts
~ in the kitchen? in
.~ well? why how
Liim a minnit,~ but I
ist and dry my feet.
4 a wore my over*
~r kitchen heated up
unkin, hey? I 'ye
You must have a
Crane 's a fine man,
t, indeed-but taintt
hing comes on his
~-amazin' nice gals
wer had no care you
~e they could take
~r mar died. But it
come onto a young
wish Mr. Crane had
fof'you.-.that is if
~n o' biziness-that
I


48

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

had brung up a family of her own-don't you think
80 ?-Well, my feet's got. purty well dry-I guess I'll
step into the setting' room and see Mr. Crane-I've got.
an arrant tew him. How d' you dew, Mr. Crane?
I'm dretful sorry to hear you ain't well, I wasn't a
comin' in-but Betsy said you was undisposed-and I
was unwiflin' to make you egspose herself by comm'
to the door-so I thotight I 'djest step in where you was
-hope I don't intrude-I jest run over to fetch that
are poetry I've ben writer for you-I would a gin it
to yer darters-they called in for Melissy to go to sing.
in' school-but' I was afeard they'd lose it afore they
got hum-young gals is kerless, you know. Here
'tis-'tain't so long as I meant to have,, arter all-only
nine and forty varses-but I 'ye had company-sister
Magwire (she 'twas Melissy Poole, you .know-7--my
youngest sister, the one nay Melissy was named arter)
sjae's ben to see me, and stayed a week, and when a
body has company it kind o' flustrates a body's idees,
you know. And then, tew, sister Magwire don't take
no interest in no such thing. She 's a very clever wo-
man, Melissy is, but she ain't a bit like me-hain't no
genyus'-no more haiu't sister Harrinton-why they
don't nary one on ~em take no more sense o' poetry
than that are stove If I had a let on to sister Ma&amp;-
wire what I was a within', she 'd a tried to stop me-
/
had to work at it o' nights arter she 'd went to bed--
and that 's the reason why I hain't~ finished It afore

DISCOURSES OF PUMPKINS.            49
Sister Magwire's a smart woman, tew in her way-but
it 's a different kind o' smart from mine. I think her
bein' married to such a man has exacted an onfav-
orable attendency on her. Mr. Magwire 's a stiddy,
well-meanin' ~nan-and has got along amazing' pros~
porous in the world-but he has dretful curus notions.
Why, when I writ that affection' ~1legory t~o the memo-
ry o' my husband, as true as I live, Mr. Crane, broth.
er Magwire laffeci about it right to my face I-said
'twas enough to make the deacon groan under ground
-did you ever! I felt dretftd hurt about it, but I
never laid it up agin him, 'cause I know'd he didn't
know no better. But I dew feel wond~rfu1 consarned
about yer health, Mr. Crane. What seem~~ to be the
matter with you? Pain in yer chist! 0! that's tur.
rible !-it always scares The to ~leath to hear of any
body's havin' a pain in ther chist. Why that very
thing was the beginning' 0' my husband's sickness, that
finally terminated in his expiration. It ought to be
tended tew right oIf Mr. Crane, right off. When
husband fust had it, 'twant very bad, and he dident
pay no tention to 't-next time 'twas brother woss, and
I wanted him to send for the doctor, but he wouldeut
..-he was always amazingly opposed, to physicianers.
Wefl~ the next time he was attacked 'twas dretful bad
-.~.he had to lay by-still all I could dew I couldent
conduce him to have a doctor. Well it went onzo
for three day0. I done all I could for him, but it
S


50     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

DISCOURSES O~ PUMPKINS.    51

didn't do a smite o' good-he kept a gittin' woss and
woss, and the third day he was so distress it did seem as
if every breath he d.raw'd would be the death on him.
Jest then old mother Pike come in-she was quite a
doctor, you know-and she said he must take skoke
berries and rum right off~-ther wasn't nothing' like it
for pain in the chist-she always kep it in the house
.~-so she goes right hum and fetches over a bottle on't
and gin husband a wine glass full. She said he must
begin with a purty stiff dqse, ~cause he 'd let it run on
so long-axterward a gret spunful night and morning'
would be enough. Well, 'tis astonishing' how soon
my husband experienced relief Arter that he always
took it as long as he lived, and I d~w believe it aflivated
his sufferings wonderfully-yes-I hain't a doubt but
what if he 'd a took it afore hi~ disorders seated, that
man 'd a been alive and well to this day. But what 's
did can't be ondid-it 's no use cryin' for spilt miIk~
Now, Mr. Crane~ I dew beseech you, as a friend, to
take skoke berries and rum afore it 's' tew late. Tern.
prance ma; hey? So be I, tew; and you don't
s'po~e, dew you, Mr. Crane, that I 'd advise you to take
anything that would intosticate you? I 'd die afore
I'd dew it. I think tew much o' my repertation and
y6urn tew, to do such a thing. But it is the harrniess
est stuft' a body can take. You see the skoke berries
counterects the alkyhall in the rum, and annyliates
all its intosticatin' qualities. We je8t put the ruin on

to make it keep. You know skoke berries can't be
got in the winter time, so if you want to preserve
'em for winters, you 'ye got to put some sort o' spirits
tew 'em so~ 's they won't spyl9. So don't you be none
afeard to take it, Mr. CraLe. I 'II send you some
when I go hum-I always keeps it on hand-and
you be faithful and take a great spunful night and
mornin'-and if you ain't the better for 't afore long-
then I 'in out o' my calkilation-that 's all. You must
feel yer loss commonly when ~you ain't well, Mr.
Crane. If ever a departed companion 's missed-
seems to me it must be when the afflicted survived's
sick-'8pecially if its a widiwer that's lost his wife.
How awful lonesome you must be here al~ne, when
the children 's in bed and the gals has gun off-as I
s'pose they frequently dew when evening' comes-and I
don't blame them for 't as I know on-its natural for
young folks to like to go. How dre~fzd lonesome you
must be. Now some men wouldent mind it~ so much
-they 'd go abroad and divert ther minds-but you
ain't a man to go to taverns and shops and such like
places to begwile the time-you're a man that 's above
such' things, Mr. Crane-and that 's wlaat makes it so
aggrevative for you to ~be without a pardner. I went
into the kitchen to dry my feet as I came in-and 0,
Mr. Crane! I never did experience such moloneolly
sensations in my life as I did when I see how things
went on there.-.'twas plain to be seen ther want no

4

51


52

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

lhead in the kitchenary dopartmenv-and when 'tain't
well managed there-I tell you what, Mr. Crane-.-.
't won't be long afore it 'II be out o' kilter every where.
Now Betsey Pringle's a clever enough gal fur as I
know---but she 's young and onstiddy, and wants
looking' tew every minnit. *She lived to Sam Pender~
grasses a spell-and Miss Pendergrass told me how't
Botsey could dew-but she wanted somebody to her
heels t' overlook her all the time-she was such a
korless critter-said she couldn't git along with her
no way. Now If Sam Pendergrasses wife couldent
stan' it with Betsey, it 's a mystery to me how tow
young gals like yourn is a gwine to git along with her.
They hadn't never had no care, and 't ain't to be suspect-
ed they should know how to manage-'t would be
cruel to require it on 'em. It needs an experienced
woman-and one that takes an interest in things, to
keep house right. Thor was one thing hurt my feel-
ins amazingly when I was in the kitchen---Betsey was
a stewin' punkins for pies-I knowd in a minnit by*
the smell, that the critter was a burning on't up. I
client say nothin-thought mabby she 'd be put out
if I did, cause. I ain't mistress here-but I couldent
scercely hold in. I '11 be bound, Mr. Crane, you won't
have a punkin pie fit t' eat all winter long-and it
makes me feel bad to think on 't-for I make gret ac-
count o' punkins in winter time-don't you? Speak-
in o' punkins reminds me of a trick Miss Jinkins

DISCOURSES OF FUMP~INS.

58

carved me once (she 't was Poll Bingham)-I never see
a punkin without thinking' on 't---and its tow good to
~eep-tliough I don't want to say nothing' to injure
Miss Jinkins. 'T was tow year ago this fall-some.
how or other our punkins didn't dew well that year.
Kjer said he didn't know whether the seed was poor,
or what 'twas-any how, our punkins didn't come to
nothing' at all-had to make all my punkin pies out o'
squashes-and them ain't no wher nigh as goo~l as pun-
kins. Well, one day I see Sam and Bill Jinkin~ go
by with a load o' punkins-so I says to Mellissy, says
I, "I moan to jest run over and see if Miss Jinkins
won't let me have one o' her punkii~s,"-the sight on
'em fairly ~akes my mouth water. So I throws on
my shaWl and goes over-though I very seldom axed
any favors o' her-notwithstandin' she was eternally
borrerin' o' m&amp;-why thor want scarcely a day past
but what she sent to border ~somethin or otWer-a loaf
o' bread-or a drawing' o' tea-or a little molasses or a
little sugar, or what not-and what 's more-she wasn't
wonderful pertickler about payin'-~--and it 's a sollem
fact-the times that critter has had my bake pans and
my flats and my wash board, ain't to be numbered. I
make it a pint never to border when I can help it.
Ther is times to be sure-when the best o' housel~eep-
ers is put to 't and obliged to ax favors o' thor nabors
-but as for borrerin' every day-week in and week
out, as the wider Jinkins~ does-thor ain't no need

I

S

II

I


WIDOW B~DOTT PAPERS.                          DISCOURSES OF PUMPKINS.  55

on 't-but ~he can't stay to hum long enough to keep
things in -any kind o' decent order. But I was gwine
to tell how she saved me about the punkin. Well-
IL goes over-and IL says, says IL, "Miss Jinkins, IL see
you're a gittin' in yer punkins-and I want to know
whether\or no you can't spare me one-~ourn's failed,
you know." "Well," says she, "we hadn't got more
'n enough for our own use-but seem' it's you, IL guess I
will let you have one." So she went and fetched in
one-quite a small one 't was. "What 's the price on 't.
says IL (I dident s'pose she 'd tak any thing, for IL 'd gin
her a mess o' turnips a few days afore-but IL thought
I'd offer to pay). - "Wha1~ 's the price on 't ?" says IL.
"0 nothing' at all," says she. "Lawful sakes 1" says I,
"you don't s'pose I want to beg it, dew you? IL meant
to pay the money down." "You 'd look well," says
she, "a payin' for 't-don't you s'pose I can afford to
giv away a punkin ?-purty story if IL can't I"
"Well," says I, "thank you a thousand times-~--you
must come in to-morrer arter I git my pies made and
help eat some.~~ "Well, mabby I will," says she-so
IL takes my punkin and goes hum mighty pleased.
Well, neit day Melissy and me we cut up the punkin
-'twas dretftil small and wonderful thin-and when
I come to stew it-my gracious! how it did stew
away! The fact is 'twas a miserable 'poor punkin-
good punkins don't stew down to nothing' so. Milessy
she lookt into the pot and says she to me, says she,

1; f

I-

"Granf'ther grievous! why mar I'm afeard this ere
punkin's gwine to exasperate entirely, so ther won't b~
nun left on't." Wel],~ sure enough-arter 'twas sifted
-as true as the world, Mr. Orane-ther want more'n
a pint on't. "Why, mar," Milessy, says she-" 't Wont
make more 'n one good sized pie." "Never you fear,"
says IL-" IL 'II bet forty gret apples I '11 git three pies
out on 't any way." Some folks, you know, puts
eggs in punkin pies, but according' to my way o' think-
in, tain't no addition. When I have plenty o' punkin
IL never use 'em-but Miss Jinkinses punkin turned
out so small, IL see I shouldent have nun to speak on
without IL put in eggs; so IL takes my punkin and IL
stirs in my molasses, and my milk, and my eggs, and
my spices, and IL ifils three of my biggest pie-pans.
"There," says IL to Melissy, "did n't IL say I'd make
three pies, and hadn't IL did it?" "Yes," says she,
"but they 7e purty much all ingrejiences, and precious
little punkin." Well, we got 'em in the oven, and
jest as -IL was gwine to put in the last one, somebody
knockt at the door. Melissy was a ha~ndin' on 't to me,
and she was rather startled, you know, when she
heerd the knock, and she jerked away quite scudding,
and spilt about half the pie out. IL wiped it up as
- quick as IL could, and Melissy she opened the door,
and lo and behold! who should come in but the wid-
der Jinkins! Arter she 'd sot a spell she says, says
she, "Well, Miss Bedott, how did you make out with


68 WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

4
yer pies?" "0, very well," says I. "I'd jest got 'em
in the oven when you come in." I thought, seem' she
gin me the punkin, I wouldn't say nothing' about its
bein' such a miserable one. Mustent find fault in a
gift houses mouth, you know. Well, when my pies
was done I takes 'em and sets 'em on the table.-~
"Them looks nice," says the wider, says she. "They
be nice," says I. I knowed they was nice, for they
had everything in 'em to make 'em nice. So I took
the thin one that Melissy spilt over, and sot it in the
buttery winder to cool, so 's to give Miss Jinkins a piece.
I took that cause I knowd 't would cool sooner'n 1?
others, on account of its bein' thinner. Well, when
my pie was cool, I fetcht it but and sot it afoee Miss
Jinkins, an&amp; I gin her a knife and a fork, and says I,
"Now help yemelf, Miss Jinkins," and I tell you, the
way she helpt herself was a caution. Melissy lookt
as if she was ready to burst out lalfin; I was raly
* afeard she would. Arter she 'd put in about half the
pie, she laid down her knife and fork, and says 'she,
"This ere pie ain't cool enough yet according' to my
way of thinkin'-I never did fancy warm punkin pies,"
So she riz up to go. "0 don't go, Miss Jinkins," says~
I," dew wait a spell 'and I'll set it out door-it 'll cool
there in a few. minnits-you gin me the punkin and I
want you should have yer share o' the pie." "Mercy
o~i us I" says she, "I hope you don't spose I consider
a punkin such a mighty gret gift-I was very glad 0±

3  i

DI5COURS~S OF PUMPKINS.             67
a chance t' obleege you-but it 's time I was hum.-I
guess I won't mind about eaten any more o' that there
pie-I never di~1 fanc4r thin punkin pies-these ere tew '11
be as much as I want." And jest as true as I live
and breathe, the critter actilly took them tew pies and
sot 'em crossways-one a top o' other and marched
off with 'em! When she got to the door she turned
round, and says she-" Now Miss Beaott, whenever
you want any~ little favor, such as a punkin or any
thing else I've got that you hain't got-don't scruple
to ask for 't-~it always affords me the greatest gratifica
tion to dew a nabor a kindness." Arter she ~cl gone, I
lookt at Melissy and Melissy lookt at me in a perfect
state o' dumfounderment! we was so bethunderstruck,
't was as much as five minnits I guess afore ary pne of
us spoke a word. At. last says Melissy says she,
"Did you ever !" "No, never! never 1" says Iand
then we sot up such a tremendous laff that Kier heerd
us (he was work out door), and he came in to see
what was the matter, so I told him-and good gTa-
cious how he did roar! I tell you, he hai.n't never let
me hear the last o' that punkin~-I don't knoW to this
day whether Miss Jirikins knowd I stewed up the hull
o' the punkinto once or not-but I dew raly bleve if
she had a knowd it, 't wouldent a made a speck o' dif.
ference about Aer taken, the pies, for she was always
the very squintessenee o' meanness. Land o' liberty!
Its nine o'clock-I 'd ought to ben hum an hour ago
3*

N


WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

Now, Mr. Crane, I dew hope you 'II take care o' yerself
in season, and take my medicine--I'll send Kier over
with it as soon as I get hum-and mind you take a
gret spunful night and morning' as long as you have
any pain in yer chist-.it 's a wonderful help to 't. And
dew be kerf~d about egsposin herself to the cold air-.
don't go out without rapping ~ up wanm-remember the
equinoxical storms is a comm' on soon, and them's
ciretful bad fo~r invalidders. 0 Mr. Crane, 't would be
an awful thing if you~should be took away! I can't
bear to think on't--excuse my cryin', Mr. Crane-I
can't ]aelp~ it-I dew feel such an interest in yer family
and-I ho you wont think I'm forward, Mr. Crane
-but I dew-I dew-I dewy-set a great deal-by
you, Mr. Crane.

VI.
1~JELISSY! Melissy! Melissy Bedott! Why,
what on arth 's come o' the critter! I'm sure
she went up chamber a spell ago, to fix up, and I
ain't seen her come down sence. You set down,
gals, and I'll jest run up and see 'f she 's there. Why,
Melissy, what in natur do you mean by keeping me a
yeflin' all night? Did anser, hey? well, you 'd ought
to leave yer door open so's a body could hear you,
and not be obleeged to trot way up here arter you.
Come down, right off. Seliny, and Mirandy Crane's
down stairs-they want you to go to the Phreenyogi-
cal lecture with 'em. Ther par 's a gwine, but he 's
bizzy and ain't ready yit, and he told 'em not to wait
for him, 'cause it might be late afore he could git
away. So they come arter us, 'cause they didn't like
to go alone. Me gwine? Why yes, to be sure-why
shouldent I? I never heerd a pbreenyogical leotur,
and. I 'ye got considerable curosty to see what 'tia.
I'llgoputonmythings. Meflssy'll be down in a
mitiit. ~he ix~iats on 't I shaLl go, tew, aud I gue~ I


60    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                        THE WIDOW LOSES H~ER BEAU.  61

wilh-.I always thought I should like to hear one o'
them kind o' lectures. (They enter the lecture room.)
Less go back side, as fur away from the stove as we
can git, it 's so awful hot here, ~What! you afeard o'
the men folks, Mirandy? I don't care if 'tis right
amongst The loafers and boys. I never see that man
yit, nor boy another, 't ~' 11 was afeard on. Gracious
sakes alive! dew look o' them dead folkses head~ on
the table! What awful looking things they be!
Made o' plaster;' hey? Well, I ?m glad on 't-~shan't
feel so disgusted looking' at 'em as I should if they
was rael heads. What a curus looking' critter that
lecturer is, ain't he? How he has got his hair all
scraped up! makes him look kind p' skairt. Name 's
Mr. Vanderbump, ain't it? Wonder if that are wo-
man without a bunr~it on 's Miss Vanderbump? What
an awful big head she 's got! 1E1~r forbid 's all bare,
te~-how it sticks out! Sign of intellect? Goody
grievous! I wouldn't for that. If. I had such a
humbly 'face I 'd keep it kivered up, wouldent you?
Dew see! there comes Sam Pendergrasses 'wife, with
that everlastin' boy o':hern. She takes that young
one evemy where-~and lie always acts like Sanko. I'
gtiess ~ 'II find it purty warm there, right aside o'
the stove. Look3 Seliny! there 's Cappen Canoot-
I'll bet a cookeyhe called for me. Well, I 'in glad I 'd
come away afore he 'd got there~, I 'don't want none
* o' ~ki~ company. I don't know what he ezpects to

gain by sticking' round me so. I hain't never gin him
no incurridgement, and don't intend tew. Of all
things! if there ain't Maj~ Coon's wif6, with that
flabbergasted old red hood o' hem on!, Dew, for
pity's sake, see how she sails along. And then, there
comes the Major grinin' along behind Jier, as if she
was the eend o' the law. I s'pose if ever a man was
completely under his wife's thumb, Major Coon is.
But they say he thinks she 's clear perfection; well,
it 's well ther 's somebody thinks so. Kier was tellin' a
speech old Green made about her t' other day. Old
Green's a musical old critter, you 'know; well, he was~
in Smith's store, and Kiev was there, and Major Coon,
and a number of other men. The Major was a talking'
about his wife-you know how he 's forever talking'
about her-well, he was a praising' on her up, tellin'
how smart, and keen, and indmstroims she was, and all
that. Byrne by he went out, and says old Green, says
he, "The Major does think his wife 's the very dyvi4
and so do i; tew." Old Green 'd no bizness'to said it,
but when Kier told on 't, I couldent help laffi~a'. Well.
done! If there ain't the wider Jinkins! I wonder
if ever any thing goes on in Wiggletown without that
woman's bein' on the spot! I never did see a body
so beset to go as she is. If I was her I woutd stay to
hum jest once, so 'e to see how 't would seem-would.
entyon?
There I Mr. Vauderbump is a~wine to begin! (The

V


62    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

* lecturer expatiates on the wonderful science of Phre-
nology-gives a history of the various specimens-
points out the organs, etc., etc., and just as he concludes
this part of the performance, Mr. Crane enters.) Se-
]iny-.I dew begin to feel rather timmorsome setting' here
with all them rowdies behind us-don't you? If we
had a gentleman with us I shouldent feel oneasy,
should you? Ain't that yer par over yonder ?-s'pose
you go ax him to come and set here long with us-I
should reel safer-[Selina goes and returns with her
father, who sits down beside the widow.] Good eve-
nm7, Mr. Crane I I hope you won't take it amiss, my
sending' for you to come and set over here, for I raly
felt a~ if I should fly away, with all those ere loafers
right behind us-was aL'eard they 'd say something
sassy tew us. And then, tew, I was expecting' every
minit when old Canoot would be makin' a dive~ for
this quarter-and I know'd he wouldn't if he see you
here. 0, Mr. Crane, you can't imagine how I dew
dred that critter. I couldent bear the idee a' havin'
on him go hum with me to-night--don't want t' incur-
ridge him. How do you feel this evenin', Mr. Crane?
better 'n you did, hey? well, I dew feel thankful for 't.
Took them s~kok&amp; berries and rum, did you? Well,
that 's what helped you, depend on 't-~.but you
mustent git slack about takin' on 'P-stick tew it faith.~
fully. lELadent you better take yer comforter off
yer neck till you go out? you won't be so likely

THE WIDOW LOSES HER BEAU. 68
to ketch cold. You 'ye got to be kerful-very ke:rful,
Mr. Crane-you need somebody to see tew you all the
time and make you kerfQl, the gals is young and
thoughtless, and don't think on 't-but that am' sixr-
prism'. I 'm sorry you wa'n't here sooner, Mr. Crane.
This 'ere phreenyology 's the curusest thing I ever
did see. Did you ever see any thing to beat it-how
he can tell an individiwal's character so egzactly by
the looks o' their heads? don't seem to me as if it
could be so-does it to you? I can't realize I 'ye got
such a numerous number of organs in my head-can
you ?.-O, Mr. Crane; what a musical man you be!
you 'II make me die a laffin! Seliny! jest hear what
your par says. I axed him if he could raelize he had
so many organs in his 4aeacl.-and he said how 't
t' other day when he had such a tumble cold in it, it
seemed is if there was organs, and fiddles, and drums,
and every thing else in 'v-did you ever ?-I wish
you 'd a ben here sooner, Mr. Crane, to hear Mr. Van-
derbuznp's exparigate about them heads-he gin a de-
scription of the people they belonged t,~w-aud told
how flier characters was according' ther heads.
That are big head-the one that runs upto .such a
peak on top-he says that 's Scott the celebrated au
thor-I s'pose it 's the one that writ "Scott's Corn-
montaries" on the Scripters. He says it 's a wonder-
ful intillectible head: no doubt on 't-husband sot a
gret deal by his Commontaries-u~ed to borrer 'emo'


64    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

parson Potter-Mr. Scott must a' ben a smart man to
write 'em. That are small curus shaped one on the
corner--that 's the head of an underwitted critter that
died in one o' the poor houses-hain't got no intellec-
tible organs at all. That are skull, that sets behind
Mr. Scott-that 's Old Gibbs the pyrit, that was exte-
cuted a number o' years ago-he was a terrible old
killing. Mr. Vanderbump said that was old Gibb's
skull positively 'bony ftcZy. That is-it 's giniwine
bones-the rest on 'em's made o' plaster. But that
are head that sets aside.o' the commentater-the one
that ?~ got such a dangling' under lip and fiat forrid and
runs out to such a pint beWind-that 's old mother
O'Killem~ ~the Irish woman that murdered so many
folks-she was an awful critter. He said 't wasn't to
be disputed though, that she '4 done a master sight o'
good to menkind-he reckoned they ought to raise a
monument tew her-' cause any b~dy that lookt at her
head couldent persiune no~ longer to doubt the truth o'
phreenyology. He told us to observe the. shape on
perticlerly. You see the forrid 's dretful fiat-wefl,
that shows how 't the intellectible faculties is intirely
wanting . But he didn't call itforrid. He called it the
hossfrontis. I s'pose that' 's 'cause its shaped more
like a hoss than a human critter-animal propensi-
tudes entirely predominates, you know. Thai~ 's what
makes it stick out so on the back side-that 's the
ko&amp;, hindis I 0'pose-kQ&amp;~ front~ and koss hind~, you

THE WIDOW LOSE~3 HER BEAU. 65
know. I felt oncomonly interested when he was a
tellin' about her, 'cause I 'ye read all about her in
"Horrid Murders "-a book I 'ye got-it 's the inter-
estinest book I 'ye read in all my life. It 's enough to
make yer hair stand on eend. I 'ye ben over it I
guess half a dozen times-and it seems interestiner
every time. Husband got it of a pedlar the year afore
he diecI,~ and he used to take an amazing' deal o' com-
fort readixi' on 'to Time and agin I 'ye knowd that
man to lie awake half the night arter lie '4 ben reading'
in "Horrid Murders." He was narvous, you know-
I feel wonderfully attached to that book 'cause 't was
such a favorite o' husband's. Every thing 't was dear
to husband is dear to me-Mr. Crane-that 's one rea-
son why I set~ store by you-he reckoned on you s~
much. I 'II lend you that book Mr. Crane-you 'II
delighted with it. You can jest step in with me when
we go* hum and I '11 let you take it. You '11 be
amazingly pleased with the account o' Miss O'Killem.
She murdered five husbands and a number of other in-
dividiwals, and it tells all how she killed each one on
'em. Some she cut thor throats and some she burnt,
and some she chopped to pieces. 0 'tis awful interest-
in. What did you say, Mr. Crane? That gal with
such red cheeks setting' right by the table, do you mean
0, that is Kesier Winkle, she always contrives to get
a seat where she 'Thbe seen. She takes quite a notion
to Kier-.but I guess she 'II miss a bigger there. Kier


66

WIDOW BED6TT PAPERS.

Bedott ain't a feller be drawd in by a puny face-~
he wants something besides that~-4ho' I never thought
she was so wonderful handsome, do you-her cheeks
is red to be sure, but every body can have such a col-
or if they want-you understand, hey! tho' tain't for
me to say she pai4s, never standing' there is them that
says so. I 'm very glad Kier don't think o' havin' on
her-I never did like the Winkles. Old Winkle 's a
hard old case, and they dew say Kesier 's considerable
like him.
Ther~! I guess Miss Pendergrass has got roasted
out-she 's a comm' this way with her admirable boy
-don't see'what she wants to crowd in here for-
should think she might find a seat somewhere else-
shouldent you? (Mr. Crane relinquishes his seat to
Mrs. Pendergrass and takes the one she left.) Good
evening , Miss Pendergrass! found yer sittivation rather
warm, hey? Well-I make it a pint never to change
my seat in meetings and lectures and such places, whe~n
other folks is obleeged to change their t' accommer~
date me. I think Ican afford' to be uncomfortable
well as other folks ca i4-hope Mr. Crane won't ketch
his death a cold when he goes out, on account o' bry-
un' and stewin' there by the stove-he ain't well at
all. 0 don't git up, Miss Pendergrass-dew sit still
now you 'ye got here. What a curus consa~n this
phreenyology is, ain't it? What. 'an age of improve.
ment we live in! If any body 'd a told us once

I

THE WIDOW LOSES HER BEAU.

67

'U

how 't in a few year we 'd be able to tell egzackly
what folks was by the shape o' ther heads-we would-
ent a bleeved a word on' t-would we? You remem-
ber reading' about old mother O'Killem, in that are
book I lent you, don't you? Well, he 's mistaken
about one thing relating' to her. He says she killed
the nigger wench' by chopping' off her head-now
't wa'n't so-she stomped on. her-I remember just
how 't was, don't you? Ain't his wife a terrible hum.
bly woman? Her head looks jist like a punkin', and
hisen looks like a cheese, don't it? You gwine to
hear her leettir to the ladies to~morrer? Guess Ishall
-if it 's as interest' a lecture as hisen,~ it 'II be worth
hearin'-though I don't think much o' these here
wimnin lecturers, no way-the best place for wim-
mm 's to hum-a mindin' their own bizness, according'
to my notions. You remember that one that come
round a 8pell ago, a whaling' away about human fights.
I thought she 'd ought to be hoss-whipt and shet up
in jail, didn't you? Dew, for pity's sake, look at
Major Coon's wife a blowing' herself with her pocket-
handkercher! Did you see her when she come in?
Dident she cut a sludge, tho'? I never did see such
an affected critter as she is in all my born days. When
you see any body put on such airs as she does, yo~ may
be sure they was raised up out 0' the dirt. They 're
what Kier calls "the mud aristocracy." She gwine
to have a party Thursday evening' ? How you talk!


r

68

WIDOW BEDOTT PAE~S.

-how did you hear ?-told you herself; hey? Is she
gwine to have married folks and young folks both?
Well, them 's the right kind o' parties-enough sight
pleasanter 'n where they 're all married folks or all
young folks-don't you think so? Well, I should
think she'd hale a party-hain'v never gin a reglax
smasher yit-and they 're able to dew it. It 's pleasant
to git a body's friends and nabors together-has an
attendance to permote sociabilitude. I always thought
'Miss Coon was a ~ice woman. Folks has a good deal
to say about her, cause she was a hired gal when she
was young-but I never thought 't was any thing
against her-Miss Jinkins used to run her down dret.
fully afore they got to be 'so 'intimit-and whenever
she used to begin a slanderin' Miss Coon afore me, I
always made it a pint to stan' up for her. I 'ye some-
times thought she was rather affected-hain't you ?-
but then you know it 's natural for some folks to be
affected-I hope Mr. Crane's setting' with me to-night
won't make any talk. I shouldent wonder tho'. if it
should-it~don't take nothing' to make a story in Wig-
gletown-but I couldn't git up and go oft; you know,
when he come and sot down by me-t' wouldn't a ben
perlite-s'pose you 're heerd he 'd called t' our house
a number o' times? fllain't ?-well that 's curus-it 's
all over town. I wish folks wouldn't be gotten' up
such reports about me. Mr. Crane 's a fine man-a
very fine man-but if folks thinks I 'ye any idee o'

&amp; .~

THE WIDOW LOSES HER BEAU.

69

changing' my condition at present, they 're mistaken.
I hain't begun to think about no such thing yit. I
think it 's a pity if Mr. Crane can't call t' our house
once in a while, without the hull naborhood bein' in
a blaze about it-I eny most hope he won't see me
'hum to.night-cause that would make folks say 't was
a gone case with us sartin sure. I see Kier come in
a spell ago-hope he 'ii go with me-though I s'pose
I
he 's come a purpose to go hum with some o' the gals.
There! the lecture's out-Seliny, wait a minnit till the
crowd gits along-I don't want to be squashed to
death-look, Miss Pendergrass! dew see the wider
~Jinkins a scjueezin' up along side o' Mr. Crane-did
you ever! if that ain't rich I I guess if she thinks
she 's a gwine to ketch him she 's mistaken. As true
as the world she 's took his arm, and he 's a gwine
hum with her! Well-I 'II bet forty great apples she
axed him tew. [The young ladies have beaux, and
Kier very dutifully escorts his mother home, 1just as
she hqped he woukL]
4


VII.
JEST itt time, Mr. Crane-we 'ye jest this minnit
sot down to tea-draw up a cheer and set by.-
now don't say a word-I shan't take no for an answer.
Should a had things rather different to be sure, if I 'd
suspected. ~iou, Mr. Crane-but I won't appollygise-
appolligies don't never make nothing' no better, you
know. Why, Melissy, you hadn't half sot the table.
Where 's the plum sass?: thought you was a gwine to
git some on 't for tea. I don't see UQ cake another.
what a kerless gal you be? Dew bring 'em on quick
-and Melissy, dear, fetch out one o' them are punkin
pies and put it a warmin'. How do you take yen tea,
Mr. Crane? clear, hey? how much that makes me
think o' husband! he always drunk hisen clear. Now
dew make herself to huri~, Mr. Crane-help herself to
things. Do you eat johnnycake? 'cause if you don't
I'll cut some wheat bread-dew hey? we 're aWl gret
hands for injin bread here, 'specially Kier. If I don't
make a johnnycake every ~ days, he says to me,
zay~ he, "Mar, why don't you make some injin bread?

MR. Ct~AI~TE ABOUT TO PROPOSE. 71
it seems as if we hadent never had none." Melissy,
pass the cheese. Kier, see 't Mr. Crane has butter.
This ere butter 's a leetle grain frQwy. I don't want
you to think it 's my make, for 't ain't-Sam Pender-
grasses wife (she 'twas Sally Smith) she bordered but.
ter o' me otherr day, and this 'ere 's what she sent
back. I wouldn't a had it on if I 'd suspected com-
pany. How do you feel today, Mr. Crane? Dident
take no cold last night? well, I 'm glad. on 't, I was
raly feared you would, the lecture room was so turn-
ble hot I was eny most roasted, arid I wasn't drest
wonderful warm another, had on my green silk man-
killer-and that ain't very thick. Take a pickle, Mr.
Crane-I 'm glad you 're a favorite o' pickles. I think
pickles is a delightful beveridge-don't ~feel as if I
could make. out a meal without 'em-once in a while
I go a~ visiting' where they don't have none on the
table-and when I git hum the fust thing I dew 's to
dive for the buttery and git a pickle. But husband
couldent eat 'em-they was like pizen tew him. Me.
lissy never eats 'em nother-she ain't no pickle hand.,
Some gals eats pickles to make ~em grow poor, but
Melii~sy hadn't no such foolish notions. I 'ye brung
her up so she skotddent have. Why-I 'ye heerd o'
gals dninkin' vinegar to thin 'em off and make ther
shin delekit. They say Kesier Winkle-why Kier,
what be you p0km' the sass at Mr. Crane for? Melissy
je~t helped him. I cheered Carline Gallup say how't


72     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

78

MR. CRANE ABOUT TO PROPOSE.

Kesie~ Win]de-why. Kier what dew you mean, by
offering' the cold pork to Mr. Crane? jest as if he
wanted pork for his tea! you see Kier 's ben over to
the Holler to-day on hizness with old uncle. Dawson,
and he come hum with quite an appertite-says to
me, says he "Mar, dew ~et 6n some cold pork and
taters, for I 'm as hungry as a bear." Lenime fill up
yer cup, Mr. Crane. Melissy, bring on that are pie, I
guess it 's warm by this time. There! I don't think
any body 'd say that punkin was burnt a steinn.
Take another pickle, Mr. Crane. 0,1 was agwineto
tell what Carlin~ Gallup said about Kesier Winkle,
Canine Gallup was a inanty maker-what, Kier?
rather apt to talk? well, I know she was-but then
she used to be sowin' 't old Winkle's about half the
time, and she know'd pitrty well what went on there
-yes--i know sowin' gals is generally tattlers. It 's a
turnible bad trait in any body-'specially in them--
they ain't no bizness to go round from house to
house a teUin' what guz on among folks that finds
'em then bread and butter. I never incurnidge 'em in
it. When I have manty makers to work for me-as
sure as they undertake to insiniwate any thing against
any o' my nabors---I tell ye, I shot 'ems up quicker-.-.
but I was gwine to tell what Canine Gallup said--
Canine was a very stiddy gal-she was rnan'ied about
a year ago-mar~ied Jo Bennet-Philanden Bennet's
uom-you remember Phil Bennet, don't you, Mr.

Crane~? he 't was killed so scudding over to Gander.
field? Though come to think, it must a ben arter
you went away from here. He 'd moved over to
Ganderfield the spring afore he was killed. Well, one
day in hayin'4ime he was to work in the hay-field-
take another piece o' pie, Mr. Crane-~---0 dew-I insist
on 't. Well, he was to work in the hay-field, and he
fell off the hay-stack. I s'pose 't wouldn't a killed
him if it hadent a ben for his contain' kersmash onto a
jug that was a setting' on the ground aside o' the stack.
The spine of his back went right on to the jug and
broke it-broke his~back, I mean-not the jug-that
wasn't even cracked-curus! wa'n't it? 'T was quite
a comfort to Miss. Bennet in her affliction-'t was a jug
she vallyed-one 't was ~aer mother's. His bein'2ki]led
so was a turnible blow to Miss Bonnet, the ~ircum-
stances was so aggravatin'.~T~wnit a piece o' poetry
on the occasion and sent it tow her; she said 't was
quite consolin'. It says:
O Gauderfield!
Where is thy shield
To guard against grim Deaths
lie aims hiegun
At old and young,
And free away their breath!
One stuumer's day
Yorto'tend tewbis bay,
Mr. Bonnet went te the ~eddw-..
Fell down from the stack-
Broke the spine of his baok,
And left a morning' widdr S
I.


74

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

T was occasioned by hislandin'
On a jug that was standing'
Alongside o' the stack o' hay-
Some folks say 'twas ~w7uzt w'zs in~ it
Caused the f41 of Mr. Bennet,
But tksr ain't a word of truth in what they say-
'Twas true, though, and I know'd it, but of course I
wouldent a had Miss Bonnet s'pose I did'for all crea-
lion. She sticks to 't to this day 't was molasses and
water 't was in the jug. That 's a likely story I
Why! 't was ~a common report for better 'n a year
afore he was killed, that Phil Bennet was a gittin on-
steady, but I never let Miss Bennet know 't I had any
such idee. She and me was always quite intinait.
She was Lorainy Perce, old Peter Perce's darter; you
know I sot a gret deal by Lorainy. She took it purty
hard when her husband was killed; she went into
awful deep mournin~-mournin' -was becomixi' tew her,
she was a dark completed woman; ai~d she wasn't
satisfied with w~arin' mourning herself; 't wa'n't enough,
she even put black caJiker bed-kivers onto her bed.
I remember she had a black canton crape gownd all
trimmed with crape; but she didn't wear her mourn
in' long, for she got married agin in about three
months-married a man by the name o' Higgins-.
carpenter and. jiner by trade: got .acquainted witk
him over in Varmount, when she was there a visiting'
tew her sister's-quite a forehanded man. But I was
a sayin' that poitry-where h~d I got tew! 01 1
know:

MR. CRANE ABOUT TO PROPOSE.

75

How folks can slander
Such a man as Philander
Bennet 'a a mystery to me-
Less see--what comes next?
-a mystery to me-
-a mystery to me-
Plague on ~t! what's the reason I can't remember it?
5uc1~ a man as Philander
Bennet 'a a mystery to me-
Well-I dew declare! 'tis curus how that 's slipt out
o' my mind; dew lemme see 'f I can't ketoh it-.
How folks can slander
Such man as Philander
Bennet 's a mystery to me-
-a mystery to mo-
__________ to me-
Well-I 'II give it up-I 'ye forgot it-that 's a settled
pint. It 's queer, tew-it's the fast time I ever dis-
remembered any o' my poitry-~but it can't be helped
.-mabby it 'II come tew me some time. If it does~
I 'U write it down and show it to you, Mr. Crane-I
know you 'd be pleased with it. Take another cup o'
tea, Mr. Crane. Why! you don't mean to say you've
got done supper! ain't you gwine to take nothing'
more? no more o' the pie? nor the sass? well, won't
you have another pickle? 0, that reminds me-I
was a gwine to tell what Canine Gallup said abont

II


26     WIDOW BEX)OTT PAPERS.

Kesier Winkle. Why, Kier seems to me you ain't
very perlite to leave the table afore any body else
dbes. 0, yes, I remember now, it 's singin'-school
night-I s'pose it 's time you was off, Melissy-you
want to go tew don't you? well, I guess Mr. Crane 'II
excuse you. We 'II jest see the table back agin the
wall-I won't dew the dishes jest now. Me and Me-
]issy does the work ourselves, Mr. Crane. I hain't
kept no gal sence Melissy was big enough t' aid and
assist me-I think help 's more plague than profit.
No woman that h~s grow'd up darters needent keep
help if she 's brung up her gals as she 'd ought tew.
Melissy, dear, put on yer cloak, it 's a purty tejus x
evenm'. Kier, you tie up yer throat, you know you
was complaining' of a soreness in 't to-day..----and., you
must be kerful to tie it up when you come hum-it 's
dangerous t' egspose yerseli' arter singin'-apt to give
a body the brownoritters-and that 's turrible-you
couldn't sing any more if you should git that, you
know. You 'd better call for Mirandy and Seliny,
hadent you? Don't be out late.
Now, Mr. Crane, draw up to the stove-you must
be chilly off there. You gwine to the party to Major
Coon's day after to-morrow? S'pose they 'II give out
ther invitations tomorrow. Dew go, Mr. Crane, it 'II
chirk you up and dew you good to go out into society
agin. They say it 's to be quite numerous. But I
guess ther won't be no dancing' nor highly tight

MR. CRANE ABOUT TO PROPOSE. 77
dewius. If I thought ther would, I shouldent go my.
self; for I don't approve on 'em, and couldn't coimte.
nance 'em. What do you think Sam Pendergrasses
wife told me? she said how 't the widder Jinkins (she
't was Poll Bingliam) is a havin' a new gownd made a
purpose to w~ear to the party-one o' these 'ere flam-
bergasted, biazin' plaid consarns-with tew awful
wide kaiterin flounces round the skirt! Did you
ever! How reedickilous for a woman o' her age, ain't
it? I s'pose she expects t' ~stonisli the natyves, and
make her market tew, like enough-well, she 's to be
pitied. 0, Mr. Crane! I thought* I should go off last
night wheti I see that old critter squeeze up and hook
onto you. How terrible imperdent-wa'n't it? But
seems to me~ I shouldn't a felt as if IE was obleeged
to went hum with her if I 'd a ben in your place, Mr.
Crane. She made a purty speech about me to the
lectur-I 'm almost ashamed to tell you on 't, Mr.
Crane-bu~t it shows what the critter is. Kier said he
cheered her stretch her neck across and whisper to old
Green, "Mr. Green, don't you think the Widder Be-
dott seems to be wonderfully took up with craniotogy.
She 's the brazin-facedest critter t' ever V'
beat all-I never did see her equi]l-'but it takes all
sorts o' folks to make up the world, you know. What
did I understand you to say, Mr. Crane ?-a few
minnit's conversation with me ?-deary me! Is it any
thing pertickeler, Mr. Crane! 0, dear suzi how you


V

78       WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
crew frustrate me I not that it 's any thing uncommon
for the gentlemen to a* to have private conversations
with me you know-.--but then-but then-.-bein' you.-.
it 's different-circumstances alters ~cases yoti know-.-..                        VIII.
what was you a gwine to say, Mr. Crane?
(~ KO, Mi~ Crane, by no manner 0' means, 't
4
~' minnit tew soon for you to begin to talk
gittin' married agin. I am amazed you shot
aI~erd I 'd think so. See-how long 's Miss Cra
dead ? Six months I-Aand o' Goshen 1-why
know'd a number of individdiwals get married
time than that. There 's Phil Bennett's widd
was a talking' about jest now-she 't was Lotaisy
-her husband laadent been dead but three in
- you know. I don't think it looks well for a ~z
tobeinsucha hurry-but fora man~ it'sadi
thing-circumstances alters cases, you know.
then, sittiwated as you be, Mr. Crane, it 's a Ia
thing for your family to be without a head to su
tend the domestic consarns and tend to the chilc
to say nothing" o' herself; Mr. Crane. You aew:
companion, and no mistake. Six months I
grievous I' Why Scjuire Titus didn't wait b
weeks arter he buried his fust wife afore he n
his second. I thought ther wa'n't no particle:

ain't a
about
ildbe
ne ben
I've
in less
er t' I -
Perce
months,
voman~
fl~erent
And
n'rible
Lper -
need a
Good'
Lamed
r need


80       WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
o' his hurryin' so, seem' his family was all grow'd up.
Such a critter as he pickt out, tew! 't was very on.
suitable--but every man to his taste--.-I hain't no die.
perdition to meddle with nobody's consarns. There 's
old farmer Dawson, tew.-.his pardner hain't ben dead
but ten months. To be sure he ain't married yet-.
but he would a ben long enough ago if somebody I
know on 'd gin him any incurridgement. But ain't
for me to speak o' that matter. He 's a clever old
critter and as rich ~s a Jew-.-but---.lawful sakes! he '~
old enough to be my father. And there 's Mr. Smith
-Jubiter Smith-.-you know him, Mr. Crane-his wife
(she 't was Aurory Pike) she died last summer, and
he 's ben squintin' round among the wimrnin ever
since, and he may squint for all the good it '11 dew
him as far as I 'm consarned-tho' Mr. Smith's a re*
spectacle rnan-quite young and hain't no family.-...
very well off tew, and quite intellectible-but I tell ye
what-I 'm purty partickler. 0, Mr. Crane! it 's ten
year come Jinniwary since I witnessed the expiration
o' my belovki companion !.-an uncommon long time
to wait to be sure-but 't ain't easy to find any body
to fill the place o' Hezekier Bedott. I think you 're
the most like husband of ary individdiwal I ever sees
Mr. Crane. Six months! murderation! cirrus you..
* should be afeard I 'd think 't was tew soon-why I 'ye
know'd-."
M~ Crane.-" Well widder-.-.I 'ye been thinking

~iR. CRANE WALKS OUT.      81

about taking another companion-and I thought I 'd
ask you-"
Widow.--." 0, Mr. Crane, egscuse my commotion-
it 's so onexpected. Jest hand me that are bottle o
campfire off the mantletry shelf-I 'm rather faint-
dew put a little mite on my handkercher and hold it
to my nuz. There-that '11 dew-I 'm obleeged tew
ye-now I 'm rather more composed-you may per*
ceed, Mr. Crane."
2l[r. Crane. "Well wider, I was going to ask
you whether-whether-"
Widow.-.-" Continner, Mr. Crane-dew~--I know
it 's terrible embarrisin'. I remember when my dee
eased husband made his suppositions to me, he. stain.
mered and stuttered, and was so awfully flustered it
did seem as if he 'd never git it out in the world, and
I s'pose it 's generally the case, at least it has been with
all them that 's made suppositions to me-you see
they're generally oncerting about what kind of an an-
ser they 're agwine to git, and it kind o' makes 'em
nervous. But when an individdiwal has reason to
s'pose his attachment 's recuperated, I don't see
what need there is o' his bein' flustrated-tho' I must
say it 's quite embarrassing' to me-pray container."
Afr. C.-" Well then, I want to know if you 're wilt.
ing I should have Melissy ?"
Widow.-" The dragon 1"
Afr. C...-." I hain't said any thing to her about it yet
4*


82       WIDOW    BflDOTT P4PEBS.
-thotLght the proper way was to get your consent
first. I remember when I courted Trypheny we were
engaged some time before mother Kenipe knew any
thing about it, and when she found it out ~he was
quite put out because I didn't go to her first. So
when I made up my mind about Melissy, thinks me,
I '11 dew it right this time and speak to the oldwoman
flrst-~-"
Widow.-" Old woman, hey! that 's a purty name
to call me !-amaZin' perlite tew I Want Melissy, hey!
Tribbleation! gracious sakes alive! well, I 'II give it
up now! I always know'd you was a, simpleton, Tim
Crane, but I muse confess I didn't think you was quite
so big a fool-want Melissy, dew ye? If that don't
beat all I What an everlasting' old calf you must be
to s'pose she 'd lOQJ~ at ~qou. 'Why, yoti 're old enough
to be her father, and more tew-~-Melissy ain't only in
her twenty-oneth year. What a reedickilous idee for   (
aman 0' your age! as grayasa rattew! Wonder
what this world ~s a comm' tew: 't is astoni9hin1 what
fools old widdiwers will make o' themselves! Have
Melissy V Melissy I"
2k. C.-" Why, widder, you surprise me-4 'd no
idee of being treated in this way after you 'd ben so
polite to me, and made such, a fuss over me and the
girls."
Widow.-" Shet yer head, Tim Crane-nuu o' yer
sass to me. There 'a yer hat on that are table, and

of'                     - -                                   1
"~het~yonr bead Tim Crane-nan o' yer sass to me. There's yer hat, on that
are table, and here's the door, arA the sooner you put on one and march out &amp;
tother the better it'll be for you."                           page 82.


MR. CRANE WALKS OUT.
here 's the door-and the sooner you put on One
march out o' t' other the better it '11 be for you.
I advise you afore you try to git married agin, I
out west and see 'f yer wife's cold-and arter ~
satisfied on that pint, jest put a little lamphiac
yer hair.-'t would add to yer appearance ondoubi
and be of service tew you when you want to fbi
round among the gals-and when ye 'ye got yer
fixt~ jest splinter the spine o' yer back-'t woul
hurt yer looks a mite-you 'd be interely unresisi
if you was a beetle grain strainer."
0
Mi'. 0-." Well, I never 1"
Widow.-" Hold yer tongue-you consarned
coot you-I tell ye there 's yer hat and there ~8 the
-be off with yerselg quick metre, or I'll give
hyst with the broomstick."
ill'. W-" Ginimeni 1"
Widow, r~sing.-~-" Git out, I say-I ain't a gwir
stan here and be insulted under my own ruff-an
-~-git along-and if ever you darken my door ~
or say a word to Melissy, it 'II be the woss for y.
that's all ~
Mi'. C.0' Ti~eemenjous! What a buster I"
Widow.-" (I~-o 'long-go 'long-..~o 'long, you ~
lasting' old gu~n. I won't hear another word (s
her ears~. I won't, I won't I won't."

I
88
and
And
;ogo
re 're
kon
~dly
itsh
hair
dent
~able
old
door
ye a
ieto
.dso
LU,
I'
4
I
ver~
±ops

fr~,,

I


8A

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

(Enter .Ak1z~sa, acco~pctn'ied by Captain Canoot.)
"Good evenin~ happen! Well, Melissy, hum at
last, hey? why didn't you stay till morning ? purty
bizness. keeping' me up here so late waiting' for you-.
when I 'in eny most tired. to death iornin' and working'
like a slave all day ;-ought to ben abed an hour ago.
Thought ye left me with agreeable company, hey? I
should like to know what earthly reason you had to
s'pose old Crane's was agreeable to me? I always
dispised the critter-always thought he was a terrible
fool-and now I 'in convinced on 't. I 'in completely
disgusted with him-and I let him know it tonight.
I gin him a piece o' my mind 't I guess he '11 be apt to
remember for a spell. I rather think he went off' with
a flea in his ear. Why, cappen-..--did ye ever hear o'
such a piece of audacity in all yer born days? for
1&amp;irn-Tirm Crane-to durst to expire to my hand-the
wider o' deacon Bedott! jest as if I'd condescen to
look at 1dm-the old numskull! He don't know B
from broomstick; but if he 'd a stayed much longer'
I 'd a teaclit. him the difference, I guess. He 's got his
wcdkin' ticket now-I hope he 'II lemme alone in futur*
And where 's Kier? Gun home with the Cranes, hey!
well, I guess it 's the last timQ, And now, Melissy
Bedott, you ain't to have nothing' more to dew with
them gals-d 'ye hear? you ain't to sociate with 'em at
all arter this-.-.'t would only be incurridgin tli1 old man
to CQ~e a pesteii~i me agin.m.-aud I wQil't have him

MR. CRANE WALKS OU~.

85

round-d 'ye hear? Don't be in a hurry, cappen-
and don't be alarmed at my gotten' in such passion
about old Crane's persumption. Mabby you think
't was onfeelin in me to use him so-and I don't say
but what 't was rather, but then he 's so awful dizagree-
able tew me, you know-'t ain't eV'ery body I 'd treat in
such a way. Well, if you must go, good evening !
Give my love to Hanner when you write agin-dew
call frequently, Cappen Canoot, dew."

I

t


THE WIDOW "SETS HER CAP."  87

~Jx.
~JELISSY I ain't that old uncle Dawson a driven
up to Smith's store? Well, I thought so-I 'ye
seen him round considerable lateIy-.ben suspectin'
every day he 'd be calm' in here-Iiain't called sence
his wife died. I met him other day and axed him
why he didn't come-said he 'd ben very bizzy, but
he 'ci try to call afore long-so I guess he 's comm' to-
day, he 's so spruced up. He 's got on a new over-
coat, hadn't h~? that 's the reason I dident know him
at Lust. Melissy! spring tew and finish pleetin' on
that are cap border, I want to put it on, this ere 's so
dirty I should be ~ashamed to be ketcht in 't. I want
you should set the border fuider back, and the. bows
a leetle higher up than they be on this ere, so 's my face
won't look so narrer, it makes a body loQk old to have
such a phizmahogany. Here 'sthe ribbon; come, be spry,
I expect every minnit to see him come out o' the 8tore.
You needent sow it wonderful tight, jest pin them
bows on, don 't stop to sow em-that '11 dew. Guess
I 'II put on my ally packer g~wnd, wouldent ye? it 's
F

more becoming' than ary other gownd I 'ye got. Hold
your tongue, Melissy-what bizness is it o' yourn if I
dew set my cap for old Dawson? He 's rich as mud
and hain't a chick nor child to leave his fortin' tew.
Univarsaler? Ii don't' bleve a word on 't-he goes to
ineetin' quite ~tiddy lately. I don't care if he is a
Universaler another, there 's good folks in all denomi-
nations-pin down my collar quick-he 's enough
sight better 'n old Crane is with all his sanctimony.
Don't you think it 's an improvement settin'~ the bows
higher up? I tell you what, Melissy Bedott, I should
like a chance to ride over the heads o' some o' these
ere folks that feel so mighty grand, shouldent you ?~
you 8houlden4 hey? Well, I spoze ye wouldent-you 'd
jest as leve be pu~ down and trod upon as not-you '±e
jest like yer father, he hadent no more sperrit than an
old goose, and you hadn't another. For my part I 'd
like to be able to show Miss Coon 't I 'm as good as
she is and a leetle grain better, neverstandin' she
didn't invite me to her party, the miserable, low-lifed
critter! shall always be glad I didn't let you go-
spoze I couldn't prevented Kier's gwine if he 'd a felt
able-shall always be glad he had such a terrible cold
he couldn't go. There comes Mr. Dawson! he 's
gittin' in his cutter. Why! as true as natur he's
druv up street wonder where he 's gwine! You jest
go to th&amp; door and see where he stops.-fo]ks 'II talk
if I go) every body 's ~ watching' me. Well, where did


88     WIDOW BEDOTTI PAPi~RS.

he go? To wider Jinkinses!! land o' liberty! w~1
I'll give it up now! I '11 bet a cookey she called him
in, 'twold be egzackly like her. Welt, seem' J ~
drest, I '11 just run in to Sam Pendergrasses. I want
to see Miss Pendergrass-I '11 take my knitting , for
mabby I shant be hum to tea. If I should stay there
to tea don't you and Kier be a letting' into the plum
sass ~nd cake, as you did 't other day when I went to
Deacon Knipe's. Git some o' them are cold beans in
the cubberd, and the bread 't was left at dinner, there~
enough on 't, don't cut no more-ye won't want no
butter if ye have beans. And if Mr. Dawson calls,
you come arter me, d 'y~ hear? (On her return in the
evening she finds Mr. Jupiter Smith visiting Melissa.)
How dew you do, Mr. Smith? Ben here long? I 'm
sorry I was out when you came-~glad you stayed 'till
Igot back tho'. When did you git home front Var.
mount? To-day, hey! flow did you find your
parents? So you mist that are all-killin' genteel
party last night? Well, I guess you dident lose much
.-'t ain't no credit to nobody to go to such a place.
Sam Pendergrasses wife 's ben a tellin' me about it,
she was there, and of all the strains ever I heerd on I
should think that was the cap sheef. Why wasn't
I there? 'cause I don't sociate with such company as
the Coons. I wasn't invited, to be sure-she 'd as soon
a thought of inviting' the governor as me. I should.
ent a went a step if had a ben invited-why, Miss

THE WIDOW      "SETS HER CAP."        89
Coon used to be a hired gal in her young days! and
now sence she 's got a hyst in the world, she tries to
cut a spludge and make folks think she s a lady-.
but any body- that 's used to good company, can see
in a minnit that she 's no lady. They say the way
she performed last night was a caution. She had a
gret long ostridge feather in her head, and she paraded
round like a grannydear-bowin' and smiin' and
curchyin' with as much dignitude as if she 'd a ben the
queen o' Sheby-wa'n't it affable? If I ~d a ben
there I know I should a snorted right out in her face.
Old Crane was there texw, pokin~ round among the
gals-.-.mighty partickler to Kesier Winide, they say.
Did you ever I and his wife hadn't ben dead but six
months! ain't it awful? Well, I 'm glad I 'ye got rid
o' the critter at last. He 's ben sticking' round me ever
since he come here-and it did seem as if I should go
crazy, he 's so terrible disagreeable-but I gin him a
check on the towpath 't other day-and I rather
guess he '11 lemme alone arter this. Kesier Winkle I
ain't it reedickelous? I don't see what he could
fancy about her, do you? ther ain't nothing' of her but
her purty face-and I never thought that was so awful
handsome as some folks does. Her red cheeks is her
only beauty, and they dew say them ain't natural. But
I don't want to hurt Kesiah Winkle-she 's an un-
offensive, simple critter-I shall pity her if' she gits
Tim Crane, he 's the meanest of all created critters.


90     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

IL knowed him in his ~young days. IL mean when he
was ratherr young, and I was very young indeed. I
knowed him always till he went to the West-and
I 'd as soon think o' havin' the "old boy" as him.
He ~don't know nothirt' only how to make money-
o yes he does to-he knows how to keep it. Of all
stingymortals he 's the stingiest. Husband dispised
him-used to say, Tim Crane was so tight he fairly
begrr~dged the air he breathe&amp;-and it 's a fact. Massy
tew me!. it does seem unaccountable how any body
can be so beset to get married as to take up with him
-don't it? He 's the consarndest old gump tew 't
ever was-no intellectibiity at all. I always knowed
he was a dretful ninny, but, I dident think he w~s so
awful silly as he is till 't other night at the ?hreeny-
ogical lecture. He come and sot down by me; I was
terribly provoked to have him a sticking' round me in
public so, but I couldn't help it, you know; I was
purty haughty tew him, I tell ye.. Well, if you '11
believe it-as true as Let here-when the lecturer was
tellin' about the organs in folkses heads, old Crane
thought he meant them are music organs-it 's a fact;
I never was so disgusted in my life. Well, he ain't
worth talking' about, and I make it a pint never to talk
about nobody. I eny most wish you had a ben to
that party, Mr. Smith; it must a ben quite entertaining'
to see the dewins. They say the wider Jinkins
made herself perfectly redicklous. She was drest

THE WIDOW     "Sfl~I~8 HER ({AJ?."  91
off like a young gab-false curls on and artifishel
flowers in her cap. IL think that's very unproper for
a woma~i o' her age-why, I never wear 'em, and I
ain't nowhere nigh so old as she i~-'t is amazing and
they say she cut round and hollered and laffed. and
tried to be wonderful interesting . They say she 's a
tryin' to draw in old uncle Dawson; wouldent itbe awful
if she should coax him upto marry her? but if she
~honld, he 's a bigger fool than I took him for, that 's
all-what say? is gwine to marry her? why Jubiter
Smith! I don't bleve it-4f 't was so Sam Pender"
grasses wife would a knowed it-she knows every
thing that guz on in the place-though she. and Miss
Jinkin~ ain't very friendly; but I knQw 't ain't 50-
who told you, Mr. Smith VMiss Jinkins herself!!
land o' Nod!! Next week 1! you don't!! well-I 'II
give it up now! The wider Jinkins a gwine to be
married to old uncle Dawson! If that ain't the last
thing I ever heerd on! What is this world a comm'
tew? How redicklous! well, she 's a mean,-good-for
nothing , underhanded critter to go to work a setting'
her traps for that poor old man, and, conduce him to
make such a flumbergasted fool o' himself in his old
age! What a dog's life she 'II lead hitn~tew I Why
she 's the awfullest tempered. critter 't ever was made.
I 'ye knowed Poll Bingham from a gal, and II don't
bleve Bill Jinkin~ would a turned out such a misrablo
shack if he 'd a had decent woman for a wife. Poll


92     WEDOW ]3EDOTT PAPERS.

Jinkins and old Dawson? tribbilation!! Well, she 's
been ravin' distracted to git married ever since her
husband died, and arter all, she couldn't git nobody
but that poor decripped, superanimated old feller. If
she wasn't dretful anxious to git married she wouldent
take him. Melissy, dear, go down seller and git some
apples-some o' the seek.no-fuiders--don't fall down
and break yer neck, darling . Old Dawson! why he 's
a Univarsaler! ain't it awful? I 'd as soon think o'
havin' a Hoppintot. If that had a ben the only thing
ther was against him, I shouldn't a had him. I never
gin him no incurridgement-just as if II were a gwine
to take up with Tom, Dick, and Harry, arter bein' the
wife o' such a man' as Deacon Bedotti He 's an
ainazin' ignorant old coot, tew-'t is surprising' how
little he knows! Git some knives and plates, now,
Melissy-~-help- yourself to apples, Mr. Smith. II can
tell you 'a circumstance that actilly took place once-
that '11 show you what an ignorant old heathen he is.
His wife used to belong to Parson Potter's church,
and once in a while he used to come to meeting' with
her, and he always used to go to sleep as soon as the
sermon begun, and sleep till meeting' was out-well,
one Sabberday old Dawson was to meetin'-and Par.
son Potter preached some doctrinal pint-I don't now
remember what was the theme of his subject-but
any way, arter he 'd gin out his text, says he,
"Brothrin-.the subject under consideration this

I

THE WIDOW"5ETS HER GAP."             98
morning' is one o' the biggest importance, and I 'ye
gin it my unmitigated attention for a number o' year
-but I 'm sorry to say, the commontaters don't, agree
with me." Well, old Dawson heerd that-and then
he dropt asleep as usual. The next arterrioon Miss
Potter had company-what 's called a "deacon party,"
you know-that isp-all 'the deacons and ther wives.
There was Deacon Kenipe and his wife, Deacon Crosby
and his wife, Deacon Whipple and his wife, and Deacon
Bedott and me. Well, as we was all a setting' there
about the middle o' the afternoon, who should come
jn but old uncle Dawson, luggin' a mortal gret saSs-
basket-." Well Parson," says he, "you &amp;dd yesterday
in meeting' how 't the common tater8 didn't agree with.
ye-so lii 'ye fetched you some oncommor&amp; ones-the
very be~ that ever was growd-for I reckoned "t was
tew bad you should be obleeged to live on common,
poor taters, while I had such a abundance o' good uns.
lilt 's a kind I fetcht from Connecticut,-where I used
to live-nobody round here hain't got nun like em.
They call em "Harrington blue-skins"~-you needent
be feared but what they 'II agree with. ye-ye might
eat em all day, and not feel a grain the woss fc~ 't."
Now, Mr. Smith, diat 's a fact-I was knowi~ to 't
-Parson Potter, he thanks him over and over agin-.
and we all contrived to keep our faces strait till he 'd
got out o' the house-and then, what a roarin' ther
was! Parson Potter told us never to mention it in


94     wirow BED0TT PAPERS.

creation-cause the old man meant well-but some
how or other it got out-such things will; you know.
But, as Deacon Whipple remarked-it 's lamentable
that any body in this free and enlightened kintry
should be so blind and ignorant. But he 's good
enough for wider Jinkins any day-don't ~rou say
so? Well, 'what is Wiggletown a comm' tew? roll
Jinkins and old uncle Dawson!it 's the laffablest
thing I 'ye heerd on this many a day! he, he, he! I
shall go off]!
The last news that I had from Wiggletown, was
that Melissa is soon to be married to the worthy Mr.
Jupiter Smith; and that Kier is engaged to Selina
Crane. It is supposed that the widow never would
have given her consent to these matches, had it not
been for the interference of Mr. and Mrs. Magwire,
who have at last induced her to give up her opposi-
tion to the wishes of her children. She, however, con-
tinues to growl about it occasionally, and has become
perfectly " dizgu.~ted" with Wiggletown and every body
in it, declaring, that "it ain't what it used to be-all
run down-not fit for respectable people to live in-
and she don't mean to have notbin' to dew with no~
body in a place where every body 's trying' to injure
her, and put her down-and so."

I

I

I

X.

('

THE Widow Bedott having resolved to leave
Wiggletown, makes her farewell visit to her
friend Mrs. Higgins, of Ganderfield.
"Did ye know I was a gwine to quit Wiggletown?
client hay? Well I be-I lay out to go next week.
I am gwine to Scrabble Hill, to sister Magwire's, to
spend the winter, at least-and if I like it purty well,
mabby I shall conclude to make it my native place~
and never come back to Wiggletown-Without 't is
jest a visiting . Its terrible lonesome to be keeping'
house all alone as I be now since Kier and Melissy
was married and dewin' for themselves. Ary one
on 'em would be glad to have me live with. 'em
-b~i~t some h.ow I don't like the idee. Melissy's
got a nice man for ~a husband. Jubiter Smith 's a very
nice man-and she 's very pleasantly sitiwated~ But
I 'd rather not live with 'em-shouldent feel inde-
penden~, ye know. And as for livin' to Kier's-I
guess it 'II be after this, any how, afore I dew that.
Seliny's well enough, fur as I know. I liain't nothing'


96     WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

against Seliny.-.on]y I don't like that stock. I was
opposed to Kier's marrying' into that family-but he
was so determined on 'tI gin up my opposition and
tried to make the best on 't. But I can 't be entirely
recOncile(1 to 't, dew what I will. It 's werry onpleas-
ant to be connected with that tribe, any way. Especi-
ally the old man-I never could bear Tim' Crane-
he 's so mortal mean. Dident know it? well, then,
yo4 don't know him as well as I dew. Why, I 'ire
been acquainted with him ever sence he was quite a
young man, and I can testify 't he was always as tight
as a drum-head. How else did he make his money,
pray? he never could a did it by his wits, for he hain't
none. Yes-I always knowd Tim Crane-so did my
poor husband-he used to have dealing with him, and
he said, that of all born skin-flints 't ever he had to do
with, Tim Crane was the biggest. Yes-I always
disposed the critter-and then to think that any body
should say 't I was a tryin' to ketch him !.-'t is scan-
didious! Hain't heerd nobody say so? Well thir
i.~ such a story all round Wiggletown.-and I gi~ess
I know who started it, tew-and that was old
son's wife-she 't was wider Jinkins-she 's always a
running' me down-and she feels oncommon ryled up
against, me now cause she knows thp old man was
arter me 'fore he took her. I know she started the
story, cause Sam Pendegrasses wife told me on
wad she said she heerd it from Minervy Hawley-~and

96

p
ii

I

RESOLVES TO LEAVE Wi~GLETOWI~'. 97
Minervy Hawley heerd it from Major Coon's wife-
and Major Coon's wife and Miss Dawson is wonderful
intimit-and I s'pose Miss IDawson told Miss Coon.
But what she says ain't worth minding . 'T is curus
nobody should pay any attention to 'to M~ set my
~ap for old Crane! Gracious{- I never could bear the
sight of him. I tell you, I was glad enough when he
got married to Kesier Winkle-though 't was a most
reedidious piece o' business, wasn't it? To think o'
his marrying' that foolish flirt of a gal! young enough
to be his darter, tew! But I rejoiced from the bottom
o' my heart when it took place-for, thinks me, folks '11
stop ther gab about him and me now. You see, he 'd
been sticking' round me ever ~sence he came back here
-and ther was considerable talk that him and me
was a gwine to make a match-and 't was very dis-
tressin' to me to be the subjick of such a report. I
done all in my power to give him to understand that
his attentions was dizagreeable tew me-but somehow
another he wouldn't take the hint. I didn't want
him to offer himself tew me, you know. I always
make it a pint when I see 't an individdiwal's pleased
with me and I don't recipperate t~her sentiments-I
say, I always make it a pint to discourage 'em all
I can-for it hurts my feelings amazinly to be obleeged
to refuse a man; it's so mortifying' tew 'em, ye know,
to be told they ain't wanted. I always git rid ou't
when I can-and I tried tew in this case-but the old
$


98     winow BEDOTT PAPERS.

coot was so awful nunabheaded I couldent beat any
thin' into him. He hung on like the toothache~~-till
If got c~it of all patience. At last he. come t' our house
one evening-(Now Miss Higgins, I hope you won't
never mention this to no body. I shouldent a told you
on 't-I make it a pint never to tell o' such things.
Only seem' we was a 8peakin' o' the story~ bein' round
that I sot my cap for him, I thought I 'ci let you know
how much foundation ther was for 't-but don't let it
git 110 furder for pit 's sake. I don't wish Mr. Crane
no harm). But I w~s a gwine to tell ye-He took
the opportunity one night when I was alone, to come
over t' our house. I generally contrived to keep
Melissy or Keir in the room when he came there; and
I 'spose he' d noticed it, for lie come over' a singing'
school evening , when he knowd they 'ci be gone: I tell
ye I was mad when I see the critter come in. I
treated him as cool as a cowcumber; but neverstandin'
all that, if you '11 bleve it, he 'up~ and popped the ques.
4iQn! At first I ansW~red him as civil as I could, 'and.
begged to be egscused; but he wouldent take no for
au answer; and so I was obleeged to be purty hash
with him and told him I didn't want nothing to dew
with him, and wished he 'd reiterated and leave~ me'
alone and never trouble me no more. And will ye
bleve it I the 9ritter continued to hang op till I wa~
necessiated to order him out o' the house and tell hint
if~ver he darkened my doors agin he 'ci ketch it.

RESOLVES TO LEAVE WIGGLETOWN. 99
at last I got rid of him; and that 's the upshot o' the
matter betwixt old Crane and me. 'T was about tew
months afore he was married to Eesier Winkle-and
c~sctppintecZ 'me, as they say. ])isappinted I it looks
like bein' disappointed, don't it? Its awful provoking'
to be talked about as I be, ain't it? But I 'ye always
ben the subjick o' slander ever since I lived here, and
that 's since IL was quite a gal. What a terrible place
for talking , Wiggletown is, though I a regular slander
mill. It 's a great deal woss than it used be-and
't was always bad enough. I'm perfectly disgusted
with the place, especially sence them stories about old
Crane and me. It makes me outrageous to be lied.
about so by such folks as old Dawson's wife and Miss
Major Coon. Miss Coon-she don't like me cause I
hadn't never knuckled tev~r her. You. know she thinks
she 's a great character sence she married Major Coon.
But I can tell her ~' I ain't so fond o' pork as to eat hog.
yokes I" Miss Pendergrass says, I hadent ought to
mind none o' the stories folks tells-and I don't mean
tew. But then it 's made me clear sick and tired ~o',
Wiggletown. I 'm completely disgusted with it, and
don't mean to live there no longer if I can help it.
I 'ye ben some time considering' what 's best to dew,
and.I 'ye made up my mind to go to Scrabble Hill to
spend the winter with sister. Magwire. I was there
and stayed a fortnight about two year ago-~-had a very
pleasant visit. At first I thought quite strong o' visib.

I

ii?


100    WItOW ]3BDOTT PAYERS.

in' my brother, Christopher Columbus Poole, away in
Varmount-ne~er was there but once, and that was
fore husband died. But I 'ye giv 't up on account o'
the family bein' Baptists. I can't stan the Baptists no
way; and if I went there I should have to go to the
Baptist meeting' and t1~at would be a turrible~ cross tew
me; so I 'ye concluded to go to Scrabble Hill for a
~pell. Sister Magwire 's a fine woman, thor~gh she
ain't very intellectible. I always sot a great deal by
her. No doubt she '11 be wonderful glad to have me.
come. She must be considerable lonesome now. Her
only son 's gone off to study doctrine; and she 's alone
quite a good deal. Her husband carries on the shoe-
makin' bisness quite extensive; and he 's to his shop
the heft o' the time. To speak the truth, I ain't sorry
her son 's gone, for he ain't no favorite o' mine. He 's
growed upto be rather a clizagreeable young rlaan-
always pokin' fun at every body. He takes after his
father in that respect. Brother Magwire 's quite a
teaze, though he knows better 'n to hurt folk's feelings
as Jeff does. I think I ~shall enjoy myself pretty.
well at Scrabble Hill. T~ae society is quite refined
there, and that suits me, ye know. it feel out o' place
in Wi~gletown; thor ain't no refinement there at all.
What little there used to be 's all run out. The in-
habiters now 's a perfect set o' Goffs and Randals.
I 'in thoroughly dizgusted with the hull town and
every body in it, exception' Kier and Melissy, and Sam

100

RESOLVES TO LEAVE WIGGLETOWN. 101
Pendergra5s~5 wife. If 't wa'n~t, that they live there,
Wiggletpwfl might go to destruction for all I 'd
care.
LETTER FROM JEFFERSON MAGUIRE TO 1115 COUSIN,
MRS. JASPER DOOLITTLE.
CocmrvILLB, Oct. 2 '7, 184'7.
* DEILR CouSIN NANCY:
What gloomy, miserable weather this is! But I
suppose that your domestic cares and your good hus~
band, occupy so much of your attention, that you 'ye
hardly time to growl about the weather. I assure
you I feel forlorn, enough to-day. Probably more so,
for having just returned from a visit of a week at
father's; and home is so much pleasanter to me than
any other place, that I am always discontented for a
while after coming away.
I suppose you would like to know what the good
folks at Scrabble HilLa~ doing; so I '11 tell you as
far as I know. Father and mother get on about after
the old sort, and there seems to be no great change
among the other inhabitants. Sam Baily is paying
attention to Katy Carey, and ~Pardon Hittibone and
Maria Louisa Wilson are to b~ married ne~t month.
Charity Grimes an&amp; Sally Hugle are as old aiA as dis-
agreeable as ever, if not a. beetle more so~ and full as
anxious to dispose of themselves as ever. Old Elder

U'

9


4

102

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPER~

Sniffles, the Baptist minister, lost his wife about two
months ago, and his personal appearance has~,greatly
improved' since that afflictive event (no uncommon
thing as respects widowers, I believe). The Footes have
sold out, and gone to Wisconsin, and-.well I believe,
you have now all the. village news, excepting one
piece of information, and that, as it is the most im-
portant, I have reserved till the last. A distinguished
stranger arrived a~ Scrabble Hill some two weeks
since. Who do you guess it is? Why, no less a
personage than the Widow Bedott, interesting relict
of Deacon Hezekiah Bedott. She . in-
flicted herself upon father's folks for the whole winter.
What a time they 'II have of it, won't they? Mother
is so well disposed, that she tries tQ put up with it
cheerfully; but neverthelessit is pretty evident that
she looks upon Aunt Bedott as a prodigious bore.
She had been there but two or three days when' I
went home, and she did ~not appear overjoyed to s6e
me. For some reason or 'other she does n't take a
particular fancy to me. Mother says it 's because I
teaze her sometimes. Bu~ there is something so de-
cidedly ric1~about Aunt Silly, that I can not for my life
help having a little fun at her expense occasionally.
,On Sunday morning I said to her, when mother was n't
by, "Well, aunty, where do you go to meeting to-
d~y ?" "Where do I go to nieetin' I" said, she "what
a question! why, where shoUld I go but to my own

*

RESOLVESS TO LEAVE WIGGLETOWN. 103
meeting' ?" "Oh," said 1, "I thought perhaps you1d
like to hear Elder Sniffles, he 's such an interesting
preacher." "What I" said she, "rae go to the Baptist
meeting ! I hope you ain't in earnest, Jeff; w~hy I 'd as
soon go to the theater as go there. I have a suffering'
contempt for the Baptists. ~Uhey think nobody can't
git to heaven Without bein' dipped, dipping' 's a savin'
audience with them. Why, come to thir~k, I remem-
ber that Elder Sniffles. When I was here afore, yer
mother and me was in to Mr. ilugle's one evenin'-
they 're Baptists ain't they? and Elder Sniffles
and his wife come i~there to call. If my memory
serves me, he 's rather a tall, scrawny man, with eyes
that looks like a couple o' peeled onions, and kind o'
squintin' tew, and seems to me he had n't no hair
~hardly." ~" 0 I" said, I "you 'd scarcely knew him
now, he 's gota wig and wears spectacles, which im-
proves his appearance vastly." "Well, I should think
it needed improvin'," said she.
"By the way, aunty," said I, "did you know that
Mrs. Sniffles was dead?" "You don't say so!" said
she. "Yes," said I: "she died only a few weeks ago.
Ifee'l sorry for the elder-he must be so iQilesome."
"So do I," said she, with a sigh. "It 's a dreadful
thing to. lose a companion, and I s'pose the Baptists
feel it as much as any body." "Undoubtedly," said
I; "Elder Sniffles seems deeply afflicted-his sermons,
they say h~e been more. interesting than ever, since


1O4~  WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

his loss: something mournfully solemn about them."
-* IL went on for some time, dilating upon the elder's
eloquence and talents, and loneliness and all that. I as~
sure you~[ talked pretty fast; for fear'm~ther 'd come in
before I could say all I wanted t~.-.$nd I was afraid
she 'd throw all the fat in the fire. / At length aunt
Silly ~aid that I 'd raised her curiosity to such a pitch
that she really felt quite a desire to hear the elder preach
-she had a good notion to go to the Baptist meet-
ing for once. Of course I offered my services as es-
cort. Shortly a~er mother came in, and was quite sur-
prised when Aunt Bedott announced her intention of
going to the Baptist meeting. "What '5 your notion ?"
paid mother. "Oh 1" said aunty, "Jeff's excited my
curiosity so much about Elder Sniffles, that I feel as
if I 'dlike to go and hear him preach." M~the~looked
at me for an explanation..-.so I thought my best course
wa~ to own up-for I knew that mother would n't ex-
posh me, and tell Aunt Bedolt that I was hoaxing
her, as it would serve to increase her antipathy to me,
which mother was anxious to do away. Therefore IL
remarked that I 'd been telling aunt Silly, what an do-
0
quent man elder Sniffles was. Mother said nothing
then, but as soon as we were alone, she took me to task
roundly. However IL carried the point, and aunty and
I went off to the Baptist meeting. We had a seat very
near the pulpit. As usual, the elder, whaled away
through his tiose-thumped the desk, an&amp; went over

104.

RESOLVES TO LEAVE WIG~LETOWN. 105
and over again with the same thing-using a little dif-
ferent words each time, without ever making the most
remote approach to any thing like the shadow of an
idea. But it would have done you good to see with
what devout and earnest attention Aunt Bedott regard-
ed him tall the time. Once he was deeply affected,
and sobbed in a manner that attracted d universal atten-
tion. lit was on his making the very original observa-
tion that "this was a changing world, and we couldn't
calculate with any degree of certainty upon any
thing 1" When we were going home, Aunt Bedott
said-" Well, Jefferson you was right-elder Sniffles
is a very interesting preacher-very, indeed. I never
was more edified in my life than I 'ye been this morn-
in'. He ain't so bad looJciri7, another, as I was thinki~nZ
he was,: that er~ wig makes him look ten year young-
er-a body never 'd think o' such a thing as its bein'
a wig-it 's so natural. And them specs, too: they 're
an improvement on account o' kind o' bidin' the pe-
cooliarities of his eyes. I don't know as I should a'
took him for the same indiwiddiw~4. But then his
~armon 1-Oh, Jefferson, that was what I call a sar-
mow in earnest! I begin to think 't ain't right to be so
prejudiced against other denominations. I should
like to~ be introduced to Elder Sniffles, and hear him
converse." Wouldn't it be rich, Nancy, to be an ii
visible listener to the conversation? The next day II
came away. I shall be quite curious to know whether
5*

4
4*'


106    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

Aunt Bedott continues in her liberal frame of mind-
but I sha'n't dare to ask mother a word about it when
I write-so I must remain in ignorance until I go
home again at Thanksgiving. But I 'm writing a
tremendously long letter, so I '11 just stop where I am.
Remember me to cousin Jasper~ and believe me your
affectionate cousin.

XI;
~                  ~tz          ~
morning' marm! can I trade any with ye
to-day ?"
"Land o' liberty! I want to know if that 's you,
Jabe Clark?".
"'T ain't nobody else-but raly you 'ye got the
advantage o' Ume.,~
"Rev hay! well I guess it 's the fust~time any body
got the. advantage o' ye-do ye remember them shoes
ye sold me ~n Wiggletown ?"
"Jingo! I 'II be darned if 't ain't the Widder Be-
dott! why-ye look younger ana handsomer 'ii
ever-"
"It took them shoes to ptir up yer memory-I al
ways tho't I 'd like to hey a recknin' with ye about
com.in' such a trick on
"But Widder-"
'KN~one o' yer buts-dident ye tell me they was
fustrate leather-and worth ten shilling' every ceit
on 't-but seem' 't was me I mont hey 'em for, a dol-
lar, say! and dident they bust out at the sides and


108      WIDoW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
i'un down at the heels arid split 0/le instep in less
than a week's time-and didn't ye know they would
serve me so when ye sold 'em to me-say ?"
"But Widder ye know1"
"Yes Ii know-J know 't want the fust time you'd
cheated me-but I ru.ther guess 't was the last time-
and I ain't the only one that 's made up ther minds
flQt to hey no more deal with ye-Sam Pendergrasses
wife says~'t if ever~you darken her doors again you '11
ketch it."
"Well, Miss Bedott, to tell ye the plain truth, them
Bhoes hey laid heavy on my conscience for some time
back.-I dew confess with compunction that I had
some shorteomin's in those days-i[ did use to git the
better o' my customers sometimes in a bargin.~-I 'ye
felt quite exercised about it lately. * Ye see, Widder,
I. wasn't activated by religious principles then, that
was the di$Iiculty."
"Do ye mean to insiniwate that ye '~ve met with a
chau~e?"
"I think I may confidentially say I hey."
"How long sence ?"
"Wal, about a year and a half. II experienced re-
]igion over in V"armount, at one o' brother Armstrong's
protracted meeting's. I tell ye, Widder, them special
efforts is great things-ever sence I come out I 'ye felt
like a new critter."
~;"WeU, I hope you 'ye acted like one, and restored

TRADES WITS A PEDDLER.

109

four-fold, as scripter commands, to them you 'ye got
the better of. If ye did I guess yer pocl~ets was
cleaned out amazing' quick."
"I 'm free to say, I hey made restitution .as fur as I
was able."
"Well, then, ye '4 better hand over that dollar I paid
for them shoes-or at least six ~hillin' on 't, they
wa'n'ti worth over twenty-live cents at the furd~st."
"Wal, I '11 tell ye Widder how I ginera]ly dew in
such cases. I make a practice o' letting' on 'em trade
it out (he begins to open his boxes), I 'ye got a lot o'
goods that 'II make yer eyes water, I gi~ess. I make
it a pint o' carryin' a finer stock than ary other travel-
in' merchant in this section."
"Ye, needent undew 'em-' hadn't no notion o'
trading. "
"But 't won't cost nothing' to jest look at 'em, ye
know-there, them pocket handkerchers is superior
t~ any thing ye '11 find this side o' &amp;ew York."
"WonderftLl thin though."
"Sheer, ye mean, that 's what they call sheer, a
very desirable quality in inning cambrick. I tell ye
Widder there ain't no such handkerchers in Scrabble
~jfl?~
"I 'II bet a cent they 're half cotton."
"Half cotton! jingo! they ain't half cotton-I'll
stake my repertation on 't-I mea~u my present reper~
station "


110

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

"What dew ye ax for 'em ?"
"Wal, them handkerchers had orto fetch twelve
shillin' -apiece. I never sold none for less, but bein'
as I didn't dew exactly the fair thing about the shoes,
if ye '11 take* a couple I '11 strike off tew shillin', and
let ye hey 'em for tew dollar~a~d seventy-five
cents."
"Land o' liberty! ye scare me, Jabe! I 'in. waiatin'
some nice handkerchers wonderfully jest now, but dear
me! I 'd go without to the eend o' my days afore I 'd
pay such a price for 'em.
"Wal, then, say tew dollars IIfty cents, I 'in wiflin'
to let 'em go for that considering' the shoes."
"Twenty shillin'! it 's awful high, I won't give it."
"Say eighteen shillin' then, nobody could ax less
than that, I 'in sure."
"Eighteen shillin'! it 's tew nfiuch-I can't afford
it."
~C Tew dollars then-take 'em for tew dollars.-4t's
the sarn~ as givin' on 'em away. I tell ye Widder, ye
wouldent git such a chance if 't wasn't for my feeling's
in relation to them shoes. I told ye they wa~ worth
twelve shillin' apiece, and now I offer 'em tew ye for
tew dollars a pair, one dollar struck oft; that 's all
ye paid for the shoes."
"meyer gi'nso much for handkerchers in all my
born days, can't ye take no less ?"
"Not a ceirt Widder, not a cent."

'5
TRADES WITH A PEDDLER.

111

"Well, then, I don't feel as if I could afford to take
p  ~,
em.
"And so I s'pose I may as well put 'em up agin
-wal, I 'm sorry, not that it would be any objiet to
me to let them go so cheap, only I thought I 'd like
to set my mind at rest about the matter o' the shoes.
I 'ye offered to make it up and yoti 'ye refused to
have it made up, so the fault is yourn, not mine, my
conscience is clear; if folks will persist in stannin'in
their own light I can't help it, that 's all." (He re-
places them in the box.)
"Lemme jest look at 'em once more, Jabe-these is
purty-car&amp;'t take no less than tew dollars?"
"Not a red cent less; and I tell ye agin it 's the
same as givin' on 'em away at that."
"Sure they ~n't half cotton ?"
"Jest as sure as I be that my name 's Jabez
Clark." /
"Well, then, I guess I shall hey to take 'em.~'
"IL 'm glad on't for your sake-as I said. afore, t' ain't
no objict-to me. I've got a piece o' silk I want to
show ye, Miss Bedott, a very desirable article for a
wedding' dress."
"Lawful sakes I I hope ye don')liink I want such
a thing."
"Wal, folks tells singular stories. I heerd some*
thing down here."
"0 shaw I 't won't dew to believe all ye hear."


112   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

TRADES WITH A PEDDLER.  118

"I~sold Elder Sniffles a black sattit~g stock and a
buzzom pin yesterday; s'pose he wanted 'em for a
~artic1dar occasion"
"Git out Jabe! what sort of a buzzom pin was it?"
"Wal, 't was a very desirable pin; topiz sot in gold.
sold it tew him for a'inost nothing. I always make
a pint to accommodate the clergy in that way, never
charge 'em full price. I always lookt upon the Elder
as: a very gifted man-I. staid here over the Sabbath
once td hear him preach-I tell ye,' Widder, 't was
powerful pleading . I 'm rather inclined to the Baptist
order myself-.ben quaverin' on the subject ever sence
I was brought out-in fact I 'ye thought hard o' givin'
up the traveling' mercantile business and studying' deol-
ogy; but, on the hull, I 'ye about gi'n it up-..'t would.
ent do for me to be confined to preachin'.-my health
requires such amount of exercise. But here 's thai~
silk, did ye ever see the beat on 't? now that's what
I call .~plendid-.it 's ginniwine French-they call it
'grody - grody grody' - what the dogs ~ them
French names is so consarnid hard tQ remember-~-.O,
I know now, 'grody flewry;' jest take a realizing?
sense o' th~ colors-.---how elegant them stripes is shaded
off; green and yeller and purple, regular French try-
color, as they call it."
"It '~ slazy though, thor ain't much heft to 't."
"Heft! to be sure 't aint heavy, but heavy silks
~iii't WOrn no more, ye know; they 'i~b all out e' Lash-

ion-these ere light French silks is all the go now-
ye see folks has found out how much more durable
they be than the heavy ones-them 's so apt to crack
--why one o' these ere '11 outlast a dozen on 'em.
I 'ye got jest a pattern on 't left-had a hull piece-.
sold tew dresses off oiP~t, one to Judge Hogobome's
daughter in Greenbush, and. the other to the Reverend
Dr. Fogo's wife in Albahy. Now' Widder what dt ye
say to takin' that, 't would make a most hyastical wed..
din' dress."
"Well, 't ain't for me so say r'm wanting' such an
article-but s'posen I was-I 'ye got a new one that 'II
dew. Sister Magwire pickt it out for me. She hadn't
got much~taste about colors-but she 's a good judge
of quality."
"Got it made up!"
"No;, but the mant.-maker's a comin' to morrer to
make it."
"Lemme see it, if ye please~ I want to compare it
with this." (She brings it.) "Jingo I-I '11 be darn-
ed if 't ain't stun.t~olor! the fag end of a~Z colors!
Why, a body 'd think 't was some everlasting' old maid
inside of a handsome young wider that had chose
such a distressed thing for a wedding' dress."
"Lawful sakes! I dident say 't was a wedding' dress
-and I didn't say I chose it myself: for, to tell the
truth, I didn't more 'n half like it: but sister Magwire
stuek to 't was more suitable than ary othe~ color-

4 .


114

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

and then tev~r,, she thought 't was such an amazing' good
piece."
"Good piece! Jingo! what did ye pay for 't ?"
"A dollar a yard. Ther 's twelve yards on 't--got
it o' Parker and Pettibone, and they said 't was fust.
rate."
"Wal, I don't s'pose they meant to cheat ye-~--theygot..
cheated themselves when they bought that silk. I al-
ways know'd that Parker ~and Pettibone wa'rn't no
judges o' goods. The fact is, them New York~, mar-
chants puts off their old onsailable articles onto 'em,
and make 'em think they 're genteel and desirable. I
tell ye, Widder, ye got most consarne~y took in when
ye bought that silk. Ve won't wear it three ~nies afore.
it 'Il crack out at the elbows, and fray, out round the
bottom."
"Well, I hadn't ben suited with it iione o' the time
-shouldent a got it if sister Magwire hadent a ding.
dong'd me into 't. Th.~ was a~ blue one ther 't I liked
a great deal better."
"I tell ye, Widder, it raly hurts my feelings to think
o your standing' up along side of Elder Sniffles with'
such a~consumid looking' thing on."
"0 shaw !-stop yer hectorin' about the Elder. I
ain't obleeged to hey every body thi~t 's after me."
"Wal, I know that-only such chances as Elder.
Sniffles ain't to be sneezed at, ye know. But speaking'
o' that silk-4f 't wa'n't for standing in my own light

'p
TRADES WITH A PEDDLER.

115

so consarnidly, I 'U be darned if I wouldn't offer to
swop for a smallf matter o' ~boot."
"Boot! that 's wuss than the shoes! S'pose I 'd go
to givin'~ boot to git rid on 't after payin' an awful
sight o' money for 't in the fust place ?"
"Wal, 't would be ruth&amp; aggravating' if you 'd got
a full pattern-you hadn't but twelve yards. Of course
ye dident calkilate to hey no trimming , or ye 'd a got
more."
"I thought I shouldn't trim it considerin'-"
"Yes, I understand-considerifl' 't was for a minis-
ter's wife-"
"Git out, Jabe-I didn't say so-"
"Itell ye, Widder, you 're tow partickler-minister'S
wives is as dressy as any body. The Reverend Doe-
* tor Fogo's wife had hem made tip with three wide cross~
grained pieces round t~1 ~ skirt. Jingo! they sot it off
slick. These ere striped silks look fust rate with cross~
grain trimmin'-seems to go windin' round and round,
and looks so graceful kinder. I .~een lots on 'em in the
* city. How them city ladies would. larf at such a
dress as yournt But out here in the country. folks
don't know nothing. "
"If I '4 a trusted to my own taste, I shouldent a
* got it. I wish to "massy I hadent a ben governed by
sister Magwire."
"Jingo! wotildent it be quite an ide~ for you to be
the fust in Scrabble Hill to come out in ~ 'grody flew-
I?

4

'1


1
116      WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
ry.' Them color~ would be won!derfulbecomin' to you.
Jest lemme hold it 14 to~ye and you stan' up and look
in the glass. Jingo! it 's becominer than IL thought
't would be. I tell ye Widder, you must hey that silk
'and no mistake."
"Dear me! I wish I could afford to swop-.Wliat '~
it woth ?"
"Wal, II can'Pexpect to git the full vally on 't. I '11
sell it tew ye as low as I feel as if I could-it's a
high-priced silk-hem' as it 's so fashionable now;
but I '11 tell you, Miss Bedott.-though I wouldn't tell
every body-the fact is, ~i got that silk at a bargirii,
and of course. I can afford to let it go for considerable
less than I could if I 'd a paid full price. Ye see the
merchant I took it of was on the pint o' faiin', and
glad to sell out for any~ money. He dident ax but a
dollar a yard.-~Ther '~. 2ourteen yards left, as you can
see 1~y the folds-and you may hey it for fourteen dole
lars, jest what it cost me. I tell ye, wider, it 's a
* bargain "
"Land o' liberty! fourteen dollars! I can't think
on 't."
"Wal, then, I '11 dew still better by ye. I want
you should hey this silk-.so s'pozen I take yourn off
yer hands, and you take this, and jest pay me the bal-~
ance. Mabby I could sell that to some distressed ~ld  4
quaker woman that wants an every-day frock-and
what if couldent, I should hey the satisfaction o'

V I
II
I I
I;
~ I
ii
:1ii
11
'F
{


2
"Stop a minute, Jake, LII resk it. Its time I was my own miMtress atty ho~~
I know sh~ter Maguii'&amp;l1 say its to~v gay for me and call it flambei'gas~~ij, bitt
I doti t ~aie."                                                     J)agQ 117

TRADES wi~n A PEDDLER.             117
dewin' you a favor any how.-What d '~e say to
that?"
"Leinme see-the balance-that would be tew dole
lars. I 'ye paid twelve for t' other already. I don't     Jjii
know abbut spending' so muchnaoney-4on7t~k~iow
what sister Maguire 'd say to 'to She 's goiie over to
see old aunt Betsy Crocket-aunt Betsey 's sick. Sis.
ter Maguire hates striped silk, and pedlars tew-.won't
never trade with 'em-"
"Jingo! tome to think on 't, I 'm a tarnal goose to
be willing' to stand in my own light jest for the sake of
accommodating' the, wimmin folks-'t ain't no object
to me." (He folds up the silk.)
"Stop a minnit, Jabe. I 'li resk it. It 's time I
was my own mistress, any how. I know sister Ma.
guire '11 say it 's tew gay for me, and call it flambergas-
ted, but I don't care-"
"Gay! I wish to n~iassy she could see a dress that
Elder Cole's wife out east has got-entirely red-the
reddest kind o' red tew-stripes as wide as my hand!
27~at 's rather flambergasted for a minister's wifb. So
ye think ye 'ii take it, hey ?"
"Dunno but Twill on the hull."
"Wal, I s'pose I 'd orto stan to my offer-but I tell
ye, Widder, it 's a bargain "
"Fourteen yards, ye say?"
"Fou~n yards plurnp-ye m~y count the folds at
the edge. Ye can hey cross-grain trimming' if ye take


118      WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
a notion. Jingo! won't it give the Scrabble Hill wim.
mm fits to see ye with that on?"
CC Well, I '11 take it. See, how much do I owe ye
now?"
*   "But can't I sell ye any thin' else ?"                                      xii.
"T SAY, sister Magwire-this ere s
U
kind of a world, for I 've-"
"I don't agree with you, Silly. I
good sort of a world if a body bc
point o' view. Most o' folks in it us
guess they 'll container to dew so as I
well. For my part I 'm satisfied wi
erally speaking "
Cc~&amp;[e1l, s'pozen ye be, that 's no s
else had ought to be satisfied with
ways a wonderful satisfied critter.
body 's dretful ni~e and dretful cleve
"Kow sister Bedott you know t
know~ther 's some folks 't I 'ye got
opinion of."
"I know flier is a few 't ye don't
as a general thing you seem to thinly
is jest about right. For my part, I 'C

I
a miserable mean
think it's a very
ks at in a right
*14
edmewellandl
Long as I use them
th the world gin-
ign't every body
it. You was al-
You think every
*1
hat4 ain't so-you
a terrible ~mean
like-but I mean
the most o' folks
Lruther~eethingS


'p
7'
.1

WIDOw BEDOTT PAPERS.

K
ii

120

r
I
I

41

as they actilly be. I shouldn't want to be so awfzd
contented."
"I should think so-for you ain't never contented
only when you 'ye got some thing to be dixontented
about."
'Well, if that 's the case, I 'd ought to be content-
ed the heft o' the time, for my trouble is continniwal."
"How you talk, sister Bedott I I thought you had.
ent nothing to complain of now-a-days. I know 't
along after your husband died you wus in rather poor
circumstances and used to grumble a good deal-but
* seems to me you 'd ought to be contented and thank.
ful now. Yer children's growd up to be blessing tew
ye, and now they 're both settled and dewin fust rate.
And sence father was took away, and the property
was divided, you 'ye had enough to keep ye comfort-
able, and more tew."
"0 lawful sakes! I didn't mean 't I was poverty
struck. Ther 's other kinds o' trouble besides that-
ain't thar? If you 'd a ben in Wiggletown dunn' the
last few years, and seen how every body was a peeking'
at me, and a tryin' to put me down, you 'd a thought
I had somethi~' to try me. You wouldn't jaw me for
thinking' the world 's a dretful mean place-full o'
dretful queer folks."
"0 dear suz! Some folks is always a talking' about
other folks' bein' queer, while, like enough, it 's them.
ue~1vea that 's queer, after all."

DISCOtTRSE O~ VARIOUS TOPICS.. 121.
"I hope ye don't mean to insinniwate 't I 'n~ queer,
Melissy."
"0 no, Silly. I di ean to insinniwate that-
but then ye know almost every body has ther queer
streaks."
- "Yes-I know it 's a pecooliarity natural to every
body to be queer about some things-but then somo
folks i~ queerer 'n others."
"Jest so, Silly-some folks is actilly queer-and
some folks thinks some other folks queer 'cause they
don't happen to think jist as they dew on some pints.
W~, think some indiwiddiwals is queer cause they
differ from us, and mabbe they think we 're queer
cause we differ from them. We 'd ought to be earful
how we call other folks queer, for the fact is we 're all
queer more or less-and them that lives in glass
houses mustent throw stuns."
"I wasn't a throwing' stuns as I know on when I said
was a queer world-for 't is-specially that part on't
called Wiggletown. Scrabble Hill don't seem to be
such a soft of a place at all, as fur as I 'm able to judge.
I think the inhabbiters is quite intellectible, as a gin-
eral thing-and uncommon perlite, tew. I 'in qinte
pleased with the Scrabble Hill folks. There 's Dr.
Lippincott-he 's quite a science man, I should think,
from the way he talks."
"Mabbe he is..Zcan't say-for I can't understand
much o' what he says, he talks so big."
6

I
I


122   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

"I shouldent wonder if you couldent-but that ain't
no sign nobody can't. I was quite pleased with him,
and his wife, tew-they seemed so friendly-took such
an interest in my health, and was so consarned about
*    my cough that night they called on me."
"Yes-I guess they 'Ve got an idee your a rich wid-
*    der, livin' on the interest o' yer money-husband says.
ther 's such a story. 'round-shouldent wonder if hus-
band started it himself; jist to see what would be the
effect on 'to"
"I shouldent notlaer, he 's so full o' mischief-but
*   you don't s'pose)J~at 's what makes the Pdabodys, and
the Buels, an the Fusticks, and the Ilugles so perlite
tow me~ dew ye ?"
"0 I~ain't no rite to say 'tis-I 'm sure I 'm glad
they 're so attentive-it '11 make yer visit pleasanter."
"Jest so-seems to me Miss Deacon Fustick 's a
singular woman-she seems to be entirely took up with
the 'antktea-and-coffee society'.-.talked to me all, the
time' she was here about it-said I might depend on
that all that made me so thin, and have such a cough,
was drinkin' tea and coffee. If she runs me so every
tinaeI see her I guess I shall keep clear on her-for 1
won't giv&amp; up my tea and coffee for her nor nobody
else."
"0 lawful sakes! - Ye needent be afeard o' that,-
she 'II be on to somethiAg new aCore long. She takes
up every thing that comes along, and gits all engaged

122

-         I

DiSOOUILSfl O~ VARIO1~S TOPICS. 128
about it. A spell ago she was wide awake against
Sabbath-breakin', and didn't talk about nothing' else-
then 't was moral reform-next come Milerism'-."
"Now that makes me think of old mother Gre~n
in Wiggletown. You remember old Jabe Green 's
wife !-she was always jest so carried away with every
new thing, ye know. Tew or three years ago, when
Millerism was makin' such a noise ther was a feller
along lecturing' about it-and a nuniber 0' the Wiggle..
town folks raly thought ther was something in it. flut
old Miss Green was clear killed up with. it. She give
up all bigness, and dident dew nothia' but traipse
round from house to house a takin' on about the eend
o'the world-'t was a comm' afore long. Well-one
day ~he come into Sam Pendergrasses-'t was aforo
old Miss ?endergrass; Sam's mother, died. She was
a livin' with 'em-and ye know she was a woman
that always minded her own bizness. Well-she sot
ther at her loom a weaving' away-i--she was a great
hand to weave, ~the old lady was. Sam's wife was a
setting' there tew-.'t was Sam's wife told me about it.
Well-Miss Green she sot down in the rocking' cheer,
with her face half a, yard long, an she hauled out her
snuff.boz (she was an all-to-pieces snuff ta er ye know)
and she begun to snuff: and rock, and rock and snuft
as hard as ever she could, and every once in a while
she ~d heave a terrible sythe. Byme-by says she,
'Miss Pendergrass, do you expect to finish, that web?'


124   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

'a
f

'Well, I rather guess I shall,' says the old lady, says
she, 'if I live.' 'If you live,' says Miss Green, 'that 's
the pint-rfor my part I 'ye sot my house in order, and
I 'm ready to go any minni~, and I wish you could
say the same. It 's raly a moloncolly sight to see you
so occupied with the consarns o' this world that 's jest
a comm' t~ and cend. I don't see how you can set
there a weavin' a piece o' cloth when the day o' the
Lord 's so nigh at ]aana,' and she took a enormous pinch
p' snuff, and gi'n a dretful groan. 'Well,' says old
Miss Pendergrass, says she~ 'I 'm glad you feel so sar-
tin about yer condition-I 'd as lieve the Lord would
find me a weavin' cloth as a takin' snuff."'
"Well, that was a good un! It ought to stopped
the old woman's mouth and sot her a thipkin'. Miss
Fustick is some such a woman in some respects."
"I was pleased to hear Cappen Smalley take up
agin her in favor o' tea and coffee, t' other night, in to
Miss Grimes's. By the way, Cappen Smalley 'S quite
an intellectible m&amp;n, ain't he ?"
"Why, yes-he knows enough. It kind o' strikes
me he 's a stepping' up to Charity~-seems to go there
considerable."
"You'don't! Well ther 's no accounting ' for taste;
I dew say. I should a took the capped for a man
better judgment than to be pleased with such a critter.
Don't you think she 's awful disagreeable ?"
"Well, I must say I don't admire her no great"

DISCOURSE ON VARIOUS TOPICS. 125
"And then she 's so awful humbly tew. What a
draw up nose she 's got! And she 's so terribly af~
fected and stuck up. I took a dislike tew her the
first time I ever see her-when she come in here with
her mother. The wider 's a skew-jawed one rta-
ble looking' old critter, ain't she ?"
"Yes-and no wonder; for she '5 tew stingy to feet
comfortable, and of course she can't toolc so. You
was sayin', a spell ago, that I thought every body was
dretful nice, and dretful clever, and I told ye ther was
some folks I had a terrible mean opinion of-~well, the
Wider Grimes is one on 'em-she 's the meanest
woman in the neighborhood."
"Is, hay I Well I reckoned whether or no she wasn't
when I seen her."
"And Charity 's a chip o' the old block. They git
their livin' by visiting' and borrerin'. They keep that
little black girl o' their on a trot the heft o? the time
-runnin' after a little piece o' butter here, a half a loaf
o' bread there, and a little o' this that and t' other in
another place-and they ain't everlastin' partickler
about payin'. They border a good deal o' me, and I
generally let 'em have it. 'T ain't much they ax for
at once; and I hate to refuse when I 'ye got it in the
house. They send every few days for a slice or tew
of bread, and so it goes on for some time-till what
they 'ye got amounts to mabbe, half a dozen loave~-~
and then the little nigger comes in with a loaf o' bread,

I


126    WIDOW BBDOTT PAP]~RS.

and says she, 'Missy Grimes sends this loaf o' bread
a~id wants Missy Magwire to ta/ce off what's ~i'i{ght.
The, last time she sent hum bread in that way.---only
a few days ago-husband was in---I took the loaf and
was a gwine to cut off a piece as usual-but husband
laid his hand on my arm, and says he, 'Stop, Melissy
-don't you cut that-here, SnowZ~al4 take it hum
and tell Miss Grimes 't wouldn't be right to take off
none on.'t.' I don't know whether they took th6 hint
.-..time 'U show. But I got rid o' ther borrerin' coffee
the slickest-or rather husband clid-'t was his dew-
ins. They used to send about once a week after
co~ee-and once in a while they 'd send hum a cup
full, ready ground-and of all things! such miserable
stuff I never laid my mouth tew! 't was as black as
cUrt. I biled some on 't nce or twice, and then I gin
it up-for husband or Jeff wouldn't nary one on
'em touch it-they d dared 't wasn't nothing' but burnt
bread-crusts. At last, one day when Miss Grimes
sent hum some coffee, husband happened to be in.
After the nigger 'd gone he says to me, says he, 'Now,
Melissy, you save that coffee, and the next time Miss
Grimes sends to border, jest give it tew her.' Well,
't want long afore they sent agin. Pianny come in
with her cup and said Missy Grimes had company
come unexpected, and hadent no coffee burnt, and
wanted to git a little. So I goes to the cubberd and
fetches out the same old stuff and gives it tew her.

126

~1
A

DISCOURSE ON VARIOUS TOPICS. 127
I tell ye I felt r~ither mean when I gi'n it tew her,
but then I 'd promised husband I[ would, and besides,
I kind o' wanted to see how 't would operate. That
was three months ago, and they hadn't sent for coffee
sence."
"Well that was about the cutest thing Ii ever heerd
o' your dewin, Melissy. You served 'em right. But
ain't it curus 't Cappen Smalley should be pleased with
Charity? wonder if he knows how mean they be i"'
"If he did 't would be a recommendation tew him."
"What! Capped Smalley ain't a tight man, is lie?"
"Tight! yes, tight as the skin tew his back."
"Well, now, I am beat! Why how uncommon
good and generous he talked t' other night, when lieT
come in to Parson Tuttle 's, when we was there to tea
-seemed to be so engage every menevolent opera-
tion."
"Yes, he 's famous for within' 't every body might
be warmed and clothed; but somehow or another he
nev&amp; hands over. Whenever any body goes tew him
with a subscription-paper, he always seems highly de-
lighted with it-~says it 's an excellent objick..-an
objick he feels wonderfidly interested in.-he does
hope they '11 succeed in raisin' enough for 't-'t would
be shameful if they didn't. But he 'd rather not put
his name down-he has an aversion to makin' a dis-
play-he wishes they 'd go ~ll round and raise what
they can, and if they don't git enough, come to him,


128 WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

and he '11 makeup what 's lacking . Somehow or another
it don't often happen 't he ~s called on to make up
what 's lacking : when he is, he 's generally missin'.~
Parson Tuttle don't seem to see through him yet-he
thinks he 's a wonderful charitable man."
"Speakin' o' Par~on. Tuttle-~-seems to me he ain't
very ~deep."
"0, Parson Tuttle 's considerable of a man; he 's
young yet, but I think he 's got a good deal o' stami-
fly in him. He 'll improve as he grows older.~'
"Well, whether he improves or not, it 's my opin-
ion he won't never be able to hold a candle to Elder
Sniffles."
"Granf'ther grievous! you ain't in earnest, Silly ?"
"I be tew. I think Elder Sniffles is equil to Parson
Potter."
"Well, I 'II give it up now. I always thought the
A elder was rather of a dough-head."
"Kothin' but prejudice, Melissy-.nothin' in. the
world but prejudice, 'cause he happens to belong to a
different seek from yourn-Yt ain't right to be so set in
yer way."
"Deary me, Silly! seems to me you '.rc got to pa)
wonderful ;Corbearin', lately; you used to blaze away
about the Baptists terribly."
"I know I didn't use to like 'em much, but 'V was
'cause I didn't know much about 'em, and husband
you know, couldn't bear 'em.,~

128

DISO0URS~ OI~ VARIOUS TOPICS. 129
Well, I disremember about that; but I dew remem-
be~ o' hearing' you blow hi~n Up once for gwine to Bap-
tist meetiti'."
"Well, I say for 't, your memory 's wonderful good
,~~~c~,onsiderable better 'ti mine. Any how-s'posen a
body does dislike a sartin seek, and express ther senti-
ments agin 'em-is that any reason, why they should-
ent be open to conviction, and alter ther minds con-
sarniti' em 2"
"To be sure not~-but it does seem queer to me
you should be so eat up with Elder Sniffles, when you
hadn't heerd him preach but once: but he 's wkldiwer
now, and I s'pose that makes his preaching' a good deal
interestiner. Shouldn't wonder if you 'd heerd he 'd.
lost his wife, afore you went to his meetin'-had.ent
ye? now, Silly, own up."
"Melissy Magwire! should like to know what
you mean to insinniwate. If I take a notion to go to
Baptist meeting' or any other meeting , I got a right to
dew it, and I will dew it as much as I 'm a mind tew,
and if my motives is impunged, I can't help it-that 's
all."
Enter .M~'. .Afaguire-"' What ye jawin', about, now 2"
"We wasn't a jawin', was we, sister Bedott? we
was only discussion. "
Oussin', hey? well, then, what was ye cussin?
about?"
"What a critter you be to misti.uderstand! I did.
6*


180

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

out say cwssin' , but dz~cussin'. We was discussion ' Elder
Sniffles-ye know Silly thinks he 's something super-
natral."
"Haw! haw! haw! what if Silly should git to be
a Baptist! wouldn't it be a joke, though? But look
here, Silly, you must be carful h6w ye set yer traps
for the elder-it might be c1t~ngerous to interfere with
Sally Hugle's pretensions. ]i'on't ye s'pose wife, that
Sally 's rather a squintin' that way ?"
"Well, I shouldent wonder if she was; I don't
s'pose she 'd have any SCTU6 objections to changing' her
condition. That are piece' of poetry o' hem, that cum
out in the paper last week, looked rather 7~inted, did-
out it ?"
"What! sister Magwire, you don't mean to say 't
Sally le writes poitry?"
"La sakes, yes! shewrites l2ushels on 'V-curus
kind o' poetry, tew. Thor 's some on 't comes out al-
most every week in the 'Scrabble Hill Luminary.'
She signs it 'flugeliner.' She generally calls 'em
C
sunnetst-Jeif says they ought to be called moonets,
c~tuse they 're always full o' stuff about the moon and
I
stars, and so on. She 's always groaning' away about
her inward griefs, and unknown miseries. I don't know
what to make on 't. Sally Hugle n~er had no par-
tickler trou1~le as I know on-~with~ 'Ii was her not
bein able to "ketch a. husband." I
"See, wife-what was that she writ on the death of

DISCOU1~$E ON VARIOUS TOPICS. 131
Elder Sniffleses wife? can't you remember some on. 't.
I thought that was about as rich ~as any thing o' hem
I 'd seen."
"Lemme see. I 'm sure I ~d ought to remember it;
for Jeff had it over all the time for about a week-~..'a
singing' it through his nose to the tune o' 'Saint Mar-
tins'-that goes shaken' up and down ye know, kind o'
sollem. Less see-seems to me this was the way, it
begun.-
'As droops the pale effulgent flower,
By wintry breezes tried-
So, in an unexpected hour,
Dear Missis Sniffles died.'
Now what comes next? Oh, I remember--
'No more her sorrowin' pardner hears
The voice he loved below-
While tears, unmitigated tears,
I~eveal his bosom's woe.
'In that respect such grief as hisen
Is different from my own,
Which, in my hears dark wouruful prison,
Lies ran1din~ unbelviown;'
- "Ther 's more on 't, bitt I forgit what 't is."
"That 's enough any way, wife-what 4o ye think
on 't, sister Bedott-s'pose ye could beat it ?"
"I should be' sorry if I couldent-why I could
make better poetry 'n that by throwing' an inkstand ai;
a sheet o' paper. I wonder if ~he expects the elder '11
be took with such stuff~ If he is~ I 'm mistaken."
"S'pose you take hold, then, and see if ye c~u't

1*


182   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

write her down-wouldent it be a capital idee, wife,
for Silly to write a piece o' poetry to the elder, and
have it printed in the 'Luminary.' Come on, Silly..-..
that you writ on Miss Crane's death was very touching ,
though it didn't seem to touch Mr. Crane much."
"Brother Magwire, I look upon 't as an insult, to
have old Crane's name mentioned in my hearin'~-com.
siderin' all the lies that 's told about him and me, and
all the trouble his disagreeable attentions gin me-and
I hope in futur you '11 keep silent on that oupleasant
subjick."
CL I beg yer pardon, sister Bedott. I forgot you was
so sore o~n that pint. But I 'm in earnest about that
poetry. Why not try, and see if you can't beat 'Hu.
geliner' all holler."
"Seems to me you 're changed yer mind about my
poetry; you used to turnup yer nose at it."
"0, well, my taste improves as I git older. I ad.
mire poetry more 'n I used to:"
Well, 1 '11 show you some verses I writ a spell ago
on the Mexican War.-and see what you think on
'em." (She goes to bring them, and Mrs. Maguire re~
"Now, Joshaway, ain't you ashamed o' yerself I
You 'd ought to know better 'n to go to putting' Silly
up to writing' poitry-.-.flrst we know she '11 be a sending'
some of her stuff to the 'Luminary,' and it 'II make
her iidi~]d1o~ and us tew."

DISCOURSE ON VARIOUS TOPICS. 183
"Don't fret your gizzard, Melissy. Nobody won't
think nothing she does is ridickious-for ye know its
generally thought she's a rich wider, and every body 'Ii
be ready to swaller her poitry.-I don't care if it; 's the
tarnalest mess o' stuff that ever was put togeti ."~r."


WRITES TO ELDER~SNIFFLES.

xli'.
DEAR ELDER:
J DON'T know but what you 'II consider it rather
forward in me to trouble you with this pistol, bein'
as I ~me a most ~a stranger; but I hope youle over~
look my apparent want of audition, land attribit this
communication to the oncomm~n interest I take in
your welfare. Sence the first time I heerd you preach,
I 'ye had had an undescribeible desire ~o hey some
privit conversation with you, in regard to the state o'
my mind-your discourse was so wonderful searchin'
that I felt to mourn over my backslidden state o'
stewpidity, and my consarn has increased every time
I 'ye sot under the dropping's o' your sancVuery. Last
night when I heerd o' your sickness, I felt wondeift.il
overcome; enable to conceal my agitation, I retired
to my chamber, and bust into a flood o' tears. I felt
for you, Elder Sniffles-I felt Tor you. I was won-
derful exercised in view of your lone condition. 0,
it 's ~ terrible thing to be alone in the world? I know

all about it by experience, for I 'ye ben parduerless
fo~ nigh twelve year; it 's a tryin' thing, but I thought
't was better to be alone than. to run enny resk-for
you know it '5 running' a grate resk to take a second}
companion, espesheily if they ain't decidedly pious-.
and them that's tried to persuade me to change my
condition, didn't none on ~em give very satisfactory
evidence of pioty-'t ain't for me to say how;. menny
I 'ye refused on account o' ther want o' religion.
According' to my notions, riches and grander ain't to
be compared to religion, no how you can fix it, and
I always told 'em so. But I was a tellin' how over-
come I was when I heerd o' your bein' attacked with
influenzy. I felt as if I must go right over and take
care of you. I wouldent desire no better. intertain-
ment than to nus~ you up, and if 't wa'n'V for the
speech o' people, I 'd fly to your relefe instanter; but
I know 't would make talk, and so I feel neces~iated to
stay away. But I felt 80 consarned about you, that
I couldent help writing' these few lines to let you know
how anxious I be on your account, and to beg o' you
to take care o' yerself~ 0, elder,, do be carefu.i-.--the
influenzy 's a dangerous epidemic, if you let it run on
without attending' to it in season. Do be kerful-con-
sider what a terrible thing 't would be for you~ to be
took away in the height of yer usefulness; and 0,
elder, nobody wQuldent feel yer loss with more inten-,
situde than what I should, though niebby I hadeut

Ii

135

/


136    WIDOW BEDOt~T FArERS.

ought to say so. 0, Elder Sniffles, I feel as if I
couldent part with you, no how. I 'me so interested
in your preaching , and it~ had such a wonderful at-
tendency to~ subdew my prejudices against your de-
nomination, and has sot me a considering~ whether or
no I wasn't in the wrong. 0, reverend elder, I intreat
you to take case o' yer preshus helth, send you
herewith a paper o' boneset, you. must ~make some
good stiff tea out, and drink about a 4~iart to-night
afore 'you retire. Molasses and vinegar 's .a good
thing too for a cold or coff; jest take~ about a pint o'
molasses and bile it down with a teacup of vinegar
and a hunk o' butter as big as a hen's egg, and stir in
about a half a teacup full of pepper sass, and eat it
down hot jest afore ' bedtime-and take a strip o'
flannil, and rub some hog's lard on 't, though goose
ile 's about as good, and iin it round yer throte right~
off; and I send likewise a bag o' hops; you must dip
it in bilin' vinegar; and lay~ on yer chist when you
go to bed, and keep a dipping' on 't as fast as it begins
to git cool; and jest afore you git into bed, soke yer
feet in bun' hot water with some red peppers in it;
now don't forgit notb4n~ I 'ye proscribed. But I was
a tellin' how exercised I felt last night when I heard
o' your sickness. I went immejitly to my' chamber,
and gin way to my grefe in a violent flood' of tears.
I retired to my couch o' repose, but my agitation
perv'eutod my sleeping . I felt quite a call to. express

WRITES TO ELDER SNIFFLES. 137
my feeling's in poitry-I 'me very apt to when enny
thing comes)xver me-so I riz and. lifted my candle,
and composed these stanzys, which II hope ill be
agreeable to you.
0 reverend sir, I do declare,
It drives me a' most to frenzy,
To think o' you a lyin' there
Down sick with inhluenzy.
A body 'd a thought it was enough
To mourn yer wife's departed,
Without such trubble as this 'ere
To come a follerin' arter.
But sickness and affliction is trials sent
By the will i' a wise creation,
And always ought to be underwent
With fortitude and resignation.
Then mourn not for yer pardner's deatl4
But to submit endevver;
For s'posen she hadent a died so soon,
She couldn't a lived forever.
0, I could to your bedside IIy,
And wipe yer weepin' eyes,
And tiy my best to cure you up,
If 't wouldent create surprise.
It's a world o' trial we tarry in-
* But elder, don't despair;
That you may soon be movin' agin,
Is constantly my prayer.
Both sick and well, you may depend
Youle never be forgot,
By your faithful and affectionate friend,
Px~xscxr~LA PooL BEDoTr.
P. S. My nefew, Jefferson Magwire, will hand YOU
this epistol. I shortid be~wonderful happified to re-
'I


/

18

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

cove a few lines from you when you git able, jest to
show whether or no you think me forward in address-
in' you in this manner.             P. P. B.
P~ S. Now do be cerful o' yerseli; dear elder-ex
cuse me for calling' you dear, it came out afore I was
aware on't-don't fail to fuller my directions, espe.
shelly about the boneset; it 's the sovereinest cure in
nater for influenzy-and be shure to soke yer feet in
the hot water and peppers-ther ain't nothing' like it
to fetch down infermation-and bind up yer throte in
the iled fiann~l-it prevents swellin'-and I wouldn't
have you forget to use the hop-bag, for nothin'-jest
keep a pan o' hot vinegar on top o' yer stove, and dip
the bag in it about once in ten minnits, all night-.
it '11 give you such a good night's rest-hops is
sleepyfyin'. Committing' you ~to the care o' creation,
and hopin' youle be about agin in a few days, I sine
myself yourn, with coxisarn,
P. P. BEDOTT.
ELDER SNIFFLES' REPLY.
MOST WORTHY MRS. BEDOTT:
Your communication of yesterday was duly re-
ceived at the hand ~of your nephew. At the period
of its reception, I was laboring under too great a
degree of corporeal prostration to dictate an immedi-
ate response. But at present, feeling nay physical con-

ELDER, SNI1~'FLES' REPLY.

139

edition to be, to some extent, ameliorated, I hasten to
respond. Accept my most unquahi3ed acknowledge.
ments for the interest which you apparently take in
my welfare-and for the articles which you so kindly
transmitted by your nephew. Permit me, also, to
assure you of my abundant gratification at the assur-
ance that my unpretending discourses haA~en the
feeble instrument of exerting a salutary influence upon
your mind. I feel, most deeply do I feel, that I am
but a poor unworthy worm of the dust; and it serves
but to augment my humiliation to reflect that my
labors in the field have been so signally blessed. Your
remedies, most excellent madam, I have applied in
accordance with your directions; and it affords me
no inconsiderable satisfaction to be able to say that I
think I can safely affirm that their effects~upon my
system have been salubrious; and I can but indulge
the hope that they will tend to my ultimate restore~
tion. I must not, however, omit to mention, that I did
no~ realize, to the full extent, the efficacy of the hop-
ba~; for after having arisen agreeably to your direc-
tions, some five or six times~{it may 4 seven, i will
not venture to speak positively as to the number) and
immersed the hop-bag in the b6i~ing vinegar, I re-
gret to say that I unintentiona1ly~ell into a state of
unconsciousness, from which I unhappily did not
awake until morning. Owing to this tixifortunate oc-
currence, I probably did not enjoy the refreshing

I


140   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

repose which a constant application of the hot hop.
bag would have afforded. However, notwithstand.
ing this unintentional neglect, I am. happy to state
that the virulence of my attack is decidedly abated.
I acknowledge myself deeply indebted for the poem
which accompanied your communication. It was
truly gratifying to my feelings. Your remark therein
embodied, that "we tarry in a world of trial," is a
very just one-very, indeed. This is incontrovertibly
a life of trials-of disappointments and fluctuations,
sent, undoubtedly, for~ the fortification of our faith.
It will afford me most unmitigated pleasure to ~on
vese with you privately, in regard to your mind, and
to give you such instructions upon doctrinal points
as may be necessary and conducive to your spiritual
edification. With that view, I invite you to call at
my residence~ on Friday evening next, when, if no
unforeseen contingencies intervene to prevent, and my
corporeal condition continues to improve, I shall be
unoccupied and most happy~to attend to your case,
and enlighten you in relation to such inquiries as you
maybe pleased to propound.
With sentiments of unmitigated regard
I remain your obliged friend,
0. SHADRAOK SNIFFLES.

XIV.
"X1~fHERE you gwine, sister Bedott ?"
"Well, I thought II 'd go to t'arson Tuttle's
Friday evening' lecture "
"Why ther ain't none. Don't you z~member Mr.
Tuttle said last Sunday that lie 'd got to be away to.
day, and. the lecture 'd be omitted?"
"0, sure enough-so he did. But come to think
-don't you remember he said the brethern and sisters
might meet and have a season o' prayer?"
"0, yes-he did says so. But lawful sa1~es! I don't
think it 's very edifyin' to go set a hull evening' and
hear Deacon Fustick and Deacon Peabody and old
Parker hold forth."
"Nor I another. But then I think it 's my duty to
go once in a while. Ye know Seripter says we inns n't
forsake the as~emblin' of ourselves together. I guess
I'll go tew night"
(She departs and proceeds to Elder Sniffles rosi.
denee.)          -


.142
(

WIDOW BEDOTT PAI'flRS.

"Good evening , Elder Sniffles. You see I 'm punc.
table to the time. I always make it a~pint to be. I
think punetabii.vy 's very important."
"A very just remark, Mrs. Bedott-it is so-and I
am most happy to receive you this evening."
"Well, how 's your health now? Convalessin', I
hope?"
"It affords me the most unmitigated satisfaction to
be able to- state that my corporeal system has, in a
great measure, recovered its usual tone."
(With much fervor.) "0 how thankful I be to hear
you say so, Elder Sniffles. You can't 'have the re-
Inotest idee 0' my anxiety on your account, and how
delighted I feel to find you so much better, and I
hope you 'ye recovered yer tone~so 's to be able to sing
agin. It 's a great blessing , to sing when a body has
such a powerful v&amp;ice as yourn. I 'ye observed it a
Sabberdays in meeting' . 0 how uneasy I 'ye been
about you. whenl thought you might be took away,
and me never hear you preach no more. I felt as if I
couldent submit to 't no how. 'T was a dretful sub-
jick o' retrospection to think o' your dissolution. I
was wonderful glad to git yo'ux letter, and know 't you
dident think I 'd overtopt the bounds of propriety in
writing' to you. I was so feared you would. But I
felt so consarned for fear you wouldn't be corhfortable
and have such care as you'd ought :tewlivin) all
aIQile so..-nobody in the house but a little chore-gal---..

RESOI~T~ TO ELDER S~IF1~'LE5.

143

A

and what does she know about taking care of a sick
man?"
'"0, Sally does very well. As a general thing she
discharges the duties devolving upon her with fidelity
and-"
"As fur as you know, undoubtedly-but 't ain't
]ikely you know jest how things goes on. I never
know'd a gal~ o' her age but what ~wanted watching'
every minnit. You can't trust 'em they 're such
highty-tighty critters. And then the best on 'em
wants a head to oversee 'em ~all the time-the very
best on 'em can't dew for you as a pardner would.
0, when an indiwiddiwal 's sick then 's the time they
feel the want of a companion, and ministers is so apt
to git sick, ye know."
"A very just remark, ma'am-very indeed. Our
profession is arduous. I niyself am the subject of
frequent valetudinary attacks-the effects, undoubted-
ly, of intense application."
"Jest so. I remember Parson Potter, our minister
in Wiggletown, used to have a great many poor turns,
clispepshy-like--his vittals distress him."
"He was a Presbyterian clergyman, I suppose."
"Yes. lie labored in Wiggletowii ten years.. My
husband was deaeon all the time he was there. IDied
about a year after Parson Potter left thhe.. Husband
used to have such attacks as yourn, tew. lie enjoyed
miserable health for a number o' year afore he died.


144      WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
He was a feeble constitution man. I s'p~se he
wouldent a livedno wher nigh as long as he did if I
hadent a ben undefateegable in takin' care of him.
0, how I did watch 'that man! For six or seven
years afore his dissolution I gi'n up my hull time tew
him. The neighbors used to say, 'Miss Bedott, you'll
sartinly wear herself out takin' care 0' the' deacon.~
'Well,' says I,' it 'II be in a good cause if I dew. I
consider it a duty and a privilege to devote myself to
my husband. I don't want no better occerpation.'
And 'twas a wonderful comfort tew me after his
disease, to think I I~acI been so devoted. 0 elder,
mine was a dretful loss ~ I 'ye always felt as if
't would be very difficult to make it up to me. My
friends has wondered at me for continiwin single
so long, but, as I observed in my letter, IL always
told 'em 't was a very resky bisness to take a second
pardner, very resky, indeed. Don't you think so,
elder?"
"I do, indeed; the selection of a consort, either
first or second, is a matter of immense importance,
and involves consequences of tremendous magnitude.
In my opinion, it-"
"I says to 'em, says I, when they was a teazin' me
to git married agin, I says to 'em, says I, don't speak
on 't, don't-I 'ye had one o' best o' men for a pard.~
nor, and I lived in the greatest conjugal felicitude
with him; ~and that 's the reason why I 'in so pertick-

RESORTS TO ELDER SNIFFLES. 145
br now-piety 's every thing-don't you think so,
Elder Sniffles ?"
"A very just remark, Mrs. Bedott-piety is every
thing, truly. Your late consort was, undoubtedly, a
pious individual; though, as you begin to perceive,
being a Presbyterian, he must necessarily have held
some vi&amp;ws which undoubtedly were-were-"
"Yes-'--husband was rather sot in his way, and
that 's the reason why IL never got enlightened on some
pints-husband always thought every thing Parson
Potter said was jest right; and Parson Potter was a
wonderful prejudiced man. He writ a couple o' sar.
mons against the Baptists, and had 'em printed; and
husband used to read 'em over and, over again. Yes
~ ain't to be denied that husband was mistaken on
some doctrinal pints-my mind has beew wonderfully
exercised about it lately."
"I should judge so from your letter; and I trust-~-"
"Ever sence the first .time I heerd you preach, I've
felt uneasy; I says to my nephew Jefferson Magwire
-(ye know he went with me to ~he meetin'-Jeff,
aays I, I feel as if I must'hear Elder Sniffles conv~rse.
You see, Jeff had been a tellin' me afore we went
what an interesting' preacher you was; but I '4 no idee
[should be so much affected-mabby you observed
I was quite overcome at one part o' the discourse;
't was when you dwelt upon the changeable natur of
arthly ~happiness.-.the onsartinty of every thing-it
'7

I

I


Ii
ii
V

wi1~oW ]3EDOTT PAPERS.

touched a tender pint. I thought how it applied to
my case-my circumstances is so changed-alone in
the world-without a sympathizing' buzzom to lean on
-nobody to take any pertickler interest in me." [She
covers her face with her handkerchief, and appears
much agitated.]
"But Mrs * Bedott, in this mundane sphere, we
should endeavor to be prepared for the innumerable
fluctuations which-"
"I 'm aware on 't, Elder Sniffles-I 'm intirely
aware o' the truth o' what you observe; but then you
'know an indiwiddiwal in my ~ittiwation has so many
onpleasat things to encounter; if they 're ever so ker-
full, folks will talk and say they 're a gwine to change
ther condition-and be all the time a picking' out this
one and that one for 'em-when they hadn't no more
idee o' changing' ther condition than they have o' flyin'.
And th5n ther 's another dretful trial we have to un-
dergo; dew what we will, we can't git red o' the im-
partinent attentions o' the men folks. If we 're ever
so stiff and haughty tew 'em, 'they won't seem to mind
it a speck; they will keep a makin' ~up tew us-and
you've no idee how disagreeable 't is-'t was the prin-
cipal cause o' my leaving' Wiggletown. As long as
my 8on t~nd darter was with me, I felt as if 't was my
duty to stay there-hut when they got married and
left. me, it seemed as if I couldent stan' it no longer-
not that I 'ye got any thing ~o say against the mdi-

146

RESORTS TO ELDER.. SNIFFLES. 147
widiwals that was pleased with me-'t wasn't their fault
that I wasn't suited with ary one on 'em; but 't was
very unpleasant to be the objick o' their preference,
when I couldn't recipperate none o' ther feelins-.and
~was determined never to unite my destination to a per-
son that was destitute o' religion. 'T was a tryin' siti-
watjon to be placed in: but dear me! it 's awful tryin'
to be ,without a companion, as I remarked in some
stanzys I was a writing' 't other day.
What sittiwation cane be wuss
Than not to have nobody to care for 'zts/
Riches and honors that most folks prize,
Ain't of no vally in my eyes
In comparison with a congenial heart,
In all our con~arns to take a part;
To recipperate all our buzzom's emotions,
And to take the-lead in our daily devotions.
"Ain't them your sentiments, elder ?"
"They are so, Mrs. Bedott; the society of a Conge-
nial spirit is truly desirable. In particular, I consider
congeniality of sentirn~its to be indispensable as re-
gards religious opinions; and as you have expressed a
desire to receive some instructions relating to doctrinal
points-"
"Yes, I have felt very much exercised lately. I 'ye
felt to! deplore t~iy lukewarmness and want o' zea],
but especially I 'ye felt to mourn over my former prej-
udices against your se9k: but you see I 'ye always ben
placed under onfortinate circumstences-circumstences
that 's had an attendency to exart an unfavorable im.


148

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

i~I
Li
~11
I"'
ii

fluency on my religious faith; and it actilly seems as
'if the hand o' Providence was in my comm' here to
Scrabble 11111, instid'o' conchidin' to go to Varmount
to my brother, Christopher Columbus Poole's. They
wanted I should come there, but somehow another I
felt a loud call to come here. I speak on 't in another
stanzy o' the same poem. I alluded tew jest now. I
says, says I-.
Yes, sartin there was~a providence in it,
And I shall always bless the minnit
That fixed my choice on Scrabble lull,
Instid o' the town o' Buttonville-.
S'po~en I 'd' a went to Buttonville, and stayed all win-
ter, inside o' comm' here-how differ~iit my circum-
stences would a ben. 0, Elder Sniffles, what a privi-
lege 't is to set Sabberday after Sabberday under your
preaching , and to be permitted to come to yer house
and injoy the benefit o' hearing' you converse on relig-
ious subjicks. I dew feel as if Icouldent be thankful
enough. 'The day you was .t' our house to dinner, I
was wonderfully interested in yer conversation. I
s'pose you observed I was rather tackcitlrn most o'
the' time-.'t was cause I felt under considerable con-
straint. Sister Magwire and her husband is very well
meanin' folks, but they're dretful narrer minded and
sot in ther way. I don't never feel free to express my
~ md afore 'em as I 'd like tew-you know a body
n't when they 're so sittiwated-."

RESORTS TO ELDER SNIFFLES. 149
"Exactly-a very just remark-in order to enjoy
the entire benefit of intellectual or religious discourse,
an individual must be wholly unrestrained. The pre-
sent occasion, therefore, is one suited to-."
"Yes, felt so gratified when I got your letter and m-
vitation to come round here to-night. 0, thinks me,
what a blessed. privilege 't is-I dew hope .1 'preciate
'C
it-but Q, elder, elder, what if it should git out that I
cc4 here al&amp;ne, and in the evening ! What would
som\~ folks say? You know their's so many that 's
ready to ketch up every little thing,' and make the
most on 'to Gracious sakes alive! what should I dew
if the story should get round that~ Ii was setting' my cap
for you! and I know 't would if Sally Hugle should
find rn~i.t I come here to-night-they say she 's a dret-
ful. meddlin' critter, and I 'm stire she don't feel none
o' the frenliest to me; I s'pose it 's cause I hain't shew-
ed no great anxiety to cul'W4lvate her society. The fact
is the minnit I first set my eyes on her, I made up my
mind she wa'n't a person Icared about havin' for an
intimit: her countenance is so disagreeable. I should
know she had an unpleasant disposition thinks me
she 's got grit and no mistake. Brother Magwire says
he shoi4d pity any man that would be draw'd in by
her, cause she~s so lazy. They say when she ain't ~
spiI~nin' street yarn, she don't dew nothing' but write
poetry; her mother and sister Polly has the hull heft
o'~the housekeeping' -on their shoulders. Now I say


~iI1
~'iI
~Ii

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

:111
~

4

150

I
ii
q
74
U
ii
p
11

them ain't no need o' negleetin' yer duties to write poi.
try: for I 'ye writ a sight on 't in my day-enough, I
should say, to fill a bushel basket-and nobody can't
say 't Ii ever allowed it to inter~feme with my domestic
consamns. A body can write poetry and be industrous
tew. And massy on me! such poetry as hem! did
you ever I-but 't ain't for me to crittycise other folkses~
writing's, nor I don't want to say nothing' deroggery to
Sally Hugle-.only £ dew hope she nev~r '11 find out
about my comm' here. 0, Elder Sniffles, I 'm a lone
woman; them ain't nobody to ~tan' up for my rights,
if the voice o' slander should be raised against me,"
[She weeps.]
"Be calm, Mrs. Bedott-{he approaches and sits
down beside hem]-pemmit me to assure you that your
apprehensions are utterly groundless. You. are quite
too sensitive-quite. It is no unusual circumstance for
individuals .of your sex to resort to me for religious
instruction and private conversation in regard to the
state of their minds."
"Does Sally Hugle evei~ come~for private conversa-
lion?"
"I believe-.indeed-it strikes me that Miss liugle
has done so once or twice."
"0, Elder Sniffles, beware of that critter. Depend
on 't 't ain't for the sake o' gittin instruction she comes.
It 's jist4~r to insiniwate herself into you.r favor-.-and
jw~gin' from what I 'ye seen and heerd of her, I

9

/
RESORTS TO ELDER Si{IFFLES. 151
shouldent wish n~y worst innemy a greater cuss
than to git her for a paidner. Old maids always
makes miserable wives-and of all things, to think o'
such a person as Sally Hugle bein' united to a man
like Elder Sniffles! ~A man that ought to have the
very salt of the arth for a companion. 0, its awful I
'T w~uld put an eend to your usefulness, depend on
"Oom~ose yourself my dear madam. Your fears
are unfounded. The interest which you take in my
welfare touches me deeply. If the period should ever
arriv~ when I shall deem it essential to select a second
consort, believe me, II shall-"
"0, Elder Sniffles I"
"I shall proceed with the utmost caution and pm"
dence."
[A hurried knock is heard at the door.]
"There! some body 's a comm'. II must go."
"Well, allow me to entreat you to lay aside all ap~
prehensions, and resort to me whenever you wish. to
unburden your mind, or receive religious instruction."
"I 'mvery much obleeged. to ye, Elder Sniffles, very
much, indeed. I feel as if y&amp;ixr conversation this
evening' had -done me a great deal o' 'good."
J


11
if!
I
I,

CONCLUDES TO PUBLISH.

xv.
"SEE here, Aunt Bedott, here's another poem by
Eugelina."
"Is, hey? What's' she groanin" about now? be
watched to die yet?"
seems to be a sort of a lament occasioned
by Elder Sniffles's sickness."
"You. don~t I now what a bare-faced critter she is
to come right out so in the face and eyes of all creation
ain't it astonishing ? She 's purty late in the day
tew with her lamentin'...~the elder's got about agin-......
preached last Sabberday."
"Yes; but you know he was laid up Sunday before
last--.-and I suppose they dident get the poetry in time
to bring it out last week."
"Well dew read it, for pity's sake-.--.I want to hear
what the critter says."
SONNET.
C), lyre of mine, divulge thy saddest strain
In melancholy thunder~tones of woe!
Jn gloomiest accents deep of quivering pain,
Thy mournful numbers on the midnight throw!
A direful theme demands thy ~uguished flow:

For sighing on his lonely couch of grief,
Truth's champion languisheth without relief!
You vacant, voiceless desk proclaims aloud
The absence of his eloquential tongue,
~Which hcld in wondering chains the admiring crowd,
And carried conviction both to old and young.
The arduous duties of his sacred calling
Have caused this casuallity appalling,
While in dark weeds of crape my wailing lyre is hung!
,~ HuoxLu~A.
"Well now, if that don't beat alit did you ever see
any thing so redickilous in all your born days? you
may talk as much as you '~e a mind tew about 'hidden
meaning. ' I believe if there 's any meauln' at all in a
thing it 'Ii show out some wher-and for my part, I
can't see a speck nor grain o' sense in that are piece..
What on artli does the simpleton mean by blazing'
away so about her 'liar' and its 'thunder tones' and.
mourning ' weeds,' and all that? I should think Elder
Sniffles would feel insulted by such a mess o' stuff-~
shouldent you ?"
"0, no, I dare say he 'U consider ~it quite comply'
mentary; don't you. see she talks about his eloquence
..-drawing admiring crowds, and so forth? I guess
she means to catch the elder if she can; any how she
seems to be making a dead set at him, and I shoiild n't
wonder if she should. succeed."
"Well, if Sal ]3Iugle ketches Elder Sniffles with
such trash as that, I 'U give it up that 's all; but I
don't bleve she will: he ain't so big a fool as to have
the wool drawd over his eyes in that way."

.158


155

154   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

CONCLUDES TO 1'UBLISH.

"But you know she may possess other attractions
besides her poetical talents."
"Other attractions! goody grievous! I won~Ier what
they be! Of all creatQd critters she 's the dizagree-
alAest I ever see, and so awfully humbly I shouldn't
think she could feel comfortable. I guess she ~s one
o them that 's tew humbly to relish ther vittals. But
for all that, I bleve she thinks she 's quite handsome.
What a way she's got o' fixin' her hair-them great
long stringlets a danglin' down lier cheeks~her phiz-
mahogany's narrer. enough without 'em, I 'm sure. II
met her yesterday as I was gwine to ~the store, and
was as much as I could dew to keep from bustin'
right out a laughing' in her face. She had on that
are everlasting' red hood that shows the hull o' her
Lace, and her curls was a streaming' down over the
corners of her ~mouth, so 't a body 'd a ben pestered
to tell ~how far round it went; and she was a salin'
along like a goose~ in a mud ~uddle, with her great
eyes a stain' straight at nothing . She ?s got a way o'
looking' as if she was gazin' into fiitewrity~"
"That 's a mark of genius, you know....-a sign
that she lives in the shadowy regions of imagine~
(ion-.-" -
"Shaddery fiddle-stick ?"
"She was probably composing a sonnet when you
met her."
"Shoudent wonder if she was.-~.-she looked as iI

sI~e wag occupied with something' despirit. Well, if I
coulderEt make out better 'n she does, I 'd hang up my
fiddle-that 's all I"
"Well, aunty, why don't you write some poetry
for the 'Luminary?' come, suppose you try your
hand at it-you're great on
"0, I don't feel willing' to make myself so con-
spiciwUS.
"0 fudge!* that 's nonsen5e~eVerY one ought to be
willing to exercise their gift, you know."
"Well, it does look reasonable, but your mar always
discourages me about writing' poetry."
"What of that? father and I don't, and I'm sure
we're quite as competent judges as mother is. Come
now, if you '11 write a piece of poetry Iii 'II take it to
the 'Luminary' to-morrow before I go back to Coon-
vile. I know you can beat iTugelina. Mother.
needn't know any thing about it till it comes out, and
then she can't help herself?'
"Well, I don't know but what It will. I 'ye got a
piece begun that I think 's about as good as any thin'
I 'ye writ in some time. Mabby 1 'II finish that off
p
and send it."
What 's the subject ?"
"Well, it treats 'o' the onsartainty o' terrestriolis
things. 'T v~as occasioned by a remark in the first
sermon I eyer heard Elder Sni~eS preach. You know

L

11!!
~fi~
fit
U

)

154


158     WIDOW   BEDOTT PA.Pl~RS.

157

he spoke o' our bein' enable to calkilate with any
degree o' sartainty."
"0 yes, I remember it very well; that wo~ld be a
first-rate subject to write upon."
"I begin by alluding' to the elder's sarmon, and
then I goes on to testify to the truth on 't by showing'
how difflkilt 't is to make any kind o' calkilation
about any thing, bein' ~ all things of a transiterry
natur is so onsartin. But I '11 go get it and show it
tew ye. and then you can see for yourself Here 't is."
(Jeff reads it.)
"That's capital, Aunt Silly. Send it by all means.
I '11 copy it off in a larger hand, so that it can be read
more easily. And what shall we call. it? Suppose
we entitle it" Can't Calculate."
"Well, I should think that would be very appro-
briate."
"On second thoughts, I guess we'll just call it '2K. K.'
e.-~that stands for 'can't calculate,' you know......and
there 'II be something striking and original about it,
too."
"Jest so. Well, ~you may fix it out as you 're a
mind to'-but I '11 take it and add on a few more
etanzys first."
"0 no, you need n't, it 's plenty long enough......they
don't like to print long articles."
"Don't, hey? Well, it 5~O1~s as if 't wa'n1t hardly long
enough to pay a body fo~ the trouble o' reading' on 't."

CONCLUDES TO PUBLISH.

"Yes it is. It is~ii't so much the length of a poem
as the excellence of it that folks lo~ok at, ~you know."
"Well, II don't know but you 're, right, though I
remember how 't Zebidee Higgins used to write very
long pieces. He writ a good deal for the 'Wiggle-
town Banner,' and when Mina~vy Pike died he writ
a piece on her death, and had i printed alone by itself
on a big sheet o' paper, and sold 'em for a shillin'
apiece. Ther was risin' a hundred varses. on't. ii:
remember when he was a carrying' 'em around to sell,
he come t' our house, and husband bought one.
When he see how long 't was, he says, says he to Zeb,
'Why, Zebidee, what was yer object in havin' on't
so long?' Says Zeb, says he, 'Don't ye s'pose I
wanted folks should git the worthy' their money?'
But as I don't charge nothing' for this ere, 't ~in't so
much matter aboi4 its length, I s'pose. Tl~re, yer
mar 's a comm', stick it away for pity's sake."
*      *.    .*      *(     *      *      *
[Messrs. Gamble and Spratt, editors of the "Scrab-
ble Hill Luminary," discuss the merits of the widow's
poem.]
"See here, Gamkle.. What d' ye think! that
hatchet-faced old woman down at Maguire's has sent
us a piece o' pQetry."
"The dogs she has I Well, I swow I am beat now.
She looks as little like the votary of the musesr as any
body I ever saw. What for poetry is it?"

li

156


158    WIDOW ]3EDOTT PAPERS.

159

"I '11 be bound If I know what to make of it, and
soT told Jeff Maguire, who handed it in just now.
Jeff hays she 's quite an eccentric character, and i
should think,50 by this. I don't kn~yw what 's best to
do about it." [Gamble reads it.]
"Jupitei~! that 's rich, ain't it?"
"Don't exactly like to reject it----don't want to make
her mad-~they say she 's rich as mud-iivin' on the
interest of her money. What shall w~ do with the
thundering stuff?"
"Why, print it, to be sure. I '11 write a puff for it.
I 'm great on editorials, you know."
"Are you in earnest~ GamblaY"
Certainly I am. I think there 's more sense in it
than there is in Miss Hugle's poetry~ and you never
hesitate at all about accepting any thing from her."
"But hers sounds big, you know, and half the folks
in the world thinks that 's ~oetry whether ther 's any
sense in it or not."
"I know it, but 'ilugelina' is the only poetical con
,trilnttor wO have, and she 's almost worn out. I 'ye
puffed her and puffed her till I am almost tired of the
business. I should like a change. There 's something
decidedly new about this. You leave it to me, I '11
manage it. I confess you 're greater on politics, and
so forth, than I am, but it takes me to do up the fine
arts"
"Jeff seemed to be sorry not to find you in when

'A

T'O PUBLISH.

lie came. I suppose he saw that I hesitated a little
about taking it, and lie knew you would n'V-yOll'Te
both of you up to all sorts of deviltry-but he looked
as serious as a parson. I'll be hanged if I know
whether lie was in earnest about wishing us to publish
this plaguy stuff or not."
"In earnest? of course ~he was. If he wasn't, I
am. I never interfere with your department, and you
ought not to with mine. My voice is for the old gal
-so, hurra for the 'Editor's cona\nents."'
"It affords us the most~ indubitable pleasure to be
able~to enrich our 'Poet's Corner' of this week's Lumi-
nary with a gem from the pen of a new contribute]~.'
The extreme simplicity of the diction presents. a strik-
ing contrast to the more highly wrought and elabo-
rate style of our own gifted 'liugelina,' and strongly
reminds one of the effusiotis of the early masters of
English poesy, when the muse was in her pristine
purity. All worshipers of the truthful-the pure-
the earnest and the unadorned in poetry, will rejoice
I with us that a bri~iter day appears about to dawn
upon our poetical horizon, and that the tii~ae is proba-
bly not far distant when nature shall assert her supreni-
acy over art ut the dominionS of the ifltI~e. We
hope to hear often from our fair correspondent."

a

158


160

I

* WIDQW DEDO~VT PAPERS.
R. K.-CAN'T CALCULATE.
What poor short-sighted worms we be-...
For we can't Calculate
With any sort of sartintee,
What is to be our fi~te.
These words Prissilla's heart did reach
And caused her tears to 'low,
When first she heard the elder preach
About six monthss ago.
How true i hat he did state,
And thus affected he~,
That nobody can't calculate
What is a gwine to occur.
When we retire, can't calcttlLge
But What afore the morn
Our house will conflagger~te
And we be left forlorn.
Can't ~,alculate when we come in
From ary neighbor~' place,
Whether we '~1 ever go out agin,
To look on 4tur's face.
Can't calculate upon the weather,
It always c~b~r4es so;
* 't got no means of telling whether
gwineto rain or snow.p
Can't calculate with no precision
flaugl1t:beneat~ the sk7;
And so I 'ye come to the decision,
That 'taiu't worth while to try.

XVI.
".SAY sister Magwire, can't you spend time jest to
come here a minnit and look at my caps. I
want to ax you which I 'd better wear to-day.' I don't
want to wear it to meeting , cause my bunnit would
jam it all down-but I want to make up my mind
af'orehand about it so 's not to lose iio time when I
git 1mm. Come quick, dew.-the bell 'II ring in a
minnit. 0, here ye be; well, now tell, which o' these
caps is the becominest." -
"Why, y~u 'ye got a regim nt on 'em seems to me."
"Yes; IL 'm well on 't for cap but the half on 'em
was giv' tew me. Here 's one, th~bugh, 'tlmade my-
self~ I wore it to Kier's wedding . How does it
look?" (She puts it on.)
"Somehow, I don't like 'that much-it sticks up tew
high on top: and then them yeller bows looks so
kind o' dari~'; and then them red artifishels is rather
extensive. I reckon you look better without artifishels."
"Well, lemme try on this ere ~ Melissy it tew
me. ~'I always thought 't was quite, becoming .

I

I

6

. 3


a O

162

WIDo~ BEDOTT PAPERS.

"Well, I don't agree with ye, Silly. I think therLe 's
tew much ribbon on 't'-pink ribbon tew; don't you
think pink ribbon 's a'i~iost tew young for you ?"
"0, dretful suz, IMlelissy I what foolish idees you 'ye
got !-you 're always a takin' me to dew about dressing'
tew young. What ~s the use o' makin' an old woman
o' myself afore II be one? But conie to think, this
would be1 rather dressy for to~day~ seem' the minister 's
a COIinn'. See 'f ye like this ere any better.-.'t was a
present from Sam Pender~as~es wife, not long afore
II ~come away. I never wore it but once."
"Well I reckon that looks woss than the pink one
'-'blue makes you look kind o' squawy; you 're rather
dark completed. and blue 's a~ tryin. color for dark
skins.
"Well, I never thought Ii was so wonderful dark
complicated, IL 'in sure. I[ wonder if this one '11 suit
~ye any better. Kier's wife gin it tew me. If bain"t
never wore it at all; thought l[ shouldn't, 'cause it '~
so turrible old-womanish and quackery. I fetch't it
along, cause III thought mabby Seliny 'ci be mad if I
dident.-.-but I don't s~ee what on arth she meant by
givin' me such a looking' thing."
" INow, Silly, I don't see how you can talk so-for
my part, I like that better 'n ary one you 'ye tried on.
That are white satin trimming' looks so kind o' neat
and plain. It ~s a purty shape tew-...coines down fur-
der 'n the others onto yer face.-.--and that 's an i~in-

THANItSGIVING DAY.

I

168

provement, bein' as you 're rather long.favored. I 'd.
wear that by all means, Silly."
&amp; "You would 1-well now I am beat-why thor ain't
a color about it but white."
"All the better for that; it 's enough ginteeler 'n
them flabbergasted blue and yeller things;' and then
'the elder 's a comm', ye know."
"Jest so; well I guess I/~hl wear it considerili"-"
"And yer black silk gownd and muslin under-
handkercher-yoll look best in them of any thing
you 'ye got."
"Well, II. don't know but what I will-murder I
there 's the bell, and I hadn't begun to be ready; never
mind, I won't dress till I git hum; this ere allipacker
looks well enough to wear to meeting . I'll jest throw
on my mankiller and bunnit-'t won't take me long;
wish you could go Melissy-but I know ye can't and
git dinner 'tew; the elder 's a gwine to preach in your
meetin'-houSe, hey ?~-well,~that looks brotherly; Bap-
tists preach in your meetin'-hoiise one year-and your
minister preach in theirn the next-' like the idee.
Is my bunnit on strait? This gXtss makes me look
kind o' skew~jawed-neVOr know whether my things
is in decent order and regular rotation or not, when. IL
~it 'em on. flow does this ere scarf go? Where '~
brother Magwire and Jeff, IL wonder? How thought-
full 't was in J~ff to ax the elder here to dinner-lie 'd
a ben so lonesome to hum all alone. Melissy, IL begin

3

I
~i I
11
iii
1~i
1$
11


164

WID9O W B EDO TT PA PER S.

have considerable hopes o' Jeff--..shouldent wonder
Here hey hom urn out quite a stiddy man after all-.
*   *      *      *      *      *
"Eley Sifes, let me give you another piece o' the
reolec 'h oeged to you, Mr. Maguire; you probably
ngle that iviremarked in my discourse this morn-
exsingvea individuals were too prone to indulge in an
excssie idulenc creature comforts on thanks.
giving occasions. .In view of the lamentable fact that
othi of gormandjsmg is carried to a sinful excess
ont ti dy, as a teacher of the Gospel deem it my
neertheles  considering the peculiar circumstance
under objech on am, placed. this day, I think I will
Waure obetin and take another small portion of the
trey."
"Tha rightt elder--..what part will you take ,
breWell, I 'm not Particular; a small quantity of the
brat, with a part of a leg and some of the stuffng,
will  be qute  sufficient."
"Pa ss the cramnberries to Elder Sniffles, Jeff--.elder
turnip sas an potatger teele"sm     more o' the
a"egTable yoirs Mgure.' I am an advocate for
vegtabe det-and have always maintained that it

T~A1~E~5GIVI~G DAT.

165

is more congenial to individuals of sedentary habits
and intellectual pursuits like myself, than animal
food."
" Jeff, my son, pass   rathe bred. Sister Bedott send
your plate for some more o' the turkey.
"No, I 'm obleeged to ye-I 'ye had sufficient."
" Jeff, out the chicken pie."
" Sure enough-I almost forgot that I was to carve
the pie--Aunt Silly you '11 take a piece of it, W~'
yo?
"Well, I don't care if I dew take a leetle mite on 't.
I 'm a great favoryte o' chicken pie-always thought
't was a delightful beverage-donl't you Elder Snif-
"g A very just remark, Mrs; Bedott-very indeed;
chicken pie is truly a very desirable article of food."
" Allow me to help you to some of it, elder."
"Than  you my oungfriend; as I before remark-
ed, I am entirely opposed to an immoderate indulgence
of the appetite at al times, but particularly on thank
abtmious. However, I consider it my duty at the
sent time to depart, to some extent, from the usual
simplicity of my diet. I will, therefore comply~ with
yor request and partake of the chicken pi elder
-  " Take some more o' the cramberry ssedr
cramberries is hulsome."
" A very just remark, Mrs. Magug~e-they are so;

I

D i4

I

Ii

I
I ~
ii
4'
4
k


166

WIDOW ~EDOT~ PAEII~

nevertheless, i maintain that we should not indulge
too freely in even the most wholesome of creature
comforts. however~ Since you desire it, I will take a
s'~aa1l portion more of the cranberrieses"
"ITusband, dew pass that pickled tongue.......j~ hain~
been touched~.take Some on 't Elder Sniffles."
"I 'in obliged to you, Mrs. ~ I confess
I am Somewhat fearful of taking articles of that de-
scription upon IQ~ stomach, as they create a degree of
acidity Which is incompatible with' digestion. Is it
hotso my young friend? You are undoubtewy pre-
pared t~ decide, as you are, I believe, pursuing the
stady of the medical science."
"Ithink you are altogether mistaken, Elder Snif.
fles. We should always take a due proportion of
acid with our food, in order to preserve the equiibri~
of the internal economy, and produce that degree of
ei~ervescence Which is necessary to a healthy secre-
tion."
actly. Your views of the subject is one which
never struck me before; it Seems a very just one. I
will part~e of the pickled tongue in consideration of
'your remarks."
"Take ~a slice on 't, Sister ]3eclott. You Seem to
need some tongue to.day~you 're uncommon still."
"What a musical man you, be, 'brother Magwfre!
but it strikes me when an indiwiddiwal has ~n oppor-
tunity o' hearing' intellectible conversation they 'd bet-

1'
Jjj
I:
2
Ii
II
1;
I

TiIA~{KSGIVING DAY.
187
ter keep still and improve it. Ain't it so, Elder
Sniffles ?"
"A very just remark, Mrs. Bedott; and one which
has often oe~urred to my own mind."
"Take some more .of the chicken pie, Elder Snif~
fles."
".E~cuse me, my young friend ;'I will take nothing
more."
"What! you don't mean to give it up yet, I hope,
"Indeed, Mr. Maguire, I ssure you I would rather
not take any thing more, foT as I before remarked, I
am decidedly opposed to excessive eating upon this
day.
"Well, then, we '11 have the pies and pudding.
Jeff, my son, fly round and help your mar change the
plates. I 'II take the puddin, Melissy-you may tend
to the pies. Jeff set on the cider. So her~e 's a plum-
puddin'-it looks nice-I guess you 'ye had goodluck
to-day wife. Sister Bedott, you '11 have some on
"No; I 'in obleeged to, ye. I 'ye got rather of a
head-ache to-day, and plum puddin's rich. I guess
I 'll take a small piece 6' t~e punkin pie."
"Elder Sniffles, you 'll be helped to some on 't of
course?"
"Indeed, Mr Maguire, the practice of indulging in
articles of this description after eating meat is este~lm
ed highly pernicious, and I inwardly protest against

167


168'

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

it; furtlaermore, as Mrs. Bedott has very justly re~
marked, plum pudding is rich-however, considering
the peculiar circumstances of the occasion, I will for
once overstep the boundaries which I have prescribed
for myself."
*"Am I to understand that you'll have some, or
not?"
"I will partake, in consideration of time and
*   place."
"Jimmeni! wife, this is good' pudding' as I ever
eat."
"Elder Sniffles, will you take some o' the pie-here
is a mince pie 'and punkin pie."~
"III will take a small portion of the pumpkin pie if
you please, Mrs. Maguire, as I consider it highly nu
tritious; but, as regards the mince pie, it is an article
of food which I deem excessively deleterious to the
constitution, inasmuch as it is composed of so great
a variety of ingredients. I esteem it exceedingly
difficult of digestion. Is it not so my young friend?"
"By no means, elder; quite the contrary.-.-and the
reason is obvious. Observe, elder-it is cut into the
* most minute particles; hence it' naturally follows, that
4 "'being, as it were, completely caleined before it enters
the system-it leaves, 'so to speak, no labor to be per-
formed by the digestive organs, and it is disposed of'
* without the slightest difficulty."
"Ah, indeed! your reasoning is quite new' to mew-

4
I      I
II
V
11
II


/

THANE8GIVI2N~G
1~                                                                             yet I confess itto be most satisfaci
consideration of its facili1~y of dige~
also of the mince pie."
"Wife, fill the elder a glass o' ci
"Jill
-      /                     "Desist! Mrs. Maguire, desist, I
J(,~~f~'j~  ~    k,     " -                      variably set my face like a flint ag
/              - -           intoxicating liquors as a beverage."
1yv~  ~
v41-~ v~ i'~ :;r                                                "Jimmeni! youdon't mean to c
~oxicatin' liquor, I hope. Why,
N                                       inade-hain't begun to work."
[
-~      -                                                        "Nevertheless, I believe it to b(
lubrious, and detrimental to the sy
I       I.                .    its nature, my young friend ?"
~1/ ~9ji~,'~'A. .i                                   "Far from, it, elder-.--far from it.
___                                                             and you will readily perceive, th~
-             juice of the apple-wholly free
A-                                                nixture-it. possesses all the nutriti'
~uit, with the advantage of being ii
~ILJI                                                             form, which at once renders it muc
and facilitates assimilation."
"Very reasonable-very reaso~a
Maguire you may fill my glass."
"Take another slice a' the pudcU
~$j ~2i~k~
/1                 -                                          "No mo*'e, I'm  obliged to you, I
"Wefl, won't ~6u be helped to
"No more, I tbank you, Mr. Maj
-8

DAY.          169
4
bory and lucid. In           *1
~tion I will partake
der."
entreat you! I in-
:ainst. the use of all
all new cider an in-
man alive, it 's jest
exceedingly insa-
item. Is not Chat
Reflect a moment
~t being the pure
from all alcoholic
~e properties of the
1 a more condensed
h more agreeable,
.1
~ble, indeed. Mrs.
a, Elder Sniffles."
~fr. Magu.ire."
some more a' the
I
~uire.


170

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPEi~.

"But you '11 take another glass o' cider, won't
y~ou?"
"~ In consideration of the nutritious p~'operties of
new cider~ which your son has abundantly shown to
exist, I will permit you to replenish my giass."
"So you won't~ take nothing' more, elder ?"
I
"Nothing more, my friends~nothing more what.
soever-for as I have several times remarked during
the repast, I am an individual of exceedingly abste-
mious l~abits-.endeavoring to enforce by example
that which I so strenuously enjoin by precept from
the pulpit, to wit-teznperance in all thing."
"Walk into the sitting room, elder. Mother '11
have to excuse us for a while. Aunt, Bedott, you '11
give us your company, won't you?"
"Sartainiy."
"Father, are you not coming?"
"Not; no~w, Jeffi I 'ye got to go out for a spell.
I'Iltiytobeinsoon*"
"Take this arm-cheer by the stove, Elder Sniffles
-the room 's got rather cool; JeffersQn, can't you
accumulate the fire a little ?"
~C It strikes me very forcibly, Mrs. Bedott, that'
* the weather is somewhat cool for the season of the
year."
C'
*   So it strikes me tew; but I think this is quite a
cool climit....-appearently       cooler 'u Wig-
gletown."              considerably

TH~GIvI~~ DAY.

In

"Why no, aunty~theTe can't be any difference in
the climate-the latitude 's jttst the same."
"IgueS5 not, Jeff-What is the latitude o' Scrabble
Hill?"
"Oh, it 's about forty-two."
"~awfgl sakes I our 'n in WiggletoWn 's as muon
as fifty, and sometimes in the summer time it gits up
as high as sixty or seventy."
"Ab.! indeed I you surprise me, Mrs. Bedott.
Speaking of WiggletOWUis that your place of
residence?"
"It is so-the place where the heft o' my ]ife~ has
ben spent."
"In what section of the country is it located ?~'~
"It's sitiwated between Ganderfield andTucke~o~,
Slammerkl3l' crick runs along the south side onAt.~
"Ah, yes, I comprehend; I think I have an indis-
~rimiuate recollection of the place. If I am not miS-
taken I journeyed through it some two years since, in
company with n~y companion (now deceased), Ofl a
visit to her relatives in that section."
"II-o-o-o I how you talk I~ that journey must be a
xnellancolly subjick o' reflection now-how little you
thought then that ~n tew year you 'd be called to
mourn her departer I how onsartin' the fatur isi"
"True-a very just remarkT Mrs. Beclott, very, in-
deed-we are sojourners in a world of figotuatiofl I"
"(0, Elder Snilfles-hoW true th~at is I"

'1

0

ii


172     WIDOW B~DOTT PAP~U~~.

178

"One moment tossed on the billows of prosperity
and joy, and the next plunged into the abysses of
desperation and despair."
"0, Elder Sniffles, what a striking' remark ~' every
word you say goes to the bott6rn o' my heart. I tew
mourn the loss of a pardner, and bein' as we 're 5urn~
larly sittiwated, I feel as if we could sympathize with
one another. You ain't no children~..I 'ye got teiv, but
they 're inarr~ed and seLtlpd, and I 'in as good as alone
in the world. It 's a tryin' sittiwation~very tryin'."
"It is so, Mrs. ]~edott.......yoiir remark is a very just one
-.~very, indeed......your situation is undoubtedly a trying
one-.....but you are in easy circumstances I believe ?"
'Lwhy, yes, generally speaking' I be purty easy,
though sometimes ~I 'm rather oneasy when I thiiik
o the futur.~ was wonderfuny struck with a remark
in your sarinon this mornin'..~...it described my feelings
so egzaekly."
"Allow me to inquire what that remark was, Mrs.
Bedott?"
[The colzver~tion is here interrupted by the en.
france of Mr. and Mrs. Maguirej.
"Well, elde; how do you come OTh-.-time pass
agreeably ?"
"Most agreeably. Mr~ Maguire, most agreeably, in
conversation with Mrs. Bedott."
"Glad on 't.....Jeft; here 's the last £ Lvitiinary,' want
it? I 'ye read it purty much all, exception' the poetry."

THAI~tKSGIVI~G DAY.

"Does it contain a poem. by 'flugelina?' If so, per-
mit me~ to request you to favor us with it, my young
friend. She is indeed a most extraordinary writer."
"She is, that 's a fact-Jeff, less have it."
(Jeff reads)-" Those of our readers 'who are in any
degree imbued with a love of the poetic-With an
appreciation of the sublime and beautiful-Will find a
rich treat in the following exquisite lines from the pen
of our highly gifted correspondent 'flugelina.' Aside
from the high degree of finish which her effasions
always possess, the ensuing lines breathe a spirit of
,world~weariness and. seffabandOI1ine~3~t exceedingly
touching.
$O~TNJ31T.
Oblivion I stretch thine everlasting Wings,
And hide from human gaze my inODXflflll lyre-i
For while my earth-worn, weary spirit singe,
I frequentlY feel desirous to ei~pixe.
It is no vain and vanishing desire,
:Bnt a compt1l5atO~I7'W~sh that seems
To mingle nightly in my visioned dreams-
A wish to leave this uncongenial sphere,
Which souls like mine are apt to ffnd so drear.
o for a residence in yonder orb
Which doth the affectionS of ixiy soul absorb I
Nty spirit seeks in vain for sympathy here;
I feel as I have never felt before-
The one wild, withering wish-to die and be no more!
BUGELmA.
"A. splendid production, tru1y~-but does it not
strike you Mrs. Maguire, that theie is a slight degree
of ob~curit~ in the poem?"

I

b

172


174      WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.-
"0 don't ax me-I can't make head nor tail on
what 's your opinion, Jefferson?"
"Well, I think that the obscurity of which Elder
Sniffles complains constitutes the greatest beauty of
the poem. Don't you know, elder, we are never
deeply interested in any thing that we can corn
hend. at the Ilrst glance. There must be some mystery,
some hidden meaning to excite at once our curiosity
~and admiration-$hakespeare himself often writes,
obscurely, you know.'~
"Shakespeare! that is an author that II am not
conversant with. What does he principally treat
"0, theology, and metaphysics, and so forth."
"Ah, yes, I recollect now-I think I have seen
some of his sermons. On consideration,~ your reason*
ing in relation to the poem strikes me as quite con-
elusive. There should be-as you very justly re-
mark-a hidden meaning to create an interest in any
thing of tb~at description."
"Well, then, that poetry must be awful interestin',
I~or all the meaning' ther is in 't is hid, and no mistake
---don't you say so, husband?"
"0, 1 ain't no judge o' poitry-~--ax 'sister Bedott,
she knows all about poetry, writes bags on
"Ah, indeed! is it true, Mrs. Bedott, that you cul~
lavate the poetic art ?"
"Well, 'tain'~for me to say."

p


x

I
XVII.
~J3
A
~                                        SHE    sits down on a log and sings in         a plaix~tive
voice,
.~0t.
~ Ere love had teached my tears to flow,
~I ~                                   I was onoommon eherful,
2 But now such misery I dew know
-l                                         I 'in always sad and ferful.
II'            ~I:~:!                                But Oniy co~nforts was destroyed,
"b~~ ~                                               What peaceful hours I once enjoyed,
~Q 0                                   When Shadrack crossed my way!
*   I lieerdliimpreach-Ilieerd him pray-
Dear suzl hoW I did feel that day!
It was a dretful thing!
~---~    H
Full forty dollars would I give,
If we-'~d continnerd apart-
~                                                       For though he's made my sperrit live,
[if    ~                                                        He 's surely bust my heart!
(She sighs ~rofoundly-and the~e1der advances un
expectedly.)                 a
"Good gracious! is that you, Elder Sniffle~ [ how
I                                                    I                                        ''I


178 WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

you dkl scare me! Never was so frustrated in all the
days o' my life! hadent. the most remotest idee or'
meeting ~,ou here'~-SWouldent a come for forty dollars if
I 'd a s'po.s~d you ever meandered here. I never was
here afore-but I was a setting' by my winder and I
cast my eyes over here, and as I observed the lofty
trees a wavin' in the gentle blast, and heerd the feath-
ered singsters a wobblin' their mellancolly music, I
f~lt quite a call to come over, it 's so retired and mo-
rantic-.--such an appropriate place to marvel round in,
ye know, when a body feels low sperrited and uncon-
sol~ble, as I dew to-night. 0, d-e-a-r!"
"Most worthy Mrs. Bedott, your evident depression
fills me with unmitigated sympathy. Your feelings,
*    (if I may be permitted to judge from the language of
your song, which I overheard")-~---
"You didn't though, elder! the dretf~il suz! what
shall I dew! I wouldent a had you heerd that song
for no money! I wish I hadent a comet I wish to
gracious I hadent a come !"
"I assure you, Mrs:Bedott, it was unintentional on
my part, entirely unintentional, but my contiguity to
yourself, and your proximity to ~e, were such as ren-
dered it impossible for me to avoid hearing you-"
"Well, it can't be helped now, it 's no use cryin' for
spilt milk, but I wouldn't hey you to think I know'd
you~ ever come here."
"On the contrary, this grove is a favorite resort of

THE WIDOW RETIRES TO A GROVE. 177
mine; it affords a congenial retreat after the extermi-
nating and tremendous mental labors of the day. I
not infrequently spend the declining hours of the
evening here, buried in the niost profound meditation.
On your entrance, I was occupying my customary seat
beneath that umbrageous mounting ~. ash which you
perceive a few feet from you: indeed, had not yo'aix
mind been much pre-occupied, you could scarcely have
avoided discovering me."
"0, granfther grievous! ~wish I 'ci a stayed to hum I
I was borm~i for misfortin' and nothing' else! I wish to
massy I 'd a stayed to hum to-night! but I felt as if
I 'd like to come here once afore I leave the place."
(She weeps.)
"Alit indeed! do you project leaving Scrabble
Hill?"
"Yes, I dew, I calkiate to go next week. I mu&amp;t hear
you preach once more-once more, elder, and then I 'm
agwine-somewher-I don't 'care where, nor I don't
care what becomes o' me when I git there.'~' (She
sobs violently.)
"0, Mrs. Bedott, you distress me beyond limitation
-permit me to inquire~ the cause of this uncontrolla'
tle agony ?"
"0, I~lde~ Sniffles, you're the last indiwiddiwal
that ought to ax such a question. 0, ,I shall die! I
shall give it up!"
"Mad~rn, my interest in your welfare is intense, a1.
8*


178   winow BEDOTT PAPERS.                      THEWIDOW RETIRES TO A GROVE. 179

low me to entreat you still more vehemently to un.
burden your mind, perhaps it is in my power to re-
lieve you.
-, "Relieve me! what an idee! 0, elder, you will be
the death o' meif you make me revulge my feelins so.
An hour ago, T felt as. if I 'd a' died afore I 'd a said
what I hey said now, but you ye draw'd it out o' me."
"Respected madam, you have as yet promulged
nothing satisfactory, permit me-."
"0,, granf'ther grievous! must I come to 't! well
* then, if I must, I. must, so to begin at the beginning .
When I fust heern you preach, your sermons onset-
tied my faith; but after a spell I was convinced by
yer argefyin', and gin up my 'roneus notions, and my
mind got considerable carm. But how could I eet
Sabberday after Sabberday under the dropping's o' yer
~ voice, sand not begin to feel a mor 'n ordinary interest
in the speaker? I indevored not tew, but I couldent
help it; 't was in vain to struggle against the feelings
that prepossest my btizzom. But it 's all over with
me now ! my felicitude is at an eend! my sittiwat~ion
is hopeless! I shall go back to Wiggletown next
Week and never trouble you no more."
"Alt, Mrs. Bedott, you alarm-"
"Yes, you never 'II see no more trouble with. Pris-
silly. I 'm agwine back to Wiggleton. Can't bear to
go back there another, on account o' the indiwidcli-
wals that I come away to git rid of. Tl~ere 's Cappen

I

Cannot, he 's always been after me ever since my hus.
band di~cl, though I hain't never ghi him no incur~
ridgement-but he woti't take no for an answer. I
dread the critter's attentions. And Squire Bailey-.
he 's w~derful rich-but that ain't no recommendation
to me, and I 'ye told him so time and agin, but I s'pose
he thinks 1 '11 come round bumby. And ~Deacon
Crosby, he lost his pardner a spell afore I come away,
he was very much pleased with me, he 's a wo~derfal
fine man-make a fust rate-husband. I kind o' hesi-
tated when he promulgated his sentiments tew me,
told him II 'd think on 't till I come back-s'pose he 'll
be at me as soon as I git there. I hate to disappoint
Deacon Crosby, he 's such a fine n~an, and my deceased
companion sot so much ,by him, but then I don't feel
for him, as I dew for-------. He 's a Presbyterian tew,
and I don't think 't would be right to unite my desti
nation to hisen."
Undoubtedly in your present state of feeling, the
N         uncongeniality would render a union-.-"
"0, dear, dear, dear! I can't bear to go 1~ack there
and endure their attentions, but thank fot~u.ne, they
won't bother me long-IL shall go into a decline, I
know I shall, as well a~s I want to know it My troub-
les 'II soon ~be over-.oudoubtedly they 'll put up a
monnyment to my memory-I 'ye got the diseription
all ready for 't--it says,

)


10   WIDOW BEDOTT lRAPERS* /

He eere sps rissilly P. Be dott,
How mellancolly was her lot !
How soon she did expire !
She did n't commit self-suicide,
'T was tribbilation killed her,
0, what a pity she had n't a' died
Afore she saw the elder!~-

And 0, elder, you '11 visit my grave, Won't ye, and
shed teow or thred tears over it ? 'T would be a con-
solation tew me to think you would."
"In case I should ever have occasion to journey
thro' that section of country, and 'could consistently
with my arrangements make it convenient to tarry for
a short time at Wiggletown, I assure you it would af-
ford me.much pleasure to visit your grave agreeably
to your-request."
"0, elder, how onfeelin' !"
" Unfeeling ! did I not understand you correctly
when. I understood you to request me -to visit your
grave ?"
" Yes, but I don't see how you can be so carm,,
when I 'm a talkin' about dyin'."
"I assure you, Mrs. Bedott, I lyad not the slightest.
intention of manifesting a want of feeling in my re-'
ma'rk.. I should regard your demise as a most deplor-
able event, and it would afford me no small degree of
satisfaction to prevent so melancholy a catastrophe
Were it in my power."

180

LHE WIDOW RETIRES TO A GROYE. 181
" Well, I guess I '11 go hum. If Sally should
know you was here a talkin' with me, she 'd make an
awful fuss."
" Indeed, I see no reason to 'fear that my domestic
should interfere in any of my proceedings."
" O, lawful sakes ! how numb you be, elder I I'
dident illude to Sal Blake-I meant Sal HIugle, she 't
you're igedtew."
"Engaged to Miss Hugle ! you alarm me, Mrs.
Be-"
"Now~ don't undertake to deny it, elder ; every,
body says it 's a fact."
" Well, then, it only remains for me to assert that
every body is laboring, under an entire and unmitigat-
ed mistakee"
"You don't say so, elder! well, I declare I dew feel
relieved. I couldent indure the idee o' stayin' here
to see that match go ofE~ She 's so onworthy-so dif-
ferent from what your companion had ought to be-
and so lazy-and makes such awful poitry; an~d then
Zhe hain't worth a cent in the world. ButI don't
want to say a word aginst her; for lif you ain't in.
gaged now, mabby you will be. 0, elder ! promise
me, dew ,promise me how 't you won't marry: that
critter. "E~would be a consolation tow me when I'm
fur away on my dyin' bed, to know-"Eshe weeps
'w ith renewed energy.] "0O, elder', I 'm afreard I 'm
a gwine to hey the lhighisterics. I 'm subjick to


182

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

spasinatic affections when Ii 'in excited and over-
come."
"You a me, Mrs~ BedottI II will hasten to the
house, and bring the sal volatile, which may restore
you."
"For the land's sake; elder, don't go after Sal; she
can't dew nothing for me. It'll orly make talk, for
she '11 tall it all round the village. Jest take that are
newspaper that sticks out o' yer pocket, and fall, me
with it a leetle. There-I fe'el quite resustic~ted.
I'm obleeged tew ye; guess I can manage to git hum
now." [She rises.]
"Farewell, Elder Sniffles! adoo! we part to meet
no more'!"
"Ah, Mrs. Bedottl do not speak in that mournful
strain; you distress me beyond all mitigation"~[he
takes her hand] "pray reseat yourself; and allow me
to prolong the conversation for a short period. As I
before observed, your language distresses me beyond
all duration."
"Dew you actilly feel distressed at the idee o' part-
in with me ?"
"Most indubitably, Mrs. Bedott."
"Well, then, what 's the useo' martin' at all? 0,
what lwv I said! what key I said!"
"Ahem-ahaw I ~allow me to inquire-are you in
easy circumstances, Mrs. fledott ?"

4

*

I

I

+

THE WIDOW RETIRES TO A GROVE. 188
"Well, not entirely, yet; though I feel considerable
easier 'n what I did an hour ago.'~
"Ahem I I imagine that you do not fully apprehend
my meaning. I am a clergyman-a laborer in the
vineyard of the Lord-as such you will readily un-
derstand I can not be supposed to abound in the frithy
lucre of this world; my remuneration is small-
hence-"
"0, elder, how can you s'pose I 'd hesitate on ac-
count o' your bein' poor? Don't think on 't-it only
increases my opinion of you; money ain't no objick
to me."
"I n~tura11y infer from your indifference respecting
the amoi~int of my worldly possessions, that you your-
self have-"
~~IDont be uneasy, elder, dear--don't allude tew it
again; depend on 't you 're jest as dear to me, every
bit and grain, as you would be if you owned all the
mines of Ingy."
"I will say no moreAI5out it."
"So I ~~pose were engaged."
"Undoubtedly."
"We 're engaged, and my tribbilation is at an end."
[lEer head droops ~n his shoulder.] "6, Shadrack I
what will Hugelina say when she hears ou't ?"


XVIII.

I

DEAlt MELISSY :-
J NOW take my* pen in hand to tell you that I
~ rather guess you 'll be considerably astonished
when you read what I set down to rite. I 'ye got
some news to tell, that you can't guess if you try till
next never, so you may as well give it up fumst as last
afore you begin. And you ain't to let on a word
about it only to Jubiter and Kier and Seliny. Come
to think, I don't care if you tell Sam Pendergrasses
wife, bein' as how she 's a particklem friend o' mine.
But don't you open yer head about it to no other
indiwiddiwa1~..4or I 'want to surprise the Wi~ggletown
folks, and make 'em open ther eyes a leetle. Come
~to considdem, I guess you 'd better not tell Miss Pen-
*    d~mgrass, for I 'm afeard she can't keep it to herself
*    She might let itout to the Kenipes, and they 'd tell
the Orosbys, and the Omos~ys they 'd carry it strait to
Major Coon's wife, and she 'd be sure to tell old, flaw-
son's wife (the wider Jizikin~ 'that was-she 't was

I

2

Poll Bingham), and she 's the verry undentical person
i want(to keep it from till it busts upon her all of' a*
scudding, like a thunder-cbp. I guess I '11 let her
know 't I can hold my head as high as hem in futur,
for who did she git but a decrippid old bung head
that slie wouldent a had if ishe a got any body
else. I guess on the hull you hadent 1~tter say noth.
in' about it to Kier's wife, for fear she 'II tell her folks,
and they '11 sartinly devtdgate it all rounc~ If you
dew tell her, you make' her promise she won't hint a
sillyble about it to her step.mother~-she 't was Kesier
Winkle-nor to nobody else. You must 'all keep it a
profound secret till I come. If nothing' happens to
percent, we shall be in Wiggletown next week, a
Saturday, on our bridal tewer. A Sunday momnin
we caJkilate to go to meeting' along a you 'and Jubiter,
and in the afternoon we shall tend the Baptist meeting .
I tell ye won't them be some stamin' in Wiggletown
that day. I guess they'll find ouV that I'm as good
as enny on 'em if not a leetle better. I shan't' hey on
none o' the things they 'ye- ever seen me wear. My
riggin 's to be iutimel2y new. Yem Uncle Magwime has
made me a present of a handsome green memino dress,
and. yer Aunt Magwire has gi'n me a new brown
velvet bunnitF and yer Cousin Jefferson has presented
me an elegant plaid shawl, and I calkilate to come out
in 'em all in Wiggletown.
Speaking' o~ my new wardrobes, reminds m&amp; to 4e11

WRITES TO HER DAUGHTER.  185

9'

185


186    WIDOW BEDOTT PA]?ERS.                         WRITES TO HER DAUGRTEfl.   187

you that if Jabe Clark comes your way a peddlin',
not to trade a cent's woth with him. You remember
how he come it over me about the shoes, don't ye?
Well it 's amazin" I should. ever be such a fool as to
be took in by him agin---but so 't was. He come
along here a spell ago, and served me the awfuilest
trick that ever you heerd on. I was alone in the house
~yer aunt had went to a sick nabor's, and the way he
cheated n~ was perfectly dretful. My blud biles now
a thinking' on 't. He pretended he 'd experienced re-
ligion, and latijented over the way he used to cheat
and lie; and as true as I live and breathe, actilly got
roun~l me so 't he preswaded me to swop away an ele-
gant stun colored silk, that cost me a dollar a yard,
for a miserable slazy striped consarn, that he said was
all the fashion now-called it "grody flewry"-and
what makes it more aggravating' made me pay tew dol-
lars to boot. . But that wasn't the wost on 't, for come
to enroll it, we found that three or four yards. away
at t' other eend on 't was all dammidged and stained
up-~.'t wasn't fit for nothing. Yer aunt was mad at
me for bein' so toQk in, and yer uncle he laift and
hectored me and went on about it-you know what a
critter he is to bother a boddy. At last I busted out
*   a cryin,' and went off and shot myself up in my room,
and stayed there till tea time-and when I come down,
lo and behold,, yer uncle stept up and handed me a
new green merino dress~~-4ie 'd ben off to the store

4

186

187

and bought it a purpose for me, frii ge, and buttons
and. every thing to trim it with, aiA I've got it made
up, and. it sets like a dandy-and I 'in gwine to be
married in it. J3ut I can't help feeling' awfully gat~led'
about the silk. I took it to Parker ~nd Pettibone's and
swoppt it for some things I wanted. They w6uldent
allow me but eighteen pence a yard, and 't was all
't was woth. Jabe made me take a couple o' hanker-
chers tew, for a dollar a piece-said he 'd stake his
repertation on 't they wasn't half cotton-and no more
they wasn't, for come to dew 'em up, they showed out
plain enuff that they was all cotton-did you. ever?
He got round the 'elder tew-made him pay five dol-
lars for a buzzum pin-said 't was topiz sot in gold;
and it turned out to be yeller glass with a pinchback
rim round it. I was clear out o' pashence with the
elder for bein' so green-but sittiwated as I was
couldn't say nothing' ye know. If ever I come across
Jabe Clark agin, if he don't ketch it, no matter. But
I 'm wonderful bizzy about these days-and so no
more at present from your affectionate mother,
PIUSSILLA P. BEDOTr.
P. S. Give my love to Jubiter. I'm ratifiedd to
hear that the baby is so forward. What do you caiki-
late to call him? .1 hope it won't be Jubiter-for
somehow I don't egzactly like the name, tho' it sounds
well for a man. Bdt don~t in all favor name~him arter


I.
I'
I

WIDOW Bflnor ApaS.

yer par. Hezekier 's an awful name. Hof do y
like Shadrack? That 's the name o' his grandfather
that 's to be. Yer uncle and aunt and Jeff sends
love.                                  P. P.B.
P. S. Yer Cousin Jeff axed permission to read this
letter, and he says I hain't told you who I 'm gwine
to be married tew, nor when the weddin' 's to be
nor nothin'. But 't ain't to be wondered at that I
forgot, for I 'ye got such a numerous number o' things
to think on now. My future companion is the
Baptist minister o' this place-biy the name o' Bider
Sniffles. The way we come acquainted was quite
singular. You see I took to attendin' his meetin'
because the Presbyterian minister here is such small
potaters that 't wa'n't eddifyin' for me to set under his -
preachin', and understandin' that Elder Sniffles was a
very gifted man I thought I 'd, go to hear him.
Well, I liked him wonderful well, ie 's a powerful
speaker and his prayers is highly interestin'. So I
goes to hear him a number o' times. He obsarved
me and was evidently pleased with me-but during
all the time I was creatin' such a sensation in his
feelins I never knowd but what lhe had a wife. How
I did feel when I found out he was a widdiwer. I
was dretfully flustrated, and kep myself as scarce as -
possible. But he follered me up and parsevered, till
at list I consented tb accept o' him.' It 's mellancolly

189

to be alone in the world, and thien ministers don't
grow on every bush. The weddin' is to take place
next week a Wensday evenin' at yer uncle's. Elder
Yawpers, from Slbtown, is to reform the ceremony
and preach in Elder Sniffeses place the next Sabbath
when we 're gone.
The elder lives in a gamble rufft yallar house. I
mean to make him put wings to 't and make it look
ruther- more fashionable. It' stans on a descending'
elevation that slants down to the canawl on the one
side, and not fur behind it is a morantic grove. He
hain't no family but a little highty tighty gal that they
brought up. I tell ye if I don't make her stan' round
when I get there I 'm mistaken. We shall start for
Wiggletown a Thursday, in the stage-and git there,
I s'pose, Saturday evenin'. Now Melissy Smith re-
member you 're to keep it a profound secret. I don't
want nobody in Wiggletown to know a word about
it tili they see us come a walkin' into meetin'. If you
anser this afore we come, direct to the Reverend Mrs.
.Sniffes.

Pf. P-. jEDIYTT
(till next week).

Your affectionate mar,

'P. S. I 've yrit an ~elegy on my marriage that Jeff
thinks is one o' my best poims. He ,'s gwine to send
~it to be printed isi the "Scrabble Hill Luminary,"'right
under the marriage notice. He 's a keep' it from

188

,WgITEs TO sER DAUGHTER-.

I]

U


~ji
ji
ll~
'I
I
I'

~WIDOW B~D0TT PAPERS.

his par and mar, cause they hadn't no sel~se o'~poifry~
yer aunt espeshelly has always disencurridged my
writing' for the papers. But she can't help herself.
P. P. B.
(From the Scrabble HIU Luininary.J
MARRIED.....J~ this village on Wedensday, the 20th
inst., by the Rev. Elder Yawpers, of Slabtown, the
Rev. 0. SHADRACX SNIFPLESOf Scrabble Hill, to Mrs.
PRISCILLA P. BEDOTT, relict of the late Deacon Ifeze.
kiali Bedott, Esq., of Wiggletown.
The fair bride has sent us the following morceau-
which our readers will unite with us in pronouncing
equal to a former effusion from the same gifted pen.
We wish the happy pair all the felicity which their
distingtiished abilities so richly merit.-.-Ens. LuM
TO SHADRAC~.
Prissilla the fair and Shadrack the wise,
Have united tbeir fortunes in the tenderest of ties;
And being mutually joined in the matrimonial connection,
Have bid ado                  tion.
o to their previous aftilc
No more will they mourn their widdered sittiwation,
And continner to sythe without mitigation;
But partners, for life to be parted no more,
Their sorrers is ended, their troubles is o'er.
o Shadrack, my Shadrack! Prissilla did speak,
While the rosy red blushes surmantled he? cheek,
And the tears of affecti~hb~Jo41ed her eye,
o Shadraol, my Shadraok! I'm yourn till I die!
The heart that was scornful and cold as a stun,
Has surrendered at last to the fortinit one;
Farewell to the miseries and grlQfs I have had,
I 'U never desert thee, 0 Shadrack, my Shad!

U                                                                                                Nf

)

XIX.

1

JEFT Scrabble Hill this morning' in the stage for
~'' Libertyville. Felt like death about leaving' my
beloved companion, ~ut he insisted on 't; said 't would
be unpleasant for r~ie to stay to hurr while the par*
sonage was undergwine ~epafrs; and, besides the
journey 'd be for my health; so at last I yielded to
conformity arid went. 'T was determined I should
visit the (Jrippinses, at Libertyville-Mrs. Orippin 1~ein'
my husband's cousin.
The morning was derlicious, and Aurory shone with
undiminished lustu~re~ The feathered s~ngsters wob.
bled in the groves; the breezes was ladened with the
fi~agrance of ten thousand flowers, while natur seemed
to vie with creation to render the scene one of unmit~
gated splendor. But I scercely noticed it a bit; for I
wasn't in a sittiWation to enjoy it a mite. Alas! my
hull soul was with Shadrack.
Ther wasn't but tew individuals besides me in the
stage, and they was men folks. I should a fouud ~he

190

t

ii
ii
11
Ii
II
Ii
U
U
F;

p


WIflOW ~EDOTT PAP~1~5.

journey awful tejus if I hadent amused myself by
courting' the, muses, as Shadrack calls it. I had a pen.
cii and a piece o' paper in my ridicule, and I axed one
o' the gentlemen to lend me his hat to write on. He
handed it out very perlitely, and I composed the fob
lerin' stanzys:
TO MY OWN ONE.
Farewell to Scrabble Hill I
Farewell tomy dear Shad!
I leave you much against my WU1~
And so I feel quite bad.
o Shadrack think o' me
When lam far awtiy;
I sartingly shall think a' thee
Wherever I do stray.
Adootafondadool
Dear pardner a' my heart.
The idee a' comm' back to you
Sustains me while we part.
01! n3yShadshouldbe
Onwell while ~'m from home,
I shall feel most4mpleasautlee,
Andwishlhadn'tacome.
Butlwilihope and pray
That we m~y both be abie
To meet agin some futur day,
Alive and comforta~1e.
~~very thing conspired to remind me of my absent
one. 'The men that was my. feller passengers smoked
the heft o' the time. My Shadrack loves his pipe, and
it does me so much good to see him enjoy it. The tn.

*     192

A

"V

THE REV. MRS. SNIFI'LES ADRc'AD. 1~S
diwiddiwal that lent me his hat brought him very for~.
cibly to my mind. He was drest in black, and had &amp;
wonderful dignified and thoughtful cast of expression.
I made up my mind he was a clergyman as soon as I
sot eyed Qn him; so when I handed back 'his hat I
ventured to inquire where his field o' labor was. He
hem'd' and haw'd, and seemed rather i~nbarrised. So I
says, says I, "I s'pose I ain't mistaken in takin' you
for a clergyman ?"
But afore he had time to answer, t' other on&amp;-he
was quite a young man-spoke up; and~ says he,
"You 're iight, marm-it 's the Reverend Mr. Beadle,
of Funkin Hook."
"And this is my principal deacon, Mr. Snobs,"
says Mr. Beadle.
So I told. 'em who I was; and after the ice was
broke, we had considerabk interesting' conversation on
a number o' tropics, espesiiealy on the state o' religion
in this section, particularly in our respectable places
of abode. They seemed wonderful grieved at ihe in.
ikity that prevails in our midst. Infbrmed me tha1~
they 'd jest ben attending' a convention to 8uppreSS th8
railroads rnnnin' a Sabberdays. They never fravePd
on 't, cause it didn't lay by a Sabberdays.
They seemed. to be very much interested in ~e. I
showed 'eni the poetry I 'd ben writing' which they w~
wonderfully struck with. Brother Beadle proposed
settin' on 't to music, and all on us singing' it together.
9

I

I
'I

I
(
[


iI~
ill
'1$
[I
[
4 h~

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS4

The deacon thought 't would go in "Away with mel.
lancolly :" but not bein' conversant with that tune, I
proposed "Haddam "-a great Th~vorite 0' mine. They
said they 'd amost forgot Haddam; so I sung one stan~
zy to show 'em how it went, and then we all put to
and sung it together. They didn't make out very
well I didn't think; didn't keep no time; seemed to
be what Jeff Magwire calls indepeide~zt srnger8, that is,
each one went entirely on his own hook, without pay-
in' no attention to the rest. But no doubt they done
the best they could, and I hadent ought to find fault.
The deacon requested me to give him the poim, in
order to have it printed in the " Punkin Hook Patriot
and Journal." After some hesitation I consented.
At Pukin Hook my interesting' feller travelers got
out. I regretted martin', and so did they. I invited
Brother Beadle to come to Scrable Hill and preach
for us sometime. He squeezed my hand, and said he
was delighted to have met with such a sister in Israel
'-he never should forget the refreshing' season he 'd
er~joyed inmy society.
The rest o' the way to Iiibertyville I was the only
passenger; but 't wa'n't no great distance. Jest as the
horizon was srnkin' behind the western skies, I arniv
at Cousin Cnippinses. When I told 'em who I was
they received me with open arms, for they set a great
de~I by the elder. They 're elderly people, very well
o~; haln't no famii~y but a son. and daughter, both

194

TflE RI!IV. 11R8. 8!~I1'FL~S KBROAD. 195
married and settled. The daughter lives in the same
place, is married to a risin'. doctor by the name
Briggs. In short, I think I should be quite contented
here if my beloved, companion was only with me.
But the accumulation' shadders o' night, aggravated, by
the descending' of my candle into the socket, warns me
that it is time to seek my miller, and resusticate ex-
austed nater by repose.
0 for a Bight o' Shadrack's face,
To shine amid the gloom!
To mitigate this lonesome place,
And shed a sweet perfume.
WED.NIGHT.-Agin I take my p'en in hand to re*
cord the occurrences that have occurred dunn' the day.
I niz at an arly hour, and sallied forth into Cousin
Orippinses guarding to view the works of natur. 0
how it expends and illuminates t~e religious affections
to contemplate the wonders of creation. The pines
was all in full blow, and the yallar lilies riz up strait
and stiff to court the revigoratin' atmosphere. Also
the cabbidge leaves was a glittering' with dew drops,
and looked like ever so many fans kivered with span*
gles. My hull soul was evaporation' with delightful:
meditation, when cousin Orippin blowd the horn for
breakfast, and I was obleeged to go in, though I 'd ten
times rather a stayed there ~than to eat. Cousin Onip
pin sets a tolerable good table-makes fu.s~ rate
though I must say I can beat her on griddle cakes:

Ii


196

WIDOW flEDOTT PAPERS.

wonder whether she sponges 'em over night: don't be.
lieve she does; can't have good griddle cakes without
spungin' 'em, according' to my way o' thinking .
This afternoon Cousin Crippinses daughter, Mrs.
Briggs, she 't was Susan Ann Crippin,~ called on me;
rather an ornery looking woman, but quite genteel
and intellectible. The ~Crippinses had told me so
much about her that I was prepared to be wonder-
fully struck up with her. She writes poetry for the
"Liber~yville Reflector." She invited me to attend a'
literary swearee at her sittiwation to-morrer evening .
She says they hold their sw~arees once a fortnight, and
she thinks they have a great attendance to elevate the
tone o' society, and axed if we had anysuc~ thing at
Scrabble Hill. I told her no, that they was pretty
high strung ther already, and didn't need nothing' to
elevate their tone. She smiled at this observation,
and remarked that I was rather sarcastical.
She said they didn't admit none to membership
without they 'd had something printed; but others
was sometimes invited to attend and enjoy the benefit
of the intellectible feast. And they 'd be happy to
see me. I 'd have the pleaser~ o' meeting' a number of
literary characters; among 'em "Nell Nox," the cele-
'brated critic, and "Kate Kenype," the well..known
and greatly admired advocate of women. She pre-
sumed I'd heerd of 'em both. "Nell Nox" was very
severe, very sarcastical, very, indeed. I told her I 'd

THR REV. MRS. S~TI~FLES ABROAD. 197
a number o' poims printed myself. She lookt quite
surprised, and I confess I was surprisder yet that she
hadent seen or heerd. o' my pieces in the "Scrabble
Hill Luminary." On the hull, I was rather disap-
pointed in Cousin Briggs. But I mean to go to that
swearee any how, if nothing' happens.' But we 're
poor short-sighted mortals.
Poor ignorant critters we!
To our short-sighted race
Things ftitiir in life's mystery
And like enough never 'II take place.
FRIDAY.-Last night attended the literary swearee
at Cousin Briggses, and was highly entertained. Ther
was ten or a dozen present, and four on 'em had. crig-
inal productions. The most extinguished article was
the Widder Reade's. She signs her productions
"Nell Nox5." She 's a very fleshy woman, with a
wonderful small head. I took particular notice of
~her 'cause she 's so notorious in a literary point o'
view. She had, a singular looking' head-dress stuck~atop
of her head. Her nose is awful long, and turns up
at the ~eend; very handy, - saves her the trouble o'
turning' on 't it up every time she reads a poor piece o'
* poetry, and she don't seem to read no other exception'
Cousin Briggses. She was drest in a sky blue muslin
dress with flounces almost up to her waist, that made
her look shorter and fleshyer than she actilly was.
She had a dretful severe critisisni on the American

I


198

.WIt~OW BEDOTT PAPERS.

poits, espeshially a certain long-feller, as she called him,
some tall ifrdiwidiwal I s'pose. She cut him all to
pieces, declaring that he had never writ a line that
could be call poetry in all his born days She said
that his Eve Angeline was a perfectly nonsensical
humbug, I presume that 's some young woman he 's
engaged to. I thought if she was a mind to whale
away against the long-feller she might, but she might a let
his intended alQne. Cousin Susan Ann axed me after-
wards if I dident think Nell Nox was awful cutting .
She said 6he shouldent like to come under her lash.
She wondered what long-feller 'd say ~J~en he come to
see that criticism, as he undoubtedly would, for
't would come out in "The Reflector" afore long; Nell
contribbits t6 that paper. Thinkeme I ain't feared of
her; I guess she 'II change her sentiments when she
hears my piece. She '11 think ther is such a thing as
poetry in Ameriky then. For I had in my pocket the
stanzys I writ in the stage-I 'd brought 'em along,
- thinking' like enough I should be called on to read
somdhing.
The editor of "The Reflector" was there; he 's presi-
dent of the swearees. A wonderful small, jandery-
lookin' young man, with blazinV red hair, and exceed-
inly pompous, but uncommon talented. He had an
article on the prospects of the literary horizon through-
out the world. His sentiments differed from Nell
Noxes inasmuch as he held that Ameriky was the
'I

THE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES ABROAD. 199
only country where poetry had reached the hight of
its zenith. To prove it, he brought forward Cousin
Briggses writing, said that even Nell Nox, the severest
critic of the age, spared her; ther wasn't nothing in
her poetry that no critic could git hold of. He-wound
up, at last, by glorifyin', in a most eloquent manner,
that both o' these remarkable writers were contribbit-
ors to his paper.
Next come Cousin Su~an Ann Briggs with her article.
'T was a very affection' poim on, the death o' Deacon
Paine's daughter. I don't remember but one stanzy,
and that come' in at the eend of every alternative
verse. It runs thus:
Fond parents weep for me no more,
That I no more am given;
we'll surely ~h~ll meet when life is ore,
High up above in heaven.
I must ax Cousin Briggs for a coppy on 't, it 's very
good, though I actily think I can beat it; 't ain't for
me to say so, -however. Her newspaper name is
"Fenella Fitzallen."
The last indiwidiwal that~read was an elderly young
woman, named Samanthy Hocum, a wonderful tall,
slab-sided, coarse looking' critter. Her hair looked
singular, 't was all raked back off her forward, and
made her ~phizrnahogany look amazing' broad and
brazen. She certainly wasioncommon odd. and ornary
looking . Had on a red calico dress, and a queer kind

I


200   WIDOW'BEDOTT PAPERS.

of a bobtailed little thing, made o' gr~en silk, with
brass buttons down it. Take her altogether, she was
about as singular a critter in her appearance as I've
seen in some time. But she 's uncommon smart. She
had an article on the subject o' "WoA~a~'s Rights."
'T was a powerful production. She h~at the men
hadent no bizuess to monopolize every thing, and
tramxnil the female sect. I thought to myself they
hadent showed no great disposition to trammil her so
far. She writes for the "Pidgin Pint Record of
Genius," and signs Kate Kenype.
Them was all the articles that was read last night,
though ther was several more literary indiwidiwals
ther. A fat, pudden-faced young man that writes
poetry for the "Newville 'Star and Trumpet," and
signs "Phil Philpotts." And then ther was a rather
good looking' young woman that writes the amusing'
articles for i~he same paper, and signs 'em "Betsy But.
tertub," and some more,' but I disremember their news~
paper names.
After the reading' was over, the company diverted
the time till the refreshments come in to walking' round
and round through the folding' doors to the hail, and
then from the hall, through the folding' doors agin, as
if ther lives depended on 'to The editor,'~ he Walked
with Nell Nox, and hil Philpotts with Betsy But.
tertub, and Kate Kenyp , she stramanaded round alone,
wonderful independent. I sot on the sofy and talked

TUE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES ABROAD. 201
to the Briggses till I got as dizzy as a fool, em
go round and round. IL wanted to read my poim, and
I seed plainly that Cousin Susan Ann didn't mean to
ax me to (shouldent wonder if she was a little jealous).
So I determined I would read it wheflaer or no; so
when the company sot down to take refreshment, I
speaks up and says, that seem' I 'd ben so eddifie4
myself; I thought I 'd ought to contribute my share to
the evening's entertainment; and then without furder
ado, I takes out my piece and reads it. 'T was very
much admired. Nell Nox declared 't was what size
called poetry, and the editor requested a coppy on 't to
put in "The Reflector." I gi'n it tew him. It didn't
strike me till after IL got hum thai I 'd gi'n it the
Reverend Mr. Beadle, to be printed in the "Punkin
Hook Patriot and Journal." So I s'pose the tew
paPers 'II be accusing' one another o' stealing' on 't, and
there 'II be a regular newspaper quarrel abo~tt it ~ and
I shall be drawn into public notice in a manner very
imbarrassin' to my retirin' disposition. But I can't
help it. We literary characters must expect to be
subjected to a great many more unpleasant things than
falls to the lot o~ privit indiwidiwals-it 's the fate o'
genius.
Don't know but what I 'd try git up a Literary
Swearee Society in Scrabble Hill, if I clident s'pose
Sally Hugle 'd make herseII~f so conspickiwous in it.
But I 1~no~v sIi~ would. ~lae '~ so awful vein, and
9*

0~


-202  WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

thinks herself such an amazing' poitess, though as to
that, every body knows she can't write. I feel kinder
sorry for her, she mistakes her calling so. I should
lan~ent to have her make such a laffin' stock of herself;
as she would if titer was any literary dewins there.
SATURDAY EvB~I~-Larnt to-day, through Dr.
Brig~ and by a long chain o' circtLmstances tew nu-
merous to be detailed here, that the indiwidiwals that
past themselves ~ for a clergyman and deacon in the
stage, was notbin~g lint a couple of hoss dealers from
Varmount, with no more sense o' religion than the
animals they trade in. 0, 't is melancholy! I feel to
lament that humati natur should be sunk to such a
tunible a pitch as to deceive a reverend lady so aw-
fully. I pitty the poor, degraded, deluded critters
from the bottom o' my heart. I hope they may
have grace and space to repent. To think o' my bein'
*    so took in! Well, they 'II have it to answer for
that's a comfort. But I hope they 'II be led to see
ther sinfulness afore it'~ tew late. To think o' my
letting' 'em have my poetry tew, that galls me. I wish
*    they 'd steal some houses and be took up and sent to
the states prison, the miserable wretches-but I for.
give 'em~-.-I always forgivQ-4 never lay, up nothing.
against nobody-.the consarnid critters I
To*niorrer '11 be Sunday-4ntend to go to meeting'
~f I c~n eommai~d ~y feeling~ sirffloient. But oudoubte

I:
4
I

-202

*

4

THE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES ABROAD. 208
edly I shall be all day a countex~astin' the preacher
with my companion, and so sha'n't enjoy my mind,
axLcl have as refreslain' a season as I otherways should.
Agin the sacred di~y
Of sacred rest has come,
And to~y inmost feelings brings
My Shadrack's image hum.
I'd rather spend the day
With him than where I am,
A hearing' of him preach and pray,
And giviri' out the psiam.


xx.
"J MUST show ye my daggertype, sister Magwire,-
L that I had took while IL was gone."
"-I want to know if you 'ye got one o' them things!
- I 'ye heerd about 'em, and had a great curiosity to see
'em. Pray how do they take 'em?"
"Wdl, I '11 tell ye. Sal! Sal Blake, come in here!
- Why don't ye never start some time or other when I
call ye? You go up stairs to -my chamber, and fetch
here that thing kivered with morocker, that lies on
the stand. Step quick, you-and don't ye be gone
longer 'n till next day after to morrer, if ye can help
it. And here! don't you open it-you fetch it right
straight along down-d' ye hear. That young one
does try my patience the worst way-~she's the slowest
o all created critters. I don't b' leve it done her any
- good staying' with you while we was gone. I wish
the elder 'd a sent her to the Widder Grimeses-li
guess she 'd a mad~ her fly round. I don't s'pose you
trained her a mite." -
"Well, I did n't see no occasion Co~ it. She see~ned

THZ REV. ~R$. SNIFFLES AT HOME. .205
willin' enough to dew without driving . And besides,
I don't approve o' working' half-grown gals so hard. as
some folks dew. lit stunts 'em, and injures their con-
StitutiQn5."
"I declare, if that ain't a bright idee! jist as if--
A~s true as natur, there she comes! What 's got into
ye, Sal, to make ye so spry all of a sudding? I guess
ye seen a ghost, on the st~1rway, did n't ye? There
Sister Magwire, isn't that striking ? Sal, you huzzy I
where 's yer manners? don't ye know no better 'n to
be a gawpin' over Miss Magwire's shoulders? go into
the kitchin-budge 1"
"Why Sister Sniffles, dew let the poor child look
at it.-what harmTh it dew ?"
"Sister Magwire, I wish you would n't interfere in
my domestic arrangements-Sal, you put for the
kitchen, -and finish pearin' them apples and when
ye 'ye got 'em done, take hold and scour them pans.-.
and don't ye stop to look out o' the winder-and as
soon as ye git done scouring' the pans, come here, and
I'll tell ye what to do next. I rather guess II 'II la-rn
that critter to know her place, afore I 'ye ben here
much longer. She hadn't never had no instruction
about what belongs to her sittiwation, at all."
"Poor thing I don't blame her, I 'ni sure. You.
know, Mis~s Sniffles, the elder's first wife, brought her
up as if she washer own daughter."
"Well, I me~u to show heir the- ~ifferezioe betwixt

1


208 WIDOW BEDOTT PAERS.

genteel folks and them that ~s born to be underlin's.
But ain't that a wonderful striking' picter?"
"It is, actilly; looks as natural as life-especially
the elder's specs and your cap.~~
"I had a couple more just like it took at the same
time: one for Melissy, and t' other for Sam ~en&amp;er-
grasses wife. I think the position 's very int4estin'
-me a leanin' on the elder's shoulder,' and ho din'
holdo'hishand." K
"The must cost a good deal-don't see how you
could afford it."
"Well, 1 '11 tell ye how 't was~-~'t was a curus cir-
cumstance. At Miss Fendergrasses party-.see, I
hadn't told ye about her makin' a party for us, I guess;
well, she did, and it was a regular kind o' a woiild.if
ye-could consarn, jist such as she always makes out
when she tries to cut a sludge. ]3tit Sam's wif~
meant well enough. And on the hull 't was quite
pleasant. Most o' my old acquaintances was there ~
Major qoon and his wife, pompious as ever; Mr.
Crane and his wife--she 't was Kesier Winkle. She
0
don't paint her face no more Ziow her market 's made
-looks wonderful humbly. And there was old flaw-
son and his wife-.~-.Widder Jinkius, ye know-she
was Poll Bingham. She and Miss Coon had their
/
heads together half the ev-enin', a whisperin' about
me and the elder. Th~t I didn't eare-.I tell ye, I liild
~iy head as hi&amp;h as ~any~on 'en, if ~ot a ~et1egr4u

THE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES AT HOME. 207
higher. Ther wa~ a great deal o' notice took o' me
and the elder. lie talked up anci made considerable
a sensation. It told him forehand to do his pur-
tiest, for I wanted old Dawson's wife to ~ee 't I 'd got
a pardner rather above a common plow-jogger, such
as hem is. And I guess she felt it some, for she
looked mighty spiteful. While the elder was a taJkin',
she kept a hunchin Miss Coon, -and grinning . Sam
Pendergrasses wife said she observed to her that she
should think I 'ci be in a constant state o' consarn
about the elder, for fear he'd git choked with a big
word sticking' in his throat. Miss Pendergrass said
"she wouldn't care a cent about it, if she was me; for
't was plain enough 't wasn't nothing' but envy because
her husband could n't talk so."
"But you was gwine to tell about them dagger-
types."
"0 yes. Well, Sam ?endergrasses wife axed Miss
Coon to play on the planner. They 'ye got a planner
for Ann Elizy-piece o' extravagance in my opinion
.-don't see how~ Sam Pendergrass can afford such
things-besides, I don't h'leve Ann Elizy 'II ever
make much of a musicianer, for she can't play but a
few tunes yit,, and she 's ben a. takin' lessons amost
three nwnths. I spent the day there one day, and
she thumpt away on the consanaid thing half the time.
'T was enough to split a body's~ skull open. Well,
Miss Coon she sot dewn to the pianuer-and o'~ll


208   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

things! IL wish you could a ben there! If 't wasn't
Idiin', then no matter. She throw 'd back her head,
and she rolled up her eyes, and she thrum 'd it off
with the tips o' her lingers. But good gracious! her
singing ! you 'd a gin up, IL know, if you 'd a heerd it!
The way she squawked it out was a caution to old
gates on a windy day! See, what was it she sung?
0,1 remember-a dretftil nonsensical tlaing, that kept
a sayin' every little while 'J&amp;nmeni fondly thine
own.' IL was perfectly disgusted."
"But what Lias all that to dew with the dagger-
types ?"
"WeU, IL was a gwine to tell-why can't ye have
patience? IL was setting' right by the planner when
she sung, and IL observed that she had on a wonderful
curus buzzom-pin. So, after she 'd got done her
music, and gone back t' other side o' the room, IL says
to Melissy, says IL, what a sing'lar looking' buzzum-pin
Miss Coon 's got on-wonder what it 's made of!
'Why, mar,'~ says she, 'it 's a daggertype o' the Major
-didn't you never see a daggertype?" 'No,' says IL,
'but IL' 'ye heerd o' 'em.' So Melissy she got right up,
and went and axed Miss Coon if she would n't be
kind enough to let mar see her pin. IL was awful mad
at Melissy-~did n't want that stuck up, critter to know 't
I noticed I~er pin-so I speaks up, and IL says, 'IL want
ye to under~tap4, Miss Coon, that I didn't request

208

THE REV. MRS. S!~IFFLES AT HOME. 209
say~ 8he, 'you 're perfectly welcome to see it.' So she
onfastened it, and handed it to Melissy, mighty graci-
ous. She 's always wonderful polite to Melissy-don't
know, IL 'm sure, wh~t 's the reason she treats her so
much better 'n ever she did me; but IL s'pose ther
ain't nothing' about her t~ be jealous of. Well, Melissy
she fetched it over, an~ IL could n't help looking' at it;
and sure enough, there was the major, natural as life,
with all his train' regimentals on-'t was complete.
Miss Coon axed me how IL liked, it. 'T ain't wonderful
handsome ' says IL, 'but it'~ looks fQll as well as the
major.' Miss Coon turned rather red, and 't was plain
to be seen she felt cut up. Melissy-silly thing-she
kind o' wanted to plaster over what IL 'd said, so she
praised it up to the skies-said she never see any
thing so peffect-~-and axed Miss Coon where 't was
took. Miss Coon said the major had it took in
Gambletown a few days afore. Ther was a gentleman
stayin' there a few weeks, that done 'em uncommon
correct. '0, mar,' says Melissy, 'IL heerd the elder
say he meant to go home by the way o' Gambletown
.-why can't you stop and have yourn and the elder's
took for me? Jubiter 's got a cousin livin' there-a
young man named Jo Baker, and he 's a comm' out
here in a fqw weeks. You can leave 'em with him to
fetch.' 'Well,' says IL, 'IL '11 see about it.' After that,
Melissy she teamed us till we promise to git 'em for
her. She concluded she 'd like to have us represented


210   WIDOW DEDOTT PAPERS.

together in one picter. We 'd made our calculations
to stop in Ganabletown a day or tew on our way hum.
The elder was some acquainted with Elder Gunastork,
the minister there-had met him at the meeting' o'the
Baptist Presbytery. We left Wiggletown a Monday,
went round by Pidgin Pint, and stopped there to~
ward night. The elder inquired where the Baptist
mitaister lived, and we went there. We had n't never
heerd o' him afore~-but 't was better to go there than
to have a tavern bill to pay. His name was Elder
Hawley. The' elder he introduced himself as the
Rev. Elder Sniffles, from Scrabble Hill, and his con-
sort. Well, brother hawley invited us in and intro-
duced us to his wife. She was a sick looking' woman,
with a hull raft o' young ones squallin' round her.
'T wasn't very pleasant there, they did n't seem to be in
Wonderful good circumstances. But they treated us
very polite, and we staid till Thursday, for Brother
Hawley was a holding' a protracted meeting , and invited
the elder to stay awhile and assist. A Thursday we
come on to Gambletown, got there in theafternoon.
Elder Oumstork as very glad to see us, and so was
his wife. I was q4ite surprised when I seen her, for
I used to know 4aer some. Her name was Mary
f          Cushman. She used to keep school in Wiggletown
when Melissy was a little- gal. I sent her to Miss
(Jushnaan's school. Melissy liked her very well, but
I never thought much o' her. She was kind o' proud

THE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES AT HOME. 211
.-could n't git acquainted with her. ~he would n't
talk about nobody. She had quite a quarrel with
the Widder Jinikins about Alviry. Miss Jinkins took
Alviry out o' school. There was a great deal said
about it. Every body was a takin' sues. Miss Jinkius
went all around blazin' away against Miss Gushman.
But I could n't hear o' Miss Cushman's saying any
thing, though I s'pose Miss Jinkins did abuse her
shamefully. Well, I invited her to drink tea at our
house a purpose to see if she wouldn't have some~
thing to say about it, but she never opened her head.
I tried my best to draw her out-expressed my opin-
ion o' the Widder Jinkins without reserve. But still
the provoking' critter never said a syllable about the
matter. I tell you 't was the last time I axed her there
'to tea. I was disgusted with her. I took cp4te a dis-
like tew her, and when she went away I did n't care
whether I ever heerd from her agin or not. And I
had n't heerd since-did n't know what had become o'
her. But I know'd her the minute I clapped my
eyes on her in Gambletown, for she 's rather a singu-
lar looking' woman. 'Law me,' says I, 'Mary Gush.
man, I want to know if that 's you?' 'Jest so,' says
she, but I can't for the life o' me tell who you are.'
'The dear me,' say I,' why I ~m the Reverend Miss
Sniffles, she 't was Widder Bedott, o' Wiggletown.'
'Sure enough,' says she, I wonder I did n't know you,
but I 'ye seen so many folks since I was there, it


x

212

WIDOW 8EDOTT PAE)RS.

rather confuses me sometimes.' I thought 't was a
pretty poor excuse for fogettin' me, but I passed it off.
She was wonderful polite to us. They 'd ben to
dinner, but she went and got dinner for us right off.
She don't keep no help, does all her own work, and I
must say she keeps the house in very nice order, and
cooks pretty well considering' she used to be a school-
marm; school teachers dun't generally make no great
o' housekeeper's. Her husband seemed to be Wonder-
Liii proud o' her; told how well she got along, and
what a good manager she was, and all that. But I;
thought I 'd let 'em know 't I had n't no great opinion
o' her housekeeping . She sot on a leg o' biled mutton
for us, and some vegetables and bread and butter.
So when we sot down to the table I declined takin'
any o' the meat. Miss Oumstork axed me if I wasn't
hungry. 'Yes,' says I,' but I don't like biled vitals,
ain't used to 'em.' ,S~~t~elt awful bad, and went and
fetcht on some cokV roast beef But Ii told her she
need n't a troubled herself; for I could n't eat cold
meat. So she said she 'd cut off some slices and heat
1
em in a stew-pan. I begged 0' her not to dew it, for in
my opinion warmed up vittals wasn't fit to eat. 'I 'II
make out with a potater,'~says I, 'and a piece o' bread.'
At last she gin up tryin' to make me take any thin'
else. But the elder he eat wonderful hearty. I kept
a winkin' at him to hold up, but he would n't take
the hint. Afterward she brought on a rice pudding ,

THE REV. MRS. Si~IWFLE5 AT HOME. 218
and the elder let into 't in earnest. I eat some tew, for,
to tell the truth, I was awful hungry, but did n't
want 'em to think I eat it because 't was good, so, I
says, says I,' rice pudding' 's terrible plain; but it 's
better 'n nothing , and Ii s'pose Ii shall be sick if I don't
eat something. ' When we was alone the elder un.
dertook to take me to do about findin' fault with the
vittals, but I told him he need n't be consarned, for I
meant to let the Oumstorks see 't I know'd what was
what, though I had n't been a schooV~marm. And I
made it a pint to turn up my nose at every thing in
the house all the time I was there; and I tell ye, I
could n't help laughing' in my sleeve to see how
comfortable it made 'em feel. Well, we stayed till
the next Monday, and the elder he preached for*
brother Oumstork. The Gambletown folks was very
much taken with him, and with me tew, all the most
extinguished indiwiddiwals in the place called on me.
I see that they seemed to think Miss Cumstork was an
amazing' smart, intellectible woman, but whenever I got
a chance I let 'em~now 't Idid n't think so, nor the Wig.
gletown folks did n't think so another. I rather guess the
Oumstorks 'II have to draw in their horns after this-"
"Well, now, Sister Bedott-"..-Sister Sni~es I mean---
I want to ]~ow if you think 't was Ohristianlike to
go there and abuse that poor woman in her own
house, and talk against her to her own congregation
into the bargain, when, aecordin' to yer own story,


214

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

she done all she could to make yer visit pleasant?
I 'd be ashamed to tell on 't if I 'd acted so rididious.
I don't see what yer object was cutting' up so."
"IL tell ye IL wanted to show 'em 't ]I know'd what
was what."
"Well, I guess ye show'd 'em one thing pretty plain
-that ye didn't know what politeness was."
"I guess, Sister Magwire, 't IL know what politeness
is as well as you dew. It looks well for you to be a'
tellin~ me what 's right and what 's wrong, when my
first pardner was a deacon and my present one 's a
minister-.-when IL want your advice I 'll ax for it."
"Well, well, I want to hear about them daggertypes
--how they make 'em, and all in relation tew it. It 's
a wonderful art'.-beats all IL ever heerd of; How is it
they take 'em in so little while ?"
"Well, I '11 tell ye. TAer 's a pole stuck up in the
middle o'the floor, with a machine atop on 't-kind of
an uplong shaped consarn.-4ooks for all the world
like the old cannon they haul out on ILndependence
and training days, about so wide and so long. In the
little eend on 't ther 's a hole, and into that hole the
daggerotyper slips~the steel plate that the picter 's to
be made on, and kivers it up. Then ye have to ~et
down in a cheer about as fur from the machine as
from here to that stove, on 'an average. Then he fast.
ens yer head in an iron consarn to keep it still-.4or
ye 'ye got to set as onmovable as a wax-work, and ~

THE REV. NERS. SNIFFLES AT HOME. 215
stiff as stiliyards, or the picter 'II be spiedd, Then y6
must look strait at the machine that stans there a pint.
in' right at yer face-"
"Grammanyl I should think 't would be an awful
sittiwation. I should be frightened. out o' my wits."
"Lawful sakes! I wasn't a hit skairt. Well, ther 's
a winder right aside 0' ye, and a white sheet fastened up
all round ye, and when ye 'ye got flxt, he takes the kiv-
er off 0' the machine, and the light reflects into the win-
der and onto yer face, and from yer face it refragerates
onto the steel plate, and executes the picter in a minit."
"Well, I don't understand now a bit better 'n I did
afore."
"I never! how dumb you be? it 's'~s clear as day-
light to me. I seen right through it at fist."
"Well, what do they call them daggertypes for ?"
"0, I s'pose that 's. on account o' the dagger they
use to polish off the plates forehand. Seems to me
that was what Jabe said."
"Jabe who ?"
"Why Jabe Clark-he took that picter."
"You don't 1"
"It 's a curus circumstance. I '11 tell ye how it
happened. I 'd no more idee o' the daggertyper hem'
Jabe Clark tban nothing in the world. Nobody did'.
ent know it. He was there in Gambletown cutting' a
mighty swell with his dagg~rtypes-makin' money
like dir&amp; Had his gallery over Smith's store-altered

2

*1


216    winow BEDOTT PAPEflS.

* his name-had a great flarin' sign stuck up over his
door that had on 't, 'Mr. Augustus Montgomery,
Daggertyper.' Well, we went in there a Friday to
look at his pictures, and see what he taxed for takin'
'em---thought mabby he 'd strike off some on account
of our belonging' to the clergy. Brother Oumstork
,went with us and introduced us; and Mr. Montgom-
ery was wonderful polite-showed all his picters; told
us all about 'em tew.-.the way he took'em and so on;
though most on 'em was his own likenesses. There
was Mr. Montgomery a readin'-Mr. Montgomery a
smokin'-~-.Mr. Montgomery a shavin'-and ever so
many more. I forgit what they was all a dewin'.
All the time I kept a thinking' I 'd seen the man afore;
but to save my life I couldn't remember when nor
where. He looked kind o' natural some how, and his
voice sounded jest as if I 'd heerd it afore. But then
he lookt so different, no wonder I dilent know him at
first. He 'd cut off his whiskers all, only a bunch on
the tip of his chin; and he 'd got on spectacles
I noticed he looked over the tops of 'em. He had a
wig, tew, considerable blacker 'n his own hair. The
~lder and me we stood up together and ~axed him if
he thought we 'd take well. He looked at us a nun'
ute, and then says he, 'Jingo! you 'd make an admy-
rable picter.' Then it popped right into my head
who 't was. I was on the pint o' screamin' right out
-but I happened to think and hild my tongue, for

THE REV. MRS. S2~IFFL~ES AT HOME. ~17
thinks me, I'll come up with ye old feller for that
'grody flewry'. ~fore I quit ye. So I told him we
set for our picters; and he fixed the plate and the ma-
chine, and arranged us in our cheers the way we
wanted to be represented-and then he took us. But
the first one wasn't good. The Elder he hosted his
eyebrows-it 's a trick o' hisen-and so his picture had
as much as a dosen pair of eyes. 'T was rather big.
ger 'n I wanted it tew. I axed him if he couldn't
make one ru.ther smaller. He said, '0 yes, he had a
process by which he could manage 'em down to any
size.' So we sot agin, a little fiirder off from the ma-
chine, and that time 't was good. I was so much
pleased with it, I told him I 'd have another one took
for Miss Sam Pendergrass, a friend o' mine. The el-
der looked rLlther surprised, but he didn't say noth-
ing. Well, he got another one full as good as the
first; and I liked it so well, I concluded to have an-
other one to fetch home with me. The elder opened
his eyes and looked surpriseder 'n ever; but I gin hi~i~
a look, and he bUd his tongue.~ Mter he 'd finished
'em all up, and got 'em alP sot in the cases, says I,
'Well, now, Mi~. Montgomery, what d' ye ta±?'
Well,' says he, 'my regular price for a double pieter
is tew dollars; but I always want to dew the Lair
thing by the clargy.-ginerally make a pint toithrow
~ff some for them. So in your case I wont ta~ but
five dollars for the hull.' As good luck would have
10


K

218

WIDOW BEDOTT 1?Ar]~1RS.

it, IL happened to have that ar buzzom-pin he~ sold me
elder in my work-pocket. It had ben th~re ever
since the Elder first showed it to me, So IL takes it
out and holds it up afore him. 'T was as green as
grass, and any body could see in a minit that 't was
brass. 'There,' says I, 'that 's a buzzum-pin that my
husband bought of a pedlar and paid him five dollars
for it. He was a wonderful pious pedlar-had jest ex-
perienced religion-and of course he wouldn't take
the advantage of a minister o' the Gospel; and lie
said 't was woth double the money he taxed; but
seem' he was trading' with the clargy, he wouldn't
charge but half-price. To be sure, it client look so
green then as it does now-the greenness was princi-
pally on husband's side. Now I 'm willing' to dew as
well by you as Jabe Clark done by my husband. I '11
let ye have this pin to pay for the picters, and won't
ax no boot.' Then I gin him a known' look.
I wish you could a seen the critter. I tell ye 't was
n.h1 as Jeff says. He turned pale, and then he
turned red, ~and looked as if he was completely
stumped. The elder he begun to ham and haw as if
he was a gwine to say something. ~ut I looke~ at
him in a way thal made him think 't wasn't ~r,6th
while. Elder Cumstork tew looked perfectly as
tonished. He examined the pin, and says he, "Why
Sister Sniffles, this ere 's' brass and no mistake~--that
~dlar cheated brother Sniffles most wickedly."

THE REV. MRS. BNIFF~LESATHOME. 21~
"What 1" says I, "you don't 8'pose that a pedlar
that had experienced religion at a protracted. meeting ,
and sold splendid 'grody flewry' silk for only a dol'
lar a yard, and linen cambric handkerchers that wci~'n't
half cotton, for half price, would put off a brass buz
zom-pin onto a clergyman for gold! what an idee !"
Brother CulnstQrk didn't say no more. Well, Mi'.
.Alontgomery he. stood. there with his knees a shaking'
and a looking' as if he 'd like to exasperate through the
key hole. At last says I," Come, what do you think
o' the offer ?" "Well, well," says he, "raly, 1-I-"
Then II marched strait up to him, and lied the pin
right under his nose, and says IL, "Mistopher! do you
darst to say that are pin 's brass?" He ketcht it out
o' my hand and stuffed it into his pocket, and says he,
"Well, bein' as you belong to the clergy, IL s'pose I 'd
ought to accommodate ye." So I took my dagger-
types and started off. Jest as I was a passing' out be.
bind the men, Jabe ketcht me slyly by the sleeve,
and says he, "Widder !" "That ain't my name," says
I. "Miss Sniffles, I mean," says he, "I hope ye 'II
keep dark." I client say nothing; but after we 'd
got into the street, right by the corner of the store,
where ther was a hull mess o' men standin', I looks
up to his winder and shakes my daggertypes in his
face, and~ says I, "Jaby Clark, don't yoii~feel green 7"
Then I explained it to Elder Oumstork; and he told


WIflOw BflPOT.T ?APERS.

Smith-and I tell ye it flew like every thing. The
next morning' .ilfr. ffon~qemery was mission .
There cones the elder-he 's hen over to Deacon
Hugle's. I '11 be hanged if he ain't a comm' in with-
out cleaning' his feet. I wonder if any woman ever
had ther patience so tried as mine is all the time!
Here ye be-mud and all. I wonder if it ever occur-
red tew ye what that scraper was put to th~ door for?
Ye never think o' cleaning' yer feet no more 'n as if'
ther wa'n't such a thing in the world. I guess yer
first wife must a ben a wonderful particular wo.
man.
"I assure you, Miss. Sniffles, I, was not aware that
any particles of mud adhered to the extremities of
my boots."
"I presume ye wa'n't aware on 'to Ye 'd go head
foremost into a mud puddle as big as a meetin'-house,
and not be aware on 't. Sal! fetch here the dust pan,
and brush, and clean up this mud, quick. There!
jest like ye! can't take it up without gittin' down on
yer knees to dew it."
"I got down to look after it--~-oouldent see where
't was."
"Couldent see it, hey! Hain't ye no eyes in yer
head? Ye 'ye ben so used to mud and dirt all yet
days, I expose you actilly don't see it without it 's a
lump as big as yer head. Scoured them pans yit?"
"Yes, ma'am."

THE REV. MRS. SNIFFLES AT HOME. 221
"Well, wAhy didn't ye come and let me know when
ye got done-say ?"
"Because I only just got done- this minute."
"That 's a likely story I I '11 bet a dollar ye 'ye ben
a looking' out o' the winder, or talking' to Bets Wilson
this l~alf hour. Go along ~and make up a fire, and
put on the tea little, [boxing her ears] and then go
out and mop off the steps, and git 'em ready for Mr.
Sniffles to dob up with mud agin next time he comes
in.
"Well, Sister Sniffles, I guess I must go."
"What! I thought ye was a gwine to stay to tea."
"No, I can'V-husband 'II be expeetin' me hum to
drink tea with him."
"Well, then, I '11 jest throw~ on my things and run
over and take a dish with ye, for I 'm tired, and do~i't
feel like gittin' vittals myself'
"Brother Sniffles you come along tew."
"Well, then, Sal you may take off the tea-kettle;
and~ don't ye make no more flre-shet up the stove,
and let it go down, and take yer knittiu'-work and stick
to 't stiddy. If ye want zany thing to eat afore we git
/
back, ye may git some o' that cold pork and taters.
Thank fortin the cubbard 's locked, or I s'pose she 'd
~be a pokin' her nose into the rest o' the vittals-
moopin' critter."           (


EXPRESSES HER SENTIMENTS. * 228

x-xT.
SAY I 'in disgusted with this old house; 't ~in'~
fit for genteel folks to live in; looks as if 't was
built in Noah's time, with its consarned old gamble
ruif and leetle bits o' wonders a pokin' out like bird
cages all round. Painted yeller, too, and such a hum.
bly yeller; for all the world jest the color o' calomel
and jollup 1"
"But you are aware, Mrs. Sniffles "
"I say 't ain't fit to live in. I 'in ashamed on 't. I
fe4 awful mortified about it whenever I look at Miss
Myerses and Miss Loderses, and the rest o' the hansoine
sittiwations in 'the neighborhood, with their wings and
their piazzers and folding' doors, and all so dazzling'
white. It 's ridiculous that we should have to live in
such a clistressid looking' old consarn, ~when we 're
every bit and grain as good as they be, if noi~ rather
better."
"Nevertheless, the house is very comfortable."
"Comfortable! who cares for comfort when gintili.

ty 's consarned! I don't.. J say if you 're determined
to stay in it, you 'd ought to make some alterations.
in 't~ You 'd ought to higher the ruff up and. put on
some wings, and build a piazzer jn front with four
great pillars to 't, and knock out that are petition be.
twixt the square room and kitchen, and put folding'
dooi~ instid on't, and then build on a kitchen behind,
and have it all painted white, with green winder
blind. That would look something like, and then I
dent feel ashamed to have genteel company come
to see me, as I dew now. T' other day, when Ournel
Billins and his wife called, I couldn't help n6~ticin'
how contemptible she looked round at the house and
fu.rniture-I actilly was so mortified I felt as if I
should sink right through the floor."
"But you know, Mrs. Sniffles-"
"I say we 'd ought to' have new furnitur.-.--sofys and
fashionable cheers, and curtains, and mantletry orna-
ments, and so forth. That old settee looks like a sight.
And them cheers, tew, they must a iome over in the
ark. And then ther ain't a picter in the house, only
jest that everlasting' old likeness o' Bonyparte. I 'II
bet forty great apples it 's five hundred years old. I
was raly ashamed on 't when I see Miss Ournel Bil..
lins looki at it so scornful when they called here. I
s'pose she was a counterastin' it with their beautiful
new picters they 're jest ben a gittin up from New
York, aU in gilt frames. I seen one on 'em t' other


224    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                           EXPRESSES HER SEKTIMENTS. 225

day in to Mr. Bungle's shop, when I went in with
Sister ~ibbins to look at her portrait that he 's a paint.
in'. I seen one o' Miss Billinses picters there. 'T was
a splendid one, as big as the top o' that are table, and
represented an elegant lady a lyin' asleep by a river,
and ther was a little angel a hoverin' in the air over
her head, jest a gwineto shoot at her with a bow and
arrer. I axed Mr. Bungle what 't was sent to his shop
for, and he said how 't Miss Billins wasn't quite satis-
fled with it on account o' the angel's legs bein' bare,
~and she wanted to have him paint some pantaletts on
em, and he was a gwine to dew it as soon as he got
tima, lie thought 't would be a very interesting' picter
when he got it fixed. I think so tew. I dew admire
pict&amp;s when they ain't all dirty and faded out like old
Bony there. Them Scripter pieces that Sister My~rs
has got hanging' in her front parlor-them she painted
afore ~he was married, strikes me as wonderfull inter.
estin', especially the one that represents Pharoh's
daughter a finding' Moses in the bulrushes. Her para-
sol and the artificials in her bunnit is jest ~s natural as
life. And Moses, he looks so cunnin' a lyin' there
asleep, with his little coral necklace and bracelets on.
0 it 's a sweet picter. And. I like that other one, tew,
that represents Pharoh a driving' full tilt into the
]~ed Sea after the Isrelites. How natural his coat-tails
flies out. I think some Scripter pieces would be very
appropriate for a minister's, house. We might git Mr.

Bungle to paint some for the front parlor, ~nd our
portraits to hang in the back parlor, as Miss Ntyers
has their. But law me! what 's the use o' my talk-
in' o' havin' picters or any thing else that 's decent?
You don't take no interest in it. You seem to be per.
feetly satisfied with this flambergasted old house and
every thing in it."'
£C My former consort never desired any thing supe-
rior to it."
"Your former consort! * I 'm sick and tired o' hear-
in' about her. 'T aint by no means agreeable to have
dead folks throw'd in yer face from mornm' tt night
What if she was satisfied with her sittiwation?
'T ain't no sign I should be. I s'pose she hadent
never ben used to nothing' better, but I have."
"But, Mrs. Sniffles, you must recollect that-"
"I say 't ain't to be put up with. I want to have
some company-ben wanton' tew ever sence we was
married; bi~t as for inviting' any genteel people a visit-
in' to such a distressed old shell as this is, I won't dew
it-and so-Miss Bums and Miss Loder and them
would say I was tryin' to cut a swell, and couldent
make it out. And I don't mean to accept no more
invitations amoiikst them that lives in style, for it ag-
gravates~me, it does, to think how different I 'm sitti-
wated. So ~o~i may make yer pastoral visits without
me in fixture, for I 'ye made.up~my mind not to go out
none as long as we live in this ri~icilous old house."
10*

9
224

225


226    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPI~R5.                                EXPRESSES~~HER SENTIMENTS.    227

But recollect, Mrs. Sniffles, this house is a parsonage
~-.I occupy it rent free."
"I don't care if 't is a parsonage. I say the congre-
gation miglat afford you a better one, and for my part,
I 'in disposed to make a fuss about it."
"Mrs. Sniffles, you must be aware that I am not
possessed of inexhaustible means. I have never at-
tempted to conceal from you this fact-therefore, you
must also be aware that there exL8ts an entire impossi-
bility of my erecting a new residence on the plan
which you propose. Nor is it at all probable that the
congregation would be willing to make such altera-
tions in this as you suggest. Yet, I assure you, that I
have not the slightest objection to your employing
your ourn means in the construction of a more elegant
edifice."
own means!"
"Yes, Mrs. Sniffles.. Your dissatisfaction with the
parsonage is so great, that I have for soffie time past
been expecting you would propose building a new res-
idence; and I repeat that such an appropriation of a
portion of your funds would meet my concurrence."
"My funds I"
"Your funds, Mrs. Sniffles. It is a delicate subject
and one on which I have hitheito hesitated to make
inquiry, although possessing an undoubted right to do
so. I have been expecting ever since our. union, that

~ou would inform me how and where your property
is invested."
"My property I"
"Your property, Mrs. Sniffles. In what does it
consist, if I may be permitted to inquire.?"
"Land o' liberty! yot~ know as well as I. dew."
"What am I to infer from that observation ?"
"Jest what you 're a mind to. I ain't woth money,
and I never said I was."
"Mrs. Sniffles, you are well aware that on your ar-
riVal in this place, common report p1~onounced you to
be an individual of abundant means, and I have at.
ways labored under this impression-an impression
which, allow me to remind you, yourself confirmed
in a conversation which occurred between us in the
parsonage grove."
"You don't mean to say 't I told you so, and you
darsent say 't I did."
"A-hem-I mean to say that you did not deny it
when I delicately alluded to the subject. On the con-
trary you led me to infer that such was the fact, and
under that impression I was induced to accede to your
proposal."
"My proposal? What do you mean to insinniwate ?"
"I should have said your-your---evidetit inelina-
lion for a-a-matrimonial engagement. I deeply re~
gret, Mrs. Sniffles, thatyon should have allowed your.
self to practice upon me what I can not consider many

/


228   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

other light than 'That of a heinous and ~unmitigated
deception. I regard it as an act quite incompatible
with your religious professions."
"You dew, hey? well, you can't say 't I ever told
you out and out that I was woth property; and if
you was a mind to ,~'pose so from what I did say, I 'm
sure 't ain't my fault, nor I ain't to blame for other
folkses saying I was a rich widerr"
"Mrs. Sniffles, I lament exceedingly that you should
view it in that light. You cawbut acknowledge that it
was your duty when I requested information on the
subject, to have given me a correct account of your
property."
"I hadent no property to give ye an account of."
"You should have told me so, Mrs. Sniffles and
not have suffered me to infer that you was in easy
circumstances."
"I tell ye agin, I couldn't help what you inferred,
and s'pozen I could, which was the most to blame, me
for letting' you think I was rich, or you for marrying'
me because you thought I was rich? For my part, I
think that was rather incompatible with your profess.
ions. .Alinisters had ought, to have their affections sot
above transiterry riches."          -
"Mrs. Sniffles, this is a-.a---.delicate subject, we
wll waive it, if you please."
"But I think the congregation ought tG fiz up the
hQuse."

EXPRESSES HER SENTIMENTS. 229
"I will lay it before the session at the next meet-
ing."
"Well, dew, for pity's Bake. And if they agree to
fix it, I'll go a journey somewhat while it 's a bein' al-
tered, and you can board round, and ~Sal can sta~y at
siste~ Magwire's."
Extracts from~ Mi's. Sniffles' Diary.
SABBATH DAY EVENING.-O, what a precious seas
son this day has been to me! My pardner has
laUd forth with uncommon unction. 0, may he long
be a burning' and shining' lighV to the world! My feel-
ins ,to-day has been of the mQst desirable natur. 0
that I could say so every night! but, alas! ther is
times when I feel as cold as a stun, when the face 0'
creation seems to frown, and evidences is wonderful
dull. And then agin, I 'm as bright as a dollar, and
have such wonderful clear manifestations, and such
uncommon nearness-and such a sense of internal
satisfaction. 0 that I could always feel as~I 'd ought
to feeL ])ear suzt I 'm often reminded o' what my
deceased companion, the lamented Deacon J3edott,
used to remark, "We 're ill poor critters."
To-day we're liable to faU~
To-morr~w up we climb,
Yor 't ain't our nature toeu~oy
1~eligion all the time.
Mo~wix...-4tave ben very much exercised today
on account of Saily Blake, our help. ~er depr~vd

0


~3O   .' WIDOW   DEDOT~ PAPERS.
I
natur has showed out in a very tryin' manner. But I
feel to rejoice that I 'ye ben enabled to be faithful with
her. Howl have wrestled, day and night for that dis-
tressid child! 0, that I may have grace to bear with
patience and resignation the daily trials I have to un-
dergo with her! I feel to be thankful that thus far I
have~ben supported and hadn't sunk under it as many
would a done. 0 that I may be enabled to feel and
realize that such afflictions is sent for the trial of my
faith.
THURSDAY.LO, what a responsible sittiwation is
mine as President of the "F. U. D. ~f. E., and A. So.
ciety I" I 'ye realized it in an overwhelming' degree
to-day. attended the meeting' this afternoon, and
some very onpleasnt circumstances oc~ured. But I
feel to be truly thankful that I had grace to preserve
my uniformity in the midst, of the diffikilties. I wish
I could say as much for some o' the rest o' the mem-
bers, especially Sail Hugle. 0, the vanity and pride
o' that critter! it grieves me to the heart.
SAXURDAY..-My beloved Shadrach has jist i~aform-
ed .me that the parsonage is to be repaired and made
comfortable., My dear pardner h~s requested it to be
done entirely to please me, and*~ quite unbeknown to
me. It's true it needs it bad enough, but then I never
should a thought o' complaining' about it. I feel that
I 'm a pilgrim and a sojourneyer here, and hadent
ought to. be partickler, and so I told the elder when he

EXPRESSES HER SENTIMENTS. 231
proposed havin' the house repaired. But he insisted.
on 't and. I consented more for his sake than my own.
o that I maybe truly thankful for the blessing linjoy
especially for such a pardner!
Blest be the day o' sacred mirth
That gave my dear companion birth;
Let men rejoice while Silly sings
The bliss her precious Shadrack brings.


AUNT MAGUIRE'5 EXPERIENCE. 23~

N
XXII.
fjON'T care~a snap for him, hey? Now Nancy
5' Harring~on, I want to know if you think
you 're a gwine to make me believe such a story a~
that? I know better. I can see as fur into a mill-
stone as any body-and I know and have know'd for
better 'n six months how 't you and Jasper Doolittle
tuck a notion to one another. 'T is extrawnary how
gals will talk! If you don't care a snap for him~.
what makes you gc~ with him to letters, and concerts
and 8leigh-rides, and all kinds o' dewins? Don't tell
me you don't care a snap for him. lie 's a real nice
young man tew-stiddy rend iudustru~ and dewin'
well-you never 'II have a better chance in yer life-
mabby he hain't said nothing' partickler to you yet-.
but that 's n~ sign he ain't a gwine tew as soon as he
gits his curri~ge up. He 's rutlier bashful, you know
-it takes them sort o' fellers longer to come ~o the pint
in such matters; they want considerable sppxrin' up,
and I advise you not to let nobody else hear you say
YOtl don't care nothing' about Jasper Doolittle-trouble

comes o' them kind o' speeches. I know by experi-
ence-I come purty nigh losin' yer Uncle Joshaway
by makin' an unprudent remark 0' that nater. I 'II
tell you how 't was, and mabby you 'II take warning'
by it. I remember egzackly when 't was-'t ~as in
the month o' March, about tew year and a half arter
Sister Bedott was married; yer uncle and me 'd ben
keeping' company all winter: he come t' our house
every Sabberday evening' regularly, besides always
seem' me hum from singin'-scliool and evening' meet~
ins, and so forth-.--.'t was town talk that we was en~
gaged-Joshaway Magwire and Melissy Poole-that
was the story all round. But all this time, mind you
-he hadent said a word tew me about havin' on him,
though I was suspectin' every day when he would.
You see he was awful bashful. Well, one night
('t was in the month o' March), we was gwine hum
from singin'-school---rnaTy one on us dident say nothing'
for some ways. At last yer uncle ham'd and haw'd
tew or three tim~s, and then says he to me, says he,
"Melissy I" says I," iley ?"-but he didn't ~ontinner
for some time~-arter a speiiae hani'd and haw'd agin
-and he says to me, says he, "Melissy 1', says I,
"Well-what?" but still he didn't container. At
last I see we.was a gittin' purty nigh huni-so I says
to him, say I, "Joshaway~what was you a gwine to
remark ?" So then he says, says he, "I was a gwine
to say-" but his cwaidg&amp;failed and he didn't finish.


284   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

Afore long we come to the gate, and there we stopt
(we used to stop awhile at the. gate in a general way),
and' says he, "Melissy !" says I, "Joshaway Maguire,
what dew you want?" "Why," says he," "I was a
gwine to ax you-." Jest 'then yer granf'ther Poole
opened the d'oor and came out, and so yer uncle went,
off and I went in. Well-next day Hanner Canoot
come in t' our house-and she begun to joke me
about yer uncle-now I never could bear Hanner
Canoot-she was a regular mischief-makin' old maid-*
always a meddling' with every, body's bizness in the
place-and sure as she see a young ~upp1e apparently
attached to one another, she 'd insiniwate sutin' or
other against 'em. She couldn't git no sWeetheart
herself; and it made her awful cross-grained and mad
- at them as could git 'em. I' hadent never had no,
diffikilty with her-but I disposed her-and yer
gram'ther Poole used to say to me frequently, "Me-
lissy, dew be keerful what you say afore planner
Canoot-she 's a dangerous critter"-and I was kerful
in a general way. And then, you see, ther was,
another thjng about it-there was her brother, Josiar
Canoot-he 'd ben tryin' to be perlite to me tew or
three year-and I wouldn't keep company with him,
nor have nothing' to say tew him-and planner she
know'd it, and felt awful spiteful to me on account o'
that. Speaking o' Siar Oanoot-the last 'time I was up
to Wiggletown, yer Aunt Bedoot telled me he was

AUNT MAGUIRE'S EXPERIENCE. ~85
quite pertickler to her. lie hain't never ben married.
I s'pose ixobody wouldn't have him-he wa~ so lazy
and so consarned disagreeable, and so awful humbly.
Why his hair was as read as blazes-and he hadent
no nose at all-and what ther was on 't turned right
up straight. When yer Aunt Bedott tell'd me about
his stepping' up to her, I say, says I,, "Ii hope you
won't incurridge him, Silly-for he 's a poor. shiftless
critter. Why. no he ain't, another " says she, "he 's
ben in the millentary and got to be Cappen Canoot."
"I don't care for that," says I; "'t wouldent make no
difference to me if he was gineral-he 's Si Oanoot
and always will be." Well, I felt awful worried
about it, and when I come hum, I teller yer uncle
on 't, and says he, " 0 don't you be afeard 0~ Silly's
niarryin' him. I '11 be bound he ain't no idee o'
niarryin' her. She always thinks the men has serus
intentions if they look at her"~-that's what yer uncle
said-and I don't say but what 't i~ so-Sister Bedott 's
a curus critter-tho' she 's a ni~e woman in the main.
Well, I was a gwine to tell what planner said; sh~
begun to joke me-and say~ she (I was a spinning on
a gret wheel you know), well she begun at me and
says she, "Melissy, they tell curi~is stories about you;"
~vhiz-whiz-T-whiz went the wheel, an'~d I portended
I d.ident hear her.. Arter a spell she spoke up louder,
and says she, "Melissy-they tell strange stories
about you and Joshaway;" wh -whiz~-~.whi~ went


288 WIDOW DEDOTT PAPflBS.4
the wheel, I made as if I dident hear a word, she said
-so bymebye she turns to your gram'ther (she
was a, setting' there), and says she-" How is it, Miss
Poole? when 's that are wedding' comm' on ?" "What
wedding ?" says mother, says she. "Why, Melissy
* and Joshaway Magwire, beshure," says Hanner, says
she. "Never.-not as I knows on," says mother,
says she, "I don't know nothing' about no such
bizness." Well-she see she coulident git no satisfac-
tion out o' mother, so she hollers to me agin and sa
she, "seems. to me yer rather hard o' hearing' to-day,
Melissy." Whizi-z-z-z.z went the wheel louder 'n ever,
U
and I dident take' no notice o' what she said. Purty
soon she bawled out agin, and says she~~.~" I guess
what makes you so deef; you must a ketcht cold in
yer h~a;d last nig1at~-.--'t was rather a long journey you
tuck to git hum"--(yoii see yer uncle and me went
lIum1y. the turnpike inside o' gwine cross lots-but
how the critter found it out, dear knows). Well, I
dident pay no 'tention, but I tell you I wa~ a gittin'
awful mad. Arter a spell she gits up and 'comes and
dumps herself right down aside o' me, and says she,
"Say, Melissy, dew tell when you and Joshaway 's a
gwine to step oIl~-~-he's a very nice young man, tho'
I guess he won't never set the river afire." When
she said that, I was completely ryled up. I 'd ben a
grown' madder and madder all the time-to think o'
her tellin' right afore mother about our comm' hum

"Ilanner Oannoot-yer a medling old maid, I wish you'd mind yer own hiz-
ness, and lenf me atone about Josh. Nlagaire, I wouldrCt wipe my old shoes on
him.                                                           page 23T.

4 .


by the turnpike-and then sayin' "he wouldent never
set the river aflre"-'t was tew much, I couldn't hold
in no longer; so I turned round and shook my wheel-
pin in her face, and says J, "Hanner Canoot-yer a
medcllin' old maid. I wish you 'd mind yer own
bizness and lem 'me alone about Josh Magwire-I
wouldn't wzpe my old 6hoes on him." Now what did
the critter dew when I spoke so? Why she snorted
right out a laffin, and says she, "0, don't gitwin a pas.
sion, Melissy---don't; dew keep your temper till yer
married-dew." Thirty soon she Went hum. This
was a Friday. Well-Sabberday come and I didn't
see nothing o' Joshaway. I thought 't was rather queer,
but I reokon'd on seem' on him to Wensday evening'
meetin'-so I waited with patience till We~isday
evening' come, and I Went to meeting . Well, he was
there, and I s'posed of course he'd wait on me hum
-but when meeting' was out, lo and behold! he went
straight apas me and axed. Obey Foggerson if he
should have the pleasure o~ ~eein' her hum! Then. it
all come thro' my head like a flash o' liglitnin', W~at
I said to Hanner Canoot-and I know'd. sh~d told
him on 't as well as if I'd heerd her. I tell yoiii felt
like death! I never know'd till that niinnit how
much I sot~y Joshaway Magwfre-the id~e o' boosiii'
On ]iim was awful' ~ggrairatin'.
Well, I got ]rnm somehow or other and went
strai~htoff to bed-but I dident sleep nun t~hat night.

I

AtTNT MAGUIRE '8 ~XPflRI~O. 287


288    WIDOW BEDOTT PArERS.

4
In the morning ' I got up with a tremenjuous headache,
and looking' as pale as a ghost. Mother, she~ axed me
whether or no I wasn't sick. IL telled her no; but all
that day IL wasn't fit for no bizness-dident have no
appertite-ana when night come yer gram'ther ~felt
so consarned about~ me, she gin me a dose o' perrigar.
lick-cause she said if I didn't sleep that night IL 'd sar.
tinly be attacked with the fever. In spite o' the per-
rigarlick IL didn't sleep a wink that night another.
Next day I felt woss than ever, but IL was awful high
sperrited, and IL was determined nobody shouldent
know the reason. Thinks me if Joshaway 's a mind
to use me so, he may and be hanged to him. IL ain't
a gwine to kill myself On account o' him-he ain't the
oniy young man in the universe. That was the~ way
I talked-to myself-but talking' and dewin 's tew
things, you know, Nancy. The more IL tried to de-
spise yer uncle, the more IL couldent-the more I tried
to hate him the better I liked him: Well, so it went
on for a number o' weeks. Yer uncle never come
Ii me. IL used to see him to singing ' school and
ne~tin', but he never oft~ered to see me hum-always
went with Obey Foggerson. Afore bong,~ every body
wasatalkin' about him, and ~Cboey Foggerson. But
what worked me most was-the gals begun to blag..
guard me about bosin' my sweetheart, and thinks me,
i1'll git him back if IL die for 't. So arLer ponderin'
on't .a spell, I made up mind I'd in~urri~ Siar

288

I

AUNT MAGUIRE' S EXPERIENCE. 2~9
Cannot, and see 'f that wouldn't bring yer uncle tew.
Si was ready enough to step up, you. know, but IL 'd
gi'n him the mitten so many times, he was af'eard to
venture. 'So one day I goes by his shop (he was a
w~ggin-maker by trade, you know)-he was a stand-
in' in the door as he always was-in a general way-
(he was everlasting' lazy)-well, IL says, says IL, "How
de dew, Mr. Cannot ?" I tell you IL never see a sur-
prisder critter 'n what he was-IL hadent spoke tew
him in better 'n a year. "~Well as common," says he.
Says I," Why don't you never com ~to see us now
days, Mr. Cannot ?" The critter was mighty tickled
-and says he-" The reason IL hain't ben 's cause IL
reckoned my company wasn't agreeable." "0! Mr.
Cannot, you mustent think so," says I-and then I
went off. Well, next night he come t' our house, and
~rter that he come every night-and I tell you 't v~as
an awful cross to me to treat him any way decent-
for IL hated the critter like pizen: but IL managed to be
perlite tew him, and afore a week's time he poppt the
question. IL tell'(l him 't was very unexpected and I
must consider on 't a spell aCore I gin him an anser.
He seemed apparently satisfied, and continnerd to
waft on me; and I could see 't yer uncle felt oneasy
by the way ~e lookt sideways at us whenever he see
us together-but still lie never come nigh. me nor of.
fered tew speak tew me-and so it went on for tew
hull mo~h~. All the nabors begun to ta~1k about


WIDOW DEDOTT PAPERS.

Josiar Canoot and me-and Siar himself was a teazin'
on me to know whether I hadent considered eny most
long enough-and what to dew I didn't know. I
was nigh upon crazy-my health failed-i hadent no
appetite, nor no sperrits. Yer gram'ther was awful
oneasy about me. You see I was all the darter she
had left to hum. Ye7r mar was married and gone and
yer Aunt Bedott was married and gone tew. Well,
I got to be a miserable critter. One evening, arter
supper, I was in a dretful state o' mind. I know'd
* Siar was a comm' that night to git his anser, and I
wanted to git red on him. So I huv on my things
and slipt out and went up to sister Bedott's. She
lived to the upper eend o' the village. Well,' I
found yer Aunt Bedott to hum alone. Yer Uncle
]Iez wasn't h-gone to some meeting' or other-and
Kiar (he was a baby' then), he was asleep in the cra-
dle. "I 'm glad you 'ye cum," says Silly, says 8he,
"for I 'r~ a~fu1 lonesome. Hez has gun off somewhere
-dear knows wher: 't is amazing' how any man ca~
be wiflin' to leave his pardner alone as much as he
does. I 'm 'clear out o' patience with it-if it hadent
a ben for that flambergasted young one's havin' the
srnrffles, I 'd a went off somewhere myself" (Yer
.&amp;irnt Beclott 's a nice woman, but sh~ was always an
awfulgrumbler.-they ckw ~ay she jawed the d~at~on
out o' the world.) Well, so she went on s~6ldin' and
frettin' and tellin' h~r troubles and trials, for ever so

a

240

AUN'T MAGUIRE' S EXPERIENCE. 241
long; at last I broke in, and ~says I," 0! Silly, don't
go on so-you dont know what trouble is." I said it
in a kind o' way that startled her, and says she, "Me.
lissy, what dew you mean ?" I bust right out a cry~
in'. Yer aunt huv down her knitting' work and come
up tew me, and says she, "Melissy Poole, what is the
matter ?" I kept on a cryin' and dident anser. At
last say she, "Dew tell what ails you, Melissy, dew-
't ain't nothing' about Joshaway Magwire, I hope. I
wouldent fret my gizzard for him.; ther '~ as good
fishes in the sea as any 't ever was ketcht yit." Well,
arter a spell, thinks me.'-I may as well tell her. 56'
I teller her the hull from beginning to eend~:~~how
nigh yer uncle come to popping' the question-what I
said to Hanner Oanoot-how she provoked me to say~
it-how undoubtedly she 'd told Joshaway. oui 't-and
all how and about it. Well, at Lust yer aunt blowed
me up sky high, for makin' such an unprudent speech
(she was unprudent enough herself; but she hadent
no patience with any body else for bein' so). At last
says she, "What's said can't be onsaid-the only way
to mend the mischief is for 'Joshaway and you to git
together and make it up somehow." "But how ca~i
wegit together," says I; "I can't go to see him, and
he don't never come to see me no more." Arter
thiiikin' a spell, says Silly, says she (Silly was always
a ou~anin' critter), "I 'ye got it now; you jest stay
here and see to the baby, and I '11 run into the Widder
11


ii
'I

A

t

242      WiDow    BjEDOTT PAPERS.
Magwire's-it 's a good while sence I 'ye been there.
It 's purty dark now, and by the time I come hum
it '11 be ~awfu1 dark, and Joshaway he '11 come with me
-he 's did it several times-he 's wonderful perlite-
and when we git to the door i[ '11 ax him to come in
and see husband. ]jlez won't be to hum 't ain't likely
.-but Josh won't know but what he is-and when he
once gits in, I'll bet forty gret apples you and he '11
make it all straight purty soon." "0, Silly," says I,
"that 's a real good idee-but you mustent let him
know I 'm here, cause if you dew lie won't come, in."
"I won't, sartin sure," says she. So she put on her
things and off she went, and I sot down the back side
o' the room and begun a contrivin' what I should say
to yer uncle. 0, Nancy! you 'ye no idee what a state
of preturbation I was in-one minnit I, was afeard I
~houldent say nothing' to no purpose-and the next
mi.nnit I was eny most sure o' gittin' Joshaway back
agin. Well, Sister Bedott was gone a hull hour.
* You see Joshaway wasn't to hum when she went, and
SQ she stayed till he come. It did seem to me as if
she was gone a year. At last I heerd ~em a comm'.
They got to the door and says yer uncle, says he,
"Good night." ~"0, you come in, dew," says yer
Aunt Silly, says she; "Mr. Bedott wants to see you
ama~inly." "Well," says he, "I '11 step in a minnit."
So in they come. "Why," says Sister Bedott, says
she, "I wonder where husband is! you set down by

AUNT MAGtTIRE'S EXEBIEI~TG]~. 243
the fire and I '11 go call him-he can't be fur oft I 'm
sure; he woifident go off and le~ve the baby alone."
So he sot down with his back to me-{I was a setting'
where lie didn't see me), and she went off into t' other
room and shot the door. Gracious sakes alive! I
never in my hull life experienced such feelings as I did
that minnit-and I never shall agin if I lire a thous-
and year. It seemed as if my heart would jump right
out o' my mouth. Arter a minnit or so I ham'd.-yer
uncle he started and lookt round-and when he see
me he riz up and made for the door. Thinks me,
I 'ye lost him now sartain, sure. Jest as he got his
hand on the latch, says I, "Mr. Magwire !" lie stopt
and lookt round at me, and says he, "Did you speak
to me, Miss Poole ?" "Yes," says I. "What did you
want ?" says he ;-he spoke so cold and onconsarned,
I felt clear discurridged,. and I jest~bust right out a
cryin'. So then he come up to me, and says he, "Me-
]issy 1" Says I, "Joshaway, what n~takes you so cold
and distant to me lately ?" Says he, "You 're en~
gaged7 ain't you, Melissy ?" Says,. I "No I ain.'tr-no
such a thing." Arter a *minnit he says, says he,
"What made you say you wouldn't wipe yer old
shoes on me?" "Cause I woulden4" says I, "and
ther ain't but one feller in the town I would sarve such
a mean trick; and that 's Siar Oanoot-he 's jest fit to
wipe old shoes on." Now Nancy what do you s'poze
yer uncle done then? Why he huv his arms round

N


WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

nay neck, and giv me such a thunderin' smack as I
never got af'ore nor sence. "0, Melissy," says he,
"we '11 be married arter all the fuss-won't we ?"
"I shouldent wonder," says I. And we was married
in less than a month, and I hadn't never had no 'casion
to iepent-for he 's made me a Lust ,rate husband; but
only think how nigh I come to losin' on him jest for
speaking' as I did to Hanner danoot. She hain't never
ben nigh me sence I was married-and as for Siar,
he was.as mad as the Dragon.

*

XXIII.

~xnt ~                      ~t
8EE it 's about year since you was here, ain't it,
Nancy? 'T wasn't long afore you was married, I
know. Well, ther 's been some changes here since
then. We 'ye lost our old minister, Parson Scrantum,
and got a new one. He seems to beJ a very good man,
Parson Tuttle does-quite young yet-jest begun to
preach, hain't ben married but a little while. And his
wife appeared' like a nice woman, tew. But I feel
sorry for 'em. This is a trying plae~ for a minister,
and a minister's wife, tew. Though ~don't know but
what all places are jest so. All goes on' slick enough
yet-~but I 'm afeard 't won't last long. They hadn't
ben here but three month&amp;-and the folks are maldn'
a terrible fuss over 'em. You know it 's the way they
always dew when they git a new minister. They 're
ready to e~t him up for a spell. And his wife-law-
ful sakes! ther ~s nothing equil tew her. They. make
an awful parade about her. Such treatment spile~ the
minister's wh~es~ Afore long they begin to think

lit

244

Ii

a


*

Ii
Ii,
ij~,
1111
11
I:
L
~1J
it
II'

themselves the most important characters in creation-
and really expect the hull community to be a flyin'
round all the time to attend tew 'em. And 't ain't at
all surprising' it should be so-it 's according' to natur.
But after a spell, the minister gits to be an old story,
and the people begin to find fault with him. Some
think he 's gittin' wonderful tejus; some think he ain't
gifted in prayer, and he ain't sperritual minded enough
to suit some others. / But the most general complaint
is, that he don't visit enough. As if a minister could
write tew sermons a week-sometimes threc-and go
a visiting' every day besides. And then his wife-'t is
astonishing' how public opinion changes consamnin' her
The upper 'crust begin to think she 's a troublesome
helpless critter. Say she depends on the congregation
to take care of her, and all that. They pick flaws in
every thing she says and does. And the under crust
call her proud-say she visits Miss This, and don't
visit Miss That.  f she invites some of her neighbors
to drink tea with her-some o' the rest '11 be mad, be-
cause she left them out, and say, she feels above 'em.
And so it goes on-gittin' woss an&amp; woss----she can't
pleasenobody. After' a spell, the deacons begin to
hint to the. minister that it 's gittin' rather hard to raise
his salary, and wonder whether or no he could n't live
on less. If he thinks he could n't, they wonder whetli-
er or no he could n't dew more good in some other place.
So at last they drive him to ax a dismission, and the

246

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

I

IT'
1~
a

p
THE DONATION      PARTY.         247
poor man takes his family and goes off somewhere
else, to go through with the same trials and troubles
over again. And after they 'ye been settled about a
dozen times, the minister begins to find out that all
ain't gold that glitters; and his wife if she is a woman
o' sense-discovers that she ain't a supernatural b~in~
and must take care of herself, like other folks.
That 's the experience o' ministers in general. I
know it by my own observation-'and I 'm sure it
had ben the case with the Scrantuntis. They 'd ben
settled in a number o' places afore they come here;
and Miss Scrantum, herself, told me that it took her a
good while to lam that a minister's life must be a life
o' trial and self:denial. But she did lam it at last.
Miss Scrantum was an excellent woman. She wa'n't
no ladder nor no gossipper. She stayed to hum and
took care of her husband and children. If any body
was sick or suffering , she was there to help 'em; but
she seldom ~vent out any other time. She was good
to the poor, lew-and divided her mite with 'em.
You 'd a thought folks couldn't find fault with her.
But they did. Some grunibled because she w'n't more
sociable-and some was mad because she wasn't what
they called an act ~ve Christian-that is-she wasn't wil-
lin' to spend the heft o' her time a ru.nnin.' round on
missionary bisness and distribitin' tracts, and so forth.
But every body was outrageous at her, cause she tried
to reconcile Liddy Ann Buel and Deacon Fustick's


4

248

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

THE DO'~ATION PARTY

249

ii
'it
'ii
iii
iit
Pt
'it

wil~.-instid o' takin' sides with ary one on 'em.-.-.when
they had that awful quarrel about the osfridge feath-
ers. But I thought-and think yet-.that Miss Scram'
turn acted jest as a Christian ought to act in that biz-
ness, though every body else blamed her; and Liddy
Ann and Miss Fustick got as mad at her as they was
at one another.
Parson Scrantum was a good man, tow-and a
smart man-they didn't know how to vally him here.
To be sure he went away of his own accord; but
I s'pose if ho 'd a wanted to stay, they 'd a druv him
off afore long-jest as they always dew-for husband
said they was beginning' to growl about payin' the sal-
ary. I tell ye, I felt dretfiil sorry when they went
away, and so did yer uncle-we sot a great deal by
em. And then they had such a nice family 0~ child-
ren. Susan, the oldest, is as nice a gal as ever I
know'd. I took a wonderful likin' tow her. Her
mother used to let her come in often and set a spell
with me. I was awful lonesome after Jefferson went
off to study to be a doctor. Yer uncle was in the
shop biggest part o' the day, and I used to be here all
stark alone a goo&amp; deal o' the time; and when Miss
Scrantuin found out how loneson~e I was she used to
send Susan over sometimes to see me. She 'd fetch her
sewin' or her knitting' and stay an hour or tei~ir; and
sometimes she 'd fetch a book and read tow" me, and it
used to ehirk me up wonderfully. And Mr Scrantum,

ii,
it':'

he used to come in once in a while, and always had
something' good to say.
"You said he went away of his own accord, aunt;
how did it happen?"
Wellt I '11 tell ye. When they gin hinra call to set-
tle here, they agreed to give him four hundred dollars
a year and a donation party every winter. Well, he
thought he could live on that. Four hundred dollars
was purty small, to be sure, but then they was very
equinomical and* industriou~-dident keep no hired
help-Miss Scrantuni and Susan done all the work
themselves. And they thought the donation party
would be quite a help-they never 'd had none-they
wasn't custoifiary where they come from. Well, they
managed to git along through the summer and fall.
(They come here in the spring o' the year.) In De-
cember follerin',the congregation gin 'em their first do.
nation party. I didn't go; I never had ben to none;
used to kind o' w~t' to go sometimes-but yer uncle
wasn't wilin' to have me-he never approved o' them
givin' visits. He thinks that when the people want to
make their minister a present, they 'd ought to give it
in a private way, and not go and turn his house upside
down, to dew it. So I dident go to that one. But I
don't think the Scrantums thought any the less of us
for it; for they know'd we was as willing' to dew well
by 'em as any o' the congregation was, for yer uncle
always paid his pew rent promptly, and that 's more
11*


250

WIDOW BED OTT PAPERS.

251

THE DONATION PARTY.

some that was richer done. And, besides that, we
often sent 'em presents. They always looked upon us
as the best friends they had here.
Well, never heerd how the donation party come
out. Miss Scrantum never said nothing about it, and
I never axed her no questions; only I know that
through the rest o' the whiter the minister's folks
seemed to be more pinched than ever. I was in there
quite often, and though they didn't make no com-
plaints, I could see plain enough that they had to
scrimp and save, and patch and turn every way, to
keep any how comfortable; for they had house-rent
to pay, and six children to support, and. it takes con-
siderable to feed so many, to say nothing' o' clothing' and
eddicatin' on 'em. They had a good deal o' com~iany,
tew, and that costs something. You see they had to
entertain all the straggling' agents that come along, for
all sorts o' societies in creation.' They 'd stop there to
save payin' tavern bills. It 's the way they always
dew, ye know. Well, they contrived to live along
till the next winter. The time come round for anoth-
er donation party; and I says to yer uncle, says I-
"Husband,, I war~t to go to that givin' visit~ "0,
shaw," says he, "what do you want to go for ?" "0,
says I, "'cause I think so much o' the minister's folks."
"Well,?' says he, "that 's the principal reason why I
should want to stay away from the givin' visit myself;
as for you-of course you can do as ye please."

"Well, then," says I, "if you hain't no objections, I'll
go; and I wish you 'd go tew, jest for once. 'T ain't
no use to ax me to go," says he; "it 's against my prm-
ciples; I always mean to dew all I 'm able to support
the Gospel and help the minister; buf as for them
bees-li won't countenance 'em by my presence--that's
all; and let me tell ye one thing, if you go, I '11 bet a
cookey you '11 wish you hadent a went afterward."
"Well that 's my look out," says I. "If you 're wil-
lin'-I[ '11 go." "And, what '11 ye take ?" says he, "a
stick o' tape, or a pint of emptin~, or what ?" "No, I
'won't," says II," I '11 take something o' more vally than
that." "Then you '11 be odd," says he.
So after considering' a spell, I concluded to git, what
Miss, Scrantum needed about as much as any thing, and
that was a new bunnit. She wore a shabby, faded old
thing, that looked as if it came over in the ark. Well,
I thought I could git a ginteeler one in Harristown,
than I could by havin' on 't made here. So I got yer
N
uncle to harness up the hoss for me, one afternoon,
and hem' as he was tew busy to go with me himself; I
went over and axed. Susan Scrantum to go 'long; I
thought she" o d help me about picking' on 't out.
She 'd be likely to know what would suit her mother.
So I goes over and calls for Susan. She was delighted
to go~Zshe dident git a chance to ride very often.
Well, we druv to Harristown, and went into the best
lookin' milliner's shop ther was there. "Now, Susy,"


I
252      WIDoW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
says I "I 'm a gwine t~ git a new bunnit, and I want
your advice about what to choose." "Why, Miss
Magwire," says she, "I thought you bad quite a nice
one a ready." "Well, it is middling' nice," says I,
"but I 'ye wore it tew wintei~s, and some ladies gits a
new one every Winter~ ye know." So we examined
all the bunnits in the shop, and I axed Susan which
she liked the best. "I should think that one would be
very purty for you," says she, pintin' to a plum-color-
ed satin one that hung on a peg. "It's ma's favorite
color, and tha~Sakes me lik~ it." Now that was jest
what I wanted to know. So I axed the millinei~ to
hand it down, and I tried it on, for I reckoned if 't
wo~x1d fit me, 't would fit Miss Scrantum-slac was
about my size-and it did fit nicely, so I bought it. I
had to pay six dollars for 't--quite a launch out for me
-more n ever I paid for a bunnit for myself. Susan
looked as if she ~thought I was rather extravagant, but
she did n't say nothing. Well, I put it in a bandbox
I fetcht, and we went hum. When yer uncle come in
I showed it tew him, and he was quite pleased with it;
and 't was a clear beauty, plum-colored satin, trin~med
ofF with a ribbing the sa~nie color, and lace bordering ,
with white satin bows between, all quilled round the
inside. I axed yer uncle if 't was more expensive
than he was willing' I should give. "No," says he, "I
don't begrudge the money. I want you to dew the
laansome thing,; but 'V ~ou1d suit me a great deal bet'.

253

THE DONATION PARTY.

ter if you wait til the i~ext day and then take it over."
"0 husband," says I, "I 'ye got my heart sot on at-
tendin' the party; dew lemme go." "Well, go," says
he, "if you 're beset tew; but mark my words, I'll
bet a dollar you '11 wish you had n't a went."
Well, the day afore the party Jefferson come hum
to stay a few days. I told him I was gwine to the
donation party, and he said he 'd like no better fQn
than to go with me. Jeff's always ready to go, you
know. So he went and got a ream o' nice paper for the
parson to write his sermons on. At last the day came,
and I andy Jeff; we started off for the party. We
went quite early in the~ evening , for I war4ed to be
there 'fore 't was crowded. Ther hadent nobody come
when we got there, only three or four ladies, that was
a gittin' the supper ready. There was Glory Ann
Billions, and Polly Mariar Stlllman, and Jo Gipson's
wife, and old mother Parker a setting' th~e table. You
know at them kind o' dewins they always have a sup-
per sot for the company. The congregation provides
the entertainment generally, but in~ this place the
minister's wife has to find, a good share on 't. Miss
Scrantum found the tea and coffee, and sugar and
cream, and butter, and so forth. Some o' the neigh-
bors sent in cake and pies, and cheese and biscuit.
But Miss Scrantum was feared ther wouldent be
enough o' the cake and pies-so she sent to the baker's
and got a mess more. 'Well, .1 a~ed Miss Gipson


]

rilE DONATION PARTY.

where we should put our donations, and she told us
to take 'em in the Parlor and lay 'em on the table.
Ther was a table there a purpose to put the dry goods
on. The proylsions was carried into the store-room.
So w~ went in there and laid 'em on the table. The
bunnit was pinned up in ~ newspaper. Jeff he sot
down, and I started off to find Miss Scrantum. IL found
her in the kitchen a makin' coffee. She looked dret-
ful tired and beat out. I was real sorry I hadent a
went sooner and helped her. She was wonderful glad
to ,see me;. and I told her to go and dress herself; and
I 'd make the coffee. So she thanked me and went-
and I took hold and made the coffee. Ther was an
awful sight on 't; I never made so much afore in all
my born days, and II never expect to agim 'T was
made in Miss Scrantum's biler. She 'd scoured it up
for the occasion. 'T was a biler that held~ ten pails
fufl-and it was brigunin full oV coffee. After I 'd got
it made, II went back into the sittin'-room. They 'd
got the table all sot. Ther was lots o' cake, and bis-
cuit, and pies, and cold meat, and all sorts o' stuff.
Then I went into the parlor, and lo and behold, Jo
Gipson's wife and Miss Parker had ondid the bunnit,
and was admirin' on 't at a wonderful rate. Jest then
Mr. and Miss Scranti~ina and the children come in, aud
dear me! how pleased they were with the bunnit.
Miss Scrantum, she txied it on, and it fitted her to a T.
But Susan! you 'd ought to seen Susan! She jumped

and frisked around, and didn't hardly know what to
dew with herself; she was so delighted. "0, Miss
Magwire," says she, "that beautiful bunnit was n't for
you after all, was it? What a dear good woman you
are to make ma s~~h a fine present. She '11 look as
nice as any body~ now-won't you ma?" They seemed
wonderful pleased to see 5efferson, tew; and. Mr.
Scranttun was very glad to git the paper-said 't was
jist what he wanted. Well, purty soon the company
7.
begun to come, and they come pouring m thicker and
faster till the house was crammed. 'The settin'-room
door was locked, so as to keep 'mu out o' there till
supper was ready-and I tell ye all the rest o' the
house was jest as full as it could stick. The parlor and
the hail and the bed-rooms was all crowded and cram-
med. You 'd a thought from the number o' folks
that was there, that ther 'd been a wonderful sight o'
donations brought-but as true as I 'm a livin' critter
-that table wasn't half full. But then ther was a
good many families that fetcht one article i~o answer
for the* hull. 'For instance, Deacon Skinner and bis
wife axid four darters and tew sons was all there-and
Miss Skinner fetcht a skein o' yarn to knit Parson
Scrantum some socks. Miss Hopkins and her three
darters and her son and his wife, that was a visiting' her,
and. ihe~3' three children all come-and Miss Hopkins
brought half a pound o' tea. And the Runyons with
tlaefr four young one~-what do you think they

[

254    WIDOW BEDOTTPAPERS.                                                   255

254

255


256   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

THE DONATION PARTY.  257

I

brought? why, Miss IRunyon fetcht a 'little fancy
basket to stick on the center-table and p~it visiting'
cards in. And the Miss Footes, three on 'em they
brought Miss Scrantgni a pair o' cuffs. And all the
flinghams, they fetcht a neck ribbon for Susan. And
Deacon Peabody and his tribe, ther 's as much as a
dozen on 'en~, they brought a small cheese. I heerd
afterward that half o' it was a donation and t' other
half was to go for pew rent. And Cappen Smalley and
all his children was there. He fetch a box o' raisins
rout o' his store, ther was twelve pound in 't, and Susan
told me afterward that ten pound was to go toward
pew rent, and the rest was a present. The Widder
Grimes and Charity was there, of course. They
dident go nigh the donation table for some time, and
I was kind o' curus to know whether they 'd brought
any thing, and so I watched 'em, and bimebye, I ob-
served Charity go up slily, when she thought nobody
did n't see, and lay a little paper on the table. I had
the curiosity to see What was in it, so as soon as II got
a chance I took up the paper and peeped into 't, and
]o and behold! there were two skeins o' thread! did
you ever? Wider Grimes is well oil; but she 's tew
stingy to be decent, and Charity 's jest like her. Then
there was ever so many belonging to other denomina-
tions, that didn't bripg nothing'; they come to show
their good will, to let folks see that they wasn't bigoted
and prejudiced, though they did direr in a religious

pint o' view, and git their supper. And besides them,
I noticed a great many that I uever~ see before-no-
body knows where they come from nor ~w~here they
went tew. I guess they must a been raised up fo~ the
occasion. And then ther w~s an awful sight o' chil-
dccn that straggled in from every where. Doctor
Lippincott, he was there, bowin' and scraping' i~ound as
usual-awfully anxious about every body's heahh;
and his wife, tew, as much consarned as he was-and
their promising' red-headed boy, and interesting' darter,
Anny Marier, with her six starched skirts on-ta1~in'
up more room than ary ten decent drest girls in the
'room. The doctor always goes to all the donation
parties for fifteen miles round, to make himself popular,
but nobody ~knows of his ever takin' 'any thin'. On
this occasion, Anny Mariar took a book-mark to Mr.
Scrantum, with a thing~on it that looked like a chop-
pin' -knife, and a mess 0' French nonsense below it.
But the greatest part oLtb~performance was the semi-
nary gals and their donation. Ther was twenty-five
on 'em, and what do you suppose they fetcht? Why,
the hull kit and cargo on '~m had conspired together
and made a rag-baby for little Adeline Sorantum, and
rigged it up in gauze and tinsel, and they all come
together and brought that. Miss Pinchem, their
teacher, wasn't there. She was sick o' something . I
guess if she had a come, she 'd a kept 'em a little
straighter. Land o' liberty! I never see such an


WIDOW ]3EDOTT PAPERS.
actin' set o' critters in all my born days! They
carried on like all possess. I see some on 'em a
flourishin' round Jeff-~-he 's always ready for a scrape,
you know-and 1[ was feared he 'd .git to carrying' on
with 'em and I wouldn't a had him for any thing, s&amp;
II gin him a caution. "Jeff," says I, "you let them
seminary gaJls alone; they 're a wild set; 't ain't
proper to cut up so in the minister's house," Jeff
promised to keep clear on 'em-he generally does as
I want him tew. Ii '11 say that much for J9fferson, he 's
always been good about minding . But it went hard
with him to dew it~ then ; he was ripe for fun, and
determined to let off the steam some way or other.
So he looks round and he sees Charii~y Grimes stuck
up on the settee 't other side o' the room. Stiff as a
poker and prim as a peapod-you know what a
starched up, affected old critter she is. Jeff Went to
school tew her when he was little, and she snapped
his ears and cuffed him round, so he 's always hated
her like pizen ever since. She 's ben tryin'~this twenty
year to git married and can't make. it out. She 'd
chased after Squire Fuller ever since his wife died.
Squire Fuller got married about a month afore that--
and yer uncle says he verily believes he did it in self:.
defense, jest to get rid o' Gharity~Grimes~she bothered
him to death; he couldn't go out in company but
what she 'd contrive to hook on to him. TIe 's a very
perlite man, the Squire is and he dident want tew be

259

THE DONATION PARTY.

rude to her, but he couldn't bear her, though she tried
hard to make folks think he was her beaux. At last
he got married, quite suddenly, to a young woman in
Ohenang county; and yer uncle says he don't believe
he 'd a done it, if it hadent a ben td get rido' Charity
Grimes; for his wife had.. ten dead five year, and. he
seemed to be uncommon contented for a widdiwer.
But I was gwine to tell you what Jeff done. He see
Charity a sitting' 'there a tryin' to dew the agreeable to
Capped Smalley (his wife hadent been dead long-.
by the way, sthey 'd make a good. match, wouldent
they?) Well, Jeff says to me, says he-" Mother,
may I go stir up Charity Grimes ?" "I don't know
what you mean by stirring' on her up," says I. "0,"
says he, "111 jest want to condole with her a little on
the loss o' Squire Fuller." "No," says I, "you
needent dew no such thing; 't would be very nn*
proper, indeed, and. very aggravating , tew.". "Well,"
says he, "may n't I jest go and talk a little Shake*
spare tew her? (Jeff 's always quotin' Shakespeare,
you know.) "I 'm afeerd. you 'II say something sassy,"
says I. "No I won't," says he. "I '11 be all4dIlin'
perlite." "Well go, then," says I. So ~ff he steps,
demure as a deacon. "Good evening , Miss Gri~ues,"
'says he. ~"Good. evening , Mr. Magwire," says she.
"lit seems like old times to see you agin," says he;
and. then he observed to Cappen Smalley-" I used. to
go to school to Miss Grimes when I was young."


280

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

Charity puckered up her mouth and grinned, and says
she. "Yes, you was quite a boy then-~-.and I was a
mere child myself; exceedingly youthful for a teacher."
"Well," says Jeff; says he, "you hain't altered a spek
since-.you hold your own amazingly-you: looked
every bit as old then as you dew now; but how do
you feel about these days ?" "Feels!" says she, picking'
up her~.ears, "I feel as well as common-why should.
ent I?" "Excuse me," says Jeff; "I only axed be-
cause I did n't know but you felt rather nonplussed,
put to 't for business as it were, since Squire Fuller
got married. 'Old feller's ocerpation 's gone' now, I
s'pose, as Shakespeare says." Gracious! how mad
Charity was! She bristled up like a setting' hen, and,
says she-" Jeff Magwire, I don't care a straw for
what Shakespeare nor none o' the rest o' your rowdy
acquaintances says about me, I'm above it; but who-
ever he is, you may tell him he 's an impudent puppy,
for calm' a young lady an old feller-and you 're
another for tellin' on 't." So she got up and flounced
out into the hail. The folks all giggled and seemed
wonderful tickled; but Jefl he looked round as
astonished as he could. be, and says he-" I wonder
what, ails Miss Grimes. I thought for the life o' me
she was a gwine to snap my ears, as she used to when
I was young." I was vexed at Jefl and took him to
task as soon as I got a chance; but he declared

I

THfl D0NA~TION PARTY.

261

~t wasn't "old feller" he said, bu1~ something' else-.how-
ever, it sounded. jest like it, any way.
Just then the door was thrown open~ and we was
invited out to supper. So we went sclueezin' and
crowding' into the settin'-room. Some o' the folks
pushed and jammed as if they were feared they
shouldent git the best chance. Glory Ann Bihins sot
at one end o' the table a pouring' coffee, and Jo Gip-
son's wife at the 't other end a pc~urin' tea; and I tell
ye, 't was as much as ever th~y'cou1d dew to pour it
fast enough. Jeff, he flew round and, helped the
ladies. For my part, I didn't feel like eatin' much-
I was jammed up agin the wall and couldent stir hand
nor foot. So I told Jeff to fetch me a cup o' tea and
nut-cake, and he did; and~ I took 'em and managed to
eat the nut-cake, but somebody. hit my elbow and
made me spill the heft o' the tea; so I stood and held
my empty cup, and looked on to see the performance.
I say for 't if 't wasn't worth seem', I 'm mistaken.
Why, if I was ~ starving' to death, I shovldent be
willing' to act as some 6' them folks did. They pushed,
and elbowed, and pulled, and hauled, and grabbed
like crazy critters. 'T was amusing' to see 'em put
down the vittals-I 'd a gin a sixpence, Nancy to had
you there; 't wo~ild a ben fun for you to look on and.
see the dewins. You 'd a thought the biggest part 6'
the company hadent ha4 nothing' to eat since the last


262   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                    THE DONATION PARTY.   263

donation party, and didn't expect to have nothin'
more till the next one.
The wimmin, as a general thing, took tea, and eat
the cake and pies, and so forth. And the men, they
let into the coffee, and biscuit, and cheese, and cold
meat, and such like. I actily see Deacon Skinner
drink six cups o' coffee, and eat in proportion. And
Dr. Lippincott, my grief! 't was perfectly astonishin'
to me that one mortal body could hold as much as
that man put in-iio wonder he 's so fat-they say he
gits the heft of his livin' away from home-contrives
to git to one patient's house jest as dinner 's ready,
and to another's jest at tea time, and so eats with 'em.
And I wish you 'd a seen the Widder Grimes. Gram-
many! how the critter did stuff! I took partickler
notice of her, and I see she had an awful great work.
bag on her arm, and every little while she 'd contrive
to tuck a piece into 't when she thought nobody wasn't
a looking . As soon as I got a chance, I hunched Jeff;
and says .1-" For pitty 'a sake, Jefi do observe the
~Widder 'Grimes." So Jeff; ]~e watched her a spell.
"By George !" says he, "if tha~ ain't rich !" I tell
ye, 't was fun for Jeff. Bimeby.-after she 'd got her
bag purty well filled, s~ys Jeff to me, says he-." Xow,
another, may I stir her up a little ?" "I don't care,"
says I. So he reached forward' and hollered across the
table tew her, loud enough for every body to hear-
"Miss Grimes, may I come to your party?" "My

262'

268

party ?" says she; "What do you mean ?" "Why,"
says Jeff, says he, "1 reckoned from the size o' your
bag, and the quantity o' provisions you was a layin'
in, that you was a calculation , to make a party, and I
thought Ii 'd like to come." Every body looked at
Miss Grimes; and, I ~tell ye, she looked as if she 'd
like to crawl into some knot-hole----and I don't know
but what she did, for she made her disappearance
amazing' soon after. And, then, them seminary gals-
gracious! how they did eat! I s'pose they was half-
starved at Miss Pinchem's. Afore long the table was
purty well cleared, and Miss Scrantum had to go to
the buttery and bring on all 't was left. I guess every
thing in the house that could be eat, without stopping'
to cook it, was made way with that night. When
the seminary gals had eat all they wanted, they
amused themselves a throwing' hunks o' cheese and
buttered biscuit at the young men. After most o' the
other eatables had been disposed of; Dave Runyon,
great gump! went into the buttery and brought out
the box o' raisins that was to go toward Cappen Smal-
ley's pew-rent, and handed 'em round. Every body
grabbed, especially the seminary gals, and children,
till ther wasn't one left in the box. When supper wa~
about finished, Jane Elizy. Fustick (she 's always a
tryin' to dew something' cunning) , she went into th&amp;
store-room and got a chain o' sausages, that old Miss
Crocker brought, and come along slily and throw'd


I

264

WIDOW BEX~OTT PAPERS.

it round Liph Peabody' s shoulders. Liph, lie was a
standing' by the tea-board a drinking' a cup o' coffee.
When he felt the sassages come flopping' round his
neck, he was skirt, and whisked round suddenly and
hit the tea-board, and knocked it off onto the floor,
and smash went every thing on it!' What made, it
more aggravating' was, ther was a dozen chany cups
and sarcers on it that Miss Scrantum had fetelit out
after the folks come out to supper. They was some
that she sot a great deal by; her mother giv 'em tew
her, and her mother was dead. She didn't bring 'em
on at first, for fear they 'd git broke. She sot on all
her common crockery, and borrerd a good deal at
Smalley's store, calcul&amp;tin' if any on 't was broke to
pay for 't. But when she see so many folks come
crowding' out, she was afeard ther wouldent be cups
enough, so she fetcht out her mother's chany cups and
sot 'em on the tea-board. But Glory Ann got along
without usia' 'em, and there they sot, and when the
tea.board fell, they fell tew, and every one on. 'em
was broke or cracked. Gracious! how Miss Scranttim
looked when she see her precious chany all to pieces.
She dident say a word, but her lips quivered, and she
trembled all over. But she seemed to overcome it in
a minnit, and went away and brought a basket and
begun to pick up the pieces, and Jeff and I took hold
and helped her. A good many o' the company had
gone back into the parlor; but ther was enough lefl

THE DONATION PARt~Y.

265

to track the sausage round, and, my goodness! what
work they made with 'em! While 'we was a picking'
up the ,all of a sudden ther was'a terrible hul-
lerballoo in tii~ parlor-Jeff and me rushed in to see
what was the matter and gracious grandfather! what
do you s'pose it was? Why one 0' them pesky sem-
inary gals had throw'd a hunk o' cheese and hit Miss
Scrantum's parlor lamp that was a setting' on the table,
and knocked it over and broke it all to finders. But
that wa'n't the wost on 't--where it tumbled over it
fell right onto that plum-colored satin bunnit, and the
ile run all over it in a minnit. More any body could
ketch the bunnit, one side on 't, ribbon and all, was
completely ruined Such a sight as 't was, you never
sot your tew looI ~ eyes on [ All the ile that didn't
go onto the bunnit was soaked up in the paper that
Jeff took, that was a lyin' right aside on 't, and the
biggest part o' that was spilled tew. My grief! how I
did feel when I see that beautiful bunnit in such a
condition I And poor Miss Scrantum turned . pale as
death, and Susan cried like every thing. I axed Sam
Lippincott (the doctor's red-headed boy) who 't was
that throwed the cheese-he pointed out the gal, and I
goes up to her, and, says I-" You good-foru'nothin'
little huzzy hain't you no better manners than to be a
throwing' cheese at oilier folkses lamps in that way ?"
She was a real sa~sy little thing, and' dideut caje a
straw for what she 'd done. She looked up and
I ~

4

41

I
11


266 -

~L'HE DONATI0~ PARTY.          267

WIDOWBEDOTT PAPE1~S.

grinned as imperdent as could be, and says she-." Ex-
cuse me, marm-I had n't the mast remote idee o'
hitting' the lamp. I meant to aim at Sam Lippincott's
head, and mistook the lamp for it. I 'in' sure you
can't blame me for makin sich a ncttrcd mistake." Did
you ever! I was a good mind to hit her a cuff aside
o' the head; but I didn't. I[ told Miss Pinchem on
though, the next day-and she punished the huzzy
by keeping' her on bread and water a week. Jeff said
was a very equinomical kind o' punishment. Well,
the party broke up purt*y soon after this scrape, and
Jeff and me went hum. Jeff. went off to bed. Yer
uncle was out; dear me! how I did dread meeting'
him! Afore long he come in. "Well," says he,
"how did the party go off?" "0, well enough;" says
I; "but I 'in tired and sleepy, and we won't talk
about it to-night." The fact is, I felt tew mean to tell
him the truth-~-~but in the morning , when Jeff come
down, he let it all out. ~y grief! how yer uncle did
crow over me. "Did n't I tell ye so ?" sa~ys 'he;
"don't ye wish you had n't a went ?" "Yes," says I,
"if it 's any ,satisfaction tew ye to know it-I dew
wish so." "I know'd ye .would," says he. I verily
believe he was glad the bunnit got spilled.
The nest morning , as soon as J got my chores done
up, I went over to Mr. Scrantum's to see how they
come on, and help 'em regulate a little. Murder-alive!
such a 8i~ht as that house was, from one end to t' other,

I

I never sot my tew looking' eyes on! The carpets
was all greased uj~ with butter, and cheese, and sassa~
ges. And then the lamp ile had done more mischief
than we know'd on the night afore. It had run off
the table and made a cruel great spot on the best, car-
pet; and I found Miss Scrantum a tryin' to wash it
out. I sot tew and helped her-but 't want no use-
't wouldent come out. Susan, she was a setting' on a~
little stool a scourin' teaspoons, and cryin' as if her
heart would break. "What 's the matter, ~dear?"
says I-but the poor child couldn't answer me. So
her mother' said she was a cryin"' about the bunnit
hem' spilled. "No wonder," says I, "it 's enough to
make any body cry. I s'pose you' can't dew nothing'
with the bunnit, can you?" "0, yes," says Miss
Scrantum, says she; "I 'ye ben looking' at it this morn-
in', and I think I can get enough out of it to make a
bag of. It '11 make a very nice bag-and I shall keep
it as long as I live, for your sake, Miss Maguire." I
looked at the woman with surprise. There she sot
on the floor, a rubbing' away at thak grease spot, and a
talking' as calmly about that six dollar bunnit, as if
it hadent a cost more 'n six cents. I was kind o'
vexed a her for not makin' more fuss about it. I ac-
tilly begun to think she hadent no feeling , and didn't
care for nothing. "And then," says I," to think o'
their breaking' your beautiful chany-'t was shameful
-a present from h'~\n other tow; and you sot so


THE DONATION PARTY.  269

268   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

much by it; and I 'ye heerd ye say 't was the last
thing yer mother ever giv ye." I was a running' on in
that way when I thought I heerd Miss Scrantum sob
-I looked up and she was a cryin' dretfully. She
couldn't hold in no longer when I spoke o' the chany.
I was sorry I said a word about it; but it convinced
me that Miss Scrantum had feelings, deep feelings; but
~he 'd larn't control 'em, poor woman! Well, I
stayed a spell and helped 'em clean up, and then I
went hum. Susan went to the door with me. When
we got outside, I axed her whether ther was many
provisions brought in the night afore. She told me
to come to the store-room and look. So I went into 't
and took a view, and there was tew or three ptinkins,
a couple o' spare ribs (spare enough, tew, I tell ye),
three or four cabbages, a chicken, what was left o'
Deacon Peabody's cheese, and a codfish. "Is that
all ?" says I. "Yes," says Susan, "and half o' the
cheese, and one o' the spare ribs and the* chicken are
to go .for pew-rent--I heerd pa tell ma so; but you
mustent let 'em know I told you about it-for they'd
think it wrong for me to speak of it; you won't tell
'em, wil] you, Miss Maguire ?" "No, darling, " says I,
"I won't let it out." So I went hum-and as I went
along con~idefln' the matter, I come to a unanimous
conclusion in my own mind, that donation parties wa~
a humbug.
Well, the next Sunday Parson Sorantum requested

the male members of his congregation to meet him
the next evening' at the rneetin'-house. Yer uncle
~went to the meeting . I was in a wonderful fidgit to
know what was the object on 't-and quite impatient
for husband to come hum. When he come I observed.
he was uncommonly tickled about something. "What
is the matter? dew tell, for pity's sake," says I.
"Why, the niinister's axed a dismission," says he.
" You don't ~ says I. " Jest so," says he ; and then
he haw.haw'd out alaffin. "What ails ye, man alive ?"
says Ii; "I don't see what ther is to laff at in that; for
my part, I look upon 't as a~great misfortin to Scrabble
Hill, to lose such a minister as Parson Scrantum. I 'm
astonished to see you laff." "Well, you Won't be,"
says he, "when II tell ye about the meeting. " So he
went on and gin me the hull description. He said
that when Mr. Scrantum told 'em he wanted a dismis-
sion, they was wonderlkil surprised-Deacon Skinner
he riz~ and axed the reason. So Mr. Scrantum stated
that he found it possible to1support his family on
( his salary. Deacon Skinner said that was curus-he
thought four hundred dollars was purty well up. Deas
con Peabody said he thought so tew; especially with a
donation party besides. Deacon Fustick, he put in, and
said 't was ruttier a queer time for a minister to com-
plain of his congregation, jest after they 'd gin him a
bee-and he axed Dr. Lippincott what was his opinion.
(Now Dr. Lippineott never had an opinion in all his


271

TUB DOI~ATION PARTY-

270

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

life, on any subject-if he had, he never expressed it
for fear of injuring' his practice; 't ain't even known
what his politics is-he always contrives to be away
on election days.) So he hemmed and hawed, and
said that really he had n't made up his mind-he hoped
Mr. Scrarttum 'preciated his donation party-he hoped
the congregation 'preciated Mr. Scrantum; he wished
-he wished things was n't sittiwated jest as they was
sittiwated; and that was all they got out of him. Old
Parker observed that minister's families, somehow,
took more to' support 'em than any body else. Mr.
Scrantum said that his family was as equinomical as
they could be, but he had a good many children, and
't was purty difficult to dew as he 'd ought tew by 'em
on four hundred dollars a year; axed 'em whether
they thought ary one o' them could dew it. Happen
Smalley, rich old curmudgin, stuck up his head and
said lie guessed he could dew it-any reasonable man
could dew it-especially with the help of a donation
party every year; but he hoped Mr. Scrantum's re-
.quest would ~be granted unanimously for his part, he'd
long ben of opinion they 'd ~ought to have a cheaper
minister, and one that had n't such a snarl o' young
ones. I don't s'pose Parson Scrantum would a said
any thing severe if it hadent a ben for Cappen Smal-
ley's speech. He seemed quite stirred up by it. He
riz up considerable frustrated, and says he~-" I thank
God, that what ever else I lack, He has hen pleased to

give me plenty o' the poor man's blessins-Yea, a
quiver full of them. And it '5 for their sakes, not
my own, that I come here to-night. If I was alone in
,the world, I could and would dew on a' most nothing
~~~though Soripter says the laborer is worthy of his
hire. Brethren, since I come among you, I 'ye done
my best to be a faithful pastor-if I 'ye failed I hope
to be forgiven. At first I had an idee that I should
be able to rub along, on my small salary; and I don't
know, but I might a done it, if it had n't a ben for
one thing." Here he paused. "What was that ?" says
Deacon Peabody. Mr. Scrantum continued-"] 'ye
ben here tew ~rears, and you 'ye had the kindness to
give me tew donation parties. I've stood it so fur,
but I can't stand it no longer; brethren, I feel con-
vinced that one more donat~oTh party would completely
brealc me down. I will now retire and leave the meet-
in' to decide as they see fit." Yer uncle said that for
about five minutes after he went out universal silence
prevailed. The first to speak was Deacon Skinner.
"Strange 1" says he. "Gurus I"~says Deacon Peabody.
~Reepiarkable 1" says Deacon Fustick. "Onaccouflt
able 1" says Gappen Smalley. "Singular circum-
stance 1" says Dr LippinCotta Then yer uncle got up,
and, says he-" Gentlemell, I don't ~ee as any thing 's
to be gained by setting' here and wonderin' all night.
For my part, I think all Parson Scrantum 's said
is true-his request is perfectly reasonable-and I


272   WIDOW DEDOTT PAPERS.

move it be put to vote." So 't was put to vote and
granted.
A few days afterward the minister's folks packed
up and started off for Miss Scrantum's father's, to stay
till they could git another place. Yer uncle gin ~'em
ten dollars when they went. He 'd a ben glad to give
fifty if he 'ci a ben able, They was very thankful
for 't, and the parson gin us his martin' blessing , and I'd
rather have that than all Cappen Smalley's money.
We all felt bad enough when we said good.by. Miss
Scrantum cried hard-she diclent try to conceal her
feelings then. Susan cried tew, and so did I-~---and we
had a general time kissin' all round; as true as I live,
Jeff, he kissed Susan tew-4ut don't you teaze him
about it; I was glad to see him dew ~though Susan
did blush awfully. They made us promise to come
and 'see 'em if ever they got another sittiwation.
We 'ye heerd lately that the parson had got a call to
Bangtown. I don't kiiow nothing' about the village,
but I hope to gracious it 's a place where donation par~.
ties is a thing unknown.

272

XXIV.
're a gwine to have a Sewin' Society at
Scrabble Hill. Miss Birsley, lawyer~ Birsley's
wife, was the first one that proposed it. She hain't
lived l~ere but about a year, and she 's always ben
used to such societies where she come from, so she
felt as if she 'ci like to have one here. Miss Birsley's
jest the woman to take hold. o' any such thing. She's
a wonderful active little body, and a real gQod woman
tew~ But, above all, she 's got a way o' sayin' jest
what she pleases to every body without even givin' any
offense. I 'ye often wondered how it was that Miss
Birsley could speak her mind so freely and never
make no enemies by it. Why, if I should venter to
talk half so plain as she does I should be universally
K hated. But she comes right out with every thing
she thinks, and yet she 's more poplar than any
other woman in the place. I guess it must be because
folks has found out that she never says no wuss~
about 'em, to their backs than she says to their faces.
12*


9

274

WIDOW BEDOTT ?APERS.~

Well, she come into our house one day last week (she
and I 's very good friends); she come in and axed me
how I 'd like to jine a SeWin' Society for benevolent
purposes? I told her that not known' I couldent
say, for I hadent never belonged to none. So she
went into an explanation; and after I understood the
natur of 'em I liked the idee, and said I 'ci go in for
it. So she wanted me to go round with her and talk
it up to the folks and as I didn't see no reason why
I shouldent, I put on my things and off we started.
The first place we went to was the minister's-we
thought we 'd like to see what Miss Tuttle thought
about it afore we spoke to any body else.. Well, Miss
Tuttle said she approved o' sowirt' societies-she
thought they was quite useful when they was properly
conducted. She didn't know how the plan would
work here-at anyrateit was well enough to try,
and she 'ci be glad to help us all she was able to.
Next we welit to Deacon Skinner's. The Widder
Grimes and Charity was there spending' the day, so we
discussed the pint with 'em all. Miss Skinner and
the gals seemed quite took with the idee; but Charity
and her mother rather hesitated at first, but after
they 'd axed forty questions, and i~re 'd told 'em all
about it, and they 'ci satisfied themselves that they
could git along without givin' any thing more than
their time for an hour or tew a week, and git their
tea to boot, they agreed to jine. So Miss Birsley took

CONTEMPLATED SEWING. SOCIETY. 275
down their, names. We didn't conclude what we
should dew ~ith the avails o' our labor-thought
we 'ci discuss that matter at the f1~t meeting , and Miss
Birsley said she 'd have 'em meet to her house the
next week a Wensday.
When we come away from there, I says, says I,
"We must n't forget to go to see Liddy Ann Buffi."
"0 yes," says Miss Birsley, "the old maid that keeps
the milliner's shop." Now I hadent the least idee
she 'd jine, but I know 'ci she never 'ci forgive us if we
didn't call on her. She 's a curiis critter-consates
that some folks feels above her, and it makes her won-
derful onconifortable. She 's always on a look out for
slights and - insults, and. 0' course she thinks she gits
plenty on 'em. She hates Deacon Fustick's wife like
pizen, on account o' some remarks she heerd o' Miss
13'ustick's inakin' about the os~ridge feaiAaers she wore
on her bunnit winter afore last. Miss Fustick said
afbre old Miss Orocker, that she thought Liddy Ann
Buill was tew old to wear plumes. Old mother
Crocker went straight and told Liddy Ann on't, and
she was hopping' maci about it. She went round
talking' about Miss Fustick at a terrible . Of
course, Miss Fustick talked back agin, and it led to
an awful quarrel that ain't made up yet. That bunnit
was a curiosity though. Blue velvet ~ith a couple o'
great long yeller feathers tipped with pink on' t, and
red cowers in U~e inside. "I know she won't jine,"

I


0

276

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.
I

says I; "but we may as well call, for she '11 be awful
mad if we don't." £~ ~ guess I can manage her," says
Miss Birsley. "I know she thinks I feel above her,
but I 'II see ef I can't convince her she~~ mistaken."
So in we goes-Liddy Ann was a sewin' a straw
bunnit. She 's generally pretty perlite to me-I s'pose
she thinks I ain't proud-but when she see me long
o M'iss Birsley, she thought I 'd naturally feel rather
lifted up (bein' as Miss Birsley belongs to the upper
crust), and so she 'd treat me accordingly. She looked
up when we come in, and gin us a wonderful stiff
bow-never laid by her sewin'-dident even ax us to
sit down-but there she sot, head up, nose in the air
(she 's got a singular way o' turning' up her nose at
folks), with ~a real I 'm.as.good.as.you.be look on her
face, and sewed away as if her life depended on 't. I
felt rather aukerd, but Miss Birsley dident seem to.
She looked down into the show-box that sot on the
counter, and says she, "What a beautiful assortment
o' ribbin&amp;-you 'ye jes1~ got 'em up, hain't you, Miss
Buill ?" *" I have," says Liddy Ann. "That green.
and white plaid one 's a beauty," says Miss Birsley~
"Won't you please to let me look at it ?" "Can't
you lift the kiver and take it out herself?" says Liddy
Aim, says slae. "0 yes, to be sure," says' Miss
3irsley..-.." I didn't know as I .~might." So shetook
it out and admired it wonderfully. I' What a firm
stout ribbon it i~ tew?" s~y~ sbe~." Wk~y, Miss ~ufl],

CONTEMPLATED 5EWI1~~G SOCI]~TY. 277
you make better selectionS than the merchants dew."
"When Ibuy ribbing I buy ribbins, and not shavin's,"
says Liddy Ann. "So I see," says Miss Birsley.
"I 'II take three yards on 't, if y~u please." I won-
dered whether the critter 'd condescend to git up and
wait on her-but she couldn't help it-so she riz with
a great deal o' dignity and measured it off. Miss
Birsley paid for 't; and then she happened to notice a
straw bunnit that laid on the shelf-'t was one that
Liddy Ann had been dewin' over for Loanthy Petti-
bone-" how white this bunnit is 1" says she-" I
don't see how you can make old straw look so nice."
"When I bleech hats I bleech 'em," says Liddy Ann;
"I don't tan 'em." "So I perceive says Miss Birsley,
says she-" but I declare I 'd a' most forgot my errand
-we 're a tryin' to raise a Sewin' Society, Miss Bull,
and we called to see whether you wouldn't jine ?"
"Me 1" says Liddy Ann, looking' a leetle grain
pleasanter 'n she did afore~-" well, I don't know-
I 'm fearful you won't succeed in ~jer undertaken'."
"Why not?" saysL 1. "0," says she, "society here
ain't united as it ought to be.-~.indiwiddiWal5 don't
pull together at all." "Well, then," says Miss Birsley,
"~rnabby a Sewin' Society would be the means
makin' 'em more united-it promotes goo&amp; feeling' to
meet together and work for some benevolent objict-
makes folks take an interest in one another, 'you
know." "0, but 't wouldn't be the ease here," says

I


..278   WIDOW 13EDO~TT ?APERS.

* Liddy Ann; "there 's tew much rastocratical feeling
~-sonae o' the members would carry their heads so
high, and think themselves so much better 'n some
others; and them others would know they was jest as
good as the rest-for my part, shouldn't want to put
myself in the way o' bein' pu wn and stompt on
afterward by Deacon Fustick's wife and such." Miss
Birsley, she raised her hands and eyes, and says she,
(C The land alive !-----well, II declare, if I ain't beat now
to hear you go on at such a rate, Miss Buill! You
look well a talking' about aristocracy when you 'ye got
more on 't than anybody else ~in the village. Why, I
always thought you was very proud and haughty;
and I guess it 's the general impression that you feel
above your neighbors.. I was half feared to come in
here to-day, you 'ye always been s~ scornful toward
me; but now I am here, I feel as if I must speak
plainly-.and I '11 tell you what, if you raly want
society to be united, you must, be the first to se~ the
example. You must lay aside some o' yer pride, and
consent to associate with yer neighbors on ecjuil tirms."
(Liddy Ann's nose come down a peg, and she raly
looked qujte gratified. Thinks me, these ere folks
that 's forever a blazing' away about aristocracy, are
always wilhin' enough to have the name o' bein' aristo-
crats themselves, and would be so actilly if they had
a chance). Miss Birsley went on-" Now, if you 're
singer, iii what you say, do, for pit~r's sake, show it

oo~TTflMPLAT]~D SBWI~ SOGIBTY. 279
by comm' to the Sewin' Society. We expect all the
other girls'11 come-the Skinners have agreed to, and.
we intend to call on the rest, and no doubt they '11
jine." Liddy Ann's nose come down another peg to.
hear herself classed. with the girls. She looked eny
most good.natered "Well, I'll see about it," says
she-" but why don't you take some cheers and set
down?" "Becau~e you hadn't invited us tew," says
Miss Birsley. "Dear me," says Liddy Ann, "how
forgetful IL be 1" "INo matter," says Miss ]3ixsley,
"we can't ~stay to set down now-but you will jine us,
~ofl't you? we depend a'great deal on your taste, and
the other girls all seem to give up to you in that re~
spect." Liddy Ann fairly dropt her nose to a level
with other follkses, and actilly smiled~ and says she-
"Well, takin' all things into consideration, IL rather
guess I wifl jine." So Miss Birsley took down her
name, and told her not to fail to attend the first
meeting' at her house next Wensday. She promised
she 'd come; and. then she went to the door with us
mighty @acious, and hoped we 'd call on her agin.
After we 'd. got on a piece, says I," Well I dew say
for 't, I never was more beat in all my born days than
I WaS to see you git rQund. that cross-grained old.
critter as you did! II didn't know afore that you ever
used any soft soar, but I 'in sure you. daubed it onto
Liddy Ann ~right and left; 't was the best way after
a31 though, for if you 'd a took her to task about b.iu'

hI!i I

'I


280   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

jealous and suspicious, she 'd a ben tearing' ~mad, and
like enough showed us the door, and then went round
and jawed about us afterward." "Jest so," says Miss
Birsley, "the' only way to deal with such folks is to
try to make them satisfied with themselves; make 'em
think you look upon 'em as persons o' some conse-
quence, and they '11 dew any thing you want 'em tew;
and then, tew, there 's a satisfaction in it, 'because it
makes 'em feel so much more comfortable and good.
natered."
The next place we went to was Dr. Lippincott's.
Miss Lippincott was pleased with the idee of a Sewin'
Society, and said she 'd jine. A.uny Mariar sot there
a playing' on the pia~ner, and we axed her if she
wou'ldent take hold and help us? "Dear me, no !"
says she; "I can't bear to sew, and, besides, II don't
understand it. I never had to sew any." " flow old
are you?" says Miss Birsley. "Eighteen," says Anny
Mariar,, "The land alive'!" says Miss )3irsley, "eight-
een year old and don't know how to sew !-and you
can set there and tell on 'V without blushing ! Why
yv~hat 's yer ma ben thinking' about all this time to neg..
*lect yer eddication so? If declare, I must tell Dick o'
that; I shan't allow him to git interested in a young
lady that don't know how to' sew ".-{Dick was her
nephew; he was a studying' law with Mr. Birsley, and
was quite attentive to A.nny M~riar.) "Well," she
went on, "it 's high time you lariat, and if you ~fl come
9

280

CONTEMPLATED SEWING SOCIETY. 281
to the Sewin' Society, IL '11 engage to teach you."
Miss Birsley said all this i,~ a pleasant, good..natered.
way, but Miss Lippincott felt it, and so did Anny Ma-
riar. IL guess she begun to suspect that, after all,
't wasn't so wonderful lady-like not to know how to
sew. She promised she 'd attend the meeting' next
week. "That 's good," says Miss Birsley; "but don't
for pity's sake, wear all them petticoats, for I don't
think ther 'II bedroom for 'em if the meeting's large."
When we come from there, we started for Deacon
Fustick's and while we was a crossing' the road we ob~
served Cappen Smalley a standing ' in his store door.
"There 's the happen," says Miss Birsley, "now we '11
go in and iTnake him give us something to begin with.".*
"Gracious sakes 1" says I, "I \ope you don't expect
to squeeze any thing out o' him ?" "To be sure I
dew," says she. "Well, you '11 find herself mistaken,"
saysJ; "for he never gives nothing to no objict-al-
ways takes it out in talking. " "You see 'f I don't
make him hand over," says she. When the happen
see us a comm' he went in so 's to be ready to wait on
us. "Cappen,' says Miss Birsley, "we hadn't come
to trade to-day; we 'ye come dn bizness. We ladi~
are thinking' o' starting' a Sewin' Society for benevolent
objicts, and it 's quite important to git the opinion o
the leading' mei~ o' the place afore we begin. What do
you think o' the plan, happen ?" "A capital plan,
says he, "a1 most excellent idee. I 'ye long been of

qi
*1

I

I

1


282    WIDOW BED OTT PAPERS.

opinion that something' o' the kind was needed here-.
it 's a great 'satisfaction to be laboring' for the good of
our feller-critters. To what partickler purpose do
yqu intend to devote the avails o' yer labor ?" "Well,"
says she, "we hadn't decided yet; we shall wait till
we git started, and then consider the niatter-ther 's
enough ways o' dewin' good with money, you know."
"Exactly," says the happen, says he, "and IL would
suggest the idee o' your expending' yer funds in the
purchase of articles o' clothing' for the poor; ther 's a
great number in destitute circumstences in this place,
and it strikes me it would be a great satisfaction to the
ladies to furnish 'em with comfortable apparril."
"That is a good idee," says Miss Birsley-" don't you
think so, Miss Maguire" "Yes," says IL. "I 'm glad
it strikes, you favorably," says the capped, says he;
"and come to think, IL have 'on hand a variety o' ma-
terials that would be suitable'to make garments for the
poor; and if you see fit to purchase, 1 '11 let you have
'em at first cost, seem' it 's for a benevolent object. ILn
such cases it 's always a satisfaction to me to sell low."
"You 're very kind," says Miss Birsley, "we '11 mention
it at the meeting ; but we 'ye got to have some finds to
begin with. You can give us something, IL s'pose ?"
"Well, raly," says the happen, says he, rubbin' his
hands together, "I 'm ~very sorry, very, indeed, that
it 's happened so. It 's very inconvenient jest now--
in fact, its possible for me to give any thing at this

I

CONTEMPLATED SEWING SOCIETY. 288
time. I have a large remittance to make very soon to
New York, and, of course IL can't spare a penny. We
men 0' bigness that have large outstanding' debts are
often more put to 't for ready money than a day-labor-
er-it 's very vexatious, very, indeed." "Yes," says
Miss Birsley, "it must be so-it must be very tryin'
to you to be scant o' money when you have a call to
7~
contribbit, it 's such a satisfaction to you to give -
(here she gin me a hunch)-" but that don't make no
difference to us, we 'd jest as live take something out
o' the store-for instance, some o' this ere cotton cloth
-(and she stept up to a pile o' shirtin' that laid on the
counter)-" you 'd. esteem it a privilege to give us a
piece o' this." "But-but," says the happen, "I
raly don't feel." "Now, happen,". says Miss Birsley,
"you needent apologize a word, this is very nice cloth
and it'll be jest as good to us as money-it '11 make first
rate shirts, and we can always find ready market for
good shirts." "But," says he, "consider a minnit-a
piece o' slairtin' is-" "0 now, don't talk so, happen,"
says she; "a piece o' shirtin 's jest exactly as good as
any thing else, and we '4 jest as live have it as the
money; for if we had the money we should have to
spend it to buy materials to ~begin on. We know
't would be more of a satisfacdon to you to give us
five dollars if 't was convenient; but seem" it ain't,
we 're perfectly wihin' to take this-so jest please to
dew it up ;" so she picked out one o' th6~best pieces

0


WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

and tumbled it down toward him. The happen he
looked awful womblecrbpt-I declare, I raly pitied the
poor man-.he hesitated a minnit, and then, caii you
believe it? he actilly took the cloth and done it up I.--
but I tell ye, I never see such an uncomfortable look-
in countenance as his 'n while he was a dewin' on 't.
"Now," says Miss Birsley, "I '11 trouble you to write
on 't-A Thirty-one yards shirtin' presented to the La-
dies' ~ewin' Society by Captain' Smalley."' So he
took a pen and writ it, and I '11 be hanged if he did-
ent look as if he was .a signing' his own death warrant.
"Much obleeged to ye," says Miss Birsley, and she
took up the cloth and we come off. Wben we got to
the door, she turned round, and says she, "Mabby it
will be a satisfaction to ye, happen, to buy some o' the
shirts after we git 'em made ?" The happen he gin a
ghastly grin, and a peculiar kind of a bow as much as
to say-.-" You see 'f you ketch me agin," and so we
bid him good-afternoon, and left him to his medita-
tions. "Well," says I, "I '11 give it up now !-if I
hident a seen it with my own eyes, I never 'd a be-
lieved it, never! How astonished every body '11 be
when they hear on 't ?" "Yes," says Miss Birsley;
"but we mustent let on how we got it out of him-.
't ain't right to tell o' such things-we must let folks
think he gin it of his own accord." "Jest so," says I;
but, thinks me, its tew good to keep, and I must tell
Mr. Godey on 't, though~ I won't mention it to any body

284

K'

CONTEMPLATED SEWING SOCIETY. 285
else. Well, it was a pretty heavy load to carry, and
Miss Birsley proposed we should take it into her hus-
band's office and leave it. The office was nigh by, so
we goes in. Miss Birsley huv it down, and says she
to her nephew, "There, Dick, I wan't you to bring
that up when you come home to-night." Squire Birs-
ley looked at it and read the writing , and says he,
"You don't mean to say that Cappen Smalley gin you
this ?" "To be sure he did," says she; "don't you
believe his own words ?" "Pretty cunnin'in~ you,"
says the squire, "to git it in writing , for fear he 'd be
down on yer society with a bill." "0 law 1" says she,
"jest as if I done it for that." Dick Wilson he look-
ed up kind o' knownn, and says he, "It takes you to
come it, Aunt Lucy."
Next we went to Deacon Fustick's. Miss Fustick
and Jane E~y had gone to Deacon Peabody's to tea,
so we went i~und there, and had a chance to see 'em
all at once. Miss Peabody 's entirely governed by
Miss Fustick in every thing, so she waited to see what
Miss Fustick would say afore she expr~sed her opin-
ion about theSewin' Society; and Miss Fustick don't
want to go into any thing without she can be head
man, and as she was n't sure how she 'd stand in the
Sewin' Society, she hesitated a spell. At last she said
she had her doubts about it-.dident like to undertake
a thing till she wa~ convinced 't would promote the
interests o' religion'-(Miss Fustick 's awful pious ac-

I

II
I
I:
jl
ii

I
4
p
ii
I
i


286   WIDOW BEDOTT PAFE~S.

cordin' to her idees o' 'piety.) Of course, Miss Pea-
body had her doubts tew, about jinin' the society.
Miss Birsley and me, we both said tew 'em that we 'd
no doubt but what the Sewin' Society would be the
nicans o' dewin' a great deal o' good if 't was properly
conducted. 'Well, Miss Fustick said she was onsartin'
about hem' able to attend-her time was pretty much
took i~p-she was Superintendent o' the Maternal. So-
ciety, President o' the Daughters o' Temperance, and
Corresponding' Secretary to the Friends o' Humanity,
and she was afeard she couldn't consistently do much
for the Sewin' Society; but she 'd try to attend occa-
sionally-.at least she 'd make it a subject o' prayer,
and try to find out what was duty in the case. Of
course, Miss Peabody said she 'd try to attend tew.-.
and then we axed ther daughters whether they 'd come?
Sophrony Peabody inquired whether the gentlemen
was a gwine to attend? We said that hadent been~
thought of yet. And Jane Elizy Fustick said she
hoped in all favor they wouldent-if they did, she
wouldent any how-she couldn't boar to ~have the fel-
lers sticking' round. "Why can't you speak the
truth," says Miss Birsley, "and say you won't come*
without they do ?" At last they both said they 'd jine.
Next, we went into Jo Gipson's, and there we found
Tom Hodges' wife a visiting' with her young one. Of
all the children I ever see, that boy 's the disagreea-
blest; but his mother don't think so. She makes a

CONTEMPLATED SEWING SOCIETY. 287
natural fool of him-always takes him every where
with her, and it takes every body in the house to at-
tend to him. tie was ~ setting' on his mother's lap eat.
in' an awful great hunk o' cake, makin' a dretfal growl-
in' noise over it that eny most prevented our hearing'
one another talk. After we 'd discussed the Sewin'
Society with the ladies, and. they 'd both said they 'd
jine, Miss Birsley says to the young one, "Oome here
and see me, bub." "Me won't I" says he. "He 'd
rather stay by his mommy, hadent he, darling' ?" says
Miss lodge. "Stay there, then, if you want to, little
cross-patch," says Miss Birsley. I felt rather sorry to
hear her speak out so, so I says, "What 's yer name,
ducky ?" "Nun o' 00 bidness 1" says he. "0 now,;'
says his mother, "can't he be a little man and tell the -
lady his name ?" "Me won't I" says he, and he hit
his mother a slap in the face. "Now that ain't prit-
ty," says she; "mommy 'II cry," so she put her hands
up to her face and pretended to cry. After a spell,
says she, "Now tell the lady his name nice and pretty,
and then mommy 'II stop cryin'." But inside o' tellin'
his name, he begun to baw'l for more cake. "Wait a
minnit, Miss Gipson," says Miss lodge, "I want th~
ladies to hear him tell his name, he says it so sweet
and eunnin'. Now tell the lady his name, and then
he shall have more cake." "Yando Puffle Hogs,"
says the little torment. "That 's a darling, " says his
mother-." now, Miss Gipson may git him ~ great big

I.


I,            /

288

WIDOW flEDOTT PA1'ERs.

piece o' cake." "What did he say his name was ?"
says Miss Birsley. "Orlando Percival Jiodge," says
his mother. "The land alive !" says Miss Birsley, "I
declare I don't blame the young one for not wanting'
to tell his name." "What! don't you like it ?" says
Miss lodge. "No," says Miss Birsley; "I don't ad.
mire double names any way, especially such awful
jaw-breakers as that." "Why how you talk," says
Miss lodge, "for my part, I think boys names always
ought ~to be double. I told his pa I wanted to give
him a name that would sound well in Congress one o'
these days, and I think 'Orlando P. lodge' will."
"The land alive I" says Miss Birsley, "I s'pose you
think that Henry Clay 'd be a much greater man if
his name was Henry P. Clay. And George Washing.
ton, tew, no doubt he 'ci a made a great deal more
noise in the world if his name had a ben George P.
Washington. What a pity 't wa'n't-.but you needent
be calculation' on seem' your boy a member o' Congress
.-4i5 name '11 be the death of him afore he comes to
matority. Did you ever consider that 't was 0. P.
H?" "Gracious !" says Miss lodge, "it never struck
me afore." "Miss Birsley," says I, "it 's time for us
to go." "So 't is," says she. "Well, ladies, we shall
expect to see you at the ineetin' next Wensday; but,
Miss lodge, don't you bring 0. P. IL, for I shan't
have time to stu~ him."
Well, from there, we went over to Professor Stub.
4

CON'TEMPIjATED SEWING SOCIETY. 289
bleses to present the case to ,Miss Stubbles and Jeru~
shy. Miss Stubbles is quite a clever woman, and a
good member o' society as fur as she dares to be; but
she 's ciretfully under the Professor's thumb, and he 's
a wonderful curus man; he 's got some o' the oddest
notions in his head that ever you heerd of-thinks
that property ought ~o be ecjuilly divided-calls all
rich men oppressors, and all the laboiin' class abused
and deprived o' their right~-holds that wen and wim-
mm ought to be eddicatedjest alike. He 's always a
whalin' away about the dignity o' labor-has jest ben
deliverin' a course o' letters on the subject, and he calls
all men that don't take hold and dew kitchen work,
domestic tyrants; but he has such a blind, twistical
way o' talking , that ~a body can't tell what he means
half the time-husband says he don't know himself
what he 's a driving' at.' When we got there, Miss
Stumbles was in the side yard a splitting' 'wood; she
come round and went in with us. They hadn't no
fire only in the kitchen, so she took us in there; The
professor was a churnin'-I thought I should go off
when I see him. He 's a great, tall, lank, ungainly
man, and the he stood with ~ check apron on, a.
churnin' away like fury-ho did look like old Time.
Their overgrown gawkey son, Natha~n, was a setting'
the tea~table. There 's something' wonderful quizzical
about the boy's looks. His clus is a great deal tow
small for him, and he looks as if he was jest a gwine
13

I

~1


290   WIDQW BEDOTT PAPER$.

to bust1 out of 'em like a chicken out o' the shell. He
looked wonderful sober a setting' th~ table; but they
say he 's up to all sorts o' tricks away from home.
We inquired for Jerushy, and they said she 'd gone
to milk. Well, we told our bizness, and axed Miss
Stumbles if she 'd jine the society? She looked at the
Professor to see hQw he took it afore she answered us
-so I says, says I, "What do you think o' the plan,
Professor Stubbles?" The Professor giv three or four
awful hams to elear out his throat, and then says, he,
"Did.I believe that an organization of this descrip-
tion would be a labor-promotin' association, I would
give it my. heart-willing approval." "No dotibt it
will be so,'~ says Miss Birsley. "Ladies," says he, "it
is high time that the, dignity of labor was appreciated
world-wide." (We see he- was in for a speech, so we~
let him go on.) . "It 's high time that the purse-proud
~d .,vice.'bloated aristocracy o' the land ,was compelled
to toil like the hard-handed sons and daughters of
honest poverty ;-it 's high tin~e that the artificial ar-
rangepients of society was, done away, and this sin"
distracted,, folly-bewildered, hag-ridden wozid was
governed by such law~~%he Great Heart of: the uni-
verse .origi~a1ly intended., I~adies,~ the, earth-mission
of mundane souls is twofold; fl#st, to discharge with
self-interest-sacrificing zeal our duty toward down-trod-
den humanity; second, to perform with soul-earnest,
wife-assisting, daughter-helping, labor-]6ving fidelity,

*

here the chiun-dasher Came do~vu with such a vengeance, that the cream
spirted up and spattered all round."                      page 291.

I


*   CON'TEM1~LAT~D SEWING S
such domestic~ services as shall be to
home; and I pronounce that soul w]
knowledge the dignity of household I
dotted, contempt-deserving, heaven-p~
Here the churn-dasher come down 'v~
geance, that the cream spitted up a
round, and some on 't went onto Miss
"The land alive 1" says she, "that w~
how." Miss Stubbles jumped up to c
still; Miss Stubbles," says Miss Birsle2
Lessor's bizness to repair the mischief.
sor, git a wet cloth and wipe off my
grease soaks in." The Professor 14
didn't stir. "Well," says she, "ac
7           you jest advanced, you must own yer~
besotted. wretch. Now, Professor, I
know if it would n't be rather more d
to go out and split wood, than 't is to
do it while you stay in the kitch
Would n't it be quite as dignified to
able-bodied boy to the pasture ' to milk,
Jerushy go? It kind o' seems to me ~
dignified only when it 's done by the
and in the right time and place. It
if it 's the best way for every body to
in the station where Providence ha~
mabby it 's an artificial arrangement bi
as rather a good one." The Professo
J

]
-r
OCIETY 291
I
be performed at
ao refuses to ac~
abor, a pride-be.
provoking churl."
rith such a ven~
nd spattered all
Birsley's shawl.
~s dignified, any
leanit off. "Set
it's the Pro-
Come, Profes-
shawl afore the
ooked mad and
cordin' to what
;elf to be a pride.
A
should like to
ignifled for you
make yer wife
en and churn?
send that great
as 'tis to make
~s if labor wa'n't
right persons,
~eems to me as
'dew ther duty
~ placed 'em~-
it it strikes me
ir looked quite
4
t


292   WIDOW BED0TT PAPERS.

beat, and begun to ham and clear his throat, and I see
he was a preparing' to let off another speech, so I says
to Miss Birsley, "Come, it 's time we was a gwiine."
So we rizi to come away, and Miss Birsley says she,
"Well, Professor Stubbles, I s'pose you '11 be offended
if Ii don't invite you and Nathan to come to the Sewin'
Society and help us, but as my idees respectin' the
dignity o' labor differ from yourn, I think I 'd a leetle
rather h&amp;ve Miss Stubbles and Jerushy come." The
Professor looked real wrath, but dident say nothing,
and~we left him a churning' away for dear life.
Well, the next day we went to the Parkers, and the
Billinses, and the Stillman's, and the Pettibone's, and
all round; but 't would take tew long to go over with
the hull genealogy of all the calls we made. Enough
to say, we found most every body agreeable to the
plan; and when they wasn't in favor on 't, Miss Birs~
ley' argyd 'em into 'V-so she sent a notice to Parson
Tuttle, and yesterday he giv it out in inleetin', recluest.
in' all the ladies o' the congregation to meet next
Wensday afternoon at the house of Squire Birsley,
for the purpose of organizing' a Sewin' Society for be.
nevolent objects.

xxv.
I WISH to gracious you could attend one of our
Sewin' Society meeting's. You never see nothing?
to beat 'em, I '11 be bound for 't. We 'ye had tew now.
At the first one, at Squire Birsley's, ther was twenty-
five present. Miss Birsley had got some 'shirts cut
out o' Caripen Smalley's cloth, and as fast as they
come in she sot 'em to work-at least she gin 'em
some work, but ther was so much talking' to dew ther
was precious little sewin' done. Ther tongues went a
good deal faster 'n ther fingers did, and the worst on
was, they was all a running' at once. Ther was an
everlasting' sight o' talking , but it did seem as if they
wouldent never come to no decision in creation.
'T wasn't expected we should dew much at tjae first
meeting' more 'n to elect the managers, and make up
our minds how often we should meet~-~and I begun
to think wd shouldn't dew even that much, there was
such o' sight o' discussion' and disputing' about every
thing. Some was for meeting' once a week, and some


294     WIDOW ]3EDOTT PAPERS.                                                              295

THE SEWING SOCIETY.

thought 't was altogether too often,, Some was for
staying' to teas and some was opposed to 't. Some
thought 't would be a good plan to stay and work
evenings, and some was of opinion 't would n't pay,
hem' as we 'd have to burn so many candles and lamps.
Ther wasn't nothing said about what object we 'd work
for at the first meetin'-thought we 'd leave that till
next time.
Well, we talked and talked and talked, and the up.
shot on 't was, Miss Birsley was appointed ~prasident-.
Miss Ben Stillman, Miss Dr. Iaippiincott and Miss Dea-
con Fustick, managers-.Polly Mariar Stillman secreta-
ry, and ]I~iddy Ann Buill, tretcsurer. Moreover, we
agreed to meet once a fortnight, at tew o'clock in the
afternoon, stay to tea and work till dark. When we 'd
got through with our bisness, we had tea-quite a
plain tea. Miss Birsley don't approve o' makin'
much fuss for Sewin' Society-.because if ye dew,
ther '11 be some that '11 feel as if they couldn't afford
to have it to their. houses. She didn't give us but
one kind o' cake, but 't was light and good, and so
was the bread; and we had sliced meat and cheese.
Miss Birsley didn't say nothing about it but she hoped
the rest would Loller her example. I made up my
mind I wouk~ any how, whether the rest did or not.
Well the ladies all eat as if they liked it, and they
praised up every thing at a wonderful rate.- They
never laid tooth to such bread in all their lives; the

294

butter was superfine; the cold meat was delicious; and
for the cake it was a mystery to them how Miss firs-
Icy managed to always have such first-rate cake.
Miss Deacon P~abo4y declared she '4 eat such a hearty
supper she was afeard she should be sick. After tea,
Miss Jo Gipson invited us to meet at their house next
time, and then we went hum. While we was in the
bed-room a putting' on our things, I heerd Miss Pea.
body whisper to Miss Stillman and say, "Did you ever
see any thing to beat that tea in al1~.your born days ?
No preserves at all !" "I never did," says Miss Still-
man. "If II can't giv~ 'em a better tea when they
meet to our house, I '11 give up."
Well, at the next meeting' ther was about the same
number present, and we talked up what we '4 dew
with the money. The difficulty was, the members
couldn't agree upon nothin'-.some wanted to work
for this object, and some wanted to work for that.
Miss Skinner and some o'the rest thought we 'd ought
to sew for the missionaries, but most on 'em~ opposed
it, 'cause they wanted to see what become o' the money.
Miss Stubbles thought 't would be a good plan to es-
tablish a school for the coldred sect-I s'pose the Pro-
fessor put her up to 't-but nobody else didn't seem
to be in favor on 't; and Sister Bedott (she attended),
she said sh~ never '4 agree to that, 't would be money
throw'd away, for niggers would be niggers, dew what
ye would to elevate 'em. Miss Fustick (she come in

295


296   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                          THE SWING SOCIETY.

and sot a spell with her things on~-~said she cotddent
stay long, jest dropped in on her way to the Matarnal
Society meeting) , she thought we couldn't dew better'n
to give the ,.~vails of our labor to the "Sons o' Tem-
perance." "Sons o' yer granny," says Liddy Ann
Buillsays she (you know she and Miss Fustick 's a
quarreling. ) When she spoke up so, Miss Fustick
looked awful mad, and got up to go: when she reach-
ed the door, she turned round and says she, "Perhaps
Miss BuilT would rather work for the Old Maids'
Consolation Society' that they talk o' forming. Good
afternoon, ladies I" and off she cut, afore Liddy Ann
had time. to answer. The gals all tittered, and Liddy
Ann lookt wonderful womblescropt: I don't know
but she 'd a cleared~ out if Miss Birsley hadent a
smoothed it ~over in her cunning' way; she laughed,
and says she, "What, Miss Buill, you gal~don't mean
to help the old maids, I hope? I say let 'em t~ke
care o' tliemselvesY Liddy Ann grinned and looked
quite satisfied.
Wefl, they talked and talked and talked, jest as
they did at the first meeting , to no more purpose neither~
Qnly to git more ryleci up than they did then. It
seemed as if every one had got a partickler pint to
carry and was determined the rest should yield to 't.
I tried a number o' times to make a proposition I 'd
thought on, but ther was so many that talked louder
and Iitster 'n what I coufd, that I couldn't for the life

o' me git nobody to listen tew me. At last I went to
Miss Birsley and told her my idee, and axed her what
she thought on 't. She said she liked the notion.
"Well, then, you propose it," says I," for I can't git
'em to listen to me if I try till Doomsday." So she
spoke out, and says she, "Ladies !" but ther was such
a racket nobody didn't hear her. So she tried agin:
"Ladies, I say 1" but still they didn't pay no attention
Then she took the tongs and knock on the stove as
loud as ever she could. "Order I" says she. They
stoppt talking' then, and lookt round to see what she
wanted. "Ladies," says she, "Miss Magwire has pro-
posed an object to work for that strikes me as an ex-
cellent one. She thinks we 'd better raise enough to
repair1he meetin'-house, and for. my part, I think we
couldent dew better: the meetin'-house is in a misera-
ble condition; the plastering's a comm' off in ever so
many places, and the pulpit 's a forlorn old thing,
away up in the air; it 's enough to break a body's neck
to look at the minister, and shakes like an old egg-
shell. Mr. Tuttle says he 's almost afeard to go into
it. Don't you think 't would be a good plan to tear
it down and build another? Now don't all speak at
once. Whenever shall dew nothing in creation if we
don't have some sort o' order. Miss Skinner, what 's
your opinion ?"
Well, Miss Skinner was delighted with the idee,
and so was the. G4meses, and . the Fosters, and the
13*

297

296


298   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                                                 299

298

Peabodys. Miss Peabody said the Baptists and the
Episcopal was all a pintin' at us for letting' our house
o' worship be in such a condition. Miss John Brew.
ster said she 'd long thougJ~t our meetin'-house was a
disgrace to the village; she 'd no doubt but what
't wQuld be an advantage to 'the cause o' religion to
repair it, for the Widder Pettibone told her how 't
if we 'd had a decent meetin'-house she wouldn't a
went off and jined the Episcopals, but she got so
disgusted with the old nasty house and so tired a
stretc]ain.' her neck to see the minister, that she could-
ent stan' it no longer.
"The dear me !" says Charity Grimes, "T want to
know if she gives that as a reason! Why, every body
knows she went there 'cause Camel Dykenian's an
Episcopal."
"Yes," says PQlly Mariar Stiliman, "I guess it 's
gin~rally known what took her there."
"She 's a wonderful uneasy critter," says Miss Pea~
body; "she 's bena Baptist and a Presbyterian, and,
now she 's an Episcopal. I wonder what she '11 be
next."
Well, it 'S cause she 's a wictcter," says Glory Ann
Billins. "I never know'4 a wider yet but what was
as Uneasy as a fish out o' water. I raly believe it 's
natural tew ~
"Jest so," says Liddy Ann Buill; "widders'will be
widders."

"Not if they can help it," says I. I was sorry as
soon as I said it, Sister Bedott lookt so mad. I tell
ye she gin 'me an awful blowin-up when we got hum
-said every body in 'the room thought I meant her,
and she didn't mean to~go to the meeting' no more. I
don't know whether she will or not.
Well, they 'd got hold o' the Widder Pettibone, and
they didn't let her drop right off: if her ears dident
burn that afternoon, I 'm mistaken. Some on 'em got
so engaged talking' about her they stopt sewin' entirely.
Bymeby Miss Birsley got out o' patience, and. knockt
on the stove. "Order I" says she. When they got
still, says she-" When the ladies have got the Wici-
der Pettibone sufficiently done up, I 'd. like to have
'em take hold and dew up them shirts." "Law me,"
says old Aunt Betsy Crocker, "they ain't a dewin' her
up; they 'me a picking' on her tew pieces." Aunt
Betsy ain't no great talker, but when she does speak
she always says something' to the pint. She 's a real
clevqm old. soul, good to every body, dumb critters arid.
all. She was disappointed. when she was young, so she
hadn't neyer got married; lives all alone; nobody in
the house but her and Gm~tff, her old. dog. She thinks
the world o' Gruffi I went in to see her one evening'
last winter. Gruff was asleep on a rug behind the
I,
stove, an~1 ther was a great pan o' vittals settan by
him. I thought 't was something' she "d sot there to
warm, so I says, says I," Ain't you geared Gmuff'll

THE SEWING SOCIETY.

.4

299


I

800

'I'
WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

be pokin' his nose into yer meat ?" "Law me," says
she, "that 's there a purpose for him. II always set
sonaethin' by him when he goes to bed, so he '11 find
it handy if he happens to wake up hungry in the
\night." "My sakes," says I, "I wouldn't take all
that pains for a dog."~ "Law me !" says she, "Gruff
don't know he 's a dog-he thinks he's folks."
"Well, ladies," says Miss Birsley, "if it 's a possi-
ble thing, I 'd like to have it decided whether we shall
repair the meetin'-house or not. I think we 'd better
put it to vote. Them that 's in favor on 'V will please
to signify it by holding' up their right' hand." Well,
all o' the members held up their right hand exce~j3tin'
Miss Ben Stillm~n and Polly Mariar. "Miss Still~
man," says Miss Birsley, "I see that you and Polly
Mariar don't hold up yer hands. Don't you approve
of appropriation' the money for that purpose ?"
p
"Well, I can't say as I disapprove on 't," says Miss
Stiliman, "but Ishould think we 'd better not be in
a hurry about makin' up our minds what we '11 dew
with the' money."
"What 's the use o' waiting' ?" say~ Miss Birsley.
For my part, I think we should go ahead with more
sperrit if we' had an object fixed on to work for." ." I
think so tew," says Miss Stillman; "but, you know,
we 'd ought to be unanimous." "Then why don't you
agree with us ?" says Miss Birsley; "that 's tWo way
to be unanixnous~"

THE SEWING SOCIETY.

801

"I mean," says Miss Stiliman, says she, "that we 'd
ought to wait till ther 's a full meeting' a*'ore we
vote."
"The land alive 1" says Miss Birsley, "II don't
know what you call a full meetiin' if this ain't
one."
"The fact is," says Polly M~riar, stretchin' her
great mouth from ear to ear and. displaying' all her big
teeth.-(Jeff says her mouth looks like an open sepub
cher full o' dead men's bone)-" the fact is," says she,
"mar and me 's of opinion that we hadent ought to
vote till Miss Samson Savage is consulted."
"'Miss Samson Savage ain't a member o' the Society,"
says Miss Birsley, "and she don't go to meeting' once
in six months. I don't know' what we should want to
consult her for, I 'm sure.~~
"But you know," says Miss Stillman, "her means
is such that she 's able to contribbit a gre~t deal to
any object she approves of."
"And we 'd ought to be careful about offending'
her," says Polly Mariar, "for, you know, she with.
draw'd herself from the Baptists because their Sewin'
Society d.ident dew as she wanted to have 'em."
"Did the Baptists break down after it?" says Miss
Birsley. Jest then the door opened, and in marched
Miss SamsQn Savage. But afore I go on, I 'd ought
to tell you something about her. She 's one o' the
big bugs here-that is, she 's got more money than


302     wInow BE-DOTT PAPEB~$.                                 THE SEWING SOCIETY.         303

a' most any bod~ else in tQwn. She was a tailoress
when she was ~gal, and they say she used to make a
dretful sight o' mischief among the folks where slie
sewed. But that was when she lived in Yarmount.
When Mr. Savage~ married her, he was one o' these
ere speculators Wonderful fellers to make money,
them Yarmounters. Husband says they come over the
Green Mountains with a spellin'-book in one hand ~nd
a halter in t' other, and if thcy can't git a ~choo1 to
teach, they can steal a hoss. When they first come
to our place, he was a follerin' the tin-peddlin' bisness;
he used to go rumbling' round in his cart from house
to house, and the rich folks rather turned up their
noses at him, or he consated they did, and it made
him awful wrath; so he determined he 'd be richer 'n
any on 'em, and pay 'em off in their own coin. Old
Smith says he ~s heerd him time and agin make his
boast that he 'd ride over all their heads some day-
dident seem to have no higher eend in view than to
be the richest man in Scrabble Hill. He sot his heart
and spul and bod.y on 't, and knowin' how to turn
every cent to the best advantage, and bein' wonderful
sharp at a bargain, he succeeded; every thing he took
hold of prospered, and without actilly bein' what you
could call dishonest, afore many years every body
allowed he was the richest man in the place. So he
built a great big stun house and furnished it wonder-
ful grand; his wife wouldent have a bit o' furnitewer

I

made here-nothin' would de~ but she must send
away to Philadelphy for 't. And such &amp;rnitewer was
never seen in the town afore! Such elegant sofys and
cheers and curtains, and ever so many curus consarns
that I don't know the name og and I guess she don't
neither. So she sot up for a lady. She was always a
coarse, boisterous, high-tempered critter, and when
her husband grow'd rich, she grow'd pompous and
overbearing . She made up her mind she 'd rule the
roast, no matter what it cost-she 'd be the first in
Scrabble Hill. She know'd she wa'n't a lady by natur
nor by dedication, but she thought mabby other folks
would be fools enough to think she was if she made
a great parade. So she begun by dressing' more, and
givin' bigger parties than any body else. Of course,
them that thinks money ~s the main thing (and ther 's
plenty such here and every where), is ready" to flatter
her and make a fuss over her, and approve of 'all her
'dewin's. If ther 's any body that won't knuckle tew
her, I tell ye they have to take it about east. She
abuses 'em to their faces and slanders 'em to tlieir
backs. Such conduct wouldn't be put up with in
a poor woman; but them that would be for drummin'
~'me out o' town if I should act so, is ready to uphold
Miss Samson Savage, and call it independence and
frankness ~n her. She '~ got so she prides herself on
'it. She says she ain't afeard to 4e11 folks what she
think of 'em-if she don't like any body, they know

b


804   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

it purty soon. Husband says she wouldn't ~think it
no harm to set her neighbor's house a fire if she done
it in the day-time. She shows her independence in
another way sometimes, by rigging' out in' old duds
that would disgrace a washerwoman, and training' round
town, makin' calls and so forth, sometimes in an old
wagin and sometimes afoot. It tickles her wonder-
fully to hear folks whisper as she goes along-" Jest
see Miss Savage I that 'll dew for her, but 't wouldn't'
do for every body."
When she goes out in company, she 'nopolizes the
hull o' the conversation. She 's determined that every
body in the room shall have the benefit of all she has
to say. So she talks up so awful loud that she
drowuds every body else's voic~, and they have to
listen tew her whether or no. I was to a party a spell
ago where she was, and from the minnit she come~ in
-(thank fortin' she never comes any-always keeps
the tea a waiting' for her~-I say, from the minnit she
come till it broke up, she talked without ceesation. It
did seem to me as if I should go distracted. In the
course o' the evening , somebody axed Pardon Petti-
bone's wife (she 't was Katy Carey) to play on the
pinner and sing: she ~s a beautiful player, and I 'm
very fond o' heaxin' her. When she sot down to the
music, thinks me, Miss Savage will hold her tongue
now, I 'm sure. But I was mistaken. She wasn't a
gwine to be put down by a planner, not she, 'so she

804

THE SEWING SOCIETY.              805
jest pitched her voice a peg higher and went on with
her stuff-all about her hired help-what Bets, the
cook, done; how Suke, the chambermaid, managed,
and how Nab, the washerwoman, carried sail. I
couldn't take no sense o' the music at all. Miss Still-
man and Polly Mariar, and a few more, draw'd up
round ~her and swallered all she said, but some o' the
young folks that wanted to hear the .music, lookt as
if they wished Miss Samson Savage was murder.
But it 's plain to be seen with all her pretensions
she feels uneasy and uncomfortable the hull time.
I 'ye noticed that yer codftsh gentility always dew. She
knows she ain't the ginniwine article, and so she tries
to make up for 't in brass and bluster. If any thing.
goes ~on without her bein' head man, she always tries
to put it down. She was gone a journey when the
Sewin' Society was started, and I s'pose she was awful
mad to think we darst to git up such a thing without
consulting' her. Miss Birsley called 'on her when she
got ham, and axed her to jine. But she said she
wouldent-she despised Sewin' Societies, didn't want
nothing' to dew with 'em. Miss Birsley didn't tell no.
body what she said but n~e; she know'd 't would
make some o' the wimmin mad and scare the rest-
but we both know'd 't wouldn't be long afore she 'd
be pokin' h~r nose in among us.
Well, as I said afore, she. came a marching . int@ the
room where we all sot. She 's a great, tall, raw.bon~d


306    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                          THE SEWING SOCIETY.     307

woman, and she steps off like a trainer. She had on
a dirty pink sun-bunnit, and an old ragged blue caliber
open-gowud (what Jeff calls a shelaly) over her dress.
She didn't so much as say "How-de-dew" to nobody,
but streamed right across th~ room and sot down;
then she huv her old sun-bunnit onto the floor, and
draw'd a long breath, and says she-" Well, ZE vow
I 'm tired-ben round .a shopping , and shopping' 's no
small bisness with me. I don't go into a shop and
stan' an hour, and make the clerks haul down all ther
goods, and theu 'buy tew-cents' worth, as some folks
dew"-.-here she lookt round at Miss Grimes and
Charity-" when I trade, I trade to some amount,
and no mistake. I was rather tired afore I left hum
-~-had company to dinner-dident think o'
here when I come out,-." Caroline Gipson thought
she was a gwine to apologize for her dress,. so~ she says
says she, I' Oh, no apologies necessary-'t was jest as
well to come in as you was." "What!" says she, "I
hope ye don't think I'd a dressed up if I had a know'd
I was a coniin' here ?..-not I. I don't believe in rig~
gin' up to come to a sewin' meeting , as some folks
dew".-~here she squinted at the Skinners-they had
on new plaid dresses~-." but 't ain't every body tliat
can afford to wear an old double gowud. I says to
Poll, my'waitin'-maid, 'Poll,' pays I,' go to the lumber-
roor~ and git my sun-bunnit and my blue calicer
double gownd; I 'm a gwine out.' 'Messy sakes!'

N

says Poll says she, 'does Miss Savage know 't the
blue double gownd has got one sleeve a' most ripped
out, and the linnin 's all tore so 't it hangs down below
the outside round the bottom?' 'Poll,' says I, 'if
't wasn't that you 'ye jest come out o' Peunsylvany
woods, and don't know nothing' about manners yet,
I '4 discharge ye on the spot for darin' to question me,
or make any remarks about what I order. I '11 for-
give ye this time on account o' yer ignorance, but if
ever you dew it agin you '11 git your walkin'-ticket on
short order, as sure as my name 's Miss Samson
Savage. Now start yer stumps, and fetch them things
quick meterr' So she fetcht 'em, and I went and
done my shoppin'. On my way hum, it struck me
that you was to meet here to-day, so thinks me,~ I'll
jest step m and see wht~t they 're up tew." "Wili
you take some sewin' ?" says Miss Birsley. "Not I,"
says she, "till I know what I 'n~ a sewin' for. What
do ye calculate to~ dew with the money ye raise?"
"We thought," says Miss Birsley, "that is,~he
majority of us thQuglit 't would be a good idee to am
enough to repair the meetin'-house and build a1 new
pulpit." "Murder !" says Miss Savage; "well, I vow
if that wouldn't be a worthy object." "So you don't
approve on 't, hey ?" says Miss Birsley. "Approve
on't?" say~she; "not I."
"No more don't me and Polly 'Mariar," says Miss
Stillman. Miss Savage went on: "I 'd look purty,

807

806


THE SEWING SOCIETY.    809

$08    WIDOW BflDOTT PAPERS.

wouldent I, a woi'kin' to fix up that meetin'-house for
Tuttle to preach in !" A' So you don't like~Mr. Tuttle,
hey ?" says Miss Birsley. "Like him?" says she;
"not L He don't know nothin'-can't preach no
more 'n that ~tove-pipe"-(she hates Parson Tuttle
'cause he hadn't never paid no more attention to her
than he has to the rest o' the congregation)-" he 's
as green as grass and as flat as a pancake." LL That 's
jest what mar and me thinks," says Polily Mariar
Stillman. Miss Savage went on: "He don't know
13 from a broomstick, nor bran when the bag 's open."
"That 's jest what IL think," says Miss Stillman. "IL
says to Mr. Stillman last Sabbath, as we was a comm'
from meeting , 'Mr. Stillman' says I"-But what 't was
she said to Mr. Stillman, dear knows, for Miss Savage
didn't let her go on. "IL say," says she, "I 'd look
beautiful a conAn' to Sewin' Society and working' the
eends o' my fingers off to build a pulpit for Tuttle to
be poked up in Sabbath after Sabbath, and preach off
jest what he 's a mind tew. No-ye don't ketch me
a takin' a stich for such an object. I despise Tuttle,
~nd I '11 tell him so tew' his face when IL git a chance.
Ye don't ketch me a slanderin' folks behind ther
backs an4 then soft-soapin' 'em to their faces, as some
folks dew"-(here she lookt at Miss Stillman and
Polly Mariar) "And where 's his wife, I 'd like to
know? Why ain't she here to work to-day? A
putty piece o' bisness, I must say, for you all to be

I

here a cliggin' away to fix up Tuttle's meetin.'-house,
when she 'a to hum a playing' lady." "Miss Tuttle
ain't very well," says I. '~ That 's a likely story,"
says Miss Savage; and from that she went on and
blazed away about Miss Tuttle at a terrible rate. Miss
Stiliman and Polly Mariar, and a number more o' the
wimmin, sot tew and helped her whenever they could
git a word in edgeways; and such a haulin' over as
Miss Tuttle and the. parson got, I never heerd afore
in all the days o' my life.
While they was in the midst on 't, Miss Gipsou
come to the door and axed us to walk out to tea-
she 'd ben out all ,the afternoon a glttin' it reddy-so
we put up our work and went out. We don't have
the tea handed round at our ineetin's as a general
thing; we have the things sot on a long table; the
woman o'the house pours tea at one eend, and we all
stan' round and help ourselves, lit 's very convenient,
especially where they don't keep no help. Well, we
all took hold, and for a while Parson Tuttle and his
wife and every body else had a restin' spell, for even
Mis~ Samson Savage had other use for her tongue.
She believes in dewin' one 1~hing to once. When ahe
eats she eats-and when she talks she talks.
And we had a real nice tea, I tell ye-biscuit and
butter, and~ crackers and cheese, and cold meat and
pickles, and custard and whipt cream, and three kinds
o' preserves, and four kinds o' cake, and what not!

*

s


810

WID0W'BEDOTT PAPE1~5.

I

I couldent help o' thinking' that the money laid. out on
that tea would. a went a good. way toward. the new
pulpit.
"What delightful biscuit," says Miss Grimes.
"They are so," says Miss Skinner; ~' but Miss Gip
son never has poor biscuit." "0 shaw 1" says Miss
Gipson, "you ain't in"arnest: my biscuits is miserable
-not nigh so good as common. I don't think the
flour 's first rate." "Miss Gipson, how dew you
make crackers ?" says Miss Stiliman; "I r~ever tasted.
none so good." "Now you don't mean so," says Miss
Gipson. "I can make good. crackers, but them 's very
poor; the oven wasn't jest right when I put 'em in."
"I must have another piece o' this cheese, it 's 50 good,"
says Miss Lippincott. "Where did you git it?'
"Well, I got it of old Daddy Sharp: he generally
makes excellent cheese, but IL tell Mr. Gipson old.
Sharp's failed. fo:r once-that 's what I call poor cheese."
"Dew taste o' this plum sass, Miss Peabody," says~
Miss Brewster; "I never see the beat on 't." "I 'd.
rather have these peaches," says Miss Peabody;
"they 're delicious. It is a mystery to me how Miss
Gipson always has such luck with her preserves.
I never dew, and. I always take pound for pound tew."
"This apple-jel 's the Glearest I ever see," says old. Miss
I~arker. "How did you make it, Miss Gipson? Dic1~
ent you dew it in the sun? I 'm sure it don't look as
if it ever was nigh the fire." "Now don't speak o'

1*

THE SEWING SOCIETY.

311

that jel," says Miss Gipson~ "ii told. Canine I was
ashamed. ~' my jel after seem' Miss Parker's, and. IL was
a most sorry I 'd made any preserves since I 'd eat
some o' Miss Peabody's and. Miss Skinner's, their was
so much nicer." So they went on. The whipt cream
and. custard had to be gone over Miss Gipson had. to
tell jest how 't was made-what flavorin' she used,
and all that-though she declared she was ashamed.
on 'to The caJ~e was praised. up: they must know
how much butter ther was in this, how~xiany eggs it
took for that and. so forth. Miss Gipson, of course,
run it down-she could 4nake good. cake, but somehow
she failed that time. A. person that dident know how
wimmin always go on at such a place, would. a thought
that Miss Gipson had tried. to hare every thing the
miserablest she possibly could, and that the Test on
em had never had. any thing to hum but, what was
miserable yet.
Well, every thing arthly comes to an eend, and. so
did. that tea after a spell, and. purty soon after we went
hum. Miss Stillman invited us to meet to their house
next time. 5J21e urged. Miss Sampson Savag~ to come,
and. II don't doubt but what. she will if she thinks
ther 's any chance for kicking' up a muss. I was in to
Miss Birsley's the next day, and she and I talked. it
over. She s~ys we hain't accomplished. much yit, for
some o' the work 's done so miserable 't won't
never sell in creation without it 's picked. out and


812      ~vxr'ow  BEDOTT PAPERS.
done over better. The rest i's put together wrong,
and has got to be took to pieces Whether or.~no. For
my part, I feel eny most diseou~aged about the Sewin'
Society.
XXVI.
J ~V~E ben a journey senee I s
~L down to Slabtown, to see ~
that lives there. She 't was Eui
ned a Bentley, carpenter and j
moved from Coon's Holler to
year ago, and there he hollered ti
and done very w~ll at it. I h
they went away, and bein' as sb
and made me promise I 'd come
she was to our ho~s~, I thought
used to set a great deal by Eunic
I thought there never was a hap
and Bentley was when they live
had a good trade and was indust
and they got along first rat~. ~
couple o' the nicest behaved cliii
Lucy, the eldest, was about eiglr
moved awdy, and Henry was fly
But I found things considera1~
come to Slabtown. it 's quite a
14

/
aw you, Nancy, away
~ cousin o' husband's
iice Ludlow, she mar-
jiner by trade. They
Slabtown about five
~ie lumberin' business,
adent seen ~em since
~ urged me very hard,
out there the last time
I 'd ought to go. I
e when she was a gal.
pier couple than she
d at the Holler. He
~rious, and so was she,
~nd then they had a
dren that I ever see.
1 year old when they
e or six.
~ly altered since they
big place, as big agiii


314     WIDO~T flED0TT PAPERS.

815

as Scrabble Hill, and. growing' bigger all the time.
Eunice had got her idees raised a good deal, and had
some wonderful curus notions about gintility. The
'house was furnished mighty grand, and she didn't dew
her own work as she used to at the Holler, but kept
a great slatterin', imperdent hired gal, that done jest
as she was a mind tew about every thing.
Lucy, tew, she was a growing' up ginteeL She 's
got to be the proudest little thing that ever I see,
peart and bold,. and right up in every body's face and
eyes, sticking' in her gab all the time, and nipping' round
with a couple of awful long pigtails with bows on the
cends, a dangling' down her back.
Henry, he 's about as hateful a young one as ever
went unflogged. I used to dread his comm' hum from
schoQl; for he went yelling' and hollering' round the
house, kickin' and spittin', a~d sassin' every body that
spoke to him. I actilly heerd him swear a number o'
times. And he 's out in the streets late o' nights,
playing' and Ilghtin' with all sorts o' boys. I talked to
his father about it, told him I thought he 'd ought to
keep Henry i o' nights, and be more particular about
his 'sociates. But he hawhaw'd right out in my face;
"Shaw, Aunt Magwire," says he, "that 's all cant. I
believe in letting' boys run; it 's the only way to make
'em independent." "Sam Bentley," says I, "you
ain't the man you used to be. When you lived to
the H4ler, you was quite particular about yer ohil-

VISIT TO SLABTOW~T.

dren, and about herself tew; for I remember you
used to go to meeting' quite stiddy with Eunice, and
always had prayers in yer family night and morning. "
Don't never mention that agin," says he; "I 'm
ashamed on 'to I was green in' them days; now I 'ye
got more enlarged views. The fact is, Aunt Magwire,
Slabtown 's a great place. If 'd a stayed at Coon's
Holler, ten to one, I 'd a went on in that snivellin',
cantina , go.'to-meetin' way all my life." "Like
enough," says I; "and mabby got to heaven in it last.
Slabtown is a great place, and no mistake." Sam did.
ent ~ay no more.
Eunice didn't seem to be very proud o' me, I 'm
such a plain, homemade body. She never introduced
me / to none of her genteel .acquaintances when they
called; so, as I didn't have nothing to say, I used to
have the benefit of all the conversation, and sartinly
't was quite entertain'. They generally begun with
the fashions. Next, they took up the subject o' hired
gals, and when they 'd wore that out, the neighbor.
hood in gineraihad to undergo a haulin' over. 'T was
pretty much the same as it is in Scrabble Hill, only I
think the Slabtown folks ihake ruther more fuss over
each other to their faces, than what they dew in our
place.
One afternoon, there was a youngish married wo.
man by the name o' Miss Teeters called. She and
Eunice ~ire quite intimit; though, after ill, Euu~ce


81,8   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

VISIT TO SLABTOWN.         817

dQn't seem to think much of her, but she considers
her wonderful genteel. Her gintility seemed to con-
sist in her wearing' more colors than I ever see on to
once afore in all my born days. She had on a yeller
bunnit, with a great pink ai~tfficial on it; a red shawl;
and a green silk frock, and blue ribbon round her
neck, and I forget what all; but t' was enough to
make a body's eyes ache to look at her.
After they' 'd gone over with the fashions, says Miss
Teeters, says she: "I see you keep Marthy yet; how
do you git along with her ?"
But afore Eunice had time to answer her, the dbor
was banged open, and the very Miss Hawkins they 'd
ben talking' about come bowsin into the the room with-
out ever ringin the bell. She was clear out o' breath*
for she ~s quite a fleshy woman. Her face was as red
as a blaze, and her'green satin sack was all one-sided.
She looked as if she 'd fixed in a wonderful hurry and
run all the way. "What 's to pay ?" says Miss Tee.
ters and Eunice in a breath. She couldn't speak fo~r
a minnit or so, she was so exhausted. I got up and
giv her the rockin'-cheer I was a sitting' in, and she
squoze herself into it, and says she-
"Have you heerd the news
"What news?" says Miss Teeters and~Miss Bentley,
opening' their mouths and eyes and stretching' their
necks. "What news ?-.--.dew tell, for pity's. sake I"
"0 dear me, suz," says she, "I never was 59 chin.

foundered' in all my life. Cousin Jeemes Was irk to
our house not half an hour ago, and read it to Sary
Ann and me. I thought Ii 'd run in and see if Miss
Teeters had heerd on 't. They said she was over to
Mr. Bentley's, so I come right on here."
"Well, what ,is it, in the name o' wonder?" says
Miss Teeters, says she.
"0 dear me," says Miss Hawkins, a blowing' herself
with her handkercher as hard as ever she could. "0
dear me, ther 's the awfulest piece that you ever see,
come out in the 'Ladies Book,' and it 's all about our
Sewin' Society, takin' us off to an ioty, ~and tellin' all
how we go on; and, of course, 't was writ in this vil-
lage."
"You don't ?" says Miss Teeters, says she.
"It's a fact," says ~Eiss Hawkins. "And what 's
worse yet, our minister's wife writ it."
"How you talk 1" says Miss Teeters.
"Well, I shouldn't wonder," says Eunice, says she,
"for I 'ye heerd that your minister's wife writes for~tn~
papers. But, pray, what does it say ?"
"Oh," says Miss Hawkins, "as'true as I 'm a live
woman, it 's got every one of our members in, and
slkows us all up shamefully, only jest me and Sary
Ann. I can't see as ther 's any body in it that re-
sembles us a mite. But you 're drawled out, Miss
Teeters; and Cappen Sapley, he 's down large as life;
and the Bomans are in for 't; and so 's Bill Sweezer's


318   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                            VISIT TO SLABTOWN.    319

wife, and Satnanthy Cooper~ and Tom Baily 's wife,
an~'d Miss Ben Ourtis; and there 's a Miss Stiliman and
her daughter, that 's meant for the Longs. They 're
all fictitious names, to be sure, but it 's easy enough
to tell who 's who. But the squire's wife ketches it
the worst of all. I tell ye, it takes her off to fits.
Nobody can mistake it. Jeemes wouldn't let us keep
it,, or I 'd a fetcht it over. He war gwine to take it, in
to the Bomanses. I hope you '11 get hold' on 't; for
of all the abominable messes that ever Ii see, it 's the
crownin' pint."
"Well, I nev~r heerd the beat on 't," says Miss Tee.
ters.
"Nor I neither," says Eunice. "I should think a
minister's wife might be in better business. Well,
I 'm glad I don't belong to your Society. I ain't took
off, that 's sarfin. But how do you know it actilly
b
means your Society ?"
"Oh, that 's plain enough," says Miss Hawkins,
"for it tells things that was positively said and done
at some o' the meeting's. Jest how the squire's wife
went on; calls her 'Miss Samson Savage."" (I begun
to prick up my ears. Thinksme, what on airth does
all this mean ?)-~-" But the mystery to me is, how the
minister's wife got hold on 't. She wasn't there.
somebody that was there must a told her. I wonder
who 't was ?"
Mi s Teeters turned rather red. I thought she

looked kind o guilty; and says she: "It 's abominable
.-it 's ridiculous! I 'II go right home and tell my hiis
band how the minister's wife 's ben writing' about me;
and I shouldent wonder if he should take the matter
up-he 's cowhide a number of individdiwals for
speaking' disparaging' o' me. But has the squire's wife
heerd on 't ?"
"No," says Miss Hawkins. "I stopt there as I
come ~dong, but she 'd gone out 0' town. Won't she
be mad, though; she 's such a fiery critter I"
"I say," says Miss Teeters, says she, "it 's high
time we got rid o' the minister; he ain't the man for
us. .A genteel and intellectible congregation like our'n
had ought to have a man o' great eloquential powers.
And as for his wife, I never could bear her, with her
old stripid dress that she wears every Sunday, rain or
shine. I don't believe she was ever accustomed to
ginteel society."
"iNor I neither," says Miss Hawkins. "I took a
dislike tew her when they first come here. I don't
like yer mum characters that never say nothing' about
nobody. It seems she 's ben~ savin' on 't up to let off
in the newspapers. Bethi~r Nobles says she told her
she thought our congregation drest tew much; and I
shouldn't wonder if she did, for she' stuck to that old.
straw bui~uit and everlasting' stripid dress all winter,
and I s'pose it 's to set an example o' plainness afore
us, jest as if we 'd fuller her lead. For my part, I think

t1J~

II~


'4

820

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPflRS.

she might better spend more time a dressing , and less
a. writing' for the newspapers. And they say he in.
courage her in it, and likes to, have her write. I wish
they was both frirder off."
"I wish so tew," says Miss Seeters; "'and I guess
ther 's a good many that wish so. She ain't popular at
all in our set. She never runs in sociably, as Miss
Van Duzen used to. They say she goes a great deaV
more among the poor folks, than she does among the
giitteel part o' the congregation. And that 's a sure
sign, I thi'nlc, that she 's ben more accustomed to ming-
un' with them sort o' folks, than with such as we be."
Well, they blazed away in that style for as much as
an hour. I can't remember half they said; and Eunice
she told 'em that if she was they, she wouldn't put up
with it; she 'd make a fuss about it, and have the
minister sent off.
As soon as they 'd gone, Eunice burst out a laughing ,
and says she: "Well, if that ain't the best piece o'
news I 'ye heerdthL~ many a day. I 'ye always heerd
that that Sewin' Society was a regular slander-mill,
where the principal business is to brew mischief against
the minister; and I 'iii glad they 'ye got showed up at
last. The minister 's. a good man, and a smart man
tew; but the biggest part o' the congregation is such a
set of ignoramuses, that thy don't know a smart man
from a fool. They always make a great fuss over
their minister when he first comes; but if he don't

VISIT TO SIjABTOWN.

321

preach smooth things tew 'em all the time, they soon
contrive to starve him out or quarrel him off. When
they gin this one a call, they agreed to give him five
hundred dollars a year, and pay it quarterly. And it
is a solemn fact, that half on 't hadn't ben paid yet.
Betsey Hall, a girl that used to wash for 'em some-
times, told me so. She said she 'd often listened to
the door, and heerd the minister and his wife a talking'
over their troubles; and she says that ther ain't more 'n
half a dozen in the congregation that pay their dues
regularly; and if 't wasn't for what the minister's wife
gits for writing' for the newspapers, they wouldn't be
able to pay their house-rent and keep out o' debt, no
way. She said she overheerd him say to his wife one
day: 'The quarter's rent '11 be due next Saturday, and
I hain't a cent to pay it.' 'Keep up your courage my
dear,' says she, 'perhaps I shall have something' from
Philadelphy before then.' And Betsey said she guess-
ed it come, for she was known' to the rent bein' paid
the next Saturday. I couldn't help laughing ~ in my
sleeve when Miss Teeters was a tellin' how much bet.
ter Parson Van Duzen's wife was liked than this one.
They abused her like a pickpocket when she was here
and was always a running' her down. She couldent
dew nothing' to please 'em."
"Eunice," said I, why dident you talk so when they
was in, ~nd tell 'em plainly to their faee~ what you
thought."
14*


822     WII~OW BEflOTT PIAPEI~S.                                     VISIT TO SLABTOWN.           $28

""0 law," says she, "I dident want to get mixed up
in their quarrels." And then she throw'd on her
things and run off to some o' the neighbors to tell the
news and talk over it. She was gone till tea time.
But she didn't ~have the satisfaction o' tellin' the story
first, for every body where she went had he~rd it al-
ready. News flies like wildfire in Slabtown. She
didn't git hold o' the piece though; nobody hadent~~
seen it, but they 'd all heerd about it. It 's wonderful
how soon 't was in every body's mouth. When Sam
comes hum he was full on 't-said 't was all over town
-nothin' else was talked about~from one eend o' the
village to t'other. Eunice was very anxious to read
it; and Sam went to the bookstore to git it, but they'd
sold every copy they had, and ther was a great call
for more. Ther was a wonderful excitement about it.
Sam said the Californy fever was nothing tew it.
Californy and every thing else seemed to be entirely
forgot for a spell. The wimmin laid aside all other
business, and added round from house to house talk-
in about the Sewin' Society. And the men, tew,
they 're as fond o' 4atlin' and gossiping' in Slabtown as
the wimmin. They met together in shops and stores,
and ;bar-rooms and oyster-cellars, and talked it over.
Wherever you 'd see a mess o' men standing' y6u night~
know they was discussion' the Sewin' Society.
In Slabtown, every body knows jest what every
body else says and does. It seemed raly wonderful to

me how all that was said was trumpeted round. Fri-
vate conversations was blazed all ovet town, that must
a ben carried by the birds o' the air, or else ther must
a ben a good many ears occupied at a good many
key-holes. I was wonderfully struck with this faculty
in the Slabtown folks. They 're a community remar-
kable for their inquiring' minds. If 't was applied to
any useful purpose, ther 's no calculation' how much
they might accomplish. If the government should
ever conclude to make researches into the manners
and customs o' the antipodes wader ground, I should
advise 'em to send to Slabtown for an exploring' coin-
pany. I '11 warrant 1they 'd find out ~ll how and about
it for 'em. They 'd report all that 's a dewin' there,
and ~ good deal more. So 't was about that article
that was laid to the ministers wife's door. Every body
know'd what every body else said and thought about
it. The inquirin' minds was all at work. Every
hour in the day ther was somebody a running' into
Bentley's with some new story-something the Haw.
kin~es or the Longs, or the Teeeters, or the squire's
folks had said or dQne.
"' And 'Miss Samson Savage,' "says Miss Teeters--
"did you ever see such~ a perfect picter as that is o'
the squire's wife ?-liow exactly it goes on like her,
don't it? Any body that ever ~ee her wotQd~know it
in a miiiute97'
"But," says Teeters, "I don't see how the i8te~'8

I


824      WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
9
wife found out how she talked. Some 0' your mem-
bers must a peached."
Miss Teeters blushed, and says she: "dli, dear me,
I 'm dreadfi.illy afeard she 'II think 't was me. If she
should, she 'd hate me like pisen, and never invite me
to any more o' her parties. ]i wouldn't git her ill-will
for all the world. What shall I dew? I must run
right over there 'fore any body else see her, and make
it all straight."
"That 's right," said Teeters. "I wouldn't be struck
out o' her good books for no money. We '11 show
her that we don't uphold the minister's wife in such
conduct. But I must dew something tew. If she
was only a man I could give her a cowhidin' or at
least threaten to; but bein' she 's a woman I don't
know what to dew."
"I '11 tell ye, Teeters, wliat ye can dew," said his
wife. "You can circulate a petition to get the minis-
ter dismissed."
"That 's the checker," said Teeters, with a terrible
oath.
So Miss Teeters flung on her things and started olE
for the squire's. And Teeters s6t down to draw up
his petition. When she got to the squire's, Miss Tee-
ters hi.ur herself down on the sofy and fainted away;
and the squire's wife run for the cologne bottle.
When she began to come tew, says the squire's wife,
says she~-~.

I

VISIT TO SIJABTOWN.       825

"For the land's sake, child, wl~at 's the matter with'
ye?"
Miss Teeters groaned, and says she: "Have you
seen the L~dy's Book ?"
"What lady's book ?" says the squire's wife, says
/
she.
~C Why the Lady's Book that 's printed in Philadel~
phy once a month."
"No, I hadn't seen it1" says she. "What on 't ?"
"Well, I 'm so glad you hadn't," says Miss Teeters;
"and I do hope you won't. Don't you look at it if you
do see it. I beg of you not to IQok at it for all the
world. Promise me you won't open it if you do see
it."
"Well, I should like to know," says the squire's
wife, "what 's the reason I must n't look at that par-
tic'lar bool~. For gracious sake, out with it 1"
"Oh," says Miss Teeters, "ther 's the awfu]lest piece
i~ it that ever you sot eyes on; and every body says
the minister's wife writ it. It 's all about our Sewin'
Society-takes us off most shamefully-but you es-
pecially-shows you up abominably-calls you 'Miss
* Samson Savage.' It ain't a bit like you, to be sure
but it 's perfectly horrid. Do promise me not to read
it; for it '11 hurt your feelings dreadfully. It did mine.
To thin]F that a person I set so much by as I do
by you1 should be so abused! Mr. Teeters is perfect'
ly outrageous about it ;~ he says it is n't to be borne.

r


326   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

VISIT TO SLABTOWN.         327

He 's intending' to start a petition to have the minister
sent ofI You know we 'ye long ben tryin' to git rid
of him, and this '11 be a good opportunity".-(Miss
Teeters had always pretended to the minister that she
was one of his best friends, and was always a running'
t~w him with every thing the squire's;wife and Miss
Hawkins said against him. Of course, he nor his
wife hadent iio confidence in her. They understood
human nater well enough to know she 'd talk against
them behind their backs,)
was natural enough, after all this parade, that the
squire's wife should be in a terrible pucker to see the
Lady's Book. So; after makin' a wonderfttl to do
about it, and pretending' s]ie was awful unwilling , Miss
Teeters fetcht her the book. At first, the squire's
wife declared that Miss Savage wasn't meant for h~r,.
but all herpctrti'cular friends insisted ttpon it that 't wag.
So at last she had to give up, and, of cQurse, she was
awful mad about it, and stormed away at a terrible
rate.
Miss Hawkins, she kept the ball a rollin'; devoted
* her hull time to Tunnin' round the neighborhood and
blazing' away about it. She was what folks call" toady"
to the squire's wife, and every body said that the
"Miss Stillman. in the piece, that was makin' such a
muss, meant 'her, and she tho't so tew. But she tho't.
that if she could make folks believe 't was intended
for Miss Long, she could accomplish tew ends: she 'd

git rid o' havin' the names o' Miss Stiiman and Polly
M~riar' tucked onto her and her daughter, and, what was
purty important, turn the Longs against the minister
and his wife. Now the Longs was very stiddy, go-to-
meetin' sort o' folks, and had always been very friend-
ly to the ixiinister's family. So Miss Hawkins went
puffin' and blowing, round town, makin' a terrible fuss
about the "piece," and dwelling' particularly on the awful
shame it was to take off the Longs so. One day she went
into the squire's, and the squire's wife says to her
says she: "Well, how do you feel about bein' hit off
by Aunt Magwire? You ketch it about as bad as I
dew."
"0 shaw," says Miss Hawkins, "I ain't hit off at all.
What makes you think I be ?"
"Now? Hawky,"says the squire's wife, "it 's all non-
sense for you to try to make me think that ain't meant
for you and Sary Ann." "I know 't is."
"Well," says Miss Hawkins, says she, "between
you and me, the fact is, whether 't was meant for me
or not, one thing 's clear, if we could make the Longs
believe 't was intended for them, we should be pretty
sure o' ~ittin' rid o' the minister. For, of course, Miss
Long and Helen would feel dretf'ully hurt about
bein' took off so by the minister's wife, and Mr. Long
he 'd thi~~k jest as they. did. And if we can once git
the Longs set against the minister's folks, they '11 have
to quit in short order."

A'

/


~828   WIDOW BEDOTT PAYERS.                            VISIT TO SLABTOWN.    829

"Wells that is an idee," says the squire's wife.
"Hawky, you 's more c~rnnin' than I be. If 'Daddy-
long-legs' ".-(that 's what she calls Mr. Long behind
his back.-" once gits his dander up it '11 be all day
with the parson; for some how or other, he 's contriv-
ed to git considerable influence in the parish. It must
be because h~ 's such a stiddy old poke, for he hadn't
no more mind of his own than that pair o' tongs. I
can turn him round with my little finger. I guess I '11
go down and give 'em a stirring' up." So up she start-
ed and off she traipsed to Mr. Long'sb She marched
into the parlor, where Miss Long and Helen was a sit-
tin', and makin' a low curchy, she says, says she:
"Miss Samson Savage, at your service; and how does
Miss Stillman and Polly Mariar dew to day ?"
Well, to make a long story short, the Longs was
made to believe that the minister's wife had. actilly
ben showing' 'em up. Of course they was outrageous
about it; and Miss Long talked harder against the min-
ister's wife than' she 'd ever talked against any body
afQre. She dident go tew her, like~ a Christian ought
to, and ax an explanation, but she contented herself
with calling' her an abominable woman and a skam~fid
critter, and said she wasn't fit to be' a minister's wife,
and so forth. And Mr. Long he jined in with the op.
position, and wanted the minister to quit.
And Teeters, b~e got up his petition, anti went blus*
term' round with it, threatening' to cowhide every body

that didn't sign it. He hadent got but a few names
to it, when he went into Sharp's store and axed Sharp
to sign it. Sharp's a straight-forrard feller, that minds
his own business He took the petition and lookt at
it, and then deliberately opened the stove door and
throw'd it in; and turning' to Teeters, says he: "Tee-
ters, you 're a fool; go hum and take care o' yer wife,
and let alone meddling' with what 's none o' yer busi-
/
ness."
I s'pose you think Teeters cowhide him on the
spot; but you 're mistaken. He went hum and took
it out in ripping' and swearin', and threatening' to take
the law o' Sharp.

)


£

I

xx Vii.

I

LAW me, Nancy, why 't would take a week to tell
all the saying's and dewin's that took place in
Slabtown in consequence o' that article in the Lady's
Book. I never see nor heerd o' nothing' equal to 't.
Such a tempest in a tea-pot! such an awful uproar
~about nothing ! 'T was wonderfub-'t was amusin' tow.
And what was the poor minister's wife about all this
time? Why she was to hum, a minding' her own
business as~ usual. Miss Teeters was heerd to say to
several individdiwals, that she guessed that old stripid
dress and straw bunnit wouldn't darst to show them-
selves in church no more, when there was such an
excitement. But Sunday came and there was the
minister's wife in her seat, looking' jest as if nothing'
had happened more 'n or'nai~y. The. members o' the
Sewin' Society thoup:ht 't was very audacious in
her.
'T was ciir'us to see how all the persons that was
* the most active in makin' a noise and keeping up the
excitement, h~d Av~'y ~ne on 'inn some eend o' their

VISIT TO SIJABTOWN.

381

own that they hoped to forward by makin' a hue and
cry. There was the Slaters, they were dretful mad at
the squire's wife, because she hadent invited 'em to
her last party. And Mr. Sweezer had told 'em that
the squire's wife remarked at her party, that she
didn't invite the Slaters because she meant to be more
select in her parties in futur'. Sweeper's very intimit
with the squire's folks-a kind o' boot-licker tew 'em
.-though he 's always slanderin' 'em to their~ backs.
lb 's a regular man-gossip. Well, the Slaters was
wonderful tickled to see the squire's wife git such a
dressin' out, as they called it; so they went round ex-
ultin' over it.
Then thor was a number that was wonderful anxious
to git themselves into notice, no matter how. And
they blazed away about the imyropriety o' writing' such
articles. They disproved on 'em entirely. But them
that was tryin' to git into the squire's wife's good
graces, was the most obstropelous about it. They
called it abominable-awful! they hoped the squire
would take the .law o' the minister's wife, and so forth.
And some that was rejoiced to git hold o' any thing
that could be turned against the minister, went sneak.
in7 round takin7 it up in a sly way; they was very
sorry it ~had happened, very; but it was all up with
the minister now; he might as well pack up his traps
and budge at once; for he couldn't be supported in
Slabtown no longer, public sentiment was so against


882    wixow BEDOTT PAEB8.                            VISIT TO SLABTOW~.     333

him. Then, tew, ther was a careful set, such as there
is every where, that wanted to be "right side up ;"
and not be~n' able to determine for sartin which would
turn out to be the popular party, all they do4e, when
the "Sewin' Society" was mentioned, was to shake
their heads and look knownn, But the tew-sided
party was the most numerous. They circulated round
from the minister's friends to his enemies, and pretend-
ed to belong to jest the side they happened to be with.
To the minister's friends they said, "that was a first-
rate article in the Book; 't was capital-'t was
true to nater-it took off them that deserved it richly;
and they hoped that the author 'd write more, and give
'em another dig." When they got among the op.
polite party, they said "'t was a slanderous thing-
't was shamefui-.'t wasn't 'to be put up with;" and
,then they carried back and forth all Vhey heerd on
both sides, and made a sight o' mischief. Mr. Sweezer
was one o' this kind. He had about as much as he
could attend t6 for a spell, running' from one side
t' other carrying' the news.
But the most active o' the twosiders was ]3ethiar
Nobles, an old gal that gits her livin' principally by
visiting . She 's acquainted with every thing that goes
on in the village; knows every body's business, jest
what young folks are engaged, and who 's broke off
* their engagements;.. who 's ben disappointed, and
who 's distracted after who. She knows 'jest what
1"

couples lives~ like cats and dogs together, what~
ones is livin' beyond their means, and who 's over
head and ears in debt, and how every lady in town
carries on her kitchenary consarns, how sorimpin' they
live, and all that. She always has some great exciting'
piece o' scandal on her hands that serves. for visiting .
capital; and when one wears out she trumps up
another. She 's an awful disagreeable old critter, but
still ther 's plenty o' folks that 's willin' to ineourage
her, for the sake o' hearing' her talk. Well, when the
Sewin.' Society' muss tome up, she was on her high
heels. It gin her plenty o' business for a spell. She1
visited on the strength on 't for a month at least. As
sure as the day come round, off started Bethiar Nobles
on her scandal-peddlin' expedition. Wherever she
went, the first question she axed was: "Have you
seen that article in the Lady's Book?" and the next:
"What do yQii think on't?" and what ever they
thought she thought tew, and jawed away accordin'Iy,
and spent the 'clay a tellin' what she heerd on both
sides.
One day she went to the minister's and spent the
afternoon. After she 'd hauled out her knitting' work,
and spread 'her white haffdkerchief across her lap for
show (she 's an' awful snuff-taker, and carries an old
rec~silk o~e in her pocket for use)-.after she 'd hauled
out her knitting' work, says she ,"Have you seen that
piece that 's come out in the Lady's Book?"


VISIT TO SLA]3TOWN~          335

834    WIDOW 3flDOTT PArE~8.

"I 'ye seen a number~ of pieces in the Lady's
Book," says the minister's wife, "which one do you
refer to?"
"Why, that one about the Sewin' Society that
appeared in the Jinuwary number," says Bethiar, says
she.
"I haven't read that number at all," says the
minister's wife. ~" Mine was borrowed before I 'd had
time to open it."
Well, I've seen it," says Bethiar; "and I think
it '~ complete. I hope the person that writ that 'II keep
on writing , and give it to 'em again. I never see
nothing' to beat that description of the squire's wife-
it 's her to a T. They say she feels it tew. I 'm glad
she, does; and I hope it 'll make her draw in her horns
and remember her origin, and behave a little more
decent. And Miss Teeters, I was glad to see her
ketch it-ridicilous critter, neglecting' her children
and flirtin' round with the young men all the time.
And the Longs; that 's the best o' the hull; I tell ye,
it done me good to see them cut up. I hope it 'II lam
'em to think for themselves, and not pin their faith to
big folkses coat-tails. They never have no opinion~ o'
their own. I deii despise them Longs." The minister's
wife interrupted her, and says she-.
"Dident you spend t1~e day at Mr. Long's yester-
day?"
"Yes," says Berthiar, says she.

"Seems to me it 's strange you should visit people
you despise so," says the minister's wife.
Bethiar was rather nonpiushed for a minute, and
didn't seem to know what to say. She hauled out
her snuff-box and took a mQn$itrous pinch, and draw'd
round her nose one side and snuffed it up, and then
draw'd it round t' other side and snuffed it up agin;'
and when she 'd fixed out what to say, she begun :-
Yes, I did spend the day there, and it 's the last
day I '11 spend there for one while, I guess; for they
had so much to say against you and yer husband that I
was perfectly disgusted. They 're awful mad about that
piece, and say you writ it. I told 'em, whether you
did or not, I thought 't was a first-rate thing." So
she run on, tellin' ever so much stuff that the Longs
had said against the minister and his wife, and all
how she tried to stop 'em, and felt so distress to hear
'em. The minister's wife kept on sewin', and didn't
make no farther remark. Bethiar stayed all the after-
noon and evening , and talked and snuffed, and bored
'em through and through.; and then went off declarirL'
she 'd had a delightful visit.
The next day she went to the squire's-Miss Teeters
and Miss llawkins was there~ They was all glad to
see Bethiar come in, for they know'd she 'd bring the
news. She~,told 'em she 'd ben to the minister's; and
they was wonderful cur'us to know how the minister's
wife felt, and all she said and done. "Was she a

I


888    WIDOW BEDOTT P&amp;P~RS.                          VISIT TO BLABTOWN.      887

writing' ?" says Miss Teeters. "No," says Bethiar;
"not when I went in; she 'd. jest tucked it away when
she h~erd the bell ring. I know'd by the looks o'
things that she 'd ben a writing . She don't keep no
help now; and I stayed .to tea a purpose to see what
sort o' work she made gittin' vittals. When she went
out to gi~ tea I offered to go and help her; for I did
want to take a peep into the butt'ry and see what con.
edition 't was in-they ~s~y these writing' wimmin is
such sluttish critters about their houses. But she was
tew cunnin' to let me see behind the curtain . She said
she didn't need no assistance."
"Why dident you insist upon 't and go ahead,
whether or no ?" says the squire's wife. "That 's the
way I 'd a done."
"Oh," says Bethiar, "she '~ so kind o' stiff I
darsent; but I. took a good look round when I went
into the bedroom to take off my things. I wish to
gracious you could see the quilt that 's on her bed I
It 's the greatest curiosity in the quilting' line that ever
I sot eyes on-old fashioned herring~ bone, the lines
as much as tew inches apart-without stretching , full
tewinches apart!"
It 's cur'us, by the way, what a wonderful time the
Sl~btown wimmin make about their quilts. Ther
seems to be a continniwal strife there as to who shall
git the most stitehin' on a quilt. They crowd and
stuff 'em a~ full o' work as they possibly can. Folks

that 's able to buy handsome bed-kivers, never think
o' such a thing. But they '11 spend ever so many
weeks a digging' away at a, home-made bed-quilt, and
git the neighbors together time and agin, and stitch,
stitch, stitch, stitch, as if their lives depended 6n 't,
and not feel satisfied till every spot. as big as a six-
pence is kivered with stitches. Eunice had a quilting'
while I, was there. My eyes wa'n't good enough to
work on the quilt, and Eunice didn't seem to be very
sorry; for she wa'n't very anxious to have me make
my appearance amOng her genteel friends. So I
staid up in my own room. Ther was a stovepipe
hole in the floor from the parlor where they was
quilting , and I could hear 'em talk. Grammany, what
a buzzing' they kep~up! I tell ye, every body that
wasn't there had to take it, and no mistake. It would
have to be a pretty ~skillful arithmeticker that could
calculate how many characters can be pulled to pieces
while one quilt 's a putting' together. But I was tellin'
about Bethiar Noble's account o' her visjt to the
parson's. She -went on to tell, and says she-.
"And of all the teas that ever I sot down tew~, if
that wa'n't the beat!" (she 'praised up every thing sky
high while she was eatin' on 't). "Baker's bread as
dry as a stic~k. I s'pose s~he 's tew lazy to make her
own bread~ or else she has so much writin~ to dew she
can't spend time; and the cake.~-dear knows how
15

887


888    WIDOW BEDOTT, PAI'flRS.

VISIT TO SLABTOWN.         889

long it had ben baked-and p1um-sass'~ as sour as
vengeance."
"But what did she say ?" says the scjuire's wife~
"That 's the main pint. What did she have to say
about the ~ieee ?"
"She kept pretty mum about that, .1 tell ye," says
Bethiar; "for, you see, I pretended I didn't know
she writ it, so I went on and told my opinion pretty
freely. I said that I guessed if the writer on 't thought
they was a gwine to injure people of such standing' as
the squire's wife and Miss Teeters, they 'd find them-
selves mistaken. She look't awful mad, but never
opened her head. Then I spol~e o' the Longs, what
fine people i~hey was, and said ~ spent the day before
with 'em. When I said that, she spoke up, and
say she: 'Well, I wouldn't visit such despisable
people.'"
~' She talked against the Longs, hey ?" says the
squire's wife. "Wel], they ought to know it"
*" They shcdt know it," says Miss Teeters.
"I thought I should tell 'em on 't," says Bethiar.
"Well, they must know it to-day, for to-morrow 's
Sunday," says Miss Hawkins. "I s'pose you calculate
to, spend the afternoon here, so I guess I'll jest rim
down myself an~ve 'em a hint on
Well, I kept a hearing' more and more every day,
and what to make on 't, I dident know. 'T was all
"Miss Samson Savage, and Miss Stillman, and Miss

Fmstick and Miss Birsley." Thinks me, how on arth
has all this about our Sewi~i' Society got out? and
what makes the Slabtown folks think it means .them?
Ii was wonderful puzzled, but thought 't wasn't best to
say any thing about it. At last, one day, Sam got
hold of a Lady's Book, and fetcht it hum; and Eunice
took it and sot down to read the wonderful piece out
loud. She turned along till she come to 't, and says
'she: "Here 't is-..' Aunt Magwire's Account of the
Sewin' Society at Scrabble Hill."' I tell you, I
jumped as if I was shot: "Grammany," says I, "that
means me!" Then it begun to crawl through my
hair that the name o' the book was "God~y's Lady's
Book," and says I: "I 'II bet a dollar it 's the same
Mr. Godey that I know, and he 's went and printed
off that story that I told him alout our Sewin' So-
ciety." After I got calmed down a little, Eunice went
on and read it; and, sure enough, there 't was, word
for word, jest as I told it to Mr. Godey. I told 'em
so.
"Now, Sam;" says I," you go right off down~street,
and tell every body that that are 's a ginniwine de-
scription of our Scrabbl&amp; Hill Sewin' Society, and
nothing' else."
"I shan't dew it," says Sam. "They wouldent be-
lieveawcirdon'tif I should; and, besides, I like to
see the fun go on."
"I say so tew," says Eunice, "If they 're a mind


840

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

to take it tew themselves, let 'em; they deserve a
usin' i~p, and I 'd be the last one to tell 'em they. had-
Well; what to dew, I didn't know; I was a
stranger there, and couldn't go round tellin? how 't was
myself. But it did hurt my feelings aniazin'ly, to
think that the minister's wife was a suffering' for 't, and
that his enemies was a makin' a handle on 't to injure
him and drive him away. I pondered on 't, and, pon-
dered on 't; and, at last, I made up my mind that the
least I could dew would be go to the minister's and
explain it tew 'em. So I told Sam and Eunice what
I meant to dew. But they tried to persuade me not
to. Eunice said 't was all nonsense; she wa'n't ac-
quainted with the minister's wife, but she looked like
a very stiff; haughty woman, and she 'd treat me cool,
and I 'd have my labor for my pains. But I deter-
mined to set my own conscience at rest, so I put on
my things and started off. Eunice tried with all her
might to stop me, but my mind was made up. Sam
wouldent go with me, nor tell me where they lived,
so I had to inquire the way as' I went. 'T was a
moonlight night, and I didn't have no trouble in
finding' the house; but 't was onpleasant to be out
alone in a strange place. When I got to the -door-
steps' my courage failed, and I was afeard t&amp; ring the
bell; I didn't know but what ther was company in,
and didn't want to go in if thar was. I noticed a

$

841

VISIT TO SLABTOWN.

little crack one side o' the winder shades, s&amp;1 stepped
up softly and peeped in. Ther wasn't nobody. there
but the minister's wife; she sot by the table a darnin'
stocking, and ther was a big basketful o' duds beside
her, that she was a gwine to mend. She looked like
a good entered woman. I stood and watched her
for some time. As I was a looking' at herr I noticed a
smile come over her face. Thinks me, I '11 bet a dol-
lar she 's a thinking' about the "Sewin' Society." A
minute after, the smile went off; and she looked
troubled and uneasy; thinks me, she 's a wondering'
what '11 turn up next. It made me think of poor Miss
Scrantum, and her troubles. After a spell I plucked
up courage and pulled the bell. She come to the
door and axed me in; but after I 'd got seated, I did.
ent know how to begin nor what to say. The minis~
ter's wife see that I felt aukard, so she maie some re-
mark about the weather, and so on; then she axed
me to take off my things; I thanked her, and said I
couldn't stay long. At la~t I ham'd a4nd haw'd, and
stammered out: "I hope you '11 pardon a stranger for
intrudiii' on you ?" "No intrusion at all," says she;
"every body 's welcome to the minister's house." So
then, I felt relieved, and says I: "I come from Scrab-
ble Hill to visit a relation o' mine that lives here; and
I 'ye happened to come just in the midst o' the muss
they 'ye kicked up about that piece they 're a layin'
to you. I know all the folks that it tells about."


342   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

VISIT TO SLABTOWN.         848

"You do ?" says she. "And do you know Aarnt
Magwire ?"
I riz up, and makin'~as good a church as I know'd
how, says I: "I 'in that individdiwal, at yer service."
"Indeed," says she, comm' up to me and shaking'
hands with me; "well, I 'in very glad to see you
tb~ough you have got me into a muss."
"0 dear me," says I, "I hope you don't think I
know'd that story was a gwine to travel to Slabtown,
when I told it to Mr. Godey ?"
"Law, no," says she; "don't~give yourself the least
trouble about it; you ain't a bit to blame."
"Well, I 'm glad you feel so," says I; "but ain't it
curus that the Slabtown folks should take it all to
themselves as they dew ?"
"Not at all," says she; "human natur 's the same
every where."
"1 guess so," says I. "Any how, your Sewin.'
Society must be wonderfully like our 'n, or they
wouldent be so determined it means them; but what
hurts my feeling's is, that you should have to suffer
for 't. I was so distress when I heerd they was a lay.
in' on 't to you, and usin' on 't to in yer husband,
that I felt as if I must come right over and see you,
though you was a stranger. If any body 's to blame,
I 'in willing' to bear it."
"0 ne," says she, "don't you fret yourself a bit
about it. If people choose to fit your coats to their

own backs, 't ain't your fault; and if they fit nice and
snug, perhaps they 'II do as good service as if they
were made expressly for ~"
"Jest so," says I. "But it does seem tew bad that
you sh~iild suffer for 't. Ain't ther no way o' putting'
a stop tew it?"
"Never you mind," says she; "we minister's folks
must have our trials, of one sort or another, where-
ever we go. If we hadent this perhaps we should
have something' still worse."
"But," says I," what if they should drive you away
from here ?"
She smiled, and dident say nothing .
"Well," says I, "to judge from what I've seen o'
Slabtown since I come here, I 'm bold to say that, if
they do chive you awa~r, they can't possibly drive you
to a worse place."
"Hush, Aunt Magwire," says she, "human natur s
the same every where; we must expect trouble
wherever we go. I feel prepared for almost any
thing."
"Yes," says I, "I s'pose you feel a good &amp;eal as
that fox in the story did, when them miserable insects
was a bitin' him. 'Let 'em alone,' says he; 'for if
you drive ~em away ther '11 come a hungrier swarm.~~,
Well, ~that was the amount of our conversation.
The minister's wife was very polite to me, and I in
vited her to call on me if ever she- come through


844   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

Scrabble Hill. Sh~ said she would, and hoped we
should git better s~quainted.
I come away a few days after that, and I rather
guess it '11 be a good while afore I go a visitin' to
Slabtown agin'. The place is tew awful ginteel to suit                         XXVIII.
my taste.
JJE 'S a mortal teaze, husband is. He
joke about as well as any man I eve
he 's always good-natured, ain't no malice
his capers. He was a beetle wicked though
are cider hoax he played off on Deacon ~
Deacon Bedott. See~-did you ever hear
Well, I'll tell you, for I think 't was one C
tricks he ever come. But in the first plac
know what sort o' a man Deacon Whip
else you won't sense the joke. Well, acco:
notion, he was about as contemptible a spc
m~n as ever walked shoe-leather. I alwa
so and so did husband, though ther was a
folks in Wiggletown looked upon him as c
tion, 'catise he had so much sanctimony.
from Meddleville to oin' town, and he was
Liii pious, and made such an awful parade c
ion, pray~n' and exortin' and laboring' for
called it, that when he 'd ben there about th:
they made him deacon. As soon as he wa~
16*

i~Le.
does like a
r see. But
at heart in
about that
rhipple and
about that?
)' the cutest
e you must
ple was, or
rdin' to my
~cimen of a
ys thought
good many
lear perfec-
He come
so wonder.
)f his relig.
souls, as he
~ee months
iproftoted,


846~     WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
he begun meddling' in every bo~ ly's bigness the worst
way, watching' all the naborhood, and takin' on 'em to
dew for every little thing that didn't happen to come
come up to his idees o' duty. This he called "consarn
for the welfaiie o' Zion." As sure as ther was a
party.o' young folks, there was Deacon Whipple's long
nose poked into some o' the wonders to pry out what
was done. And if ther was an church members
among 'em, and they happened to play "Button-but.
ton I whose got the button ?" or dans~ round a little,
he 'd have 'em hauled up before the session to anser
for 't. It seemed to dew him a deal o' good to ketch
any o' the brethren or sisters a tripping~ . A body 'd a
thought he spent 1~he heft of his time a pryin' into
other folks' bizness, but some how or other he man-
aged to take care of his own tew; he was a tailor by
trade, and a regular old cabbagin' skinflint to boot.
That reminds me o' what Jo Snyder said to him once.
You see he was an awful stingy critter, and so was
Miss Whipple. The prenticee~ used to complain dret-
fully o' ther livin'-said they was nigh about starved.
Well, Jo Snyder he stuck his head into the shop win-
der one day and says he (Jo was an independent crit-
ter), says he, "Deacon, how comes it you starve yer
'printices so, when you 're always so flush o' cabbage ?"
The deacon was awful mad. Says he to Jo, "If you
was professor you 'd ketch it." He wa~ a monstrous
mean-~oks~n' man tew. You 'd a know'd. to see him in

DEA   ON WIIIPPLE.            847
the street that he was contracted critter-~had a stin*
gy kind of a walk-went along as if he begrudged
the room he took up. The circumstance I was a
gwine to tell took place when he 'd ben deacon only
a little risin' tew year-and it 's a sollem fact, ther 'd
ben more cases o' deseplyne in that short time than
ther ever was afore sense the place was settled. Now
Deacon Bedott wa'n't such a man at all. He was
great on praying' and exortin', but he dident meddle in
his nabors' Qonsarns, nor think himself so much pious.
er and better 'n ~ll the rest o' creation. Well, the next
fall arter we come~ away from Wiggletown, husband
and me went out there a visiting . You see N~other
Poole and Mother Magwire both lived there, and Sis.
ter Beddtt tew, and I spent the time visiting' round
from one to t' other. Well, one evening' I was to Sis-
ter Bedott's-husband had gone ove~ to Mother Ma-
gwire's. 'T was about a year afore Deacon Bedott
died, and he wasn't very well-you know he was fee.
.ble a number o' years afore his death. Well, he and
Sister Silly and me was a setting' round the settin'-rooni
fire, and Artemishy Pike-the Widder~N~e's oldest
darter-she was a spending' the evening' the~e. Axte.
mishy was jest a tellin' us about Deacon Whipple's
comm' to thair house the day afore to take Cinthy
(her youngest sister) to dew, 'cause he 'd heerd how 't
she tendedd a ball when she was over to Yarmount a
~isitin'; and Artemishy was in an awful fidgit about


848   WIDOW B~DOTT PAPERS.

849

it,' for fear he 'd have her hauled up for 't, and she
wanted Deacon Bedott to try to prevent it. Well, she
was just a tellin' about it when ther come a knock to
the door.' "Walk in," says Sister Bedott-.a~id who
should walk in but Deacon Whipple, with Deacon
Kenipe and Deacon Crosby on behind him I "There,"
says I to Artemishy, "the Old One 's always at hand
when you 're talking' about him." "Hush !" says she.
"Lawful sakes I" says I; "I ain't afeard o' bein' haul.
ed up-I dou't live here." When they come in, Ar.
temishy looked half.skairt to death,~, She thought
they 'd come to talk about dealing' with Cinthy, but Sis.
ter Bedott whispered tew her, and says she, "Don't
be afeard; I don't bleve it 's Cinthy. I guess more
likely it 's Sue Collins." ('T was the same time they
had her over the coals.) Whatever 't was, we all
know'd 't was purty important bizuess, for Deacon
Whipple lookt wonderful big and awful sollem: his
face was about half a yard long. Bn.t though he tried
to appear as if he' felt dretful bad, 't was plain 'to be
seen he was enjoyin' a state of internal satisfaction-
lookt jest as he always did when he got hold of a case
that suite~ him to a T. But Deacon Kenipe and flea.
con Crosb~y lookt as if they raly felt ,b~d. (They was
very clever men indeed.) They didn't say a word, but
Deacon Whipple he convarsed a spell about matters
and things in general, said the weather was onconimon
~z~e for the season o' year, crops were wonderfaJ

DEACON WHIPPIJE.

abundant, 'specially the apple crop-though 't was to
be lamented that any o' the good critters o' Providence
should be abused and turned to the ruination o' man-
kind as apples was by bein' made into cider. Then.
he went on to deplore the low state o' religion in the
place, axed us wimn4n folks about the state of-our
minds a~d so on, and then said they 'd come on pri-
vate bigness and would like to see Deacon Bedott
alone a spell. So we three wimmin got up and went
into the kitchen. "Now," says Sister Bed ott, says
she, "I feel ~ ff1 'd like to know what they 'ye come
for-wouldent you ?" "Yes," says we. "Well,
theiTi," says Silly, "let 's go into the buttery and listen."
"Agreed," says we. So in we went. You see ther
was a passage between the settin'.room and the kitch-
en, and on one side o' this passage the buttery was ~t-
tiwated; and ther was a do6r leading' from the buttery
into the settin'-room, and atop o' this door ther was an
awful 'wide crack, so 't a body could hear every word
that was said in the settin'-room there. Well, in we
goes~as still as mice. Artemishy and me we got up
on an old box 'and peeped though the crack, and Sis-
ter Bedott she put her e~r to the keyhole. Deacon
Whipple had begun to talk afore we got fixed. The
first thing I heerd him say, says he, "It 's very en-
pleasant bizness, very indeed. I assure you it 's very
tryin' to~y feelings to be necessiated to rebuke a bro.
tlaer, but it seoms to be an insurmountable duLty in

848


350    WIDOW BEDOTT PAI~,ERS.                            DEACON WHIPPIJE.        851

this case. We 'te all poor errin' critters; the best on
us is liable to go astray and fail in our duty. I 'm free
to ~confess that even I have my shorteomins "-I guess
he had an attack on 't when he cut husband's panta-
loons; they was so short and so tight he had to give
'em to Jeff-~" I have my shoitcomins, and I feel to
mourn for 't; I feel to lament that I 'm fra4uently
cold and slack in dewin' my duty.-don't keep such a
constant watch round the walls o' Zion as I 'd ought
tew. I feel as if it may be owin' to my onfaithfulness
Brother Bedott, that you 'ye fell into the practice o'
such a hyneous offence-ahem " "Gosh!" says
Deacon J3edott, says he-(now Deacon Bedott n~ver
used bad language in his lifobut once in a while when
lie was dretfully took by surprise he used to say
"gosh !")-." Gosh," says he, "I want to know if you
was a meaning' me all this time? Well, I 'd like to
know what I've ben a dewin'?". "0 dear," says Sil-
ly, says she, "it 's husband, it 's husband! What has
he done-what has he done ?" "Don't make a fuss,"
says I; "they 'II hear you, and we shall have to~clear
out." Deacon Bedott went on; "I ain't aware o' bein'
in the practice of any known sin. If I 'ye done
wrongin any way I 'm willing' to be told on 't, and I hope
I shall take your rebuke as I 'd ought tew-though as
I said afore I ain't aware o' bein' in the practice of
any hyn~ous offense, as you call it." Says Deacon
Whipple, says he, with a rael provokin' grin, "I 'm
4)

'raly sorry you 're so dull of apprehension, Brother Be-
dott. it 's truly lamentable, when a brother, that 's ben
apparently a burning' and shining' light, turns out to be
such a greevious transgresser-when sinners round is in
such perishin' need o' havin' good examples sot afore
'em, to make 'em cast down the weapons 0' rebellion.
And it 's still woss, when such a backsliding' brother is
reasoned with, to see him refuse to confess his faults,
and repent of his sins and mend his ways.~~ "Dew
tell me," says Deacon Bedott, says he, "what the sin
is, and if I 'ye raly been guilty on 't, I'll repent, and
confess, and forsake it tew." "I' m sorry to see you
so obderre~t," says Deacon Whipple, says he. "You
know, Scripter says, if a brother is overtook in a fault,
the brother must go tew~ him and tell him on 't-~~-and
if he refutses to, hear 'em, why, he must be dealt with
afore the congregation;' and I 'm afeard that 's what
you 'II have to come tew, Brother Bedott, if you hold
out 50.'~ ~'O misery me!" says Silly, says she, "What
has that man ben a dewin! what has he ben a dewin!
0 dear me! what an onfortunit woman I be !" "Sil-
ly," says I," 'why can't you shet yer head? Take
my word for 't, he hadn't done nothin'-it '11 turn out,
to be jest nothing' at, all, I'll bet a ~ooseso dew be
easy." Well, arter Deacon Whipple had gone on so
for ever~ so long, Deacon Bedott got clear out o'
patience land says he, "For massy's s#e, what is it?
Brother Kenipe, Brother Crosby, dew tell me what


WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

DEACON WHIPPIJE.

't is." "I 'd rather not," says Deacon Kenipe, says he,
"Brother Whipple begun, and he ought to finish."
"I say so tew," says Deacon Crosby. "Why," saps
Deacon Whipple, "it 's curus that Brother Bedott
should be so onwillin' to own up,' without my comm'
right out." "0! dear me, suz !" says Sister Bedott,
"that he should be a cutting' capers, and me never sus-
pect him on 't! 0 Melissy, I[ shall die / I shall die !"
and she begun wringing' her hands like mad. "You
simple critter," says I, "dew save yer highsteerics till
there 's occasion for 'em; dew keep still, they '11 hear
you, sartin sure, and if they should ketch us a listening ,
't would ruin all our three repertations." On account
o' Silly's interruption, we lost what Deacon ~W~hipple
said. next-and the first 'lhing we heerd arter she got
quiet agin, was Deacon Bedott sayin' "It 's curus you
should be so willing' to believe such a story about me,
when you 'ye know'd me some years, and hadn't never
heerd nothing' o' the kind till now." "I for one wasn't
willing" to believe it," says Deacon Kenipe; "nor I
another " says Deacon Crosby, says7 h~. "Now, ther
ain't no use in denying' on 't, Brother Bedott," says
Deacon Whipple, says he-." A few years ago, 't wa'n't
thought to be no great crime, to take a ~lass o' sperrits
now and then; ther wa n light on the sub-
ject as ther is now in these re temperance days ;- but,
even then, 't was eny most an onheerd-of thing for
auy body, ~o git intostioated on eider-as you're iii a

habit o' dewin' now against light and privelidge-and
you a deacon tevv-a man that makes such high pre..
tensions. 0 Brother Bedott I it 's a hyneous and a
cryin' sin." "Consarn it I" says Deacon Bedott, says
he, "dew stop a minnit and let one speak; I want to
know, who said I was in a habit o' takin' tew much."
"Whoever 't was," says Silly, says she, "they lied,
and They know'd it, and I '11 tell Deacon Whipple so-
lemme come, Melissy." (lit always made Silly awful
mad to have anybody else run the deacon down,
though she used to give it tew him herself; like the
dragon sometimes.) "Woman alive," says I, "what
be you dewin! you shan't go out there-you '11 jest
spile the hull-and we shan't hear another word-
it '11 be time enough for you to put in bymeby." She
made such a noise, they 'd a heerd her, if they hadent
a got to talking' purty loud themselves. Well, she got
still; and the next thing I heerd was Deacon Kenipe
sayin', says he, "Brother Whipple, dew come to the
pint; dew tell Brother Bedott, who 't was-and don't
hurt his feelings any niore 'n you ~an help." "Well,
then,~ says Deacon Whipple, says he, "'t was yer
brother-in-law, Mr. Magwire." "Gracious sakes
alive 1" says Deacon Bedott, says he, "did Josh say
that about me? What on arth did the critter mean?"
"He meant what he said, I s'pose," says Deacon
Whipple, "that you 're in a habit o' gittin' corned on
cider." Says Deacon Bedott, says he, "Did Josh say

852

*

858


354    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                          DEACON WHIPI'LE.       85~

he 'd actilly seen~ me drunk on cider ?" "ile meant
so, undoubtedly," says Deacon Whipple; "tho' them
wasn't recipee&amp; the words he used; he called to my
shop to-day a purpose to tell me on 't, said 't was
awful tryin' to his feeling, to be obleeged to expose
you, not only on account o' your bein' a connection o'
hisen, but 'cause he raly thought you was a worthy
man in the main; 'but,' says he, 'I dew feel as if II
couldent leave Wiggletown with a clear conshence,
without tellin' you that I 'ye actilly know'd Deacon
I3edott to be the woss for cider !-as true as my name's
Joshuway Magwire, I 'ye seen that man half shaved
on cider afore breakfast in the morning. ' Now, though
I hadn't no very high opinion o' Mr. Magwire, bein'
he 's a worldly man, and. don't know nothing' about
experimental religion, I dew b'leve, ~he wouldn't tell
such a thing as that right out and out, if 't wasn't
true, 'specially about his brother-in-law. I should a
went right over to Parson Potter about it, if he 'd ben
to hum, but he 's gone a journey, you know. 0, how
that man will take it to heart, when he hears ther 's
such a wolf in sheep's clothing' in the midst o'his flock!
So IL goes over and tells Brother Kenipe and Brother
Crosby on 'to They was very onwillin' to come over
with me to labor with you to-night. I 'm sorry to
say, they 're generally slack about dewin' their duty
iii cases o' deseplyne-the heft on 't comes on to me,
and I 'in thankful I 'm always ready ~o lift a warning'

voice in sinners' ears, and dew my endeever to reclaim
backsliders, and my exartions has been blest beyond
my most sanguinary expectations. I hadn't expected
much help from yQu On. account 0' yer poor health;
and I feel to rejoice now, that you hadn't ben active
sence you 'ye turned out to be such a layneous trans~
gressor-0, Brother Bedott! if you 're half shaved on
cider afore breakfast, what must be ~yer condition afore
night! purty well upsot I should think." Deacon
Bedott didn't say a word; he said afterward he
thought he 'd let Brother Whipple go on, and see how
much he would say. After a minnit Deacon Whipple
begun agin' and says he, "Dew you still continue to
deny it?" Deacon Bedott never opened his head.
"Well," says Deacon Whipple, says he, "silence gives
consent; so, I s'pose you don't mean to hold out no
longer, and say 't ain't a factc Well 't ain't tew late to
repent and reform yet. I hope~ you 'll make up yer
mind, to come forrarci next Sabberday, and confess
yer besettin' sin afore the congregation; and mabby'~
you '11 go to the temperance meeting' next Saturday
night, if you 'r able to git out, and give an account o'
yer experience in drinkin'-reformed ineebrits does a
mense ~ight of good tellin' the partickler circuin.-
stances tending ' their downfall and reformation-and,
IL should think your experience would have an atten-.
dancy to be useful as a warning' to inoderit drinkers-.
by showing' on 'em what ~they 'ye got to come tew, if

854

855


856   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

they~ain't nipt in the bud. If you don't consent to
d~w any or both o' these, why, we '11 have to deal with
you, that 's all. We don't want to expose you no
more 'n what 's necessary. I hain't said a word about
it to nobody, but jest my wife. What dew you say
to confession? laffin hey !" (You see, Deacon Bedott
begun to grin.) "0, Brother Bedott, what a tremen.
juous sinner~ you be! not only to refuse to confess yer
inickiti~s, but laff at 'em! Dew you still container
to deny it ?" Jest then, husband bust into the room;
and Jo Snyder and Shubal Green and Mr. Smith and
Doctor Pike (Artemishy's brother), and Sam Collins
(Jue's brother-~..they 'd followed the session to the
house, and ben a listening' to the door ever sence.
Husband, he went straight up to Deacon Bedott and
shook his fist in his face, and says he, "Deny it if you
darst afore me !-dident I see you half shaved on
cider this very morning ? didn't I empby~ the water out
o' yer shaving' cup onbeknown to nobody, while it was
a heating ? and didn't I fill it up with some o' Silly's
sweet cider she 'd got, to make sass on? 'and was n't I
a setting' by when you took it off the stove? and
was n't I a looking' on, when you had such a dretful
time a tryin' to make yer lather? and didn't I see
you scrape and saw away at your face till the blood
run? and didn't I see you throw down yer razor at
last, and declare the old dragon was in it! and was n't
you jest about half shaved then? say I and didn't I

DEACON WHIPPLE.     857

bust out a laflin then, 3and tell you ~t was the fus# time
I ever see. you the woss for cider ?.-deny it, if you
darst." "I plead guilty," says Deacon Bedott, says
he. Then we wimmin folks bust out o' the buttry
into the setting' room; audi ther was such a general
roaring' and laffin' as I never heerd afore nor sence.
Deacon Kenipe and Deacon Crosby got up and shook
hands with Deacon ]3edott and axed his pardon' for
comm' over there to take him to dew-and Deacon
Beclott, he told 'em, they wasn't to blame at all-and
Silly, she was so tickled; she lafft one minni, and
cried the next, and eny most went into high eerics:
and Artemishy, she laffed, and Mr. Magwire and the
men folks they hollered; and you never seen such a,
time as ther was. Deacon Bedott was a very kind.
hearted man, and 'thought they was a most tew
hard on Deacon Whipple, so he turned round to apol-
igize to him, and lo and behold! lie 'd took advantage
o' the commotion and slipt out. But though Deacon
Bedott tried to look sober, and told husband 't was tew
bad to play off such a joke-'t was plain to be seen he
wa'n't sorry to see Deacon Whipple come up with.
Poor Deacon Whipple! 't'was a humbling' stroke tew
him-every body was. throwing' on 't in his face-he
couldent go no~~he~ but what that eider was throw'd
in his face~. And Miss Whipple tew-~she felt awful
mean about it-~-.you see she 'd ben all round t1~e na-
borhood a tellin' that Deacon Bedott was a drinking'

I


358    winow BEDOTT PAPEhIS.

mans But it cured Deacon Whipple of hi~ consarn ~,
for the welfare o' Ziom; he never made another com-
plaint agiust nobody while he lived there; and about
six months afterward, he moved away from Wiggle-
town.                                                                    XXIX.
UR. John Darling, a worthy and intelligent me-
chanic, who lias been, for two years past, a resi.
dent of our town, was somewhat surprised and consid-
erably gratified one day last fall, at receiving an invi-
tation to dine with Colonel Phulpot, one of the aristoc-
Mr. Darling enjoys that respect in our community
which mechanical ingenuity and integrity united are
always sure t&amp; command every where. These quali-
ties, and a more than ordinary degree of information,
acquired by the employment of much of his leisure
time in reading, ~ave given him an almost unbounded
influence among his own class.
Though the invitation to Colonel P.'s created some
surprise in his mind, he felt more disposed to be pleas.
ed at the honor than to question the motives which
prompted it; for his nature is wholly free from sus-
picion and the petty feeling of jealousy which those in
his station sometirne8 indulge toward the "upper ten"


360      WIDOW    BEDOTT PAPERS.
--feelings with which, we are sorry to say, the bosom
of his better half was frequently agitated..
"We have been neighbors for some time, Mr. Dar-
'ling," said Colonel Philpot; "it is time we were better
acquainted. You. must come and dine socially with
me to-morrow. Mrs. Philpot and the children are out
of town, and I am going to have a few friends to en~
liven my solitude."
'So John Darling "saved his appetite," dressed him.
self in his best clothes, and, at the appointed hour--a
somewhat later one than his customary time for dining
--repaired to Colonel Philp@t's.
He met there several of his associates---had a "fine
time and a grand dinner "-the utmost hilarity and
good feeling prevailed; and Mr. Darling entertained*
his wife with an account of it at every meal for sever-
al weeks.
"Hester," said he one day, as they were seated at a
codfish dinner, "did you ever taste a potato pud-
ding?"
"Potato pudding! No; I never heerd of such a
thing."
"Well, I wish you could, for 't is delicious! We
had one when I dined at Colonel Philpot's."
"I wonder what you dccI n't have at Colonel Phil-
pot's," said Mrs. Darling. "I declare, I 'ni. tired hear.
ing about it."
"Well, I 'II tell you one'thing we did n't have-.we

RECIPE FOR POTATO PUDDi1~G. 381
dk~'t have codfish. But, that pudding--ZI wish you'd
learn how to make it; it was superb!",
"I presume so; and I guess, if I had half a dozen
servants at my heels, and a thorough-trained cook into
the 'bargain, I could have things superb, too. But, as
long as I have every thing to do myself and very
little to do wzth, I don't see how I 'm to get up things
in style. I wonder you can expect me to."
"I don't expect you to, Hester. You always do
things to suit my taste. But that pudding was excel.
lent; and, being made of potatoes, I thought, of course
it must be economical, and~-."
"Economical! That 's all you know about it.
What gumps men are!' I '11 warrant it had forty dif~
fervent things in it; and legs' potatoes than any thing
else. I 'm no hand to fuss up. I like plain cookery,
for my part."
"So dol, asa general thing. But then, you know,
it '5 well to have something a little better than ordina.
ry once in a while."
"Well, if' you 're not satisfied with my way of
doing things, you must hire a cook, or go and board
out." And Mrs. Darling put on her ii~jure4 1ooA~, and
remained silent during the rest of, the dinner.
But, after all, she was not an ill-natured woman
really; ai~cl, after her husband had gone to his shop,
she began to feal a little pricked in her conscience for
having been so cross at dinner. She wished she had
18


362   WIDOW BBDOTT PAPERS.

not gone on at such a rate. But, then, John had bored
her so about that dinner at Colonel Philpot~s, she was
out of patience with it. Yet what right had she to be
out of patience with John? He never was out of pa-
tience, with her, and she could but acknowledge that
he often had reason to be so. So she resolved to make
it u~ as soon as possible.
"John," said she, as she handed him a cup of tea,
I 'ye a great notion to try that potato pudding. I
believe I could make one."
"No doubt of it, Hester," said her husband; "you
can do almost any thing you try to."
"II suppose it takes butter, and su~a; and eggs, and
spices, and so forth; but I wish I knew the propor-
tions."
"It's very easy to find out all about it by calling at
Colonel ?hilpot's. He said his wife would be delight-
ed ~o get acquainted with you."
"So you 'ye told me a dozen times; but I think
that, if she wanted to get acquainted with me, she
might call upon me. She 's lived here longer than I
have, and it is n't my place to call first; and I don't
believe the colonel tells the truth when he says she
wants to get acquainted with me.~'
Well, I always think people mean as they say,
and I wish you would, too, Hester."
"But it 's very evident that she holds herself a great
deal above me. She has no reason to, certainly, for

RECIPE 1~OR POTATO PUDDING. 863
her family was n't half as respectable as mine. Mrs.
David Potter knows all about them, root and branch,
and she says that Mrs. Philpot's father kept a very low
tavern in Norridge, and Mrs. Philpot herself tended
the bar when she was a girl. But, somehow, Colonel
Philpot happened to fall in love with her, and he sent
her away to school, and then niarried her."
"Well, that 's nothing ~ainst her, is it ?"
"No, of course it would n't be, if she didn't carry
her head so high now. But it 's always the way with
such persons-th~y ndver know how to bear prosper
ity. There would n't be any thing said about her ori-
gin, if she did n't put on such airs; but, as long as
'7
she feels so lifted up, folks ~will tcdk you know.
"Perhaps you don't do her justice, Hester. You
know nothing about iier excepting what you 'ye heard.
At~any rate, it would do no harm, to call upon her."
After repeated conversations and discussions of this
sort, Mrs. Darling concluded to pay Mrs. Philpot a
visit. She could make the potato pudding an excuse,
and be governed by Mrs. P.'s reception in regard to
further intercourse. Mrs. Philpot has been, for sever-
al years past, to use her o'~Vn expression, "very unfor.
tunate in her domestics." With the exception of her
cook.'-up to the time of Mrs. Darling's call-she had
seldom knpt one above a month, and sometimes not as
long as that, This frequent change of servants was,
not so much owing to any unkindness on Mrs. Phil-


864    winow BEDOTT PAPERS.

pot's part, as to the fact that Mrs. Mudlaw, her cook
could never agree with them. This functionary had
been~ for several years, a fixture in Colonel P.'s estab-
lishment; indeed, Mrs. P. declared she could not pos-
sibly get along without her. Mrs. Mudlaw was in
fact, a good cook, and so entirely relieved that lady
from all care in that department that, rather than part
with her, she was willing to submit to her petty t~r-
anny in every thing. The cook actually "ruled the
roast" at Colonel P.'s in more than one sense. And
she did' not. often find the subalterns of the h.use-
hold as submissive to her wishes as Mrs. Philpot her-
self was. She contrived to quarrel them away in a
short time, for she had only to say to Mrs. P., "Well,
either Bridget or I must quit, so you may take your
choice ;" and the offending servant-maid was dismissed
forthwith, there being no appeal from Mrs. Mudlaw's
decision.
A. scene of this kind had just occurred when Mrs.
Darling made her visit, and a new raw Irish girl had
that morning been installed in place ~of the one dis-
charged. The duty of this girl was to answer the
door-bell, and help Mrs. Mudlaw. In fact, the hard-
est and most disagreeable of the kitchen-worJc came
upon her. When Mrs. Darling rang, Mrs. Philpot
was in the kitchen giving instructions to Peggy, or
rather acquiescing in those which Mrs. Mudlaw was
laying down.

RECIPE FOR POTATO PUD])ING. 365
"There goes the bell," said that important person-
age,'and AIrs. Philpot hastened to an upper window to
~ee who it was. Having satisfied herself; she came
back and toll Peggy to go and admit the lady./
"Why don't you start, you?" said Mrs. Mudlaw.
"Well, what '11 I do now ?" said Peggy, whirling
round in that bewildered wa~r peculiar to Irish girls.
"Do U' roared Mudlaw. "Don't you know nothing ?
Hain't we jest been tellin' ye 't was your duty to tend
to the door-bell? Run to the front door and let 'em
in, and show 'em into the drawin'-room. You know
w~ere that is, don't you ?"
"Faith, I know that," answered Peggy, and away
she ran, thanking her stars that there was at least one
thing that she knew.
"It 's no one that I know, I 'm pure," said Mrs.
Philpot, after Peggy had gone; "at least the bonnet
and shawl are not familiar to me. I presume it is
somebody I don't care about seeing."
"I should ~i't wonder," said Mudlaw. "But I
s'pose you could n't do otherways, as the curnel has
given orders that nobody ain't to be refused till after
With much confusion and toe-stubbling, the unfor-
tunate Peggy ushered Mrs. Darling into the nursery,
which w~s also Mrs. Philp6t's ordinary sitting-room.
It was directly over the kitchen, and heated by the
cooking stove by the means of a drum, or dummy, as


866   'WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

Mrs. Mudlaw called it. Every word that was said in
the kitchen could easily be heard in the nurs~y-.....
quite a convenience to Miidlaw, as it enabled her often
to comftiunicate with Mrs. Philpot without the trouble
of going up st-airs. Many an interesting account of
what sh~ did when Mr. Mudlaw was living, and how
they managed at General K.'s when she wa~ stcqfing
there, has gone up that stove-pipe.
The nursery was in a state of the greatest disorder~
as was usually the case, though the children were all
out just then. Sukey the nurse-girl, had taken the
baby out to ride, and Philip Augustus had gone with
them; and Zoe Matilda was at school. Playthings of
every description, carts, horses, dolls, as well as chil-
dren's books and clothes, were scattered about the room
in what Mrs. Darling called "awful confusion." But
she had not time for inward comments upon this state
of things, before her attention was called to the con-
versation below.
"ft 's Mrs. Darling as wishes to see you
said Peggy.
"That Mrs. Darling! Did you ever I" exclaimed
Mrs. Philpot.
"She ain7t nobody, is she ?" said Mrs. Mudlaw.
"Nobody at all. Her husband is a cabinet-maker;
but the colonel has charged it upon me to be polite to
her jest now. He wished me to call upon her ; but I
would n't condescend to. stoop so low as that, though

866

RECIPE FOR POTATO PUDDING. 367
he made me promise to treat her with attention if she
called."
"Well, I wouldn't do it, if I was you," said the
cook. "I 'd be mistress ini'ny own house any how."
"II3ut, you know, it '~ for his interest now.
says that Darling has a great deal of influence among
mechanics-can command a good many votes."
"Oh, I remember now I he 's one of them codgers
that dined here while you was aw~y, that the curnel
was a laughing' about afterward, and telling you how
awkward they handled the silver forks."
"Yes; is n't it provoking to have to be polite to
such people? Well, I shall be glad when electionn 's
over, for the colonel says I may cut them all then,
and I think it won't be long before they sink back to
their own level." And Mrs. Philpot arose with a sigh,
and ascended to the drawing-room, arranging her
features into a gracious and patronizing expression as
she went.
Mrs. Darling's feelings during this conversation
"can be better imagined than described," as the novels
would say. Her first impulse was to leave the house
without waiting for Mrs. Philpot's appearance, and she
rose and made a few steps with that intention; but,
on second thoughts, she resolved to remain, and let
her know that she only came bn an errand, and re-
sumed her seat.
When Mrs. Philpot found no one in the drawing-


868    WIDOW *BEDOTT PAPERS.                       RECIPE WOR POTATO PUDDING. ~69

room she returned to the kitchen, supposing that her
visitor had gone.
"She 's gone," said she, "without waiting for me.
She does n't know enough about good society to un-
derstand that a lady does n't make her appearance the
moment she 's called for."
"I should n't wonder if she was in the nursery all
the time," said Mudlaw; "for I heard a stepping up
there a while ago, and the children hadn't got home
yet. Where did you take her to, you ?"
"Why, I tuck her in the dhrawin'-roona, sure, as
you tould me, right overbid," said Peggy, in some
alarm.
"You blunderin' Irish gumphead! Don't you
know the drawin'.room from the nursery ?"
"Och! but I thought it was the dhrawin'-room;
for didn't I see the young master a dhra~vin' his cart,
and was n't Shukey a dhrawin' the baby about the
floor by its feet, when I went up to take the water
this morning? "
"There, I told you she was a born fool I" said Mud.
law, in a rage. "She 'II nevei know nothing-.-..she 'II
never learn nothing-.you may as well send her off
first as last."
"Hush! don't speak so loud," said Mrs. Philpot, in
a whisper. "She can hear all you say-she has heard
encaigh already. Dear me, what shall I do? The
colonel will be ~o provoked! How could you be so

dumb, Peggy? Run Tight up and take her into the
drawing-room. Stop I you need n't; you will make
some other mistake. I'll go myself."
In a state of mind not to be envied, Mrs. Philpot
hastened to the nursery. But as she entertained a
faint hope that the conversation below had not pene-
trated through Mrs. Darling's bonnet, she endeav9red
to hide her embarrassment under an affable smile, ex-
tended her hand gracefully, and drawled out a genteel
welcome to her visitor.
"Delighted to see you, Mrs. Darling; hut very
sorry you should have been brought into the nursery"
--no wonder she 's sorry, thought Mrs. IDarling-
"these raw Irish girls are so stupid I Walk into the
parlor, if you please."
"No, I thank you, Mrs. Philpot, I 'd as soon sit
here," returned Mrs. Dai~ling. "I can only stay a
moment. I called to a~k for a recipe for pqtato pud-
ding. Mr. Darling tasted one when he dined, with
Colonel Philpot, and lik~d it s~o much that he wished
me to get directions for making it."
"Potato ptidding? Ah, yes, I recollect. Mudlaw,
my cook, ~does make a very good plain thing that she
calls a potato pudding; but I know nothing about her
manner of preparing it. I will call her, however, and
she shall tell you herself." Thereupon she pulled the
bell, ahd Peggy shortly appeared, looking m~ore
f4ghtened~ and bQwild~ed than ever.
10*


870   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

"Send Mudlaw here," said Mrs. Philpot.
She would not have dared to address her "chief
cook-and bottle-washer" without the respectful title of~
.A&amp;s.; but it was rather more grand to omit it, and she
always did so when not in her hearing.
"The fnissus said I w~as to send you there," said
Peggy.
"You send me I" exclaimed the indignant cook.
"I guess when ii go for your sending, it '11 be after
this."
Mrs. Philpot, although conversing in a condescend.
ing manner with Mrs.Darling. caught something. of the
cook's reply to her summons, and asked to be excused
for a moment, saying that Peggy was so stupid, she
feared that Mudlaw might not understand her, and
she ~would go herself and send her. So she hastened
down to the kitchen, where she found the head func-
tionary standing on her dignity.
"Pretty well," said she, "if I am to be ordered
round by an Irish scullion I"
* "Mrs. Mudlaw, step here a moment, if you please,"
said Mrs. Philpot meekly, Opening the door of an ad-
joining room.
The offended lady vouchsafed to comply with the
request, and with a stern aspect, entered the roora
with Mrs, Philpot. The latter closed the door for fear
of being heard overhead, and began-~--
"What do you think, Mrs. Mndlaw? That Mrs.

RECIPE FOR POTATO PUDDING. 371
Darling has come to learn how to make potato pud-
ding, and you'll have to go up and tell her."
"I sha'n't do it. I make it a point never to give
my recipes to nobody."
"I know it; and, I 'm sure I don't blame you.
But, in this case-just now-I really don't see how
we can refuse."
"Well, I sha'n't do it, and that 's the hull on
"Oh, do, Mrs. Mudlaw, just this once. Th&amp; colo-
nel is so anxious to secure Darling, and he will be so
angry if we offend them in ~any way."
"But he needent know it, need he ?"
He certainly will find it out by some means. I
know it is real vexatious to you, and. I would n't ask
it if election was over; and now 't is very important
-it may save us ~121 trouble. The colonel is so de-
cided you know."
The~e last words of Mrs. Philpot had an effect
upon Mudlaw which no wish or ~entreaty of that lady
would have ever produced, for they suggested to ~her
semsh mind the possibility of a dismissal from her
snug birth ~at Colonel P.'s, where she canned it with a
high hand; so she gave in.
"Well, jest to please you and the curnel, I 'll do it;
but I wish electionn was over.
Mrs. Philpot returned to the nursery, and Mrs.
Mudlaw took off hpr apron, changed her ~ap for one
trimmed with pink ribbons and blue roses, gave uu-


872.  WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

merous orders to Peggy, and followed. She was a
short, fat woman, with a broad red face-such a per.
son as a stranger would call the very personification
of good nature; ,though I have never found fat people
to be any more amiable than lean ones. Certainly,
Mrs. Mudlaw was not a very sweet tempered woman.
On this occasion, she felt rather more cross than usual,
forced, as she was, to give one of her recipes to a no-
body. She, however, knew the necessity of assuming
a pleasant demeanor at that time, and accordingly en.
tered the -
Ziursery with an encouraging grin on her
blazing countenance. Mrs. PhilpQt, fearing lest her
cook's familiarity might belittle her mistress in the
,eyes of Mrs. Darling, and again asking to be excused
for a short time, went into the library, a nondescript
appartrnent, dignified by that name, which ~communi-
cated with th~ nursery. The moment she left her seat,
a large rocking-chair, Mudlaw dumped herself down
it,, exclaiming-..
"Miss Philpot says you want to get my recipe for
potter pudding' ?"
"Yes," replied Mrs. Darling. "I would be obliged
to you for the directions." And she took out of her
pocket a pencil and paper to write it down.
"Well, 't is an excellent pudding, " said Mudlaw,
complacently; "for my part, I like it about as well as
any pudding' I make, and that 's sayin' a good deal, I
can te]~ yOU, for I understand makid a ~cat variety.

'I

RECIPE FOR POTATO PUDDING. 878
'T ain't so, awful rich as some, to be sure. Now,
there's the Cardinelle puddin', and4i~ Washington
pudding , and the Lay Fayette pudclin', and. the-2'
"Yes. Mr. Darling liked it very much-how do
you make it?"
"Wal, I peel my potters and bile 'em in fair water.
I always let the water bile before I put 'em in. Some
folks let their potters lie and sog in the water ever so
long, before it hues; but I think it spies 'em. I ak
ways make it a pint to have the water bile-"
"flow many potatoes?"
"Wal, I always take about as many potters as I
think I shall want. I 'm generally governed by the
size o' the pudding' I want to. make. If it 's a large~
pudding , why I take quite a number, hut if it 's a small
one, why, then I don't take as many. As quick as
they 're done, I take 'em up and mash 'em as fine as I
can get 'em. I 'm always very partio'lar .about that-.
some folks ain't; they 'II let their potters be full o'
lumps. I never do; if there 's any thing I hate, it 's
lumps in potters. I won't have 'em. Whether I 'm
mashin' potater8 for pudding's or for vegetable use, I
mash it till there ain't the size of a lump in it. If I
can't git it fine without sifting, why I sift it. Once in
a while, when I 'm otherways engaged, I set the girl
to mashing' on 't. Wal, she '11 give it three or four
jams, ~nd come along, 'Miss Mudlaw, is the potterr
fine enough?' Jubiter ~ammin! that 's th~ time I

t


374   WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

come as near gittin' mad as I ever allow~myself to
come, for I make it a pint never to have lumps-"
"Yes, I know it is very important. What next ?"
"Wal, then I put in my butter; in winter time I
melt it a little, not enough to make it ily, but jest so
to soften it."
"How much butter does it require ?"
"Wal I always take butter according' 'to th~siz~ of
the pudding ; a large pudding' needs a good sized lump
o' butter, but not too much. And I 'm always partic'-
lar to have my butter fresh and sweet, Some folks
think it 's no matter what sort o' butter they use for
cooking , but.Idon't. Of all things, I do despise strong
frowy, rancid bi~tter. For pity's sake have your but-
~ter fresh."
"How mu9h butter, did you say ?"
"Wal, that depends, as I said before, on what sized
pudding' you want to make. And another thing that
regulates the quality of butter 'I use is the 'mount o'
cream I take. I always put in more or less cream;
when I have abundance o' cream, I put in considerable
and when it 's scarce, why, I use more butter than I
otherways should. But you must be particular not to
get in too much cream. There 's a great deal in hay-
in' jest the right quantity; and so 'tis with all the in-
grejiences. There ain't a better puddin' in the world
than a potato puddin', when it 's made r~gh4 but 't am 't
'every body that makes 'em right. remember when

874

RECIPE FOR POTATO PUDDING. 375
I lived in Tuckertown, I was a visiting' to Squire Hum-
prey's one time-I went in the flrst company in Tuck-
ertown-dear me! this is a changeable world. Wal,
they had what they called a potato pudding' for dinner,
Good land! Of' all the pucidins! I 'ye often occur-
ed to that* pudding' since, and wondered what the
Squire's wife was a thinking' of. when she'made it. I
wa 'n t obleeged to do no such things in them days,
and didep.t know how to do any thing as well as I do
now. Necessity 's the mother of invention. Experi-
ence is the best teacher, after all-"
"Do you sweeten it ?"
"Oh, yes, to be sure it needs sugar, the best o'
sugar, too; not this wet, soggy, brown sugar. Some
klks never think o' usin' good sugar to cook with, but
- for my part I won't have no other."
"How much sugar do you take ?"
"Wal, that depends altogether on whether you cal'
culate to have sass for it-some like sass, you know,
and then some agin don't. So, when I calculate for
sass, I don't take so much sugar; and when I don 't
calculate for sass,. I make it sweet enough to ,eat with-
out sass. Poor Mr. Mudlaw was a great hand for
puddin'sass. I always made it for hixn-good, rich
sass too. I could afford to have things rich before he
was utifortinate in bizness." (Mucilaw went to State's
prison for hor~e-steallng.) "I like sass myself; too;
and the cu.rnel and the children are all great sass

I


376    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS..

hands; and so I generally calculate for sas4hough
Miss Philpot prefers the puddiu' without sass, and per..
haps you 'd prefer it without. If so you must put in
sugar accordingly. I always mal~e it a pint to have
em sweet enough when they 're to be eat without
sass."
"And don't you use eggs ?"
"Certainly, eggs is one o' the principal ingreji.
ences."
"How many does it require ?"
"Wal, when eggs is plenty, I always use plenty;
and when they 're scarce, why I can do with less,
though I 'd rather have enough; and be sure and beat
'em well. It does distress me, th? way some folks
beat eggs. I always want to have 'em thoroughly
beat for every thing I use 'em in. It tries my patience
most awfully to have any body round me that won't
beat eggs enough. A spell ago we had a darkey to
help in the kitchen. One day I was a makin' sponge
cake, and havin' occasion to go up stairs after some*
thing, I sot her to beating' the eggs. Wa], what do
you think the critter done? Why, she whisked 'em
round a few times, and turned 'em right onto the
other ingrejiences~that I 'd got weighed out. When I
come back and saw what she 'd done, my gracious! I
came as nigh to losin' my temper as I ever allow my-
self to come. 'T was awful provokin' I I always
~v'aut the ~itohen help to do things as I warLt to hav~o

RECIPE FOIL POTATO PUDDING. 877
'em done. But I never saw a darkey yet that ever
done any thing right. They 're a lazy slaughtering'
set. To think o' her spilin' that cake so, when I 'd.
told her over and over agin that I always made it a
pint to have my eggs thoroughly beat !"
"Yes, it was too bad. Do you use fruit in the pud.
ding?"
"Wal, that 's jest as~ you please. You 'd better be
governed by your own judgment as to that. Some
like currants and some like raisins, and then agin some
d6n't like nary one. If you use raisins, for pity's
sake pick out the stuns. It 's awful to have a body's
teeth come grinding' onto a raisin stun. I 'd rather
have my ears boxt any time."
"How many raisins must I take ?"
"Wal not too many.-it '5 apt to make the pudding'
heavy, you know; and when it 's heavy it ain't so
light and good. I 'm a great hand~-"
"Yes, what do you use for flavoring ?"
"There agin you '11 have to exercise your own
judgment. Some likes one thing, and some another
you know. If you. go the whole bigger on temperance,
why some other kind o' flavyrin' 'II do as well as wine
or brandy, I s'pose. But whatever you make up your
mind to use, be particular to git in a sufficiency, or
else your pudding' '11 be flat. II always make it a
pint--~"
"How ~ong must it bake?"

876


*

878

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

"There 's the great thing after all. The baking's the
main pint. A potter puddin', of all puddins, has got
to be baked jest right. For if it bakes a leetle too
much, it 's apt to dry it up; and then agin if it don't
bake quite enough, it 's sure to taste potatery-and
that piles it, you know."
"How long should you think ?"
"Wal, that depends a good deal on the heat o' your
oven. If you have a very hot oven, 't won't do 4o
leave it in too long; and if your oven ain't so very
hot, why, you 'II be necessiated to leave it in longer."
"Well, how can I tell any thing about it ?"
"Well, I always let them bake till I think they 're
done-that 's the safest way. I make it a pint to have
'em baked exactly right. It 's very important in all
kinds o' bakin'-cake, pies, bread, puddings, and
every thing-to have 'em baked prec~se1y long enough
and jest right. Some folks don't seem to have no sys-
tem at all about their bakin'. One time they '11 burn
their bread to a crisp, and then agin it '11 be so slack
- 't ain't fit I~o eat. Nothing' hurts my feelings so much
as to see things overdone or slack-baked. Here only
t' other day, Lorry, the girl that Miss Philpot dis-
missed yesterday, come within an ace o' letting my
bread burn up. My back was turned for a minnit,
a~id what should she do but go to stuffing' wood into the
stove at the awfullest rate? If I hadent a found it
out jest when I did, my bread would a ben spilt as

RECIPE ~FOR POTATO PUDDII~G. 379
sure as I 'm a live woman. Jiibiter Rammin! I was
about as much decomposed as I ever alloW myself to
git'!. I told Miss Philpqt I wouldent stan' it no longer
-one of us must quit-either Lorry or me must
walk."
"So you 'ye no rule about baking this pudding ?"
"No rule I" said Mudlaw, with a look of intense
surprise.
"Yes," said Mrs. ]2~arlin~g, "you seem to have no
rule for any thing about it."
"No rule 1" screamed the indignant cook, starting
up, while her red face grew ten times redder, and her
little black eyes snapped with rage. "No rules 1" and
she planted herself in front of Mrs. Darling, erecting
her fleshy figure to its full hight of majestic dumpi-
ness, and extending the forefinger of her right hand
tili it reached an alarming propinquity t~o that lady's'
nose. "No rules! do you tell me I've no rules! Me!
that 's cooked in the first families for fifteen years, and
always gi'n satisfaction, to be told by such as you that
I ain'tt no rule&amp;!" -
Thus far had Mudlaw proc,~6ded, and I know not
to what length she would ha " slowed herself" to
go, had not the sudden entrance of Colonel Philpot
interrupted her. He being a persq~ of whom she
stood somewhat in awe, particularly "jest at this t~ime,"
she broke off in the midst of her tirade, and, casting a
look of ineffable disgust at Mrs. Darling, retreated to

I


880

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

her own dominions to vent her fury upon poor Peggy,
who had done every thing wrong during her ab.
sence.
While Colonel Philpot was expressing his extreme
satisfaction at seeing Mrs. Darling, Mrs. Philpot
emerged from the library, where she had been shak-
ing in her shoes during the interview between that
lady and Mudlaw.
"Matilda, my dear," said the colonel, "this is quite
an unexpected pleasure, for really Mrs. Darling, we
began to fear that you did not intend to cultivate
us."
"I did not come for that purpose," replied Mrs. Dar-
ling, who, now that she saw through Colonel. Philpot,
despised him thoroughly, and was not afraid to let
him know it, notwithstanding he belonged to ~the aris-,
tocracy of our town. "I came on an errand; and
your cook has got very angry with me for some reason,
I scarcely know what."
"Poor Mudlaw," said Mrs. Philpot, anxious to
screen her main stay from the ,colonel's displeasure,
yet feeling the necessity of some apology to Mrs. Dar-
ling. "Poor Mudlaw! II don't think she intended to
be rude"'
"What! has the cook been rude to Mrs. Darling ?"
exclaimed Colonel Philpot.
"Not rude, exactly, dear; but you know she is so
sensitive about every thing connected with. her depart-
9

l~ECIPE POlL POTATO PtTDDING. 881
ment, and site fancied that Mrs. Darling called her
skill into question, and became somewhat excited."
"Quite excited, I should call it," said Mrs. D. with
a smile.
"And she has dared to treat Mrs. Darling rudely~"
said Colonel P., apparently much agitated. "Shame.
ful! disgraceful! the wretch shall suffer for. it! To
think that a,~ lady like Mrs. Darling should be insulted
by a cook! in my house, too 1"
"And just before election, too; it is a pity 1" said
Mrs. Darling quietly, as she rose, and wishing them
good-morning, departed, leaving Colonel Philpot lost
in astonishment. Her last remark rendered necessary
some explanation from Mrs. P. She was compelled
to 'repeat some part of the conversation that had takQn
place in the kitchen, which, though softened down as
much as possible, was sufficient to rouse the. colonel's
indignation to the highest pitch, for he saw at once
that Darling was lost. He gave his silly wife a hearty
blowing up, but upon Mudlaw, his wrath fell heaviest.
No entreaties of her mistress could save her; she was
commanded to quit th~ premises, to troop forthwith&amp;
"for being rude to visitors." But Mudlaw knew well
enough the real reason of her dismissal, and when
she went forth in stage and sorrow, she found' some
~onsolation~in spreading it far and wide, thereby ma2k~
ing Colonef Philpot very ridiculous in the eyes of the
community.
*

I
]

U


882       w~ow      3EflO~T    1~APflliJ5.

"Well, I 'm surprised, Hester" said John Darling,
after his wife had given him a circumstantial account,
of her visit "And I 'in right sorry, too, to have my
good opinion of a man knocked in the head ~o, for I
did think well of Col. IPhilpot. I really believed we
couldn't send a better man to Congress. But it won't
do. A man that can stoop to such conduct is n't fit
to go there. I can't vote for him, and my influence,
what little I ha~re, must go against him. If he gets
there, it must be without any help from John Dar-
ling."
Colonel Philpot did itot go to Congress, and what
made hi~ defeat the more aggravating was the fact that
his opponent was elected by' the small majority of
three votes. And so Colonel Philpot lost bi~ elec-
lion; and Mrs. Philpot lost her cook; and Mr. Darling
lost his esteem for Colonel Philpot, and all through
the over-politeness of th9 latter.
And was there nothing gained? Oh, yes; Mrs.
Darling gained something. Kot much information in
regard to the potato pudding, certainly; but she
gained some knowledge of the internal arrangements
of Mrs. Philpot's household, which proved of great
service~to her, for she confesses to John that she was
never so contented with her own home and her own
husband as sh&amp; has been since sbe made that memora-
ble call at Colonel Philpot's.

xxx.
GOOD morning, Miss Mary !"
Good morning, Mrs. Shaw !"
"I 'm well aware 'that I don't owe any call here,
but I told Mr. Shaw that the morning was so fine, I 'd
just step in and see whether you were all alive, for
really it seems an age since I saw any of you-you 'ye
,not been at all neighborly of late."
"I know it, Mrs. Shaw, but you must excuse us,
for grandmother has been so feeble for some weeks
past that we have not been able to leave-mother is
with her now and desires to be excused."
"Certainly; ~she is very excusable. I was not
aware that your grandmother was sick-I 'm excess~
ively sorry to hear it-~.--should assuredly have been'
round to see her before had I been aware of her ill-
ness. I do think so much of your grandmother-she
is certainly the sweetest old lady that I ever knew. I
tell Mr. Shaw she reminds me so much of my own
dear dead moTher-has the same dignified manner and
beuevrilent countenance that she had. And her chaT

lii
I
II
k
4
4
i
I
I.


384     WIDOW BflDOTT PAl'flR8.                               M0RNII~G CALLS.           385

acter is vei~y much like my mother's) too, always doing
good among the poor and sick. IL regret excessively
that IL was not aware of her illness-should certainly
have been round, though my own health has been
very precarious-in fact, it always is-IL go out very
little-none at all excepting among my particular
friends. IL do hope your grandma 'II be spared-we
couldn't part with her any way--.there are so few like
her on earth-and the poet says "Heaven is overflow.
ing." Ah! I see you have Dickens' last here-I sup-
pose it 's excessively interesting."
"No.~-.IL think~ it 's hardy worth reading."
"Indeed! well, of courses I shall not read it if you
condemn it-you are such an excellent judge of liter.
ature, and such a reader-your own productions, too,
are exquisite-Mr. Shaw is perfectly charmed with
thent What a beauty your japonica is, IL noticed it
last evening in passing. Ah! that reminds me they
tell stories about you, Mary.'~
"Indeed! what do they say about me, pray ?"
"0, they say you 're going to be married."
"The deuce X am! To whom ~re they going to
marry me ?"
"My stars! I protest you counterteit astonishment
to perfection. Of ~ourse the favored one is George
Carter-and I assure you, Mary, yoiz ~e quite the
envy of all the girls for snapping him izp so soon after
his return from Europe."

"You surprise me Mrs. Shaw. IL 'ye seen very lit~
tle of George Carter since he came home."
"Ah, do you think IL shall believe you when ap.
pearances are so very strong against you? Did n't I
see somebody's curly dog lying on somebody's piazza
last evening?"
"And seeing a puppy ozu~ide of the' door, it was
very natural for you to infer that there was another one
iflS2dO."
"0 Mary, what a creature you are! You have
such a ready wit. Mr. Shaw says he' never kiiew
your equal in that respect-he does admire wit in a
lady, excessively. But IL '11 not detain you-give my
love to your ma, and your grandma, too-and tell her
how deeply interested IL feel in her-IL do hope she 'II
recover. And do you and your ma come rognd and
see us as soon as you can. Serapheen and IL think so
much of seeing our friends-your ma and you particu-
larly-and we 're so londy since Angeleen went to
New York."
"Have you heard from Angeleen lately ?"
"Yes, we ~received a letter yesterday.. She says,
give my love to all the girls, but particularly to Mary
Barber. Angel does think so much of you. ~Miss
Barber bows.) She 's enjoying herself excessively--
sees a great ~deal of company. You know how it is
'in the city, ~N[ary-you 'ye spent so much tixne there.
1~.

4

4
i
4
4
4
4
I


886    WIDOW BEDOTT)PAP~RS.

MORNING CALLS.       887

She says she dreads coming back to this dull p1~ce ex~
cessively."
"Well then I hope she 'II snap up somebody in the
city, and not be compelled to come back here."
"What a quiz you are, Mary! but I must go-give
my love to your ma, and do come round when you
can. Good morning."
"~food morning, Mrs. Shaw."
Her next call is at Dr. More's.
"Good morning, Caroline. Is your ma at home ?"
"She is. She 's engaged jest now in the kitchen,
but she 'II be in siliortly."
"Nov don't let me hinder you if your engaged
about any thing-just take me right in where you 're
at work,"
"Well, then, walk into the sitting-room, if you
please-Ohariotte and I are sewing there."
"Good morning, Charlotte! flress.making, eli? Is
that for you or Caroline ?"
"For me-but Caroline has one like it. Do you
think it pretty ?"
"I do so. Those large plaids are excessively be.
coming to a tall slender person like you and Oa~oline
-but Mary Barber looks wretchedly in them-~she 's
so short and so thick. I was just in there-she had
on a plaid, the squares, without exaggeration, as large
as my two hands-it was blue, too, and you know
she is so dark."

"I should thinl~ it would be unbecoming to her~-
but Mary cares very little for dress, I think."
"She does so-an unpardonable fault in a young
lady, in my opinion. Mr. Shaw thinks a young lady
should be always neatly and becomingly dressed. lie
was speaking of it the other day, and contrasting your
two girls with Mary Barber. 'But,' said he, 'Mary
might be ever so well dressed and she would n't look
any how with such a form as she has.' You 'were
passing our house at the time-said he, 'there 's a
couple of the finest forms in Greenville.' Mr. Shaw
does admire a fine form in a 'lady excessively.' But
Mary 's so busy writing those nonsensical stories and
stmff that she has no time to think of her personal ape
appearance. Did you ever read' any thing so fiat?
What a pity that she so mistakes her talent. Mr.
Shaw laughs about it-he does dislike a blue stocking
excessively. And, Caroline, don't you think Mary is
very unrefinQd in her conversation ?"
"I think she 's rather abrupt, sometimes.
"Abrupt! my stars! I tell Mr. Shaw that what she
intends for wit, I call essential vulgarity; and Mr.
Shaw agrees with me-he does dislike such things in
a young lady, excessively. 'I think she 's rather cen-
soriousAoo-..for instance she pronounced George Car-
ter a puppy-at which I confess I am astonished."
"Wells I'm astonished too-for I think George Car-
ter a fine fellow."

In

f

X


888   WIDOW BEDOT~ PAPERS.                         MORNING CALLS.      389

"He is so, Charlotte. Ser~pheen thinks him deci.
dedly elegant; and you know she 's competent to give
an opinipm-having passed two winters in New York,
where she saw a great deal of gentlemen's society. I
was excessively sorry to hear Mary speak so; but I
hope you won't repeat it ~ at least don't mention it as
coming from me. I merely' alluded to it because I
felt so indignant at the remark."
"Good morning, Mrs. Shaw."
"Good morning, Mrs. More; how 's your health ?"
"Very good, indeed-.are you well, Mrs. Shaw ?"
"Oh, no, Mrs. More. I 'm itiiserable; indeed I
ought to be at home and in bed now; bt~t I told Mr.
Shaw That the morning was so fine, I must come round
to see 'you. I don't pretend to cafl except upon my
particular friends. Mr. Shaw often tells me I make a
complete hermit of myself-I hope I 'm not hindering
you this morning, Mrs. More.
"Oh, not at all-you must excuse me for not com-
ing in sooner. I was just baking and couldn't well
leave my bread."
"Just so-you 're very excusable-you do your own
work, Mrs. More, I believe."
"Yes, our family is 8mall-oniy Dr. More and us
three-and since the girls were old enough to help
me, I 'ye prefened doing without servants."
"Well now-what a grand .thing ~that is! I tell
Mr. Shaw I should be so delighted if I could get along

without servants-they are such a plague I but situated
as we are, it would be utterly impossible. The girls
are very industrious-I 'ye instructed them in that re.
spect-but they are away so much; our relatives in
the city insist upon having one of them there most~ of
the time; and my health is so precarious that I can
do very little. And then, when the girls are at home,
they are necessarily so much occupied with their com-
pany and music. Your daughters are not musicians,
I believe, Mrs. More ?"
"No-they have never shown any fondness for ~
music-at least no decided talent for it; and their
father thought it would be a useless expense to have
them take lessons."
"It would 60, Mrs. More.~-Mr. Shaw and myself
would never have thought of such a thing as having
Angeleen and Serapheen learn musie, if they had not
shown such an extraordinary talent for it, from their
very infancy. It 's utter nonsense for children to
study any thing they have n't a taste for, es~ecia1ly
music. I think you acted very judiciously."
"Have you heard from Angeleen, lately?"
"Yes, Caroline-I had a letter from her ~yesterday.
She is passing her time very pleasantly at her uncle's
-~but she says she does want to see her pa and ma and
sis, and ~you and Charlotte very much indeed. She
says, 'gi3ve my love to all the girls, but ixsrticuk~r~.y to
Caroline and Charlotte More.' Angel does think so

'N

$89

888


WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.

M0I~.NING CALLS.            891

much of her friends..-.especially your two girls. See.
ing you making a sleeve, Chark~tie, reminds me that
she speaks of ~the fashions. She says they 're wearing
that kind~ of sleeve now very much. Who cuts your
dresses, Lotty? they always fit beautifully."
"We cut them ourselves."
"My stars] you amaze me! why Mrs. More, I won.
der if i~here 's any thing' under the sun that your girls
cc~n't do."
"Yes-.-they can't play on the piano. I had them
learn to cut and fit of Miss Curtis, before she went
away-and ever'since the have made all our dresses."
"My stars! If that is n't a grand idea. You are
such a capital manager, Mrs. More. Mr. Shaw often
remarks that Dr. More's family is a model for its ad.
miracle management-.-and it is so. It seems to me
should be the happiest woman in the world if I could
be independent of hired girls and mantua..makers. I
tell Mr. Shawthey 're the plague of my life. Oh, if
my girls could make their own dresses and have them
fit as exquisitely as Carry's and LQtty's do, I should be
so rejoiced. How dreadfully Mary B~rber's dresses
hang on her. By the way, Mrs. More, did you know
that old Mrs. Barber is quite sick??'
"Oh, yes, she 's been sick some time."
"Is Dr. 1\4ore her physician?"'
they employ Dr. Smith, I believe."
My stars! you amaze me, Mrs.~More! that misei~.

able homoepathist! Astonishing that people will be
such fools! to think of their trusting her in his hands,
when there 's such .a skillful physician as Dr. More
close by; why I have n't the least confidence in that
kind of practice-and Dr. More enjoys such a repute.
Lion too! Mr. Shaw says that if Dr. Billings had n't
been our family physician before Dr. More came here,
he should certainly have employed Dr. More. How-
ever, Mrs. More, between you and me, I presume Dr.
~~Eore has escaped an undesirable job. I should think
old Mrs. Barber would be an excessively disagreeable
patient. She is so very repulsive when she 's welL
Don't you think so
"Well, I don't know; she 's rather reserved--
though I like her."
"Reserved! my stars! she 's as cold as an icicle-
I don't see how you can like her, especially when she
has treated Dr. More so shabbily."
"I did feel rather hurt that they discharged Dr.
More; but they were urged by some of their friends
to try the homcoopathic system. It's not from any
want of confidence in Dr. More-tbky are very friends
ly to him-and I dare say they '11 employ him again,
at some future time, if they 're not satisfied with Dr.
Smith's practice."
"Well, I hope that Dr. More will decline attending
them; li~ certainly ought to do so. ~ I went in there
this morning from a sense of duty. I never call upon


392      WIPOW. BED OTT PAPERS.
any but my p~rtici4ar friends, except in case of si~k.
ness; and the Barbers are such a queer family.' I
never know what to make pf them. But I must go;
I always stay so long when I come here. I tell Mr.
Shaw I never know when to get away from Dr.
More's. I do think so much of your family. Now
do come round Mrs. More; you never come-and the
girls are not sociable at all; do come. Seraph and I
are so lonely, etc. etc."-{Jmagine the rest).
She next proceeds to Dr. Smith's.
"Good morning, Mrs. Smith."
'"Good morning, Mrs. Shaw; you look fatigued;
take the rocking~chair-.do."
"Thank you, Mrs. Smith, I will, for I am quite
weaa'y; have made several calls this morning; calls
are an awful bore tQ me in my state of health, except
when I go to see my particular friends."
"Sure-is your health not good, Mrs. Shaw ?"
"It 's miserable, Mrs. Smith-miserable. I really
ought to be at home and in bed now, but I told Mr.
Shaw that the morning was so fine, I must get round
and see Mrs. Smith. I 'ye so long been wishing to,
come. Mr. Shaw thought I was rather imprudent to
walk so fax.; but I told him I would stop and rest
several times on the way. I would n't attempt to take
such awoik except to see a very particularr friend~
which I hope I may call you, Mrs. Smith."

MORNI~t~TG CALLS.

898

"Certainly, Mrs. Shaw.-.you do me much honor.
II hope you will not be the worse for the exertion.
Have you been long an invalid ?"
"iii have so; my health has been very precarious
for some years. 0, Mrs. Smith, you can not imagine
how excessively tired I 'ye become of taking such
quantities of medicine as the old-fashioned doctors
give. I tell Mr. Shaw the very sight of it disgusts me."
"I 'ye heard so much of Dr. Smith's astonishing
success in his practice, that I shouldn't hesitate a mo~
ment to place myself under his care, and go through
a course of homeopathic treatment; if it were not for
fear of offending old Dr. Billings, who has always
been our family physician; and we are fearful he
might feel hurt, you know."
"Sure-but I do not think he would be. Dr. Smith
has one of Dr. Jifore's patients, Mrs. Barber, under his
care; and Dr. More doesn't appear to be at all dis-
pleased about it."
"I think you're mistaken, Mrs. Smith, for I've
heard Mrs. More speak of it with considerable bitter.
ness. She said her feelings were very much hurt at
the Barbers' discharging ~her husband. Though she
remarked that she felt confident they would become
dissatisfied with Dr. Smith, and send for Dr. More
again."
"Well, I de~laret I 'II tell the doctor of that-

I

a


394   WIDOW BEDOTTPAPERS.

it 's the first time I 'ye heard of any one~ speaking
against my husband's practice."
You know, Mrs. Smith, Dr. More is a very penu-
rious man and of course would not like to have a rich
patient slip~through his fingers."
"Is he a close man? I did n't know it before."
"He is so-are you acquainted with the family ?"
"No-Mrs. More has never called on me."
"Well, that 's not strange-it costs something you
know to keep up an acquaintance."
"I thought they were quite a genteel family."
"Genteel' I-my stars! they are excessively plain."
"I 'in sure the daughters dress in good st~jle."
"I 'in aware of that, Mrs. Smith; but they pinch
and save in every other way."~
"Sure I-how you talk I"
"They keep no servants at all, though Dr. More 'is
abundantly able; there are few richer men in Green-
vifle. Mrs. More works like a slave-and so do the
girLs."
"Sure I-how you talk, Mrs. Shaw I"
"I te],l Mr. Shaw I do reallfrpity those poor girls;
notwithstanding the doctors' ample mean; he has
never given them the advanI~age of a genteel educa-
tion."
"Sure! You don't say so, Mrs. Shawl"
"Just
so, Mrs. Smith-they 'ye not even learnt
inuaie 1"

MORNING GALLS.                395
"Mercy on us!"
"But they 'ye taken lessons in   , what do you
think ?.-jnst guess, Mrs. Smith."
"Well, I 'm 'sure I can't tell-is it drawing ?"
"Drawing! My stars! You 'd never guess till
your dying day-.dress.making! 1"
"Mercy on us! he, he, he, he, he! hojw Ann Eliza
would laugh to hear that. It 's the last thing I ever
should have thought of."
"Why, Mr. Shaw says he 'd do any thing in the
world before he 'd let me and the girls work as they
do. He says if it took his last sixpence, Angel and
Seraph should learn music."
"Sure-I should n't think Ann Eliza fit for genteel
society, unless she could play on the piano-how I
should feel if her pa should want her to make her own
dresses."
"You would so, Mrs. Smith-it 's the only accom-
pli~hment that the More's possess; and no wonder they
carry it to such pefect~on, and pinch up their Waists to
the size of a chaiP~post.' Did you ever see such sights
as their waists?"
"They are very small, indeed."
"They look perfectly. ridiculous-Mr. Shaw can't
bear such forms; he says a littl&amp; waist is a deformity
rather than a beauty."
"I tl4nk so to. I 'ye iiever let Ann Eli~a. lace
tighj~."


.398    WIDOW BEDOTT rArI~Rs.

MQRNI~G GALLS.       897

"'Well, you have acted very judiciously, Mrs.
Smith; how is Ann Eliza ?"
"She 's quite well, thank you. She 's gone out this
morning to niake calls."
"Well, I hope she 'II go round to our house.
Seraph would be so delighted to s~ her-Ann Eliza 's
a lovely girl. I 'in told she was great belle at Coon-
yule."
"Well, it 's not for me to' say as to that."
"Of course-bi~it you can't help being proud of hex,
Mrs. Smith. How sweetly she looked last Sabbath
day! Mr. Shaw remarked it. He admires her style
ofbeauty excessively. I observed she had on one of
the new-fashioned capes. Angeleen writes me that
they 're very much worn by th&amp; first in New York."
"Yes-Ann Eliza heard they were 'very fashion.
able amo~iag genteel people. Have you heard from
Angeleen, lately?"
"Received a letter yesterday-she 's very happy5
2'
says she 's engaged in one constant round of parties~
and swearees-.-just what Angel likes, you know:
she '850 fond of society. She2 says, give my love to
all the girls, but particularly to Ann Eliza Smith.
She does love Ann Eliza. Bat I must go."
"Don't be in haste, Mrs. Shaw."
"0, I 'ye staid a long ti . I always do stay for..'
ever when I, come here. w do come round Mrs.
$mith-...~uu in at any time.-~.don't be cereinQuious

I never use any ceremony with my particular friends.
Tell Ann Eliza to come roun~1, etc. etc."
Her next call is at Mr. Price's, the minister.
"How do you do, Mrs. Price ?"
"Quite well, thank you-.how are you, Mrs. Shaw ?"
"Poorly, Mrs. Price-quite poorly."
"I 'm very sorry to hear it."
"Really, Mr~. Price, I must take you to task for not
coming round to see me this long time. You 'ye not
done your duty as a minister's Wife."
' 1 'ye not been able to go, Mrs. Shaw. Gustus has
been sick with the measels, and I 'ye not been out at
all for three weeks."
"My stars! how you shock me, Mrs. Price. I have
n't heard a word of Augustus being sick, or I should
certainly have I~een round; I always go to see the
sick if I am able to erawl.-.but my health is so preca-
rious that I very seldom get out. I told Mr. Shaw the
morning was so fine I must get out and see my minis-
ter's folks, though it 's a very long walk for me. 1kw
is dear little Gusty rnovr'?"
"Much better.-so as to be able to go to school to-
day."
"I 'm very glad-very indeed. Augustus is such a
noble boy-Mr. Shaw says he is without exception the
finest child he ever saw. What a mercy that the
Lord s~w fit to spare him!
"It was, indeed-I feel to be thankful."


898     WIDOW ~BEDOTT PAER$.

"Is Mr. Price at home?"
"He is. J2'llspeakto him."
":Now don't disturb him, Mrs. Price, if he 's en-
gaged; but his conversation is &amp;o instructive I would
like excessively to see him."
"Ah, Mr. Price, II hope you 're well-quite well ?"
"Perfectly so, Sister Shaw. I trust you are in the
enjoyment of more comfortable corporeal health than
has recently fallen to your lot?"
"I regret that I am not, Mr. Price-my health is
very delicate-I assure you, it was a great ezertion
for me to walk so far this morning. I told Mr. Shaw
I would n't have thought of going such a distance to
see ~any one but you and Mrs. Price."
'.' Y.e-&amp;---I assure you, Sister Shaw, I appreciate the
effort, and ana truly gratified to see you."
"Thank you, Mr. Price, it does me so much good to
talk with you occasionally."
"Y-e..s~.-.well, how do you f-e~e-l now, Sister SIiaw,
in regard to your mind ?"
"0, Mr. Price, I can not say that I always feel as I
ought to-owing to the precarious state of my health,
my feelings are variable."
"Y-e~s----quite natural they should be so."
'~:Sometimes I feel a degree of coldness and apathy,
and am almost tenaptectto give up myi~ope; and again
I experience great comfort, and my evidences of ac-
ceptance are very ~tro~g~"

MORNII~TG CALLS.              899
"Y~e.s-as a general thing, you enjoy religion, I
suppose ?"
"I do so-.O, Mr. Price, what should I do without
religion? I tell Mr. Shaw, that with my miserable
health, religion is my only support."
"Y-e-s-how does Mr. Shaw feel ?"
"0, Mr. Price,. I regret to say, that he does not feel
his lost and ruiiaed condition as sensiblyy as I could
wish. 0! 0! if that n~an only had saving faith-and~
if Serapheen was only a Christian-my happiness
would be complete 1" ~
"Y-e-s--I trust that you wrestle for them, without
ceasing at the throne of grace?"
"I do so, Mr. Price-I do so."
"Y-e-s---and do you feel, that in case the Lord
should see fit to disregard your. petitions, and consign
them to everlasting misery, you could acquiesce in his
decrees, and rejoice in their destruction ?"
"II feel that I could without a murmur."
"Y.e~s-I am very happy, Sister Shaw, to find you
in such a desirable state of mind."
"But, Mr. Price, I feel at times excessively exer-
cised, in view of the low state of religion in &amp;reen'
vifle, now."
"Y~e*s-it is truly melancholy, the ways of Zion
languish."
"They do so-it 's time we had another protracted
meeting. I don't know when I 'ye had my feelings so

I


400    WIDOW BEDOTT PAPERS.                             MORNING CALLS.       401

tried as they have been this morning, to see the cold.
ness atid worldliness of some of our people. On my
way l~ere, I stopped to rest at several places-and 0,
my dear Mr. Price! it was so distressing to witness
the unconcern ~that was manifested."
"I called at Mrs. Barber's-they 're very' irreligious
people you know."
"Y-e-s---no experimental acquaintance with saving
faith."
"None whatever. The old lady 's quite sick-on
her death-bed, perhaps-I did n't see her-they did n't
ask me to go in-you know they 're very peculiar
people-so distant. I did want to see her, and find
out how shefelt-and whether she expected to get to
heaven on good works now. You know you used to
think she did."
"Y-es-4 had reason to suppose so, from her con*
duct."
"It would be dreadful, if' the old lady should die in
such a ~tate of mind-would n't it, Mr. Price ?"
'Behold the aged sinner goes,
Laden with guilt and heavy woes,
Down to the regions of the dead
-             With endless curses ot&amp; her head.'
How remarkably those words of' the sacred poet ap
ply to her case I"
"They do so. I did n't see Mrs. George Barber nei-

thor. She was with the old lady-but I saw Mary-
what a hardened girl she is! Why, Mr. Price, she
actually called on the name of the adversary of' souls
in the course of her conversation. I never was so
shocked !"
"Dreadful I awfully dreadful, Sister Shaw I"
"And the Mores, too-I was in there-how excess-
ively worldly they are-think of nothing but making
and saving money-and what is 'money good for?
nothing-just nothing, Mr. Price-it 's the root ~f ~ll
evil, Mr. Price.~~
Though poor Mr. Price thought in his heart that a~
little of that same root would n't come ~amiss to him.
"And Dr. Smith's people-I called there, too-
what a poor, silly woman, Mrs. Smith is-~ntfrely de-
voted to the world and its follies. She thinks more
of having her daughter shine in society, than she does
of saving her soul, I do believe. 0, Mr. Price, I~was
sick at heart-4 could have wept as I sat there, and
heard that wom nunonabouther daughterbeing~
belle, and dre~ing in style and all that. Poor Ann
Eliza! she has no parent to wrestle for her at the
throne of grace, as my d~ar Serepheen has! I dofee~
for her-no wonder that she 's such a trifling thought-
less thing."
"Y-e-~-it is truly melancholy to be in her condb
tion."

)

400

401


402

WIDOW BEDOTT PAPflRS.

"0, ~here 's an alarming ~tate of things 'in Green4
vile now, Mr. Price-we must have a protracted meet-
ing, Mr. Price."
"Y-e-s; Sister Shaw, we must endeavor to do so."
"I feel as if something must be done for impenitent
sinners in Greenville. It 's three years since we had a
special effort-'t was before you came here, Mr. Price
-there was a great outpouring of the Spirit-Angel-
een ~ I feel to believe, that if
we could have another, Mr. ;Shaw and Serapheen
would come out. And then a great many of those
that were hopefully con&amp;~,rted at the last meeting, have
gone back into the world( and want to be re-converted.
We must get up a revival, Mr. Price. Don't you
think so?"
"Y.e-s, I feel convinced that a protracted effort might
~. be signally blest if the church would come up to they
work. Speaking of your absent daughter, Sister Shaw
have you heard from her lately ?"
"I have so-received a letter yesterday.' She de-
sired to be particu14~remembered to her dear friends,
Mr. and Mrs. Price."
"Y-e.s, thank you-did she say what was the stat~
o~ religion in New Y~rk now
"Very low, she says.~-.~--very low, indeed. She ~t'
tends Dr. ~.ittles' ~1un~ch with her uncle's family; but
she says she does want to hear one of your excellent,
spiritual serm6n~ again, Mr. Price. She 's heartily

M0R!~ING GALLS.

403

sick of the gayety of the city. She 's obliged to min-
gle in it some, yofr~ know; but such things are very
uncongenial to Angel's taste4 She does long to come
home to her old friends, and sit under her dear Mr.
Price's preaching once more. Angel is very much at-
tached to you and Mrs. Price, and so fond of retire-
ment. 'Ma,' she says in her letter; 'II 'm utterly worn
out with visits, parties, and swearees."'
"Swearees! I trust those are not, as the name im-
ports, profane assemblages."
"By no means, Mr. Price,' Swearees' is the French
for 'ice-cream parties;' but I must go-my visits here
are so refreshing. I always stay longer than I intend
to. What an intensely interesting sermon you gave us
last Sabbath day, Mr. Price it did me so much good.
Mr. Shaw was excessively deighted~with it-' that 's
what I call preaching,' said he to me, as we were going
home. 0, Mr. Price, it is such a deprivation to me
not to be able to attend the evening prayer-meeting
oftener, but my health is so precarious that, I can not
do as inclination prompts; but I/eel that such depri-
vations are sent as trials to my faith."
"Y-e-s, undoubtedly, Sister Shaw.-and I trust that
your faith will be strengthened by them."
"I do most ardently hope so-.-~-bnt I must go-now
do come round, Mr. Price, and you, Mrs. Price, I think
so much of having you come."

4

a

)


  
             
         
       
   
