
    ----CITATION----
        Gringo, Harry, (1819-1869). Tales for the Marines .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8352
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Tales for the marines 
            
                 
                TALES FOR THE MARINES. BY HARRY GRINGO, AUTHOR OP "OS GRINGOS."  "Nought but one long tale was left In that once peaceful dwelline, And a very tou"h one, too, it was, The same that i've been telling." BOSTON: PHLLIPS, SAMPSON, & COMPANY. NEW YORK]: J. C. DERBY. 1855.   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the'year 1855, by PHLLIPS, SAMPSON, AND     COMPANY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts STEREOTYED AT THE BOSTON  STEREOTYE   FOUNDRY   PREPACE.-, As 'far back as the reign of old Canute. the Dane, and King Alfred of Britain, when navies were first built, downe to the present time, there has existed a, popular superstition, that every item of a romantic or-intellectual complexion which happens on shipboard is immediately com- municated to the Marines. It would be  preposterous in any mild- mannered mariner of this century to gainsay so time-hallowed a tradition; and under the con- viction that the Anglo-Saxon world on land are somewhat curiously inclined to know what really is told to the Marines, I have employed   - as I trust the reader will admit after a careful perusal of these'Tales-considerable labor and research in preparing the only authentic records of the kind that have yet appeared in print. HTARRY GRINGO. -l.   TALES FOR THE MARINES. CHAPTER    I. "Now for the pirates, uncle," said Fred to the Lieu- tenant, as the boy planted both elbows on the table, and looked up into his relative's face with an earnest gaze; Ax "Iet us have the yarn you promised about the pirates; i the bghy is swinging in her little cot, and aunty has  . declared she won't make fun of the story; so begin, uncle, do!"                      I The Lieutenant could not, apparently, resist the eager '  looks which complimented him through the youngster's '  eyes; and so, while the ladits were busy sewing for a  :"i small }Dorcas Society, ihe placed an' unlighted cheroot ' - between his incisors, and began as follows:-      ! I intend to-tell you of my first cruise in the Juniata; for the incidents connected with it made a very vivid impression upon me at the time, which'has never yet  i  been effaced. It is now considerably. more than a -  j 3core of years, my child, when I was scarcely bigger , 7 1I           (5) $      ;r 5 -:4ii   , . 1XDTru H,  MRJL niK M!ASINES. than you, that I left school. "Ran away, you mean," said a lady near, without, however, looking up from her work upon a wee flannel pea-jacket intended for a ten pound baby. Granted, smiled the Lieutenant, but it was an excusable desertion, as you shall hear. The facts are these: that I was placed under the parental culture of a sanctimonious preacher, the Rev. Mr. Pyrus Eelpie, who had his establishment away off in the provinces, in shape of a boarding school, where the only rewards of merit were, a ride on a spavined little pony on Saturdays, and a cold wedge of apple pie on Sundays. For some reason which I have not to this day been able to divine, I never had but one ride on that misera- ble pony; when, whether I went too far or too fast I cannot remember, but the poor beast went dead lame, and was confined to the stable for many weeks after- wards- an instance of perversity on his part which was the cause of extreme dissatisfaction to all the good boys, myself included, of the institution. As for the cold pie, I never had so much as even a bite, and was forced to put up with the, usual commons -a peculiarly indigestible mass of food, of the consistency of bill stickers' paste, called by the good Pyrus minnit puddin', but by his students glazing putty, because it stuck pains in their insides. Owing to the unfortunate sagacity and fatigue of the pony, I was, with several other lads, deprived of the   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        7 pleasure of witnessing a grand display of fireworks, prepared by the chemical class, and which were to be let off on a certain festival, to delight and astonish the townspeople. The evening previous, however, to this display, with the assistance of a bosom friend, who, I regret to add, was many years afterwards hung, we con- trived to remove, for our private gratification in their, going off, a half barrel filled with Roman candles, Cath- arine wheels, rockets, lights, and other pyrotechny, which had been carefully prepared, and stored in. the cellars beneath the laboratory. The night selected for the grand show, by our com- rades and the worthy burghers, chanced unfortunately to pour with rain, and their fireworks could not be induced to burn. Our own little store, however, performed admirably, and,' indeed, rather more brilliantly than we really intended they should. -To guard them from the dampness, we had rolled the barrel under a great square recitation room, which rested on low posts, about four feet from the ground, like a house on stilts; the space beneath being devoted to large broods of poultry, which were at maturity devoured, we believed, at the excellent Eelpie's private board. While our fellow- students, headed by the principal and his assistants, were striving unavailingly to coax their combustibles to fly up into the sky, we merely threw two or three pounds of loose powder into our barrel, made a slow match of damp tow, applied a spark, and being tolerably fleet of    8      TALES FOR THE MARINES. foot, travelled to a safe distance before the explosion took place. There was not much of a report certainly; but though in my time it has been my fate to behold the battle of Navaring, the taking of Amoy, the bombardment of Algiers, and other gorgeous spectacles of the sort, yet on this occasion the brilliant mixture -of sparks and flames, the bursting of rockets, the whizzing wheels and Bengal lights, added to the orchestral accompani- ment of the startled cackling geese and fowls, positively "beggars description." I learned afterwards that the building itself was left in a very rickety condition, and was not considered a safe habitation for the good boys until the underpinning had been strengthened.  However, long before the alarmed Pyrus had returned to his classic abode; my companion and I had skipped over many a rood, and were racing away, with light hearts and very much lighter pockets. We went on at a round trot for the remainder of the night, and towards morning, wet and weary, we took shelter in a barn, where, after a couple of hours' sleep, we resumed our journey. We partook of gingerbread for breakfast,- purchased at an apple stand in a village on our way, and then on we journeyed. Towards noon we stopped, and seating ourselves on a rail fence at the road side, began to discuss our future prospects. "I'm going to sea," said my companion. "And so will I; but where shall we go now?"I added.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        9 "O, leave that to me," said he; but just at that mo- ment he cast his eyes up the road, and roared out, , Why, there's the blazed-face mare comin' like ven- geance, with old Eelpie inside the gig; now, don't let him catch us.",       . For myself, I looked upon escape as next to impos- sible; for my friend threw a somersault over the fence, and plunging into an open field with a rolling country . beyond, left me to my fate. I resolved, however, to make an effort to create a diversion by trying my luck on the opposite side of the road; so just as the excited Pyrus came up abreast of me I had crawled through the fence, and gained a small patch of forest trees be- yond. Here I gave a glance 'back, and saw our grieved governor spring out of his vehicle, and hesitating, an instant, as if undecided which bird to pounce upon first, and very naturally thinking, perhaps, that a short-legged little runt of a boy like me could be overhauled at pleasure, he, made his own sticking plaster looking pedestals, encased as they were in shiny bombazine, move after the nimble heels of my agile companion. I watched the chase,with intense interest for some minutes, until I saw my ill-fated friend seized by the nape of the neck, when I turned my thoughts to my own dismal plight. Running a race with the schoolmaster, tired as I felt, was out of the question ; and I was on the point of surrendering with the best grace possible, when my eye caught sight of thie gig standing in the middle   TL'ALES FOR THE MARINES. o f the road.,- ' Ah, ha!" thought I; - now comes my turn." In a moment I was seated within the comfortably stuffed-vehicle, had taken the ribbons, and with a vigor- ous touch of the whip, off Iwent at a full gallop.  I had only time to observe my pursuier standing on the other side of the enclosure, with his prize in his grasp, but looking the very personification of horror and amazement. "Stop, you thief!" he gaspingly shrieked, as I flew by; but I heeded him not; and this was the last glimpse I ever was blessed with of the Rev. Pyrus Eeipie. I went on for many miles at a slapping pace, until, find- ing the mare was a little blown; and that I was approach- ing a large town, I got down, turned her head in the direction I had come, slipped off the bridle, and with one swinging lash over the blazed-nose's flanks, I let her go.   ,  . I presumed that the gig would be dashed into tooth- picks in about the space of five minutes, as indeed it was in less; and if I remember aright, said the Lieutenant, elevating his voiceinto the ear of an elderly lady of the party, it was charged in the bill with the fireworks! The course was now all clear before me, continued the narrator, and by night I reached one of our noble rivers, and embarked in a little steamer. The next day, without sixpence in my pocket, I was in New York, but, nevertheless, I persuaded the skipper of a sailing   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       " packet to give me a passage to the Chesapeake. From this skipper, too, I was taught my first lesson in practical navigation; for once on the voyage, about meridian, I happened to take his quadrant off the rail, to discover, what he could possibly see inside of it, of such extraor- dinary interest, for an hour each day. I had no sooner raised it to my own vision, than the skipper shouted out, "Drop that pig yoke, you infernal imp." His harsh summons so startled me, that I dropped his instrument like a hot copper, only it went overboard! That I be- lieve was charged in another bill, though the skipper seemed inclined to drop me into the sea in search of his quadrant, and thus balance and cancel the account. I was, however, in the end safely restored to my good / old grandfather's care, who enjoyed my adventures, gave me a boat and fowling piece, and intrusted me to the charge of a colored man on the estate, named Kit Dolphin. Kit had been born and bred in the family, and had, as he always boasted, " minded" my father  . All the denizens of the plantation loved and respected Christopher, for he was as brave and sagacious as an elephant, and withal as kind and gentle as a woman. In the war of 1812, Kit had followed my father to sea; and in one of the bloodiest actions, he had been wounded by a bursting fuse, which had left a nearly white mark, in a broad stripe from the lower part of his cheek, straight up across the eye and forehead.  In person lKit was a very Atlas in muscle; and though scarcely above s- i                       c   1      TALES FOR THE MARINES. the ordinary height, his, heavy, square shoulders and deep chest, with arms woven like the wire of a suspen- sion, bridge, layer upon layer, of hard, seasoned thews and sinews, made him more than a match for any two men you would meet in a week., Added to this pro- digious strength, he was a man of great and tried en- durance and singular activity, whether afloat or on shore. But still he was the best and kindest creature in existence, and his smile, lighted up by the comical white seam in his iface, made us shout with merriment when- ever we met him. He was born a slave, but my father had given him his freedom  out of love for his early playmate; and although Kit at times would ramble away for a few months, on short voyages to the West Indies, or along our own coast, still he always returned to the land where he was 'reared. Here he had 'a freehold of a small house and bit of land resting on an arm of the bay, where he was universally acknowledged as the king of the seine and superintendent-in-chief of all the boats, oyster beds, and fishing spots pertaining to the planta- tion. The early affection which he had felt for my father he transferred to me; and many's the hour the faithful black has held me in his arms, and related to me, with wonderful powers of description, the scenes he had wit- nessed "beyond seas; " and through all my wayward- ness and impatience of restraint, he never lost his rare   TALES FOR THE MARINES. -  good humor, or chided Ine with an unkind word. O(ilce, however, I remember that when I had proved fractions beyond all reasonable measure, the cautious Christopher had devised the happy expedient of curbing my childish rambles, by digging a hole in the sandy flats of the sea beach, and there immersing me up to the armpits, while he pursued his search for soft crabs. My grandfather had been, until far advanced in life, a capital sportsman both in the chase and with the gun. , Kit had been a pupil of his master in these sports, and by him I was taught to handle the fowling piece and pistol, and dash through a pine forest on a thorough- bred horse without a thought of accident. Here I led a very delightful existence for more than a year, paddling about the lagoons, shooting game, sail- ing, hunting, and fishing, until one unlucky morning I chanced to deliver a full charge of fine shot into the  breeches of a French gentleman, who had taken the liberty of landing from a vessel in the bay, and without leave or license was exercising his skill upon the wood- cock in a small marsh which I had especially set aside for my own amusement. The French gentleman, thereupon, , raised such a noise and commotion that it-even attracted  the attention of my grandfather, who had very recently de- - clared his disapprobation of previous frolicsome exploits, by intimating, in good set terms, that he (' wished the , boy was with the devil, and that he had ten thousand. dollars for him." After the Frenchman had been heard,   "      TALES FOR THE- MARINES. pacified, and carried off to his vessel, with the, shot carefully picked out of his breeches and his wounds decently dressed, the vessel fortunately sailing that afternoon for Bordeaux, my turn came, ,and Kit not being near to shield or excuse me, in furtherance of the benevolent wish expressed by my grandfather, it was determined that I should  be, as Kit expressed it, "hustled " off to sea. The navy was the branch of the profession chosen. An appointment as midshipman was soon procured through the influence of a noble-hearted relative in power, and within a month I was hurried away to a dock yard, where until a vessel was ready, I was ordered to attend the naval school. There was a large class of old 'midshipmen at this embryo college, from whom, being a boy of considera- ble observation, I picked up a great many of the first rudiments of knowledge requisite for the profession I was about to embark in; but in the way of books, I am sorry to add, I gave very little heed to the drunken and corrupt teacher or his lessons or threats. My chief delight was, with two or three other sucklings of sailors, in rolling round shot about the lower decks of a frigate on the stocks, until the master carpenter complained of us, and we were pulled up -one morning by the post captain of the dock yard. He was a gentleman of the Benbow stamp, with a nose as red as a comet, and a voice like a rusty cable grating out of a hawsehole.  ,                    .   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      15 {' Halloo!" he said in a base strong enough to crack a wine glass - "halloo! so you've been smashing the bulkheads of the Sabine, have ye? and you don't larn your lessons; nor," he added, with an awful thunder, "nor go to chapel either, you dam little wharf rats! I've written to the Hon. Soketary of the Navy to send . you off to sea; so mizzle."' As we -turned to fly, I heard him growl out to an attendant at his office door, "William, what did my wife say when I sent you for the prayer book?" "Why, sir, she says there ain't a prayer book in the house." "What!" he bellowed; "then tell her to send me a Bible,-there's one of, them, I know, as big as the dining room table,--for I'm a-going to bury a marine." These were the last words I ever heard the old sea dog utter; and he died soon after of apoplexy, while in a suppressed passion at his chaplain for reading from the pulpit a proclamation from the bishop without permission. At his death, however, it was found that he had formally deviseid and bequeathed the navy yard, shipping, and other public property, to his natural heirs, under the mistaken belief, no doubt, that after his long stewardship the property rightfully belonged to him. The orders for sea service soon came, recommended as they were by so powerful an advocate; and with -,as nice a kit as ever a reefer had I proceeded to join my ship. Speaking of kits, said the Lieutenant, turning to his nephew, it's the most ill-judged thing in the world   1B6    .TALES FOR THE MARINES. to carry too much with one to sea, as it is on the other hand not to take enough. NowV, inmy time I've seen boys carry'chests as big as piano-fortes, crammed with every useless article imaginable, from a plum cake to long silk stockings; and then again I've known lads with only a couple of shirts, which they were obliged of course to put on, watch and watch, who would have got on better with a few more. On my journeyto the seaport wherethe ship to which I was attached was fitting, I fell in company with a mate, as noble arid handsome a fellow as ever lived, named Jack Gracieux. We have sailed many a year together since, and shared many a sight of fun and gravity which are now but dimly remembered; but I never shall forget the impression he made upon me on the occasion of our first introduction. The vessel we joined was a brand new corvette, scarcely a month off the ways. Her battery was composed of twenty thirty-two pounder medium guns, and two beautiful long eighteens forward. She was, at the time I speak of, supposed to combine the two requisites of a ship of war of her class -- space and speed. She had a sharp entrance, a flat floor, with great beam, and a run as fine as a needle' abaft. Above the water line she rested lightly with a full swell from the fore chains to her taffrail, where she rounded off in a graceful curve, like the bill of a wild duck. Above she had the legs- and arms of a giant; more than one not acquainted with   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       17 the qualities of the ship would suppose she could stand up to; but with seventeen feet hold of the water be- low, it was rare to fall inl with the breeze to make her heel over beyond her bearings. Her immense beam, too, gave great spread to the standing rigging, and the masts could bear their canvas without complaining. Such was the Juniata!     ;  e. I pass over the fitting cout, during which period of some weeks we- were messed on board the receiving hulk, where an old mate, Jo  Powers by name, ca- tered, as it were, forcibly for us. He made an invari- able rule to lug in a charge for 'crockery every week, and always gave secret instructions -to the steward to pause at his wife's lodgings in the town, and let her have a shy at the market baskets. This old rascal was a very sharp fellow of his kind in those days, when even post captains did not consider it beneath their dignity to steal slush or timber from the public stores intrusted to their keeping; but now I believe the race has died out of the service, both morally and physically. The age of our, purveyor on board the hulk, Jo Powers, was enveloped in the mists of the past; so was his birthplace.  Of the former we knew, from contempora- neous history, that he had served in the patriot service in '21, where he did a little marauding:in the Pacific; but whether he was Russ, Swede, Saxon, or Yankee, no traditions were handed down to us. When the dock yard men had completed their mission 2r   18       TALES FOR THE MARINES. on board the corvette, and she had been stored and watered, we were, with the crew, transferred from  the guardship and hauled out into the stream, where the powder was received and all preparations made for sea. Though the crew were rather short-handed, we were, by contrast, over-manned with reefers. The accommoda- tions were as roomy as the internal economy of the ship would admit, but the fault lay in crowding too many midshipmen into the allotted space-- more, in fact, than were required for the duties of the corvette. I think we numbered five and twenty, all told, packed into the square berths, with narrow upright little lockers for our traps, ranged around the sides and bulkheads.   Of all these my old messmates, and some twenty more who entered the service when I did, there are scarcely a ba- ker's dozen left.  Dissipation and disease carried off the greater part, while crime and violent deaths swept away others. A few disappeared entirely, and may have been "---- ate by cannibals; Or else, beyond the seas, Were scraped to death by oyster shells Among the Caribbees." Alas! poor fellows, it was a sweepstakes race for all comers. When   the final preparations were made, .and  the instructions came, the Juniata unmoored, got in her boats, the booms alongside, and with a single anchor under foot, she lay restlessly off the Castle, in readi-         H      h   TALES FOR TI-FE MARINES.      19 ness to sail with the first of the ebb tide on the morrow. I remember as. if it were yesterday how your kind grandmother there, who had come to see me off, sat,beside me at my last meal on shore; how the ripe strawherries which she urged me to eat were made bitter by her tears, for her heart was full, as was that of her child, and with one long, convulsive clasp to her bosom,- "Be a good boy, Harry;" "' Good by, dear mother,"r .- I turned and left. You too, Fred, will treasure up recollections such as these, though you may wonder, after thirty years of roving, why you should. " I believe I have not yet mentioned that, to my great delight, my faithful ally, old Kit Dolphin, had come on to the port, and regularly enlisted for the cruise in the corvette; and I may add that he soon won the good will of all on board. Before many weeks, owing to his skill as a seaman, he was made second captain of the forecastle. There, on every clear night, he had an eager audience around him, listening to his graphic yarns, or dancing the double shuffle to the music of his Virginia jigs played on a cornstalk fiddle. Amid all. his duties, too, he managed to take care of my ham- mock, and have an eye to my clothes, whenever they needed a stitch, which was not seldom. The morning after I had wiped away the tears which had wet my cheeks on parting from your grandmother, the cornet was flying from the fore of the Juniata,   a O     ITALES FOR THE MARINES. the anchor was tripped, and with the new sails spread to the yards, the ship for the first time felt their impulse, and obeying her helm, moved rapidly down the beauti- ful bay. 'There was a fleet of yachts and pilot boats, who eased off their sheets to try our rate,.as we dashed through the Narrows; but before we had rounded the Htook, they had hauled their wind, being satisfied, per- haps, that the colvette's heels were as long and nimble as their own. As the day waned, the high hills of Neversink fell in a bluish haze astern of us; and when the sun'sank like a globe of fire in the west, there was nought but sea and sky between my sad and aching gaze and the land of my birth. For some days after sailing, the wind proved unfavor- able, and we beat up on the inner edge of the Gulf Stream until we could get a fair start to cross it. I was stationed on the forecastle in the watch with my friend Jack Gracieux; and although I was sufficiently verdant, I soon discovered that there were others in that acropolis of the ship who were no wiser than myself. There was one incorrigiible greenhorn,' fresh from Vermont, who was a source of unfailing mirth; in which he, however, joined with as much good humor as the rest of us. One morning, as we were beating past the sandy hills of the Elizabeth Islands, he was perched on the lee cat- head, holding his head in both hands and groaning in spirit, when "Ready about!" sang out the lieutenant of the watch; and the quick chirrups of the boatswain's * ' .  '  c t   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       21 v mates piped, "Ready! ready!" t Helm's a-lee!" came from the trumpet as the ship came Up in the wind; and as the rolling sound of the whistles followed to ,( rise the head sheets," and no one moved to let them go, the cap- tain of the forecastle cried out in a hoarse voice, "Let go that jib sheet, will ye?" The disconsolate youth, - supposing himself to be the one addressed, yelled out in reply, "I ain't a-touchin' on it; why can't you let a feller be!" This speech created one universal roar around the' deck; but the seasick Vermonter resumed the hold on his head again, and never spoke until the ship had been tacked. Then, as she gathered way and the yards braced up, the officer again sang out through the trumpet, -"Haul the sheets flat aft, and trim her sharp." "Wall! I swow," exclaimed the youth, as he sprang up and shook his fist, "if that chap with the eppilettes ever talked that way to my gal, I'd spile his face in no time!"  "Come here, lad," said a hard- featured old whaler, in a kindly tone, in an attempt to draw off the gibes of the sailors, who were laughing near; " come here, boy; sit by me, and tell me where iyou hail from, and what's the trouble." "Wall," said the person addressed, " you sea-goin' folks hain't got no feelin', no how! I come from hum, and I wish to all fired smash I was back agin, doin' chores about the house, or hazin' round with Charity Bunker and the rest o' the gals at a squantum, instead of aboard this busted big boat, and livin' down there in them ,      * I -,         .    - . D     TALES FOR THE MARINES. holes of decks, and sleepin' with my heels up amongst the logs; and I jist like a tarnation fool come to sea to see sights; but I mout as well be in an oyster cellar, with the winders shet, for all the sights I'll ever see!" He bolted this speech out like a soliloquy, in a whine doleful enough to bring tears to one's eyes. As he concluded, however, there was a sly twinkle in the corners of the green boy's little eyes, while he in- dulged the sailors with these painful experiences, which might have indicated that he was not altogether so ver- dant as many supposed him to be. In fact, the old whaler screwed his lower jaw about considerably in the process of masticating his. tobacco, and rather hinted to one or two of his intimate friends that " that air boy was a liar, and no mistake;" but he continued in a louder key, with, "Shipmets, I was born and bred myself on the back of Cape Cod; and when I was a little sucker, like that eel boy on the anchor stock there, I used, when the season for mackerel was over, to sow beach grass all over the land, so as to keep the sand hills from blowing away; and the government gin the money, too, to pay' for the seed. In them days, I made a few vyges in the summer months, for rekeation, to Greenland, aboard a pink-starned schooner, arter seals; and once, by way of speculation,. I brought back some big dogs from them regions. But the climate hereabouts didn't seem to agree with them, for though we kept 'em all the time down in an icehouse, the animals died from heat, or want of -exposure p'haps."   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       23 "Very, sagacious creeters," chimed in an old salt, who was carefully laying up nettles for his hammock clews: "I know'd a dog once as would tell the time o' day by the skipper's nose, and would drink grog too like a Christian." " Bless ye," again broke out the gaunt, bony fisherman, "dogs isn't a circumstance to lobsters for sagaciousness! Why, mateys, I was on the pint of tellin' you, that after my trip to Greenland and the coast of Labrador, the old people thought I had 'bout sowed my wild oats." "( I thought you said grass," twanged in the young mountaineer; but the whaler, without deigning a glance at the cub, went on. "And I settled down stiddy at the lobster business. Nat Pochick and me was 'prentices in a smack for better nor five years, in war times too, until our time was out, when we bought the old smack at a bargain, and drove a lively trade in the same business. We used to take the lobsters, where the best on 'em comes from. along the moniment shore, down about Pdymouth, and we ran 'em through the Vineyard Sound to, York,' by way of Montauk. Well, one day, when we had the well of the schooner as full as ever it could stick with claws and feelers, like darned fools we tried to shorten the distance by runnin' outside of Nantucket; but jest as we got off Skonset,. what should we see but the old Ram- illies seventy-four, the admiral's ship, a-hidin' under Tom Nevers' Head; and in less than a minute an eighteen pound shot come spinnin' across our bows, and two big [       '         - (.   24      TALESt FOR THE MARINES. double-banked boats was making the water white as they pulled towards us. We know'd, as well as could be, that them Britishers didn't want the old smack, nor care a snap for the lobsters; but we- did believe sartin' that they wouldn't mind clappin' holdon two asih likely chaps as my partner and me, to sarve under thE king's flag. So we up helm and ran the smack and theargo slap on to the Old Man's Shoal; but jest afore she struck we jumped into the yawl, and paddled to the beach, were we saved being captured. Well, the smack was knocked into splinters by the breakers in less than an hour. Now, my hearties," said the whaler, as he paused and gazed around the group of listeners, ' every blessid one of them lobsters went back to the ground where they was took, as much as a hundred miles from the reef where the old craft was wracked! and there's great Black Dan, of Marshfield, will tell ye the same; for ye must bear in mind, that every fisherman has his partik- lar shaped pegs to chock the claws of the lobsters with, and every one of our lobsters was kitched agin with our Identical pegs in 'em! This, boys, was the last trip as ever we made in that trade, though Nat Pochick, out of fondness for the things, established himself on the old Boston bridge, where he is to this day, a-bilin', may be, five or six thousand lobsters of a mornin', which he sells off like hot cakes in the arternoons." "Tack ship " was the order again from the quarter deck, and the fisherman went to his station. That evening   )k TALES FOR THE MARINES.       25 the wind veered fair, and we struck into the Gulf Stream, where, as every one else does, if they remain there long enough, we caught a stiff gale, which lasted until we had run through the warm water to the other side. Then we groped about a few days in a nasty fog, when we emerged once more into open sea, and with dry flax overhead, and dry decks beneath our feet, we stood swiftly on our course. I shall have occasion; Fred, said the Lieutenant to his attentive young listener, to describe to you many characters in these sketches; but I must of course begin with the captain of the Juniata. He was a man over sixty, with hair as white as snow; had as handsome a face and regular features, and was as straight and proper a man in build, as you would care to see. Out of the sixty years he had lived, fifty had beenw passed at sea. He began, as you will remark, -quite early in life, and his first dip into the ocean was as a boy on board a fishing vessel on the banks of New- foundland. From there he took a leap to a coaster, worked his way tomnate of a trader to Europe; and on his return home was pressed, just out of port, on board an English- frigate, where he served during the French war, until he succeeded in making his escape. He then roved about every part of the known world, and among other adventures, once left the Leeward'Islands of the West Indies in a schooner with yellow fever on board. All the crew died, except himself and a hrge dog; and7 when, after six weeks drifting about the ocean, he was  3   26      TALES FOR THE MARINES. picked up off Pernambuco, the authorities threw him into prison on suspicion of piracy. When the war broke out in 1812, he entered the navy as sailing master, and for his gallantry was soon after promoted. He seemed to have been born a sailor, as he had been bred one, for even his enemies--and they were not few--ad- mitted that he was a very paragon of a seaman. He appeared to perceive by intuition all the exigencies and requirements of his profession, and in the five years that I sailed under him, I positively aver that in those matters I never knew him to make the smallest error in judgment. He was not a man of education, but of excellent natural parts, which- enabled him al- ways to appear creditably and make his flag respected. His temper, like that of all the old vikingirs, was not to be relied upon ; in other words, he was subject to the most ungovernable passion at times, chiefly about trifles; but on occasions of real danger, he was as cool as mar- ble, his faculties at full command, and his iron will the devil himself could not shake. lotwithstanding his very severe and often harsh conduct towards his crew, they fairly worshipped him; for they felt the master spirit of the sailor in his composition, and knew that he never gave an order that he could not perform himself. This is but a very imperfect outline of our captain, John Percy by name, but better known among sailors and in the ser'ice generally as Mad Jack. To return, after this long digression, to the'Juniata.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       27 -We had for ten days been reeling over towards the. Western Islands, with a fair wind and full sails, until we came within a hundred miles of the group, when the breeze died away, and left us half becalmed on the water. I had the morning watch, and was paddling about the wet decks in the sand and water, with my trousers rolled up, while the men were scrubbing and holystoning. There had been a little fog along the horizon when the day broke; but as the sun- rose it was dissipated, and we found ourselves within half a mile of a large merchant brig. The vessel was lying with her topsails on the caps, seemingly as if anxious to spare her canvas, in light winds or calms. There was a va- riable, baffling air ruffling about the ocean, and the brig was drifted down to within a cable's' length of the cor- vette; but not a soul was visible on board. Presently, however, the sharp chirp of the boatswain's mate's pipe, on. our decks, in executing some duty connected with trimming-the sails, appeared to arouse attention on board the stranger; for there suddenly sprang up over her rail a crowd of people, who began to utter vociferous yells, of which the principal words we caught were, ( thieves! murder! pirates!" "I'm blessed," said an old quartermaster on the lookout, as he methodically removed the spy glass from his cheek, (c if that 'ere craft' ain't manned -by women and monkeys."  The officer of the watch placed the trumpet to his lips, and sung out in the usual hail, \   v 28    TALES FOR THE MARINES. "Brig ahoy!"--"Pirates!" shouted a shrill voice in reply. c Silence!" he shouted again. "Murder!" replied a dozen voices. By this time the captain had come on deck, attracted by the noise; and giving a rapid glance at our neighbor, he said to the officer on duty, "Mr. Hansard, lower a boat, go on board that fellow, and find out what all this mum- mery means, for it seems to me to be Bedlam adrift." In less time than it takes to tell it, a cutter was dropped from the quarter; I took the tiller; the boat shoved off, and in a minute we were alongside the stranger. She was a large, lumbering merchantman, with the barnacles and grass hanging in clusters and shreds from her copper and sides, while aloft every thing denoted the utmost confusion. We clambered up by the main chains, and reaching the rail, we saw that the hatches had been broken open, the contents of bales and packages strewn about, water casks stove on deck, ropes and rigging cut and dangling overhead, while the sails had been torn and hacked bodily from the yards and booms. We took in all this at a glance as we swung over the bulwarks; and casting our eyes on the quarter deck, the first object that met our gaze was a man stretched out at full length, on the raised trunk which was constructed in the after part of the vessel, with his head resting on a pillow, while his shirt and hair were stiff with blood. He was blue and pallid, and breathed with difficulty. On the transoms abaft were two more bodies, covered   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       29 over with a fragment of old canvas. The faces were not visible, but there was a bare foot projecting, rigid and lifeless, from beneath the coarse shroud, and the deck was stained all around with half-dried clots of blood. There' was a thin, delicate woman, seated on a hen- coop, at the water ways, crying and moaning piteously, while she clasped to her bosom a child's small beaver hat, with a feather drooping white and red on one side of it. There was also an ugly cut in the little hat, which showed but too plainly that some cruel work had been going on with the innocent little head within it. Around the decks were nearly a dozen women, all talking, screaming, and crying together. After com- manding a moment's silence amid the hubbub and noise going on, Hansard approached the man lying on the trunk, whose eyes seemed to beckon him to come near, and stooping beside the poor fellow, he asked in a sooth- ing tone, 6"Are you the master of this brig? and what has been the cause of all this horrid work? 'I The man slowly nodded to the first question, and then with a-gut- tering gasp, as if the words were partly escaping from his throat, painfully murmured, "She's the Arabella, one hundred and thirty-two days from   Sidney, New South Wales, with a few return female convicts aboard. Last night boarded by a Spanish pirate-- brig-- killed all, I believe, but the women, and robbed the cargo.*' Here he paused, and then, with a gurgling rattle of his- 3*   s0 o     TALES FOR THE MARINES. lungs, he whispered, "My throat is cut; I want a surgeon." "Keep quiet, my good fellow, for five seconds," exclaimed Hansard, as he sprang with a bound over the bulwarks into the cutter; and with an urgent order to the crew, the oars dipped into the water, and. the boat bounded like a javelin back to the corvette. Mean- while, I did all in my power to assuage the grief of the women, and comfort them with the assurance that help would soon be sent on board; and in fact, the boat re-. turned immediately with the surgeons and captain, and they were soon followedby the hospital steward and his assistants, with bandages, instruments, and restoratives. A gleam of pleasure lighted up the eyes of the poor skipper; but I heard the surgeon say to the captain, as he turned away from bathing a dreadful gash in his throat, "The man has lost too much blood; I fear I can't ? save him; however, we'll try. Here, younker," he said to me, c keep his head firm, while I sew up this wound." Accordingly, I kneeled down and carefully smoothing back his matted hair, where there was another long gash which laid bare the skull, the doctor began to pass the needle. At this -moment, the poor fellow's eyes rolled frightfully, and uttering, "My wife - Nelly dear,"- , a convulsion shook his frame, the threads snapped, and the blood began to gurgle from his throat.  The surgeon, however, made another trial, and had -nearly finished sewing up the gap, when the wounded -L'I   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       31 skipper was again seized with violent convulsions, and with his teeth rasping and grating together, he struggled for a minute in our grasp, until, with prodigious exer- tion, he arched his body upwards, resting upon his heels and head, and then, with one deep-drawn respiration, a dark volume of blood burst from his mouth and throat, and he fell stone dead upon the deck. The hot salt shower cov- ered my face, and was driven down my throat through my half-open mouth. I had just strength left to save myself from falling in a fainting -fit, as an active little Irishman, named Mickey Maginnis, dashed a bucket of sea water all over me, exclaiming, "There, thin, my darlint of a doctor, it's salts you're wantin' to revive ye;" and then leading me to a seat on the transoms, I silently re- garded the melancholy scene before me. In the course of researches in the lower part of the vessel forward, two -men were ferreted out, more dead than alive, not, however, from wounds or maltreatment, Abut from abject fear; and indeed it was some minutes before they felt assured that we did not mean them mischief. After a patient investigation, nothing of con- sequence could be gleaned from them, either descrip- tive of the vessel which had boarded them, or the ap- pearance of the pirates themselves. We learned that the brig was bound to England, and that the crew con- sisted of nine men, who had all, with two exceptions, been killed or thrown overboard. The women were exceedingly communicative; but even they could give us  322     TALES FOR THE MARINES. no clew to the detection of the villains who had com- mitted the atrocity. All they could remember was,  that while the vessel lay becalmed, late in the evening, two boats came alongside, crowded with armed men, and speaking a language they did not understand; that they immediately began breaking open the 'hatches, but not finding nuch of value, they broached a puncheon of spirits, and then, after stabbing and killing the crew, ill using the women, and putting what they wanted in their i water casks, they finally cut the rigging and sails, stove the boats, and went away. While this narration was going on in detached sen- tences, - for it was next to impossible to prevent fewer than three of the women talking at once, - the forlorn creature whom I first observed sitting on the hencoop, absorbed in grief, suddenly turned up her blood-shot eyes, with a black defined ring beneath. the sockets, to the captain's face, and with a-wild energy, as if she was trying to shut out something frightful from her visionr she exclaimed, "' Yes, sir, I can give you some informa- tion about the wretches. When they stabbed the poor mate, who lies dead there under the sail, and while my darling little innocent Charley tried to avert the murder- ous blows, the villain who seemed to be the leader of the band snatched him from my side, and nearly cut the child's head in two. I saw from the light from the box there," pointing to the binnacle, now capsized and the  compass destroyed, "that he had a heavy scar from his   TALES FOR THE MARINES.    :   33  ear to his chin; and when he tore my poor, dying, gasp- ing boy from my arms and threw him into the sea, I saw by the light of the moon, as I looked to see the last of my child, the word ' Clara' painted on one of their boats." Here the poor creature sobbed in very anguish, and clasping the little hat, wet with her offspring's life blood, to her heart, she cried, " O my God, my God! to kill my boy!" Old Percy's eyes gleamed like Congreve rockets, as he took the suffering and bereaved woman kindly by the hand, and seating himself beside her, tried to allay her grief, while the fierce looks and set teeth of the Juniata's men, as they stood grouped together in deathke silence, plainly showed what would be the fate of the villains in the event of a rencounter. "Holy mother!" said Mickey Maginnis, as he crossed himself and raised his clinched hands and eyes aloft; "but," he added, savagely, " be Jasus, the time 'll come yet, boys." "Be a good prophet, Mickey, and we'll make 'em. all spout blood," broke in the whaler, as he stood with his arms locked tight together, gazing upon the pinched blue face of the dead skipper; "I'd give a year's arn- ings jest to be laid bows on to the chap as did that." We were left to conjecture the direction in which the pirate had steered; but as no time was to be lost, a large gang of hands were forthwith sent from the corvette.   34      TALES FOR, THE MARINES. The rigging of the brig was spliced, a fresh suit of sails bent, gear rove, and after decently burying the dead, supplying the vessel with provisions, water, and a few cormforts for the women, a crew was put on board of her in charge of a mate, and he was ordered to proceed to England, and deliver her up to the owners. Here the narrator drew a long breath, after his exer- tions, and desired his audience not to allow the interest and excitement of the story to destroy their sleep until :! opportunity should offer for resuming it. !}; '(               S   CHAPTER II. THE Lieutenant was again at his post, and with his ever-attentive little nephew beside him, he picked up the thread of his yarn, bowed to the ladies, and thus began: -- The duty of refitting the English brig detained us nearly all day; but towards night a breeze sprang up, and parting with our lonely consort, we made all sail, and steered to the eastward, intending to look into the Azores. The following morning we ran between the high mountainous islands of this picturesque group, lay a few hours at Fayal, and then, with the anchors again at the bows, we bore away for Madeira. I shall never forget, Fred, my first peep at that lovely island. I was swinging, away up aloft, at the slings of the foretopsail yard, when we made the land- a dark, dim outline at first ; but by and by the bluff prom- ontories rose in their green and lovely freshness, and rolling back stretched upwards the corrugated faces of the mountains, with their summits clear, while just be- low lay fringed, in graceful folds of clouds, a snowy mantle, like a point lace berthe around a woman's shouIr ders. Then, as we edged in closer to the land, while    36      TALES FOR THE MARINES. the vineyards and gardens, and picturesquely posed houses and churches, became more plainly visible, and the sea embroidering the black rocks -with sparkling l foam at their feet, I fancied that at last I beheld the true realms of enchantment, and would perhaps have continued in the delusion, had not I heard the loud summons of "-Hands, bring ship to anchor," and very  a expeditiously tripped down the rigging to my station. !D That afternoon we came to in the Roads of Funchal-- an exposed anchorage at best, out of which ships are obliged not unfrequently to make a bolt, with the wind from the southward, as had been the case with one of a our own cruisers the day preceding our arrival. We had the pleasure, however, of attending a beautiful ball, designed for her, on which occasion we flattered ourselves a that the providers of the entertainment did not distinguish I any difference between the officers of the two ships. As you may imagine, I was ready a full hour before the appointed time; with hair brushed as smooth as  glass, a bit of shirt collar just peering over my little blue dress coat, white trousers, and pumps.     X The captain had gone on shore early in the after-' noon to dine, and I was to follow at eight o'clock. Accordingly I stepped into the gig, and bidding the  j cockswain to " strike out," the long ashen oars bent as they plied the waves, in pulling into the landing. Now, you must know that there are several landings J in Funchal-one near the castle, and another on the  i   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      37 beach abreast the town; and as the latter chanced to be to my taste, I decided to disembark there. Well, aided by oars, wind, and sea, not many minutes elapsed before the gig's keel touched the sand, and I sprang with a bound of delight, as I hoped, upon the Island of Madeira; but, to my horror, I leaped plump upon the point of the bayonet of a Portuguese soldier; and his gruff hail of "Who goes there?" in his own lingo, greeted my astonished senses, as I was hurled backwards into the dirty seaweed and water, rolling over and over upon the brink of the surf. I recovered my legs, knee deep in water, just in time to perceive a boat hook describe a rapid gyration in the air, and to hear the sound of a sharp crack, as it brought up with stunning force against the head and red cap of the warrior, who had receivedme on the end of his bayonet, while, with an irate roar, the cockswain of the boat ground out, between his- teeth, "Ye dam kiar Portingee garlic eatin' swab, take that!" In a moment the boat's crew leaped on shore, and with the blades of their sixteen feet oars kept- a wide circle clear, while the cockswain picked me up in his stalwart arms, and found that the padding of my little uniform coat had saved me from all harm save a ducking. The sentry had only time .to, utter one yell for suc- cor before he was stretched speechless on the beach; but ill a moment down came running a squad of soldiers, with an officer at their side, and, upon a parley being 4  38      TALES FOR THE MARINES. sounded, it was explained to us that we were supposed to be smugglers, from our having landed at the wrong place; and accordingly, in company with the bruised sentinel, I was escorted to the guard house. There, a 4 message having been despatched to our consul,a clerk was deputed to see me released from durance; and shortly afterwards I was ushered into a spacious bedroom at the consulate, divested of my saturated sandy raiment, attired in a suit of brown linen, a thousand sizes too big for me, and pronounced in excellent rig for the ball. Thereupon I was led to the dining hall, where, a chair being placed for me beside the genial host, and the incident attending the rent in my little dress coat narrated, I was regaled with wine and fruit, until the crash of the violins and tooting of the flageolets in the ball room gave signal for leaving the table.  I shall ever bear in mind that beautiful ball room, festooned with the rarest and richest wreaths and ropes of roses, and decorated with tall vases filled with bril-  liant leaves and flowers - then the soft music, and the  charming women with twinkling feet, the chicken soup handed round in teacups at the close, the palanquins standing ready in the court yards; and when the partings ; were made, the sweet smiles, the kind looks, the basket-  work of fingers, the murmured adieus,-all has rested on my memory as never a ball has since. Of a verity, the next morning, when I had been routed out from the snow-white dimity of the little iron    TALES FOR THE MARINES.         39 bedstead where I had passed the night, dreaming de- liciously, and when I had again mounted my linen jacket, which reached to my knees, and was seated at breakfast beneath the broad, cool, and fragrant arbor of vines; where the heavy clusters of grapes hung so lus- ciously and temptingly in their juicy husks over my head, I still had no thoughts or ears for aught else save the satin slippers whirling around the ball room, the intoxicating music, ("Wine, you mean," said one of the ladies of the party to the Lieutenant,) and the spar- kling eyes which flashed so brightly the night before. We were but a few   days at Madeira, and all the time I lived as it were in   an Elysium  of delight. When we came to bid good-by to the kind consul, the fruit and the wines, with the last notes of the military bands resting on our ears, and finally when we sailed away from the fertile slopes of Funchal, and the pilot, with his little peaked red cap, went over the side, I felt as if I had lost my best friend on earth. I recovered, however, as I am   led to believe most others do from the like disorder, and the next day, you would, perhaps, have been surprised to see with what avidity I could sit down to enjoy the steaming lobscouse, and " flapjacks " laid before us on our mess table. * "Then there is a thing called wheaten floure, which the cookes do mingle with water, egges, spice, and other tragicall, magicall inchantments; and then they put it by little and little into a frying pan of boiling -suet, where it makes a confused, dissmall hissing, dike the Lernsen snakes in the reeds of Acheron, Styx, or Plegeton,) untill at last, by the skill of the TALES FOR THE MARINES.  The second day out I had the morning watch; and as the men were clearing up the ropes, previous to washing down the decks, "Sail ho!" sung out the look- out from the foretopsail yard. Before the words of "Where away?" had fairly passed the lips of the officer of the watch, "Sail ho!" again cried the man, with a full, melodious voice, as if he did not have a chance every day of airing that organ, and wished to make the most of the present opportunity. "Where away?" was repeated, through the trumpet. "Two points on the starboard bow, sir." "D'ye make her out?"  "Yes, sir, a brig on the wind, on the port tack." "And the other?  "Here away, on the port beam, a small fellow, sir, looks like a felucca." "Very good," said the officer of the watch: "Young gentleman, report two sails in sight to the captain." The trade wind, as usual in these latitudes, had died away with the rising sun; the corvette had out all her port steering sails, which sagged and bagged down, without their bellies full, as she sauntered leisurely upon the water; while the crests of the lazy waves toppled over with a swash, as they broke against the sides or counter. By nine o'clock it was almost calm, although the trade clouds began to puff up like the cheeks of Cupid, clearly indicating that we should have a steady strain on cooke, it is transformed into the forme of a Flip Jack, cal'd a pancake, which otiii$us incantation the ignorante people doe devoure very gree- dilye." ./aylor, the Water Poet. ' is 'i* *    the canvas, when the declining sun should go over the foreyard, after meridian The small vessel, meanwhile, had tacked, and laying across the little wind there was, she felt it sensibly, and came down under our quarter, where she hoisted Eng- lish colors and pennant. She proved to be a large cut- ter, with a braee of jibs, running a mile out beyond her bows, and a great mainsail and gafftopsail, which made a shade on the water twice as big as her hull. As the cross of St. George came dancing gayly out in the sun- light, the tack of her mainsail was triced up, like a gull with its wing broke, the gafftopsail fell becalmed in wake of the mainsail, the outermost jib rattled down, while the inner one was hauled to windward  all in ship-shape, man-of-war style; and there she lay with her heavy straight up and down bow, black wales, and red ribbon around her side, evidently wishing to com- municate. The other vessel was still a great way off, and standing on the same course as when she had been first reported. In courtesy to our little friend, our own ensign was run up, a boat lowered, and I was sent on board to offer any marine courtesies that might be desired. I was charged also with a small packet of letters, which are always kept ready by the spooney chaps of a ship, for a chance to send to their sweethearts. The weather was quite warm; and shading my eyes with my cap, I lay back in the stern sheets, shoved off, "    4  -h, ,Af LiiJaD r 'U I1i'D livAiD LXUN Ao and soon ran alongside the cutter. A pair of snow- white linan ropes were dangling over the side, which I grasped, and sticking my toes into the battens, I gained  the rail and stepped on deck. An awning was spread fore and aft, striped with blue and white, and scolloped gayly around the overhanging curtains. As I raised my  cap, on touching the vessels deck, I was received by a tallish chap, - evidently not a seaman, - who appeared to me a cross between a pastry cook and a hair dresser. He was clothed in white duck trousers, with a napkin stuck in the waisthand, a profusely ruffled shirt, a blue  jacket covered with pearl buttons, as thick as peas, and a natty straw hat, cocked on one side of a mass of oiled and scented ringlets. Forward of the mast were a score of fine, handsome, bushy-whiskered sailors, attired after a similar fashion to the person who received me, with the exception of the napkin and jacket, but with the addition of a broad black ribbon around their hats, on which was marked, in gilt letters, the word "Hilde- brand." Over each bow was a small popgun of a brass swivel, burnished like gold, more, however, for show than use. In other respects the vessel appeared a good, wholesome craft, and she was as neat as a pin. "Can I see the captain?"I asked, as I bowed to the individual with the perfumed curls. Certainly, sir,"  he said with extreme and even patronizing politeness, and  an attempt to conceal a smile-" step this way, sir-  down the companion way there, sir." So, seizing a round   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       43 brass,baluster, I took half a turn down the 'mahogany stairs, when a bell sounded, and a polished door swung backftmeans of a little elf of a miniature sailor, whose hand could hardly reach up to the door knob. He-was so very small a specimen, and withal so accurately rigged in sailor costume, that-albeit I was of no great bulk myself in those days - started back from the pretty pygmy in absolute surprise. "Don't be afraid of Boatswain Baby, sir," I heard a sweet voice exclaim; " he's not in the least vicious; walk in and be seated.' Recovering myself a little, I stepped into an elegantly furnished saloon, with comfortable sofas and lounges every where, a rose wood cabinet piano, and a roll of India matting on the deck, while a lady's work table stood in a recess, and parasols, sun bonnets, and other feminine gear were strewn- around. The sides of the apartment were of pure white marble paint, and they shone like porcelain, while gqlden- rimmed panels were let in with exquisite medallion pictures. The saloon was lighted by a long, i'aised sky- light from the deck above, shaded by rich green silk curtains, while two massive lamps, confined by neat brass frames, swung at either end. After the severe simplicity of a man-of-war's furniture a4d fittings, the display of this little floating palace rather bewildered me; and as I glanced up into the face of the tall and beautiful woman who stood before me, I stamm red ott, "This, I believe, is his majesty's packet  a --   "      TALES FOR THE MARINES. "O, no," replied the lady; " quite a mistake; it is my majesty's yacht, Hildebrand. I am the Countess Bel- lina. My husband, poor man, I left the other day at Madeira, in ill health, and I am now, as you see, on a cruise by myself."  She said all this in a breath, took me by the hand, and patting my head, she led me to a . seat, so that, not being a lad of much natural diffidence, I felt at home in a moment.   "Here, boatswain," she added, "C take this officer's sword, and touch the gong for Kitty." The small sailor threw his fist up to his little chip hat, out of respect to the mandate, obeyed the order with considerable alacrity, and presently there came a tap, at a lattice-work door, which led forward,  and the handsome hostess, excusing herself a moment, Went ott, leaving me to be entertained by the boatswain.  She had scarcely closed the door, however, before I heard her say, in audible whispers, "Kitty, I've a Yankee reefer on board. He looks half starved, poor  little' thing, and you may lay some luncheon in the  dining room--a bit of cake and a glass of sangaree. I'll engage he'll eat it." I listened to this brief harangue, I must admit, with a slight touch of indignation; but when the lovely skip- per returned, she looked so charming, and smiled andl chatted so pleasantly, that- I soon forgot it. In a few  moments she asked me to attend her to the dining room, and passing through a curtained doorway on the oppo- site side of the saloon, we entered an apartment whki h                  , 1=   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       45 occupied the entire beam' of the vessel, ranged around with sideboards, and swinging wicker-work cases filled with crystal goblets, china, and other appurtenances for eating and drinking, in great profusion. There were quantities of large cane-built chairs, and settees too, and a neat canvas windsail, with four legs, which poured refreshing currents of air around, from the main trunk above the deck. The boatswain followed close at our heeis, astride of my sword, which he seemed to be delighted with; and though he tripped himself up several times .it did not in the least destroy his zest for the amusement Presently there came another tap at a lattice door, wjich the boat- swain again assisted in tugging open, and in came as tidy a little craft as ever danced over the ocean. She carried in her hands a  large silver waiter, crowded with great bunches of grapes, yellow sugar bananas, green avocado pears, ripe figs embalmed in their own dewy leaves, while a bottle of claret reared his black neck, in a vio- lent cold perspiration, flanked by a bulbous-shaped !arthen vessel which I  shrewdly surmised contained angaree. But this tempting  repast was not to corm- ,are with the pretty Kitty herself. By jingo! such a all, rounded counter the witch had, and such-a mass of frown tresses twisted around her elegantly-formed head, ver two. roguish eyes and a   rosy mouth; but such a air of cat-heads!  "Cat what?"  ejaculated Fred's     1 randmother, as she was listening attentively to this   d0 .     TAJLES FUOR 'i'HE MA lINESl. 'extraordinary narrative. "It's'a nautical phrase, ma'am," rejoined -the Lieutenant; and he went on rapidly with the thread of his narrative. Well, there I sat, chatting with the lovely captain in petticoats, stowing away bread and cheese, cake and fruit, and- between whiles swigging at the claret and sangaree, for the Lord only knows how long. Just as I began to reflect that nature  abhorred a vacuum, and that my own was nearly full, and that peradventure, it would be pleasant to take a little snooze on one of the luxurious sofas of the saloon bang! I heard a loud report from a heavy gun, that seemed to have been fired with a forty-two pound shot slap into my ear. I sprang off the cane-built chair like a rocket. "Why, what can that be?" exclaimed my fair companion, as she pulled a cord. overhead, and the : face of the man in the pearl button jacket appeared at ; the side of the glass skylight. "Steward, what noise i  was that? ' "If you please, milady," he replied with a simper, " the cockswain of the boat alongside says as g 'ow there's been a signal flying ever so long for the little officer to return to the ship, and no attention being paid to it, they've fired a gun; and, milady, there seems to be  a bobbery on board of the man-of-war too."      l "O0 Lord!" said I, with a sigh from the very bottom of my heart, as I made a plunge for my sword, and upset. the small boatswain in the effort, "won't I catch it!" ".No, no! never feir, my child," said the beauteous skipper; "your captain won't be such a very terrible.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       47  old Turk as to chide you for obeying the orders of a lady on the high seas; and here," she added, as she hastily snatched up a large envelope, and pushed anews- paper inside of it, and then quickly scribbled an address' upon the back; " tell the 'captain," she continued, "that I detained you to write this important despatch to the admiral, and if he chance to fall in with him, I wish he would be so good as to see it carefully delivered. It will be a grateful surprise, no doubt," she added, with a light, merry laugh; '" for the despatch is highly im- portant, and I never saw the- admiral in all my life."' Then resuming with a more serious tone, she said, C Give my compliments to your captain, and say that there was a very suspicious looking vessel, my people think, on our track last night, and she was seen again down to leeward early this morning. There! that will do," as she shook me heartily by the flipper; "now go; but not that way, my young friend," as she perceived me moving in the wrong direction; "the other door, there; Kitty will show you the stairs." I don't precisely remember how the affair happened, I was so confused and dumbfounded by the sangaree, and the fears of a reprimand from the fierce old Percy. I believe, however, that when I reached the companion- way, the yacht gave a-lurch at the moment, and to save myself from falling, I .precipitated myself into the pretty mate's arms, and then, in my panic, I clasped my own around her neck, and in the most brotherly manner    48      TALES FOR THE MARINES.          ! began to kiss her. I remember that she gave a little scream as I tore myself away; and as I tumbled over the side into my boat, I heard the gentle Kitty exclaim to her mistress, "Well, milady, if all them Yankee ! middies have half the imperence of that little chap, they had better be weaned before they go home."  "Sensible young woman," observed one of the matrons around the table. "Quite so," chimed in the other ladies in a low chorus. "Fred," said the Lieutenant, as he directed his conversation to the lad, "Fred, I am X willing to avow that nature has blessed me with an affec- tionate disposition; but it. is equally true that in the whole course of my existence, so great has been my  X propriety, that I never even attempted to offer a chaste salute to a chambermaid." "Without getting your face slapped," suggested a pert young minx beside the nar- rator., So the amiable Lieutenant, feeling convinced it was useless to stem the current of opinion running so strongly against him, without concluding the moral maxims he was about to impart to his nephew, proceeded m without more ado with his adventures. On leaving the Hildebrand, I looked around for the Juniata, and beheld her a mile off, with the men laying on the starboard yard arms, while the studdingsail booms were out and their sails hanging with the stops uncut over them. The corvette's course had been al- tered, and I could perceive a man at each masthead, and one fellow like a black ball, perched on the main    TALES FOR THE MARINES.        49 truck. There was still but little wind, although the flaws were beginning to darken the--smooth sea in patches, and the trade clouds to move briskly. I never cast a glance at the snug little yacht behind me, so much was my mind occupied with the row. which I felt assured was in store for me on board my own ship; but I've often thought, since, what a lucky incident it was, our falling in with her; for Heaven only knows what an awful fate might have befallen those helpless women, had the wily villain, who nearly had them in his jaws, escaped us. As it turned out, the probability is, that they never heard more of the matter, or, perhaps, if they did, the shy little mate has forgiven the innocent caresses I gave her. I pulled alongside the corvette, and with my knees knocking together, I mounted the side, touched my cap, and reported my return to the first lieutenant, who, trumpet in hand, was giving orders at the gangway. "Go and report to the captain, Mr. Gringo," said that functionary, as he brushed me off like a mosquito, with his broad Guayaquil sombrero. The cabin doors stood wide open, and as I entered I beheld old Percy near the chart table, carefully adjust- ing a spy glass and trying it for a focus. "Well, sir, what has kept you?" jerked out the skipper, as he closed a joint of the telescope with a crash.. ,A lady, sir,9"I faltered out. "O, she did! : Well, that alters the case. But what did a lady :keep such 5    50      TALES FOR THE' MARINES. a little monkey as you for, eh?" Here I produced the large brown despatch, on which was written, in startling characters, 4"To Admiral Blue Blazes, His Britannic Majesty's flagship- Spitfire, off the Bight of Benin." After a narrow inspection of this document, the captain gave a hearty chuckle, as he pitched it into the clerk's desk, saying, with a laugh, as if talking to himself, "I fear that officer serves in too warm latitudes for me to play postman; but may be he's acquainted with the Flying Dutchman, and if I fall in with that gentleman, I'll ask him as a particular favor to deliver it without scorching his fingers." The countess also told me to tell you, sir," said I, "that they had seen a suspicious vessel, which tried to overhaul the yacht yesterday, but the  1 wind was too light for her to' come up." "The devil she did," ejaculated my superior; "and like a sensible woman, she kept the most important intelligence for the X postscript!"As I communicated the message, however,   the old man blazed up like a pine torch, and bidding   me follow him, he seized the spy glass, and took his way forward. As he passed the first lieutenant, he said,  LX "Hope, be all ready to flood the ship with canvas." "All ready, sir," replied the officer; and on we went ' amid the groups of men to the forecastle, where we    found Kit Dolphin leaning against the fore-swifter, tranquilly enjoying his Virginia tobacco; for Christo- ;; pher chewed that pernicious weed as if the life and soul of the trade depended upon his individual efforts. i   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       51 The captain handed the glass to the old negro, who slung it by its strap over his shoulder, when we all three mounted the fore rigging, cleared the top, and never paused until we gained the topsail yard, which lay square, with the wind aft. I ensconced myself at the slings, while the captain and Kit balanced themselves on either side of me. After a moment's rest, old Jack Percy turned round, and speaking down into the top, asked, " Who first saw that vessel ahead?"  "WWilliams, sir," promptly re- plied the captain of the top. "Send him up here." And presently there was a little stir on the deck beneath us, which, from the great height at which we were, seemed no wider- than the blade of a case-knife; and soon after, an active seaman came dancing up the shrouds, until he reached the eyes of the topmast rig- ging, where he touched his hat to the captain, and waited orders.  "Williams, how was that fellow stand- ing when you first made him?"Across our forefoot, so fashion, sir, on the same tack with the cutter," said the sailor, as he pointed with his tar-stained hand in the proper direction.  "And when  did she tack?" re- joined old Percy. ', Not till nigh four bells, sir. When she see the yacht there astarn heave to, then she hove in stays, and went right about, sir." The vessel in question was about six miles off, and was apparently creeping up to the wind, on the starboard tack, as if intent upon letting us pass, go that he might be left to his own devices.    t52F    TALES FOR THE MARINES. CaptainSPercy rested his spy glass on the topmast stay, and, gazing long and earnestly, soliloquized as he spoke, "Very long in the legs, certainly; square bit of canvas that main topsail; O, ho! and lets his courses fall to- gether; he's after ebony, perhaps! Here, Dolphin, take a squint, and tell me what you make of her." The old black took the glass, closed his white eye, and screwing the corner of his mouth up to the rim of the brass tube, he steadied himself on the yard, and after a moment's glance, spoke out. "Ay, sir, he's getting his staysails up, and awnings down; and, de Lord, sir! I sees Me shine of a long brass gun amidships; dere, it's kivered over again;- he's no man-of-war, that's sartin." "On deck, there," rung out the clear voice of old Percy. "Sir!" came up from the trumpet. "Take in all the port studding sails, and bring the ship by the wind on  the starboard tack." ' The breeze had by this time come up fresh and steady, and in a few minutes the change in the cor- vette's course and canvas had been effected, and with all drawing sail she was bowling to windward, parallel   f with the brig, at the rate of nine knots. For an hour we continued on this course; but as the  trade began to increase, the royals were furled, and even- then we found that we were forereaching the stranger ! Without much of an effort. Soon as the brig discovered that she stood no chance with us on that point, she gradually fell off, until she    TALES FOR THE MARINES.      53 brought the wind a-beam; and finding that even that change would not do, she at last struck away dead be- fore it, and spread her wings to their fullest extent. The sun went down clear and brilliant, and the white moon rose at its setting, so that we never lost sight of our chase, and both ships went skimming over the water, with their broad arms straining the yielding hulls. Since the brig had brought the wind aft, there had been no perceptible difference between the speed of the two vessels, and old Percy chafed like a chained bull-dog. Things, however, went on as usual during the night; bright lookouts were kept upon the stranger, and: the corvette was steered with great care. At daylight the next morning, we were about three miles astern of the brig, and we could now distinctly make her out to be a low, black vessel, with great beam, very heavily sparred, and from the rapid way in which she performed her evolutions, evidently well manned, though very few men were visible on her ,decks. She seemed, too, to have thoroughly made up her mind that the Juniata was a constable of the high sea , and there- fore evinced a decided disinclination to make our nearer acquaintance. Towards ten in the morning, the wind again became light, and we looked forward to another interval of calm. The forcing pumps, however, were rigged, and the water was spouted over the great spread of canvas from the' trucks down. a     54      TALES FOR THE MARINES. (s We shall have a snorter this afternoon," -muttered old Jack, rubbing his paws joyfully; " the trade wind always blows fresh for three days, just like three heavy rollers on a beach; and then, niy fine fellow," said he, jerking his head in the direction of the chase, "we'll see, perhaps, what you're made of." Wetting the canvas and changing slightly the trim of the ship gave us the advantage of another good stride nearer the brig ; and now she was not more than a couple of miles off. We could see that they were not asleep on board of her either, and that they saw the advantage we had gained; at times, too, we could see a splash on the water, as if bulky articles were tossed overboard, and a pair of hands were aloft on each mast, drawing buckets of water from the yard arms in emulation of our engine. "' Very uncivil chap that," said the sailing master, as  he stood measuring her distance from the t6p gallant forecastle; "won't shake hands with us." "He may have the yellow fever, perhaps, and fears to infect us," suggested the marine officer. "Or," added Jack Gra- cieux, who was standing near, " she is, may be, loaded with X tailors, who owe some of us money, and are not anxious to pay it." "Hope," said the captain, "( send the sig- nal quarter master here, with half a dozen ensigns of ! different nations, and possibly we may find out who that sly fellow's mother is."  By and by, the signal man came forward with a   * TALES FOR THE MARINES. 3     55 great bag of bunting, and tumbling the flags out upon the deck, touched his hat respectfully, and paused for in- structions. "Try him," said the first lieutenant, "s with that pretty castle of Dona Maria, and run it up at. the fore, for he can't see it from the peak." Aloft went the ball, until it reached the truck, when it fell out in flut- tering folds. "' Prompt fellow that," exclaimed Jack Gracieux, as a similar flag flew up at the gaff of the stranger, " but he certainly can't be such a lubber as to take this clipper corvette for a Portingee." "Haul down that ensign, and' show him a white cross of St. George."   Up went the bunting of Mr. Bull; but before it' had fairly reached the mast head, our own stars and stripes were flaunting, like a red-hot gridiron, at his peak. "Halloo!" continued Jack Gracieux; " that fellow has got all the face cards in the pack; but I think he's trumped his own trick this hitch."   "That will do, Hope," chuckled the captain with a grin; " the breeze is coming up in earnest; so clear away one of those 'mid- ship guns, and run the long eighteerns out of the bridle ports, and have a few shot at hand, for I think we shall have to communicate with that gentleman." "'All ready --with the gun," said the officer of the watch.  "Then hoist our colors and, pennant, and fire as you break stops."   The loud report of the blank car; tridge from the thirty-two pounder in the waist had no   56      TALES FOR THE MARINES. other effect upon the brig than to make her haul down the American ensign, and with great expedition hoist the yellow flag of Spain. {c Too late," sung out Jack Gracieux; " you've revoked, and the best plan for you to pursue now," he added with a laugh, apostrophizing her, c" is to throw up the game, and have a new deal." "Twelve o'clock, sir," reported the sailing master, touching his visor to the captain. Very good, sir; strike eight bells, and give the men their dinner. Mr. Gracieux," he added to my handsome friend at his side, CC will you have the kindness to send an eighteen pound shot after that individual, and let him know that I will pay my respects to him this evening, or to- X morrow?"                       I "With all the pleasure in the world, sir,'" replied ? the polite mate, as he placed one hand on his heart,   and raised his janty cap with the other, exposing a   i mass of locks, as glossy and black as jet, which a queen : might have envied. Forthwith he went under the top- - gallant forecastle, and a few minutes after, -the flame belched forth from the -muzzle of the gun, the ringing ; sound followed, and looking far ahead, we saw the shot dip into the water like a black pill, ricochet once or twice, and-disappear a good way short of the chase. Even this did not disturb her equanimity, but on she went like a pigeon. "' Repeat that experiment 'every time the bell strikes,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      57 Mr. Gracieux, until further orders." And so saying, old Percy snapped his toothpick and left the forecastle. Although we had sensibly gained on the brig, having proved the swiftest vessel on all tacks, and were con-, gratulating ourselves on soon coming up with her, yet what was the surprise created throughout the Juniata, towards four o'clock, when it was discovered that she had taken a sudden flight, and was leaving us rapidly in her wake! At the same time, fragments of boxes, bales of merchandise, and one or two heavy spars, came drifting by, while with the glass we could see them starting water also. Then old Mad Jack finally woke up. c Pipe down one watch with their hammocks," he said to the first lieutenant, e" and make every man take a couple -of thirty- two pound shot in his clews; start eight or ten thousand gallons of water, and heave overboard fifteen tons of bal- last; lighten the ship as much as possible; slack the lan- yards of the lower rigging a few inches, and loosen the wedges round the partners of the masts; let the top- men sling themselves in grummets from the fore and aft stays, and give some spring to the -ship, and, sir, get out, the maintopmast studding sails, and let fall the mainsail;e we'll try her with more canvas amidships, and hook shot along the foot of the courses, and let the sails stand flat as boards; then keep the people quiet." These orders were executed as fast as magic, and bee fore an hour had passed the additional sail had been   J(     'TAl'tALtES FOURS T'1HE, MARINEJS.  crowded on the corvette, the ballast, gone, and the water pumped out, the greater part of the crew in their ham- mocks; while on the stays, from the topmast heads down,- thirty or forty fellows were sitting, as it were, like ring- tailed monkeys, on their own tails. The consequence of these movements was. that the Juniata became as lively as a bottle of quicksilver, and began again to lessen the gap between her and the chase. The brig, too, had become visibly lighter and more buoyant, and she rose and careered over the waves like a bird, while both vessels were running at a high rate of speed - at least thirteen knots. Finding" that our shot were thrown away, the firing was discontinued; the bow gun was carefully sponged clean, and its cavernous throat left open for its meal of solid iron, whenever it might be' eemed expedient to feed it again. The sunset and twilight of the tropics followed, flooding the open ocean with a soft vermilion light. The moon, however, was late in rising, and owing to the dark belt which succeeds the disappearance and coming of the two orbs, we lost sight of our chase. Every precaution had been taken to guard against such a contingency; fifty pairs of eyes had been intently peer- ing in the direction she was going, and night glasses and mirrors had been watching and reflecting in all parts of the ship, from the dolphin striker under the bows to the mast heads. The moon at last came serenely up, as   round as .a wheel, and white as Parian marble, while the pearly light fell glittering over the waves to the uttermost verge of the clear-cut horizon; butt still there was not a vestige to be seen of the chase. "Keep on twenty minutes longer, Mr. Hansard, and be ready meanwhile to reduce sail." ("Ay,ay, sir!" said the officer of the watch, in reply to the captain's sharp order. , The preparations were rapidly made, while old Percy stood with his night glass at his eye, sweep- ing over the sea in every direction, but so savage at being foiled that he was dangerous' to converse with. ("A boat under the bows,": sung out a man perched on the jib-boom end, "-and something alive in it." "Ah, ha!" exclaimed old Jack, as he leaned over the cat-head; " what trick is this the scoundrel is playing?" As the corvette flew on with fearful speed, she made one' plunge, and striking the object with her sharp cutwater, she split it like a reed, while at the same instant we heard the faint bleat of a goat, and as a piece of the wreck fell beyond the hissing rage of foam from the bows, we saw, by the light of the mellow moon, the word  "Clara," and the remembrance of the bereaved mother, mourning for the toss of her murdered child, rose vividly before us.  The captain gave a howl of vengeance, and with a frightful oath he thundered out, "I'll have you under my guns before I sleep, you bloody villain.'s Then yelling to the officer of the watch, " ' In studding   OU      TALES FOR THE MARINES. sails, and bring the wind abeam on the port tack," he continued his apostrophe to the hidden brig--"O, you're a cunning fox, and you've dodged beneath the haze of that rising moon in hopes I'll run past you, eh?" The sails were shut up like a fan, the helm put a- starboard, and on we flew in the new direction. Two hours later, and "a Sail ho!" again cried a dozen voices / from different parts of the ship. "Where away?" "Right ahead, sir." The news went round the Juniata like an electric shock, and we were all wound-up to a high pitch of excitement, feeling now certain that the chase was the selfsame pirate who had robbed the English brig. On we went like a bloodhound on the scent all that night, and, it was only towards sunrise that we had re- covered the ground that we had lost on the evening pre- vious. Then the land was reported on the lee bow, and there the oval Peak of Teneriffe, a hundred miles dis- tant, reared its white-robed summit, glistening in the rays of the rising sun. At ten o'clock we resumed the salutations with the long eighteens; but still the balls fell short of the mark, and they were again discontinued, as by the yawing of the ship in firing we thought we lost a little, and now every inch was important., At noon, I was standing wistfully looking through the bridle port at the black hull of the brig, as she rose and reeled, and seemed just to touch the crests of the waves, while she sprang on in flight, when I felt a sharp twitch at my ear; and believing, in my vexation, that it         '   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      61 was one of the friendly pinches of a messmate, I whirled quickly round, and planted a blow full into the old skipper's breadbasket. "O Lord, sir! I really beg your pardon," I apologized in some fright. "Pretty solid little fist that," laughed old Percy at my confu- sion; " suppose you try to pitch one of those lumps of iron there into that buccaneer, as you have those little knuckles into me. Here, Dolphin, old nigger, go and take the wheel; and mind you steer as if you were going to thread a cambric needle; watch a smooth time and the weather roll, and give the boy a fair chance for his first shot." "Ay, ay, sir!" said the delighted Kit, as he smiled and whispered in my ear, "Now mind yousef, Massa Harry; don't be in a hurry, and when you see dem lofty poles ob de brig, just dare ob de. outer rim dar, pull the trigger string wid a dam sharp jerk- so ; but stop a bit, while old Kit chalks his num- ber on a smood new shot." He picked up a ball of the metal, and feeling all around to see if it had been- properly cast, he took a piece of red chalk, and made a rough, though graphic silhouette of an individual--dangling with convulsed legs from-a gallows. "6 Now," he added, turning to the quarter gunner, who stood by, "Jimmy Veech, for de honor ob old Virginy, wipe out de muz- zle ob de lady, load her keerful, and gib de young gen- tleman a fair shake." The old gunner nodded assent, and being of a philosophic frame of mind, he stopped Dol-  phin to ask him if he knew C" what the ingredients which 6 c   62      TALES FOR THE MARINES. composed powder were."  "Bery well, Mr. Veech," quickly rejoined Kit, as his comical eye winked with merriment, "' bery well, indeed; de 'gredients am cam- phire, sulphire, and hell-fire!" and so saying, and with another caution to, me to be cool, he left the discom- fited Mr. Veech to growl out his indignation and load the gun, while he hurried aft to the wheel. I can give you no idea of my feelings as the men finished wadding and running out the gun, when with the hammer of the lock thrown back, and the primer laid on the -touch hole, the trigger cord was placed in my hand. I thought at the time that not only my own reputa- " tion in life and in the navy depended upon the cartridge I was about to explode, but that also of all my rela- tives, living and dead. So evident was my excitement, that, for a wonder, even my messmates ceased their gibes. Patiently, however, I waited until I could see a signal agreed upon with honest Kit, when, as the bell struck the first half hour after noon, he threw his arm up for me to be ready, and then I watched with all my soul for the moment when the chase would come into range. Still every second seemed an age to me, until at last the corvette- gave an almost imperceptible yaw, 'and as she fell off and was about to rise upon the swell beneath her bows, I caught' sight of the white sails of the brig directly in range of the gun, and stepping back  with a violent jerk on the lock lanyard, the stunning   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       63 report followed. I sprang like a cat up the Jacob's ladder of the fore rigging, just in time to see the flying missile dip into a wave, a short distance astern of the brig; and the next instant I saw the- white splinters fly up in a shower from her taffrail, as the resistless globe of iron tore like a, plough along her decks, and plunged through the bulwarks forward. A suppressed cheer arose from our tops and forecastle, as theshot was seen to strike, and at the same time old Kit, who had run forward from the wheel, seized me in his, arms, and hugged me as in a vice. "Bueno!" sung out old Percy, while the reefers were congratulating me on my maiden success- "Bueno! Five feet the other way would have made his hull as clear of sticks as a coal barge! But what is the rascal about now'?" he added, as we could discern a heavy splash from some large object over the side. "By thunder, he's thrown overboard the only tooth he had left in his jaws, that long brass gun; however, he keeps a boat yet, and he seems to be more anxious to save his neck than it may be worth in the market. But if he intends to run on shore, he'll only give the lie to the old proverb about drowning and hanging; and at all events, I'll never leave him alive." The chase .had now lasted more than- fifty hours. The Island of Teneriffe was plain in sight along our lee beam, while 'the vineyards and villages, dotted about the : hills, were reflected by the declining sun. On we went,   "      TALES FOR THE MARINES. steering for the eastern end of the island, and gaining when the breeze freshened anid losing 'when it lulled. The sun was slowly sinking towards the verge of the horizon. The town of Santa Cruz was rising upon our view, when the brig hoisted the Spanish flag, as she grazed the westernmost point of the roadstead, and began to take in sail. As we perceived the game they were up to, the boat- swain's mates shouted out, C"Away there, Ariels and second cutters!" and the crews of the boats, with cut- lasses at their sides and pistols in their belts, came eagerly crowding around the davit's falls. "Hope," cried old Percy, " stand by to let every thing go by the run, and have the bower anchors ready to drop close aboard that brig, and a couple of divisions all clear, to sink him if he dares ,to bolt again. There, now's the time," added the skipper, as we whirled like a tornado around his bow in shore of him, while the sails came down in clouds, the, yards were braced aback, the heavy anchors fell with a simultaneous splash, and-the boats with them, as the Juniata was brought up with a terrible surge on the brig's beam. In five seconds we dashed alongside of her, and be- fore even the rattle of her chains had ceased grating through Ithe hawseholes, the corvette's men had leaped on her Idecks.  With  cutlasses flashing over their heads, they were about to plunge, like demons, pellmell into a large crowd of villanous-looking scoundrels, who ,  i1  *   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      65 were congregated about the masts, when the shrill voice of old Percy yelled out, "Avast there, men; don't strike a blow!" While the Juniata's men fell back, in a ,double line, on the brig's deck, in obedience to the com- mand of the captain, we could distinctly hear the last taps of the drum on board the ship beating to quarters, and the order of "Silence! Cast loose the starboard battery." At the same time 'we saw the frowning can- non, with the tompions out, gazing dark and ominous upon the vessel we were on board of. . After a rapid glance over the ugly wretches assembled on deck, who appeared to have-been spawned from every part of the known globe, but chiefly Sp niards, Portu- guese, Lascars, mulattoes, and even :negioes, old Percy began: "Who commands this brig?"There was no reply until the question was repeated in Spanish, when forth stepped a low-browed, swarthy, bow-legged mu- latto, and replied in broken English, " Iim go 'shore wid mate, in dat boat dare, wen we close to de punta," he said with a malicious scowl, as he moved'his chin in the direction of the land. "Ay, by J6ve, so the villains have!" ground out Mad Jack; but turning quickly to his own 'men, he exclaimed, "Spring,\ there, you lads, and take those fellows, dead or alive! No, stop!" he, continued, as the boat's crew were leaping into the cut- ter; "it is useless; they have already landed and escaped, and their boat is adrift there near the rocks.": Then approaching the mulatto again, as his eyes flashed 6.*   "     TALES FOR THE MARINES. fire, he balanced a cocked pistol in his hand, with a very wicked and nervous finger on the trigger, and looking him in the face, he said, in a soft, precise tone, C"Now, my man, at the first lie I'll blow your brains out. Tell me, where are you from." The villain quailed as he stood beneath the gaze of the old white-headed skipper, and he replied with some trepidation, e"From de Spanis Main-- Laguayra."  "Your papers?" "Gone shore wid cappen." "And the name of the brig-?" rejoined old Jack, as he still moved the pistol up and down, and added, "Cuidado, amigo, have a care," as the beetling- browed scoundrel began to falter. "fBrig namee?." f"Yes!" "She namee Juanita." This was the last word and lie the mulatto uttered. i Old Percy's arm moved slowly up until the barrel of the weapon was level with his forehead, and an explosion followed. Before the smoke had blown away, and the mulatto, with the cap of his skull nearly crushed by the ounce bullet, was stretched a dead man on the deck, Mad Jack pulled another pistol from his belt, an4 without changing a muscle of his determined face, he beckoned to another of the gang, and in the same sardonic, cold, low, though audible tone, he said in Spanish, c"A ball for every lie. Now, what is the true name of this craft?"The man addressed gave a furtive glance around, as if to see if there was any means of evading the question by an escape; but seeing only the resolute faces of the cor- vette's enraged sailors, and the cowering looks of his   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        67 own companions, while the click of 'the captain's pistol assailed his ears, he hesitated no longer, but fell on his knees, and crossing his breast, said,' "She is a slaver, called the Clara."   "Ah," sighed old Jack, "even  the truth won't save such rascals, and you, sir; have only swapped the devil for a witch -an ounce of lead for a fathom of hemp."  Then speaking to the boat's crew, he said, "Throw this yellow carcass overboard to the sharks; " and leaning over the brig's rail, he shouted to the first lieutenant of his own ship, "Mr. Hope, send a dozen marines, and half a hundred handcuffs, and as many feet irons on board here, for these pirates." In a few minutes the guard came, the entire band of forty-one men were manacled; and being lashed back to back, they were left to their reflections for the night. Our men, however, were sorely disappointed that the pirates should be allowed to live for even a single night, and were strongly in favor of "--- Lydford law, How in the evening they hange and draw, And sit in judgment after." But as this process was too summary just then, it was decided to let the villains have a chance for praying and be ready for their rope neckcloths in the morning. This plan was not very well relished by the Juniata's crew, but there was no appeal, and they were obliged tot leave the affair in the hands of their superiors.   TALES FOR THE MARINES. The following day the captain communicated with the panish authorities of Santa Cruz, as the vessel had ichored at the moment we captured her. Representa- ons were also made to the English consul, to procure le evidence necessary to the conviction of -the crew. he brig was searched, and her holds were absolutely ear of every thing save the ballast. Guns, ammu- ition, merchandise, spars, sails, cordage, provisions, ater, and in short every tWing, even to the hatches, had een pitched overboard, in hopes, perhaps, of thus effect- ally removing all traces of their piracies. In this design, however, they were mistaken, even'  Id there existed no stronger proofs by the living wit- nsses who were on board the Arabella; for in tearing p the panel work of the cabin lockers, a small passage as discovered, leading down into the after run; and Lere was found, among other small articles, the chro- )meter which had been taken from the English vessel, ith a letter in the case, which had been received by e murdered skipper from his "'affectionate Nelly." It is needless to keep you longer, just now, in de- ribiflg the measures taken to bring the perpetrators of Lis nefarious atrocity to justice. Suffice it to say, that, ter a delay of two months at Teneriffe, his Britannic ajesty's sloop of war Gazelle, arrived with the proper positions and instructions, and the Clara was delivered ter, with the band of forty-one men. One of these iscreants contrived to jump overboard, on the passage   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        69 o Gibraltar; but the remainder, after a fair trial, were Lung by the necks until they were dead. With respect o the captain and mate, who eluded us at Santa Cruz, ve made every possible exertion to ferret them out [uring our stay at the island. In this we were unsuccess- ul, though you may, perhaps, learn, in the sequel, that heir fate was only deferred. *      -4 .    ,.'   CHAPTER      III. S WE left Teneriffe one bright and lovely morning, and steering to the eastward, we took the fresh trade wind over our quarter, and without touching tack or sheet, we rolled pleasantly over the'blue seas of the tropics; passed the Cape de Verds, and continuing on, we found ourselves, a few days after, on the northern edge of the equator, well into the African coast, at the little Island of St. Thomas. Our mission to this out-of-the-way, unhealthy spot was induced by the fact that, some months before, an American brig had been -defrauded of a considerable amount of money, and we had been instructed to recover it, if possible; which was, however, regarded by the owners themselves as a scheme of very questionable success. The sun blazed down in perpendicular streams of fire, as we let run our cables at the anchorage, and the huts and habitations of the little town looked as if they, too, had been baked for a long time in the same oven. Our 2 sails were left hanging in their naturally graceful fes- toons, as they lay in the brails and clewlines, until the breeze should make, or the sun lose its fierce power, so (70)   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      . 71 as to allow the topmen to go aloft without having their brains crisped, and roll up the loose canvas. The awn- ings were spread, too, fore and aft, and the decks had been wet; but still we all lay panting like fish out of water. I was leaning over the spanker boom, on the poop, near the taffrail, looking down into the clear, calm water, where the bottom was, distinctly visible, anda thinking how delightful it would be to be skirting about in the shady pools, instead of running messages for the- officer of the watch, around the hot decks, when my eye was attracted by a gaudily painted barge, which was ap- proaching us from the shore. The boat had a fearful representation of a dragon or sea monster, carved around the bow, with a raised canopy of matting, supported by light stanchions over the stern. She was pulled by six large negroes, who gave 'a stroke about every minute; rising up as they threw the, blades of the oars forward, and' coming down with such tremendous force on the thawts as ought apparently to have driven their heads off their shoulders, from the mere concussion; at the same time they would utter a deep aspiration of "Hi yow," and again spring up,\as it were in a convulsion, strike the palms of their hands together in one simul- taneous clack, seize the oars, and come down as before. They all wore white straw hats; and this was their only covering, except the sheeny skins, dry and polished as ebony, which nature had provided them. Beneath the awning abaft sat a tall black, with a   'R72     TALES FOR THE MARINES. huge cocked hat, stuck crosswise on his woolly pate, a bright scarlet coat, with tarnished embroidery, buttoned tight and close up to his chin, while his lower limbs were encased in a pair of white cotton pantalettes; which only reached a little- above the knees. The boat with this personage came slowly alongside the Juniata, and with the last powerful whoop of "Hi hi, yow yow," the rowers remained motionless on their seats, while their passenger rapidly mounted the ladder, and made his obeisance to the officers on the quarter deck. "Sarvint, sar," he began to jabber with great volubility; "me Nappolee Bonee- pattee -me sleep wid gubbener ebery night -you got coast fevee -neber mind-gib shed house on shor- spose you gib big present tobakker? Here pickanin- nee, small ossifa, have sok shuga tick." This last invi- tation was addressed to one of the reefers, as the fellow pitched a short, thick sugar cane at him, spear fashion, which the youngster dexterously caught, and in a second returned the compliment by bringing it with a sound- ing whack on the cucumber shins of the black. "Gor- ree," he howled as he danced about in excruciating pain, and showing his double range of teethy "him crackee me all to pieces." Here the captain appeared on deck, and the moment the scarlet-backed individual perceived him, he hopped up to him like a parrot, and forgetting, apparently, his agony, he went on with his fluent jabber in this strain: "Well, sar, you is ole wite head, fed- dered cappin--you speaka me all same gubbener (me   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       73 sleep wid him.) ' O, ho, you do, eh! and what trade may you follow in the daytime?" asked the skipper. " Hi, me furnis mess wid fiuit and nice bullock heart stuck round wid yam for yoppa!" C Ah!" grunted old Percy, to this feast; and then he added, "And what big rock is that there, by that old castle?"  " O, dat," re- plied the black, "dat, ebery dam fool know ole Anne Cheres' rock!"I thought that the free-spoken darkey would have been thrown a somersault down the gun- room hatch; but the captain only smiled at his innocence, and desired him to walk into- the cabin. He was, how- ever, a very wide-awake fellow, though he did sleep with the governor; and notwithstanding that the cap- tain loosened his tongue with a dash of brandy and rum, still he could not be prevailed upon to converse upon affairs of the island, or to give any precise direc- tions where the governor himself slept, by night or day. - On leaving, he was presented with a few- pounds of tobacco, half of which he promised-to present to his  bosom friend, the governor, with a civil request to see that potentate so soon as he could make it convenient. Some days passed, but yet the governor did not ap- pear, though his deputy- came frequently, with many flattering speeches, and a few gifts of grapes and cocoa nuts, and innumerable hints with ruspect to his fondness for tobacco. At last old Percy, having supplied these worthies pretty extensively with" this luxury, and allayed the suspicions which he had reason to think had been 7   74      TALES FOR THE MARINES. excited by our arrival at the island, resolved to act. He had learned also that the governor was a Portuguese of bad character; that the money taken from the American vessel was secreted beneath the floor of his house, near the beach; and that he was only waiting the arrival of a slaving brig, on a return trip to the River Gaboon, with whose commander he was in league, to transfer his dollars for valuable merchandise expected from the Havana. Accordingly, under pretence of more conveniently taking in fresh water and wood, the Juniata was warped directly within point blank range of the town, with a spring on the cable, so as to keep the broadside ready for work. The following morning, when the governor and his friend were reported as taking their noontide siesta, stretched comfortably in grass hammocks, old Percy sent him the following pithy document:- "f Senhor Governor : I am writing on the breech of a thirty-two pounder, which, together with nineteen oth- ers on board my ship, is carefully pointed at your resi- dence. There is a lighted match in each of the guns, which I fear will only burn thirty minutes. , Please send me the sixteen thousand dollars you stole from the American schooner Reliance. before that time expires, or I shall send you more bunches of iron grapes than you can readily digest. "Excuse haste.  J. PERCY."   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       75 Upon the reception of this undiplomatic note, there -was an awful bobbery raised in the governor's domicile, and he evinced some inclination to negotiate the affair, until he could, perhaps, have removed his plunder to a more remote and secure retreat. .But observing, by the frowning muzzles of our guns, that we were quite in earnest, he despatched a dory on board with a note, to say, that he had only retained the money until a safe opportunity occurred of transmitting it to the rightful owners, and that he would send it off to the corvette immediately., The captain merely sent word back "6 to hurry himself;" but before the thirty minutes had ex- pired, the bags of dollars were deposited'on board the Juniata, with the governor's note, (which was also de- manded,) payable with rather heavy interest, by way of damages, which we learned afterwards had been scrupu- lously paid, but qualified with the express condition that " dat dam ole willin ob buckra man-ob-war cappin come to St. Tomas no more!" As we were not pressed for time, we remained some days .longer at the island, in expectation of the arrival of a vessel bound to Europe or America, which might  transport the treasure to its destination. As nothing came, a day was appointed for sailing; and without re- ceiving the promised visit from the governor, or present- ing him with more tobacco, the canvas was shaken from the yards, and with the first of the ventaniie, we beat out : from the roadstead.   76      TALES FOR THE MARINES. Some time before we left St. Thomas, after the little matter of the money had been safely stowed away in the magazine, a canoe came alongside, paddled by a thin, naked negro, while two sitters were squatted on the bottom. Lying off from the corvette, the black clapped his palm with a loud thwack upon the blade of his pad- dle, to attract the attention of an officer walking the poop, and then screamed out, in a gleeful tone, "Ossifa, me monkey soup - saila da, him wantee cheep!" 'c Calla-boca! silence, you crow!" said the man nearest to him, in the boat, as with a malevolent scowl he threw a cocoa nut, which hit the black a terrible knock on the skull, and then bounded off into the water, without in- flicting any permanent injury. "Cease your gibberish," he said in English; and at the same time he stood up, and taking off a tattered palm leaf hat, he asked per- mission to come on board. "Let that canoe come alongside," said the quarter- 'master on duty to the sentry in the gangway, in obedi- 'ence to a nod from his superior; and presently the two men came slowly and observantly over the ship's side, but without touching their hats as they stepped on deck. Their canoe man, meanwhile, shrieked out as he pushed off, and beat his paddle in a paroxysm of rage. "Him dam raxal; make tiburon shark tomak ake! Cussum willin for mash um head of poor brak man! O, debbil, debbil!" Here the injured darkey snapped his teeth in fury, and as hei'esumed his course towards the shore,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       " he continued to pour forth his vituperation in an extem- poraneous address to the whole harbor. -' We want to ship," said our visitors, in reply to a question, as to their business, from a midshipman on watch, who stood languidly under the awning, before the -sea breeze made, assisting to support the fife rail at the mainmast. The men were both attired in old straw hats, red flannel shirts, dirty jean trousers, and grass slippers. The spokesman of the pair, however, wore a heavy gold chain around his neck, to which could be seen attached a small leather pouch, commonly worn by sailors to keep their money or trifles in. They were both large, pow- erful fellows, evidently seamen, and the one with the chain had a' full crop of short, dark curly hair, and a pair of huge whiskers, burned by the sun and weather, whi'ch nearly covered his face and throat. His eyes were large, red, and close together,while his nose was well shaped, but slightly curved and choleric looking towards the point. His companion was a sinister-look- ing scoundrel, with a small squint to his optics, a low brow, and coarse sandy hair. Neither of them, as you may imagine, impressed us very favorably; but as they seemed stout, hearty fellows, and there were a number of vacancies on board the corvette, the officer of the watch thought best to inform the captain and first lieu- tenant of -their desire to ship.  Now, if there was any thing that Captain Percy prided 7*   l OlAljfiO r- uxAfirL IVTH  AlVlMAJA. himself more upon than his knowledge of surgery and the English language, it was in finding out whether a man was a seaman or not. Accordingly, when I in- formed him that there were a couple of men on board anxious to ship, he threw by a chart he was inspecting, and with a white jacket on, a toothpick in one hand and a small black whalebone cane in the other, he' slowly walked out of his cabin. The first lieutenant had by this time reached the deck, and while he was interrogating the applicants, the captain stood on one side, and carefully scrutinized them with his large gray eyes nearly closed. The man with the chain seemed to be rather wearied with the cross examination he had undergone, and when it came his friend's turn, his gaze wandered about the decks, until it rested with peculiar interest upon a glitterfig circle of boarding pikes and a rack of gleaming cutlasses stuck around the mainmast, and ranged in form of a crescent over the boom board, abaft the boats. At this moment old Jack approached, and striking him a smart rap over the shoulder with his cane, said, "s Not so bad as the lick you gave that poor nigger with the cocoa nut! was it? The man whirled round, and with the worst expression of countenance, betwixt rage and wonder, I ever saw, looked as if he would have sprung at the captain's throat. Old Percy, however, stood quite unmoved, and- continuing his discourse as if nothing had occurred, went on with, "Pretty weepons those,"   TALES FOR THE MARINES.     - 79" pointing to the small arms, and nodding with a meaning smile; but suddenly pausing, he, resumed with a quick, sharp voice, "Where are you from, sir, and how did the pair of you get here?"    "We left an English bark on the Gold Coast, came over here in a Callongos trader, and were robbed of all we had the day we landed." "There's three lies to begin with," edged in old Jack; "and where do you hail from?" he inquired. "Born' in New Orleans," replied the fellow, doggedly. ' "That's lie number four. I would sooner have believed you if you'd sworn you died there. However, Hope," he said, turning to his next in command, c as the govern- ment holds out inducements for such fictions in shipping sailors, you can take them. But hark ye, my friends; be- have well, and you'll be treated properly'; but in case I find ye ondeficient in duty,"--and here he waved his whalebone cane slowly in the air,--"I'll make you dance without music." As the captain turned on his heel, I noticed the fel- low with the chain follow him with a look of malignant hate; but he presently resumed a show of indifference, and accompanied his companion down the hatchway, to be examined by the surgeons, and sign the shipping ar- ticles. I saw no more of them for a day or two, until I recognized them dressed in the uniform rig of the crew, and learned that they were stationed in the maintop. : I think I told you, Fred, said the Lieutenant, as /L.    OuV      lAlMBS FUO'R T1HE MAlR aSlN.  he took the cheroot from his lips, and settled himself cozily before the fire, that we beat out of -St. Thomas's with the ventanie, a sort of sea breeze, only it blows from the adjoining coast of Benin, and the swamps and rivers of that neighborhood. Well, we had scarcely cleared the anchorage before it fell calm; and there we lay backing and filling, with calms and puffs, all night. The next day the breeze did not make at all, and the weather was as close, sultry, and uncomfortable as it is reasonable to expect it should be directly under the equator. The barometer, too, after fluctuating all day, towards nightfall gave a sudden pitch downwards of a full quarter of an inch; and then arose a brown, dirty haze away in the east. We were, at this time, only a few miles in the offing, and I believe, had the channel back to the anchorage been less intricate, we should have up helm and ran back to the governor again. As it was, without a pilot and darkness coming on, the cap- tain resolved to creep off the land as far as possible, and be prepared for any emergency. So at sunset the royal and topgallant yards were sent down, and the light sails out of the tops. As it was not my business, in those days, to meddle with the weather, or to hold myself responsible for the sail on the ship, or do aught else save eat, and sleep, and lark, and make as much mischief -as could well be made in each twenty-four hours, - moreover, as it was not my watclh, - you may, without fear of contradiction, take   -/   '  TALES FOR THE MARINES.       81 my word for it, that I was snoozing soundly in my dream bag. I first took the precaution, however, of examining my clews, to assure myself that none of my messmates lhad passed slippery hitches, to spill me un- awares. Then, being carefully tucked in by honest Kit, I was casting up a rough estimate, in my dreams, as to the precise number of bananas and oranges I might filch from the gun room fruit nets, hanging from the stern boat, when I was aroused by a sharp and vicious tweak of my nose; which was considered a great feat in those days, and could only be scientifically executed, on account of the diminutive size of that useful organ, when I was asleep. At the same instant, I heard a tow- headed youngster, about my own age, roar out in- my ear, while he held a flaring horn lantern close to my eyes, "Heave out, Harry; it's all hands." "Yes," said I, " and feet too," as I, recovered my faculties; and doubling myself up quickly, I contrived to kick my friend with his lantern under the steerage ladder. Then X I rolled out of the opposite side of my hammock, while my tormentor picked himself up, and hurriedly capsized all the other hammocks within reach. He afterwards aroused, though in a more respectful manner, the offi- cers in the gun room. I had barely enticed my legs into my trousers, when I heard the sharp ring of the boatswain's whistle, fol- lowed by the short call of s"All hands!" and repeated : by the corporals on the berth deck, with the additional   by      TALES FOR THE MARINES. warning of "s Come! D'ye hear the word! Tumble up there! Be smart!" I gained the sjar deck, and at once took my station at the captain's elbow on the poop. The ship was un- der double-reefed topsails, a reef in the courses, and the bonnet off the jib. "Bless me," here softly remarked a well-dressed, fairy-footed damsel, sitting within ear- shot of the Lieutenant, and who was known to have a fondness for tripping along narrow streets, during the prevalence of high gales -  Bless me, don't they allow bonnets to be worn in stormy weather at sea?" But the narrator, now accustomed to these observations, smiled at the young person's ignorance of marine insti- tutions, and made no pause in his narrative. The wind had come out from the eastward, and was increasing every minute. The clouds came rolling over like masses of black wool, with a little spit of rain at intervals, and slightly scented with the noxious exhala- tions from the muddy River Gaboon, on the continental coast. Then the gusts would rise with fitful violence, and the lightnings were tremulous and incessant all around the horizon. But the- wind was not yet steady, and kept flickering about for an hour or more, when, having selected the proper point, it settled down into a hard gale, and came thundering on over the sea,- which, in a blaze of phosphorescent light, illumined the dark, murky clouds above,-and piping and crying through the rigging, and snapping the taut ropes against the spars in fury. a  r   TALVES FOR THE MARINES.      83 The third reef was taken in the topsails, and the close reef in the courses; and even then the ship was quivering and cleaving through the sea, close by the wind, with as much sail as she could comfortably stag- ger under. "How's that barometer!" exclaimed the captain, as the mate of the watch reported the speed of the ship at eight knots. "Falling, sir." "And the time? ' 'Three bells past midnight." "Tell the sailing master I want him." That officer was standing near by at the wheel, carefully observing the compass card as it marked how the vessel's head lay. "Mr. Balmy, this way, sir." And, as he approached his commander, the latter said, in a low voice," Take a look at the chart in the cabin, and tell me as near as possible how that point on our beam bears, and how far off the outer reef is? Hope," he:' added to the first lieutenant, "'it's touch and go - down, perhaps; but we must do the best we can, and I'll take the conn."  That moment the master returned, and reported the Island of Rotes on the beam, and that the Irmaoes rocks bore south-south-west, about fourteen miles distant. "May the Lord deliver us," piously ejaculated the captain, as he threw off his coat and cap, - and springing into the quarter boat, in his shirt sleeves, seized the iron chain span with one hand, while he care- fully peered all around; and then, in his shrill, high- pitched voice, that could be heard where at times the', boatswain's whistle could not reach, he sung out, "Mr.   84      TALES, FOR THE MARINES. Hope, shake a reef out of the fore and maintopsails." "' Ay, ay, sir!"The order was at once given through the trumpet, and the topmen were sooq on the yards casting off the reef knots. A minute or two later, the yards were hoisted so as to spread the sail that had been shaken out, and the captain watched the effect upon the ship with intense interest. "How does she head?" he asked. "Due south, sir, and going off a little." "Hope," he shouted again, as he held on with one arm round the forward davit, "we must turn the second reef out of the courses." "By St. Peter!" gasped the officer; but the orders were given. "Aloft there, quarter gunners and forecastle men, and see your points clear! Man tacks and sheets!" while the captain, whom I had followed into the boat, told me to slide down the backstays, run forward, and tell Kit Dolphin to take the weather wheel.- The gale was now at its height, and every five minutes a heavy squall of rain would sweep over the ship, and she would be buried waist deep in the seas, which came pouring over the bows and lee gunwale in a perfect cataract. The additional weight of sail that the corvette was now under, had there been any great plunge in the motion of the vessel, would have taken the masts and hamper out of her, even with the deck, in one puff; but the violence of the wind thus far had almost blown the sea smooth, and as the topsails were clewed down during   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       85 the bursting of the squalls, not a seam had started or a rope yarn stranded. Meanwhile, the captain conned the ship, and there he stood with his white hair streaming in the wind, and his- clear voice ringing out high above the tempest, like the scream of an eagle, as he gave directions to the men at the wheel. "Luff, I say, luff! nothing off, Dolphin; watch her sharp, and don't shake a thread."  And by the binnacle lights the brawny arms of four men were seen interlaced one with another round the spokes, as they gave or wound the raw hide tiller ropes inch  by inch. We had now approached within fearful proximity to the land, and since the ship was partially embayed be- tween the two arms of the bight, our only alternative was to weather the leewardmost one, where rose the Irmaoes rocks, or 'be crushed to atoms on the island itself. I How's the barometer?" asked old Percy for the twentieth time. "At a stand and convex on the sur- face," replied the precise Mr. Balmy. "Ah, ha! give me no worse, good San Antonio; the gale will break by daylight." "She's come up half a pint," blurted out Kit Dolphin, in a deep bass. "All right, boy, close at it; and now, my beauty," I heard old Percy say to him- self, , I'll not scratch your pretty bottom this bout!" when at that moment, during a furious gust, we heard a report like a cannon, and a dozen' voices exclaimed,: "The lee maintopsail sheet's parted." The clew of the 8   86      TALES FOR THE MARINES. sail gave one violent flap, the lee brace snapped at the belaying pin, while the wind caught the sail full aback against the topmast, and at the same time the ship fell off a point and a half. "May the villain who wove that rope have his neck twisted in a stronger," groaned the captain; but again his shrill voice rose in a stream of yells. "Mr. Hope, give the ship the whole courses, sir! clew up and cut adrift that topsail! see the lee lower lifts taut, and the tacks close down; and don't shake a rag of canvas, Mr. Balmy, or we'll have nothing M but a press of bolt ropes to weather those rocks there ahead. . Move there, you maintopmen; out knives and cut. , Notwithstanding the imminent peril in which the ship was placed by the inopportune accident to the topsail, and the urgent necessity of getting quit of it as soon as possible, the men, apparently appalled by the fury and overwhelming power of the tempest, hesitated about going out on the lee yard, where the shreds of canvas, stranded ropes, and blocks were beating, writhing, and twisting around it like the- folds of the serpents around Laocoon. "Quick, I say," reiterated the captain; and as the topmen still hesitated, he snatched a sheath knife from the belt of a quarter master at his side, and leaping fioom the boat to the back stays, in a second he was travelling rapidly up the main shrouds. He soon gained the top; but on he went up the rigging to the topmast /,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       87 head. Another brief space, and we could see him; in his white shirt, slipping cautiously down by the lee top- sail lift. Out of very shame a dozen sailors had fol- lowed; for by this time the yard was resting on the cap, the weather earing and clew of the sail having been detached, and was standing straight out, with the vio- lence of the gale, to leeward, while nothing confined it to the yard save the earings of the lee leech. , At this critical moment, old Percy reached the yard arm, and with one foot on the flemish hawse, he divided the lashings and seizings, and the rent flax flew away in the gloom. While this intrepid -act was in progress, the topmen, recovering from their panic, were crowding out on the yard, but all too late for the service that had been needed, when, just as the captain turned to move in , by the foot ropes, something- gave way beneath him, and he was precipitated with aj"erk from the yard. My heart ceased to beat; but as a score of voices yelled out, "Man overboard," I saw the white figure of the  captain arrested in his descent by the lower lift, and shortly afterwards he alighted on -the main yard, and came down the ratlines' to the deck. Such a narrow escape from what seemed inevitable' death I had never even heard of The'Juniata, relieved of her torn*topsail, and under the full drop of her courses, had again maintained her hold on the wird; and on she rushed with her lee bat-) tery and hammock nettings under water, while her head /           ,1   88.      TALES FOR THE MARINES. scarcely looked clear of the ugly mass of reef and rocks, which we could now plainly see within a mile of us. "6 Ten minutes more, Hope," said old Jack, in a firm though weak voice, to the excellent' officer at his side, as he held 'on to his arm and the mizzen shrouds, while I noticed that his shirt was stained with blood and his face dreadfully lacerated. "Nothing off, Dolphin," he continued cheerfully. "There., that will do," he added as the gale favored. us at the proper moment -" rap full, and no nearer." The stern rocks toppled high against the sky above our heads, like grim giants of the ocean ready to destroy us, while the seas were breaking like mad about their feet. The corvette reeled as she rose on the swell caused by the violent reaction, and then, when we expected every second to feel the crash of the stout timbers beneath us upon the foaming reefs, the next glare of lightning showed them to us over the lee quarter. Then burst forth a relieved shout of triumph from the hitherto breathless crew and officers as they stood await- ing their impending doom, under the lee of the weather bulwarks. "All clear, sir,"' roared the sailing master; but the captain made no reply. He took me by the ear, however, and whispered, "Harry, tell the surgeon I want him ; " and then in a louder tone, "Hope, look out for the ship, and make all snug. I want a nap." And so the old man entered his cabin. Before sunrise the gale broke and the wind rapidly   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       89 . -abated, preceded, however, by a double barrelled suc- cession of awful peals of thunder, which drove away the blue-flamed corposans from the tips of our masts, where they had been perched' during the storm. The clouds broke away, the glorious sun shone out hot and clear, and before noon the regular trade clouds in their fleecy beauty were moving through the heavens, and with all our drawing canvas spread, we steered for Brazil. For some days old Percy did not stir out of his cabin, and all reports were made to the second in com- mand, until one morning, about ten o'clock, the door swung open and hei appeared on deck. He was attired in an old uniform coat, which had once been blue, but the sun had burned it to a pale green, and a pair of rusty epaulets, with a straight sword in one hand, which he used as a walking cane, and a yellow leather bound book in the other,\ with a finger between the leaves. His face was paler than usual, and there was a broad linen bandage passed over his head and under his chin, while he moved his left 'arm as if in pain. "All hands witness punishment," said he, with a nod, to the officer of the watch, as he returned his salute from the horse block. Presently the officers were all assembled,-on the quar- ter deck, the marines drawn up to leeward, the gratings laid at the gangway, the seizings passed, the quarter masters near, and the boatswain, with his lusty mates and a green bag containing the cats, stood ready, while the 8* ;      o         X   90      TALES FOR THE MARINES. remainder of the corvette's crew were clustered about the-boats and mainmast. When the officers and' crew were reported up, the captain turned to the first lieutenant with, "Mr. Hope, send for the station bill and muster the maintopmen." The names of the men of both watches were called, and as the individuals answered, they ranged themselves on either side of the fife rail.    * , Michael Maginnis," repeated the captain, and out stepped a short squat-built little Irishman; and taking off his hat, he smoothed his bristles with a respectful air, and awaited his fate. Mickey was a particular friend of mine, for he had pricked a variety of China, ink devices of ships, anchors, and crucifixes on my arms, had taught me to play Spanish draughts in the top, and other valuable sea miscellany for pastime. Mickey had his failings, like all the rest of mankind, in a too ardent attachment for " sperits " and tobacco; but it was his boast, however, that though he might lose his reason occasionally, yet he never lost his old pipe, drunk or Sober. To guard against such a misfortune, he had a pair-of his lower teeth filed with a circular aperture, where he inserted his pipe, which was of silver, and toggling it on the inside, he thus defied fate. The re- mainder of his incisors also presented a rather singular- appearance, they being by nature small and pointed, similar to a cross cut saw, or a double row of letter V's. On the occasion I speak of, Mickey had his arm in a sling.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      91 "Maginnis," was the captain's address, " where were you the other night when the order was given tof cut adrift the maintopsail?" 'Av ye plaze, sir, I pitched on till the yard, afore ye gave the order, and thin I had me fist here smashed by a flip from the bowlin' bridle, which obliged me to swing meselff back to the lower cap, sir." This speech was so frank and respectful, as he drew forth his mutilated hand in its splints and band- ages, while the surgeon corroborated the extent of the injury, that we waited with some anxiety to see if his commander would punish him. "Stand aside, sir," was the only order he received. "Christopher Dolphin," was the next name called; and forth broke Kit from the throng of his shipmates near the booms, for he did not belong to the maintop, and dofling his hat, he looked the captain full in the face. There was a sort of reddened glow about the white seam on his wounded cheek, and a sad and surprised look in his eyes; but yet he never quailed. My heart sank within me when I beheld my faithful friend, who, to my recollection, never had a cross word given him, much less a stripe of those tearing cats athwart his honest back. Had I dared, I should have rushed out and interceded for my trusty companion; and I would willingly have taken the blows which I believed were about to be inflicted on him; but the rigid discipline and ceremony of the quarter deck held me back. "Dolphin," said the captain, "how long have you -- . )  ^   '   been in service?."  "Neber but' once afore, sir." "ssWhen was that?" ( In de fight wid de Wasp and Frolic, sir." "Ay, I remember, you and Lang were the first to board." The black made no reply. "-Stand there." The captain pointed with his sword to a place beside Maginnis, and then went on, turning towards the crew. "Listen to me, lads. I never overlook good or bad conduct. That man," (designating my Irish beauty,) C" did his duty. I make him captain of the maintop, and I shall give him a week's liberty when the ship reaches port. And you, Dolphin, for steering this vessel like a skilful and prudent, seaman, when a hair's variation would have smashed us on' the rocks, I rate you my cockswain." Then, after a slight but impressive pause, he opened the articles of war, and read aloud, "Any person in the navy who shall negligently perform his duty shall be punished at the discretion of the calptain." Here he called out, ,C Thomas Murden; " and the burly shoulders and ugly squint of one of the fellows who had been shipped at St. Thomas protruded themselves from the line of his topmates. "Seize him up!" The cats were taken out of their case, the blows fell, and the wretch stood in perfect indifference to his punish- ment, while the corporal counted to twelve, when the order was given, ;"Stop!"He put on his blue flannel shirt with a sneer, rolled his quid about in his ugly mug, and seemed well satiSfied to get off so easily. There were three or four more served in the same way,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       93 before the name of ' William Lowther " was called, the companion of Thomas Murden. The captain had- remained quite unconcerned and ap- parently abstracted during the foregoing work, until the last man's name caught his ear, when he started, and fixed his piercing gray eye upon him with a look of the deepest meaning. "And where were you, sir?" he broke out in a sharp, curt tone. "I got on the yard as soon as I could," replied the man, with a surly, insolent air and look. "Ay, you scoundrel, and you cut the flemish hawse seizing by accident, eh! after I had cleared away the head lashing of the topsail. Strip! and thank God that I haven't hung you from that yard arm there before now." The fellow looked savagely around for a mo- ment, and then, with a threatening gesture, he stepped forward a pace, and asked, , If I'm to be flogged, I'm blasted if I wouldn't like to know what for."  Like a flash old Percy's straight rapier leaped from its sheath, and as he made a lunge right for the man's heart, ex- claiming, (' Mutiny, eh!" the first lieutenant threw his arms around him, and barely succeeded in arresting. the pass; but the glittering  steel quivered like a viper's tongue at Lowther's throat, and the sweat fell from his face in great drops.  In another moment, perfectly pas- sive, he-was seized by the petty officers and triced up to the gangway.             '        : "Stop a bit," said the old captain, as his face resumed * . *   "     TALES FOR THE MARINES. its'wonted expression; "that rascal's blood wants cool- ing; one of you there draw a bucket of salt water and fetch a tin pot." The brine was soon brought to the gangway, and a brimming quart tin goblet filled,. when the captain continued, "Take your sedlitz,"- sydleetz he pronounced it,--"it will serve to carry off your bile!"The culprit gulped it down without a word. "Now," added old Jack to the boatswain, with a precise admonition, "flog the villain well." The cords whirled round with their claws clear, and came down in sting- ing cuts, that made him wince and whine at every stroke. At the thirtieth blow, the captain said, "Enough. Mr. Hope, put Lowther in double irons, and repeat this dose every other morning for three days. Pipe down, sir." "And we will pipe up, if you please, Mr. Gringo," said the youthful matron, as, rising, she distributed the bed room candlesticks.          t   CHAPTER IV. " THE evening after the unpleasant events I have re- lated to you, I was whiling away a few leisure moments in the innocent diversion of trying to paint a sleeping messmate's face, with lampblack from the binnacles, when I received the following laconic billet: "Sir, at the calling of the watch, you will repair to the starboard steerage, and report yourself for service, with a wine glass. - Saturday Night." This peremptory official document was written on coarse cartridge paper, and signed by a representation of an imp dancing a pas seul on a corkscrew. Accord- ingly, as the bell struck eight, I very promptly entered the berth where I had been directed to report, and being hoisted, by a summary process, head foremost over the backs of the party already assembled, I was rammed, like a gun wad, into a small crevice between a mess locker and a pile of cocked hat and quadrant cases. A solid cherry wood table, with the leaves spread, nearly filled the apartment, leaving barely room for the camp stools and their occupants, ranged at the sides.  A swinging lamp was attached from  the beam over- head, which shed a strong light and heat around; but (95)  - !    96      TALES FOR THE MARINES. the air ports and a windsail, which was led into the berth, just saved us from the tortures of suffocation. The mess was composed of the usual heterogeneous collection of mates and midshipmen, varying from the ages of thirteen to- thirty, though the latter, not only by long tradition, but usage, were treated as much like boys as the former; nor would the case have been altered in the least degree, had they been, grandfathers. They came from all parts of the broad United States, from the eastern limits of New  England and the Atlantic seaboard to the backwoods and down to the mouth of the Mississippi.      . Many of us, however, knew what a ship was, and had picked up a little primary nautical knowledge from a residence in seaport cities where ships were objects of hourly observation. But there were others who had never seen a mast sticking out of a vessel's deck, and were as ignorant of the life and profession they were called to assume, as an oyster might be supposed to be of the satellites of Jupiter. Strange enough. that some of these last took to their avocations more naturally, and made eventually far better officers, than those who had been reared amid the cheeping of blocks and the smell of that marine perfume -tar. We had one great strapping fellow, who, after many days' travel away from the clearings of the remote set- tlements, at last reached his destination, and entered the - gates of the dock yard, astride of his steed and saddle   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       97 bags. In obedience to directions which had been vol- unteered him from a demure reefer at the gates, he hitched his trusty charger to a ringholt of the receiving hulk moored at the pier; but while he was on board reporting and being introduced to his new home and companions, the tide rose and pulled his faithful animal and saddle bags into the dock. It was not long, how- ever, before Ripley, the honest soul, learned to distin- guish the ropes as well as the sharpest of us, and from his very kindness of heart we all loved him. There was another big fellow named Slade, but he was of quite a different stamp. He had been a " bilger " at his examinations for the second time, and was again on probation for another trial. He was a devoted lover of field sports, knew the pedigree and exploits of every horse in the racing calendar, and prided himself, of all things, upon his skill ini gaffing game cocks with steel spurs as sharp as needles, so that the " poultry " might kill one another at the first fly, whenever a private cock- pit could be held without danger of interruption under the forecastle. Tom Slade did not apparently own much shirt prop- erty, for he was very scantily supplied with those essen- tials, and with respect to coats, he had not a decent one to- his broad back. Indeed, it was not often that he required those outward luxuries, as he rarely went on shore for pleasure, except to act as principal or second in a duel, or umpire in a horserace; and then he took 9 m   P10     "TALES FOR THE MARINES. the privilege of his age and strength, and rigged him- self out in the best raiment the kits of his messmates afforded. Albeit he was on ithose gala occasions a very taking fellow, yet when the night set in he was usually brought on board in an unconscious state. Years rolled on; he left the service, and was killed one day by an Indian rifle bullet, during the Seminole war in Florida, while trying to make a loaded team leap a pine tree across the road, in the heart of a thick forest. We had another victim- to blue water ruin also, whom we called Bonny Baily. He was a little red-headed fel- low, who got maudlin not unfrequently, and in that condition was in the habit of requesting some one of his messmates to take three or four loaded pistols and explode them into his lacerated bosom, declaring him- self disgusted with the world, and the first lieutenant particularly. His turn came; he was cashiered, lectured for a time as a reformed drunkard, then tried his talents as a Methodist parson, ran off with one of the lambs of his flock, and finally died in the almshouse. Among the more juvenile denizens of the Juniata's steerages, there were a number of fine, well-behaved youths, who, steering clear of the shoals and reefs which beset the path of inexperience, escaped all dan- ger, and are now carrying their canvas gallantly in open water, leading lives alike honorable to their country and to themselves. As I pass them in review before me, while busy memories flit in lights and shadows, it is   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       99 very pleasant to me to reflect that there are many of these my boyishcomrades whose early impulsive yearn- ings have never been weakened by time or circumstance, or the cold and stern realities of manhood. Believe me, Fred, and give heed to the knowledge which I have only bought by constant attrition in the world,- never forsake the person who has stood by you in the hour of need for all the wealth or honors that man can bestow. In this latter class I call to mind a messmate named Rox.  -Ie was a short, square-built youth, with a full, dark eye, lighting up a frank, handsome face, beneath a broad, white Grecian forehead, and chestnut hair. He was strong, too, as he was handsome, with limbs like a Titan; and at the age of fifteen he could hold a thirty- two pound shot, at arms length, in each hand. Besides the sea officers who lived in these cramped berths of the Juniata, was a schoolmaster, calling him- self Brown, who was our abomination.  We nicknamed him Griddle Brown, from his resemblance to a pale buckwheat cake.  He wandered slightly out of the line of his legitimate duty, and through a mistaken notion of his conscience, or some such nonsense, he was in the habit of tattling of our misdemeanors to the captain; so we made war upon him, and after being driven nearly to the verge of distraction, he was finally forced to leave the corvette, and devoted his leisure to the scientific ex- plorations of the River Amazon.         : To balance this annoying person, we had a dear good   100     TALES FOR THE MARINES. old soul of a clerk, named Belfair.. He crooked his elbow once too often, however, and like many a better man, the dark waters cover him. He was our favorite, soothed our temporary griefs, interceded for us in scrapes, made up our little quarrels, and was our adviser and friend at all times. He was a man of education, and had seen service; but his unfortunate propensity for the bottle had at last brought him to the lower deck of a man-of-war, whence he was rescued for the time by Captain Percy, with whom he had sailed a score of years before. When not too far gone in his cups, our old friend would sit and sing to us the most soul-touch- ing ditties that ever sailor listened to. You must forgive this tedious digression, ladies, said the Lieutenant, with a sad smile for the past, as he bowed imploringly to his fair audience, for I find that garrulity, one of the infirmities of age, is creeping up to me with a wet lug. I have already told you that upon mny advent to the mate's quarters, there was the accustomed gathering to. welcome Saturday night, and the glasses were paraded on the board. My friend, Jack Gracieux, to whom I was indebted for a very cordial reception, had the chair -in a Pickwickian sense I mean, for there was noth- ing but camp stools in the berth, if indeed there was a contrivance for sitting upon, with a back to it, in the lower part of the ship. ' Gentlemen," said Jack, as he rose with his usual   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       101 air and charming grace of manner --" gentlemen, it may not have escaped the recollection of a number of you, and others have perhaps been informed by impartial ob- servers, that some time during the past week the good ship in which we sail came within an ace of being wrecked on inhospitable rocks in the Bight of Benin; and, out of gratitude for our deliverance, we have been presented by our estimable young shipmate there, over the way " - pointing with an, easy wave of his hand towards me -" with a five-gallon keg- of old Madeira, which I believe was originally intenlded for his grandmother, I think you said -no! -grandfather, gentlemen, to whom  I would beg, should a favorable opportunity present itself in the course of the evening, to propose a very good health." Mr. Gracieux, having got rid of these remarks in an off-hand way, turned to the steward, (a mottled, dis- colored4-faced mulatto, who at a later day made a razzia of all the old family watches in the mess, together with Mr. Gracieux's gold sleeve buttons, and escaped at Buenos Ayres,) and observed in an impressive tone, "Thomas Small, immediately produce the materials." To my horror and surprise, the afore-mentioned little barrel of old Madeira was rolled upon the mess table, which I at once recognized as one I had especially in- trusted to the master's mate of the spirit room for safe keeping during the remainder of the cruise, that office 93   102      TALES FOR THE MARINES. being at the time filled by the worthy gentleman who had just concluded his address. In addition to the wine, there were other creature comrforts produced, such as a large cube of salt beef, as hard as agate, with a tray of biscuits, or midshipmen's nuts, beside it. Lord love ye, Fred! suddenly ejaculated the Lieu- tenant, if you should happen, in these days, to men- tion the unknown words of grog, salt junk, or hard tack in a reefer's mess, the chances are five to one that they'd kick you out of the berth first, and then have you out edgewise in the morning. Why, it's a mortal affront to even allude to any thing more bracing or substantial than Burgundy or sugar wafers. For their nerves are too delicate by far to enjoy the coarse grub we used to es- teem such a treat. On the present occasion, as I was about to tell you, there was, as you may have ere this remarked, a more sumptuous display than ordinary; and when all the "materials" were produced, the presiding officer de- sired, with permission of the company, to send for his tall and amiable acquaintance, Mr. Ash, the carpenter, and an implement to bore a hole 'in the wine barrel, as there was not, strange to say, so useful an apparatus as a corkscrew in the furniture of the mess.  "And," added Mr. Gracieux, with his wonted blandness, to his thirsty and impatient audience, it is ,my private opinion   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       103 that the invention of corkscrews has proved of infinitely more serious injury to the human race than even gun- powder; for, although the process of extermination is more refined, tedious, and expensive, yet in the end it is equally certain in its -results. By the by," continued the speaker, as an idea of considerable magnitude seemed to occur to him,, I am only surprised that some val- iant naval hero of perhaps a hundred bottles, who may have performed admirable service in foreign ports and other precious liquids, where a careful use of those instruments is required in removing obstructions from the mouths of narrow-necked channels-I am only shocked," he- repeated, , that some commodore of wis- dom  and experience in this interesting pursuit has not ere this collected a 'musee of corkscrew artillerie,' and prepared a brief memoir of the form and execution of those engines, since the gradual introduction of glass in place of wine skins, from the medieval ages to the pres- ent day.", At this juncture, Mr. Ash, the carpenter, appeared through the sliding  doors of the steerage, and with an auger of respectable dimensions, soon effected an orifice in the wine breaker. Being requested to name his tipple, he promptly replied,   , Hollands," which fluid being procured, he threw it down his throat like a capsule of castor oil, without touching that passage, closed his lips tight together, fearful lest te aroma might escape, and then vanished.   O4     TALES FOR THE M!ARINES.           ! "Gentlemen," again proposed the chairman, " before we turn our attention seriously to the business on the table before us, would it not be as well to send a cartel to our sympathizing friend Lieutenant John Hazy, to ask him to join us upon this festivity?" O, agreed - only be quick!" shouted all in a vol- ley; and a deputation having been ceremoniously de- spatched to the gun room, there presently arrived a handsome, sailor-built fellow, on the lee side of forty, with so much fun in his twinkling black eyes that it was positively exhilarating to behold him. Hazy was only a passenger on board the -Juniata, going out to join a frigate in the Brazils; but as he was by long odds the most amusing character in the corvette, and his time all his own, he was on the whole a great comfort to us. Hazy was not merely a gentleman, but he professed to be a scholar, a poet, and withal a pas- sionate admirer of theefair sex. We all struggled to rise when he entered the berth; but as he assured us it would break his heart should we incommode ourselves by so doing, we resumed our places. "Jack," said .Gracieux, as he gave him a hearty slap of pure friendship on the back. Now I must observe, here parenthesized the Lieutenant, that although our friend Hazy was the most genial soul in existence to those he loved, yet few others could take liberties with: him; for he declared with Falstaff that he was "Jack   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      105 with his familiars, John with his brothers and sisters, but Sir John with all Europe." "Jack," inquired the chairman, " what will you be- gill with?-the old south-side there, presented to us by that interesting youth on the quadrant case," -here he frowned demoniacally at me, thinking, perhaps, that I might expose the larceny of the little barrel, -" or a throw of spirits?" "My brave companion," replied the officer addressed, "though the sagacious Publius Syrus very justly re- marks that wine has drowned more than the sea,' yet if it be not, according to the discreet and temperate Horace, a poet's beverage vile a. cheap,' as I have not tasted the south-side juice of the grape since the memorable dinner at Madeira, when I proposed to the young lady, and requested leave to begin a series of visits to her on the following day, I will e'en join you in a bowl; but first, if you will allow me, I'll have a compact rum toddy to take away the taste of the fruit and cigar I incautiously indulged in after dinner to- day." "Certainly," acquisesced Mr. Gracieux. "Steward, mix this gentleman a tod." "And I say," crowded in our guest, "don't grate your thumb nail into it by mistake for the nutmeg; for, though I'm convinced its all prejudice, still I prefer the spice from the Philippine Isles. And wait a week," he added;, , steward, don't put too much water with the   1U0     TALES FOR THE MARINES.          : rum; for, though water may be very conducive to nlvi- wi- gation uder the keel, it is at the same time very inju- rious, I maintain, above the keelson. - Ah, that will do; all right," said he, as the mixture was presented to him, while he gave vent to a peculiar whistle, from the very depths of his windpipe, to convey to us the extreme satisfaction he experienced in absorbing his drink. '  The work of the evening was now fairly under way ; the little breaker of wine rolled from side to side until he actually began to gurgle with depletion. "This is a tolerably good vintage, genitlemen,"' ob- served Slade, as he held a full tumbler in his hand; "very fine flavor indeed; could shoot quite close to the line with enough 'of this beverage in one's system,; smacks a twang, though, of the wood, like all the rest of us who live so much down among these huge miasses  i of timber. However, it- aids digestion, which-is all we need here; for I contend that, to live upon the ocean, 1 one should have the gizzard of an ostrich and the stom- ach of a dromedary. As for nerves, those luxuries could be dispensed with altogether'," "Blasphemyr- arrant nautical sacrilege," interposed ? the chairman.  I cannot in my official capacity liste I ! to scph indecorous observations. For my part, I abso-   lutely adore every thing salt and blue, from a herring to the azure orbs of woman." "Except," gravely put in Jack Hazy, "when you chance to have a grand passion for some unconscious fair   TALES FOR -THE MARINES.      107 one, while you are a-way on the unchanging deep, your feelings smothered, and the sweet sensibilities of your susceptible nature agonized by the cold, unfeeling sneers of your boisterous companions.'  "Any aromatic vinegar left in the castors, steward, or mustard?" suggested some one; " for here is a gentle- man under contract to faint." "Why, Hazy," chirped Bonny Bailey, "I thought you were a moment ago congratulating yourself on a matrimonial escape you effected at Maderia the other day." "O, no, my trusty mates; you mistook my meaning entirely. The risk I ran was with the brother; and since you seem so interested, I will explain how the del- icate affair happened.  "soI was dining at the house of one of those wine-sell- ing princes of the grape, and owing to some derange- ment of my pocket chronometer, I had the misfortune to arrive a few seconds after the company were seated at fable, but found a place reserved for me beside one of the most charming young witches it'has ever been my sad M  fate to meet with.  She was gay, conversable and spi- rituelle. She positively idolized the blue jackets; she thought them so frank, so generous; but alas! so hard hearted: She   had 'lived on the sea shore, somewhere !  about Cork; gazed on the waves by the month together;  trembled when it blew, and wept, I think she said, when it calmed. Then, too, she had such tender, confiding **  108     TALES FOR THE MARINES. looks out of her eyes, and smiled so sweetly, that, in short, gentlemen, towards the close of the dinner, when some of the pure nectar from the mother vats had been produced, I began to believe that I was getting very far gone in love; and that, being now of age, how delight- ful it would be to have those soft, dimpled fingers to smooth my pillow, and strew my desolate " - CDissolute, you mean," hinted Rox - - path with the thornless roses, which, I am told, bloom in the little heaven of married life. I turned the matter rapidly over in my mind while the dessert was coming on. I felt that this was my only chance, for there was a ball in the evening, and the ship was to sail the next day. A more excellent opportunity might never present itself. I had twinges at the same time, for I knew that in the event of my changing my estate, I should of necessity have to for- swear the fascinating society of all my intimates, your- selves, gentlemen, among the number.' "What shocking ingratitude!" exclaimed the mess, in one simultaneous shriek. if Not so, my friends ; but I felt that you could not, rough sailors, though honest, perhaps, as you are, appre- ciate the shrinking timidity of a tendei flower, like the one I was about to protect. I say, I thought all these things over as maturely as I could amid the confusion of handing, fruit, and some few innocent familiarities with the tinta, and finally. concluded that, notwith- standing the young person had, as she ingenuously as-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       109 shUred 4me, neither lands nor- dower, yet reflecting that the pious Augustine tells us, ' Humble wedlock is better than proud virginity,' and in spite of the opinion of the immortal Dr. Slop, that 'virginity alone peoples paradise,' I at once threw up my ticket in that lottery, and resolved to take my chance for a prize on earth. "Give me a sip, Mr. Gracieux, that -I may have strength to unbosom myself further," gasped Jack Hazy, as he loosened his cravat and unbuttoned his shirt, to relieve his feelings in the stifling atmosphere which sur- rounded us. "Well, shipmates, the time was getting rather short; and, by the way, I must mention, that through the in- terstices of a great epergne, big as a palm tree, loaded with grapes, confectionery, and wax lights, I had ob- served a gentleman, apparently far gone in a decline, but, nevertheless, of a most resolute physiognomy, who some- what annoyed me by the entire disregard he paid to his food and drink, and the manifest. interest he took in the lovely girl beside me. I  began ,to feel the pangs of jealousy to an uncomfortable extent, and should have decided to ask his intentions, had not my partner, dear little soul, taken occasion to inform me that he was her brother, who had formerly injured his health by hard service in several campaigns in the Low Countries, under the distinguished German general, Count Catzenjammer, of the Pocket Pistol Chopineers, or 'some  such foreign o      10   "O     TALES FOR THE MARINES. legion, but was now unattached to a regiment of the British army. "The epergne, luckily, answered the purpose of a screen, and any of you profane fellows may take your oath that under the cover of a damask napkin, or the table cloth, --I was so extremely agitated I don't now remember which, - I seized a little fluttering hand, and with my mouth full of grapes and ladyfingers, I managed to sputter out my devotion and love-how the pent-up feelings of my bosom had overleaped by their resistless force the barricades of years, and all that sort of thing. In short, I popped in regjular form, and as the little soft hand returned the pressure of mine, and the humid eyes were swimming in liquid light, I knew that my happiness in life was sealed. In my confusion I capsized a wine glass of port all over my adored one's dress, as I tried to hobnob pleasantly with the consump- tive brother, late of the. Chopineers, opposite, who was at that moment quite unconscious of the happy family arrangements about to exist between us. However, it only ruined a rich silk, and that was a mere tissue of moonshine compared to the solid rays of married bliss we were about to enjoy; for I was only three months' pay in arrears to the purser on my ' dead horse,' besides a few outstanding claims at home, which I made a men- tal vow to liquidate as soon as the honeymoon was ended, sc Give me more of the contents of that breaker; it   .   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      1" strongly reminds me of the brief though delicious mo- ments I am relating; and let me hurry on to the singular catastrophe.'" He drew a long sigh as he imbibed the stimulus, and with another of his peculiar whistles, declared himself "tip top," and continued. "I think we were a good while longer at table, but of course I had no eyes or ears for- any thing that was go- ing on. About the last circumstance I recall was asking my fluttering little dove if she would be my partner for the first quadrille at the ball. c No ; she never danced, and never went to balls,' she murmured, .rather sadly; sand they always carry -me away so soon as dinner is over! ' What brutes!' I ejaculated; ' but never fear; my arms shall be your protection, and mine shall be the pleasing privilege of exhibiting to you\ all that is worthy of admiration.'9 '0,' she fondly whis- pered, 'you are too kind. Then how bright will be my fate! ' "At this epoch the entire company moved their chairs from the table, as a signal for rising; and if my senses did not deceive me, I beheld a robust, middle-aged wo- man approach my promised one, and grasping her like a bundle of 'old clothes, lift her up bodily, and bear her 'from my sight. "Petrifaction, my friends, can give you but a faint idea of my rigidity, when I discovered at a glance that she had no legs! How I got through that awful night   "     TALES FOR THE MARINES. I leave you to surmise; but early the next morning, as I was trying to cool with wet plaintain leaves the little bald place on the top of my head, which was caused originally by sleeping in too short a cot, I was startled by the apparition of the brother, Captain Bitter, of the "4th Regiment of Fut, as he called it, who invited me to step out with him on the balcony of the hotel ,at a ' convanient ' distance - he an invalid, too, and the damp morning air being proverbially injurious! "Heaven only knows how I got out of his clutches, or how many apologies I made, written and veibal; suf- fice it to say that on account of that young person's ab- sence of pins, my heart is blighted." At the conclusion of this affecting recital, Jack Gra- cieux desired the clerk to give us a song. The old fel- low's face was slightly flushed by his potations; but his voice was as sweet as ever. He gave us the "Battle of the Nile," with such exquisite pathos and feeling, that even the most riotous held their peace, and the struggles of the little breaker itself were for a while suspended. O Dibdin! burst forth the Lieutenant, in a fit of enthusiasm -O Dibdin! you who had the power to soothe those drooping hearts which were aching to the core, as they mourned the bravest sons of Albi- on falling victorious on the blood-stained decks of her gallant ships! You, O Dibdin! Homer of the sea! who, when the fight was done, and the red flames quenched, and the thunder of battle silenced, lent a j   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        13 charm and pride to the- deeds of the daring tars that will ever cause their sons. to cherish and emulate the glorious actions of those who have gone before them! Brave Dibdin - rhymer for the sailor!" When the good old Belfair had ended his plaintive strain, the wine again flowed, and while a musical mate with the hiccups pealed forth Gay's beautiful ballad, - "'Twas when the seas were roaring With hollow blasts of wind, A damisel lay deploring, All on a rock reclined," - there came a sharp rap at the steerage doors, and the ' master at arms, with his horn lantern, observed that -t was four bells, and that the ten o'clock lights must be dowsed. "Whence comest thou on this blasted heath?" fierce- ly exclaimed Mr. Hazy, as he threw himself into an at- titude. "From   the berth deck, sir," replied the matter-of- fact master at arms, while Mr. Gracieux placed a  brim- ming tumbler, compounded from the ullages of the va- rious vintages left on the table, to the official's lips. The time, however, had arrived for breaking up; the little barrel was in a state of utter emptiness ; our guest, Jack Hazy, bowed to us very politely, returned thanksjin a neat speech for the good cheer, and requesting me indi, vidually to rememnber him  to my   aunt, or any  other 10*   "     TALES FOR THE MARINES.- member of my family, when I should choose to write, he cautiously felt his way 'along the bulkheads, and retired within the gun room. I do not recall an incident worthy of your attention for about forty days after the loss of my small cask of wine, until we made Brazil. We had, it is true, the usual daily divisional exercises at the great guns, and with the small arms; then general quarters each week, and on Sundays inspection and muster, with the articles of war by way of benediction. The paint work was regularly scrubbed, too, and the decks rasped with sand, with great pertinacity; and I remember that towards the last of the passage, we lived so long in puddles of muddy water that we nearly became webfooted. The fact is, that, no matter how big or how little a vessel may be, from a three decker to a pitiful gun brig, first lieutenants, as a distinct genus, believe, owing to some mental aberration, that the eyes of the whole world are upon them; and, upon going into port, ill case there should be seen such a monstrosity as a rope yarn towing overboard, or a topsail sheet within half an inch of being close home, or the lower deck wanting in whitewash, or a belaying pin not polished like a candle- stick, why, hanging ,or suicide must -of necessity be his portion. But, notwithstanding all this minute regard for non-essentials, it is not of very rare occurrence to meet with a fussy, priggish officer, who will slam away a score or more of tompions from- his battery at his first   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      115 salute, and then, mayhap, run his ship on a mud bank, while trying to perform some surprising act of seaman- ship in a crowded roadstead, to the dismay and ridicule of the entire harbor. Moreover, in those my early days on shipboard, I formed the opinion, which I have not yet seen reason to change, that half a dozen stout, active washerwomen could, by contract, keep a man-of-war's decks whiter, and the vessel cleaner, with a little- soap and hot water, than all the hosts of Jack tars who ever performed that delicate service with the scrubbing brush; always pro- vided, however, that those females be left entirely to their own devices, and not meddled with by any of the. trouser folks on board, from the captain all the way down to the cook. It was on one of these sea field days to which I have alluded, when all the marine troops were out, fully equipped, in heavy drenching order, with buckets, swabs, and holystones, going through their exciting evolutions of pumping, soaping, sanding, scrubbing, holystoning, bucketing, and swabbing, in a deluge of thlese elements, -when "Land ho!." came in a chant from the mast head -"Cape Frio;" and the troops, with their arms, were dismissed for the time, while the- breeze hurried us on around the bold, -projecting head- lands, and towards night we slackened our: speed, mid- way between the cape and the mouth of Rio Janeiro."' In approaching this remarkable land, (which has been   "6     TALES FOR :THE MARINES. tossed by some extraordinary freak' of nature into such grand and striking outline,) on the track by which we came, along under the shade of the bold coast, from Cape Frio, one is not so deeply impressed with- the extraordinary formation of the mountains, because a part of the picture is hidden from view. But once sail up to it in broad daylight from the southward, where the narrow barrels of the 7slim "Organ "Moun- tains seem to be drawing their breath from the highest heavens, far inland,-where next the lordly features of the stupendous Corcovado, the adjacent heights, and the hills which sweep in grand succession around, arrest ,the gaze,--while the smooth summit of the "Sugar Loaf" in the centre, and the queer-shaped islands which' lie nearer close up the foreground of the view, -and, save in some few and wonderfully-shaped groups of Polynqsia, you will find nothing on the water part of the globe so grand and imposing as Rio. As we approached the mouth of the bay it- fell calm, and the next morning we were in the same position, and could not move an inch. We seemed to have got into a see-saw of bad luck; for to seaward, vessels were heeling over with full sails, and in shore of us, also, the small craft were moving on briskly. We all impre- cated our fate with considerable earnestness; -but it only wasted our breath, and that was a commodity which, in a calm under the tropic, we could ill afford to lose.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      117 Two more days came and went, and still the barks far and near sailed about according to their fancies; but the Juniata appeared to be held fast in- a smooth little bowl of water, with no immediate prospect of getting out. On the last evening I had the first watch, with my friend Gracieux; but when midnight came, the watch relieved, and our turn to go below, instead of seeking my hot hammock on the steaming lower deck, I pulled a small coil of rope from under the fife rack on the top- gallant forecastle, and, placing it for a pillow on the little square grating which closed the windsail hatch to the deck below, I made a field bed of Kit Dolphin's pea jacket, and, amid the heavy breathing and snoring of the sleeping watch arbund the silent decks,-'-Lr- haps snored a fine tenor to their base. I lay snoozing here very delightfully beneath the twinkling stars, and the easy, graceful waving of the brailed sails and cordage, as they gently swung to and fro over my head, by the almost imperceptible motion of the hull, when I was startled by the deep, musical sound of the ship's bell striking one--the first half hour past midnight. "Bother-!"I muttered, as the liquid clang of the metal rang in my ears, what a bore to have -that great brass instrument hung directly under one's head, to prevent one sleeping!  I felt too drowsy, however, to make much' of an   "8     TALES FOR THE MARINES. effort, and had rolled over to doze off once more, when I heard a hoarse whisper, which seemed to emanate from the very clapper of the bell itself, and, from the few words I caught, claimed my utmost attention. I turned my eyes down between the little square spaces of the grating, and tried to detect the speaker; but all I could distinguish was the forms of two persons in dim outline, standing in the uncertain gloom of the deck below. "Keep quiet," was the first connected sentence I caught; ," until that quarter master gets out of ear shot." Then, when the retreating footsteps of the man who had come- forward to strike the time were no longer heard, the same speaker continued, though not, I thought, in a very- amiable mood, ( Ay, it's pretty near time to steer, clear, matey, from this Yankee cor- vette. She's done us a good turn so far, barrin' a deep grudge I owe that old sea tyrant of a skipper; and a bloody end to me but I'll be even with him, and wipe off the score for all he's done, down to every stripe of those infernal cats." "Hush, my hearty; all in good time," broke in a voice in a soothing tone; and then asked, "( What plans have you now for another billet, in case we bolt?" "O, never fear; I've the token for the Rio partners; and if the news hasn't reached them about that last bungling scrape, they'll help us to as good a lift as they did before, particularly if the old Veloz has run her   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      119 cargo safe. Besides," he added, " my old lass, Loo, is living out near the little falls of Tejuco, for better than a year; and the girl will stand by me, as she did by the surgeon of the convict ship, when Mag and me got up the mutiny, and killed all the other men on board. Sh6's as game as steel, and even wouldn't let me put an end to the fellow! She can do what she likes with old Jose, and if the worst comes to the worst, we'll coax something out of him, or stop his trade." "Much chance of getting away from this craft?" rejoined the second speaker. "You a sailor, and ask a question like that, you fool! and such a blockhead as not to know that there's but two walls to a ship! and the use of those sprawly hoofs and flippers that the devil- has givenw ye, for no good use, I'll be bound. With eyes in that ugly head, arfd a sharp knife in your fist, of a dark night, what more would ye- have, eh? All ye have to steer clear of is your thirst for rum, which more than once, ye know, has nigh ruined the pair of us." "Well, well, matey, that's my natur'; don't be too hard on a chap; you have failin's of your own, maybe, and ye may remember--" 'Here the first speaker broke out in a low, fierce whisper, as if he was touched with something of a recollection of what his comrade was about to give tongue to. "Avast that jaw, and hear what I'm about to say', and mark 'me well. We've been boys together, you'll   X!20     TALES FOR THE MARINES. mind. and sculled in the same boat, as mud larks and- ship thieves, and we've done many a bit of work, by and- large, in the long run; but if we club together again, I'll have no more of your drunken sprees, and your reckless, mutinous spirit. For mind, if ye ever show another sign of rebellion, I'll kill you like I did the other pal of ours, when he dared dispute my orders about shooting the girl." He said all this savagely, and added, "Ned, you know, saved my head, and neck too, in the affair with the Primrose." , Ay," rejoined the second speaker, and I perceived a sudden movement of his body, as if in anger, while his harsh tones, low as they were, trembled with passion. "Ay, I do remember it well;, and though you did the murder, it was a shameful and cowardly act to kill yer true friend, who had stood by ye in trouble. And now, let's understand one another: as you say, we've both been steeped to the roots of the hair on our heads in crime ; any one of 'em would give us a whip at the fore yard, and curse the odds; "but in all the leagues we've rolled over the salt seas together, you've befriended me, and I'm not the man to forsake ye. Now, since the chaps has all gone, and this last bad run of luck, you want me agin; well, I'm willin' on certain terms. I know you're my superior in larnin' and skill, and I freely tell ye, that so long as ye behave fair I'll stand shoulder to shoulder, come what may, like a back to a -blade. At the same time, mind, I must have a bit of a   TALES FOR THE MARINES.    12  1 frolic occasionally, for that's all the pleasure I has, when I gets a little chink in my becket; and ye know, too, that I don't care much for that stuff, for a dollar goes with me as fur as a gold ounce does with you, when ye put on your grand airs, and shower it about like a nabob. Howsoever, hear the conditions I wants to make: you must bear with my faults, and I'll obey you like a sailor; but should ye ever try the same game again, when that helpless little chicken was in the way, I'll plant my mark upon your carcass, even should ye be protected by every pirate who ever trod a ship's decks." After this burst of excitement, the pair appeared to stand silently regarding each other for more than a minute, when the same voice which had last spoken went on. {"What say ye, lad? Am I to call ye master, and are we to clasp hands upon it? or will ye paddle your own canoe, and leave me on board this smart corvette to battle the watch with the Jonathans?" There was another long pause; when, in reply to this proposition, the fellow said, (hissing the words out slowly and deliberately through his closed teeth,)- -Ay, I do want ye.* I know ye to be brave andi willing when the rum's not aboard; but, nevertheless, should any thing turn up at Rio, which I feel pretty sure there will, I'll take ye as chief mate. Now, let by- gones be bygones. What's over is done for - I neither regret nor care. Blast the past and the future in a "   ,122     TALES FOR THE MARINES. hep---I go for the present; but my principles differs from yours, and I shall abide by them; so you must take heed' and when we stand on the same planks where I command, if you show your teeth I'll put an end to ye. However," he added, " don't let us split for a trife; the time may not come when we'll be likely to fall out, and here's my fist upon the bargain; for good men is scarce in these times." ,' Well, agreed, my hearty! and there's the old- fashioned grip," replied his companion; and the two, apparently, clasped hands upon their pious compact. I had been reflecting for some time how I could best identify the brace of worthies whose conversation I had overheard; but there was not a ray of light shed beneath the forecastle, so that I could distinguish their features; and I felt' aware that the least movement, on my part, from within two feet of their ears, would instantly defeat my object. Long before I could get down the ladder, and to their position, they could secrete themselves among the clusters of men sleeping or lounging about the decks. However, this was the only chance I had of detecting them, and just as I heard the voice of the orderly at the cabin doors cry out, in the calm night, '"Two bells!" I knew there was no time to :lose, as the quarter master would soon come forward to strike the hour again. So, as cautiously-as possible, without making noise- enough to disturb a mouse, I raised my head from the grating.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.     RI 3 But, in gradually backing out, to gain my feet, I chanced to stick the toe of my shoe into the open mouth of a snoring forecastleman, who closed his jaws with such a sharp nip, that it made- me utter a suppressed maledic- tion. 'My toe being at length released, I made a spring, still mindful of my purpose, and grasping one of the numerous pieces of running rigging about the foremast, I slid rapidly from the break of the topgallant forecastle to the deck, and then making a dive into the dark space, I rushed to the spot where I hoped to findd the men. As I reached it, and putting forth my arms, seized a man, exclaiming, the while, s"Who are you?"I heard the voice of Holbertson, one of the best men in the ship, reply, "What's that to you? Out of the way, and let me strike two bells." "O! Holbertson, "I said, " is that you? Did you find any body here?" "No, sir," he answered, upon recognizing my voice; "but I think some one dropped down the scuttle, there, on to the berth deck, just as I got forward." I said no more, convinced that the persons I was in pursuit of had taken the alarm and escaped. So, as sleep in those days was at a premium with a younker like me, I betook myself again to the pea jacket couch and rope pillow, and slept until four o'clock, when old Kit shook me awakle, and told ine to go below before the decks were wet. I related to my trusty friend the conversation I had   24     TALES FOR THE MARINES.            j verheard; but since it had no particular bearing upon ie Juniata, save in a contemplated desertion,-- which  as not of rare occurrence with sailors, --and as we had - o suspicions of any individuals in particular, Kit advised ie to "luf de matter be, and say nothin' to nobody pon de subjec'.' This advice I promised to follow, ad went below to my hammock. With the sun there sprang up a wind off the land, nd old Percy resolved to head the ship right out to sea, i order to anticipate the sea breeze a little, and may e, escape from the belt of calm water which had be-    i evilled us.  There were scores of vessels, of different nations, ' eading every way around the compass, either recently ut or bound into Rio ;but there was a heavy brig of    A war, which seemed to have neither object, for she had  een dodging about, close to the coast, near where we   i iad been becalmed, only under topsails, jib, and spanker, s if she had no wish to spread so large a clew as to aake her conspicuous. On the morning I speak of, however, she too had aken the notion of leaving the narrow bight where she lad been secluded, and with the gentle land wind came  tuietly across our bows to leeward, where, hoisting Eng- i ish colors and pennant, she threw her foretopsail to the i mast. As we- came close side by side, an officer with   I a pair of gleaming swabs on his shoulders raised his    hat to old Percy, who was standing with some of his s  -            TALES FOR THE MARINES.      125 subordinates on the poop, and in a fine, manly voice said, " This is his Britannic majesty's brig Snake." The compliment was at, once returned by our com- mander with, ("The United States corvette Juniata, forty- eight days from St. Thomas, on the coast of Africa." ' Will you tell me, sir, if you have seen or heard any thing of a brace of slavers, on your passage to Brazil?" "What sort of vessels were they?" "One a large brig, carrying eight carronades, and a long gun amidships, with a crew of about fifty men." "Yes, sir, I assisted in getting hold of a pirate an- swering to that description, at the Canaries," rejoined old Percy. We could perceive a look of chagrin pass over the countenance of the handsome- officer, as he made a gesture of disappointment to the gentlemen around him; but resuming the conversation, - "I am glad to hear that, sir, though I envy you the l capture, for she was bound here, and I was in hopes I should have had her in my clutches before she could land her cargo." Captain Percy here related the general facts relative to her capture and character. 'c I have no doubt, captain, rejoined the officer, from the information we have, that she is the same vessel; but did you hear any thing of her consort, a very clumsy- looking hermaphrodite brig, rough about the upper works and spars, though a Baltimore clipper under "*   126     TALES FOR THE MARINES. water, has the legs of a hound, and carries, we hear, six hundred slaves?"  "I regret to say that I have not fallen in with such a vessel," said old Jack; but the quarter master, Holbert- son, who stood by, with the spyglass in his hand, touched his hat, and observed, "I saw a craft like that, sir, day before yesterday, just inside Cape Frio there. She was working close under the land, very smartly too, sir; painted lead color above the water, and looked quite rusty aloft. I wouldn't be surprised if she was in sight now from the topsail yard."    i "eAh," exclaimed Percy, with a start, as he com- municated the report to the captain of the brig of war; and then, hailing the mast head, he bade the look-out see if the vessel was yet in sight. "Nothing to seaward, sir, of that rig, though here- away, under that bluff point of rocks, there's a topsail schooner or polacre, I can't tell which." They were all alive, too, aloft on board the brig,; and as the sea breeze was indicated by a few dark patches to the southward, the officer courteously thanked the cap- tain for the information, and sheered off to have a nearer peep at the suspicious stranger. I imagine that Mad Jack wouldn't have disliked to have taken a shy himself at a Guinea trader;, but it was a rather ticklish business for us, in those days, to meddle with vessels having papers of a nation with whom 'we had no treaty stipulations regarding the slave trade; and   TALES FOR THE MARINES.    .  127 rather than go out of his course, and perhaps burn his fingers, he squared away for Rio. The breeze, to -make up for its idleness during the past few days, came with a cap full, and the officer of the watch took in the upper sails to save Eolus the trouble of doing it for him. On we flew towards Re- donda, while a fleet of vessels, far and near, were all crowding in the same direction, to the great commercial port beyond. We had forgotten our man-of-war friend of the morn- ing, until, just as we began to draw in between the Straits of Redonda and the opposite islands, we saw a large, lumbering craft, apparently, with dingy, patched sails, but nevertheless carrying a taut rag, and spirling to windward like a witch. As she came out from the in- shore passage formed by the "Daddy" and "Mammy " rocks, we heard ihe- boom of a gun; and at the instant a twenty-four pound shot struck her above the hounds 'of the foremast at the doublings of the masts, and whiz- zing on half spent, dropped into the water close upon our beam.  "Bueno!" exclaimed old Jack; " the fellow who fired that gun had an eye like a hawk, even if he did over- shoot the mark a little. Hillo! by the Lord, look how he has taken the wind out of her sails!" Sure enough ; not only the wind was knocked out of her, but thae wood too; for in a moment the topmast gave one drunken nod, and, with the topsail and upper   128     TALES FOR THE MARINES. canvas, toppled over, pulling the main topmast with it, and the whole maze of masts, sails, and gear fell a heap of wreck upon the deck. The vessel came up in the wind, got in irons, and lay like a log upon the water, while presently the clean, sharp black bows and even tier of fangs of the Snake, with as much canvas as she could well stagger under, the spray flying high up the weather leeches of her courses, came with a rush from beyond the ledge of the islands, and had barely time to clew up topgallant sails before she had nearly run over her crippled prize. We gave them a cheer as we dashed by, and, con- tinuing on, ran like a race horse past the smooth base of the- Sugar Loaf, and not giving time to the old -sojer at Santa Cruz to get a reply to his hail, in a few -min- utes the cables were rattling out with a flying moor in the magnificent bay of Rio Janeiro. The narrator paused, and, perceiving the attention of his fair listeners beginning to flag, he improvised a slight headache by way of excusing himself on the occasion, and then broke off his narrative for the evening. ' 4   CHAPTER V. THE Lieutenant took his place by the fire. The ladies desired to be amused. Fred informed them the scene was now in Brazil, and his uncle resumed:- The morning after our arrival in Rio we saw the lead- colored hermaphrodite brig lying under the guns of an English frigate, with her decks swarming with poor blacks, enjoying God's greatest blessings, which man had denied them-a few mouthfuls of pure air and fresh water. It may be as well to mention here that the commander of the frigate, who was not only a humane officer, but a philanthropist, took measures, during the absence of the admiral, for removing the poor wretches to some con- venient point of the bay, so as to lessen the sufferings which they were enduring between the close slave decks of their floating prison and hell. For my own part, boy as I was, I thought no more about the business, being far too deeply absorbed in sucking oranges, bananas, and grapes, and indulging in other delicacies: brought alongside by our fat bumboat man, Joe Moskeet, from Cobras Island. Then I never tired of wandering through the narrow streets of the city, (129)   130     TALES FOR THE MARINES. peeping into the diamond -marts and gay shops, or sip- ping chocolate and whiffinga paper cigars at the showy cafe in the palace square. Every thing had interest for me, from beholding the splendid panorama of the bay to passing the time, from daylight in the morning until breakfast, in the jolly boat at the palace stairs, waiting : for the ship's provisions, and preventing the boat's crew from lacing their coffee with too much gin, which they called "devil's swill." Aside from these my active duties, the good oldcap- tain would take me with him occasionally to the pic- turesque suburbs, Gloria, Boto Fogo, and Praya Fla-    I mingo, where, at dinner or in the evenings at the dwell- ings of the foreign residents, I passed many agreeable hours. It was then I learned to speak a little Portuguese, and to think it no sin to press the soft fingers of the ju-, venile donas, practising first with those in pantalettes,  but gradually gaining confidence,' and working my way up to those of a more appreciative age.          i "Ah, I suspect there is a love affair coming," said a sentimental damsel among the Lieutenant's auditors.    I There would have been, I assure you, said he, with an air of gallantry, had you been old enough in those days to receive my devotion. But you shall hear all in good  , time; we must not anticipate. One night, as we were returning from one of the de- lightful little dancing rEunions near the snowy beach of i   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      131 Boto Fogo, still dreaming that I was pressing the soft hand of a little sweetheart, instead of the tiller ropes, I steered the gig rather wild, when old Percy gave me a sharp pinch on the lobe of my ear, his usual endearing way of expressing his-feelings, which I would willingly have dispensed with, saying,' "You little lubber, you'll be on Villegagnon reef, if you don't mind your eye; head more for the French admiral's light; the Juniata is in wake of her."          - I brightened up a bit, and as we caught sight of the dark mass of the corvette resting so quietly on the calm, unbroken surface of the harbor, while the entire bay seemed paved with sparkling brilliants, reflected from the glittering stars above, we saw a red flash from the ship, and then another, quickly followed by the reports of muskets. We pulled rapidly alongside, and on reaching the deck, the first lieutenant reported that two men had. swum away, the sentries had fired, and the dinguy been out in chase, but could find nothing. The follow- ing morning, when the crew were mustered, it was dis- covered that the two men who had been shipped at St. Thomas were missing. "Glad to be rid of the rascals," said the captain, when the affair was made known to him.' "I sincerely trust that they have taken an ounce or two of lead with them. But keep quiet for a day or two, and when they emerge from their hiding-places, we'll send for them."   132      TALES FOR THE MARINES. At the period I speak of, an organized police was a thing unheard of in Rio. It was during the ill govern- ment which succeeded the anarchy and confusion attend- ant upon the abdication of Don Pedro, and subsequent to the massacre and troubles of the foreign legions. The fate of the English legion was sad indeed. It was led by as gallant a band of officers, many of whom had served in the British army, as ever shed blood in a good cause. They fought, too, and conquered: but what was their reward? They were in great part bar- barously treated, by the very nation for whom they came to wage war, and many lingered out miserable lives in Brazil, or returned home to die from sheer want. One out of a number of the leaders of this expedition, Colonel McGregor, as brave a Scot as ever drew sword since the days of Bruce, and who had distinguished himself in the Peninsula, after sacrificing the little for- tune he had, to maintain the Brazilian imperial forces in the southern provinces, and taking Montevideo, was at a later day "whistled down the wind" without a crutch to support his riddled frame. This is not a more gloomy picture of events than have happened in Peru, Chili, and the sister states, all over the entire South American continent; and so it was with the English legion in Spain, I believe, during the Carlos and Chris- tina war. I was there when Fitzgerald was in conm- mand of the legion, and though he and his companions received decorations and orders without number for ^  ,           .  .  -   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       133 their gallant services, yet the orders were not upon the treasury, or, if they were, they were not honored. Whether we, on this side of the Atlantic, shall ever have greater reason to congratulate ourselves, when we take up arms for those heroic Cuban patriots who stood so calmly by the other day, and beheld their fillibustero friends shot down by scores, without even offering a paper cigar to console their last moments, is yet to be discovered. The truth is, however, that tiese supine  creoles, together with their pompous progenitors, have an in- superable horror and natural antipathy to the Anglo- Saxon race; and though on grand occasions they may permit us to avenge their quarrels, or achieve a tran- sitory independence for them, in the end they are very profuse in their thanks, but chary of gratitude; and "habiendo pregonado ving, venden vinagre,"--having recommended wine, they treat us to lemon juice, -- and with a cold "Buenas noches," they bid us go about our business. In these respects, however, they are not unlike the modern Greeks, models as they are for patriotism.. I remember hearing my friend Jack Gracieux say that, ;during their revolution in '27, a ship load of cloth- ing having been sent them  from the 'United States,. together with some good wholesome prog, to be landed at one of the islands in their possession, a large party of the most virtuous and enthusiastic of these model 1 r   134  ,   TALES FOR THE MARINES. Greeks not only declined to assist in discharging the cargo without pay, but the jolly republicans broke open the magazines, where the stores were placed after land- ing, and helped themselves, without waiting for the philo-something societies to distribute them.   " To return, however, to affairs at Rio/aneiro.  At this period, assassins stalked boldly at midday, stabbed their men, swallowed their coffee, sucked their cigars, and said their prayers, in regular order; while at night there was a body of- less reputable miscreants, the refuse of all nations, who prowled about the worst purlieus of the, city, even to the palace square, and committed every species of horrid atrocity. This band of metropolitan brigands were styled the "fish-market gang," and they constituted themselves the liege protectors of deserters from the ships of war or merchantmen lying in the port, and were always prepared, at the shortest notice, to furnish the government, or owners of a slave vessel, with sufficient force to land a cargo in the secluded inlets and nooks near the mouth of the bay. The authorities of Rio, actuated either by interest, fear, or indolence, took no decided steps to do away with the nuisance; and so long as the battalion of rascals refrained from riots with the soldiers, or killing slaves for pastime, they escaped with total impunity. Occa- sionally, however, a few of the gang would violate these tacit pledges, and upon ,getting drunk, if they were so indiscreet as 'to lie down in the square or mar-    TALES FOR THE MARINES.      135 okets, the exasperated troops would pounce upon these- detached squads, while the main body of their friends were afar. After cutting and hacking them senseless, they would drag them away to the chains of Cobras Island, or else consign them to the prison hulk, moored in the upper end of the harbor, where they were made to pick oakum, and beaten unmercifully with narrow, flat boards, having holes in them, by way of exercise and recreation to the drummers and boatswains on board. About a week after the escape of Lowther and Mur- den,-by which names, being those they bore on the purser's books, I shall continue to designate them,- it being my day for duty, I was ordered to go on shore' with Tom Slade to search for the deserters. Each had. the selection of two men. Slade chose his favorites from the crew, and I of course, for one, selected Kit Dolphin, and a marine named Morris, to accompany me. He was an American by birth, a man of education, and had evidently seen better days.. Some said a wife had proved unfaithful to him, a desperate and fatal duel had followed, the gaming table and the bottle had done the rest. Observing his studious, quiet deportment, I had occasionally procured him valuable books from the ship's library,-i service which he seemed to appreciate. He was of an age past forty, I should judge, and his nose had been almqst cut in twain by the blow of a bowie knife or bullet; but- yet he had fine eyes, and an agreea- ble, though decided expression of visage. I knew noth- r1.    1 VD     TALES FOR THE MARINES. ing of him, however, save what I had seen in the Juniata, and a little inb'e6nt which occurred on board the receiving hulk, While we were fitting out. He was on post one day when a bullying topman roughly attempted to transgress his orders. In a moment, Morris struck him -down, with a deep bayonet wound through the shoulder. The man was carried in a critical plight to the hospital, and an investigation of the affair was held. When the facts were elicited, and the marine was called upon for his defence, he merely replied in a firm, though respect- ful manner, that "when the government put arms in his hands, they were for use; and had his brother at- tempted to disobey his orders, he would have killed him as a matter of duty." 1te was acquitted without a dis- sentient voice. On the occasion of the search for the deserters, Slade with his party went on shore early in the afternoon, and, as was correctly surmised by his friends, long before dark, he was- knocking the balls about at the billiard table of the Hotel du Nord, and, in a very groggy state of health, was striving to induce a respectable indi- vidual, whom he had met, to take a " pop across the table." He had given directions, too, for decent forage, rations, and drink, to be served out to his attendants, so that, long before the time for action came, they were uproariously oblivious to all matters of a strictly prac- tical nature.' I left the corvette soon after dark, dressed in a come        TALES FOR TrHE MARINES.      137 imon check shirt, light trousers, and guernsey cap, in company with Kit and Morris, who were also attired in a similar species of mufti. On getting on shore, Dol- phin left me and the marine, to wander about a little, to see if he could pick up any information relative to the men we were in quest of, while we sauntered around the square, or in front of the 'cathedral,' and e,  beheld a few fireworks let off, which were intended to announce the birth-day of a saint or martyr, or some other personage of distinction. In an hour Kit returned, apd said that he had fallen in with a lot of liberty men from an English frigate, who were all going to the establishment of a notorious crimp, a Hamburg Jew, named Surf, where, perhaps, we might find Lowther and Murden. As it was yet rather early, we left the square, and wandered through the dark, filthy lanes, which, were reeking in mud and masses of rotting vegetable matter, where the low blinds and jalousies were closed and barred, and nothing heard, save, here and there, the roar of some inebriated soldier, or lost mariner, as he trolled forth-his maudlin ditty.  At last we reached the quarter of the town where the crimping rendezvous of the Jew was situated. It filled considerable space, but the main building, which was tall and of three stories, stood on a corner, while irregular clusters of tenements branched away in several directions, back to a lane in the rear, with grog shops 12*   138'     TALES FOR THE MARINES. at either end. Wre made as good a reconnaissance of the premises --and very extensive they were - as we rea- sonably could from outside, in the unpaved, unlighted, gloomy, noisome lanes and alleys, and then, having sat- isfied our curiosity, we entered the pulperias one after the other, by the different entrances. Crowds of sailors of all nations were in these grog shops, boisterous, quarrelsome, and tipsy. On one side of the apartment was a bar, strongly-railed in by a fine iron wirework grille, behind which there was a goodly array of jugs, cases of gin, aguardiente, and a vile-ompound, called kesash, constantly bein, dispensed, in ,heavy glass tumblers, through small traps, to those who called for the liquor. These retreats were served by several disgusting looking tap drawers, who, secure behind their wire fortress, could refuse to furnish the fiery potations to those without money, and risk the solid glass missiles which were not unfrequently hurled at their heads by the riotous customers. By wide passages leading from the tap rooms were two tolerably large halls, redolent with the fumes of pipes and rum, while jigs and country dances were going on to the music of violins and guitars. I soon became tired with these scenes of low revel and de- bauchery, and the coarse vulgarity of language and gesture used by the degraded nymphs who were' min-- gling with their rude paramours in the dance; and think- ing- that there might be a chance of finding our quarry   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      139 in other parts of the building, more especially as the rooms below were continually filled by fresh arrivals, who were coming and going from all directions, I intimated my intention to Kit of taking a little voyage of discovery, and returning presently/4o-let him know the result. The old black, at first-seemed disinclined to trust me out of his sight, since I had already, more than once, been cuffed and buffeted, by the groggy sailors, and spun round quite roughly by the loosely and flamingly attired figurantes of the dance halls. On these occa- sions, however, Morris would be quietly moving by my side, with his attention apparently fixed upon some in- different object; and I knew that he would not see harm done to me. As for old Kit, whenever he happened to observe these disagreeable familiarities, he would roll in between us, in a half-drunken, affected state of jollity, giving the aggressor a heavy flip from his stalwart arm, accom- panied by a jovial laugh, and 6"Hands off de pickaninny, sar," or S Qui-dow! marm! don't make lub to a baby, when dere is a full-grown young gentleman, ike dis little nigger, in de room," which system of practice usually acted as an effectual hint, not -only to the men, but the gentler vessels, to desist from their affectionate endearments to me.  Once, while Christopher was making a polite extem- poraneous speech of this kind to one of these damsels,   "O      TALES FOR THE MARINES. in some outlandish and unintelligible lingo, I saw a tall, slim, and very sharp featured woman, with a thin red hawk-bill nose, and light green eyes, and a sinister up and down squint, approach. She was dressed in a gaudily striped muslin skirt, which she held up by the hem, exposing her macaroni-like legs and slipshod, hose- less feet. The bodice of her dress was unlaced, and was merely confined to one shoulder by a single enor- mous skewer of a pin, like the romantic Cherubina's robe, when she went stark staring mad in white satin. From the florid hue of her high cheek bones, and the tip of her beak, I surmised that the color had been laid on with a brush dipped in gin, while the neutral tints of the other parts of the visage might have been mixed from the various liquid paints of the tap. On the whole, I concluded that to whatever school she had been a devotee, water colors were not to her taste. She was evidently a person of exalted consideration in that ball, for men- and women made room for her as she came scuffling quickly over the sanded floor. But she came upon me so suddenly, that I had not. time, had I been inclined, to step out of her path; so, with a ladylike kick, she just grazed my ear, and sent my cap flying off my head to the ceiling, squeak- ing out at the same time, in a shrill, harsh tone, -"Out, of my way, you brat." Notwithstanding her sex, I was so stung with the merrimnent that ensued against me, in consequence of   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      141 the surprising exploit she had performed, that I was on the point of convincing the bystanders, according to an early precept I had learned in Virgil, that "not with their feet, but Lands, the valiant fight." As I rushed forward to tear her flimsy vestments from her scrawny body, the huge bulk of old Kit Dolphin inter- posed, and seizing the hag by both hands, and shaking them until she writhed in pain, he blurted out, with a hearty chuckle, "Sarvint, marm; how fur hab you ebber made a bite into a watermillion wid dem sharp, narrer jaws?" This address, together with the wrench she had suf- fered in her long, dirty fingers, and the laugh which rose from the sailors around at the allusion to her hatchet-shaped face, and capacity for biting into a water- melon, to say nothing of her libations, threw her into a furious rage on the spot.  Losing sight of me, who had been the original cause of the quarrel, she opened a hot fire upon Christopher. "t What!" she screamed, "ye domingfaced, indigo- stained nigger, do ye dare to gibe me in my own house? I'll have ye in the Misericorde afore daylight." Ho! ho! yaw!" roared old, Kit. "Wy, my pritty mllissis, .don't go to- mind the old darkey; come, fetch us half a pint of fast-rate schnaps." Whether the, compliment to her beauty or the order for the gin mollified her for the moment, I can't say; but she turned sharp round on her heel, and whisked   "2     TALES FOR THE MARINES. out to the tap, leaving a muttered curse about some- body's throat and heart. I afterwards heard that this woman was strongly sus- pected of having been one of the convicts' who had risen on board a transport bound to -Botany Bay, and with the assistance of two of the crew and her female !myrmidons, had murdered all the guard and officers, with the exception of the surgeon. They then man- aged to navigate the ship into the River Plate, where they made good their escape.  It was said that the British government had taken the most active measures to arrest the mutineers, and succeeded in bringing great numbers of them to the scaffold. They were scattered, -however, all over the continent; and whether the proofs were not sufficiently strong to convict the woman who took the name of Mag Surf, I do not know; but she had thus far evaded the justice that was supposed to be her due.  As, however, I had again the opportunity, during- the evening, of becoming more intimately acquainted with this interesting lady, I will not detain you longer at present with other items of her history. Before the schnaps had been served to Kit, I again intimated my resolution of making an exploration of the crimping house. I did not wish to return to the ship empty handed, although I was clearly convinced that notwithstanding my illimitable regard -for disci- pline and the slightest whim of my superior officers,    TALES FOR THE MARINES.       143 yet at times even a captain's ideas of propriety were inconsiderate, when he chose to. send a mere boy after runaway sailors, amidst the lowest haunts of vice and infamy, in an ill-regulated city like Rio Janeiro. But I determined to make a trial. With a final whispered caution from  Kit and the marine, to keep my eyes skinned and my whistle clear, I slipped out of the dance halls, after promising to return in an hour. I mounted the first stairway I came to, and found myself on the second story, in a long suite of nar- row dormitories, lined with nests of field beds, with here and there a drunken sailor stretched half lifeless on his pallet, while his maudlin cries or unmeaning mutterings were only interrupted by the squealing of a regiment of rats trooping about the rooms and pas- sages. I noticed particularly one gray-haired veteran, sedately sitting on his hamns, gnawing away at a sput- tering tallow link which stood in an iron sconce upon a bracket of the wall. I ascended still another flight of stairs, and came, to a succession of stifling dens, quite as loathsome and offensive as the last; and being now satisfied- with my expedition, I; made up my mind to make the best of. my way out of the filthy warren, but by some other means of egress than that by which I had entered, and then seek my companions, and return oln board the corvette; for the night was growing old, and I judged the time to be near twelve o'clock.   "4     TAF.,S FOR THE MARINES. I continued on along a dark corridor, expecting at each moment to meet a stairway, turning first one way and then another, until I got so bewildered that I could neither find the passage back nor yet form the faintest conjecture as to whibch part of the building I was in. At last, however, a dim ray of light caught my' eye, and advancing a few steps farther, I came to an open- ing in the angle where two walls joined, and passing through a broken, jagged aperture, I found myself in open air, on a broad stone coping which ran around one of the buildings. The stars were shining lustrously above my head, winking and twinkling to one another in the calm, blue vault, while the crescent -moon, looking pale, jaded, and wan, was going to rest, with its faint yellow light, be- hind the beetling brow of the broken back Corcovado. In other respects the view lower down was shut out in a great degree, save a glimpse I caught, many a league off, of the t-ube-like cones of the Serra dos Orgoas, just visible through a cleft of the houses and walls near me. Below my feet, all was as black as ink; and it seemed like a great square well, of immense depth, formed by the closely-abutting gables of the surrounding build- ings. After peering down this murky chasm, I moved on along the coping until, upon turning an angle, a light from a skylight in the roof flashed directly in my eyes, and at the same time I -heard. the sound of voices rising from below. In approaching nearer I stepped-   TALES FOR THE MARINES..      145 from the parapet upon what seemed a square and large chimney, covered partly with tiles on the top; but such, a horrible stench greeted me that I was glad to leave it, and continue along the roof. Pausing as I came abreast of the glass scuttle, I dis- tinctly heard a few sentences from a man's voice, which I thought came from one of the deserters I was in search of.  To return, however,. by the way I came was'out of the question; for I had already been at fault in the main building, and getting back to it was no easy mat- ter. I felt assured there must be some  descent in another direction from the place where I was standing, since there were a  number of upright poles stuck about the coping, and  a few lines for clothes strung from one to the other.         .  . My   surmise proved correct; for after feeling' my tracks cautiously on a  few yards farther, I came to a half-open door, .leading into an adjoining tenement, and softly descending a  narrow flight of .stone steps, I found  myself in a passage which evidently took the direction to the rear of the crimping house. I was on the point of continuing along this outlet, when I again heard the sound -of the voices which attracted me above; and pausing, to make quite sure, my curiosity overcame my prudence, and I carefully groped my way to the end of the passage, where a heavy door arrested my progress. Crouching down '13   "6     TALES FORl THE MARINES. and creeping close to the door, I obtained a full view of the party within through a round hole from which the knob of the lock had been removed. The room was of considerable size, and well lighted by a lamp stuck in a tin reflector against the wall. There were a few prints of flaunting young women bidding good-by to their lovers, who, attired in intensely blue jackets, and enormous ribbons streaming from their tar-l paulins, were standing on unnaturally yellow beaches, with ships under a crowd of sail in the offings. There was a print, also, of the Virgin, with a pipe in her mouth, and a pair of mustachios roughly charcoaled by some sacrilegious artist. All were dangling lop-sided upon the walls. The ceiling showed the rafters, and took the angle of the roof, where, too, was the skylight of blue ribbed bull's eyes, which' had first caught my attention. A table stood rather on one :side of the room, with a long bench at one end, and a number of heavy stools of the hard wood of the country ranged at the other. There were four persons seated at this board; one a low, squat-built, repulsive-looking object, with a tawny skin, a glittering, black, beetle-shaped eye,-and a wiry, ragged fringe of hair spread over his upper lip, which did not serve to conceal a large tusk of a tooth, and the only one he could boast of in the whole upper frame of his mouth. He was dressed in an attempt at lolng   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      14 togs, striped calico coat and trousers, and on his coal- Maltee Joe. 1 At his side sat, or rather stood,-when I first caught a glimpse of him, a man who rose to the height of more than six feet. His head borethe same relative propol- tion to his body that a gooseberry would to an eg. It was very small, but remarkably formed-running up, as it were, to a point; quite like, as Kit afterwards compared it, to a "hominy mortar." On this apex of a head was a thin layer of sandy hair, which, from the attention paid to it by the proprietor, seemed to be a source of never-failing care and comfort; for he rarely ceased to smooth, moisten, and plaster it down his hol- low cheeks and behind his peaked ears. Eyebrows he had none; but below where they usually are placed in his species there shone 'a pair of light bluish eyes, so cold, hard, and' cunning in their expression, that they closely resembled the orbs of a  shovel-nosed shark. The nose was short and snubby, and beneath were a pair of thin, cat-like lips, parting over a wide mouth and a double row of sharp teeth. The throat was nearly the span of his head, and it sloped and swelled a  way to the rounded shoulders, where the arm s came into the pictur e  -great, lon g, bony joints, tipped with skeleton flippers, like the claws and feelers of a lobster. His bac k spreadout broad and flat. at the hips, and th e ^=^rS          =^       shehps, n te   "8      TALES FOR THE MARUINES. lower limbs appeared cast in a similar mould with the arms. He might have existed full half a century, for his skin, ornhide more properly, was of the hue of new- ly tanned leather, and graven in a million of wrinkles. Altogether he was not a model of manly beauty that a sculptor would have, perhaps, selected to carve, but still he impressed me as one of the most muscular human structures I ever beheld; which, taken in connection with the wily, but fearless sagacity depicted in his looks and bearing, made me believe, without a moment's hesi- tation, that he would prove a very cross-grained bit of flesh to cope with. The third person of this interesting little group T at once recognized as Mr. Tom Murden, late of the Junia- ta. He had only changed his man-of-war rig by tear- ing off the white collar of his frock, and substituting a skull cap for his regulation hat. His eyes. were blood- shot, and his general appearance indicated a long and ardent devotion to rum since he had so unceremoniously left us. He had also a dirty cotton bandage wound around his ear, which, with the other alterations in his attire, had not increased his personal beauty. The last man of the party had been so well meta- morphosed that- it was a long while before I could recognize a resemblance to Lowther.  The sailor's habiliments had given place to a cambric embroidered shirt, white kerseymere trousers, silk stockings, pumps,. well-fitting dark frock coat, and silk kerchief loosely tied   TALES FOR-TH  MARINS.      149 about the large, full throat. The face was shaded by a broad, fine Panama hat, and when he looked up during the, conversation with his companions, I saw that nearly all of his huge whiskers had. been shaved off to the throat; and by the glare of the strong light from the refector, I observed a deep red seam which traverserl his cheek firom the ear to the jaw bone. The burning words of the afflicted woman on board the English brig; the Arabella, came upon me  in sickening force, for I had no doubt but that the villain was before me who had murdered her child. So soon as I recovered my faculties, I thought of im- mediately beating a  retreat, and with the assistance of my friends making an effort to capture the scoundrels; but lingering a moment, the words they uttered so fascinat- ed me that I  could not resist the temptation of remain- ing a while longer; and accordingly I stood very quietly an attentive witness of the doings and conversation \ Withilln. Lowther was smoking a cigar with great satisfaction and gravity; and, though he and the huge living skeleton near him seemed cool as a dairy, the others were suffer- ing by the extreme heat of the room. As I observed before, the tall man was standing when I first remarked him; but it was only for a moment, as it appeared, to get, if possible, a full view of his hand- some person in a   small fragment of looking glass, let into a  piece of wood, which he held with a vain sm irk 13"-   1.50     TALES FOR THE MARINES. before him. -He was speaking, too; and as he resumed his seat and replaced his mirror, by a small toggle, to a single suspender which held up his short, striped cotton trousers, he drawled out, with a singing, nasal twang, directing his conversation to the Maltese, - , Yis, merlatty; you air pritty nigh 'bout right: I guess we air a tolerably handsome family, and hev at- tenevated feeturs. Pop was a Marblehead man, and the old woman was a conk from ther Beheymees, where Pop got her on a wrackin' vyge; and lts ginerally consid- ered 'long our shore to be kinder good for the breed to cross; it sorter makes the grizzil hard and fibry; jist try."  Hereupon he reached out his-thumb and fore finger to the Maltese, who did not appear at the beginning of this short address to relish altogether the epithet of mer- latty; but when the steel-like clasp of his neighbor's hand closed on his thumb, and caused the blood to spirt from beneath the nail, the Maltese uttered a howl of sup- pressed anguish, and looked very wicked. I thought that a blade would have been gleaming across the table; but Lowther spoke up with a scornful, brow- beating look and tone, and said, "Hark'ee, you long, slab-sided Yankee; no more of those tricks in my pres- ence. "Sartin', sartin', capting; don't git mad; I ain't. Here, Dego, give us yer hand. I didn't set-out to hurt yer pritty skin; " and then turning again to' Lowther ^ '    '      i   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      151 and Murden, as if he was meditating a small mental esti- mate of their powers in the event of a struggle, he went on. "Wal, capting, you hadn't oughter talk too darned big at fust goin' off, fur yer may hev heern tell that we Yankees licked up you Britishers all tu smash last war; and 'twas all for crossin' with the redskins; and as fur my slab sides," - here the speaker's tongs of arms were laid on the table, while the bony claws curved inwards nervously, and the eyes in the fellow's head-dilated with the peculiar light of an opal,- " why, the long and the short on 'em is this 'ere: that if I get a fair hold on yu, I'll make yer back crack, and yer bootiful teeth chatter, and yer pritty peepers turn round and round in ther sockets --- " "Avast, there, lads!" broke in Murden, with an oath; c( stopper all sich talk for a full due. We've met here for a certain business in hand; and, mateys, let's steer wide of one another's throats. Tut, tilt, boys! never look so glum; there's plenty of work ready carved out to our hands, and no needs for breaking up in a row at this stage of the action. So, Jonathan, you hold your wind till Maltee tells us a word about the affair on the tother side of the'bay." "Yis, shipmet," again drawled out the conical, bullet- headed Yankee ; "but yu needn't trouble yer pipes by callin' me Jonathan agin, for my raal given name is El- nathan, - Elnathan- Spuke, - and our family doosn't admire to be called out of ther names more ner once    152    - TALES FOR THE 'MARINES. at a sittin' or else," he added, sum on yer might git more sarce to yer pudden than ushal." "4 Come, no offence meant, my hearty," rejoined Mur- den; " here's my fist. I don't bear much love for your countrymen, though; for t'other night some one of those jolly marines drove a bit of a slug of lead through my ear when I was a paddlin' away from that' infernal cor- vette; but still I don't bear malice; there." During the foregoing colloquy Lowther Controlled his temper, and with a furtive glance of no good towards the individual who had provoked his ire, he resumed his previous smoking indifference. Now, however, he began, in a quick, curt voice, as if his mind had been made up, and that nothing more need be said. ," Men, the trading house by whom I've been em- ployed has met with a bad run of luck lately, in losing a large cargo just outside the harbor, and all owing to some spy, who, it appears, must have given the most minute directions about the appearance and time the ves- sel was looked for. They are willing to give fifty mil- reis a head for every nigger rescued from the hands of the English, who landed them yesterday and to-day from the old Veloz, near Praya Grande. They were a soft pack of fools, any way, for trusting them out of sight of the frigate's guns ; but that's all the better forus. In my opinion, twenty men can easily accomplish the work, for the guard, as Maltee there says, is only six or eight marines and half a dozen blue jackets, with an officer or   Ii          TALES FOR THE MARINES.      1 two--a mere handful, and quite unsusp'cious of an attack. Again, lads, my employers have promised to furnish half the number required, and each of us can pick up a stray hand to lend a pull, either from the fish market gang or through Mother-Surf. The moneyis to be shared equally by all. Now you hear the terms, are we agreed?" "Si, si, Capitan, Sta-boa,' hissed the Maltese. "Yis, capting, I'm in for that ventur. We sheer and sheer alike; wal, that's handsome; but," he twanged out- with a cajoling, nasal whine, " yu wouldn't mind now, would ye, to give a feller a bit of scrip, in case any thin' should happin to yer, ye know, so that we might git the gilt from the Portingee owner. Not," he added, " that I partickerly keers, but my partner, 'Lias Nash, is tarnation cute in all his investments, for he's part of a  Gay Head Injun, and was edicated on the Florida reef, at the wrackin' business." As Lowther remained impassible to this agreeable allusion to worldly affairs, and the uncertainty of human life, '"By spikes!" rapped out the Yankee in a fit of generosity;  " wal, capting, it's a \-pesky risky matter; but you ken jist put 'Lias and me down fur a few chances." Then turning to the Maltese, while his fishy eyes danced at the prospect of the rich prize in view, he went on:   "And how many of them theer nasty darkeys du yu calkilate hev ben landed, and when air we to go to work?    154     TALES FOR THE MARINES. C Senhor Spukee, in tree day," replied the dingy scoun- drel, holding up his fingers.         . "That be blasted," exclaimed the other. "Why not to-morrow night? Them nigs is a dyin' off like sixty, and every one on 'em, the capting sez, is valooed atfifty milreis."     l "That can't be, Spuke," put in Lowther. "The ar- rangements can't possibly be made in less than forty- eight hours, for the owners want to run them a long way back in the Beira Mar; and just now, the slaves haven't got the strength to use their legs. But if you feel inclined to carry a hundred or so on your back for a score or two of leagues, why, I spose there'll be -no objections; but, meanwhile, keep yourself ready." The concluding portion of these remarks was deliv- ered with a sneer; but the long Yankee was too busy, apparently, at the, time, with his mirror and soap locks on his cone-built head, to heed the manner of the speaker. He only drawled out, as he stretched his long neck so as to get a side peep of the hair behind his ears, , Sartin, shipmet; if I happin to come across a likely nig, as is sound in the bones, and nobody keers for him, I rayther guess I'll freeze on to him for my own private spec."     - There was a pause of a few seconds, during which  period Lowther and the"Maltese continued to puff their 1 Havanas, while'Murden rested his aching head upon the table; when Mr. Elnathan Spuke, being seemingly   *                 "    TALES FOR THE MARINES.      155 the most communicative person- of the party, broke ground again. "Wal, I've heern that you chaps come from the Guinea Coast in the new Yankee curvet as got in last 6 wekc. How did yer like ther capting? I've know'd the old flint this many a year, and he once came nigh puttin' an eend to the hull Spuke family, I tell ye, jist for tryin' to run a few ankers of Hollands, some sugar and 'lasses from the West Inges, at Quidnet, on Nan- tucket. Consarn him, he hove round the lighthouse pint, and without askin' any questions, he let fly a twelve pounder, rammed as full as ever it could stick with grape shot, bullets, and things, right in among the entire kit and bile of our family. I was a boy in them times, but feyther was considerably riled about it, and went straight off and traded with the enemy, and talked some of lickin' Deacon Baxter for givin' information to the gun boat. I hain't had much!to do myself with Mad Jack, as they calls him to hum; but the folks sez he's an orful hard shell'd quohog to open, if yer don't git him at ther hinge. How did ye find the old critter, eh?" "Yes," grunted out- Murden, raising his head on his elbows, "we did take-the trip in the Junyatter; and a quick-heeled craft she is too, and the skipper's an out- and-out seaman, but the blasted old dog licked me ,for not goin' on the topsail yard to cut away the sail, when a gale was howling hard enough to hack the devil's horns off."   156     TALES FOR THE MARINES. "Du tell! by spikes! that's him," cachinnated the 'Yankee, with a sound between a bark-and a whistle, as if he hadn't heard so good a joke since his boyhood. i"And how did you carry sail, and git on?" he asked of the well-dressed villain facing him; " did the skipper gin ye tu a picture of a spread eagle over yer booti- ful shoulders, or a small drink of salt water, for a tonic, as I've heern he allers doos, fur fellers as is outer sperits?" The great bony giant preserved an admirable inno- cence of expression, during the foregoing interrogatories. As hi finished Lowther gave a start, while his cheeks were suffused with passion, and I expected to see his fist dashed into the interlocutor's face; but at the mo-  ment there was a noise in the passage, as if some heavy  weight was being dragged over the floor, and the party at the table held their peace. Presently there came a series of light taps of knuckles on a door, directly opposite to the one where I was  i posted, and simultaneously a sharp, cracked female voice exclaimed, 'c All right, boys! it's only Mag--open." -; The door was immediately unfastened by one of the  s men, and in walked the thin, shrewish woman, squinting ! most villanously over her inflamed, hawk-billed nose, whom I had seen in the dance-halls below. "Ilillo! what's that, Mag, you're tuggin' this:way?" i began Murden. "Why, ye lazy lubber, it's a treacherous cove has I   TALES -FOR THE MARINES.      157 hemployed to go with yon chaps on the hexpedition to the Praya; but I larned as 'ow he 'ad designs to peach, and. so I hokussed his drink, and wen he was laid out flat and axed for more, I jest tuk a funnel and hemptied three quart gin jugs down his throat, and the consekens is, he hasn't drawn a sober sigh since." "By thunder, the man's as dead as a hammer," said Lowther, without, however, "betraying  the slightest emotion. "Well, who the 'ell said he wasn't,'? retorted the irate hag; " but do you s'pose the fish gang will ever bewail sich a miserable swab as that? Here, beauty'!" she continued, to the long Mr. Spuke, " pitch this cask of gin down that hole in the wall, will yer? He cost me sixty vintems to fill him up." "With all the pleasure in life, mim," rejoined the Yankee, as he rose with great alacrity, while his mouth opened with a spasmodic grin, at the compliment paid to his good looks; and moving towards the wall, where was a close shutter, like. to a window, he unbolted, and swung it wide open. Heavens! what a smell filled the room, and penetrated even through the hole in the door lock to the passage where I was ensconced!   It was the same awful stench which had assailed me from the roof above. "Quick, my, hangel," cried Mag, "or we'll all be stuffocated." The long Yankee made but two   strides, and' taking "   158     TALES FOR THE MARINES. up the mass of flesh,--whether living or dead he seemed not to care,--as if it had been a feather, he raised the weight, and poisingiit at the proper elevation, he rung out, "Launch, ho!I ,and down went the body through the aperture.    I thought I heard a deep groan, as the carcass struck from side to side of the well, in its descent; but the shutter was immediately closed; and Spuke, turning to the woman, said, in his softest snarl, - "Now, missis, I guess you'd like to gin me a kiss for helpin' yer." "Kiss you, you lantern, wapperjawed, slush-dipped Yankee! I like your himpedence," retorted the virago, with her skinny arms akimbo, as she wheeled towards the door again. At this free-spoken repulse, Mr. Spuke regained his seat, growling, in an under twang, something about being "tarnation riled at the female ;" and then for a time he remained silent. "I'll tell ye, bullies, what I will do though," again resumed Mistress Surf; c"I'llstand treat for a toss of pure Geneva; so jest wait a bit till I finds the key, and I'll tramp round by the bar, and hand it by the trap." With that she scuffled out of the room, the door was locked behind her, and while the party of scoundrels sat expectantly at the board, I was overwhelmed with horror and indignation at the diabolical scene I had a moment before witnessed.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      159 Five minutes may have elapsed, when a grating noise was heard, near to where the reflector was nailed to the wall; and presently a broad panel was unclosed, and the vixen-eyed Mag, appeared, with some glasses and a square case bottle of Hollands. "Here, my beauty," said she, leaning her vile coun- tenance on her hands, her elbows resting on the lower part of the trap; "here, my hangel, have a toss, it's horful 'ot hup 'ere, and 'ollands his cooling to the 'ed ; it's a deal better than kissus." This address to the outraged Mr. Spuke appeared to have a happy effect in removing the wrath which had oppressed him. His face untwisted into a smile, and he deigned to take a full tumbler of the potation, fling- ing it down his huge mouth at one gulp, but observing,. at the same time, that he ," admired a pull of swanky an all-fired sight better than gin." At the conclusion of this ungracious speech, the tray, with its contents, was placed on the table. "- Harkee, lads," began Mag, as she sipped her own dram; 'there's been some   suspicious coves about the crimping houses and aguardiente shops all the evening, headed  by a drunken officer ; looking, they say, for desarters from one of the ships o' war in the harbor. Now, I'd adwise ye to slide for to-night, and not to wait for that flash lass, Loo," (here she squinted malevolently at Lowther,) , , but betake yeselves snug to bed and get /    160     TALES FOR THE MARINES. out o' harm's way, though the old boy himself couldn't ferret ye out up here." "Well, mim," drawled the bony Yankee, "I've a leetle business on hand, in the smuggling way, afore day- light; so I'll make tracks. Captin, and you, too, matey, I'll meet yer agin whenever yer agreed; come along, merlatty," and the- Maltese and he prepared for a start. "Not this direction, boys," said Mag, as she perceived them going towards the door by which 'she herself had entered; "t'other way, and go out by the Rua, up by the Arcos of the old aqueduct." The entrance behind which I was secreted was hastily unlocked, and the brace of worthies pushed through, giving me only time and space to avoid being detected. When I succeeded in regaining my position at the door, which had not been. bolted, after the departure of: the Maltese and Spuke, Mag had disappeared, and a woman had just entered the apartment, and thrown her- self upon a stool beside Lowther, at the table. She was rather below than .above the usual height of her sex. Her figure was full and swelling, and above her half-exposed bosom the throat rose round and beauti- ful, but burned by tropical suns. The mouth was small and firm; the teeth white as ivory; above were a pair of large blue eyes, denoting her Saxon origin, while a rich mass of brown hair was banded heavily around her brows, and knotted behind. There was nothing coarse in the expression of the face, but yet a cruel hardness   T ALES FOR THE MARINES.      161 about the eyes, and a firm, unfeminine print to the mouth and dilated nostril, which showed but too plainly that her experiences had not been suited to her sex or beauty. Her age might be about thirty. She was dressed entirely in white, save a brilliant flower, which shaded her finely developed bosom, and heightened the color of her complexion. A light, filmy gauze scarf, confined, by large filigree gold -pins, to the knot of her hair, fell over the back of her neck and partially con- cealed one shoulder. "William," said she, 'c it's rather unkind of you to ,ask me again to mingle with this crowd of beastly, dis-; gusting- wretches, now we've hardly been together a week. I flew to you from   the Serra Acima the mo- ment I knew you had arrived, but instead of finding a lap full of gold ounces to welcome me, I meet a poor fellow without a rag to his back, who in a jiffy has lost his vessel and cargo, and now expects me to take him again to my arms, and mark out another fortune for him. But," she added, as, with a flushed face- and kindling eye, she dashed her closed hand upon the board, "it's the last time, the very last. You're too avaricious, by half; and old Jose! whom you think I can -so easily cajole, tells me, moreover, that in place of) sticking to the  legitimate trade, which is profitable enough, as prices go with the ebony, you are forever taking too much ammunition   aboard, and he believes you wish to try your knife under the black flag." "* -    16B2    TALES FOR THE MARINES. Lowther gave a quick, cautionary'glance to Murden, and turning to the girl, with a soothing manner, began, "Well, but, dear Loo," when she checked him with,  K "Don't dear Loo me, Bill; I will speak out. What Jose says is true, and the Clara, which cost with her equipment nigh forty thousand milreis, is now cruising about the seas under the bloody cross of St. George. Indeed, owing to your devilish bad luck, you have run  but one fair cargo out of three, and half of the last has not been paid by that cunning rogue at St. Salvador."  (But he shall pay it,"' exclaimed her lover with a fearful imprecation, " and I'll square accounts with him, too, for the interest."  The woman, unmindful of this interruption, went on, with a fluency and precision of word and gesture that claimed the utmost attention. "And now, after striving to induce the old trader to fit you out again, he swore that- he'd do no such a thing, and if you wanted service, it must be begun and con-, ducted regular. But first, you must go to Buenos Ayres for horses, and then carry jerked beef to Cuba in the old polacre, and from there bring back a load of coun- . terfeit copper coin, stamped, by the Yankees. After that he'll perhaps try you and that drunken swab there," pointing with a contemptuous sneer to Murden,  "on another trip to the Barracoons." "Before I begin again to mount that ladder, I'll see the old pig-headed, yam-munching Portingee in hell,"   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       163 burst out Lowther, as he rose from the table, and hurled away the stool on which he was sitting. " Well, see him there, alnd go there with him," said the excited woman, springing to her feet; " but don't ever again try to coax me into an association with such a horrid wretch as this Mag Surf, and the brutal beasts of her crimping rummery, or may be, my hearty, you'll find that even Lob O'Neil won't stand by you! What," she went on, c" not content with a clear chance of filling your pockets, on a sure' voyage, but you must needs let loose the slave cargo at Praya -Grande, bringing the whole tribe of John Bull on our backs, and perhaps helping me to get a collar of silk rope twisted round my neck," - and as she uttered this, she clutched her beau- tiful throat like a vice, - ' like all the poor women, my companions in crime, who were strung up for murdering the crew of the convict ship. No, no! Bill; I'm fond of you, God knocws, but not utterly blind; and I'm talking for your real good; so take my advice, give up the business you have in hand, and close with old Jose's offer." The desperado regarded her for a moment with a look of sternness from beneath his frowning brows, and then, seizing her by the wrist, forced her again to her seat, and said, -- "Hear me a minute, Loo. I sent for" you from a pleasant retreat, no doubt, and I admit that it was be- cause I was poor and forsaken that I did so; but I felt   164     TALES FOR THE MARINES. that I could rely on your courage and devotion. H thought that, perhaps, a little excitement might not be displeasing to you, and that new scenes would serve to dispel the shadows which surround the skeleton feasts we sometimes sit down to with the phantoms of the past. I knew very well that old gripe Jose would be very shy of giving me another chance; but since our escape from the Yankee corvette, I have learned that i my first) employer, Perreira, was concerned in the cargo i captured last week, in the Veloz, by the man-of-war ! brig. I at once laid a plan to set the slaves free from-  the English; perhaps, if I succeed, he may fit me out ! anew; and then, Loo, should fortune befriend me,i   '  try a throw of the dice in some other part of the world, i where the gatne is good, and the climate less sweltering * than in these hot Brazils. It was -this which induced me to ask you to help me, as you only can, and for  a these reasons; but if you don't' care to give me your aid, why, I'll do the best I may alone; and if I succeed, you shall share with me, as of old."  These words had their effect upon the woman, who appeared to relent, particularly at her lover's concluding touch of generosity. "Well, Bill," she resumed, "I  haven't yet said I'd entirely forsake you; I only find fault with you for bringing me into this horrid den; for who knows at what moment this Mag Surf may betray me? and then - but what's that noise?" At this instant, the door against which I was leaning, not being propeirly   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      165     - fastened, gave way, and I came with a pitch right slap into the room. Before I had fairly recovered my senses, the panel of the adjoining partition was shoved aside, disclosing the inflamed countenance and frightful squint of Mag her- self, who exclaimed in a sharp, harsh key, c"Budge, boys! budge! There's a party from the corvette in the other house on your scent; they've been drinkin' with some of the liberty men from the English ships, and havin' lost a little disguised officer, who was with 'em, I heard a marine swear they would find him, and have you, dead or alive. So bolt." During this' pleasant warning,-the hag glanced her eyes around, and descrying me, screamed, ' Ay, there's the ill-favored brat who led, them- here. Smash him, Tom! Stop his luff, sharp." I had by this time recovered my wits, and seeing the peril of my position, without more ado, I assumed as bold a front as possible, and pulling a small dirk from my bosom, I said, "I've been sent for you by the cap- tain, and you must go immediately on board to get the reward for your crimes, you piratical villains.": "What,"  yelled the virago,." so you've been eves- droppin', have ye? Here, Tom, drop him from the paves," as she croaked at her joke, " for dead boys, as well as men, tell no tales. Come, out with the shutter, and plunge the sculpin into the sewer; he'll land on the gin guzzler, and the nigger Surf stabbed last night,    TALES FOR THE MARINES. and they'll all be gnawed up clean by the rats afore mornin'." During this scene the two men had sprung to their feet, while their female companion, passing rapidly behind me, had closed and bolted the door. O, ho!" said the ruffians Tom Murden, as 'he glared at me with the ferocity of a savage, "ye miserable shrimp of a reefer'! you've come to take us, have ye?"- and here he laughed derisively, - " to take us both on board, eh?"s "And you've heard a few of our yarns too, no doubt," chimed in his accomplice; " and the good captain sent ye, did he? And now, my chick, I've a message to send to that old sea tyrant," he added with a meaning emphasis, "when the devil claps his tormentors on you both, and ye meet together down below there, - for you may take your oath, that there's small hopes of seein' one another again above ground, -and that is, that Bill Lowther sliced your weasand, and gave you a toss equal to that, when he cut the flemish hawse for the old skipper, in return for stopping a pirate's game in the Clara; so say the last prayer your mammy taught you; and here, Tom," he ended, "cut his head off." "Hold, Bill," broke in the girl; " don't let us mur- der the little fellow: hand him over to Mag: she will keep him tight till the affair is over, on the other sicle of the bay."  / "What," grated the incensed hag at the panel. "Spare that imp, and have us all in the chain gang?   No, no! curse him! go on, Tom; be quick, and hold his head well over the ledge, so as not to spill his vine- gar blood on the tiles: quick, I say." I began to realize that my time had come; I saw how utterly useless it would be for me, a slight, though ac- tive boy of fifteen, to attempt to cope with the two pow- erful desperadoes before me, when all retreat was cut off, and no saving help at hand. I resolved, however, to make one effort, and before you could think, I sprang to the panel, and with my closed hand around the hilt of my dirk, I dashed it into the face of the virago; then with a shrill yell, which seemed unearthly in my wild, desperate energy, and which reverberated far and near, I screamed, "Kit! Kit! murder-! Come to me, Kit! Help!"I could hear at the time the sound of the wire bandolins and fiddles scraping in the easy contradanhas, to the shuffling feet from the rooms below, while above all arose the hum and noise of the sailors, and the chink- ing of glasses used in their potations. Mag gave a frightful ejaculation, as the blow staggered her; but re- covering herself speedily, she slammed to the panel, which caught my miserable little bit of a navy dirk, and snapped it off within an inch of the handle. But the opening was not entirely closed, and still my voice found its way in piercing and repeated yells for Kit and succor. The table, which was some ten feet long, fortunately chanced to be between the men and my position; and at  TALES FOR THE MARINES.  the outset of my assault upon Mag Surf, one of the ruffians flung with immense force a heavy wooden stool at my head, which just passed over, but smashed out the panel again, and knocked over the virago behind it. The reflecting lamp upon the wall was also detached, and fell to the floor by the same missile. In the dark- I ness which followed, I gave another series of desperate screams for aid, and hearing my pursuers groping their way in the dark, I shifted my ground, and made a dive under the table. ' In performing this feat, I came full tilt into the comely person of Miss Loo O'Neil; but can- noning off from her knees, I brought up with a stunning cpck against a leg of the table. "What a slippery little eel it is!" she said. "Loo," exclaimed Lowther, " stand clear for a run, and see that side door ready; this young viper's lungs will wake up all Rio; and strike a light, Tom, while I settle him; he's lost his toasting iron, so there's no risk in catching hold ,of him.'" At that moment a vigorous grasp was laid upontmy ankle, and the next, I was dragged roughly from my retreat. "Never mind the light, Bill; I've got the sprat, sure; and here -"As he muttered these ominous words, with a knife held between his clinched teeth, he seized me by the neck with one hand; but as he let go my heels with the other, to have a fair slash at me with the weapon, I gave a sudden wriggle, and feeling his thumb    TALES FOR THE-MARINES.    169   enter my mouth to the first joint, I gave him a nip With an eye tooth, that would have reflected credit upon the beak of an albatross. I felt the knuckle and bone crunch like a mouthful of becaficos; at the same time, with a burst of pain, he loosened his hold, and I again scrambled under the table. In the interval, I could hear the hoarse murmur of voices at some distance, mingled with the curses and screams of vile Mag Surf; but above all, I caught the sound from the stentorian lungs of old Dolphin. "This way, my hearties! out of the way, Mammy Aguardiente, or, moder ob heben - " Here there came a crash, as if some one had been pitched down a flight of stairs; but still the noise of feet and voices rapidly approached. "Hark!"I heard Morris say in his peculiar treble; whereupon I yelled and yelled again. ( This way, lads; Kit, dear Kit, come to me." I saw a gleam of light flash along the corridor, through a chink of the panel,- and at the same time I was again seized and jerked from the floor. On this occasion, I felt two strong hands around my ankles; I was lifted high up, when, with a sickening swing, I was whirled against a casemate; a quick succession of sharp thrusts were dealt me from the steel at random, and then all consciousness forsook me. Here Fred became somewhat excited, and his uncle concluded to defer) the sequel of his adventures for :another evening.   CHAPTER VI. WHEN I returned to consciousness, it was in that in- distinct way which I presume is ever the case where one recovers reason after a fever or other violent malady. I found myself lying on my back, on a low, reedlike, iron bedstead; gauze mosquito nets were drawn on three sides of the couch, and the only light shed into the little alcove where I lay was from a pair of broad- leaved doors, which opened into a large saloon beyond. Above my head, dangling from .the gilt rod which upheld the curtains, fell a fringe of dry palm leaves, stitched together in shape of a huge fan. To the lower part was attached a bit of cord, which every now and then caused the plaited leaves to vibrate gently. How this operation was performed puzzled me a good deal, for it seemed to me to be the effect of some mys- terious agency, and I had not the, sense to find a solu- tion of the wonder. I remember that I tried with all the little mental strength I had to divine the cause, until at last, after closing my eyes, and sagely reflect- ing during a brief doze, I bethought me of following the droop of the cord to, its other end. Again I opened my eyes, and this time they rested (170)   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       171 upon a little ebony wench, seated on a chair at the foot of the bed. Her face shone like satin, when the shades of light crossed it, as she slowly nodded from side to side; then, recovering herself with a start, she would give the palm leaves a jerk, and drop off to repose again. She was dressed in a scrupulously clean brown linen frock, cut rather high about the heels, so that, as she sat with her feet on the round of the chair, she exposed more of her legs to view, than might be considered altogether proper in a pleasant circle of friends like the present. I continued gazing at her with incredible anxiety, fearing, in my flimsy state of mind, that she might be one of a cochin-china breed of girls, like the long-legged shang- 'hai fowls. So much did this idea take possession ofine, that, as I continued to regard her slender whalebone limbs "Come, Master Harry, ' that will do with the band,' as you navy men say; we don't wish to listen to any physiological lectures about the women." Why not? said the Lieutenant, rather testily-why not, may I ask, ma'am? turning to the charming matron beside him. Don't you permit the architect to judge from the base of a column what lhas been the shaft, the capital, the frieze, the architrave, in short, the entire structure?'and why may not an amateur student of the human fabric seek for knowledge under similar rules? But, said the Lieutenant, regaining his good humor, and bowing to his fair auditors, I shall drop a petticoat over   172     TALES FOR THE MARINES.    : these subjects for the future, merely adding, by way of apology, that my early rudiments of propriety were not acquired in the strict school of the excellent St. Francis of Sales, whose morals were so severe that he was never known, even in the privacy of his closet,'to indulge in the innocent recreation of crossing his legs - a tradition which has walked down to us from some Boswell of those days, who admits that he kept a close watch upon the saint through the keyhole. Moreover, a highly vir- tuous and refined missionary lady told me, in Polynesia, that were the natives of those islands to go clothed, she should feel shocked; for the same reason, perhaps, that at the " funeral of Junia, the wife of Cassius, and sister of Brutus, the statues of all the great persons connected with her family by blood or alliance were carried in pro-  cession, except those of her brother and husband." This deficiency struck- the people more than any part of the show, as would the attiring of innocent savages, who, like our first parents, have been accustomed- to stalk about in all their native majesty, in vines or flax, as best may have suited them.     X The Lieutenant paused, and finding no voice raised to dispute the admirable sentiments he had uttered, took up the thread of his yarn where he had been inter- rupted. At last, during a moment of wakefulness, as my dingy attendant raised her head, she caught my eyes full upon her; and having by that time fully decided that she   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      173 was a spook of the chicken tribe, and about to do me bodily injury, I made an attempt to exorcise her by-mur- muring, "Shoo, biddy!"B"Ja quop hinnoo!" she ex- claimed, in a soft voice, as she approached the bed; whereupon I dropped the heavy lids over my eyes, thinking that they would immediately be pecked out. But the ebony one had apparently no such designs, for presently I felt a gentle hand under my pillow, a cocoa nut shell was placed to my lips, and a few drops of cool lemonade trickled gratefully down my throat. " Bebac juka mais, - Drink more, dear, - she said, in her con- fused dialect; and hearing and feeling that she was no longer a cochin-china, but a good little black bantam, I again opened my eyes, and absolutely winked at her. "I believe it," said one of the damsels, sotto voce; but without heeding the sarcasm, the narrator went on: Upon this my watchful little nurse drew back, surprised, no doubt, at the liberty, and with a sound like hushing an infant to sleep, she closed the curtains, and resuming her seat, recommenced swinging the fan with great reg- ularity. The very monotony of the waving palms above my head sent me to sleep once more. When I woke again, the clear treble of a piano came sweetly into the alcove where I lay, mingled with the sea breeze, whose breath was laden with the perfume of lemons and pines, while a low, rich contralto voice trilled forth the follow- ing Castilian couplets: - 15 *   174       TALES FOR THE MARINES. I. "Si de tu hermosura quieres Una copia con mil gracias; Escucha, porque pretendo El pintarla. II. "Es tu frente toda nieve, Y el alabastro batallas Offreci6 al amor, haziendo En ella vaya." * "Brava , Antonietta! brava, queridita!"    exclaimed ,a voice in Spanish; " but stop    now, for here is Mary with her lover, who sang that little seguidilla last night; and there's the boat, too, with the surgeon, and that queer, blunt old captain of the corvette, coming as usual to see how  the poor little reefer is; so come, amiga, let's go and have a peep at him first, and find out if the poor young soul is ever coming to his senses again." Presently there came the tripping of light feet over the polished floor, softly my curtains were parted, and I. "List while the thousand charms I sing Which round thee such enchantment fling, That even Love has, plumed his wing To seek thy bower II. "Thy neck, that shames the mountain snow, Thy lip, that mocks the peaches' glow, - Bid Cupidis self a captive bow Beneath thy power."   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      175 through my half-closed eyelids I beheld a comely matron and a tall, elegant woman bending over me with a sad expression in their gaze. Beyond, peeping over their shoulders, a sweet oval face presented itself, with large, almond-shaped, dark liquid eyes, fringed with lashes like a shade, while a mouth was half open with excitement, disclosing a double row of head rails that no ivory, or pearls, or alabaster ever equalled in their rosy balconies. "Mas cerca,' said the tall lady, " come nearer and look what a change in this poor boy since the night you saw him at the Russian minister's." In a moment the girl came close to the bedside, a/nd I felt with a thrill of pleasure -the dewy, cool cushions of a little hand and fingers, which were timidly passed over my forehead. Ah, what a comfort, I thought, it was to be slightly indisposed, for I had not then recalled the dreadful scenes I had gone through. Again the soft little hand smoothed the sheet upon my breast, and wan- dered with a touch of down over my cheeks, murmuring the while, "Pobrecito, que disgracia motar el marmozeto!  -What a shame to kill such a diminutive little monkey! Lord! I was on the point, just before this speech was uttered, of opening my eyes and entering into a discursive conversation, so as to find out, if possible, what all the syfmpathy meant, and whether the dark- eyed beauty, with the pouting mouth, would like to get married at half an hour's notice; but the allusion to   176     TALES. FOR THE MARINES. those little animals who hop about the trees and attend street organs in their peripatetic journeys quite discon- certed me, and I remained silent. The ladies, after a few words of inquiry addressed to my ebony attendant, softly drew the curtains once more, and left me to contemplate the palm leaves. My ears, however, were still open,; and presently I heard the sound of men's footsteps. There was an exchange of salutations, a light badinage about balls, picnics and boatings, during'which' I recognized the sound of old Percy's voice.   i "Well, madam, how is your little invalid to-day?" O0 sir, you must ask the doctor, though to me he seems easier, and the fever has almost left him." C"Thank God for that," said old Jack, heartily; "we'll set him on his pins again, I hope, although how he has ever survived those stabs and bruises is a mystery to me. Ladies, with your permission, the surgeon and I will take a look at him."  At this moment I perceived a dark shadow steal into the entrance of the alcove where I lay, and turning my glance in that direction, I saw the great broad shoulders of Kit Dolphin, and his honest face above, moving on tiptoe towards my couch, while the doctor began in whispers with, "Well, old man, how did your patient pass the night?"' "s Bery good indeed, sir; never mumbled a syllabel since de' moon rose at midnight, and den he brok out   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      1" into a perfuse prispiration, and has slept like a babby ever since." "Is that you, uncle Kit?"I said, in an audible whisper. "De Lord! if de child isn't wide awake and a'most well! Bress Heben for dat," sighed forth the faithful negro, as he put his huge hands between the muslin curtains, while the large tears fell from his eyes upon my hand, resting on the bed clothes. "Yes, Kit, I'm all right, only a trifle weak here in the side and head, where I tumbled out of my hammock last night." "Hush!" said the surgeon and   captain, as they drew aside the mosquito nets and joined old Dolphin; "don't talk, my boy; let me feel your pulse. Ah, doing bravely; now take a few drops of this, shut your eyes, and try a nap." The potion soon had its effect, and in another attempt to attract the attention of the little wench who had charge of the fan, I dropped off into sound sleep. I need not tire your patience by recounting how for days and days I lay on my narrow couch, with my mind trembling on the brink of recollection, while the past  was a dreamy waste, or how, at last, the tragic events which had nearly proved fatal to me flashed with all their fierce reality upon me; how I was fed and cared for with the tenderness of a mother for her child; how the officers came and said pleasant things, bringing little  ' ,   O s O   TALES FOR THE MARINES. presents, and chatting at my couch, when I was able to converse; how the lovely little rose bud, who likened me to the monkey, would bring her guitar, and warble the heart-touching ballads of Andalusia; how I lay within the alcove, and watched the tiny feet moving about in waltz or montonero, every evening, around the broad saloon; and how, in the mornings, too, I could see the handsome English captain making love to the tall angel who was always so kind to me. But I must skip over these scenes, tinged with physical suffering and pain as they were, when the surgeons had dressed and bandaged my wounds; but I was a boy then, full of elastic hopes and bright visions for the future; and being a midshipman, withal, I was one of the tough pine knot species, and very hard to kill, I can tell you. Now that my mind was perfectly clear with regard to the occurrences I had witnessed at the crimping ren- dezvous, I related the events in pretty much the same words that I have to you. Old Percy never seemed to breathe- during the whole recital; but when I got through, and the conviction forced itself upon him that the captain and mate of the piratical brig were the identical sailors who had shipped at St. Thomas, and deserted from the Juniata in Rio, his large gray eyes fairly emitted sparks of fire, and he said, "Never mind, Harry; the third trick shall be ours." Then old Kit began, and at intervals told me what had transpired after I had been in the clutches of Low-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       179 ther, in the den at Surf's. Both he and Morris/had- become alarmed at my prolonged absence, and, from  a few words the latter overheard Mag say to her }Eebrew husband in the tap, he felt a suspicion that the desert- ers were somewhere concealed in the building. Accord- ingly, they made friends with a party of stout English sailors who were on liberty from one of the men-of-war in the harbor; and while about to commence a search in the adjacent houses, Kit, who was a little in advance, heard my ringing screams for help.    With a-whole pack of furious sailors at his back, they dashed from room to room, until they descried a ray of light be- tween the cracks of a- concealed passage.  To stave through this, and spring up a long flight of stone stairs, was the work of a moment; when my cries again were heard. The enraged Mag having attempted to arrest their farther progress, Kit gave her-a pitch over his head, and she never brought up until she lay senseless, with a broken jaw, at the foot of the stairs. Then, with his companions carrying lighted tallow links, they leaped :through the panel. Lowther had me by one leg, watching a chance to deal a final thrust, at the shutter of the awful well, while the blood was stream- ing from the wounds he had already given me.  s- Heb- en bress you, child," said the faithful black; and speak- ing in the third person, , dis ole nigger grappled him wid dese paws, while Pete Morris jus' druv his catty- cornered bagnet trough and trough dat feller Murden's O7            .^   180     -TALES FOR THE MARINES. jaws, when de oder let goes you, and den I was jus' in -de werry nick ob time to save you from fallin' down de hole; and so dem pair of cussed bagabones shot like winky trough de side door.  Some ob de boys guv chase; but dere war oder strong doors, wid de latches down, and bolted hard, and dey could get no furder. You wos a sop of blood, Massa Harry, and dese ole eyes war hot as coal ob fire, to tink ob de tale Kit was p'rhaps to tell your granfader -and modder; but now, bress God! de surgeon say you 'prove mighty soon, and pretty ladies make so werry nice nurse!" This was the gist of brave Christopher's discourse, as he sat beside me, near the head of the couch, while his eyes sparkled with feeling; and, notwithstanding the singular expression given to his fine, copper-colored skin by the mark of the bursting fuse, I thought him the most beautiful creature, not excepting the little An- tonietta, whom I had ever seen; for Kit had as warm a heart, and a soul as white, and perhaps whiter than many of his white-skinned fellows. O, yes, dear uncle Kit! you saved my life; the heart and hand are yours; and while I have a shot in the locker-- Fred! hastily exclaimed the Lieutenant, while a flush of feeling overspread his face, remember that I never proved recreant to my oath; acnd I hope that you, too, may never forsake the tried friend, be he black, blue, white---  "Or gray," quietly suggested one of the audience.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      181 I never heard of a gray man, except about the head, even in my travels, you witch! retorted the Lieutenant; though -I believe Lord Monboddo speaks of them, to- gether with other appendages, in the -court-circles of Timbuctoo. But as I have not yet visited those regions -winking jocosely around did the narrator - and as Kit will have a growl in the morning should the oysters be over-roasted, suppose we say vamonos, senoras, with our adventures. The handsome English captain was present during my account of the conversation in the den at Rio, and the plan matured there for the rescue of the slave cargo;  and I learned from him that their design had been car- ried into execution. This would have been prevented, but for the accident which had happened to me. The frigate's guard had been surprised, gagged, beaten, bound : hand and foot, and some of them carried a considerable distance up the hills, where they were unceremoniously thrown among the dense groves of the coffee plantations, and would inevitably have starved to death, had not they been accidentally discovered and fortunately released. But what made the matter worse, the vessel had not been condemned, and even the slaves--the' actual proofs -were wanting to establish the claim of the captors; and the captain of the frigate who had them in charge was made to bearthe brunt of his humanity to-the tune of many thousands of pounds. "I don't care for being ruined," he exclaimed; , but 16   182     TALES' FOR THE MARINES. just to fancy the impudence of that smooth-spoke scoundrel, at the ' White Jacket' ball in Praya Grande who claimed me as a shipmate, under the name of Bo Voltigeur, in the old, Stag,' and dwelt' upon so man minute reminiscences of our early friendship, that, fc the life of me, I could not help admitting that I di( recollect him'perfectly well; although may the devi admire me if I remembered ever to have seen hin before. However, we soon became as thick as pick pockets, and, at my earnest solicitation, he kindly con sented to present me to the daughter of a rich diamon merchant of his acquaintance- a plump, blue-eye charmer, with most winning manners, who seemed t understand all my execrable broken jumble of hal: Saxon and Portuguese, and, while I think of it, pumpe me dry with regard to the slave cargo, their position how they were confined, and, in short, all about the business. Well, towards two in the morning, after  had become deplorably fascinated with this azure-eyec siren, and when engaged to dance with her a Pstately minuet, she left me a moment, to smooth her hair, a' she expressed it, in one of the dressing rooms, an( never came back. You may imagine what a study for an artist I presented, standing in the middle of that vast ball room, vis-a-vis with a jeweller's fat wife, t( whom my dashing shipmate of the old ' Stag' had beer paying devoted attention. Since, however, there were not less than a thousand people moving about the hall   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       183 and colonnades, I very naturally surmised that my charming partner had become lost in the human laby- rinth, and accordingly instituted a search, which occu- pied me until daylight. In this I was quite unsuccess-, ful; but as she and my old shipmate had very kindly consented to breakfast with me on board the frigate at ten, I took my own departure, to make,some slight prep- arations for so agreeable company. "On board I went, ordered the steward to prepare every thing, from a shrimp to an alligator pear, and leaving an invitation for the first lieutenant to partake of the feast, I turned in for an hour's sleep. A   Ah!" continued the handsome captain; i" and how long do you suppose I waited breakfast?  Why, till nearly two o'clock in the afternoon ; when the boat which had been sent to Praya Grande with the dinner for the guard returned, and reported that the entire cargo of slaves, marines, sailors, and officers had been spirited off to parts unknown." "Perhaps they will all come back under the wing of that blue-eyed daughter of the diamond merchant," demurely remarked the tall angel who had been atten- tively listening to the foregoing observations, while lean- ing on the entrance to my little alcove. The handsome sailor absolutely blushed, as he re- plied, (c Yes, Miss Mary; when Don Sebastian returns to his dominions, buy not, I fear, before." Prompt and energetic measures had been resorted to, itoA   184     TALES FOR THE MARINES. by the English authorities, to recover the lost property, and lay the perpetrators of the outrage by the heels; but there was never a single one of the slaves found. The only information gleaned relative to the persons who planned the business was from a French savant, who had bivouacked with a couple of men and a woman, on the banks of the Rio Parahyba, who answered to the description of Lowther, his fair sweetheart, and Murden. The Frenchman further stated, that after leaving this pleasant coterie, he missed a choice packet of two carat brilliants, and some valuable specimens of gold, which he had collected at great cost and trouble at the Minas Noyas, far in the interior. There were notes, as a diplomatic matter of course, between the two governments, and great grief was ex- pressed by the Brazilian regent. It was even thought by credulous individuals that the prime minister shed tears on more than one occasion, on account of the melancholy bereavement; but after a renewal of assurances of dis- tinguished consideration, one to another, the negotiation terminated. The ostensible owners of the Veloz, however, put in a claim for a trifle of seven thousand pounds, for the detention and loss they had sustained in transporting the ,C colored emigrants to Brazil; but this demand I sin- cerely trust the English captain has allowed to stand - unpaid to this day. With regard to Mag Surf, in consequence of the-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      185 representations I had made, a file of soldierswere sent to seize her; but an officer who attended them was met by the Hebrew proprietor of the establishment, who, with contused eyes and bruised limbs, swore piteously that the ungrateful hag had levanted with a secret hoard of treasure, which he had carefully laid by to meet the wants of his declining years; and that, after smashing a gin jug - her favorite missile - over his head, he had received no further tidings of her. It may have been a month that I went on convales- cing, cared for by the kind friends to whose house I had been carried. It was a pretty villa, perched on the brink of one of the projecting ridges, like a transverse bridge of rocks, which separated Botofogo from the sea, while the majestic peak of the Gabia, with the declining sun, threw its giant lines of shade well nigh across the harbor. The land wind, with the early day, stole down the deeply-riven gorges of the mountains at our back, with a .cool, murmuring freshness, and the sea breezes, when the sun was high in the heavens, would sweep in refreshing gusts from away over the broad, blue ocean, and  play a pleasant lullaby to our noontide siesta. There was a close little grove of limes and tropical foliage be- neath the drawing room windows, and the perfume of green and golden fruit came gratefully upon the air, un- til the scorching rays of the sun drank it up. The hot season, however, was at hand; the fleecy cap of clouds hung around the summit of the Sugar Loaf, 16 0   186     TALES FOR THE MARINES. -the barometer of the bay,- and the rainy months were fast approaching. I was still too feeble to be taken on shipboard, and since the corvette was or- dered to sail on a cruise to the Falkland Islands, it was decided that I should accompany the family with whom I was domesticated to a small coffee estate on a spur of the Esmeraldas, near the province of San Paulo. Old Percy came one morning, with' the surgeon, to take leave of me. They came provided with a light, swinging cot, in which I was to be slung from a pole, on the journey across the serras, which had been nicely made with pockets, and every thoughtful convenience, by the sailmakers of the ship. Then the doctor unfolded a gallant array of vials, containing liquors of every hue, little packets of powders, and potions, and bandages; all snugly stowed in what Kit called a small (" shotecary pop" of a little medicine chest. In addition to these necessaries, they both gave me the most minute directions about my conduct, moral and physical, which, I need not tell you, I very scrupulously followed. I must admit, however, that f-was extremely sorry to part with the kind old captain and surgeon; but it was a trifle compared to the blow I felt at being separated from my faithful Kit. Nothing could reconcile me to that trial until I was told that the coquettish little bru- nette, Ahtonietta, was to join our party, she having re- cently arrived at Rio from school in England, and was waiting for a good opportunity of rejoining her parents in Buenos Ayres.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      187 I "Good by, my boy," said old Jack, as he warmly pressed my hand. "Do every thing these kind ladies bid you, and when you get back to the corvette again, you shall see how the land lies from the topsail yard."  "Bress you, child," spurted out Christopher, with an attempt at a cheerful chuckle, as he put his brawny arms gently around me with the tenderness of a kitten. " Say your prayers ebery night, and mind you don't say I too sweet tings to dat little brown-gal. O, so pritty! wid dem big eyes, sparkle so wid lub. De fac is, bes keep clar ob de fuscinations ob de entire sec. Lib and die old bach'ler, like uncle Kit." Then, with a polite genuflection to the whole -assem- bly, and the present of a gorgeously-printed kerchief for the satin-skinned young nurse who had attended me dur- ing the fever, he jumped down the steep pathway to the beach. A few moments later the white-headed old command- er raised his cap in salutation, as he took the yoke ropes. Dolphin was at his seat on the after thawt, and with an upward toss of his hand, - the sailor's parting, - he gave a signal to the boat's crew. The long blades fell with a simultaneous splash upon the water, and then, with a regular movement to catch the stroke, the oars dipped together 'in the limpid surface of the cove, the boat shot like a spear around the rocky point, and leav- ing only the bubbling eddies in her wake, was hidden from view. An hour later the Juniata was dressed in a / ;             -.    IOn,     TALES FiOR T1ll MAit MU2iNao full suit of snow-white canvas toggery. With a stiff, sea breeze she tacked close in shore, stretched away to Santa Cruz, and then working swiftly through the nar- row funnel of the bay, she passed Raza and Round Islands, and held her wind to the southward. That evening I was sitting sadly enough within the dusky shadows of one of the deep, veranda-like embra- sures of the saloon, thinking of the checkered life that even my own brief boyhood had seen, and watching the bright planets and stars, as they one by one grew pale and dim before the silvery light of the round, demure moon, as she rose so coyly above the eastern heights, while the measured "s shale " of the waves lipped, with a low, harmonious sound, upon the shingly beach, and the mimic breakers rippled musically upon the ledge. be- neath my window, and all soothed me with their beauty and cadence. Presently the water of the quiet nook was disturbed by a light gig which skimmed buoyantly towards the landing. -c Toss! I heard an order given in a low tone ; the oars rose at the next stroke, a slight rattle followed as they were laid together in the boat, and the gig glided silently to the smooth, rocky landing. "Ah, ha!" thought I; "here comes the handsome officer; and he sails, too, on the morrow, for merry England; but he has looked any thing- but merry himself of late." Then I wondered what had become   :    oTALES FOR THE MARIES.       189 of my tall angel, Mary, during the afternoon, but be- thought me that she had been serious and penserosa all the day. I did not leave my place, however; and by and by I saw the glitter of a pair of swabs upon the shoulders , of a navy coat appear upon the retired esplanade, and a moment after there emerged a fluttering white dress from the portico, and joining the blue coat, both slowly wan- dered on beneath the grove. Attentively I watched the pair as they paced for a long time within the shade of the motionless foliage, now lost to my sight as they went deeper into the wood, but, anon emerging from the masks of the silent trunks of the palms and cassias, which seemed of themselves to be listening to the sweet whis- perings of the lovers protected by their leafy arms. At length the couple paused at the little circular space paved with white pebbles near to the tank, andbwhile the water from the pygmy cane aqueduct fell drop by drop, with a liquid sound, into the pool, I caught a few detached sentences, only broken by low, faint sobs. "I shall be constant, Philip; your fate is mine." It struck me, in the dim light, there was a darker and broader belt around my tall .angel's waist than the rose-colored ribbon usually there, and one of the epau- lets on the navy coat was altogether obscured by a gracefully-shaped head and floods of chestnut tresses; but I attributed both phenomena to natural causes. There was another succession of suffocating sobs, and   TALES FOR THE MARINES. then a rapid torrent of eloquent oaths, ending with, "Ma- ry, love, my very soul will be with you during our sep- aration, and, come what may, I shall claim you for my wife before three years have gone by." " Dearest Philip." There was yet another dark blue belt clasped around the tall angel's white frock, the gleaming bullion was no longer obscured, but as he kneeled at her feet, she inclined her beautiful head, and pressed her lips to his forehead. " Heaven protect you, Philip," she murmured, as if her warm heart was breaking, while a little shower of liquid emeralds fell from amid the glossy curls upon the up- turned face, the baptism of their troth; and " What, green tears, Master Harry! " inquired Fred's grandmother. Yes, ma'am, she was an Irish girl. The next in- stant the epaulets sprang with a bound down the rocky path; the gig pushed off, and when nothing was visible but the silver line of sparkling ripples which marked her course on the calm water of the cove, both maid and lover had vanished from my sight. Fred, said the Lieutenant, as he removed the cigar from its natural resting-place, and carefully rerolled the outer skin, you wouldn't perhaps believe it, but I've been in love several times myself, in the course of the past thirty years, and what is remarkable, never had the least inclination to get spliced until " Tell that to the marines," exclaimed the youthful natron standing before the fire, as she held up the   191   TALES FOR THE MARINES.   sweetest little dumpling of an admiral in diaper ever seen, and at the same time took-the liberty of plunging the soft, cooing little "cherrybub," as Kit called him, close to the Lieutenant's face, where he made a playful clutch at that gentleman's whiskers, causing excruciating pain and mental anguish to the Lieutenant in thus being interrupted in an exciting incident of his narrative. He resumed, however, with, Well, ladies, it was tmy luck to dance at the wedding of that handsome British- er; and as Cupid's my judge, he is the author of a nu- merous progeny, and fell afterwards in a duello, for be- ing too attentive to another man's wife. The following day, before Aurora had "raised her head Above the waves, and left her watery bed," we had been stirring an hour; and while the palms began to crackle in the first current of the land wind, the villa was all in commotion, and mIules ready capari- soned. at the gates. We made eight in the party -  three ladies, the padron, his son, the comprador of the plantation, a man with a double barrelled gun, and least of all, myself. I don't include the negro attendants or the small jackass upon which my little ebony wench was perched, for in Brazil neither are regarded as human beings. My cot had been sent forward with the spare beasts the night previ- ous, and at the outset I was placed on a large, soft, com-   TALES FOR THE MARINES. fortable, chair-like side saddle, on a fat, sedate .old mule, who ambled evenly over the ground, with the grace and soberness of a bishop. When all was ready, the ladies, in brown linen rig and sun bonnets, comfortably stowed on their beasts, the pa- dron put his undressed skin boots into the stirrup of his barb, and swinging his portly bulk into the saddle, and his enormous wide-brimmed hat around his head, shouted " A-congo! " as a signal for the blacks to start. Away they moved at a round trot, with earthen cala- bashes, or jars, on their heads, keeping time during the journey with a low, monotonous chant, interspersed with, at long intervals, a detached shriek. Our part of the procession then fell into line astern of the padron, while the man with the fowling piece closed up the rear. Leaving the picturesque shores of the bay, and losing sight of the magnificent panorama, we turned for a few miles Jinto the main road by the royal gardens, when branching off over the spurs of the radiating hills, on the sea side of the mountain flanks, we continued on, in the cool freshness of the morning, at a good round pace. Towards ten o'clock the sun became too powerful to proceed with comfort, and a halt was cried, on a little grassy bit of table land, which seemed to have been chis- elled from the brow of a ridge. -There, beneath the deep shade of the noble timber and its trembling leaves, the breakfast was spread upon a carpeting of banana leaves, and we made our meal. I don't know why it was, but we   were all triste and taciturn. I had nothing in particular to dash my own spirits, for I was rapidly gaining health and strength, besides being associated with as charming a trio of ladies (each in her peculiar vocation) as ever broke bread; and the padron was one of the jolliest gentlemen, turned of fifty, you would desire, when thirsty, to drink with; but yet there was some spell which had come over us all. The matron was thought- ful, and papa a shade serious, while the little Spanish brunette was in a brown pout, and my tall angel left her cold chicken untasted, sipped a thimble full of chocolate, and allowed her lovely eyes to wander inquisitively out upon the distant ocean, where here and there some list- less bark showed her white sails upon the calm sea. The negroes, however, were not infected with the mental gloom of their superiors. They were in ecstasies of spirits, seated a score or two of yards below us, on the verdant knoll, chattering, jabbering, laughing, and sucking their smashed-yam-bedabbled fingers, with all the enjoyment in the world. Finding that even Antonietta wouldn't open her pretty mouth, nor the padron either, save to insert a fresh cigar, I laid me down in my cot, which had been suspended between the trees, and was soon siestaing away like a dormouse. It was evening before I was aroused from slumber, and then by the jolly padron, who, unclosing the cur- tains at the ridgepole of the cot, looked in upon -me,   17 1V4     TALES FOR THE MARINEB. and shouted, "Hillo! you wee villain, are you never going to wake? Why, we are near old Joao Porgallos's, where we pass the night." I then discovered that, without disturbing my repose, the careful blacks had raised me on their-shoulders, when the hour came for moving, and with the cool flutter of the sea breeze, and the gentle vibrations of the couch, I had: been borne a long way up the sides of the mountains, and rocked the sounder to sleep by the motion. We had now gained a broad, sloping gorge, clothed with the richest and most luxuriant vegetation. The shades of the departing sun fell in transverse lines across the valley, the, atmosphere had become sensibly cooler, the flocks of: paroquets were twittering their vesper hymns. As I mounted my trusty mule, and edged my way to my place in the cavalcade, the ladies were carolling forth airs from the newest operas, the padron was pealing out a stave which made the sur- rounding hills echo with good humor, and we all ap- peared, as'indeed we were, as blithe and free from care as crickets. An hour later, we crossed a broad belt of the Serra, and descending a mile on the other side, descried a little cluster of red-washed buildings; a bit of a spire from a chapel rose in the midst, with gardens, and coffee and banana trees around.- Presently a multitude of dogs barked melodiously, while the little bell of the chapel tinkled a chorus, and trotting through a wide gateway,    z   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       195 we dismounted within the walls of the habitation of Dom Joao Porgalloi. We were at once surrounded by a crowd of servants and pleasant people, in huge straw hats, witl Dom Joao at their head. The dom looked a Portuguese prototype of an English Bill. He had a full face, with a roly- poly figure, fat, short, little pillows of hands, and a good- humored appearance all round. He did nothing but- take off and \put on his palm leaf sombrero for twenty minutes after our arrival; bowing repeatedly, and as gracefully the while, as the solid corporation enclosed within his comfortable white jacket and loose trousers would admit; but he never spoke a word, though he laughed continually. I noticed him at intervals ex- changing winks with the padron, and secretly telegraph- ing, with a crook to his little finger, and his mouth open like a young robin: but again he would return to his courteous salutations, and bow and smile repeatedly to us all, as before.                 --L There was a court yard in front of the main build- ing, where stood the little chapel, with its iron grille of a door worked in form of a cross, with the letters I. H. S. above and the year below. Within we could see tall gilt candlesticks, standing behind the altar, and queer little votive offerings, strung around the image of the virgin; while just inside the gateway, fastened against-the rude wall, was a polished bowl for holy water, scooped out of a beautiful piece of Brazil mahogany,   196     TALES FOR THE MARINES. A long line of slaves, with each a broad, fla basket of coffee in the pod on their heads, were waiting in turn to exhibit to the overseers the result of their la- bors; which, after being measured and noted, was either again to be taken to dry, on the flat-rimmed rocks on the hill sides, or carried to the magazines within. The head man, too, of each gang of ten or twelve slaves stood by, and struck the pavement with a stick, as the baskets were emptied of their green or blackened bur- dens. When the account was correct, he received the ration of coarse farina, and a bit of jerked beef or fish, for his colored troop, when, with a powerful grunt, as a signal to his friends, accompanied by smart raps of the stick over their naked shoulders, they moved on. The work of the compradors, however, was soon despatched; and when a huge, jingling mass of keys - each of them nearly as big as a holster pistol--had been handed to the obsequious - Senhor Porgallos, we entered the house. The ladies had preceded us, and passing through a wide hall to the sala beyond, we rejoined them; and supper being soon announced, we all took our places. There was an enormous platter, to begin with, of an olha,--bits of meat, fish, and sausages, stuck round with okra, peppers, rice, and delicious vegetables of all sorts. Then followed a long, pointed-nosed fish, fresh from the mountain stream, broiled brown as a nut, and swaddled in a broad, green bed of guava leaves. Afterwards came a pig,   TALES FOR TEE MARINES.      -197 - quite a diminutive porker, - sitting, ready roasted, on the tip of his tail, with his fore feet up in the air, resting against a great bunch of crisped plantains. Then, be- sides, there was game, - a dish of parrots, - and finally a confectionery cathedral, tented over by a gauze veil of glistening sugar, with fruits, preserves, and sweetmeats without e'nd.  It was a capital supper, I assure you, and I felt very much inclined to fall to in a regular series of attacks upon the entire spread of viands before me. I had already seized a dish of the podrida, with a section of sausage, the size of a five-inch hawser, when one of my fair companions beside me exclaimed, with her -own beautiful mouth full of guava,- s Why, Enrique, are you crazy .? "No, only hungry!"I replied; but my appeal had no effect, for it was, "Here, Jilla, take away his plate; bring the drops first, and then a little broth." Lord! that was enough: the very name of " drops" entirely destroyed my appetite, and I merely sat listlessly in my wicker chair, sipping a bowl of thin barley gruel, and observing the famished padron and Dom  Joao go- ing through course after course, washed down by a gur- gling rush of old port, that seemed to make their rubi- cund noses fairly weep over the precious perfume. "Ah, -amigo," said the padron, smacking his lips, while the dessert ivas laid on the table, -' we remember this wine, the same we had at the grand feast where the 17*   198     TALES FOR THE MARINES. archbishop got so boosy on winning the wager, and gave , you the black diamond for assisting him." Here the unctuous host held up his middle finger to the ladies, and exhibited a large brilliant, as big as a hazel nut, and nearly black; though, at the same time, it sparkled in orange and purple flames, with the most wonderful effect. I learned, too, that it was, at that period, the only one of its tint known in Brazil. "What a treasure!" said the handsome matron, with a deep sigh. "Did any one ever behold such an un- earthly gem!" Que brilliante!" exclaimed little Antonietta, as the light from her own twinkling peepers appeared to reflect a ray from the jewel. c"But how did the senhor become possessed of it?" said they all. The round Dom Joao put out his dexter soft, fat flip- per, with his capacious wine glass, and swallowed three fillings of the tipple, as fast as the obliging padron could pour them out of a dusty bottle; then he laughed, un- til tears-they looked like drops of port-stood in his little black eyes; but he said nothing, only shook his head, and glanced towards the padron. "Well, ladies," began the latter personage, while he allowed his friend to undergo the same labor with a fresh bottle, that he himself had performed a moment before, "I'll tell you about that affair; for our host here, as you know, is not particularly glib at a story, and I'll do it in a few words for him.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      199 "You must be aware, that before you people came out to Brazil, - in fact, before the capital was changed to Rio, -a number of the influential persons of the country, myself and friend Porgallos here, among the rest, made a visit to Bahia to discuss topics which had for us all a pe- culiar interest,-or, in other words, to concoct a compre- hensive scheme of revolution, - so as, under a new form of government, to develop, if possible, the agricultural resources of the empire. I don't, however, know how long we were occupied in those pursuits; but I do re- member that we had a very estimable set of fellows there from Portugal, commanded by a general, Madeira de Mello, who, perhaps in virtue of his name, could outdrink every mother's son of us, and all his Portu- guese brigade to boot. There were, nevertheless, some very tough customers in Bahia at the time, one a Yankee commodore, in a smashing great frigate, who was the very twin in good looks and animal structure to Joao here at my elbow. He not only had taste and capacity, but a smell for wine, - owing, of course, to unexampled experience in that line,-that no one could deceive, or upset, not even our friend, the venerable archbishop of the province, who was, by long odds, the ooziest ab- sorbent I ever met with. Between these three gentle- men there existed&a generous rivalry, although neither had as yet gained any advantage of the other. Well, in a round of excellent dinners, both afloat and on shore, a large party of us were once congregated at the board   VV     -Xl:Jl..O JX, UJ' L-'Jl Vl X.NlI 'Dl. of our kind bishop in the refectory of the old convent in the city; and when the fruit had been taken away and the fine wines produced, Lthere arose, as usual, some pleasant dispute relative to the age, properties, color, strength, and so forth, of high wines. The general hereupon indulged us with an agreeable lecture on -all sorts of liquors, brewed, distilled, or fermented, from beer to arrack; told us that all wines took their color from the husk of the grape; that certain juices deterio- rated after a certain time, certain age, and climate; but concluded by declaring it to be his firm belief that the mouth was the only true crucible to test wine in. " In this the experienced bishop coincided wholly; but the old salt water veteran instantly filed a demurrer,.,and swore with a dreadful imprecation, that the nose was the only philosophical organ for a refined judge to decide by, on the quality of liquids which were intended to be- poured down one's throat. The commodore also boldly offered to back his opinion in the throats of all,-- Mello, the prelate, and the Portuguese brigade to boot - with a rare pipe of sherry, that had been ever so many times round the world, - in fact, it had been his travelling companion since his boyhood about the ocean, -that, blindfolded, no one could deceive him in the smell of wine. "There was a minute's silence ; the sailor glared round fiercely and exultingly, while the general smiled sar- donically, with a slight bow to the archbishop, as if he   I        TALES FOR THE MARINES.     - 201 would himself be glad of the chance of taking up the' bet, but that it would not be exactly right to defraud our host out of the sherry. Well, as -the commodore reiterated his taunt, there could be, of course, no other plan to pursue, than for the archbishop, at his own table too, to accept the wager. "Since, however, the prelate could not boast, amid his stock of wines, of an equivalent in sherry to match the famous pipe of the commodore, it was decided that he 8 should stake a couple of hogsheads of madeira, which were understood to have been sent out as a royal gift to the emperor. The vessel which brought it had been wrecked somewhere on the coast, and by some unac- countable fatality, the casks had floated on shore into the cellars of the archbishop's palace, where they had scarce- ly as yet been ]broached. "The conditions were, that thirteen wines- in glasses should be placed upon the table, which the commodore had the privilege of smelling as long as he liked, and he was to have one chance out of thirteen. Now, I felt concerned for the risk the bishop was about to run, for  I knew that the sailor's olfactories were infallible, and our host was, I imagine, of a like opinion, for, aside from the wine he had absorbed, he looked blue. "Porgallos, as you know, the nephew of that prelate, was deputed to?bandage the commodore's eyes, and present the samples before him. Now, we had all been quaffing previous to this from a bottle of port that had   202     TALES FOR THE MARINES. been drawn off in glass, when the archbishop's gramn father was laid down under ground in wood, nigh upo a century before. It had lost its color, and was of a pal auburn, but, nevertheless, the bouquet was as strong Z musk.   / "By soe e legerdemain, Joao got hold of the cork an placed it snugly up his sleeve. Meanwhile a napki had been carefully passed over the old commander eyes, a great battalion of glasses ranged silently on th board, and not a word was uttered. "As my friend, Porgallos, raised the brimming goblel one after the other, I saw by the roguish twinkle of hi eyes that some deviltry was ,going on; but I was. n then in the plot, and, being directed to put the que, tions, I began with, c Now, commodore, number one The glass was lifted up carefully to his carbuncled nose A single sniff, and he replied with great decisior ' Port.' The glass, was marked with a bit of pape and set aside. Up went number two. Another deeI sniff-' Canary.' And so he went on, quite correctly without the slightest hesitation, to Cape, Sicily, Cata lan, Burgundy, Malmsey, Tinta, Madeira, and so forth until there were but two specimens left. The worth: bishop's eyes turned green, for there was no madeirs he knew as an absolute fact, in the whole kingdom, lik the casks contained in his cellars; so you may conceiv what a severe trial it must have been to him, as, being point of honor, there was no escape.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       203  "There were, as I told you, but two wines left un- smelled, and they were some trash of light French grape, that a Dutchman might have detected at a glance. On this occasion, however, Joao changed hands, and thus held the sleeve which concealed the redolent cork to the nostril of the smiling and triumphant smeller. "It was an awful moment, but after a deep respiration, he shouted, 'Oporto!' There was a general -murmur of surprise, that any one could possibly have made such a mistake. I, too, was deluded, and thought he was either drunk or dreaming; but as, in my acquaintance with him, I had always seen him sober as a church, and firmly believed that he had not been asleep for twenty years, as he drank all day and played cards all night, I could not reasonably account for the blunder. "However, there was still another chance, and although the venerable host was encouraged, yet his face still re- mained sad and dubious. "' Here we go, senhores, - the last, number thirteen.' Steadily the slim crystal with its contents was elevated to the discriminating  member. ' Nearer,' said the commodore, as he inhaled at first a gentle air. The glass nearly touched his inflamed nose, bringing it in the closest contact with Joao's coat sleeve, when, with a long-drawn and decided sniff, he roared out, 'Port again, by thunder.' "As he tore away the bandage from his eyes, he was greeted by the rosy visage of the archbishop, smiling   204     TALES FOR THE MARINES. with rapture over Porgallos's shoulder, as he clasped him to his clerical bosom and wept with joy. "Porgallos has since given me to understand, that as a reward for his services, his uncle presented him that wonderful diamond now on his finger, which had been left to the church to atone for the, sins of his grandmother. Of those events I can't speak with certainty: I only know that, the following day, an order came for a gross of this famous port, which I am delighted to find has not lost its flavor. As for the commodore, when the loss of his sherry, the dearest prop of his existence, had been announced to him, he howled and swore like an infidel, and would actually have committed suicide, or cut off his treacherous proboscis, had he not been pre- vented by the company. "He sent the pipe on shore the next morning, and sailed away the same night; and as he died soon after- wards, it must have been of a broken heart." At the conclusion of this reminiscence the ladies re- tired, and Jilla twitched me away by the arm to my own couch, leaving the pair of cronies over their potations, where, by the way, we found them at daylight the fol- lowing morning, when we were again ready to move. Dom Joao was as smiling as ever, though rather bleary about the optics, assisting every body, bowing, taking off his straw hat, busy, polite, attentive, and agreeable as possible. Shaking us all by the hands, several times apiece, with a warmer embrace to the padron, and a nod   TALES FOR THE MARINES.     205 of assent by way of promise to return our visit at the estate of his friend before the close of the season, the sig- nal for departure was given, and the blacks trotted down the path, keeping time to their unvarying chants, while wve followed in their wake. (Very pleasant person, Senhor Porgallos," I re- marked to the drowsy padron during the ride, "but rather taciturn, I thought; he talks very little." C" Talk ! " ejaculated my companion; " why, you in- nocent skillykeedee, he's deaf and dumb, though he understands every thing you say, and more too, by the movement of the lips and expression of the face; and, by Bacchus, what does a man need a tongue for, ex- cept to taste such wine as that ? " The ladies, however, seemed to think, that since na- ture had presented him with so brilliant a nose, he might be willing to part with the diamond, and that it would be a great blessing if he could talk more and drink less. We passed the morning, winding up and down the acclivities, until, by the -side of a turbulent watercourse, we halted for breakfast and sleep. Then on we went beneath the dense shade, and at night, on a wide sertao, held bridles at the village of Lorena. Here, too, we were hospitably cared for, and there being no store of old port in that vicinity, the padron devoted his leisure to repose. Two days longer we pursued our journey, until the afternoon of the fifth day from Rio, from the elevated plateau of the Serra, the kind matron and her 18     206     TALES FOR THE MARINES. lovely daughter leaned over my cot, and in a cheerful tone said,- "Come, you lazy invalid, we are nearly at home now; look out upon Pinchao." It was, indeed, a look that I shall never forget. We were standing on an abrupt shoulder of the San Sebastin Mountains, and beneath us lay a broad bridge of land, like a saddle, to the heavy flanks of the opposite range. Away to the north trended a wide and beautiful valley, spreading wider and wider at the base, threaded by white streams of foaming water, until they all plunged into a rapid river, which wandered tortuously about the fertile plains below, and then disappeared between the walls of the distant chain of serras. To the south, the land sloped more sharply towards the ocean, which was just perceptible many leagues off, with a dim blue haze above, and the indistinct outlines of islands near the coast. The noble timber and magnificent vegetation were waving and bending, and changing color in all shades of green, as the full strength of the sea breeze swept over their lofty tops and branches, and then came roaring up the hills to the summit of the ridge, when, plunging down inland on the other side, with a breezy, rustling flutter, it flew in among the rich plantations of coffee and indigo on the slopes, and expended its force among the crackling palms and sugar canes of the river's banks.   TALES FOR THE MARINES,       207 Before us, at the farthest extremity of the saddle, layf embowered amid the foliage a large cluster of houses, - quite a hamlet of itself, - with long sheds and out- buildings, and a little chapel rising in the midst, with its gilt cross above, tipped with flame from a ray of the setting sun. The entire cluster was gayly frescoed, and the predominant tints of orange and pink contrasted prettily with the intensely green verdure around. Nearer to us was a thick grove of cassia, vanilla, cinnamon, and brazil wood, which we presently entered. There was no lesser vegetation, and we moved briskly along beneath the light and graceful folds of the filmy, feath- ery branches, which hung like masses of lfe above our heads, intermixed with great, glossy, fleshy leaves of the siphonia elastica, or Indian rubber tree, and here and there enormous clusters of cocoas, all bound together, twined in loops and links of the richest white and crim- son lianas, while the light from the parting sun was cast in golden -bars athwart the giant trunks, below the green and living roof. I began to fancy that I was wandering in, enchanted realms, or beholding a beautiful scene at the theatre, and not trotting amidst the gorgeous natural hues of a Brazilian forest. In an hour we were at the outer enclosures of the padron's estate, and dismounting, we crossed a turbu- lent torrent by a shifting bridge, which was drawn up every night, and passing through a heavy stone gate- way, we came to an oblong court yard. Opening right   208     TALES FOR THE MARINES. and left were immense warehouses and magazines for coffee, sugar, tobacco, hides, and charque, or the dried strips of beef given to the slaves; and continuing on through a long arched passage, we finally reached the court yard which contained the dwelling of the padron's family, in this their country retreat of Pinchao. It was a charming spot, paved with China tiles, in the most grotesque designs. At one end was a large tank for swimming, while all around were ranged tubs, and pyramidal stone stands, of iimes, citrons, oranges, and rare plants, and flowers of every color and fragrance. I had not the light or inclination to take more than a cursory peep of the interior of this spot, on the evening of our arrival; but in a few days, I had explored and enjoyed every inch of masonry and foot of land far and near. I discovered that the main dwelling stood with its back resting against a great isolated rock, where a full, bounding torrent leaped from the inaccessible crags behind, and dividing itself into two courses, it rushed around the hamlet, united again, and rolled away towards the valley to feed the large river below. With the ex- ception of the sugar works, the entire buildings were of but one story, and the portion occupied by the owner's family looked into the- clean, cool court-yard. The rooms were on three sides for sleeping, but the sala and dining room occupied the fourth, and had windows opening towards the sea. The roofs were flat and paved with the same material, and after a similar fashion to the f  ' '  .        TALES FOR THE MARINES.       209 court below. Both were covered with stout awnings, running in sections on horizontal poles and frames, so"' that by cords and tackles at the corners they could be spread or furled in a moment. ' On the broad, spacious terraces were narrow en- closures of earth filled with a profusion of fragrant plants and dwarf orange trees, through which, during the dry season, were trailed miniature aqueducts of yellow reeds bubbling with pure water, and punctured in such a manner as that the spattering little channels dripped out a regular tribute at the root of every plant. This beautiful terrace was our favorite resort. The view swept over the misty face of the distant ocean, the islands, coasts, plains, streams, and valleys, with the lofty peaks of the serras on both sides of the ridge; and that which lent an additional charm to our senses was the clear, musical roar of the cascade and torrents sur- rounding us, while the refreshing exhalations fromr the waters cooled the heated atmosphere. Here, too, during the hottest of the day, we swung in grass hammocks, watching the humming birds, or "winged flowers," as the natives call them, flitting about the shrubs and fruit, and listening to the metallic clang of the urapongas, like the strokes of a deep-toned bell resounding through the forests below. At times we heard the sharp, whistling. chirps of the oriole sentinel bird, giving the alarm of danger to his thieving corn-  panions amid the orange groves; and the parrots, red, 18*   210     TALES FOR THE MARINES. blue, and green, chattering and screaming in their harsh notes during their daily combats, one tribe with another. Occasionally, before the approach of a thunder storm, we would have a call from a whole " wilderness of mon- keys," who, perched on the jutting angles of the cas- tellated rock behind us, would look down and make ob- servations upon our mode of life in the most contemp- tuous manner possible.  My principal amusement, however, when I became strong enough, was to entice Antonietta and her hand- maiden Jilla into the forest, in company with the son of the padron, a lad about my own age. There he taught me to use the bow of the country. It was made of short, tough, springy slips of wood, with two cords, the width of the bow apart, upon which, near the mid- dle, was a neat network, which held the missile.- Our ammunition consisted of the small, solid green nuts of the cocoa; and we soon became such adepts in the use of the weapon, that we could bring down our prey at full forty yards. I have seen my young companion strike a humming bird while poised in mid air, sipping with its delicate bill from the lianas. The brilliant ton- cans, however, were the rarest game; and in a few weeks we had procured a sufficient stock of their lemon and red plumes to make a cape for the shoulders of the little Spanish brunette, who attended us on our rambles. She was not, however, idle; for with Jilla's assistance, and other wee bits of animated ebony, she would go in   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        2" pursuit of the gorgeous insects of the country, and after- wards twine them  into wreaths or clusters for the hair, where the beautiful colors--deep green, yellow, and blue-would sparkle in the lamplight with the finest effect imaginable. In the early morning, too, before the hot sun had drunk up the perfume of the fruits and flowers, we would wander along the slopes of the hills, through the clear- ly-tilled coffee plantations, plucking here and there a handful of pure white blossoms and   ripe red berries, to be dried and cured for our own private drinking. Again, we would sit for hoursi-later in the day, under the leafy shade of the rich natural arbors, interlaced with the del- icate tendrils and  flowers of the lianas, and watch the negroes -on  the flat, rocky esplanades below, peeling, soaking, spreading, raking, drying, and picking the cof- fee for final use. It was a delightful existence I led in this charming tropical retreat. The time slipped rapidly away, and I lost all ear for the music of a  boatswain's whistle, and eye for the flutter of a sail.: All I cared for, now that I had become   quite well and active, was to listen to the  low, sweet pipes of Antenietta, and' to watch the floating folds of her light canvas as she sailed from tree to tree in quest of the insects for her evening  toilet. We had no lack of visitors either--a crowd on Sun- days, the families of the neighboring planters, and some- times a casual acquaintance from Rio or San Paulo. On                             TALES FOR THE MARINES. these occasions we danced and had feasts of dulces; the girls staid all night, said mass in the morning, and pad- dled about the tank, too, before they went away. Then we used to attend them many a mile down to the banks of the river, on the plain below, make purchases at the little town of Sillambya, and then a brisk pace home, with the sea breeze in our teeth. Six months flew by on these gay butterfly wings be- fore I even reflected how happy I had been, or gave a thought as to whether the busy world outside of Pin- chao would ever bother itself about me again. One day, however, the dream was dissipated. I lay swing- ing in a grass hammock on the terrace, with no one near save my kind angel, Dona Mary, or Pancha, as she was usually termed by the natives, when the cheerful voice of the padron exclaimed, as he pitched a packet of let- ters towards her, "'There, my darling - news for you, and something, too, for the little reefer." Poor girl! she had been serious and pensive for a long while, and when the parcel fell at her feet, she snatched it up, and placed it to her heart; but as some painful thought appeared to come over her, she trembled, the color forsook her cheeks, and tremulously pressing her lovely hands to her eyes, the tears gushed out like a fountain. She sat down, and, after an effort, tore off the envelope. Hier fears were soon dispelled, however, and with a deep and thankful sigh, her sparkling though suffused eyes ran from page to page, and afterwards, thinking no one by,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.   she pressed the missive passionately to her lips and heart. Lord, man, you handsome officer in particular, what would you have given to behold those secret and lavish endearments of that fond and loving woman upon the mute missive, and all for you too? And who knows but you may have been, like any other "gentle man of war," airing your love vocabulary upon some false image,-whether Hindoo or Saxon it matters not, and instead of thinking, mayhap, with Scapin, that " trois ans de galeres de plus ou de moins ne sont pas pour ar- reter un noble cceur," it might more properly read, "three years away from one's sweetheart should not paralyze the affections of an ardent lover "? I contend, said the indignant Lieutenant, that this species of polyg- amy before marriage should be put down; and good, 'wholesome laws devised for the permanent suppression of this vice. Well, as I told you, I was lying perdu, as it were, in the network of the hammock, regarding this fair crea- ture through the interstices of my hanging couch, when some little movement I unwittingly made attracted her attention. She hastily put the letter she had been reading in the bosom of her dress, and speaking up quite, unconcernedly, said, "You there, Harry? Why, what has become of 'Tonietta?" She then approached the hammock with her joyful soul dancing in her looks, and, leaning over, actually kissed me. I heard the rustle, however, of the crumpled letter in the folds of her dress,  2 14     TALES FOR THE MARINES. and I felt that the caress was intended, in imagination at least, for some one else--her handsome officer of course; and being a little ugly runt of a boy, becoming suddenly unaccountably jealous and-savage, I turned pettishy away from lips that an emperor might have lost an empire for. By the way, ladies, exclaimed the Lieutenant, as he rose from his chair and exhibited himself at full length before his audience, I'll tell you a secret worth the hearing, or rather a conviction which has forced itself upon me in the varied experiences I have had in differ- ent parts of both hemispheres. Your handsome men are' almost invariably troubled with fits. I don't know how to account for it, either on philosophical or physical grounds; but I opine that Nature, in her all-wise dispo- sition to preserve a balance of power in these matters with her creatures, is constantly striving to recompense us ugly fellows by an exemption from those unpleasant disorders I have alluded to. There are exceptions, I am free to admit; but I never met with one save in the sole case of my handsome friend Jack Gracieux; and even he was always complaining of his gizzard. The narrator worried his hair, so that it stuck out like the headdress of a Tongataboo Islander, and resumed his seat and his yarn at the same time, while the ladies looked incredulous, and went on systematically with their knitting. "O fie! don't be cross," said my kind angel, in her %   TALES FOR THE MARINES. -15 sweet tones. "-Here are letters for you, which papa gave me, and perhaps it will comfort you to read them." I was so ashamed of my unreasonable, boorish conduct, that I immediately sprang out of the hammock, and kneeling on both knees before her, took her hands in mine, and said, "My dearest, good sister, can you for- give my rudeness and ill temper? Please do. I'll never offend you again, for I love you better than any one else in the wide world." "Hush, hush!" she laughed, pulling me to my feet;, "I'm not vexed with you; and now you shall kiss mew there, now we're even." At that moment I raised my face, and what should  meet my gaze but that pretty brunette, Antonietta,. standing on the highest steps of the terrace, and bend- ing over the marble coping of the balustrade. She had evidently just returned from the forest, and her broad straw flat was hung with strings of brilliant insects, while her bodice and   waist were wreathed, and  the skirt of her white dress looped, with multitudes of the rarest leaves and flowers of every rich hue and form that Jilla's assiduity and her mistress's taste could invent. Her face was half averted, though I could see the eyes were flashing as only a creole girl's eyes can flash, while the delicate nostril was slightly distended, and there was a deep red spot on her cheek. She looked like a very little demon of a Flora, but still she was a beauty. I divined at once that she had not only witnessed, but overheard, every thing, innocent- as it was, that had ,  o   16     TALES FOR THE MARINES. ,assed between her tall!friend and myself, who, by the ray, with her back towards Antonietta, had not seen the angry little maiden, but; had tripped away to her own room, no doubt to kiss and weep doatingly over her lover's first letter. I was on the point of running to the little brunette and explaining the incident, but a desire to tease the young coquette, who ever delighted in teasing me, and the pleasure I experienced in feeling that I had made her jealous, restrained me a few seconds, and meanwhile she had vanished. That evening, however, she danced and flirted in the most barefaced manner with a black, bristle-pated, chub- by cornet of caqadores, who was dismounted and serv- ing in the militia. She would take sugar water and dulces from no one else. She gave him her fan to get mended at the village; and I heard her promise to waltz with him forever; though; forsooth, the native  went round, in his small, yellow-tailed jacket, like a fat sweet potato. I bore this punishment tolerably well for some time, but at last, becoming a trifle piqued, I ven- tured to saunter up to the senorita and claim her for the contradanga, which she had as good as sworn never to dance with any one else. "We get through the figures so well together, Enrique," she would say, "that Hfeel awkward with my other partners." But on the present occasion the gypsy gave me one stare of amazement out of her large, liquid, languishing eyes, and then mur- muring, with a light laugh, "Adios, ning," she placed f .     TALES FOR THE MARINES.      217 her dimpled fingers in the dingy paw of the chunky cornet, and off they whirled. I should have died perfectly happy if I could have dealt the witch one stinging slap on her lovely flushed cheek, and then kicked her fat native from the big rock into the cataract. This gratification was denied me-; so I smothered my resentment for my fickle mistress, and wandered among the sedate, cigar-puffing gentry who were assembled about the doors and windows of the sala. They 'were all attired in the briefest sky-blue coats, with the narrowest cut tails you ever saw in a civilized country, with bright brass buttons, and white or striped trousers, silk stockings, and red pumps. I was mentally speculating whether some of them were not troubled with a rush of blood to their toes, from mere sympathy to their shoe leather, when I came plump upon our hospitable acquaintance, Dom Joao Por- gallos, who seized me cordially by the flipper, nodded, winked, smiled, patted me on the shoulder, and, in short, gave me to understand that he had just arrived, was quite well, and was overjoyed to find me entirely recovered. The padron joined us, and presently, supper being announced to him, he privately telegraphed about a dozen of the most rotund of the individuals in car- mine slippers and little waistcoats, and we all slipped quietly away to the dining hall. We were soon around the table. There was, as u{sual, a steaming olha, flanked by a platter of black beans and sausages sufficient for a 19   218      TALES FOR THE MARINES. company of grenadiers. This was all the solid eating except, perhaps, something in the way of fish, that ever graced the padron's supper table at Pinchao. There was no stint, however, in fluids. Every sort of that entertainment, save water, flowed in streams. There was a large, round judge in the company, very fat about the gills, apparently apoplectic, who, while rins- ing his throat after swallowing a few alligator pears, opened the conversation by informing the party present that he had received an express from Rio, apprising him that the southern provinces had been recently flooded with spurious copper money, and that there was reason for believing that several vessels were employed along the coast in our vicinity, in furtherance of the same laudable undertaking. -It was then that I learned that the copper coin of the empire had been stamped and issued at a nominal value far above the intrinsic worth of the metal. The plethoric judge continued, amid his wines, to state that the government contemplated calling in all the copper money in the empire, to re-mark it at its true standard, and in the mean time they were anxious to en- trap the enterprising importers of the spurious article. To effect this he was in communication with the author- ities of the little ports of Princeza and Sebastin, and he expected shortly to proceed thither, with the troop of or- denannas of his friend the coroneis, referring to the supe-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      219 rior officer of my rival the cornet, which body of militia numbered seventeen, including two drummers. "Bom dito! Very good, senhores," said the stout padron. "I'm not opposed on principle to smuggling," --here he tossed off a pint of Burgundy, but at the same time, I don't mind seeing the sport of capturing the vagabonds; and since I am a delegado, ex oficio, and have, moreover, a little business down at Sebastin relative to shipping some sugar for Rio Janeiro, why, I'll join you." Dom Joao acquiesced in this plan, also, in his own pe- culiar way, and so it was arranged that we were all to join the army of brave ordenanpas, whenever it became positively known that the copper merchants were on the coast. With the exception of the padron and his inseparable Porgallos, the remaining individuals retired to rest. I lingered to the last, and then walking out into the court yard, I found that the music of the sala was silent, the pol- ished floor deserted, and the entire dwelling in repose. I was out of humor with all the world, and turning over a scheme in my own mind how I could easiest quarrel with the bristle-headed cornet, and do him grievous bodily injury for having usurped the favor of my mistress, when the thought[ occurred to me that I had not yet pe- -rused the letters which had been handed to me in the hammock.  Acordingly I  slowly bent my steps up one of the flights of the terrace, and while walking over the tiled roof to the angle where the hammocks were swing-   $20     TALES FOR THE MARINES. ing, I observed a white figure seated near the coping. My tread was scarcely audible above the bubbling rush of the torrent raging below, and I unconsciously found myself at the side of Antonietta. She did not perceive me, however, and as the sarcasm of J' Good-by, child," was still ringing in my ears, I was on the point of coun- termarching as noiselessly and expeditiously as I came; but some how or another there is such a magnetic sym- pathy, or attraction, - call it what you will-around these fluttering little fledglings, that I verily believe a boat hook hitched to my trousers, or a luff tackle pur- chase at my heels, could not have dragged me away. There the little beauty sat, both hands crossed in her lap, her head resting against one of the stone pillars which upheld the ridgepoles of the awnings. A band of her glossy hair was streaming over her cheek, while her gaze was steadily fixed upon the distant sea, just glim- mering, a long way off, in the feeble light of a young moon. " Dona Antonietta,' I began, - and this was the first time I had ever 'addressed her by so formal a title, "; how late you are up! Do you know that day will soon be breaking?" Not a word, only a slight start of vexation and surprise, as she hastily put up a hand and pushed back her loose tresses. Presently I made another at- tempt. "Senorita Gonsalvez, have I offended you?  This was greeted with a very perceptible sneer ; accord- ingly I changed my mode of attack, with, "How can   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      221 you treat me so cruelly, Antonietta, and take such a vio- lent fancy for that Brazilian officer? Does the last comer make you forget old friends?" Another curl of the poutilg lip, and a very slight gesture of impatience. "( Dear 'Tonietta, you know I love you so much! You are my first love, too; and  " "Mentira -fib!" exclaimed the girl, as her Spanish eyes gleamed with passion. 1 No, no, 'Tonietta mia! all true, true!" and here hurrying on in a jumble of asseverations and explana- tions, I told her what I had seen, and how indignant I felt towards Pancha, and all about the letter. I tried, also, to explain, in a breath, the difference betwixt my, loves, - a difficult task it was, - one for gratitude, and the other for real feeling, and all that, until at last I found myself seated beside the now weeping little beauty, with my arms around her, and I administering consolation by kissing her eyes, cheeks, and rosy lips, as if my very existence depended upon getting through a thousand or so a minute. The Lord only knows how long we remained on that terrace; and we might perhaps have been there until this time, had I not been awakened from my trance by the tinkle of the chapel bell; and glancing towards the east, the gray bars of dawn were opening before the light of the coming day. "Adios, mi alma!"I said, after leading her down the marble stairs. 19k   222     TALES -FOR THE MARINES. "Hasta siempre, ning mio," she whispered, while the pressure of her hand thrilled in mine, as she stole, like a snowy sylph, into her own room. Need I tell you that for the second time I forgot all about my packet of letters, and went to my couch, and soon to sleep in a little Elysian Field of my own planting, which I resolved to live in and cultivate for Antonietta alone, with nothing but singing birds and butterflies for companions? I dreamed of some in- describable paradise of this nature, and that a big ape, with the bristle pate of my rival on his shoulders, was walking up a-tall tree, hand over fist, with my bride elect tucked away under his sinewy paws.  As he grinned like a devil, and shied a cocoa nut slap at my nose, I leaped up with dire intent from my couch, and was greeted by the visage of the jolly padron, and the polite Porgallos, standing in the flesh beside me. {' Hillo!!" quoth the former. "Come, take a dip in the tank. Joao, here, and I have been discussing the af- fairs of the nation all night; - country's safe - so make your mind easy and have a plunge. By the way," he added, c" what says old Percy in his note?" "What note?' "I ejaculated. "Why, the packet I sent you yesterday by Mary, when you were napping away up there in the hammocks. I had a line, too, from that rollicking shipmate of yours, Hazy's his name, I believe, and here it is." Thus it ran:-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      23 "My esteemed Toper : If that elf of a reefer, Mr. Har- ry Gringo, is yet alive, and not carried off by the mon- keys, will you indulge him with the accompanying doc- uments, and pack him carefully on a mule, and consign him to my care here at Santos, so that I may return him to his own nest or the flag ship, which last I expect to meet one of these days at St. Catharine's. I'am also commissioned to offer a passage to the daughter of Don Antonio Gonsalvez, and will make the chit as comforta- ble as my spacious cabin will admit. "Ever thine, JACK HAZY." You may take an affidavit that my heart sank within me on perusing this characteristic billet. But pulling on my trousers, I ran up to the terrace, and grasped the packet which I had so often forgotten. There were sev- eral letters - one from your grandmother, filled with ex- cellent advice, and informing me that-she had bought a pew in church, to solace my last moments ; another from my old grandfather, with a promise of a new boat and gun when I got back home; then a small, though legi- ble scrawl from Senhor Jose Moskeet, bumboatman at the city of Rio Janeiro, conveying a sincere hope that I would cancel a :small obligation with respect to fish, fruit, and sundries, before I departed this life. There were  also a  few  lines from  my messmates on board the Juniata in the Rio de la Plata, and final-   TALES FOR- THE MARINES. y, a kind missive from my old captain. This was its )urden: - "My dear Boy: I have thought best to request Lieu- tenant Hazy, who has recently been appointed to the brig Flirt, to take you on board, in case he goes to your vicinity, as I trust that your health is nearly restored, and the sea air will be, of service to you. With my kind regards to the ladies and the padron, I am yours, J. P." I must have looked very dismal and lugubrious as the last of these papers fell from my hands, for the good- natured padron patted me lightly on the back, and said, "Well, well, never mind; we shall all break up the camp here shortly, and we'll have you again at your old quarters in Rio when the squadron gets back. So slip on your togs, take a bath, and let's get a bite of break- fast into our lockers." I was sad enough, certainly, and nothing but the per- spective hope of meeting my warm-hearted friends again gave me the slightest relief. That day I threw my bow into the torrent, pushed Jilla so roughly over the bridge that she injured her tender shins, beat my sedate mule, the Bishop, so severely that he lay flat down in the mud beside a cane brake; and altogether, I felt more miserable than I had ever made myself before.   Towards evening, however, a pleasant stroll with Pan- cha and Antonietta, and the cool rebuff the latter gave my potato-built rival, - who had ridden himself into a profuse perspiration a distance of eight leagues, with a letter from the judge, and the repaired fan,- rather re- vived me. At dinner the padron told me that he was to leave the next day but one; and that he had received intelligence of a smuggling vessel being on the coast, which was purchasing sugar at high prices, but of course paying in base metal. After considerable discussion, it was decided also that Mary should accompany her little creole friend a part of the way to Santos, and the matron too; for it was the boast of her amiable spouse that he never slept away from his tooth brush or his wife. Of necessity she was to attend him on the expedition to Sebastin, wh-ee, with a proper escort, Antonietta and myself were to be despatched to our destination. The hour arrived. I gave one glance around that noble terrace, looked over the parapet into the rushing stream, and up at the great solid castle of granite, then down into the court yard, with its miniature groves. and pool, which I never beheld again. Then, as we wound over the little bridge, and through the stupen- dous bolls of the forest, in the dim, gray light of morn- ing, where the feathery branches -and clasping vines were spread with the gossamer webs, sagging with laps of dew, I leaned over the blacking brush mane of the    TALES FOR THE MARINES. Bishop, and dropped a tear upon his docile neck, as I bid adieu to Pinchao.  I'll pinch somebody else," whispered the matron to the narrator, "if you keep that boy up any later this evening." The Lieutenant bowed, sucked his cheroot,  and by his silence ended his adventures for the night.  CHAPTER VII. THE Lieutenant again threw himself into his chair,- a comfortable, leather-backed fellow, with straps for arms, and surreptitiously pulling off the suspenders, which were the Lieutenant's abhorrence, from Fred's trousers, he looked inquiringly around at the ladies, to know when they would be ready to hear a continuation of his exploits, and receiving a nod of approval from his help- mate, resumed the Gringoniad. We were a much larger'party on leaving Pinchao than on our advent; for we enrolled in our band the fat judge, the dear, polite Porgallos, the coroneis, and his aide-de-camp, besides the padron, the ladies, and my- self; the battalion of troops, including the two drum- mers, having begun their march the preceding night. We had a journey of some twenty leagues to the coast; but before the sun had a fair chance of scorching our brains to cinders, we reached a pleasant halting place on the banks of a little rivulet, and had accom- plished nearly one half the distance. The blacks had already made fires in the clefts of the rocks, cleared away the brushwood, and made a carpet of rich grasses and the enormous leaves which grew in profusion around. (227)   As delicious a breakfast had also been prepared, of choc- olate, meats, a tomato salad, and cool French wines, as a Christian of the nineteenth century would have chosen to sit cross-legged at. The siesta came afterwards; and on this occasion my canvas cot had again been called into requisition for Antonietta; so I lay at full length beneath, and thus permitted Jilla the double gratification of fanning us both to repose with a banana leaf, big enough to have made a hammock for the pair of us. The blue ocean was at our feet, and away off on the horizon arose the indistinct outline of Princeza, and lesser peaks of islands to the west. 'We had been dozing some hours, when, by and by, the lofty trees above our heads gently nodded with their feathery plumes one to another, and the broad, green, fleshy leaves of the smaller growth began to. rustle as they rubbed and beat their- ponderous stems together. The parrots, toucans, and maocas ceased their deafening, harsh, screaming noises, and with a twittering succes- sion of chutters, furled their brilliant wings, and creep- ing close side by side upon the dizzy branches, nestled to quiet and rest. At the same time the first refresh- ing sighs of the sea breeze came faintly flurrying up along the valley, till, gaining strength, it rolled with its fall force, and we all raised our heads- to catch its cool breath upon our tepid cheeks. As we jogged on, in an easy, descending ramble, from one beautiful valley to another, and approached tl!e ^   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      2.29 9 ba;e of the serras, the conjoint effects of heat and mois- ture produced such an astonishingly luxuriant growth of vegetation as positively to baffle all description; 'in so extraordinary a superfluity, too, that in some places nothing but the heavy, curved cane knives of the negroes could clear a pathway. We soon, however, passed through this 'belt of rank undergrowth, and emerged into the more level, but equally fertile slopes. The soil was still so rich that the very trees split for pal- ings to the plantations were shooting branches, like sap- lings of a year's growth; this, too, without regard to  the ends which had been stuck into the earth. Once on the open road, our beasts quickened their pace, the Bishop coursing like a descendant from the equine stock of Mahomet, and away we ambled, after the long line of negroes, who, with their monotonous chants, never seemed to tire. The sun set and the moon came, but the halo of its first rising had given place to the sharp, clear disk, high in the heavens, before a final volley of shrieks from the noisy blacks announced to us that we had at last reached our stopping-place for the night, on the suburbs of the little port of Sebastin. We were cordially received by a tall, thin priest,- who, by the way, was the only one of that build I ever saw in Brazil, -with a broad-rimmed, stove-pipe hat on his head, that must of necessity have. been a fortune to the hatter who made it, in material alone, to say nothing of labor. , 20   I TALES FOR THE MARINES. ", Padre! O Padre Flaquinho!" shouted the padron; "here we are, your pious daughters, your obedient sons, Joao and myself, with an ouvidor, an infidel of a sailor, together with the coroneis, and a particularly choice lot of militia, considering they are not paid, who will all bivouac with you for the night, and, divert you with mu- sic in the morning.". C"Such as I have, my children," replied the courteous priest, " shall be provided;, and my good niece, Maron- ha, here, has been expecting you." Now, this niece alluded to, who stood near to her un- cle, with her face and form lighted up by the flames of the torches, bore such a remarkable resemblance to the padre's patrician features, that one unacquainted with the genealogical fibres of the family tree might have hazarded the suggestion that the elegantly-shaped Ma- ronha might have been his daughter. As we all know, however, that celibacy is not regarded as an " accursed state " by the priesthood, but, on the contrary, as a very great blessing, why, as a natural consequence, this idea could have no foundation in fact. The padre's house was not very extensive; but, nev- ertheless, we were all decently provided for, even to the foot soldiers, who had preceded us, and who found shelter under cover of a long, tiled shed, within a tama- rind grove a short distance from the dwelling house. After a mouthful of frugal beans, and a sip of tolerable aguardiente grog, we betook ourselves to grass hammocks   under cover of the projecting piazzas which ran around the building, while the ladies were billeted, under the fair Maronha's supervision, in a large apartment by themselves. Scarcely, however, had we men folks composed our jaded frames to slumber, when we were awakened, as we thought, by the infernal musicians belonging to the marching brigade, who commenced hammering away on their brass kettle drums like a battalion of China- men at work with chopsticks. "What the merry thunder is all that racket for at this time of night?" exclaimed the padron, as he kicked the taciturn Dom Joao, and shook the coroneis into conscious- ness, while they all swung their heels out of the ham- mocks, and proceeded deliberately to strike a light for a paper cigar. This, by the way, is the very first feat your true Portuguese or Spaniard performs after his birth, and just before he gives up the ghost. I never knew the contrary, except in one instance, where, an ac- quaintance of mine being about to hang some Spanish buccaneers in the West Indies, captured by the mosqui- to fleet, one of the pirates, with the drop rope pretty tight around his throat, and the knot under his ear, asked with his last breath for "yoco mas cafe "-a lit- tle more coffee. Well, click, click, went the flint and steel; a spark caught the tinder in the silver tube; smack, smack, oom-m-me! the tobacco ignited, and the smokers were    [2     TALES FOR T1 xxx&* i-Lcw* o., then ready for any question which might be brought to their notice. Discussion, however, was utterly impossi- ble, for the noise" without increased, until the whole plain seemed to be alive with insane drummers. "Holloa I Padre! Dom  Carlos!  Estevano!" shout- ed the padron; "are we attacked?  Is there murder in the wind, or has Don Sebastian returned from Africa?' Presently the women were all agog, the blacks yelled and gabbled like denions, and at last the padre himself appeared in his shirt and shovel hat,--a very novel fancy sketch he made in that rig,-  and desired, also, to be informed what was, the disturbance among the soldiers. "Disturbance!" returned the padron;   "I believe you; for, by St. Barnabas, I have lived, at one time and another, half a lifetime about military quarters, and the like horrid contrivances, but I never heard such a devil's tattoo of a reveille as this; and it appears to be up in the air, too!" Still at short intervals the rubadub din went on; not, however, in regular rolls or measured beats, as pre- scribed by written barrack music, but the most discur- sive, helter-skelter, rumbling, rattling, snapping of sticks, brass, and sheepskin ever heard. Meanwhile the obliging Porgallos, having got his cigarrillo into a glow, and acquired a precise knowledge, after his own peculiar method, of the affairs without, rolled out of his couch in the ,briefest night -raiment, perhaps, you ever saw, and vanished.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.     U  66 Presently he returned, followed by the priest, the colonel, my rival with the bristle pate, half a dozen blackskins, and 'a crowd of' people who had been inter- cepted flying in desperation along the road, to escape from what they believed to be a hostile invasion. As for the jolly padron, he never budged from his position until his friend Dom Joao approached him in a quiet convulsion of laughter; then, after a little dumb language, made up of signs, nods, and other pantomime, the portly pa- dron threw himself back, kicked up his toes, and roared off in a series of husky shouts, which brought him within half a second of apoplexy, and for the moment deadened the distressing martial music without. "What is the matter, papa?" whimpered the good matron from within the dwelling. "Do let us poor women out, and don't be dancing round, there in your shirts."    -    So soon as the padron, the lank padre, and the chief of the Brazilian forces had recovered breath, they suc- ceeded in explaining to us that the soldiers, while sound asleep, were disturbed by the music of the drums, and, believing themselves attacked by the enemy, had, with the exception of one man, bolted en madsse, and were no longer visible. Before seeking repose, they had hung their accoutrements on the overhanging eaves of the sheds, and the drums had been pounced upon by a troop of ringtailed monkeys, who, overjoyed, no doubt, with their prizes, forthwith retired -to the lofty branches 20     -   234     TAIES FOR THE MARINES. of the grove, and there, in emulation of the biped performers, began to practise. Every one of them had a stick or a stone, and they hammered away like imps, as they were. In a few minutes, however, Porgallos had procured the double barrelled gun, and getting within easy range, he let drive both charges of fine shot up amidst the nimble rogues, when down came the drums, and sticks, and stones with a crash, and the performers went off with a series of shrieks and enraged screams, which almost made us as deaf as Porgallos. It is needless to add that the drums themselves required such extensive repairs that we were not again troubled with them. When the clamor had entirely subsided, we again be- took ourselves to the hammocks; but sleep was out of the question, so we swung to and fro to create an arti- ficial breeze, until the sun came up with a red, heated atmosphere around it, and we were forced to screen our- selves within the dwelling. After coffee, the troops, who had returned after their inglorious skirmish with the, monkeys, were marched off with the fat officer to quarters in the port. They were mere lath-made fellows, with thin, spidery limbs, and dingy, yellow faces. Their muskets were several sizes too large for them, and they were uniformed in green and yellow jackets, dirty brown trousers, grass sandals, and cloth caps, with variegated shaving brushes stuck in the top. Altogether, they did not impress me as s    , TALES FOR :THE 'MARINES.     235 troops capable of withstanding a desperate charge while thrown into hollow square upon any severe crisis; and since they were all more or less steeped to their eyes in garlic, and very much afflicted with cutaneous disorders and fleas, I was not sorry to see them file off with the bristle pate at their side. The gentlemen, too, of our own immediate party went off also in the train of Padre Flaquinho, and I was left with dear little 'Tonietta and the other ladies all to myself. In the evening the, padron got back, but in a furious passion; and indeed it was the only occasion I ever re- member to have seen him out of humor. He told me that there had been, as was surmised, a large polacre, in company with a schooner, about the coast for a week or more, buying up sugar and coffee, and that his " factor,- the devil roast him, - having received an excellent offer, as he thought, had disposed of four thousand arrobas of sugar, and been paid in spurious copper. There was, however, consolation in knowing," said the padron, "that several other merchants had been defrauded in like manner."   The negotiations had been conducted by an immensely tall man and a woman who- spoke the language so fluently they took her to be from Portugal. She was, moreover, so sharp and fierce, and drank so much fiery liquor, that she had terrified and bullied divers persons into bargains which they had no intention of making. As yet, however, the deluded traders of the port were not thoroughly aware how well they had /       J   236      TALES FOR THE MARINES. been duped, and the shrewd padron had not thought it advisable to put them in full possession of the facts. The two vessels had sailed the day before, with appar- ently plenty of money left-the polacre for Ilha Grande or St. Sebastian, while' the schooner was to run round to Santos, and take in a large lot of coffee, already engaged, to be paid for, of course, in coin of imperial weight, but not lawfully stamped with the arms of the empire. The padron was some sort of a Brazilian alcalde, be- sides being empowered to arrest the dealers in this metal. Moreover, having a strong inclination to recover his own little dues, it was decided that we should push on along the coast to Santos. We took leave of the hos-' pitable priest by an embrace under the shade of his hat, made our compliments to his handsome niece, and then mounting our beasts, - my own the ever-docile Bishop, -we set out in the fresh air of the night. The troops were also put in motion. On this occasion, however, instead of leading the advance, they made a flank move- ment, and brought up the rear. The good Porgallos accompanied us for a league or two, and then, in his usual pleasant way,-bade us adieu. He gave me a great deal of good advice, and took such an affectionate leave of me that there has always existed an idea in my mind that he intended to present me with the large black brilliant, but refrained, perhaps, from conscientious scruples.   TALES' FOR THE MARINES.      237 On the evening of the second day we were in the pretty little town of Santos. It is built about three miles from the sea coast, on the banks of an inlet, or rather a narrow river, which takes a wide curve from its mouth, and wanders about two or three leagues before it approaches the town. The banks are tolerably high on the eastern shores, and very low on the other. Near the entrance was a venerable and  dilapidated foxrt, mounting a variety of heavy ordnance, which might have done mischief had there been -any ammunition; but in my time the decayed old custom house sergeant and his wife who commanded the fortress were not sup- plied with an ounce of powder, though they did a deal of fighting among themselves. The depth of the river was quite sufficient, all the way up to Santos, for a line of battle ship, though it was seldom vessels of war came above the usual anchorage near the fort. I was up bright and early the morning after our ar- rival, and passing along the sandy streets before the little caf6s were open, I gained the water side, and there I saw, to my surprise, lying in the stream, :my friend Hazy's ten-gun brig, the Flirt. She was a smallish craft, built by contract, and fortunately rotted to pieces before she had the chance of turning 'turtle and drown- ing all hands, as her sister did in a -hard norther " off Vera'Cruz in the Gulf of Mexico. The Flirt was the only vessel with a pennant in the river except a queer, pretentious looking guarda costa, with a red stripe 5 - . J  - !   TALES FOR THE MARINES. around her sides, a lot of gingerbread work about the bow and stern, with a big, clumsy gun amidships, but without sails or rigging. Though the sun was getting up, there was nothing stirring on board-the brig save a sleepy quarter master hanging over the taffrail, with a spy glass clutched tight, apparently, in his embrace, while on the little platform of a topgallant forecastle stood a sentry leaning upon his musket, and seeming to be examining something remarkable down the barrel. I noticed that the awn- ings were spread, and that underneath they were lined with various national flags, while the curtains of the after part were also decked with party-colored bunting. From all these external evidences, I surmised that there had been a festivity, such as a ball or funpion of some kind, on board, the previous night. Presently the bell struck four, denoting six o'clock. The marine brought himself suddenly to an order, and sung out, "Orll's well." This startled the man with the spy glass, who, in trying mechanically to bring that instrument to his op- tics, knocked his tarpaulin overboard, and thus brought his drowsy faculties into existence once more. By and by a feeble whistle was heard, followed by a languid call of " All hands up hammicks." It was a good while before the men came up from below, like drony bees, with their sleeping gear lashed up and balanced on their shoulders, preparatory to having it stowed in the net- tings. This duty was no sooner executed than a boat   was got alongside from  the swinging boom, and her crew, followed by stewards with baskets, and a midship- man, tumbled over the side into her, and, shoving off, pulled lazily to the shore. I happened to be seated on a rough-hewn rudder of a coasting craft, in the midst of a small coterie of black ladies, who had just landed from a canoe, with enormous flat trays of oranges and ripe bananas, as the Flirt's jolly boat touched the landing. The crew laid in their oars, and lounging listlessly over the rowlocks, shaded their eyes with their hats, and went off to sleep. The younker, too, who steered the boat, - a freckled faced lit- tle fellow,--was apparently inoculated with the prevail- ing epidemic; for, after tucking a leg under him on the stern sheets, he swayed it up and down with both hands on the heel, so that, with his peculiar physical organiza- tion, he made a noise with the knee pan similar to a rattling volley of exploding percussion caps; and, with his head supported by the backboard, he went to sleep also. I could not get a fair view of his face at first; but when I did, I recognized an old acquaintance of my own immediate" 'faderland," fiom a place called the Dismal Swamp, whose name was Archy Makeen. He was a warm-hearted, brave little fellow, and being, like Michael Cassio, "a great arithmetician," he bids fair to become one of the most scientific savans the country can boast of.   EMU     TALES FO'R THL- MAKINlES.         * "HHillo, Mac," I exclaimed; .c how are you ?" iHe started up a bit, but, not observing me, was again relaps- ing into his former complaint, when I added, " Take me on board, will you ?"  When seeing me seated amid the masses of fruit, attired in my pale nankeen jacket and trousers, albeit a trifle yellow looking, both from ex- posure and association, he squeaked out, with his eyes still only half open, " Take you on board ? D'ye think any body -wants to suck you for an orange ?"  CYes," I retorted, CC when they eat you first for a pickle." ,' By Jimminy, Gringo, is that you? Bless me, I didn't know you, at first; we had a dance and frolic on board all night, and I'm so tired and noddy I can hardly see now. Come, jump in, and give us your hilai."     I jumped into the boat, embraced my friend, and- sitting beside him on the thawts, we made a mutual confession of our sins. In about an hour, the stewards of the messes returned with their marketing, and we rowed off to the brig. The decks had just been washed down, the bright flags detached from the awnings, and the vessel assuming a man-of-war-like trim and order. I made a salaam to the mate in charge of the watch, who was standing in a puddle of sand and water, near one of the carronade slides, and asked permission to see the captain. "0, certainly!  he yawned; "you'll find him   in all human probability, down "in his cabin." Without   further leave, I quietly descended the companion way, abaft the wheel. It was quite dark whein I reached the lower deck; but feeling about, I soon found the knob of the cabin door, and in I walked. The rosy light of morning was streaming in through the stern ports, (par- tially obscured, however, by a brace of water monkeys and claret jugs, in flannel jackets,) and the little, long, narrow skylight, cut in the deck above; so that I caught, in a few seconds, a good view of the premises. A table stood in the centre of the cabin, upon which were lying a few odd gloves, part of a fan, a small heap of flowers, bits of ribbons, a single garter, and some books. A large, square mirror filled a panel between the ports abaft, which was also profusely decorated with the same style of articles of female ornament and ap- parel as were thrown about the table, with the addition of a strip of a  lace veil, and a  multitude of cards and notes stuck in the frame. Forward stood a   sideboard, covered with glasses, bits of cake, a pitcher half full of punch, and a number of empty decanters. The painted floor cloth seemed to have been inlaid with a  compost of cake, flowers, and wine. There was a bulkhead on one side-,of the buffet having a    door leading into a  pantry; and through the fine lattice work I  observed a  negro boy sound asleep,  With a  large woman's comb  stuck in his wool, and his face buried in a   dish of chicken salad.  On  each side of the cabin was a  spacious berth, handsomely -draped     [2     TALES FOR THE MAIVINXM*. by blue curtains, running on heavy gilt rods above. Both of these berths were occupied; one by a stoutish, swarthy, hairy individual, with an immense corporation, who looked, as he lay on his back, like a huge demijohn with one leg. He was evidently a native, and from the appearances around his pillow and his toilet, he had, perhaps, staid longer away from his domicile than he had any idea of, when he left. In the opposite couch I at once recognized Lieutenant Hazy. He was divested of his trousers only, and there he reposed, attired in a full-dress coat, epaulets, a bouquet of roses peeping from the folds of his cravat, and varnished boots; withal, he had the stump of a cigar stuck between~his lips, which the sleeper puffed at regular, snoring intervals, with much apparent satis- faction. I hesitated a moment whether to retire or present my- self; but a few words uttered by the commander of the Flirt induced me to suppose that he was about to awake, and I accordingly approached and took him by the hand. Thereupon he murmured, in the most soul- beseeching and touching accents, "Madam, I love your daughter." Again I ventured to give him a rough push, when I was assailed with, "Beautiful maiden, I adore thee." Now, the fact that any sane person could possibly address me as a virgin of great personal attractions, quite exasperated me; and with considerable feeling, I hitched on to the dreamer's boots, and nearly jerked   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      243 him off the bed. Upon the instant, he started as if struck by a galvanic battery; and'sitting bolt upright, he began with,-- "Don Padillo, you smell most villanously of garlic, and I decline to wed the cream-colored Brazilian heiress, unless you pay down a conto of reis,-and a cup of-coffee all round, to commemorate the happy eve-- " Here he got his eyes open; and, after closing them again, and then winking rapidly to himself, as it wvere, to recall his scattered senses, he burst out into a- hearty laugh, and shouted, - ' Why, you miserable whelp, where did you hop from ? I was in hopes you were dead."' Before I had time to reply to this Christian address,- the demijohn-built Brazilian gentleman in the opposite berth, disturbed by the noise, rolled over, and groaning in-great anguish, demanded, in husky Portuguese,-- " 0 Senhor !  Copo do rum ! 0, agua, por hounra dos santos ! " (" Who the blazes is that ? " said Hazy, as he stopped short himself and glanced across the cabin, when, as his eye caught the dark lineaments of the native, he threw himself back on the couch, and elevating his toes until they touched the carlings of the ceiling over his head, he roared like a maniac, - " Heaven be merciful to me  it's the governor! 0, murder! I made a speech to him, as I'm a sinner,- offered to revolutionize the country, - and gave him a   244     TALES FOR THE MARINES. salute of forty guns; fired away all the cartridges filled in the brig's magazine, at midnight too; and, Jesu, I believe I am to marry an old blowzy daughter he owns, the moment a dispensation can be procured from the pope.' Then, assuminga serious air and voice, he sonorously exclaimed, O0 gobernador, come sta los calderas? co- bras 1-coppers, I mean." , Ah, agua, agua!" he replied, in manifest agony, as he cast his gaze, in the greatest surprise and dismay, around the Flirt's cabin. "Steward! Cmesar!" yelled the captain, "bring the governor a goblet of water, to scald his stomach, for he's swallowed a hair of his tooth brush, and if I'm not terribly mistaken, the entire handle with it." At this epoch, his guest gave indications of being un- well; and Hazy, springing to his feet, opened the pantry door, and flinging the nosegay into his domestic's face, exclaimed, "Quick, you discolored African, or the gov- ernor will die on our hands." Water, together with other renovating stimulants, was soon procured and applied; after which, the ro- tund, elderly individual was carefully buckled out of the berth, and shouldered to the upper deck. During this performance, Commander Hazy laughed with his "Iungs military," until I thought he would end in con- vulsions, before he could recover breath to converse with me. A.   . ."    TALES FOR- THE MARINES,      245 "Capital fun! he's the ouvidor of the province; but I'm sorry to say, for the sobriety of his order, that he has allowed his fine genius to become a little muddy and leesy, owing to overdosing his system with a mild decoction of punch I brewed last night from:-green tea, sugar, and rum. He came on board officially, I recol- lect, to consult me on important business; but he soon forgot his mission, and the last I remember of him, he was spinning round like a teetotum with that vinegar villain Makeen." By this time Hazy had resumed his every-day rig of undress jacket and white trousers;, then, giving his glossy locks a rakish curl, he winked at himself with complacency in the glass; took down a bunch of faded flowers from the corner of the mirror, where it had been secured by a large, double pronged hair pin; held it gingerly and sportively, on one finger, towards me, and thus discoursed : - "Virgil, my young Epsom, who, it seems to me, was much better fitted to plough -the land than the salt bil- lows, tells us that, in his day, weary mariners, after long voyages of perhaps a week's duration in the Mediter- ranean, were wont, upon arriving in port, to decorate their ships with garlands.*  What particular style of vegetable matter these garlands were composed of, I am at a loss to conjecture ; I incline, however, to sea-weed * "Ceu pressre, quum jam portum tetigere carinue, Puppibus et laeti naut;e imposuere coronas." - Georgio. I. 21*   246      TALES FOR THE MARINES. or hemp--and so, also, that amateur mariner, Ovid, observes, with considerable thankfulness,- 'Now to our port we are arrived; bring down The jolly wreath, our weary bark to crown.' And thus, in emulation of those antiquities, I always make a passion of surrounding myself with all such souvenirs of hope or affection. Why, I've that cocked' hat box, there, so full of locks of hair, of every hue and length, many of them    false ones too,-I mean of course the hearts, not the hair, of the bewitch- ing creatures,--that there is no longer room for my hat. I am  hesitating whether to devote them  to be fashioned into a quantity of bracelets, or for a pillow to dream upon; for you know," he added, heroically, "' Fair tresses man's imperial race insnare, And beauty draws as with a single hair.' Meanwhile, let's have breakfast. "Steward! boy! where's{ that Caesar?" he exclaimed, jerking the bell rope violently; when in burst a laugh- ing-eyed little cuffee, as black and shining as his mas- ter's varnished boots, with the comb still sticking in his wool, together with some remnants of the chicken 'salad, The little lump of jet -stood before the captain, put on an air of exceeding gravity, folded his arms, and in a sepulchral voice began --"Imperial Caesar," - here he   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      247 hesitated, - "Dead," said the captain, - dead, him turn to clay, and 'top de hole to keep de wine away." , Cease," broke in Hazy; C" let there be fruits, the orange, the avocato, the fig, the cheramoya, if there be any in the empire, the sugar banana, melons, and the pine. Vanish-!" Imperial Caesar passed away like a cloud before a hurricane, when his master turned to me with, "Youngster, I am dying to hear your adventures; but I never feel tip top in the early morning until I have eaten of the delicious fruits of these climes; for as the Spaniard will tell you, they be gold in the morn. ing, silter t noon, and lead at night- regular bullets, in fact." The steward presently appeared, and swept off the gages d'amour from the table into a knife box. He then laid a cloth, and distributing piles of fruit upon it, the commander fell to and tried his prowess upon a variety of the tempting, luscious delicacies around. He then rubbed the half of a lime over his teeth, used the pulpy rind of a melon by way of nail brush, immersed his face and hands in water, rubbed himself dry with a nap- kin, and starting up, stamped his foot, placed his cap jantily on one side of his head, whistled deep down his chest, and asked me to ascend with him to the upper regions. The brig had been:put in thorough order,-the guns were run out in their ports, the decks white and dry, the ropes neatly flemished down in flat nests of circles,   248     TALES FOR THE MARINES. the crew in their tidy white frocks and trousers, and nothing was visible to recall the gayeties of the preced- ing night.  I paced up and down the quarter deck for some time, hearing and relating the news of the past six or seven months, when a boat pulled alongside from the guarda-costa anchored near, and a shabbily dressed Brazilian reefer, guardians of the sea, as they call them- selves, came over the side, and presented a great, square, official-looking document to Commander Hazy. "I say," said this latter personage, while regarding the contents of the paper through his eye glass a you read Portuguese; tell me what all this means; am I to fight or marry, or both? It's a direct demand, a l'outrance from the governor, I think." I took the letter, and found that it was a polite re- quest from the ouvidor, - the captain's friend, - for a personal interview at the communal upon some topic not mentioned in the cartel. "O, certainly!" ejaculated Hazy; "come with all the gusto in the mundo! perhaps his daughter won't have me, though; never mind. Heaven only knows what fate I'm reserved for; but I'm on a dead lee shore now." Meanwhile he volunteered to accompany me to take a sad farewell of the padron and his charming family. The ' Rake" was piped away, the name of the Flirt's gig., and when manned, the commander desired his exec-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      249 utive officer, in case he did not return on board precisely at midnight, to regard him as married, to fire minute guns until daylight, and then to blow the brig up with all hands. In a few minutes we were tramping through the hot streets to the house where our friends were staying. We met the jolly padron at the doorway, and the meet- ing with Hazy was excessively cordial. They first flew into each other's arms, and, similar to a pair of amorous loggerhead turtles with their flippers, gently patted one another on the back. Then they gave a simultaneous shout of joy; disengaging themselves a moment, and re- garding each other pleasantly, they rushed again to an embrace, Hazy ejaculating, , Too much pleasure for one day, by Jove!" while the padron laughed and shouted, "Damme, if you ain't alive and sober yet." As their feelings calmed down- to a long -series of hand shakings, after giving vent to their sentiments, the light rustle of ladies' dresses was heard in the corridor; and at the moment appeared the comely excellent matron, marshalling her fair dongellas. Commander Hazy's sal- utation, though  not marked by the same warmth or hilarity as to the padron, was still quite as. impressive. "Madam," he said, taking the mamma by the fingers, and bowing at the same time deprecatingly to the girls, "you  behold one who has borne  your image in his inmost heart for many long and tedious months. Noth- ing but the fond hope of again beholding you, and the   250      TALES FOR THE MARINES. delight experienced in remarking that the delicate pt- dron, your husband, is not in robust health, has induced him to continue on life's dreary pilgrimage." Then turning to the young ladies, he continued, "I trust I am to have the felicity of conveying you all on board my ship to St. Catharine's: accommodations on a stu- pendous scale; cabins fitted in the most gorgeous style; music and dancing every evening, and private theatricals in the morning; for to gratify your taste for the legiti- mate drama, I have procured at great trouble and enormous expense an African prince, now in disguise, who recites Shakspeare like an angel; that is, if there ever was an angel so much tanned by celestial fires as my prince." The ladies made suitable acknowledgments for these courtesies, and regretting they could not all accept the proffered hospitality, withdrew and left the commander to confer with the padron. "I'm glad to find you in Santos, Hazy, for there's a pack of rascally fellows in this neighborhood, who have been plundering and cheating the whole coast from Rio here. They have a ship load of counterfeit copper, and barter it away for rum, castor oil, mandioca, coffee, sugar, or what not, giving such high prices that thus far they have found ,no lack of customers. Now, as I have been robbed of some thousands of arrobas of sugar, and believe that some of you Yankees have introduced the traffic, I want your assistance to entrap the villains."   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      251 "Certainly," replied Hazy. ' I'm your man; do every thing by proper requisition from authorities, you sabe, if to put down any thing against bonos mores; but while I think of it, I am desired to make a visit upon the ouvidor this morning, about marrying his daughter, I believe; so come along and witness the compact." "Ay! Why, man, I gave the information about my business not two hours ago, and it's upon that matter he wants to see you." Upon their return I gathered that the negotiation had been conducted in' due form, and moreover, the smaller vessel of the smugglers had already been seen off the coast, only waiting for a wind to come into the river and anchor. It was arranged that the troop of militia, who were hourly expected, should take up their quarters at the old fort, and that one of the boats from the Flirt should seize the vessel, while the honest traders were in. the act of making their purchases on shore. Two days we waited very patiently, the Flirt get- ting ready for sea. Meanwhile, the ouvidor sent a message to say, that the schooner had arrived with a very few hands, the owners had communicated with the town, passed the Alfandega as a coaster coming for a cargo of produce, and a quantity of coffee and sugar sirup was to be delivered, the next day but one, at the landing near the anchorage. That night the brig of war got under way, with a light air and her boats towing ahead. Before daylight she had dropped down to the   252      TALES FOR THE MARINES. mouth of the inlet, and let go an anchor outside the smug- gler. The latter vessel was simply a heavy-built coast- ing drogher, with fore and aft rig, and considerable capacity for stowage. In the morning we saw a quan- tity of articles hoisted on board - bags, pipas, and hides. We noticed also with the spy glass, that she had some eight or ten hands, and a woman in a man's hat, who seemed to bear a prominent part in the work going on. In the evening, about ten o'clock, while I was sitting on the -taffrail of the Flirt, listening to the fun and badinage between the padron and the commander, a yawl boat passed near -us, steering for a small pulperia near the beach, where lights were twinkling. From a word or two spoken by the sitters, I thought I detected some- thing familiar in the sound, though I could hardly tell why. In a moment, however, a glimmering sus- picion began to dawn upon me, that the miscreants whom I had seen in the crimping house at Rio might be in some manner mixed up with these smugglers. I recalled also' the conversation I had overheard relative to the proposition made to Lowther concerning spurious coin; but as the matter had been received with great dis- dain, and as it had been ascertained afterwards that he and his brutal friends had been encountered journeying far into the interior, it was not altogether probable that they would again so soon show their faces so far south. Nevertheless, I made known my suspicions to Hazy. "Very well," said he; " let's get into the gig, douce- ,'   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      253 ment, by and by, so as not to alarm them, and g d on shore and take a peep at their quality."  The gig was lying,at the swinging boom, and Makeen, who was midshipman of the watch, got her alongside. Imperial Caesar was then summoned, who, by the way, was never permitted to sleep at night, and with a bun- dle of cigars we tumbled into the boat, and quietly shoved off. We had about a half a mile to row, and then landed a little below the pulperia. We secured the boat, and leaving her to be protected by the little cuffy, we walked along the shingly beach until we came to the drogher's yawl. Her painter had been made fast to a large stone lying on the strand, and there appeared to be no person in her. On approaching her bow, however, we saw a boy, about fifteen years old, lying sound asleep in the bottom. At the padron's request we moved away,.while he aroused the lad, and learned that the skipper of the coaster and two companions had walked over towards Santos, a distance of about two- miles by land, though by following the wide bends of the river, it was four times that measure by water. They were to return, so said the boy, in a couple of hours, and have supper at the pulperia. All this the padron squeezed out under the plea that he had some sugar to send on board the schooner. At this juncture we heard a great cackling- of fowls and turkeys at the huts near by, and on pre-   254     TALES FOR THE MARINES. ience of buying a bottle of kesash, we knocked at the low door of the grog shop. "Entre vmnce," said a harsh voice from within; and pushing open the rickety portal, we entered a square, unplastered enclosure, with a counter on one side, where -were ranged a few bottles of aguardiente on the back shelves, with a lot of small tumblers in the foreground, while around the walls were strung bunches of onions, strings of garlic, and other delicacies in the way of dried fish, jerked beef, and so forth. An old, toothless wonian, of about sixty-five summers, received us with a sharp nasal croak of "Que he isso?" The padron stated our business, and requested to know if there was any thing to eat. On glancing stealthily at the uniforms of the commander and his subs, Makeen and myself, she assumed a very close air, and told us ,there was nothing but bread and cheese. "What are all those fowls fluttering for?" put in the padron, while we could see a bright blazing fire, gleam- ing through the up and down palings of the cozinha beyond, and also a long table laid with common delft plates and other things, in a large room adjoining. 6 Que cousa vossa-merce?" she inquired, when the padron repeated his interrogation, 'c Bah! que te im- porta, meteivos ao redor." "None of your business; be off! tack ship!"I was all the satisfaction we got. We made good our excuse, however, by purchasing a bottle of vile liquor, and went away convinced that   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       255 there was nothing of consequence to be gained in the way of information from that lady. We again emerged upon the clear white beach, where the water of. the river was rippling with a low, tinkling wash against the pebbles, when, "What the deuse is that noise?" suddenly exclaimed Hazy to the padron, as we heard a sharp splash on the water, as if a broad plank had been dashed with great force upon the sur- face, followed by moaning, wheetling cries, like coarse files grating together. "You'll find out," said the padron, laughing, ," should you chance to. get too near one of those half-dried .mo- rasses in that jungle; for this is the love-making, season of the caymans, and one of them would think  nothing of taking such a  ripe cherry as you at a single bite. Just hear the gentle creatures serenading each other," he continued, as crash after crash, and plaintive wails like. those of human beings, came up out of the steaming heat in the dense thickets of mangles. We  could hear distinctly the snapping  of their heavy jaws, and the rasping of their coarse sides as they rubbed one against the other. "Why, Hazy, I've known    those fresh water lagoons, in the dry season, so crowded with alligators, many of them over twenty feet long, that nothing was to be seen in certain places but their great scaly backs above the water. When laying their eggs, it is dangerous -to go within a   hundred yards of their hot, rush-built nests,   256'     TALES FOR THE MARINES. so mind your toes, and steer clear of the red monsters in particular." It was a fine night; so we took a swim in the river, and waited a long time; but as there appeared no imme- diate prospect of the men belonging to the schooner coming back,--"And even if they do," said the padron, "it won't set us ahead any, for we shall certainly, have their copper-bottomed bark fast on the morrow,"--the commander determined to go on board again. I felt so curious, however, I asked leave to stay, and Mak joined me; which Hazy granted, telling us that in case we wished to get on board the brig before day- light, we must walk along abreast the vessel and hail. With this understanding, they waked the Roman em- peror, and shoved off for the Flirt. My friend and I, accordingly, threw ourselves at full length on the sand, in. the warm night, chatting away the hours, until by some fatality we fell sdund asleep. We were aroused by the sound of voices passing ap- parently quite near to us. Raising myself on an elbow and fetching Mak a kick, we both saw, passing over the ridge of shingle, a party of six or eight persons, who were laughing and talking in great glee. We watched them until they entered the pulperia, where the lights were yet burning, and where there still seemed every indication of a feast. For some minutes there were several persons running in and out of the build- ings; but in a short space they all seemed to have hived   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      257 in the main hut; so, picking ourselves up we cautiously approached. It was a good quarter of an hour before we could get within ear shot, or find an aperture in the cane and mud constructed house, to hear and see what was going on within. My friend Mak got the first squint, and was so tickled, inwardly, by what he beheld, that -no per- suasions of mine could induce him to retire. At last, however, he fell back, and whispered in my ear, " It's the most extraordinary anatomical collection I ever yet saw for nothing outside a museum! Take a peep." I lost no time, and through the angle of the building, where the sides had been imperfectly joined, I looked in. One rapid glance was all I needed, and turning round to Mak  with my blood boiling like pitch, I said, "Give me one of your pistols for a second." At the same time I put my arms around his waist, and had nearly grasped the -handles of the brace -in. his belt, when he arrested the movement, and tugging me a little way off, to the edge of the thicket, he demanded,  Why, what at devil you are! What's the matter?"  "Give me those weapons," I repeated, " or I'll'- Here I made another snatch, but evading me as before, he retreated still farther-along the bank of the river, where I followed him; and then, though nearly beside myself with passion, Mak succeeded in keeping me ??:      22*                        25,8     TALES FOR THE MARINES. quiet, and thus arriving at a proper understanding of the causes which had produced my excitement. I need not tell you at this particular moment what I had seen, but merely that after considerable argument and entreaty, I pledged myself to be prudent, and so induced my companion to lend me his pistols, while he went down abreast the brig, to make a report to the commander. I presumed that a requisition would be made for the services of the sojers at the fort, backed by the boats of the Flirt. All this I felt assured would occupy a full hour to carry into execution, and I was so fearful lest something might arise to mar the plan, that I could hardly resist the temptation of beginning the war myself. As my companion leaped away along the '.beach, I stole back to the cane hut. There were eight persons seated at a long, narrow table. Five of them were evidently Brazilians, and from their respectable appearance and dress, I took them to be factors, who had accompanied the smuggler's people to dispose of produce. But the trio of worthies who fascinated me was the Yankee villain Spiiuke, Maltese Joe, and the sinister face of Mag Surf herself. This last-named wretch sat at the head of the board; and when I first looked in upon them, she was pledging a measure of liquor to the lank Yankee, saying, as she did so, in polite slang, "I looks to-wards ye, Beauty." To which he replied, "I has your eye, marm; " while, at the same time, the swarthy Maltese grinned, showedl   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      259 his single tusk, and poured out a few drops of the same fluid from a brown stone jug at hand, for his own pri- vate refreshment. " What doos them fellers agree on, Miss Maggaret," drawled out Spuke to his fair partner, after she had been for a space rattling on fluently in Portuguese to the na- tives at the farther end of the table, while his own green, dilating, wicked holes of eyes were keeping time to a movement of his pointed ears, as he tried to divine the lingo, and comprehend all about the talk. CC They're not going to git eout of the bargain, be they? By gosh! I'll gin some on 'em a dose if they thinks to luff to wind'ard of one o' the Spuke family." "Hush that wapperjaw, will ye?" said Mag. "They haven't any thoughts of getting off; in fact they want to sell more than the schooner'll-hold." "Wal, go ahead, Miss Maggaret," returned the wily rascal, as he seemed satisfied that money was to be mate ; " but don't be too gin'rous with them gingerbread col- ored chaps. We pays down in hard chink, yer know, bootiful coin, fresh from the Connecticut mint, wiih a picter of the world surrounded by grass and roses on one side, and heaps of stars and the emperor's name on t'other, a thousand eighty-ray pieces in a bag, and no charge fur the bag."  Here he sniggered in an excess of glee, and snapped his middle finger and thumb on the head of the Maltese with so sharp a rap, that it made him start and scowl in deep disgust.   260      TALES FOR THE MARINES. Mag was attired in a man's coarse straw hat, shirt, and a loose, brown linen jacket over the skirts of her dress. She still had the same malevolent squint, with inflamed-tipped nose and cheek bones; but her jaw seemed to move out of its natural hinge, as it were, and her enunciation was not so intelligible, though the tones were equally shrill and harsh, as when I last heard her benevolent wishes expressed to Lowther con- cerning my throat. The long Elnathan Spuke was in the same rig as on our first acquaintance, with the addition of a blue swal- low-tailed coat, with bright brass buttons, secured by one button around his mahogany-tinted neck, so that the sleeves and skirts hung down his back, leaving his bony arms free. Before him lay a piece of coarse paper, on which he was casting up accounts by the aid of a thick pencil, wetting it every time he made a mark. The Maltese seemed to have an eye also to the nego- tiations, but employed his faculties chiefly on a long, black cigar. The conversation betwixt Mag and the Brazilians was long and earnest, and the price to be paid -for each arroba of sugar, pipa of rum, alqueire or quintal of one stuff or another, rice, maize, or coffee, was discussed, bargained for, anid noted down by the shrewd Yankee. The boats with the articles were, I understood, to be down the river soon' after sunrise, and the money, at a stipulated price, was to be paid, as Spuke observed, in "hard chink." But not apparently k\   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      261 contented with the purchases already made, he, with the assistance of the woman, induced the natives to sell two or three heavy gold rings and silver suspender buckles they had about them; and he finally managed to exchange off a ponderous watch and chain-- which even to my inexperienced eyes appeared to be a jap- anned or bogus contrivance -for a respectable silver af- fair, and some other trinkets to boot; Spuke remarking, with a chuckle, that the "f dingy flat hadn't much expe- rience in the swoppin line of business." Mag, during all these proceedings, sipped her favorite beverage with unremitting assiduity, which practice, however, had only the effect of heightening the ruby color of her high cheek bones, leaving her voice and energies under as complete control as ever. When the trade had been settled, and the bargains conclusively struck, Spuke pulled a heavy jackknife from his pocket, and rapping smartly on the table, the summons was answered by the old beldam  who kept the pulperia, with, - "Que dizeis vos?" -What's your will? "Bring along the supper," said Mag, "' for I haven't had a full mouthful of wittals since I left Sebastin." Presently the old vixen, followed by a negro girl, re- turned with a great glazed earthen platter, filled with a stew of fowls, sausages, garlic, and onions, and having shied a heap of flat, black loaves of bread about the table, the party fell to. The factors, however, did -not join in   262      TALES FOR THE MARINES. the feast, and merely laid their heads together at one end of the board, puffed paper cigars, and talked over their bargains with much satisfaction. In all that had passed no one can know what an itch- ing I felt for levelling a pistol at the female devil, who sat within ten feet of me; but I restrained my passion, and counted the seconds until the sojers could come from the fort and seize the whole party, as I felt convinced that Hazy could not assume the re- sponsibility of landing a force for this purpose from the Flirt, The meal seemed to progress with pleasure to all. The Yankee did the polite to his sweetheart by helping her bountifully to the steaming mess, chuckling the while in glee at the success of his visit to Santos. "By gad!" he sputtered, with the thigh of a fowl between his sharp teeth, c there's nery a- knife with a wooden handle that kin carve this feller. His grand- feyther must hev ben an admiral or an ostrich, he's so darned tough; not nigh so nice as oysters on the half shell, with the trimmins, that 'Lias and me used to swaller tu hum. Wal, I wonder now," he went on, "how cousin 'Lias Nash gits on aboard the polaker. He'll be tarnation pleased to hear what specs we've made in these diggins; but 'Lias is smashin cute; great inventin genoos too." "Why, what did that psalm-singin swab ever in- vent?" inquired Mag, with a semblance of curiosity.   TALES FOR THE MARINES. O     263 "Ony glue combs and Injy rubby doll babies; but he was in the manafactery where they made the eight-and- forty-bladedpenknives, with the bootjack, wooden clock, and corkscrey attachmint, all on 'em fitted in a case soo- tible fur the weskit pockut." "O, he did!" said the virago. "And why didn't he sarve his time out when once at the business?" "Wal, consarn him, the fact is, his genoos induced him to go inter the indelibel markin ink company; and when he was a tryin experiments with that flooid, he happened to light on an antidote, as-he-called it, which took the stains out in no time. So one day he made a mistake, and rubbed off some one's writin on a sheet of paper, and put "in the place an idee of his own. That air mistake smashed him slick up, and consigned him to the state prison. Wal, there he was so smart, they sot him tu work in the winder blind transparency fixins, until one day, 'Lias was so orful cute he jist painted his own clothes like the overseer's, and walked right out o' the gates as slick as grease." f"And after that," broke in Mag, "I s'pose he fell in with you, and agreed to try his genus at the copper busi- ness in furrin parts." "Very remakkable, Miss Maggaret. I lie like snakes if it warn't jest so; but I wonder what he's abeout now," added Spuke, reflectively.'  "O, you let that Nash cove alone. He's a gallivant- in with the gals at Ilha -Grande by this time, and   264     TALES FOR THE MARINES. p'haps inventin a hoven to bake moonshine in; but iat all events he'll look out for the polacre - never fear." ;Sartin, Miss Maggaret. You talks like a book; but 'Lias hain't got no monop'ly to court the senoritas, all by hisself, yu know; for he couldn't win yer affec- tions when Elnathan Spuke jumped inter the ring." Here the lanky bundle of bones seemed overjoyed at his extraordinary prowess in the court of Cupid, and could not resist the impulse of craning his turtle head over towards Mag, and pinching her on the chin, as he imprinted a smack with his puckered mouth on her parchment lips. With a howl of pain the hag started back, and giv- ing her ardent lover a fierce lick on his face with her -skinny fist, she yelled,- "You infarnal codfish-finned Yankee, don't you know that my broken jaw isn't cured yet? O! O! you brute!" Here the woman writhed 'in anguish, and refused to be comforted, until she had washed her mouth several times from the contents of the jug at her elbow. The Yankee, who at first did not appear disposed to rest qui- escent under the blow inflicted on his face, at last re- sumed, with,- "Gosh! Miss Maggaret, don't git riled. I didn't go to du it. I oughter hev known yer jaw was tender yit, arter rollin down them steep starrs." "Rolling down, you bear! I was flung head fore-   TALES FOR TRE MARINES.      265 most full thirty feet by that half white-faced nigger countryman of yourn." "Yis, sartin; that nig was a hull team and a bull dog under the waggin. I wouldn't mind tryin' to trade him off to a Red River planter on the Levee at Orleens. He'd fetch a big price." "And I," screamed the hag, " would sink every ounce of money, good and bad, we've got, for one fair clip at his throat with this sharp bit of iron here," exhibit- ing, as she uttered these unselfish views, a long and mur- derous knife from the breast of her jacket. The Maltese and Spuke only laughed, while the Bra- zilians at the other end -of the table looked a little sur- prised at the excitement displayed by-their companions. It soon passed away, however, and the Yankee once more drawled out in his usual nasal whine,- "Wal, we ain't heern much of late abeout the other chaps and the gal, though I'm allfired glad they didn't take stock in the ventur of the coin. I wonder where they air by this time." ,c Why, they're with that Jezebel, Loo O'Neil - gone up to the north, dam 'eni, to rob somebody, p'haps, and then try their luck in Mexico or the States, where they ain't much known." By this time the platter of C" chickin fixins," as Mr. Spuke called it, was pretty well exhausted, and it seemed to me a year since they commenced eating, -though probably they had hot been at work an houlr. 23   2665     .TALES FOR THE MARINES. The gray light of dawn had already spread itself over the eastern sky, and I detected the sound of oars dipping in the water. This gave me the hope that a message had been sent to the fort, and that a force would soon come to arrest the party. I was beginning to feel con- cerned, too, lest some unfortunate accident might ple- vent the expedition, or that the smuggler's people should be disposed to leave the pulperia beforehand. In that case, I resolved to shoot Mag Surf as dead as lead could kill her, and take my chance of crippling Mr. Spuke the moment after. My doubts as to their de- parture were soon dispelled, for the woman declared she would take a wink of sleep until sunrise, after the ex- ample of the natives, who, their cigar fires extinguished, were snoring away with their heads on the table. The Yankee persisted to the last in striving to keep the Maltese in talk, saying, "Merlatty, what's that little brig-o'-war a-doin' here? She's a States man-o'-war, ain't she? If you behave, I'll take yer aboard in the mornin' to show her tu ye." As this kind offer elicited no reply from the Maltese, Mr, Spuke, after taking a glance at his own features, and slicking his hair, in his portable mirror, stretched his long bones on the bench, and dozed off with his friends. No sooner had I observed this than I turned to look about me, and to my great delight saw the visages of Hazy, the padron, and a couple of sailors peeping from   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      267 the thicket of mangles, while nearer, crawling along the sand, was my friend -Miakeen on his way to attract my attention. I immediately joined the Flirt's party, and retiring with them into the brake, related what I had just witnessed and heard. " So you're sure, youngster, that you are not mis-  taken?" "Sure!" I swore; "ay, just as sure as that I had half a dozen knife stabs through the instigation of Mag Surf and her villanous crew." "Well, boy," exclaimed the padron, "the vendetta is declared, and I'll either bring them to jstice or make my wife a widow for Hazy here." "O, to the devil with justice!" squeaked out Mak in my lug. "; I'm going to scale a pistol at one of -them, any way; so now, Gringo, give us one. You take the woman, and I'll let drive at the man." I handed him the weapon, and then listened to the arrangements which had been made for capturing our prey. The soldiers, nine in all, (the drummers and a few others being considered non-combatants,) had already landed some distance up the beach - that number being thought, in fair combat, equal to the capture of three persons. The brig's cutter was lying behind the bluff point below the fort, and had orders to take a custom house official on boardi the schooner the moment it was positively ascertained that the owners were trading with false coin. ,   268     TALES FOR THE MARINES. We were soon joined by the officer in charge of the troops,--no other than my potato-built rival in the affections of Antonietta, - who agreed to conceal his men until the boats with the produce should reach the landing near the pulperia from the town, and then to pounce upon all hands. These arrangements having been made for the brigade, the rest of us remained hid- den in the bushes until the red beams of the sun had mounted above the hills, and- the gnats and mosquitos were becoming very troublesome. "Hark!" whispered Mak; " here come the boats; " and directly we heard the chants of the negro oarsmen, as the barges rounded the bend of the river, coming slowly down the stream, while the creaking of the oars in their hide grummets was audible also. In a few minutes we caught sight of the lighters, piled up above the gunwales with casks and sacks, and the songs of the boatmen rose higher and higher as they neared their destination. They sagged sluggishy alongside the little stone pier, near where the tub-shaped yawl of the drogher was still moored; but though the negroes chattered and laughed like magpies, no one was dis- turbed in the cane huts. "O1a, vamnos!" shouted a person from  the stern sheets, who appeared to think himself white. "Ve, olha! que tendes! O, maldito, senhores!'" This dis- jointed harangue was addressed partially to the' beach and the rest to the sleeping boat keeper of the schooner's   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      Q69 yawl. Both having failed, however, to return any reply, he very coolly dipped his palm leaf hat into the water and poured the element upon the boy's head. This restored the dingy youth to consciousness; and after a few kicks and hard words, he was despatched to the pulperia to notify the factors that their properlty had ar- rived. In a brief space the boy had entered the huts, where a dim lamp was still burning; and soon after, one by one, the occupants came out, yawning and stretching as the human species will when awakened   too early in the morning.  The  Yankee  came last; and though he yawned like the rest, and snarled out something about his being " pesky sleepy," he didn't stretch, he being to all intents and purposes long enough already. "Now, Maltee," he drawled, , tell them yaller fellers you'll go off to the fore-and-after, bring the money ashore, take ther receipts all fair and square, when ther lighters kin go off alongside and discharge like a thou- sand of brick." The Maltese smiled in acquiescence, so as- to exhibit the single tusk left of his head rails, and then stepping into the yawl, took a scull and wiggled out to the schooner. There, with the assistance of two or three pair of hands, sacks of a heavy weight were lowered into the boat, and she returned to the landing. Meanwhile the factors had partaken of coffee or cocoa from a reser- voir of that beverage boiled in an earthen pot, lighted 23*   270     TALES FOR THE MARINES. their cigars, and were blowing small clouds to drive off the morning dew and insects. Mag had seated herself on the vertebrae of a whale or some large bone of a deep sea fish, and with her playmate and bosom gin jug corn- panion on the sand before her, she was exchanging a little Portuguese billingsgate with the venerable female who swayed the fortunes of the pulperia; in which ele- gant vituperation the former seemed to have, by way of novelty, found her match. Mr. Spuke at this epoch was busy on a little tour of inspection around the cargoes of the lighters, punching his steel-like knuckles into the sacks of sugar, dipping his claws of fingers into the bung holes of the pipas of rum to test the strength by sucking his digits after- wards, then smelling pinches and handfuls of coffee berries, in all which business pursuits he appeared quite at home. Upon his own boat coming on shore again with his copper treasure, he joined the Maltese, and. with the assistance of the boy and the black oarsman, the bags were carried up about fifty yards on the beach, mid- way between the water and the cane huts. This was no sooner effected than a signal was given to the cornet, and down from their concealment in the bushes ran the squad of sojers, while the fat officer, rushing up, laid his hand on the blue coat with bright brass buttons, which hung over the back of Mr. Spuke. This was the first intimation that individual had of the ambuscade; but, jerking himself free, he exclaimed, -   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       271 " By spikes ! what on airth air yu abeout ? 'I The suddenness and violence of the movement nearly twitched the officer off his legs'. When Mr. Spuke glanced round, and beheld the militia, with their bayonets, at a charge, he seemed to recover himself at once; and striding over the sacks of metal, with his legs wide apart, he said,- ccWal, ye darn'd Portingees, what air ye up tu ? This here is my property, and ther custom-house per- mits is right and reg'lar - ask them  dons theer-all honist folks -no idee on gittin quit of payin the fees." Here he beckoned to the factors, who, with Mag, came to the spot ;and there they stood, in a lump, just as the cutter of the Flirt was dashing alongside of the schooner. I could not have stood it any longer; but just then Hazy exclaimed, " Now, my friends, it is our turn!" while the padron roared out, in Portuguese, 1" Seize or shoot down those villains, if they stir an inch. I arrest them for smuggling counterfeit coin." And I screamed to Mag, "Yes, you hag, and I've an account to settle with you for the affair in that den in Rio." The Maltese was the first who made a bolt; but he' had not moved a yard before Hazy's cockswain, Harry- Greenfield, fetched him a tap with the gig's brass tiller, which laid him out, as meek as milk, --on the strand. When the combination burst with its real force upon Spuke and his female companion, the latter squinted furtively around, to see, perhaps, if a chance for escape   272      TALES FOR THE MARINES. presented itself; but observing all retreat cut off, her ugly mug began to assume a pale-blue, ashes-of-roses hue; and she put her hand in her bosom and partially exposed her tapering knife. ," Drop that, you piratical she devil, or- I'll --" She must have looked full into the muzzle of the big- mouthed ship's pistol I pointed at her, before she re- moved her hand from the weapon;- and then only to carry the gin jug to her hideous mouth; but she did not utter a word. Not so, however, with Mr. Spuke ; he saw the game was up, and that not only his vessel was seized, and his liberty about to be cramped for an indef- inite period, but, worse than all, he was to lose all his hard-earned gains. Taking up the words as they were uttered by the padron, and losing all his drawly, nasal twang, he said, in a cold, deliberate tone,- "O, ho! there's been spyin goin on, and I'm to be robbed, eh? Now, I'm an Ameriken, clear grit! and you, dam yer, my countryman," shaking his hand aloft at Hazy, " air standin by to see me imposed upon by these cussed merlatters, when it's your dooty to pertect me. But, by spikes! let me see the first feller as 'll ris his finger jint to seize Elnathan Spuke." With this, he bared his great slabs of arms to the shoulders; and there he stood, a powerful, towering giant,-glaring with the wrinkled, compressed- lips, open nostril, and fierce, cunning eye of a tiger, ready for a spring.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      273 , Arrest him, soldiers!"' shouted the now. excited padron; and the cornet drew his sword. Before, how- ever, the blade was well out of its sheath, the fellow at bay gave him a tremendous kick in the stomach, which sent him. fairly spinning up off the sand; and then he fell with a groan, completely hors' de combat. At the moment the soldiers, who, as I told you, seemed by no means veterans in war, advanced, with fixed bayonets, upon the smuggler. Evading the first two men, he gave a sudden bound, grasped the musket by the muz- zle from the weak arms of one of the puny troop, and, with a deep-muttered imprecation of, ," By the Eternal, let her rip," gave the weapon a half sweep-over his head; and bringing it round, the foremost men went down like grain before a sickle. Recovering himself again, he made the heavy piece whirl on high, and brought it, for the second time, upon the backs of the panic-stricken soldiers; but the flint lock catching some part of their equipments, the cock snapped, the piece flashed, held fire an instant, and then exploded full in the face of the Yankee.. The charge traversed his upper jaw, nose, and one eye, leaving him blinded, and the blackened blood and powder clinging to his mutilated features. He spun round nearly a turn, by the force of the explosion, yet never relaxed his gripe on the muz- zle of the musket, until, with a confused lurch, the breech of the gun touched the sand, and he fell forward with all his weight. The point of the bayonet entered   274     TALES FOR THE MARINES. nearly at his breast bone, and transfixed him to the pipe. He fell over sidewise, and lay a dead man, deluging in blood the sacks of money he had made such desperate efforts to defend. By this time the dismayed soldiers, who had turned tail from the one man, began to fire an irregular feu de joie right in amongst the crowd of us. They were too wild, however, to do much damage; only grazing the ear of one of the factors, and putting a ball into the foot of the Maltese-and a very severe and painful wound he found it. During this skrimmage my attention was, for a moment, diverted from my own especial game; and when I looked again, I saw the hag running like a rat towards the thicket. Makeen fired his pistol at her, but the ball only cut off a twig, and scattered some leaves without touching her. I reserved my shot, and, with a cry that brought the whole assembly, with the exception of the. soldiers, we plunged after Mag. She took the main road, a well-beaten track for mules and beasts, which led from the mouth of the river to the city; and though it wound about here and there, we could still keep her in sight, as she parted the bushes right and left in her flight. Presently, the thick undergrowth gave place to loftier vegetation; and between the trunks of the palms and cocoas we caught glimpses of narrow lagoons be- yond, patched with light-green and white water lilies.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      275 Oh the opposite side, the land rose higher, and the forest was composed of heavy timber. The woman still held on with great speed, and must have known she was running with a noose round her neck, for she never looked behind, or gave heed in the slightest degree to our yells to stop or be shot. There were a number of paths made by cattle, which crossed the road at intervals, and, all at once, Mag turned to the left into one of them. A pair of huge vampire bats rose from a branch with a boding croak; and as the woman leaped over the grass and leaves, one of the factors gave a shout of warning, and- tried to stop me from going farther. Shaking off his grasp, however, I jumped on, with- Mak and Hazy at my heels, into the thicket. In a\minute we had entirely passed the dense foliage, and before us lay the long, narrow lagoon, cra- dled in its black, slimy, muddy banks, while directly through the centre, leading to the opposite shore, was apparently a clear, open bridge, matted and bound with roots, grasses, and rank vegetation of all sorts, with a little clump of bushes and parasitical plants at every few paces, but still showing a green, even road over the water. Mag was about a hundred yards in advance of us, and splashing a short distance into the mud and water, she sprang upon the bending mangrove roots, and, finding that they bore her weight, continued on her course.   276     ,TALES FOR THE MARINES. "Hold!" roared the padron; " gentlemeh,. for God's sake don't go an inch farther!" "O0  cuidado!" screamed the factor.  ' Beware! it is certain death!" cried they, both out of breath. "That witch can't escape ; the mire will prevent her on the other side." At this moment, Mag, perceiving she was no longer pursued, turned aboat, and shaking her knife in one hand, and applying the gin jug to her lips with the other, she took a long pull, and then yelled derisively, - "O, you hounds! you thought to hang me, eh? the hemp isn't planted yet for my throat; and you, ye devil's asp, let me once lay hold upon you, I'll take an oath to find your heart the next time. Adios," she said, as she again applied the jug to her mouth, and hurling it upon the slimy surface .of the pool, wheeled to resume her flight. I am glad to say that this was the last swig of gin and the last intelligible -remarks which Miss Maggaret, as Spuke respectfully styled her, ever uttered in this world. - No sooner had the water been disturbed by the splash of the empty bottle, than we noticed a little succession of rolling, unbroken billows along by the vegetable bridge. The flat, sickly leaves and flowers began to undulate, and as Mag stepped from the green laced, living fabric to a projecting root, we saw the huge, tri   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      2" angular-shaped snout of a red spectacled alligator, and the dull, protruding eyes, with the fringed, scaly crest between, slowly pushed above the water; and then a sharp, rattling snap upon the hard-baked clay of the gin jug. "The cayman!" exclaimed the padron; and as the monster rolled his jaws more out of water, the irregu- lar, reddish, marbled yellow and green spots were visi- ble underneath, before he sank with his prize. . The factor ejaculated, OO! vermelho cayman! " The noise of the breaking gin vessel did not, how- ever, distract the attention of Mag, but as she trod on the elastic mass of the bridge, it yielded, and agitated the pool-with a loud splash. The next moment, as if the impulse had been felt in every direction, the same unbroken undulations as before swelled up-under the greenish, stagnant lagoon, and in less time than it takes to wink, the water broke with a rush upwards, within a few feet of the woman. The enormous mail-clad hide of the cayman appeared; the tail rose with a diagonal motion; and the head, with the distended, serrated jaws, the reddish tongue and yellow mouth inside them, gleamed hot and dry in the beams of, the morning sun; the whole monster forming a curving bend of full twenty feet before and behind the now terrified hag. At the same instant the hard, flexile tail made a side sweep, quick as thought, which, stariking Mag a crushing blow about her waist, doubled her up with a broken back, and she 24   278     TALES FOR THE MAlNii. M was swept into the frightful jaws, open to full stretch, and inclined sideways to receive the prey. Simultane- ously with our groans of horror, the heretofore quiet pool was all alive with the projecting, ridgy bodies of the monsters, and for a few minutes we heard nothing but the violent snapping of their huge jaws, and the blows of their powerful tails. At last the water once more began to settle down into peace; the broad, flat leaves- and stems of the pure -white lilies, which had been torn and crushed by the commotion amongst the denizens below, gradually resumed their beds; and, save a few bubbles, and an occasional undulation, with a strong odor of musk, there was nothing left to show where the hag had met her horrid death. "Come, let's crawl out of this swamp," said the pa- i dron, "or some of those hungry caymans will be after  l having a taste of us." "Well," exclaimed Mak, "I think the beast who ate that female will be troubled with indigestion." With these consolatory remarks we all retraced our steps, as fast as our legs would carry us, to the pulperia. On reaching the cane huts, we found the fat cornet spread out on the table, while several people were chafing his body and limbs with spirits. He had just recovered consciousness after the blow dealt him by the Yankee; The discomfited troops, without their leader, were making the best weather they could, and with a few bad bruises were seated about on the floor; while   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      279 the factors, now fully alive to the bargains they had escaped, were preparing to start with their rum and sugar back to Santos. On going out to the scene of the recent tragedy, we found the Maltese about being carried off to the brig, to have his wounds dressed, while the dead carcass of his companion, surrounded by myriads of insects, lay stark and reeking in blood, where he had fallen beside his base treasure. "Well," soliloquized Hazy, "we'll put him under the sod, for the sake of the flag he was born under, any way." The body was accordingly removed to the oppo- site side of the river, to Manduba Point, where, upon a little craggy mound, beneath the finger-like leaves of a- gaunt palm tree, he was buried, and the great bone which lay near the spot where he was killed was stuck up for his tombstone. That evening, as the sun went down in the soft orange glow of a tropical twilight, I was leaning back in the Rake, with Hazy, the padron, and Archy Ma- keen. The oars dipped in the calm surface of the river, and the silver- drops rained from their blades; as they were thrown forward in regular strokes, while we swept up the stream. "Pleasant evening after the -shower," observed Hazy, anxious, apparently, to make himself- agreeable. "Yes," replied 'the padron, "though I shall feel pleasanter after getting my sugar."   O  *"* TALES FOR THE MARINES. " Well, all in good time we'll overhaul the polacre, perhaps, and make Captain ULias Nash refund." "If you will I'll give you a dinner such as you never ate at Botafogo, and a thousand Havanas such as you never smoked." "Agreed; but s'pose you give us a cheroot now. This starlight and quiet is all very romantic, you know, but in narrow rivers I like to drive away the malaria with a little tobacco smoke. It does not obscure the scenery, and aids the gastric fluid, very much, I am told by the faculty, in performing its office*' Here the yesquero was made to catch a spark, and the cigars were soon in full blast. {' Speaking of cigars," resumed Hazy, "I once lost a small fortune on account of one of them. You see I had got slightly behindhand in my pecuniary depart- ment, and having an uncle in comfortable circumstances, I used occasionally to apply to himt to relieve me from temporary embarrassments, my money market being, as they say on 'change, tight.  Well, I've always main- tained that if one wishes to discover what true friend- ship is, he must try to borrow of his rich relations; and if the man who wrote the book to prove that Adam and Eve spoke High Dutch will only devote his talents- to this question, he will arrive in due time at- some very curious and entertaining results. " Now it so happened that my uncle, though a Vir- ginian, and a cultivator of the weed, abominated the     TALES FOR THE MARINES.      281  smoke, as a butcher is said, by the same token, to faint at the sight of blood ; and in fact the very smell of a lighted cigar made him ill; so you may be sure I was extremely cautious to give him a wide berth, when I cared to indulge in that enjoyment, while on my visits for the purpose of negotiating loans. " One unfortunate evening, however, after the kind old gentleman had consented to fit me out, as usual, for the (last time,' when I was about leaving on a little tour for the watering-places, (here Makeen whispered in my ear, Brandy-and-watering places, he means,') I re- tired to my own room, in a happy frame of mind, and threw myself upon the bed with my book and cigar. I had not, however, finished the second weed, having laid the stump of the first on the candlestick, when -I was seized with an irresistible inclination to hunt for a passage in one of the classic poets, on the shelves of the library. My uncle, I knew, had not retired from his sanctum, as he was a late sitter and riser, for he always averred on this subject, -that, although the ' early bird caught the worm,' yet, nevertheless, the worm was a gr.eat fool for being out. Well, after scrubbing My teeth, and perfuming myself with the choicest extracts, so that I had, as a little gypsy of a cousin of mine ob- served, a strong odor of cologne over an under-current of cigar smoke, I clutched my candlestick, and descend- ed to the library. I soon accomplished my mission, and 24*    TALES FOR THE MARINES* again betook myself to my own quarters; but by some accident I found that I had changed ,candlesticks, mine being a flat sort of an affair, and the one I brought back much taller. I did not give it a second thought, how- ever, and was dreaming away very pleasantly of the fine times I was to have in the gay world, when I was aroused by the most unusual din, that seemed to pervade the whole house, and above all, my uncle's voice, in a towering rage, calling upon the household, and your hum- ble servant among them. ' Where's that scamp Jack ?' I lost not a moment in pulling on my dressing gown, and running down to see what the row was. On open- ing the chamber door, I found my uncle wandering about in his shirt, and looking in every hole and corner, with a light in his hand.  'So ho ! Jack, you have been smoking tobacco in my room, you rascal.' "c' Why, uncle, you know I don't ever use tobacco in any shape.' "' Well,' he replied, ' all I've got to say is, that the whole apartment is filled with a horrid stench of old pipes, and I'll murder the villain who did it. I've been sick as a dog, and haven't slept a wink all night.' Just at this moment my mischievous little cousin, who was sniffing around with her small snub nose, exclaimed, 'Why, uncle, it's an old, nasty stump of a cigar in Jack's candlestick, which must have been standing at your bedside.' - Padron," said Hazy, " I took the early boat in the   morning; but instead of passing one summer at Sara- toga, I passed three of them  on the coast of Africa, smoking without tobacco." The lights from Santos were now visible, as we pulled round the reach of the river; and shortly after the gig ran alongside the water stairs, and off we all, tramped to the residence of the padron's family. " Ladies," said Hazy, " I have brought back the de- serters, and performed prodigies of valor besides, which, were you to hear them, would bring the dew from your eyelids; and I have ended, madam, by coming within three hundred feet of being devoured by crocodiles." " Ah, such tears they would have shed in that case ! said Miss Mary. "c Madam," he resumed, still addressing the sweet matron, " my duty to my country will shortly bear me from these enchanting precincts ; but while I tear myself from the presence of you and Dona Pancha, I hope still to bask in the smiles of the fair damsel beside you, while my bark glides o'er the sea." c( Ah Dios ! how handsome the captain would be if he didn't make such frightful contortions of visage when he uses his eye glass," softly warbled the coquettish lit- tle creole brunette, as she rattled and flirted her fan, in an easy, graceful,,open and shut movement before her brilliant eyes. The commander smiled deprecatingly at this compli- ment, glanced over his shoulder at me, unbuckled his    34     TALES FOR THE MARINES. sword belt, and touching the hilt with the air of Corio- lanus, laid the weapon on the table, and joined the pa- dron in a glass of port. A week passed away, and on the eighth morning the Flirt, with her sails gently filled by the land wind, slowly parted the waters of the river, with her head out to sea; and before the sun had reached, the meridian, she was braced sharp up, with her tacks close down, and sheets flat aft to the sea breeze, beating to the south- ward.  CHAPTER VIII. BEFORE leaving Santos River, a lot of Brazilians, half sailors and half sojers, were taken from the hulk of a guarda-costa lying at the town, and put on board the copper smuggler. This last craft had sailed the day before we did, to act as a decoy duck, in order to catch her heavy consort, the polacre, who, in charge of the acute Elias Nash, was to have joined her on the coast of Paranagua or San Francisco; at least so confessed the smuggler's crew, after they had been severely flagel- lated with thick bamboos and thongs of raw hide--a precautionary measure, which was supposed to have exercised a beneficial effect in aiding their recollec- tion. Maltese Joe had also been transferred from the brig, where his wounds had been skilfully dressed by the surgeon, but with a brain fever; and he was stowed away somewhere in the schooner's hot hold, either to get well or kick the bucket, as Providence might direct in reference to an individual of his virtuous pursuits. The Flirt held the sea breeze well along through the afternoon, until, as the approaching vermilion glow of sunset began to flood the western horizon, the breeze (285)  286     TALES FOR THE MARINES. puffed up strong for a few minutes, then the waves swished over by the weight of their own crests, the sails slackened the strain on the yards and ropes, and fell listlessly down the masts. "Come from the conn," said the officer in charge of the watch to the quarter master in the weather quarter boat; "there'll be no more use for you up there to- night." Thch, turning to the crew, he continued, "Now, men, up courses and spanker, brail up the jib, and brace the yards abox, ready for any thing. Tell the captain, Mr. Peale," he added, ' that the breeze has left us, and we can see a coasting vessel in shore of us, that looks like the prize taken at Santos." Presently Hazy stepped on deck, assisting up his pretty little passenger, who was a trifle pale and heavy about her large, liquid eyes; while, at the same time, the gallant commander paid the most impressive atten- tion to Jilla, addressing her confidentially in behalf of his imp Caesar, who was supposed to have fallen in love, and down the cabin hatchway, simultaneously, with An- tonietta's dingy handmaiden. While Hazy turned to consult with the officer of the watch concerning the vessel, I supported my qualmish little sweetheart to the signal lockers abaft, and placed a heap of bunting around her head and shoulders. She reclined back, and told me she Was disgusted with all the world, the sea, the captain, Jilla, and me particu- larly, and only wished to be let alone. ("So vaya con   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        287 dios," she concluded, as she pulled a fold of an ensign over her face, and relapsed into silence. She was not the girl to be meddled with, as I knew by experience, when in her little pets of ill humor; and so, after giving strict injunctions to Jilla to watch over her mistress, I made a graceful retreat, and went with Ned Peale, one of the Flirt's reefers, to the forecastle, where we had a cigar between us, and listened to the yarns and songs of the sailors. I was terribly spoony at-. that epoch, and quite in- censed, I remember, at a little, old, squat-built mariner; with a huge- nose, seamed and scarred like the top of a champagne cork, who doled forth, with evident satis- faction, - i"I've a spanking wife at Portsmouth gates, A pygmy at Goree, I've an orange tawny up the Straits, A black at St. Lucie." And so I topped my boom from   the merry circle, just as the fife struck up a jig, and Imperial Caesar began, in his own language, to dance to " de lascivious caperings ob de floot."            ' It was towards ten o'clock when I got aft again, and I found that Hazy had just finished a glass of grog, - he called it lemonade,--and had ordered the gunner, Mr. Ben Bunker, to throw up a few rockets, and burn a blue light or two, to gratify a wish-expressed by An- tonietta.         '          .   288      TALES FOR THE MARINES. I may add here that Mr. Jack Hazy was rather pro- fuse in the expenditure of public pyrotechny. He con- tended that it was designed for use, and he always felt easier in his mind when the last port fire had been burned, there being so much less risk from conflagration to the ship when those inflammable materials were out of the way. "All ready, sir," ,said the gunner, as he stood with a musket at arm's length, the breech resting- on the ham- mock nettings, and a match ready to touch off the rocket, which was sticking in the barrel of the piece. "Up with it, then," said Hazy. Now, whether trusty old Ben Bunker was not much in the habit of shooting off " them dam sky rackets," as he called those engines, or whether he feared to scorch his horny fingers, or shut his eyes at the moment of ignition, is not known. Certain- it was, that as the stem of the rocket began to fizz, he gave the musket a slight depression, and as the fiery missile rose with a hissing roar, it flew with a rush right- through the main- topgallant sail, and exploding just beyond, fell in a con- stellation of stars and showers of sparks, popping and bursting in the Flirt's waist, among the sleeping watch. "Why, you confounded old porpoise, what are you 'about?" exclaimed the commander; while the until now listless young creole sprang up, clapped her hands, and implored Hazy to send some more in the same direction.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      289 "'lPon my soul, you pzcarona, this old bombadier will set fire to the brig; and I wouldn't risk another rocket for all the diamonds in Brazil. Your life is so precious to me!" he added, with an insinuating smile. It was not many hours after this, as I lay coiled up on the deck at Antonietta's feet, with an ensign for a pillow, I was awakened by a hail from the brig of "Boat ahoy!"Directly there came a reply in Portuguese of "Amigo! amigo!" as a small yawl paddled alongside, in the most lubberly manner possible; and the padron of the guarda-costa, who had been put in charge of the smuggling schooner at Santos, came over the gangway. ' Well," said Hazy, who had been dozing and smok- ing about the quarter deck, in the warm  night, "I thought we'd got quit of these Diegos; what do they want now, eh?" After a brief confab, Makeen reported that by some mischance they had lost their reckoning, broken -their compass, and being without instruments, or books, in short utterly ignorant of navigation, they "were all wrong, and wished some one sent to show them the way to Paranagua. "All right," nodded the commander'of the Flirt; ".if any person will volunteer, he cal go for a day or two, since we are bound in the same direction, and it's not a bit out of our course." Ned Peale snapped at the chance, and said it would be the best lark in the world; and drew such an excit- 2                     .   ,290     TALES FOR THE MARINES. ing picture of the jolly times he'd have, playing marine potentate on board the schooner, that the notion took possession of me also, and I asked leave to join him. "Certainly," said Hazy; "delighted to get rid of you; you're in every body's mess, and nobody's watch; but here," he added, kindly, 'tell my steward to give you something to imbibe; and mind you take a fine tooth comb in your kit, for there's no telling what bed- fellows -a benighted traveller may meet with among those sort of people." I told Antonietta I was going to tear myself away for a day or two, perhaps, and then the little beauty all at once hove in stays, --I mean in a coquettish sense,-- and whimpered, and tried to persuade me to renounce -my barbarous design. Nevertheless I was obdurate to all persuasions, and, kissing-her hands, I followed Peale over the side, and we pushed off. "Mind, young   gentlemen," said Hazy, before we left, ," I shall stick the Flirt well out when the sea breeze makes, and you had better work up with the schooner in shore, and I'll stand in and have a look at you towards night." After an hour's pull, we reached the schooner, where she lay rocking and flapping in the calm ocean swell. The first advice Ned Peale gave- the unshorn skipper, as we tumbled over the drogher's rail, was, to lower away his sails, and not to--.say his prayers in- a loud tone -of voice at the morning mass, in case he should perform . ;   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      29 that ceremony afloat. We then lashed the tiller amid- ships, and rolling ourselves up in the slack of the main- sail, went sound to sleep. Owing, however, to some peculiar motion of the vessel, I was the first to awake; and burrowing a holes out from the folds of the canvas, I caught the full blaze of the sun in my eyes. When the blinding dazzle per- mitted me to peer about a bit, I found that the oldl schooner had her nose turned to the northward, and, with a brisk wind off the land, was wallowing along tunder the jib and part of the foresail, .straight back to Santos; and on looking to seawald, I saw the Flirt hull down, creeping away in the opposite direction. "I say, Ned! I cried, '" rouse ott of - that stow hole, and let's make sail, or we'll see Rio before we do Santa Catharina." Upon this, out crawled my companion, and then the pair of us tramped round   the decks, footed up the swarthy, sleeping  natives, and desired the skipper to bring his craft by the wind, and prepare some breakfast. "Filho da puta," grunted   this worthy, addressing the dull vessel he commanded, as he proceeded to strike a light for his paper cigar; when, slowly putting the helm down, he gave orders to hoist the sails. Up   went the dingy, patched old canvas, with the hoops, blocks, and grass ropes cursing the boatswain for grease, with a  noise like,-che-epe---creeke-e-cheepe, --until the gaffs were at the eyes of the rigging, and the   292     TALES FOR THE MARINES. sails fairly spread. -Presently the course was changed, and the vessel retraced her track parallel with the coast. Then we managed to rig a ragged old gafftop- sail for an awning, and after pouring a couple of buckets of brine over our bodies, we repeated our request for breakfast. "Si, senhores! Almopo!" roared the skipper, while the cry was echoed by half a dozen hungry-looking objects around us, and again taken up by a dried, with- ered, frizzled baboon forward, standing by a contrivance of a caboose onii deck. ," Almoco!" shouted they all. At this ebullition the companion way hatch abaft was by a succession of jerks shoved back in the slide, and there gradually appeared at the aperture the nozzle of a flaming red umbrella, then the whole article, followed by a pair of dirty hands clasping a parchment-covered missal, bound with brass straps. Soon after we beheld a broad, flat, black beaver hat, bombazine gown of the same hue, and finally the short, podgy legs of a youth- ful priest. "Hullo " exclaimed Ned, " what have we here?- St. Francis, St. Dominic, or one of the apostles?" As the individual thus apostrophized turned slowly about, with a timorous mien, clutching his umbrella and prayer book, in the hope of steadying himself against the schooner's uneasy motion, we caught a view of a round, cafe au lait colored visage, while at the same   TALES FOR T-HE MARINES.     293 time he piped forth in a clear voice, like a girl, a long, melancholy howl of a matinal chant. Before, however, he got through the first stave, he made a lurch over to the lee bulwarks, and there lay with his head over the water, in great apparent anguish of stomach. "I say, Harry," said Peale to me, with a nudge, "they tell me that ' there's no priestling so small but has a popeling in his belly;' but I'm blessed if that little jackdaw isn't fast losing his- chance for the Vatican." Meanwhile I beheld the old baboon of a cook, with an axe in his paws, vigorously chopping away upon the rail and woodwork of the timber heads. "Well, what is that fellow trying to achieve?" we ejaculated to the skipper. "Filho da puta," he replied, in his usual expletive; "rwe forgot to bring fuel, and since the schooner is worthless, we are taking offa sliver here and there, where it won't be noticed." "Of course," we acquiesced; "go ahead; only don't cut any holes where the water will come in." There was considerable jabbering going on for the next half hour, and occasionally one or two of the natives would come up out of the Yhold and fore peak, with disappointed looks; and the skipper himself we heard rummaging about in the cuddy of a cabin, open- ing and shutting clockers and tapping casks, when, at- last, he too emerged, looking quite disheartened. The 2ti *WIVV YIIIVCIIIYUIII. Qg A   294      TALES FOR THE MARINES. smoke, however, from the caboose gave indications of -a feast; and by and by the baboon came aft with a bunch of spoons, some forks, and a string of garlic in one hand, and a great iron pot in the other - steaming with the most awfully scented mess ever, pitched into a kid. Depositing this savory burden on the deck, he made a dive over the taffrail; and stretching his black fins along the boat davit, he cut a bark strand, which upheld a cluster of half-ripe bananas, with his teeth, and then, sliding back with his prize, dropped them be- side the forks and iron pot. "( Feejap .a " he shrieked to the skipper, as he jerked his chin in direction of the breakfast - by; the by the only way a Guinea -nigger ever points. "Filho da puta!  O senhores! almopo," shouted the individual addressed, half in reply to the cook; while o almopo " was echoed as before, fore and aft, and in a moment the entire company of twelve or fourteen men came crowding like ravenous hounds to the quar- ter deck. s"Queer way these fellows have of serving the crew before the officers," said we;' but of this idea we were soon, dispossessed, for the skipper dipped his paw into the kettle, and pulled out a long tendon of a strip of jerked beef, which looked as if it had been a choice cut, just abaft the horns of some venerable bull. Taking it, like a rope yarn, in both hands, he, after one or two trials, snapped off six or eight inches, and laid it over -his   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       295* thigh, .as he sat upon the deck. Again making a plunge into the pot, he fished up a large salt stockfish by the tail; cut off a wedge with a knife, smelled it very close to his nose, removed his cigar, tasted the fish, as if it was a wafer, without swallowing the juice; and concluding, probably, that it was all right, he laid it also on his leg beside the beef. "I s'pose," muttered Peale, "that he is fearful of poisoning the: crew, and tastes the victuals first him- self." The skipper was, apparently, very calm and reflective in his designs, and after the little dalliance with the pot, he reached over to the bunch of bananas, pinched a number until he found two to suit his fancy, which, breaking from the stem, he deposited with the fish and beef. Then he twisted off a couple of heads of garlic from the. string, caught up a knife and fork, rubbed them on the filthy, tattered tow trousers which adorned but one leg of the baboon, who stood con- veniently near, and finally, laying the entire collection of eatables and utensils in the crown of his hat, he arose, approached the spot where we were perched, and emptied them before us. He gave us, at the same time, to understand that we could fall .to, at our earliest lei- sure, without remorse, of conscience. I was myself so astounded, that words forsook me; but:Ned seized a fist full of the mess, and launched it with all his might at the skipper; yelling out," "You   296     TALES FOR THE MARINES. miserable, chocolate-colored, nasty beast, is that the kind of grub for a gentleman of my pretensions and appetite? Take that." "Filho da puta!" whhied the Brazilian sea officer, apostrophizing the bony fragment of stockfish that had nearly put his eye out. At the same instant, the prongs of the fork stuck with a sharp progue into the fat padre's calves, which made him drop his breviary into the big kettle, while the jerked beef brought up like a pair of spectacles across the .old cook's nose; whereupon he shoved the delicate morsel into his potato trap, and sucked it down without a bite, similar to an anthear. The hubbub caused by this unlooked-for hostility on our part did not, however, take away the appetites of the remainder of the party, who devoured their meal to the smallest mite. The skipper was as energetic as his crew; and when, afterwards, an earthen mug of coffee was passed round, he partook of that also, though the beverage, unfortunately, had been decocted- from salt water.    ,  "By jingo," I said, "rather slim commons this." But, nevertheless, I pocketed the heads of garlic lying at my feet, to guard against the worst, and took a sip of the brandy which Hazy had given us. "It certainly is very slim diet," rejoined Ned; " but let's catechize the villain, and find out what all this joke means."   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      297 After arraigning the fellow and putting a few leading questions, what was our dismay to learn that the vessel had left Santos with only two days' provision; and. behold, it was all gone. "What," said we, "no water, nor beef, nor bread?" "None; not an ounce of any thing eatable in the drogher." X  Why, what an ass of a skipper you were, not to get supplied last night from the brig, instead of enticing valuable officers on board of this miserable hulk-to starve to death!"  Well, the idiot swore by as many-as thirty saints; male and female, that he expected to have reached Pa- ranagua before; and in short, that he did not know the provisions were entirely consumed, until the baboon had aninounced that dismal fact, just before, (what- he called) breakfast. You may be sure Peale and I were struck all aback when these tidings were related, and we resolved at once to steer for the brig. "But where, in the name of starvation, is the Flirt?" said I. "0, out of sight, nearly," exclaimed Ned, as he attentively aired his eye throughthe spy glass; "just taken the young sea breeze; and there she goes, snort- ing off the coast like a race horse."' "Well, then, let's edge in for the land; and pick up a mouthful to eat along shore."   ,8   TALES FOR THE MARINES. " Willingly," said Ned, "if we don't collapse before we get there." Away, some thirty miles on our starboard bow and beam, the land was plainly visible. The wind, however, 'was fast dying, and before the sun had passed the me- ridian we were becalmed. A little later, the sea breeze ,tossed the caps of the waves nearly into spoon drift, within a mile to seaward of us ; yet it did not touch us until about four o'clock, and then only gave us a push of a few leagues towards the coast. During this period, Ned and I exerted ourselves in trimming the old drogher, rebending the sails, hoisting -them taut up, and doing all we could to improve her sailing as much as practicable. We made our dinner and breakfast that day both in one, on the garlic I had stowed in my jacket pocket, and swore like troopers, at our stupidity in refusing the repast set before us in the morning by the skipper. Towards evening we took a heavy pull at the brandy bottle, and, regarded the fat, podgy legs of the priest with cannibalistic propensities. The only person, I believe, on board, who was quite indifferent about our plight, was Maltese Joe; whom we could hear laughing, in his delirium, down the close, hot hold, in great glee, and seemingly-enjoying himself hugely.   The noise of this maniac rather increased than alleviated the horrors of our hungry imaginations; and we had serious thoughts of stealing away in the    TALES' FOR THE MARINES,      99  stern boat,'and making a bolt for the beech; but, un-  lucklily, it was such a miserable, crazy tub of a yawl, that we should not have been able to paddle ten miles in a week; so we gave up that project in despair.  By sunset it was again a flat calm; and for want of something to keep our jaws occupied, Ned drew a bullet from one of his pistols, and gave me half to chew upon, reserving the remaining ball to shoot the priest like a gentleman and a martyr, when affairs got to be desperate. The lead was not nourishing, but still it gave us employment., As for sleep, it was out of the question-; and we waited, in the most gnawing suspense, until past mid- night, when the light ruffle of the land wind came stealthily over the water and filled our sails. We hugged the shore as close as possible; gaining consid- erably; and we hoped by morning to be up with Iguape, where there was a track of small coasting tra- ders, and the chance of being relieved from our em- barrassments. Towards morning, the wind again became  faint, and our stomachs thoroughly exasperated; so we insisted upon the skipper sending the boat ahead to tow. While the crew were employed in that labor, we persuaded the docile young padre to chant some of the most sonorous and ,admired canticles of the church, to sustain the men who were toiling at the oars. It was about the change: of the moon, and by Sunrise the sky had become obscured by masses of heavy clouds, and   300     TALES FOR THE 'MARINES. all of a sudden a copious tropical shower came down in buckets full. Heavens! how sucking the saturated canvas and scooping the fresh water out of the scuppers revived us 1 "And, by the Lord," remarked the Lieutenant, "it's worth just such a thirst, 'occasionally, to fully appreciate the value of that pure element." Well, Ned and I were so jolly after this refreshment, that we quite forgot our hunger, and induced the chubby padre to give us his history. As for history, he said he hadn't any. He was junior organist of the cathe- dral at San Paulo; was going on a visit to his brother at Santa Catharina, and had been offered passage part of the way in the schooner, which he had accepted; may the good St. Andre forgive him. All the baggage he owned was the red umbrella and the breviary; and he ended his biography by telling us how to determine the coming of Lent, and other movable fasts of the true church. After this effort, we gave him a drop of grog, and Ned Peale proposed a toast. "My starving friends,' he began, "I propose, The navy, the army, and the' marines;" the padre timidly suggested, "The church; ' and I, being sorely enam- oured with the cruel little creole, added, "The ladies ;" to which Ned, who had slept in a watch house in his time, concluded with, "The police." Whereupon we buried our mugs, seriatim, in the tin cup which held the grog, and each tossed off his portion. l ;   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      301 By this, time a breeze started up from the southward, the boat was called alongside, and the skipper made preparations for beating to windward. Taking the helm, he shouted some order in Portuguese; upon which his subordinates all lighted paper cigars, and then awaited further instructions. Down went the tiller, the old hulk slowly came up to the wind; but after nodding and dodging about a while, she missed -stays. "( Filho da puta!" roared the skipper, as he carefully detached :the cigarito from his lips. "s Filho da 2uta! ' shouted the crew, as they took up the cry of their chief, while the vessel fell doggedly off from the wind. This course of, tactics was at- tempted, with no better results, several times, until Peale advised the yawl to be sent out again, to tow the boat round, when we happily got on the other tack. While Ned was forward, giving directions about this delicate manceuvre, he sang out to me,- "CHurrah, Gringo! here's a canoe, or bolsa, close aboard." True enough, a large market canoe, with outriggers and mat sail, had come upon us during the rain showers; and what was more agreeable, she had a cargo of melons, mandioca, yams, some tallow, and aguardiente. In a few minutes we had bartered away all the light articles we could scrape together on board the drogher --the old gafftppsail, our neckerchiefs, a musket, the Maltese's Panama hat, and even the singing padre's 26   i802     TALES FOR THE MARINES. valuable umbrella. He, poor fellow, had dreadful mis- givings about parting with his property; but the sight and taste of a monkey jar full of kesash, and the man- dioca flour, soothed his feelings; and I believe that in another --moment he would have thrown his missal, gown, and stockings into the general bargain, had not the canoe shoved off. It was not many minutes before the grizzled baboon had split up more of the bulwarks, with a few shavings from the heel of the bowsprit, and had raised a blazing fire in the caboose. There we kept him, busy as -a demon, frying cakes in tallow, and roasting yams,-- which- we all relished exceedingly, - until near midnight; When the perverse old nigger dropped down exhausted, and swore, in his own dialect, that the fetish might eat him before he .would cook another mouthful. "s Filho da puta!" growled the lethargic skipper, in his wonted tones.               \ We had all, however, enough; and since the wind was baffling, and the night rainy, we lowered the sails again,; when Ned and I once more betook ourselves to our temporary retreat within the folds 6f the mainsail. v The following day was dull, cloudy, and rainy, ac- companied by sharp thunder and lightnling, with light, variable airs, which, however, did not last for ten minutes at a time. We-had sagged well in with the coast, either. by current or luck, and the skipper de- clared that he knew by the hills, which we got a peep ) '        '     * ,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       303 at occasionally, that we were near Paranagua Island. Still we could see nothing of the polacre, nor, what was to us infinitely worse, not a vestige of the dear little Flirt. Nevertheless, we made ourselves as comfortable as cir- cumstances would admit, and divided our time between the priest, the flapjacks, the aguardiente, and smoking tobacco wrapped in maize husks. It required a fair share of philosophy to accomplish even this; for we were alternately drenched with rain, and dried again by the hot sun, which ever and anon peered out for half an hour or so between the thunder showers. Had there been a readable book on board,;it might have alleviated our miseries but the only one was the little padre's missal, an d as it was printed in what appeared to our inerudite eyes black letter Latin, we could not make out a word, any more than the owner himself. We made, however, numerous marginal notes on the vellum, which, I fancy, rathei surprised any learned prebendary who may have chanced, at a later period, to peruse them. ' Another night came and passed.  Ned Peale assured me that he began to feel in an incipient state of lousi ness; that the mandioca flapjacks were injurious to his constitution ; and if he could procure a bit of chalk, he would like to write his will in the crown of his cap be- fore he bade a final adieu to his friends and the world. The skipper and his myrmidons, on the other hand,   304      TALES FOR THE MARINES . seemed to be basking in a true Brazilian paradise nothing to do and plenty to eat. , The weather at sunrise was- the same as the day be- fore; but as we now felt sure of being up with the island, Ned jumped on a .fragment of the quarter rail, that had not been entirely hacked into firewood by the baboon, and shinning up the kiar shrouds of the main rigging a -few feet, he sung out, with a joyful note,- "By George! there's a square rigger under topsails just looming up through that thick stuff away on the beam! and here's the land, too, close aboard!" 'IAy," I exclaimed; P"and the brig of war also! Look!"  We called the boy who had been left by Spuke in charge of his boat on the occasion of the skrimmage at the pulperia, who affirmed that the craft seen by Peale was the polacre; he knew her by a new breadth of cloth in the jib. As for the Flirt, there was no mistaking her taunt, trig ihasts, clear, razor-edge bow, and white cot- ton canvas. She was under easy sail, and evidently on the lookout for us, as was likewise the polacre. There we were, in the midst of the party; but being a smallish craft, and the weather thick and murky, we were not discovered. By and by there came up a snap of a squall; and, as we were not paying particular attention to seaman- ship, it gave us a lick in the slack of the mains'ail, with j}   TALES FOR, THE MARINES      305 so smart a jerk that the boom overhauled the whole length of the sheet in a jiffy, sent the fat little padre an acrobat through the air, and with a- loud crack carried away the rotten old boom short off at tie sheet blocks. "Filho da puta!" exclaimed the skipper, while the rest of us did all we could to get the sail down and clear the wreck, and the baboon instantly began to chop away on the fractured boom. At the same time the Maltese below, getting thirsty, perhaps, - for the Lord only knows whether he had tasted a drop of water since sailing, -raised as horri- ble a series of yells and demoniac, howls for "agua! agua-a!" as ever came from fevered lungs. One squall, however, no sooner passed than another would flurry around us, from, may be, the opposite di- rection; and thus we had our hands full, in. the crazy old drogher, to lower and roll up the sails as soon as possible. We had fears, too, of being capsized and sunk, since there were only a few stones and shingle bal- last in bulk in the hold, and part of that had shifted in the first puff; so that we heeled over like a fellow, with a short wooden leg on the side of a hill. "Pleasant times these!" muttered Ned, whose dis- gust was approaching a climax ; " and there's a legion of waterspouts forming all around us, besides. Shouldni't be the least surprised if we were sucked up into the clouds somewhere, and then rained down again; in -the woods, and reported for a remarkable phenomenons -26'   ;06fi    TALESji FOR THE MARINES Heavens'! did you ever hear such thunder? I wish I had no ears for a couple of minutes." "Nor eyes either," I thought, as the rapid volleys of celestial artillery and the flashes of lightning nearly stunned and blinded us. -"I'll tell you what, though," said, Ned, after a pause; "I'm going to get some of these Diegos' muskets ready "to tap the shell of any of those spouts that may come dancing near us. Hiarry Greenfield has had experience in these matters, and I've heard him say that a bullet pitched into their bodies will let all -the water out in no time." Accordingly we desired the skipper to hand out a couple of muskets and ammunition from a locker near the taffrail; but on examining them, we found the, powder soaking wet, and the arms covered with rust. But Ned, not to be outdone in his design, carried a flask too the galley, and pouring about a pound of powder into an iron pot, directed ithe cook to dry it over the warm ashes. Fortunately at this juncture my companion came aft to cut up a piece of the mainsail to polish and clean out the barrels of the muskets; for as he reached me, there was' a dull, quiet sort of an explosion, followed by a huge puff! of; thick, white smoke, which completely ob- scureid the schooner forward. 'The momient it cleared away, we saw: the rickety old caboose completely de- moHslid;;i :e :bneKss ' scattered"artiUnd, ; a ifew embers   TALES FOR iTHE MARINES;       807 and splinters of the boom and bulwarks blazing about; the old black baboon lying on his back,;with his heels up in the air, his wool singed to a crisp, and screaming, ,in his Guinea gibberish, with all his vocal power. "e Filho da puta!" ejaculated the terrified skipper, as a fragment of an earthen pot was hurled by the force of the powder, and, grazing his foot, barked his shins grievously while the pious padre pattered a misericor- dia, and Ned 'Peale swore that 'the flapjack baking was done for, and for the future we should have to Subsist on chewed bullets. The cause of the disaster was a few live coals, dropped into the kettle"by the old cook, to hasten the'process of drying the powder. Whether it was the noise of the explosion or the smoke' that the vessels in our vicinity first percelved I do not know; but both had now observed us, and the Flirt had braced round her 'yards,' with her nose pointed after us from seaward, while the polacre had let fall her foresail, and squared away from the direction of Par- anagua. At this time there must have been at the least a'score of waterspouts, reeling and twisting, with their hollow, waving cones, within a mile of us. -Some were like long coach whips, others resembled inverted palmi trees, pending from  the heavy, slate-colored clouds above, waving their tapering tubes in 'graceful motion, until a white whirl would be perceived in the sea beneath,-':and the next instant theagitated 4waterwould rise in a liquid   cone, and joining the ragged, vapory section above, would go spinning, in a clear, dark-blue or brown hue, over the undulating ocean. Sometimes they would move with great velocity - ten miles the hour ; again, lazy, and almost motionless, bending at a great angle, as if, about to fall asunder, and then straightening up, like a beautifully turned column, would waltz away in a new direction. There was a pair of these spouts, of heavier calibre than their companions, which came on one after the other, running a kind of sweepstakes race, directly be- tween the drogher and the polacre. The headmost fel- low went spinning on past our bow, twisting and draw- ing up an enormous hollow column of water, roaring and rushing, with the noise of a tempest, out to seaward, beyond the calm spot where we lay. Its mate, however, appeared rotating along in a slow, dignified gait on the lofty, vertical axis, until it came in a line with the schoon- er, when, swaying and bending its liquid back until near- ly broken in'twain, it seemed to recover its lost energy, and with a cone of increased diameter and immense ve- locity, it whirled towards the polacre. "Stand from under that shower, Mr. Nash, or you'll get your toes damp," said Peale, drawing a long breath, while the trembling padre quavered an ave, and the skipper gave vent to his usual phrase of "Filho da puta!" addressed to the world at large. A squall of rain passed over us at the moment, and :5d-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       309 when it had partially cleared, so that we could see a ca- ble's length, we cast our eyes over the ocean, but could detect nothing of the polacre or waterspout.  Both" had disappeared, and there was the placid water, undu- lating gently, and the sun bursting out from a patch of insultingly blue sky, lighting up the sea all around. "Yes," exclaimed Ned, "I think there's something black off here, like a vessel bottom side up. And, hil- loo! here's the Flirt's cutter!" Presently the oars of the boat were tossed alongside the drogher, and Makeen sat in the stern sheets, grinning with more than ordinary rapture, and making all kind inquiries after our health, spirits, and cruise. We lost no time in embracing Mak, first letting ourselves drop by the run on top of him; and then, taking the skipper and the priest, to whom we had become fondly attached, with us in the cutter, the men dashed away for the wreck. We had not half a mile to pull; but before ieaching the spot, Hazy, with the Flirt's gig, a long, slim, muscle shell looking vehicle, with seventeen-feet oars, came sweeping up to us hand over hand, Oin nearing the'wreck, we passed fragments of spars, with sails and stranded cordage attached; and just beyond lay the'hull of the polacre on her broadside, and being deeply laden, it was rapidly settling down in the water. There was a flock of tame ducks and some fowls swimming and cackling about the floating articles, and we saw the uplifted armb   , 810    TALES FOR THE MARINES. of a drowning negro, with the fingers twitching convul- sively as he went under, either by the aid of fright, or a shark at his heels; and although the bowman of the gig pushed his long oar blade down after him, yet the poor fellow did not take hold. The only other human being visible was an individu- al hanging to the main channels of the vessel, without a hat, but standing in a huge .pair of fisherman's boots, and with a spy glass tucked under his arm,. The cutter was the first to reach this man, and then only in time to drag him into the boat before the lum-  bering wreck gave forth a volume of loud bubbling noises, from the confined air below the decks; then rolling half over in the ocean swell, she rapidly sank. During this occurrence, the person who had been res- cued seemed to be in a dream; but as the eddies and foam caused by the dying throes of his lost bark exhib- ited the reality of the thing, he started hastily up from the thawt, and indulged in a kind of apostrophe to the terrific water spout. "Wal, if that air warn't the most cantankerous streak of greased lightnin that ever I see, I hope to be darned tu all eternal smash. It tuk me clean up to the planets, I ra-aly du believe, and washed the hull of the skin off my chops in abeout a minute; and I'm all shriv- elled up, jist like a washerwoman's thumb. Polacre gone tu! twisted and shivered all ter toothpicks, and a full - carger of splendid sugar aid coffee, worth ten cents a   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      3" pound in ther States! I sweow I wonder what Spuke 'll say! Guss the darned spoutin' fmnnil; it warn't my fault, no how! But my feelins is po-ig-nant, sartin." "How are you, Captain Nash?"I broke in, inter- rupting his soliloquy. "Why, who the hell be you? " the rascal exclaimed, as he swung round with unfeigned surprise; but recot- ering his wits, he glanced over the boats,- and then, with his leery, sharp, hazel eyes towards the old drogher, he went on. "O, golly! Boys, yu belong to ther war brig theer, eh? I remember neow, I was squintin at ye with the glass, when that air water fixter capsized my wessel; I wos on the pint of speakin that air skuner down theer; so shove us aboard her, will ye, little chap?" The concluding portion of this speech was addressed  to Makeen, who replied, - "Certainly, Boots,"-- in allusion to the extreme dis- proportion his pedal coverings bore to the rest of his apparel, --" but hadn't you better first get shrived by this amiable little priest, and provide yourself with a long spoon, in case the hot old gentleman below should invite you to sip a bowl of soup; for your smuggling game of coffee and sugar is all up, in this world." " Yu lie, fur sartin," was the polite rejoinder. I'm on a fair and square tradin vyge." "Yes," I edged in, mimicking his whiny, nasal drawl, "t with Mr. Spuke, who has a tombstone over his head   O 1    - TALES FOR THE MARINES. and is toes up at Santos; and you have a chance for a pair of twenty pound iron gaiters on your shanks at Rio, for your share of the copper venture." The fellow half closed his ferret-shaped eyes, and said no more, except in selling his spy glass to one of the cutter's crew for a dollar; and then proceeded to pare his nails with his jackknife, as if nothing of conse- quence had happened to him. Even on getting on board the drogher, he submitted to being put in double irons, and rather rough treatment by the crew, )without a murmur; but when the black cook tried to poke a little fun at him, he fetched the -old baboon such a wipe with his handcuffs as nearly to sever the upper lip from the jaw. After this he was tumbled below into the stifling hold, to keep company with Maltese Joe. In the course of the afternoon, Hazy supplied the drogher with a few days' provisions and water, fished the main boom, patched up the caboose, and taking the padre along with us for a lift to St. Catharine's, the skip- per lighted his paper cigar, put his helm up, shouted, "Filho da puta," and bore away for Rio Janeiro with his ,prisoners. ". As it may not occur to me again, Fred, quoth the Lieutenant, as he halted in his narrative, to speak of the fate -of these worthies, I may as well inish them now in a very few words. It was, perhaps, three years after the disaster to the polacre, that I was standing, one fine moonlight night,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      313 with' a number of officers belonging to the Juniata, on the slope of the palace stairs, at Rio, waiting for a boat to go on board.- Suddenly there sprang out a figure from the shade of the wall near by, and dealing me a V smart blow on the side in passing, he leaped with a bound towards the water. At the instant the sharp bow of the corvette's cutter came swiftly in, bows on to the pier, and the person who plunged head foremost from the steps to escape us came full in contact with the hard iron-rimmed stem of the boat, with so heavy a shock that her way was in a moment checked.  We heard a loud groan as the injured man dropped into the thick, muddy water of the inner harbor; a few bubbles and sparkles followed the splash, but the crew could not dis- cover the body. When, the fellow struck at me, between my left arm and side, we heard also a faint cry-of pain from some one immediately at my elbow; and on turning to look for the cause, we found that one of the gun room ser- vants, a' quiet lad, named Antonio, had been badly stabbed in the groin, by the thrust of a knife, no doubt intended for me. He was taken to the United States in the Juniata, and after suffering for many months in the hospital, eventually recovered.. A day or two after this incident, old Kit Dolphin went to visit a former shipmate, who was lying ill in the Misericordiaj and there in the frightful morgue of that dreadful lazar house, he saw stretched upon a wet mat the rigid, bloated 27   S14     TALES FOR THE MARINES. corpse of Maltese Joe. Kit knew him by the large white tusk which projected from the hair lip. Subsequently, we learned that the Maltese and Nash had been condemned to ten years in chains on Cobras Island, and that both had recently escaped. What be- came of the astute Elias, I never positively knew; but many years after ythe death of his - companions, while I was cruising in the Pacific on board the old Penguin; I was told that an individual answering to the description of Mr. Nash had been driving a highly profitable busi- ness in the opium trade at Canton River.- Forgive my tediousness, observed the Lieutenant to the ladies, after the above digression; but you know that in a matter of contemporaneous history, one wishes to be precise. We will return, if you please, to-morrow, to our cruise in the Flirt.  I    CHAPTER IX. "FRIGHTFUL!" ejaculated Commander Hazy, as he heard the conclusioin of our exploits and trials on board the schooner from Ned Peale's lips - "frightful ; but I did cherish the hope," he added, smiling waggishy at me, as I stood beside my sweet young creole brunette, "that you would have had -' an alacrity in sinking,' and been drowned like 'a blind bitch's puppies, fifteen i' the litter,' for I have been very unhappy since your de- parture." Here he bowed with mock     sensibility to the Spanish   beauty and murmured  with expressive feeling, - "The time I've lost in wooing, in watching, and pursuing The light that lies in woman's eyes, has been my soul's undoing." Still, with all Hazy's side play, he was delighted to get us back, shook us warmly by the hand, ordered Imperial Csesar to lay before us the' treasures of the cabin  pantry, and laughed till the tears bedecwed his cheeks at Ned Peale's repetition of our miseries and starvations on  board the prize.  He also made an im- pressive oration to the priest, out of the Latin grammar, cmd  directed the sailmaker forthwith to construct, for (316)   316     TALES FOR THE MARINES. the pious father, an umbrella of No. 2 duck canvas, to supply the place of the red one. We were all happy as clams at high water -that evening; but the next morning, when I found the Flirt jumping over the waves, and the spray flying well up into her courses, as she lay over to a stiff sea breeze, with the Island of Arvoredo on the weather bow, I began to fear that my roving independence was drawing to a close, and that I should soon be in the traces again. We had scarcely got through dinner when Harry- Greenfield insinuated his proboscis inside the cabin door, and reported that 'the "commedoor had showed his number in answer to ourn, sir." "All right," said Hazy; "much obliged for the at-  tention. Here's his health, and allow me to add, God bless the rich; the poor can beg; and since I've hypoth- ecated my pay for the next twelve months, I shall look to virtue for my reward." After- these philosophic sentiments, we all went on deck, and an hour later our pretty little clipper brig anchored demurely under the counter of the Colombine, a great heavy double-banked frigate, painted as black as a raven. By the way, ladies, paused the Lieutenant, as he ran his hands through his hair, you can't paint a ship a dead black, unless she is symmetry itself. Just like a snub-nosed woman trying to wear her hair brushed straight back a la Pompadour! I tell you that it is the   TAALVS FOR TE MAtIM  S.    . 317 only test of true architectural beauty as applied to ships. I never, in point of fact, saw but 'two that could stand it; one a smashing big English frigate, called the Con- stance, and the other our own Colombine. Now, a plain woman's sprightliness and wit may carry off any style, as bizarre as you please; but a ship must of inanimate necessity rely upon her body and- legs, and without these essential elements to admiration, great care should be paid to the paint. At least, that is my opinion as a Christian, in this progressive age, having a -regard gen- erally for the appearance of ships, qualified the narra- tor, as he again caught up the link of his discourse. The anchorage at Santa Catharina was in a small bight of the main land, under an old ruin of a moss-covered fort, and abreast the house of a burly down-easter, who called himself Killcat. This individual was married to the daughter: of the governor of the fortress, - a ser- geant of Brazilian regulars,- and the trio turned an honest penny by supplying ships with fresh beef, (steal- ing bullocks for the same,) and spare spars, appre- hending runaway sailors, smuggling merchandise, keep- ing a ten-pin alley, and in a word, making themselves ubiquitously useful. There was a tradition too, floating about, relative to Killcat, to the effect that in times past he had been skipper of a whaler; that. she had turned flukes sonme- where, gone dwn to the bottom,-of his pocket -and in consequence, the unhappy man was then living the 27    818      T AT S FOR THE MARINES. life of a recluse in that out-of-the-way part of Brazil. Some stray old mariner, also, whose testimony was quite unworthy of belief, affirmed that he had a wife and sev- eral starving brats in the Vineyard Sound, in the States, and the reason why Killcat did not pay them a visit, was, that among the rigid puritans of those ,regions, {"La polygamie est un cas pendable; " and fearful lest they would treat him to a " vegetable breakfast on a hearty-choke- and caper sauce," he very prudently kept snug, out of their reach. Notwithstanding the amiable efforts of Killcat to amuse us, it was dreadfully stupid work there at the northern anchorage. We were afraid to trudge much about the hills on account of a plentiful distribution of venomous insects and serpents, the cobra di capello in particular, and so we passed our leisure in rolling stone balls at the ten-pins, and in eating shrimps, whortle- berries and milk, on the domain of our virtuous coun- tryman. The Island of St. Catharine's itself acts as a gigantic breakwater, running for many leagues parallel with the continent, and enclosing several large and commodious bays. The one at the southern end is Arazatiba, a lovely circular sheet of water, rimmed by a lofty amphi- theatre of hills, clothed with noble groves of green timber; and it is altogether as picturesque a prospect of land and sea as one may care to behold. Arazatiba is indeed the last point of smiling fertility which the   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      319 voyager beholds towards the southern limits of Brazil, and almost the last spot of seaboard verdure to be seen on this side of the great continent all the way to Cape Horn. The coast beyond St. Catharine's gradually slopes down to a wild, sterile, uncultivated region, until it melts into the low banks of the Rio de la Plata, and, still farther inland, sweeping on to the nearly intermi-- nable pampas of the interior. There was a small town called Nossa Senhora do Desterro, built within the curve of the entrance to the Bay of Arazatiba, which was as hot, romantic, and quiet a spot as one need desire. 'Here we had a generous, hospitable consul, whose - house was always open to the officers of the frigate and brig, and here, too, his wife had given Antonietta a billet during the sojourn of the ships. By some plausible pretext I usually managed to pass most of my time there, and I soon had the satisfaction of teaching the young creole how to navigate along the shore in a canoe, under the guidance of my dexterous paddle. One evening, however, I chanced to spill her out into the water, a little above her ankles, whereby she soiled her pietty little satin slippers, and could not dance at the tertulia, so that she proved unappeasable for a whole week, and made me horridly jealous by coquetting with Makeen, who, by the way, was not a whit uglier than I. But, thank Cupid and -the commodore, the Flirt was ordered off to the River Amazon one -fine day, to see   820      TALES FOR THE MARINES. how the revolution was going on at Para; and then, having no further pangs from Hazy or Makeen, my pouting sweetheart returned to me once more, and I recovered my lost spirits in a trice. The frigate was ready to leave shortly after; and when the burly Killcat had fingered the cash for his righteous dues, bettering his fortunes considerably, no doubt, in the operation, the ship was unmoored, and with the davits, spars, and boats teeming with nets of oranges, yellow, clustering bunches of bananas, green, pulpy al- ligator pears, and other tropical fruits, she turned her heel on the island. The Colombine had been a long time on the station, and, as is generally the case,-the gun deck forward was little better than a marine menagerie. In this living collection of natural history was a learned pig, who would rear on his hind trotters and catch bits of biscuit in his mouth; and there was a devilish small beast the sailors called a mongoose, about the size of a ferret, and so savage that no one dared approach him. His chief sagacity was exhibited in biting people's noses; and on a certain occasion, when an indiscreet reefer had caught the brute in a noose, triced him up to a hammock hook by the tail, and severed off some inches of that indispen-- sable appendage with a cutlass, the moment the little animal felt himself free he flew up and snapped off a piece of the offender's proboscis. Parrots and monkeys, however, were in the greatest   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       321 abundance.  The former couild out-whistle the boat- swain and out-swear his mates, by long odds. One -of. them - a handsome gray and red plumed fellow - could preach as good a sermon as the chaplain, and his bene- diction was the most impressive thiig you ever heard. But the monkeys! There were two distinct tribes on board, and each had their own parts of the shipfor exercise, and whenever either presumed to overstep those defined limits there ensued a battle royal. One family was the long-tailed, sharp-toothed Brazilian ape, and the other the reddish, manly-looking fellows, with their stern frames polished like the frigate's copper fun- nel. Each tribe had a leader, and rare sport theymade. The first lieutenant ordered them all thrown overboard or shot at least twice a week; but as they were great pets of the sailors, their faults, and pranks were in the end forgiven. The largest of the African species, a sedate, gentlemanly monkey, with a bushy black beard, which he paid extreme attention to, conceived a mortal dislike for the commodore, especially when he was shaving or brushing his hair. On. those occasions the monkey would fly into a frantic passion, believing, possibly, that the commodore was imitating his own motions with his paws. One pleasant morning, while the commodore was busy writing, this mischievous brute, whom the men politely addressed as Sir Charles Grandison, stole into - the dressing room, where, after lathering his chops, head, and rump, he very systematically pitched all the elegant W          -   322     TALES FOR THE MARINES. pearl-handled razors, brushes, soaps, and various articles of the toilet, out of the port; then, jumping out into the main cabin upon the table, he capsized the ink, tore up the papers, and slapping the aghast commander-in- chief in the face, statched off his wig, and made an exit, with a satisfied screech, through the blinds of the gun deck cabin doors. Sir Charles never drew breath -that is, if a monkey ever requires to, from fatigue - until he gained the main truck, where he hung the peruke on the spindle of the lightning conductor, and remained himself aloft in the daytime for a long period, seeming to be conscious of the enormity of his crime, and the punishment which awaited him when brought to justice. He was, however, eventually pardoned; and the mercy shown him had a happy effect, for ,ever after- wards he behaved like a perfect gentleman, learned to fight duels with wooden   pistols in the waist, and  brought the -broadsword  exercise to a high pitch of perfection. The frigate had light winds after sailing from St. Catharine's, and she made but little progress on her, course to the River Plate, so that there was plenty of leisure to pull the guns in and out, scrub the paint work, holystone the decks, and what not, to the great joy of the first lieutenant. As I  was merely a passenger, and there was an unoc- cupied cabin in the gun room, I  had leave to fill it for the short time I expected to remain before joining   TALES FOR THE' MARINES. *     323 the Juniata. This comfortable berth, you may depend upon it, pleased mes- exceedingly, and I slept without the nightly risk of having my clews cut, or a sponge filled with water suspended over my head, or the learned pig stowed in my hammock by the larkish young imps of the steerage, The gun room mess comprised a very jolly set of fel- " lows for the most part, and among them Joe Montacute, who was at the time acting sailing master of the frigate. It was not one of those messes where the members talked of ropes, sails, evolutions of ships, and the like nautical jargon. No one was heard. to ask what kind of a voice such and such a first lieutenant had, or how the jib hal- liards of such a ship were rove, or whether the rigging and backstays set up on their own ends or were turned in cutter-stay fashion; but all had the good, companion- able sense to leave those Benbow topics to their proper occasions, and while at mess to allow the mind to dwell upon more wholesome food. I shall certainly never forget the first dinner I had at that mess. There had been, I imagine, some little dif- ferences existing for some time previous, and on this occasion the caterer talked of resigning, and it was upon a new election that the scene I am about to relate occurred. The Colombine had great beam, and the open space or C"country" in the gun room was laid transversely with a large table, loaded with the usual appurtenances   324      TALES FOR THE MARINES. of dinner, and lighted by a pair of globe lamps swing-  ing from the beams above. At the first peal of the bugle, playing the air for dinner, the doors of the little state cabins, on either side of the " rural districts " of the gun room were thrown open, and some twenty gentle- men appeared and stood behind their chairs. The chap- lain gave a hearty grace, - short and particularly sweet, --and the next instant, the clatter of soup plates and spoons resounded far and near. At one -end of the table sat the executive officer of the ship, Mr. Rhamrods, a grim, florid-faced gentleman, with light hair and eyes, and a not unpleasing expres- sion. He was a taciturn, pompous person, oftentimes mistaking stiffness of -demeanor for dignity, and though he was seldom affable or sociable with his messmates, and sadly deficient in tact, yet on the whole, I believe, he was a worthy officer, and with a more genial manner he might have got on very well. Beside him was a large, portly lieutenant, solid in mind as in body, who had a natural antipathy to those of his species who had more money than he; withal, extremely inquisitive, but, singular enough, he never asked a question without being thoroughly acquainted with the subject beforehand. Notwithstanding these peculiarities, he was an excellent messmate and a brave and correct officer. Farther on, ,and opposite, were ranged half a dozen officers of the same grade--one a, thin-visaged person, with a head scarcely bigger than a   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      325 walnut, and a lanky body adorned with a quantity of flash jewelry, whose cognomen was Brokenberry. Still farther down the table was a good old major of marines, who invariably agreed with every one, upon every imaginable topic. Then came the parson, --a regular fire eater, - and three surgeons, the younger of whom was known as the Ladders, for his propensity to run up and down those stairways. The remainder of the mess consisted of supernumeraries, secretary, purser, master, a consul, and the caterer, who, in virtue of his office, sat at the lower end of the table..- Behind the chairs were posted a corps of waiters, .of all colors, sizes, and ages. They distributed plates as if dealing a pack of cards, and were rather slow in changing them; yet, with an admirable instinct, they bore off the wine glasses during dinner at a moment's notice, more especially when they were not emptied of wine. While the soup was serving, very little conversation took place, there being only a few low growls at the servants, and the cook, and at the idlers, for having played backgammon so as to disturb the watch officers. Theseianimadversions caused rather snappish rejoinders, and the caterer, in behalf of his stewards, declared it was the most unreasonable mess ever known -that the soup was the purest of ox-tail, and esteemed a great delicacy. "Nonsense!" exclaimed one of the lieutenants named Noly, who set himself up for the mess wit; " ever since I dined with the governor of Ceylon, where we had 28   TALES FOR THE MARINES. mulligatawney soup, worth a guinea a spoonful, I can't endure such trash as this." Here the covers were removed, and while the meats were carving, the fat officer threw out a hint to be in- :   formed where the ship was, and if there were any hopes of getting in if the wind held. This seemed to be a side blow at the master, who got up his bristles at once; but before he could reply, the secretary, a bright, black-eyed, handsome little fellow, spoke up and said,- "One moment, gentlemen, with your permission. I am directed by the commander-in-chief to read to you a recent order from the navy department, relative to whiskers." And so he went on with the regulation, that "the hair on the face was not to be worn lower than two 'inches below the tip of the ear, in a line with the mouth." When Larry, the secretary, had concluded the docu- ment, and the knives had been resumed, Brokenberry, who sported a prodigious mass of hair under his chin, which made him appear like a rat peeping out of a bunch of oakum, broke out with, - "Well, I'll be switched if the secretary of the navy, who gave that order, isn't an--- "A A-a-gentlemen," interrupted Mr. Rhamrods; "a- really, can't- a-listen to any language disre- sictful to the a--- "Hair on our faces," said Noly, ironically; " and per- haps you wouldn't be glad to raise a pair like this your- self," stroking his whiskers complacently.    "Fellows, I trust the game isn't entirely blocked for cool, dispassionate argument upon this question,' be- gan Nickles, the fleet surgeon. ," Cut off your whiskers first, though," gibed in the chaplain. "Then we can't drink brandy and gin, And we'll all shave under the chin." chanted Noly, as if he was setting up the back stay falls. 'No, by thunder," continued Nickles, "not till I have clearly shown this intelligent mess--that is, if the caterer will hold back dinner a minute or two - that the measure promulgated is diametrically opposed to health, honor, and religion." "Proceed," solemnly observed the purser. s Well, then, my friends, my professional opinion is, the beard acts as respiratory organs to assist the lungs, and was therefore intended by Providence to subserve a good purpose.. For example your cavalry men, who wear the beard as nature intended, are not afflicted like the foot soldiers, who are all more or less troubled with cutaneous disorders about their muzzles, resulting from the incessant scraping, lathering, and exposure in the line of their duty. On the other hand, behold your lusty sailor, when he jumps out of a hot hammock on a steaming lower deck, to reef topsails in the frosty upper regions: if he has a beardaround the throat, it absorbs by a natural process the perspiration, protects the honest tar of all weathers from bronchitis, cynanchje trachealis,    828      TALES FOR THE MARINES. and other painful disorders. But the reverse is the case when your martinet captains curtail Jack of his hairy proportions. Then, again, Poll delights in her Jack's whiskers; and in fact the softer sex generally do not ob- ject to those hirsute appendages. "Why, my friends," said Nickles, getting warm in his lecture, dropping his knife and holding a pickle up in the air on his fork, " why, a glossy beard is a mark of good living -quite a sign held out, such as one sees over a French- auberge, ' Ici on mange bien.' The con- templative Turks will tell a man's feeding by a glance at his beard; and they consider it more disgraceful to be deprived of that manly ornament, than to be publicly bastinadoed. All good Mussulmans swear by their beards. The Tartars waged a bloody war, as a religious principle, on the Persians, because they declined to cut their beards a la Tartare. Homer wrote sublime poetry on the beards of Nestor and old Priam. The ancient rulers of France sealed letters with hairs from their whiskers. Many famous generals were even named after their beards, and martyrs have had theirs respected on the scaffold from the sacrilegious axe. The beard ukase of the Czar Peter almost overthrew his empire, and nearly caused a massacre equal to that of St. Bartholomew.  i The Spaniards say, c Desde que no hay barba, no hay mas alma,' - Since we have lost otir beards, adieu to our souls. And the grave Portuguese, too, regard the beard as one of the most precious rights of man. As an instance, in   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      329 the reign of Queen Catharine, the gallant John de .Cas- tro, having taken a castle in India, found himself in the awkward predicament of the man who had drawn an elephant in a raffle-with no means to support the acquisition. So Don John called upon the inhabitants of Goa for a thousand pistoles to maintain his fleet, and' as a security for that sum he sent one of his whiskers, telling them, ' All the gold in the world cannot equal the value of this natural ornament of my valor; and I deposit it in your hands as a bond for the money.' What generosity! what heroism, my messmates! And can you doubt that the brave knight was rewarded by twice the treasure he asked?" cI should like to make a pilgrimage to Goa," ob- served Brokenberry;  I'm rather hard up just at this crisis, and flatter myself that I could supp/y that market with as fine a pair of whiskers as Mr. Castro." Without noticing this interruption, the doctor went on. "Ay, all the great marshals, poets, and painters of France took infinite pride in their beards; and it was not uncommon for a favorite lover to have his whiskers trimmed, combed, curled, waxed, and perfumed by the high-born dames of the court.  Even Moses, in holy writ, forbade the Hebrews to cut off their beards en- tirely; and the Marquesan Islanders preserve each hair of their ancestors' beards with the most scrupulous ven- eration. Good Sir Roger de Coverley himself offered to lead the- fashion, at a. month's notice, with a pair of 28    330      TALES FOR THE MARINES, whiskers, so as to restore faces to their ancient dignity; and Hudibras, too,- 'His tawny beard was th' equal grace Both of his wisdom and his face.' Again, among the celestial bodies, comets themselves have beards." :"So have oysters," added Noly; " but they have no more right to them than elephants to have their names inscribed with brass nails on their trunks.'"-- "Silence!" growled somebody. J"And why," continued Nickles, "should we not respect also the professors of the tonsorial department? It is a noble avocation. Blessings on the Romans, who, in the days of Pliny, imported a troop of barbers into Italy from Sicily. Regard their descendants! See the benefits they have shed upon mankind! Look back to the time of Cervantes, when the barbers' shops were the resorts of the great politicians, statesmen, and wits of the age. And in later times, remember that the king of comedy, Moliere, was said to have derived many of his unrivalled characters from the studies pre- sented to him in a barber's shop; ay, and the elbow chair is still shown at Pezenas where he silently sat watching the grimaces and gestures of his favorite models. Think, too, that the learned Jeremy Taylor's father was a barber, and that in the present day, Jasmin, the peasant poet of fair Provence and Languedoc, the *              X   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       331 ' last of the troubadours,' is but a simple barber. And although, my marine friends, it is not every barber who can aspire to the fame of a Smallpeace, Higgins, or Williams, yet we must look kindly on, and cherish those less favored by fortune or talents. "Yet, after all the benefits which I trust I have thus unfolded to your view, as well for the toleration of beards as for barbers, we have just received orders, my indignant messmates, as severe as the decrees of Draco, to slaughter our innocent hirsute decorations, merely to gratify the absurd taste, or vanity, or jealousy of people who can no more raise a crop of good wholesome hair on their faces than a poor scrub of a Chinaman. "Therefore, gentlemen,"  cried the impassioned Nickles, as he thrust the pickle into his mouth, and stuck the fork into the mahogany, " this system of per- secution must be put down; and I propose to --- "Cut off our whiskers two inches below the ear, in a line with the mouth," suddenly broke in Monta- cute; whereupon all the mess shouted with one voice, c-Agreed ;-   and the doctor, recovering his senses, glanced round the table, and finding the dinner going "carnis universce via,' he quickly changed his tune, and exclaimed, - "Major, what's that before you? It doesn't look very tempting."- "No, sir; French dish, sir; could not recommend it; never touch these kickshaws, sir."  S   V     JLAl'.i .. ./TLES 'R  llAJI l. MA JO. At the same instant some person a long way off said, "Major, I'll trouble you again; it's the best dish on the table."' "Yes, indeed," replied the complaisant soldier; c ex- cellent fricassee, Monty; always find the French cook- ery delightful, because their sauces are drawn from the juices of the viands themselves." "I appeal to the ghosts of all the cordon-bleus who ever took their diplomas in Paris or St. Petersburg, if this sauce piquante isn't sour enough to make a pig squeal." "Yes, doctor, it is rather sharp, and I always give a preference to sweet sauces. You'll find it the most in- digestible thing on the table." "Glass of wine with you, Montacute," said Noly. "Let me join you," coaxingly observed Brokenberry. "O, no, you won't; I'm not to be done out of my tipple in that style. One at a time, if you please." "What'll you drink?" said Monty; c"some light wine?" "Yes," said Noly; "port; the old crusty at one and six; horrible stuff for a respectable landlord to fur- nish his, boarders with." Here the caterer again piped up at what he termed the c infernal growling," and hinted that nobody knew what good wine was, and that, on his conscience, he didn't believe some of the mess knew a good feed when placed before them.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      333 " No!" screamed half a dozen -disaffected persons; "'then perhaps you'll serve up the, myth of one 'for us; make a trial; there's a good fellow --do." "Well, then, gentlemen," said the. caterer, sardoni- cally, "to begin, I'd give you oysters with lemon juice, Julienne soup   "here he hesitated "-then poulet a la Marengo -- O Lord!" burst out Nickles, who prided himself on his knowledge of gourmandise; "chickens before fish! and then I suppose we are to have 'islands of moonshine in syllabub lakes! ' Come, that will do for to-day; send for a hard, flinty biscuit, and break that individual's head.' "O, you needn't -take that trouble," cried the testy caterer; "I've intended for a long time to throw up the confounded office, and now you may please to accept my resignation, or leave it alone, as you prefer." "Hillo! you don't mean to make us unhappy," shouted Montacute; "however, we must scare up another caterer, or starve." Sam Jackstones, one of the medicos, was proposed for the vacancy; but he declined the compliment, be- cause he said he was loose in accounts; at the same time his principles were for unbounded extravagance, if the majority sanctioned it. "I'm blessed, gentlemen, if any majority picks my pocket," nervously ejaculated the major; c"I am for genteel economy."   O;$49 :   TALES FOR THE MARINES. "Any way, messmates, make that fruit basket a bal- lot box, and pass it round to the marine republicans, to vote." The oranges were rolled out, and a small blue-eyed Swede, who went by the name of Baron Stockholm, passed the basket about the table; the members wrote their suffrages on slips of paper, and threw them in. These were counted by Larry; a tie was declared, and a new election called. Hereupon there was considerable hubbub, attended by symptoms of a renewed discussion, when Mr. Rhamrods rose.  Placing his arms akimbo on his hips, like a pair of boomerangs, he began with,- cA--  gentlemen! a-   ' there appears toG have existed, of late, some little--a - differences of opinion upon mess matters; but- a- It attribute it more to the unnatural state of existence - a - we lead on shipboard than any other cause; but -a - if you will allow me to suggest, - a - since the office of caterer is at this moment in commission, that -a-the steward be empowered to produce the best --a-tipple the wine stores afford,-a-a   then I would add a hope that harmony   a -in future may be our watchword." "Agreed! willingly! by all means!" said every one, at the termination of this good-tempered address, and the lost humor of the mess was at once restored. The ex- asperated caterer was pacified, and again persuaded to resume the keys of office; and while the decanters   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      - 35 reflected their pale, ruby hues around, no one would have believed that that assembly was aught else than a band of brothers, afloat upon the high seas. " Can't some garrulous person say something interest- ing," said the fat lieutenant, after there had been a few ,moments' quiet. "OO, yes," replied Noly; "I'll name the man. Now, then, every body drink and nobody talk, and let's hear that yarn the purser wanted to twist yesterday." ce What yarn? , said the surprised commissary, who had scarcely opened his lips during dinner, and was busy cracking Brazil nuts, and carefully paring the cuti- cles from the triangular kernels. "Why, that embassy to which you were attache, in the East Indies, on board the Splinter; let's hear it, fellows, for the purser don't get a chance to talk often; and so keep perfect silence." Just at this moment, the surgeon's steward hastened into the gun room, and reported to Nickles that a marine had been taken with-fits. "Hit him on the head with a top maul," said the fleet, decidedly, as he winked over his wine glass at his own make-believe inhumanity, and desired his subs to "fix the sojer off." Hereupon a slight altercation ensued between the junior doctors, which was not quelled until Broken- berry rapped -the table with the nut crackers, and in ia i   oou     TALES FOR--- THE MARI-NES. voice as if from the gallery of a theatre, declared there was a " nigger in the pit.' Thereupon Ladders was persuaded to leave his des- sert for a time, and betake himself on an errand of mercy and medicine, to the sick bay. Fred, said the Lieutenant, as he clapped both hands on his knees, and screwed up his lips, as if he had a bad taste in- his mouth-Fred, there's been a great amelioration in medical practice these last twenty years. I remember when they always dosed the reefers with horse salts, scraped out of a barrel; and if we stood in need of any purifying compounds, we were treated to sarsaparilla roots, boiled down with treacle sirup, in iron pots;- while the lieutenants quaffed the purest crystallized Epsom, and were soothed with the expressed fluid extract of Swaim's Panacea. You see what a difference rank makes, my boy, in these medicinal phases of luxury; and I'd advise you to get to'be a lieutenant as soon as ever your constitution will bear it. I could wish, too, that the old Spanish ordi- nances might be revived which decreed that doctors should not be paid except when they had cured their patients, and that all medical attendants should head the funeral processions of those who died in their hands. We might even adopt the laws now in vogue among the Chinese, who only fee the physicians while in good condition, and severely bamboo them on the soles of their feet when an unfortunate slips through their fingers.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      337 "Come, Mr. Harry, go on with your yarn; don't be tedious, for it's getting late," quietly remarked the gentle matron. As the Lieutenant was conscious of being the best hen-pecked husband in his part of the town, he resumed his narrative without a murmur. When order once more reigned along the board, after a few shakings of the head, and a little affected side play, the purser began as follows:- '"You bright chaps never heard, perhaps, that old' Jack. Percy, the present captain of the Juniata, some few years ago, while- in the China Seas, in command of the Ironsides,"--the purser gave it the Greek em- phasis of Hron-si-des,--"learned that a fleet of four- masted junks had committed numerous audacious pira- cies on American and English traders. These events happened in the vicinity of the -Straits of Malacca and Gaspar; and Percy very naturally concluded that the perpetrators belonged to the Gulf of Siam. In fact, there was no doubt on this point, for the Hron-si-des ac- tually chased a squadron of these junks to the head of the gulf, into the port of Bankok, which was a place of some note in those parts. There the pirates, moored in line, pointed their guns through the little portholes, believing that the smaller the aperture the less chance for a shot to get in, -and there they lay, lperfectly well pleased with themselves. "Now, Mad Jack, -being, as you know, a prompt officer; that is to say,- 29   338      TALES FOR THE MARINES. 'Short were his orders, and his signals few, -Not scientific over much, or new; As having reference to little more Than just to take, or sink, or run ashore, Burn, or blow up, or otherwise annoy, Those whom he deemed his duty to destroy.' So he let the pirates have three broadsides of grape, and a few thirty-two pound shot, as fast as ever they could be poured in ; and you may safely take your oath, that the mat sails of the junks, the brightly-painted eyes in the prows, and the hulls were torn and smashed into pieces before the smoke from the guns had cleared away. During this little ball practice, some stray shot ricocheted over the water upon the beach, and so on into the town, where they played the very mischief with about forty Siamese, leaving them, it was said, only a pound of brains, half a leg, a couple of tails, and an arm, among each half dozen of the wounded. ( Although the fellows killed and maimed on shore were not actually under arms, or in a hostile attitude, it was generally known that they were, nevertheless, quite as great villains and pirates as those on board the war junks, and consequently had been properly pun- ished. A little disturbance of that nature produced a very happy effect; and, for a long time subsequently, merchant vessels pursued their voyages without molesta- tion. The affair, indeed, had been almost forgotten, when all at once there sprang up a gentleman, who called himself a native American,- in virtue of having   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      839 lived thirty years or more in China, and took it into his head, on the score of philanthropy, I believe, to investi- ,gate the business. "' After an infinite deal of trouble and time spent in collecting the facts, he returned to the United States- to preach a crusade against what he was pleased to desig- nate the ' atrocious massacre of the innocent Siamese.' "Well, old Jack being at home in the bosom of his fam- ily, and leading a quiet sort of life, away from the decks and guns of a ship, was absolutely unconscious that the crusader, whose name was Blister, was poking about among the big bugs, and that he, Jack, came within deuce ace of being turned neck and heels out of the navy. "Fortunately, however, for Percy, a fi'iend who hap- pened to be on good terms with a trump card of the po- litical pack, put in a word, and his commission was saved. But a compromise was declared in favor of Mr. Blister, -rvho was, we all knew, quite disinterested in the matter, --and he was appointed to visit Siam in the capacity of special commissioner, and charged with an ample apology from the president of the American realms, so as to restore our international relations to the same friendly footing which had formerly prevailed with those rascally pirates. "It was not mere peripatetic philanthropy which actu- ated the commissioner while trotting about the world, or simply a desire to atone for the crimes of his coun- trymen; but he had likewise a morbid inclination for   340     TALES FOR THE MARINES. extending the area of freedom by a private powwow with the Emperor of China, and thus, as he expressed it, ' open up the commerce of the East for the American eagle and the British lion.' C Heaven preserve you, gentlemen - there was never any thing known so grand as this embassy since the days of Lord Macartney or Amherst. I had orders, in my official capacity, to buy all the old patent contraptions ever invented or discovered to be worthless in the States -pistols, pen makers, daguerreotype and sewing ma- chines, pianos, pills, champagne imported from Newark, New Jersey, caoutchouc, carbines, preserved meats, steam engines on a small scale, and lots of other things, all 'put down in the bills,' and intended for presents to assist in ' opening up' the commerce of Cochin China and the adjacent kingdoms. "The Splinter took all this trash on board, and we sailed for Canton, whither the commissioner had preced- ed us, and where,-in due time, he was received by the frigate with great banging of artillery and considerable smoke. Leaving Canton River, we sailed straight for the port of Hue, the capital, I believe, of Cochin China. There was not sufficient water for the ship to get near the town; so, after some delay, and after a few boxes of pills, which had been made up expressly for the embassy, to- gether with a few baskets of the famous Jersey cham- pagne, had been given to the one feather mandarin in command, we were advised to proceed on to Saigoon.   TA LES FOR THE MARINES.      341 For some private reasons best known to the natives of this place, we were actually warned off the premises; not, however, until after a plentiful quantity of the pat- ent pills and wine had been, as before, presented to a two feather mandarin. ," Finding that nothing of consequence was to be made at Saigoon, and that the ship's provisions were getting low, we tripped anchor in self-defence, to 'open up' the commerce elsewhere. "Well, we sailed, contrary to the advice of the pi- lots, who declared that it was coming on to blow ' sky pidgeon' to ' makee sickee maintopsail.' In the first instance we got foul of a fleet of lorchers, or freight boats; and then had no sooner cleared the land than we caught a spurt of a gale, - the tip end of a typhoon,- which nearly blew the buttons off our coats, split the canvas, stove the boats, and never left us a moment's peace or comfort until we got into the Gulf of Siam, and cast anchor in the-port of Bankok, the identical spot where Jack Percy slew the pirates. " We were speedily consoled, however, by being as- sured by the commissioner that all difficulties were now drawing to a close; he would at once demand an audi- ence, deliver his credentials, go in state to the residence of the emperor, and in the end 'open the commerce sharp up.' "Buoeino! For a day or two, while preparations for an interview with the mandarins were going on, we had 29    842     TALES FOR THE MARINES. leisure to wander about the town, where the houses were all built on bamboo stilts, with the space beneath latticed for fowls and live stock, and where the general aspect of the country was marshy and filthy. "At last ahi order was passed to the officers of the frigate for all who could be spared from dtity on the fol- lowing day to attend the special commissioner, the Hon- orable Mr. Blister, at his presentation on shore. It was an awful struggle in that hot climate to haul on a full dress coat, loaded with bullion and lace, and to ship a cocked hat that made a man fairly squint with its sharpness. But there was no help for us, and just at high noon we got into the boats, and, accompanied by a numerous fleet of sampans, struck out for the shore. 'e On landing we were received by a guard of about twenty soldiers, with matchlocks, blue cotton pea-jack- ets, and cylindrical black hats, full four feet high. A very fierce-looking guard it was. There were sedan chairs on the beach also; but as there were only enough for the commissioner, the captain, and his staff, why, the rest of us snobs had to plunge in their wake through the mud. "Luckily, we had not a great distance to walk ; and, upon gaining the principal open space of the town, we were ushered up a broad piazza, spread with mats of different colors overhead for an awning, where we were posted until the Siamese dignitaries should arrive, and enter the audience chamber.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      343 "There was a pretty dense crowd in the square in front of us, and any one acquainted with the Siamese idiom must have been highly delighted at the remarks volun- teered to the fan-qui-los, or he foreign devils. "Presently, however, there was a shrill shout, accom- panied by the rattling of drums; and from a lane on the opposite side of the square, appeared a troop of soldiers, habited all the same as our body guard, only their fun- nel-shaped hats were half a yard higher. These were followed by a gang of drummers, with little graduated drums of wood, of different sizes, so as to preserve a scale of sound when all beat in time. Then came a band of fellows, like masqueraders, bedizened in the queerest fashion, and bearing silver-gilt wooden swords, at least ten feet long, which they flourished, as they ca- pered along, with expressive fury. In the rear of these merry-andrews were two led horses, richly caparisoned, and at their heels a line of palanquins; the headmost with eight bearers, denoting a mandarin of high caste, while the whole procession was closed by more soldiers and the rabble. "They all marched slowly up and down before the pi- azza where- we stood, the masquers threw somersaults, and then the mandarins were assisted very tenderly out of their gayly-painted and gilded palanquins ; and as they marched sedately up one flight of stepsj we moved up another, and entered the hall of reception. "It was a pretty large apartment; but since the Siam   344      TALES FOR THE MARINES.' ese consider it rather derogatory to their -dignity to sit 'in the salne room with barbarians, wie were placed in a large alcove adjoining, but in full view of the natives, who were seated in double semicircular rows before us, the chief mandarin being a little in advance of his ad- visers. This individual, by the way, was a person of great distinction, for he had a large gold button on top of his skullcap, and three peacock's feathers bending and waving over his face, showing at a glance that -he was some distant connection of the sun and woon, or at least related to the asteroids. His companions, though indi- viduals of high caste, were not of equal rank, and there was nothing very remarkable about them, except that they wore very long tails, blue silk overcoats, thick- soled shoes, and had their eyes very much turned up at the corners. "I must not omit to mention that the presents for the emperor had all preceded us to the town, and were ranged along the walls of the audience chamber in great profusion. There they were -pistols, pens, pills, In- dia rubber shoes, tents and blankets, daguerreotypes, et cetera. There was, in addition- to these presents, a model locomotive, which Mr. Blister had intended to start whizzing, under actual steam, before the very eyes of the emperor himself; but, by some unforeseen acci- dent, the, boiler had not been included in the box, and as the ship's armorer could not make one, the machine was exhibited without, and no doubt succeeded quite as   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      345 well in astonishing the natives as if it had been going under a full head of vapor, at the rate of sixty miles the hour. "We had also an interpreter, who was brought all the way from Canton. He was a very clever person, and with a stock of about five hundred English words, could impart the most intricate narrative, after his way, upon any subject, moral, practical, or metaphysical, and quite intelligibly too. c( When all the arrangements had been effected, the Chinese squatted on the mosaic floors, and intense si- lence prevailed. At a sign from the gold button digni- tary, we all nodded like tipsy pendulums. Our ambas- sador then stepped forth, and, through the interpreter, observed that he experienced great happiness in making. the acquaintance of the mandarins, and he had come a long way to have that pleasure; whereupon the three- feather personage wagged hisjhead and tail towards his friends, and replied ' Chin-chin,'- that is, 'Glad to hear it.' "There was then a considerable pause; for these Cochin Chinese are a polite people, and have colleges to educate their youth in that branch of learning, which would not injure the manners of some of you fellows," added the commissary, as he nodded over to Montacute and Brokenberry, who were making sotto voce sneers at his narrative, ringing finger bowls, jingling glasses, and the like annoying aimusements.   546     TALES FOR THE MARINES. The purser continued: "By and by Mr. Blister opened his gas battery again, and desired to have the honor of entertaining them with a brief speech. "s sChin-chin.'  "So he harangued them at length; began with Con- fucius and the evils of gunpowder; glanced at the arts, the Tartar wall, pestilence, and pirates; concluding by contrasting the horrors of war with the blessings of peace, and the sincere desire cherished by our people to ' open up the commerce into Cochin China and the ad- jacent regions. ," At the same time he demanded leave to read the letter of apology fi'om the President of the United States to the Emperor of the Celestials. Chin-chin9 was uttered the third time, and while the Chinamen pulled out their fans from the backs of their necks and began quietly to fan themselves, our envoy, Blister, produced the richly-bound case that contained his credentials, and cutting the silk cords, down rolled the parchment, with a huge red seal as big as a biscuit, and blue ribbons dangling at the ends. It was one of the prettiest and most portentous documents from an outside view you ever saw. ' I don't remember precisely the words of this im- portant missive; nor was there, as I learned since, a single copy of it preserved in the archives of the de- partment of state; but the pith of the communication was, a warm panegyric upon the Celestials, a reciprocity   TALES FOR THE. MARINES      347 of souls in a commercial point of view, the grief felt upon hearing that one of our sea mandarins had mur- dered, with fri'ghtful artillery, the innocent and friendly subjects of the emperor, and urgently requesting that potentate to think no more about it, but to be comforted and be friends again. "' Hi-yah!' said the three-feather gold button, with the slightest touch of surprise, after this despatch had been carefully rendered, word for word. (Hi-yah' softly murmured the other nobs, as their tails vibrated, and they all moved rather uneasily on the- mats, and seemed to be a little disturbed at the information just imparted to them. "Meanwhile our commissioner was radiant with joy; his eyes sparkled, a smile overspread his face, as if he was in a profuse perspiration of happiness, and we all waited, in the confident belief that the commerce was to be ' opened up ' in five minutes at-the furthest. "Still there was a decorous interval before any reply came, the mandarins merely intimating that, as there would be some time to elapse before they could give a satisfactory answer to so momentous a message, they would advise us to throw off our cloth coats and heavy raiment. Now, with the thermometer at parboiling heat, you may rest satisfied that we were not slow in taking advantage of this polite suggestion, all save Lieu- tenant Swayback, who candidly admitted that, since he did not belong to a clean shirt family, he would not   348      TALES FOR THE MARINES. risk an exposure of the arcana of his vestments to please any body, not -even Buddha himself. He consoled himself, however, with a sip of cooling sam-shou, fiery enough to scald the back off an armadillo. " All this period the mandarins sat with the corners of their eyes unnaturally turned up, even for them, nod- ding one to another, and using their fans unceasingly. They did not use these instruments on all occasions for their faces, for sometimes they would raise the skirts of their blue frocks, and vibrate the fans underneath, so as to-keep a cool circulation all around, during the heat of their deliberations. "By the way, let me tell you that your true Chinaman can do nothing in life without a fan. Indeed, I once beheld about two thousand of these natives at Canton under immense excitement, with each a brickbat in one hand, ready to dash out the foreigners' brains, and fan- ning themselves with the other as if they never would get another chance. C"Presently, however, the mandarins let fall the hems of their garments, closed the fans, thrust them in the cases back of their necks, shook their tails and feathers in place, and having given orders to a scribe of their party, he went behind a curtain for a .space, and then returned with a little roll of rice paper, which was handed with extreme politeness to the gold button. 'Chin-chin,' he uttered softly, as he handed the paper to his coadjutors, who said 'Chin-chin' also.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      349 "' Now, gentlemen,' said our commissioner, with nmuch complacency, ' there's nothing like republican di- plomacy. Come out plain and blunt, and the affair is settled at once. Observe, in former times it took a month or a year to get a reply from these people; but now these shrewd fellows have made up their minds in a twinkling, and when the ' commerce is opened up,' there will be no bounds to the wealth in store for us.' "He had hardly finished these remarks when, by a sign from the gold button, the interpreter took the roll of rice paper, opened it, and immediately gave utterance to the literal translation in these awful words:- "Lookee! mandarin lik-ee talk ver-ee mush; same tim-ee, no man killee heire; all lie-e. Emperor no wantee see him. Go away-ee. No com   bak-ee no more.9 "No sooner was this communication made than the mandarins exclaimed, 'Chin-chin,' and rising in a body from the mosaic floor, moved off in their usual po- lite way, thus breaking up the conference. Mean- while we stood attentively regarding our special com- missioner, Mr. Blister, who was rosy with rage, and who ground out, as the last blue frock of the high mandarins rustled out of the chamber, ' You long-tailed, stale egg eating, treacherous villains, you're afraid if the emperor hears that any of his subjects have been killed, that he'll chop off your heads at the announcement.' "So we put on our coats, countermarched back to the 30   850     TALES FOR THE MARINES. frigate, and sailed away from Bankok; and to the best of my knowledge and'belief, that was as far as ever we got to C opening up the commerce' in the -dominions of the Cochin Chinese. ' "Hi-yah," added the purser, as he swallowed the last of his nuts, and then pitched what he called a ".man drink " -  a large glass of port - down after them, while the majority of the mess spoke derisively of his recent efforts to entertain them. Speaking of Jack Percy," said Sam Jackstones, "I've heard a professional tradition of something which happened to him when in command of the Pappoose, one gun schooner, in the West Indies."        / "Long -story?" inquired Noly. "No, short story," said Jackstones. "Break stops, then." "Why, Percy was first lieutenant; the surgeon had been ill with a constipation for a couple of weeks or more; so he made his will, and having been on cool terms with old Jack, sent for him, made his peace, and gave himself up to be disposed of as he, Percy, should direct. Jack affirmed he could cure the poor man; so he had him plumped into the galley coppers, adminis- tered a gross of grains of calomel, then boiled him, and finally had him kneaded by a couple of stout negro cooks. It may surprise you to hear that this mild treat- ment had the desired effect, and the surgeon entirely recovered; but he hated Jack Percy malignantly ever afterwards."   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      851 {"Don't wonder,' said Montacute; " he should have assassinated that first lieutenant the moment he had strength to wield a jackknife." c' Now I'll tell you something very amusing indeed," said young Ladders, who had just returned froum the sick bay; but at that moment the sharp taps of the drums were heard on the gun deck for evening divisions, and, rising from the mahogany, the sea officers buckled on their swords, and left the gun room comparatively deserted I am getting dry, added the narrator; in which his audience concurred, and the party broke up. '\. i,   .   .     CHAPTER --X. FOR some days longer the frigate drifted slowly on her course, until one night the quicksilver of the barom- eter began to retire within the low'er bulb, and before the day broke, the ship was under close-reefed topsails, a pale blue corposan on each spindle of the mastheads, and attended by such crashing thunder and lightning as is only enjoyed in the vicinity of the Rio de la Plata. The gale, however, was fair, and dashing boldly into the mouth of the broad river, we passed Lobos Island the same day, and the following morning we cast anchor off Montevideo. At the time I was standing on the Colombine's poop, iborrowing a spy glass every half minute from the quar- ter master on duty, for Antonietta to peep about at the low, unwooded country, where there was nothing to relieve the monotony save the swelling hillock of the mount to the west, while the city, in the opposite bear- ing, lay a mass of white, flat houses. Their azoteas were enlivened with the inhabitants, who, old and young, were amusing themselves in the innocent recre- ation of flying kites. The anchor had scarcely touched bottom,---and a (352)   TALES FOR THE MARINES.  -   8 ' 53 very little way it had to go, -before, to my chagrin, I heard the commodore say to his flag lieutenant, c"Make signal for the Juniata to weigh and to send a boat on board for despatches."  The order was promptly exe- cuted; the bits of gay bunting were bent on, hoisted, shook oust, and presently a pennant answered the signal from the corvette. "Gringo," said Montacute, "you'd better pack up your traps, for there's no time to lose, if you intend to rest in Mad Jack's bosom this cruise." In a few minutes I was in readinessr had taken a ten- der leave of Antonietta,---- -",Don't say tender," said one of the Lieutenant's fair auditors--she with the pretty ankles - it is always associated with beefsteaks in my mind." Well, then, continued the narrator, I gently squeezed the little flirt's "No, don't say squeezed either," persisted the damsel; "that reminds me of 'lemons; say you pressed her hand." O, of course; I pressed her hand, and soon after I was on the deck of my own ship. Hwas not received, however, with that degree of affectionate ardor which I somehow anticipated, nor was I indeed noticed in any way except by Rox. That youth put his- head up the main hatch ladder, like a spectre, and exclaimed, - "You confounded skulk, hurry and get tea, and relieve me; recollect, too, that you'll have the middle watch." 80s   354     TALES FOR THE MARINES. The men were at the bars of the capstan, and Cap- tain John Percy, with his black whalebone cane in hand, was touching up the marines and afterguard in their bunts, treating them the while, as they danced round before. him, to some of his choicest precepts, so as to encourage them to get the anchor to the bows in double quick time. "Heave, boys," he began, with a singing, shrillish tone; " heave, my dear boys -one shoulder under the bars--stand well out--there she comes --don't jam the messenger -keep the. palls up." Here the whalebone cane would be playing the devil's tattoo on the tight trousers of the men, and his voice would rise shriller-and higher, until it gained a current of perfect yells. "Heave, I say! you lazy bones! you infernal town meeting democrats! Take that, you lubber! kill that nigger! Up with the anchor, I say! ' With such persuasive pleadings and practice, it was no matter of wonder that the chain came rumbling quickly in to the hawse holes, and then c"Anchor's a-weigh!" and "Anchor's up!" following in rapid suc- cession from the officer on the forecastle. c"Unship the bars! hoist the jib! let fall.!" was roared through the trumpet to the sail loosers on the yards, and instantly the folds of the courses and topsails swelled out from the gaskets, the sheets rolled home like magic; and as the order was given to "hoist away the topsails," the   TALES FOR TILE MARINES.      355 yards rose without a pause to the mastheads. The lof- tier canvas was then spread, and with the yards properly trimmed, the ship fell off to the breeze, and we passed close under the stern of the frigate. I had only time to exchange one hasty wave of the hand with Antoni- etta, as the young beauty stood with her kerchief to her eyes, surrounded by officers; but whether she was laughing or crying, I don't know; at the time I of course believed she was sublimed in tears. On the corvette went, studding sails spread on both sides, and in a couple of hours we lost sight of the Co- lombine, and I was again pursuing the same liquid road I had so lately passed over.  On first getting on board, I reported myself to the captain; but the only satisfaction I received was to have my ears sharply pulled till my eyes watered, and gruffly told to have my 6" hair cropped so close that a pair of pinchers couldn't nip one of 'em." The first lieutenant also seemed to be in an equally amiable mood, for he observed, with a frown, that if he ever found my hanimotk as much neglected as it had been since I left, he'd quarantine me for a Dutch- dog watch; meaning thereby the cruise. Escaping from the quarter deck, I made a straight wake forward, to seek a little sympathy from my sweet- tempered friend, Jack Gracieux. He was standing- on the topgallant forecastle, intently peering through his   356     TALES FOR THE MARINES, eye glass at the rapidly-receding shore, but, as I discov- ered, in no enviable frame of mind either. "Split my canvas!" said he; "half a dozen pairs of duck trousers gone, and as many fine shirts as' ever were seen in New Spain; to say nothing of minor valuable gear. Alas for my shirts! that is my greatest grief; I have a fondness for shirts, particularly for linen ones, for there's a constitutional whiteness about linen which common dingy, yellow, plebeian cotton can never attain. However, it will be a warning to me never to trust a washing person whose physical structure in the least com- pares with mine. Indeed, I shall, I fear, be obliged th take a mental measurement of all laundry women's legs, lest they devote my trousers to some unfeminine use." Here observing me looking up into his face, he con- tinued, - "Why, younker, I'm ruined; but if I had been blessed with such a miserable pair of little trotters as those lucifer matches of yours, I could not reasonably fear any abstractions from my wardrobe; and now just oblige me by jumping down off this ladder, or I'll-- " "Man the fore tacks, and stand by to let fall the fore- sail," came from the trumpet; and finding that even Jack Gracieux wished to get rid of me, I stole aft again. Going below, along the berth deck, I found Tom Slade stretched out in the gunner's state room, which, as he jocosely observed, he liked far better than the   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      357 gunner's company. Slade had lost clothes also by the sudden departure of the corvette -a loss which from appearances he could ill afford. His outer man was cov- ered with a blanket, which being of small dimensions, in order effectually to screen his person, he had his big toe stuck through one corner of it, while the diagonal point was held fast in his teeth, " slightly impeding his articulation," he remarked, 'but still answering every purpose of health, comfort, and convenience." "Are you under hatches and arrested?"I ventured to inquire. "Not exactly arrested,"' he rejoined, "but my affairs of late have assumed so threatening an aspect, that a body of gentlemen, seven or five strong, I really forget which, assembled in full uniform around the cabin table, where, after, as they wrote, 'a careful investigation of numerous accounts and mercantile vouchers, they felt bound to allow all dividends.' Accordingly, my small friend, they decided that I should be declared a bank- rupt, sent to the home station by the first convenient' opportunity, and henceforth be permitted to take a final adieu of the public service. "And now," he added, " if you'll hand me that tum- bler of whiskey out of the locker, and shut the door care- fully when you go out, I shall be delighted never to see you again." In the steerage, after all hands had been piped down, matters seemed to be worse.   It was known that the   H0U     TALES FOR THE MARINES. ship was bound to the Falkland Islands and cold weather. Bonny Davie was bewailing the loss of a case of gin, which, after due consultation, had been ordered from the city, instead of a pea jacket; to keep his blood in circu- lation. In the first ten minutes I got into a fight with one of my tow-headed messmates at the table, and a black eye to enhance my beauty, for simply insisting upon a fair share of the flapjacks. Towards night, however, when Mickey Maginnis came down to hang up my hammock, and Kit Dolphin, the dear old piebald faced soul, found time to embrace me at the steerage bulkhead, I was so glad to see them once more, that I soon forgot the contused glim and the miseries of a man-of-war's steerage. The time wore on with the ordinary detestable mo- notony of a life at sea, and sailing well in with the Patagonian coast, in about twenty days we bore away from the bleak iron-capped hills of Staten Land for the Falkland Islands., Why we came to this out-of-the-way group I never found out. Some said, to harig the gov- ernor for not allowing the sealers to steal cattle, and others to- take formal possession of the islands. Be that as it may, all we did, if my memory serves me, for many weeks, was to knock over penguins and geese with boat hooks, and shoot bullocks and wild fowl upon the plains. In place of hanging the governor, we found him one of the pleasantest fellows in the South Seas; and in the lit- tle shed where he bivouacked, surrounded by his body   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      359 guard and garrison of some eight or ten individuals, we drank his liquids and toasted our toes over his fire daily. Whatever may have been our mission, it appeared to terminate honorably to all parties; and so, one chill, dreary day, with the coops crammed with geese, the laupch packed with a small drove of bullocks, whose horns had a very ominous look over the gunwale of the boat, we tripped our anchor and left the Islas Malvinas. For nearly a year and a half after this visit, we were kept on the full run between Rio Janeiro, Pernambuco, and Montevideo, touching at times at Santos, St. Catha- rine's, and Praya Grande, but hardly ever remaining long enough in port to take even a daguerreotype im- pression of either of them. It was no sooner drop anchor, than take in water and provisions, and off again with despatches, or what not.  Once it was roundly as- serted by the boatswain, that we were sent for a salt water wig for the commodore's wife's sister, a romantic young lady of about forty-three winters, who  had in remote times been beloved by Carrera, on the Spanish Main, and who had, ever since, taken remarkable care of her toilet and coiffure. In some instances it was thought she carried the passion too high, and wore her bib an inch or two too low for a damsel of her complexion. In all these cruisings of eighteen  months we  had never yet been to Buenos Ayres; and in consequence of this forgetfulness on the part of the government, I was still pining for Antonietta. At last a terrible com-   360      TALES FOR THE MARINES. motion was bruited in that city, and it was deemed ex- pedient to send a ship there, to afford, if required, a little aid and comfort to our countrymen who might chance to stand in need of it. We were lying at Montevideo at the time, and when the order came, a jack was hoistdd at the fore for a pilot, while the bow gun gave loud notice of it. Presently there came on board a stout, rosy-cheeked, black-eyed old fellow, as fat as a carp, who, with the air of a courtier of Louis le Debonnaire's reign, doffed his glazed sombrero to Mad Jack, who was standing at the gangway to receive him. He was evidently of the grande nation. "Are you a regular pilot?" was Percy's first saluta- tion; " and what's your name?" " Oui, mosseu! name Polarbitz." "sWell, Mr. Powderbitch, I am bound up the river, and if you run the ship ashore I'll shoot you! that's all." "Sacre, sair, zat not all! no, s'pose you shoot, I shoot back, and me name Polarbitz, sair," retorted the old trump, between his teeth, with a flash of the eye, as he looked the captain full in the face. ",Bueno, returned the latter, quite delighted to have found some hitch upon the pilot; "very good, Mr. Powderwitch; let's be off at once." The individual thus addressed stood a moment, re- garding the captain with an angry gaze, as he turned with   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      361 a grin into his cabin - then throwing his right arm into position, as if a small sword was squirming about in somebody's lungs, he muttered a few strong expletives in his native tongue, and slowly mounting the poop lad- der, gave directions for weighing. Sail was soon made; but before getting clear of the harbor, the wind fell, and there we lay becalmed on the back of the muddy, flat river, quite motionless. The sky was clear as a bell, but the atmosphere was as hot, oppressive, and- sultry as the breath of a sirocco on the coast of Tunis; and here we staid, without budging an inch, from ten in the morning until four hours past noon. The old pilot had declined his dinner, and did noth- ing but take snuff violently, as he paced up and down the poop. Occasionally he would pause in his walk, look anxiously towards the west, and then resume his promenade. Having apparently made up his mind as to the appearance of things, he quickly descended the lad- der, and putting his head in the cabin window, he said, -                         : "Capitain, you will have a devele of ze breeze; you had bettair drop down two anchor and all ze topmast." "What for?"  exclaimed old Jack with a sneer, as he glanced over his shoulder at the sympiesometer. "Ze pampero," replied the pilot, as he clapped his steeple-crowned sombrero on his head, put a pinch of snuff into his mouth by mistake, instead of his nose, and again sought his station in a furious rage. 31   TALES FOR THE MARINES. Now, you see that Percy, as stubborn an old flint as he undoubtedly was, was yet a sailor, every inch of him. He rarely despised a warning, come how it would; and his own excellent judgment upon nautical matters gen- erally carried him clear of the blunders which other men were foolishy wrecked upon. On this occasion, however, there really did not seem, to all human vision, any thing to require the vessel to be stripped of her sails, the masts housed, and anchors down; for a clearer after- noon, and a brighter or more cloudless sky, was not to be found any where on the globe. "Zair is dam leetel time to lose, sair," again suggested the pilot, with a decided tone. "'All right, Mounseer Powderbreech," said Percy, coolly, and at the same time maliciously; "but when are we to look for this pampero? and what do you judge from, eh? ' "My name, sair, for ze last time, is Polar-r-r-r-bitz," making the r's burr like a humming top, " and I zay zat I feel ze pampero in ze bones, like you feel ze bet on ze cards at monte! ah, ha! sacre tonnerre! voila, see him com over Ensenada- dam!" While he spoke, away-to the west, where the mirage of the trees on the opposite side of the river was visible, we beheld a purple roll of clouds just verging above the horizon. Towards the centre of the stream  an arch of the same purplish-colored vapor began to lift its back above water, until it had risen a considerable height, v *   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       8i63 and both ends of the span stretched from side -to side of the mighty river. It rose, however, very slowly; and when its form became well developed, it presented one heavy, dark rope of clouds, the edges rough and ragged, like a mass of coarse wool, which all came rolling round and round, in a continuous whirlwind of dust and mist. Old Percy needed but one glance at this singular phe- nomenon before he gave the requisite orders to clew up, furl every thing, send down light yards and top-gallant masts, and to house topmasts.  Both bower anchors were at the same time let go under foot, with a great scope of chain on each, ready on deck to veer when the squall struck us.  The men worked like beavers, and for twenty minutes there was nothing heard but the sway- ing, unfidding, and housing of masts, sending down the heavy gear and light sails from  aloft, and getting the topsail yards upon the forward rims of the tops. During this interval, the Juniata lay, as before, mo- tionless on the shining surface of the yellow river, with- out a ripple, and wondering, no doubt, why she was thus stripped of her pinions and crippled in her arms. Meanwhile, the dark, ominous bow came slowly up, revolving as on its rising, and tinged at times by a sick- ly, murky flame, reflected from the sun. On it came, obscuring the sun itself for a full minute, as it passed before the disk, until the mighty arch fairly spanned the zenith for the whole diameter of. the horizon. Still there was not a breath of wind.   364      TALES FOR THE MARINES. "Well, pilot," said Mr. Hope, as he leaned listlessly against the mizzen rigging, " that queer-looking dust bow-has passed over without a puff, and we've had all the trouble for nothing." 6"Noting, eh?" returned M. Polarbitz, while he care- fully removed his wig from his head and buttoned it up in the breast of his coat. "Hombug, eh?" he contin- ued; "zen, by dam, Jean Paul Polarbitz lie like ze devele  Mais, Mistaire Lieutenant, what you see by ze mount zere? Ah, ha!" "Every one lay down from aloft!" shouted Mr. Hope; c(not even a top keeper in the tops! Down every body!" In the direction the pilot pointed, there was a wave coming along over the water, like a huge roller just breaking with its cust of spray upon a shelving shore of an ocean beach, only in place of the light, clear blue or bottle green, it was of a muddy yellow, with a thick, dirty mist hanging over it, as if, like a net, it was attract- ed by the sombre arch in the heavens. It was accom- panied, too, by a low, moaning roar, as if a great drove of wild bulls were bellowing to us from the pampas. It moved in a straight line, never turning or curving, but regular as the advance of a regiment of grenadier guards; and rushing on as if to fill a vacuum, it struck the cor- vette, like a clap of thunder, broad on the beam. It was old Boreas himself, who   TALES FOR THE MARINES.        365 "- --in passion spoke these huffing things; And as he spoke he shook his dreadful wings; At which afar the shivering sea was fanned, And the wide surface of the distant land.," The Lieutenant was fond of quoting poetry; but being discouraged by his audience, he usually refrained. If I say, he proceeded, that the first jar fairly hurled the ship's stern eighty feet, I am persuaded I should be well within the mark. Indeed, a few of us thought she had gone bodily up into the air, and some of the marines vouched to having seen the bottom of the river itself, as the roll- er, with its volume of mud and water, dashed clean over the bulwarks, stove the quarter boat and weather ham- mock nettings, and swept all before it on the decks. The next instant, however, the ship swung to the influence of the tornado, the slack cables which had been ranged along the waist flew out in a stream of fire, wrenching off the heads of the bits, twisting the stout compress- ors in the tiers like so much bird cage wire, and never stopping till the last links clinched to the kelson were brought up with a surge that tore away the main hatch combings, and made the Juniata quiver to the heart. The pampero raged with tremendous violence for more than an hour, while heavy clouds filled the sky almost to blackness; and then gradually the wind veered round to the south-west, settled down into a hard gale, and blew great guns for three days. Towards the close of this entertainment Hr. Polarbitz dined   with Captain 31*   366      TALES FOR THE MARINES. Percy, and before we reached our destination they were sworn friends, though Percy would still persist in call- ing the pilot out of his name. At Buenos Ayres we anchored in the outer roads, nearly seven miles from the city. We could barely see the white towers of the churches and buildings of the town, as they seemed to loom up from the water itself, for, save by the effect of mirage, the land was rarely vis- ible. It was always a tedious pull to reach the city; and  even then we only passed from one water vehicle to an- other, for the banks of -the river were so low and shal- low, and so filled with tuscas, - pointed ridges of hard clay, - that we were obliged to get from the boats into huge ungainly carts of hide, with enormous wheels, and thus be rolled to the dry land. Before leaving Rio on our last visit, I had gone rather extensively into the fan business; that is to say,;I had purchased an abanico of the pearliest hue, fringed with down, and the leaves painted in a style that might not have displeased old Isabey himself. I had impoverished myself, also, at the diamond marts, by a pair of brilliant eardrops,--which have been the cause of perpetual discord between that lady there with the baby and my- self, Fred, whispered' the narrator, - all for a trifling souvenir of friendship -or, as Antonietta prettily said, "uno pequeno recado de:amistad " - to my wilful sweet- heart. These treasures I usually wore in my jacket pockets,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.    -  367 so as to be ready at a moment's notice to deliver; and I believe on my soul that I looked earnestly for the little creole in efvry boat which came alongside, believing, in the warmth of my love, that she would- be inconsolable until we met. The first day, however, I was disappointed, for there was never a petticoat afloat. The next we assisted in burying the captain of a French ship of war - Espiaux was his name; and he it was who, when a boy, behaved so bravely at the wreck of the Medusa. On landing we were all marched in procession-; and notwithstanding the azoteas and the grilles of the heavy Spanish windows were thronged with mantillas, waving fans, and lovely faces, yet I could not detect those large, lustrous, black orbs of my little brunette. I am confident that not one who followed that gallant old sailor to the grave present- ed any thing like the picture of woe that I did. But what added to my sorrow, and indignation likewise, was to be informed by a French midshipman, with a toss of the chin and a rattle of the coil of gold aiguillettes on his shoulder, in reply to my question if he knew the family of my sweetheart, "Ah, oui, certainement! The eldest daughter was quite frappee with me before they left town." If I had not been rather .a small-sized-person, and witnesses present, I  should have doubled up that French aspirant on the spot. Buenos Ayres, at the period I speak of, was, as it were, just simmering down to a state of tranquillity. Rosas'   368      TALES FOR THE MARINES. had done all the fighting and assumed the supreme dic- tatorship. Many of the disaffected party had not, how- ever, yet returned to the city, and among them the fam- ily of Antonietta. Order was a good deal talked of in the papers, but it did not wholly prevail. In fact, dur- ing the day the streets were filled with strolling guacho vagabonds, who dashed at a break-neck speed up and down, fresh from the Indian and civil wars with their leader. At night the serenos kept close in the angles of the houses, with their lanterns -strapped to their girdles, while they. held forth their villanous long pikes, against friends or foes alike, and crying the hour, with, "Son las dope, tres hombres asasinados, y noche serena,"- very fine evening, three, men killed; and generally concluding with, "Death to the Unitarians!" At the same time, these Spanish Charleys never went out of their way to arrest the leperos and robbers, who made light of dealing a thrust of a cuchillo, or plundering whomsoever they chose to attack. The Plaza, however, on Sunday evenings and days of grand funcion, was tolerably well filled by the creole beauties of the city, and with their large shell combs, - full five feet, many of them, in span, - they moved be- fore the palace as a Spanish girl only can move, on their arched feet, with their robes and- mantillas gracefully flowing around them. Our rendezvous on shore was at a boarding house *kept by a Mrs. Bells. She was a kindly Milesian lady,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      369 who, I believe, had fought under Whitelock, and been retained after the capitulation as a hostage. Although Mrs. Bells was a motherly, good creature, and did not permit the reefers to get very deep in her debt, yet we all had a greater admiration for her adopted daughter Brigheda, or Miss Biddy, as we did her into Saxon. She was, indeed, our especial favorite; for a nicer, better girl never lived, and I'm not positive at this minute if I did not fall full as much in love with her as with the little 'runaway brunette. Biddy was half Irish, half Spanish, with fine dark-gray eyes, an earnest manner, and withal a rich, plaintive voice, which makes a man love a woman in the dark. It is a good many years ago since I heard that Biddy married, and wandered away from the land of her adoption; but wherever she went, I am persuaded that the man who won her never had cause to repent his bargain. For the long period we lay in the roads of Buenos Ayres the officers had week and week about on shore, so that we had a fair opportunity of mingling in creole life to advantage.  Equestrian performances were our  X chief delight; and since horses were sold for three dol- lars apiece, we went rather extensively into that species of merchandise. One morning very early, in company with a   reefer from an English frigate, we mounted our steeds for a gallop. We had been up all night, dancing at a tertu- lia, -and we  thought a little wholesome jolting would \x-   l7U 0TALES FOR THE MARINES. tranquillize our nerves, and give us an appetite for breakfast. We raced through the Alameda and along the banks of the river for a while, and then turned our heads to- wards the Retiro, a large open space on the outskirts of the town. While traversing this place, and picking our way amid the mounds, ditches, and carcasses of dead cattle, pur attention became fixed upon a battalion of some two hundred infantry, drawn- up in. firont of the high walls of an adjoining barrack. A couple of priests, in long black gowns and skullcaps, camne oput of a small gateway, preceded by boys carrying long, lighted tallow torches, the flames from which flared and smoked in the young beams of the rising sun. We checked our horses, while the chant of the Salve, Domine, rose in hoarse, measured strains from the lips of the priests and their attendants, and was taken up by two or three women, kneeling near, in the same melancholy, though shriller chorus. At this moment the quick. tap of a drum broke into the chant ; the troops, who were standing at ease, drew up in line in open order, and a sergeant went along the ranks distributing cartridges out of a leathern bucket. " Carga ! I said the adjutant; and for a minute the men were occupied in loading their pieces ;, and nothing was seen or heard but the glistening of the steel ram- rods, and the dull sound of- ramming home the car- tridges. While this operation was going on, the priests   TALES FOR TPE MARINES.      371 approached a little ridge of uneven ground, which had been thrown up, apparently, from a. ditch on the other side; and when the pieces were charged, the battalion filed to the right and -left of the main entrance to the barracks. The great timber gates swung back, and though, from our position, we could not see in, we heard the clinking of hammers upon chain shackles, and sup- posed they were knocking off the irons from prisoners. In a few moments, we found that our surmise had been correct; for pair by pair, a large concourse of Indians presently filled the open ground, between the lines -of soldiers. They were huddled together, waiting for the manacles to be taken from their companions; and a more hideous set of human beings I never beheld. Their long, matted black locks, escaping from beneath a bit of striped stuff, fell in disordered masses around their ,leaming, bloodshot eyes, pinched, yellow, parchment- ooking faces, and over their shoulders. The only cov- ,ring they had was, here and there, a tattered bit of L cotton shirt, with the sleeves knotted around their oins, leaving their tawny backs bare. Their arms were )inioned with thongs of raw hide, well up above the Ibow joint. It seemed to me an age before the irons were all dis- ngaged from. the legs of these poor wretches; but aeanwhile one of the old women, nearby, was occupied landing round the crowd a deep dish, half filled with    : ,aper cigars; awrd to add to the obligation, in one hand 'fi   po D     'I'TALE.3S 'JU'J TH. MAR{INES.. she held a lighted machero, which she placed to the lips of the smokers. I never saw such intense satisfaction as spread over the ugly faces of those swarthy, filthy Indios, as they drew in long breaths of the grateful smoke, and then ejected it in volumes from the nose and mouth, with a deep "oogh."  Many of them smiled, too, showing their teeth like the sharp fangs of a blood- hound. Presently the drums beat a long roll; and then, with a marching tap, the battalion advanced in two columns, with the prisoners slouching along between them. We presumed that there was to be a flogging, or an execu- tion, at most; but we were not prepared for the whole- sale massacre we presently witnessed. There were scarcely a dozen persons besides, the troops, priests, women, and ourselves, in the great open square; and we sat on our horses, looking with extreme wonder and curiosity, and moving a little ahead of the procession. "t Halta!" sung out the adjutant, with a wave of his sword; more orders followed --the, battalion was formed in double ranks--a sergeant's guard stepped forward a few yards from the left, while the prisoners stood beside the padres. The drums rolled; an officer, with a paper in his hand, walked towards the Indians, touched the seven foremost of the group with his finger, anrid motioning those selected to the ridge, they shuffled to the 'designated spot. "Cuidado . , yelled out the adjutant-" cuidado,   TALES FOR THE MARINES*      373  Ligleses!"- Look out, Englishmen I - and perceiving that we were the individuals alluded to, and that we were directly in the line of fire, we at once leaped the dry ditch, and wheeled to the rear of the troops. By this time the victims had- reached the raised earth, and there stood gazing about, while the padres again chanted a prayer and scattered holy water over the group. A lieutenant, from the company from where the guard had been taken, threw away his cigar, drew his sword; and gave utterance to two short words. "Prepara, ftego!"The discharge followed the order, and when the smoke cleared away, there was not a man standing among the before living cluster of seven, for the balls at a distance of twenty feet had done the work pretty essentially. A thin wreath or two of smoke, either from the paper cigars or burning wads, wandered for "'a few moments wavily over the bodies, and a few dark stains and streams fell, dripping, from the confused mass of limbs upon the earth beneath them; but there was not a quiver nor a groan which told of the death agony. Three more rolls of the drums, the official with the paper touched seven more of the Indians, who took their stand a little on one side of their fallen comrades, with the same stolid air of utter indifference, and suck- ing with their latest breaths the ends of the nearly con- sumed cigarritos. "Take aim-  fire!" The rolling volley, the puff  3. 82   6Si4     TALES FOR THE MARINES. of smoke and dust, the mpuskets brought to a shoulder, the men wheeled, another platoon forward, and so on. This evolution was performed nine times, and that, according to my arithmetic, makes sixty-three of God's creatures who were shot down before our eyes in cold blood at the Retiro of Buenos Ayres, one fine morning in the year of our Lord 1834. We intended to have continued our ride to the sala- dores beyond, where bullocks were slaughtered by thou- sands for their hides and tallow; but we had seen quite enough blood flow for one morning, and so we came back to the city on a run, with a very small appetite for breakfast.  That same day, however, our officers were presented to his- excellency, the benemerito of his country, Don Juan Manuel de Rosas. He received us in the palace, a large barrack of a place, fenced in by walls like a for- tress, and a deep dry ditch without. We were ushered into a moderate sized apartment with very meagre furni- ture, and chairs being particularly scarce, I seated my- self on a brass-bound trunk. Presently a side door opened, and in came, at a brisk pace, a short and rather thick-set man, with something of a German face, but with a prominent nose, as if that organ was intended to breathe through, and large gray eyes. He was dressed in a blue frock coat, with stand- ing collar, dark pantaloons, and white dressed skin shoes. There was a wild nervousness about his manner and in   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       375 his expression, and all his movements were quick and decided. In conversation he was shrewd, blunt, and attractive. "Senores," he said, " mira!" taking down from the wall a short lance, very heavy, and armed with a sharp double-edged blade -ci mira!  The Indios use this weapon, the lasso, and the bolas; those balls fastened by thongs of hide to an iron ring. You remember the old song,- "De mi lasso t'escapas, Pero mi dis bolas, Quando "- Here he whirled his arm on high, as if in the act of throwing the balls. "They hurl them  at my cavalry, trip up: the horses like ostriches, and then go in this way." Here he suited the action to the word, and dashing at the head of one of the officers, just grazing his ear, he plunged the lance into the heavy woodwork of the door- way. "Ah, no hay cuidado; never fear, my friend," he said, going on; c but those miserables carried on this species ofjuego for two campaigns, and now I am train- ing a squadron of horse to run with their fore and hinds legs lashed together like so many hares, so that they can't be overturned by the bolas, and I shall kill all the infernos of Indios." Rosas told us8 also, in alluding to the execution of the j            .  t   376     TALES FbR THE MARINES. morning, that those prisoners had risen and stabbed thleir guard on the voyage down the river, which gave him an additional incentive for sending them out of the world.  ' Vamonos," he said, at the conclusion of the inter- view; "you must -all come out and pass a week at the estancia, and Manuelita'will be glad to show you the pampas."      -                  '- I must admit, notwithstanding what I had seen of his dictatorship in the early morning, and the news that came later, how one General Quiroga insisted upon being assassinated in his own carriage, and the reward offered for the murderers by his rival, Don Juan, that I came away very favorably impressed as to the talents of Rosas for ruling the ungovernable subjects of the prov- inces. Shortly- after this interview the invitation to his coun- try seat was accepted, and, escorted by a guard, we rode about thirty miles over the level country to the quinta of Bellavista. It was a roughly built country residence, standing on the plain within sight of the river, with broad, spacious piazzas, and surrounded by mud walls and picket pens for cattle and horses: We led a very pleasant life at this villa.' We had a bullock roasted in the hide every night, which they called " carne con cuero," plenty of dulces, and, wliat was better, wine that flowed like a fountain. 'Wine! ay, such wine! broke forth the Lieu-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.    :  3" tenant, with enthusiasm. None of your spurious decoc- tions from Cette or Marseilles, compounded of hot, fiery drugs, sweet, sour, and bitter coarse grape husks, but the purest of Latour, Lafitte, anid Margaux, that had been pressed within sight of the sugar- loaf turrets of those famous chateaux. .Rosas was assuredly a real gen- tleman' in his taste for wine, anid to him I am indebted for implanting the savor ofa pure grape juice on my juvenile palate, which half a century won't eradicate. Not long since, when I chanced to halt an hour in the quaint old village of Margaux, I quaffed a brave flagon to Don Juan, wishing " muerto a los Unitarios," and health and prosperity to the dictator. He has, however, fallen into misfortune since, by a bad run of luck, and has levanted from the broad pampas of his guac-ho home; but whithersoever he goes, I place illimitable trust in his love for the delicious and incomparable tipple of Me- doc, and humbly pray that his cup may ever be brimming. Dona Manuela, too;---that is, when we were both younger, -was as fine a looking creole doncella as ever tripped-along the banks of the La Plata. She was, at the same time, a devil of a bird on horseback, and would have been just the girl for. Galway had she been born west of Killarney. She took malicious delight in -en- ticing venturesome cavaliers at a stunning pace over the open plains, in leaping, ditches, winding around seem- ingly dry bogs, when, without any warning, you were up to your chin in -mire, and other dangerous feats of horse- * - ^  '  i '  , .c   378      TALES FOR THE MARINES. manship. The number of dislocated shoulders and con- tused faces that girl has on her conscience would defy belief, and when half a dozen attaches to the foreign le- gations or clumsy sailor officers were following close at her heels, she would give her stallion a shake of the rein and a touch with the steel, and away she would vault like a rocket over a gaping ravine, while her at- tendants would come tumbling after. Then Manuela would console herself fori the rest of the evening by sucking paneles and water, and expressing her opinion of the Indians and those villains of Unitarians. She, too, I believe, has followed the fortunes of her sire into exile; but in case any timid young gentleman should not admire her skill in horsemanship in the ring in Hyde Park, or-a quiet canter up Constitution Hill, let him breathe her wild stallion in a broken country, over hedges, ditches, and stone walls, and see who will come off best. After staying a week at Rosas' pampa paradise, I felt a strong inclination to cut the anchor buttons from' my jacket and turn guacho; then, with a lasso, enormous spurs, a small triangular stirrup, a whip like a bludgeon, with a heavy brass hammer at the handle, a soft saddle of skins and leather, a poncho for covering, a striped belcher around my head, and a knife in my girdle, to pass the remainder of my days on those interminable plains, eating beef without salt, and living amid the bullocks and horses. f   -TALES FOR THE MARINES.       379 Our chief amusements were in riding around the estancia or over the pampas, observing the process of training the uncouth, fierce-looking soldiers of the gov-- ernor, or breaking the wild horses for the saddle. This' last was the more exciting sport of the two. These wild animals were taken indiscriminately from droves of tens of thousands, and driven into square enclosures, or corrals, made by planting close fences of stout pick- ets upright in the ground. They were beautiful crea- tures, full of fire, with flowing manes, bushy tails, and eyes which blazed like congreve rockets. They were in the first instance lassoed, thrown down, and branded with the cipher of the owner. The heavy wrought Spanish bit was then forced into the mouth, strong enough, by the twitch of a baby's finger, to wrench the jaw of the brute to splinters. This, with a light, twisted rein of raw hide, hitched to a broad, net- work, hide surcingle, so that the rider could fasten the rowels of his spurs into the meshes around the horse's belly, and then the startled animals would be cast loose, and allowed to regain their feet. On either side of the entrance to the enclosures were upright posts, on which were perched a brace of savage- looking guachos, their leggings fitted from the warm skin of the hind legs of a horse, their heels armed with the enormous rowels to the spurs used in the country, a striped bandanna tied around their brows, the ends hanging down on either side of the face, to fan away   ,380      TALES- FOR THE MARINES. the insects, a broad leathern belt, with a long, narrow knife, and, of course, a pack of cards. No sooner is the barrier of hide rope let fall from the gateway to the corral, than the horses, wild with rage, make a bolt through. There is nothing to check their progress, but at the moment of leaping past the picket, an agile guacho quietly drops on the astonished animal's back, and then the fun begins. You have heard, perhaps, that these men of the pampas actually live on horseback. They are taught to - ride by instinct; and from infancy the horse is their house and home.   They beg on horseback, they carry milk on horseback, and they acquire the most wonder- ful dexterity in the use of the lasso and bolas on horse- back. As horses are to be had almost for the trouble- of catching them, they are treated with extreme cruelty; and though of great endurance, they can hardly stand the ill usage they are forced to undergo for more than three months. But to the horse tamers. They are borne at the first go off like a shot from a cannon.  The enraged and astonished  beast, plunging, rearing, snorting, flies over the plain quite frantic, until, after a couple of hours' struggling, urged at all times by the spur, he begins to give heed to the bit; and at the end of four hours, if his breaker be skilful, he is niade to bound off at a run, and is brought up all standing on a bullock's hide laid upon the ground. ,  .*   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       381 We left the governors hospitalities with extreme regret; but the gayeties of the city soon alleviated our sorrow, and we navy blues went on for a month or two very swimmingly with- the fair creoles, who were as lovely specimens of Spanish colonial beauty as a sharp- sighted gentleman could any where detect. One memorable eveninig I was dancing at a brilliant little tertulia in the house of a Hidalgo matron-DI)ona Elena Sangre-Azul. I had a nice young damsel for a partner in the montornero. It was my turn to perform a small demi-pirouette to the clicking of the castanets, and then, according to rule, rush up to my companion, and spin round in the waltz. Now, I was considered somewhat of an adept at this tour-de-force, and the grace I displayed invariably elicited a gentle clap of applause, and a rustle of fans from the sedate old ladies ranged around the walls of the saloon. Well, at the moment of performing this astonishing feat, happening to cast my eyes towards the folding doors, whom should I see but Antonietta! Yes, there entered the youig beauty, dressed in a little blue striped silk, with flounces of deep black point lace, showing her slim, well-shaped, satin-cased feet, her soft, roundly-turned fingers just peeping from black net mits, her lovely arms bare to the shoulder, with a full, swelling neck tapering up to the pure, round throat, which upheld the graceful head, as if on the stem of a lily. : Ay! de mi! and those liquid, sloe   3832     TALES FOR TH'E MARINES. eyes, the half-closed mouth, the teeth like a mouse's, the merest tinge of olive in her cheeks, as the rich blood "went and came, with tidings from the heart;" and then the great cluster of hair, banded and twisted in thick folds around the brow, and knotted and confined behind by one of the monstrous shell combs then .worn. Heavens  how beautiful she looked!  I even felt an -acute pang that she was so charming, having, perhaps, a faint perception that there might be others of the same opinion, and I might not possibly have her all to my- self. She had grown to be quite a woman in the two years which had nearly passed since we parted, and there was an air, too, of quiet, studied dignity, which I, did not altogether like. She raised her arm, on crossing the threshold, after a stately little courtesy to Dona 'Elena, to remove the gos-: samer veil which fell partly down over her shoulders, and then cast a low, drooping, furtive glance around the saloon. Leaving my bewildered partner to make the most of the montonero, I sprang forward to Antonietta. She was attended by a stumpy young native, not dis- similar in animal structure to her fat, sweet potato ad- mirer at Pinchao.  This fellow, however, had more pretensions to taste in raiment, for he was very gau- dily attired in a pair of dazzling pumps, red silk stock- ings, a pair of plaid trousers, cut rather short, and bagging considerably behind. Above, he wore a white waistcoat, about four inches long, with turquoise but-     TALES FOR THE MARINES.      383 tons, diamond studs on his embroidered bosom, and a maroon colored coat, very peaked about the tails, and remarkably disproportioned about the collar. He was one of those forced, hothouse, precocious Spanish plants you meet in the tropics, scarcely out of the nursery, but with a shock of coarse black hair, heavy eyebrows, and the faintest possible approach to a moustache. I after- wards heard that he was heir to more cattle, horses, and pesos than you could count in a year. However, I didn't notice him particularly at first; but pushing rather rudely by him, and nearly upsetting one of those old 'creole duennas who always attend the girls, principally, I believe, to sniff snuff and suck paneles, and regardless of the company, I was on the point of throwing my arms around my true love, claim- ing her as my own, in presence of the multitude, and declaring that not even death should tear us asunder. Antonietta, however, was not apparently in the least disturbed, but almost imperceptibly repressing my ardent advances, she put out her hand in the sweetest state -of surprise you ever saw, and said, in her pure, lisping accent,- "Ah, Jesus! -Don Enrique!  ]fie alegro muchissimo to see you. How long it seems! And Pancha, and the Dona and Padron - how did you leave them all? That comical Captain Flirt, of the Hazy, too," she said, call- b ing Jack by the name of his brig. C Really, how un-       ,             .   O4.:     TALES FOR THE MARINES. kind of you not to come and see us. Papa will be alegre, I am sure, and so will mamma and the nintas." "Querida 'Tonietta!"I exclaimed; "I- haven't breath to answer all your questions here; but come and sit beside me somewhere, away from these hateful peo- ple, and let)me talk to you all the evening." "Ah! que triste, amigo! I am engaged to dance a minuet and the contra-danga with my cousin here," she whispered, with so tearful a glance that I thought her heart would break in three pieces; " let me introduce you, Don Castanos Gordito." I bowed, and the individual immediately lugged out a richly-chased gold case, and offered me a cigarrito. Meanwhile, before I could turn round, half a score- of dandies and elegant young fashionables had com-' pletely outflanked me, surrounded the pretty creole, and showered upon her more compliments, sweet nothings, and pretty speeches than I could have thought of in a week. In fact, during the whole tertulia I never got another chance of exchanging a word with her; and when the party broke up, the little brute Don Gordito was so assiduous that I could not even spread the man- tilla over her shoulders, which I looked upon as my- peculiar office and prerogative. However, the good little nigger Jilla, who stood by with an extra shawl, was overjoyed to see me, and promised to tell her mistress that I should come in the   TALES. FOR THE MARINES.     385 morning to deliver those precious presents in person-I mean the fan and the earrings. "Buenas-noches, Antonietta," I whispered, as she passed out of the court yard linked to her cousin's arm. "4 Adios, Enrique! come and see us before you sail. Call Merced, number 48." I don't know what excuses I made to myself for this decidedly cold treatment on the part of the girl; but lovers, jealous though they be, are forever disposed to forgive, and I attributed her manner to the constraint imposed upon her- by the presence of strangers, and never dreamed it was caused by a want of affection for me. The next day I had no difficulty in finding the man- sion of her family, as it was in the best street, and one of the finest houses in the city.- Entering the patio, I announced my purpose, and was shown up a stairway to the azotea, (the flat roof of the building,) paved with China tiles, and enclosed by a solid marble balustrade on all sides. An awning was spread, and from lintes f beneath were growing large bunches of air plants, all in brilliant flower. At the upper end of the azotea, near by a loopholed angle of the balustrade, which commanded a view up and ;down two streets, sat Antonietta. Jilla was sprawl- ing about a carpet at her feet, pasting and fringing paper on fiames for kites, while her mistress was busy peeping' through the apertures of the wall.  She looked even 32 ....   U000    'TL'ALESj O rui , F. 1'EI M ARLINES. more lovable than the night previous in her half ball dress. Now, she had on a loose white muslin wrapper, with a dark shawl carelessly thrown over lher head and folded-over her bosom, while a little, short, brown silk, quilted petticoat fell below for a skirt, but did not hide her prettily turned ankles and adorable little feet. She was more cordial, too, in her manner, and after welcoming and making room for me on the cushion beside her, she received my little presents of the beautiful fan and the sparkling eardrops, with beaming rapture. "I declare, Enrique," she said in her soft English accent, "I never saw any thing so handsome as these rings, with this mite of blue enamel in the centre; they will match to a charm the brooch Castanos gave me." I suppose I looked troubled, for she went on- C And this exquisitely painted fan--caramba! Manuelita Rosas and Carolina Garcia have theirs from Paris, but they don't compare with this. Really, Enrique, querido, you deserve a kiss! There, one will do. Don't, or you will disorder my hair, which has been arranged for puffs and a sombrero, for a ride this afternoon with my cousin."  This concluding piece of intelligence almost took away the pleasure of the innocent endearments she had just granted; but presently I recovered my spirits again, and sat and chatted over all my adventures since we had parted. Notwithstanding, however, all my address, I could not induce her to open her lips upon the topic   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      387 nearest my heart; for whenever I ventured to allude to the " affections," she would suddenly divert the subject by a word to Jilla about the kites, or a sly glance out of the loopholes. At the same time I cherished the fond hope of being joined in holy wedlock, at the cathedral, by the arch- bishop as soon as ever he was at leisure, and then apprise my mother and grandfather of the ceremony after it was over. I pictured, also, the delight they would evince to see my lovely bride dance all night, go to mass at daylight, and then pass the day in sleep and tinkling the guitar, instead of the humdrum life of a plantation, in arranging the dairy, visiting the sick, making bread, or'mending shirts. I was aroused from this revery by Antonietta turning with some trepidation from her lookout station,- and say- ing, "There, Enrique, I see the children coming from school; so -you must go; or perhaps you would like' to stay and take a podrida with them." "Thank you, senorita; I am not hungry, and I don't dine at the Fonda until six o'clock." You see I felt rather hurt at this speech, and though I was tolerably small for my age, I was, nevertheless, an ' officer - wore a dirk, steered boats, ran of errands about the  ship, dined with captains occasionally, and was ready on the slightest provocation to fight a duel; and so to be asked to eat luncheon in a nursery of brats at noon- day was really too bad.   388     TALES FOR THE MARINES. However, I smothered my indignation, and took leave; but my temper was by no means improved by meeting Don Castanos Gordito at the gateway, limping along in tight boots, but looking as conceited as a cockatoo. It crossed my mind, afterwards, that he was " the children" Antonietta had discovered coming from school. The following evening I made another visit; but I barely had time to pay my respects to the old people inl the saloon, when in tripped Antonietta elegantly dressed for a grand ball at the palace, and attended, as before, by the stumpy cousin. My diamonds were twinkling in the lobes of her patrician ears, and my fan was flutter- ing in her ivory fingers; but still I felt discontented and unhappy. She was of course very much distressed to be obliged to leave me; but then her family were just making friends with the governor, and she must go; but papa and mamma would make my time pass agreea- bly, and she whispered, as I buttoned her glove, "I shall think of you a great deal, Enrique." To-do the old people justice, they were extremely kind; and then the children took a fancy to me - so we had a romp, a series of minuets, and the gavotte; but after all, I left the house rather low in spirits. On passing the gateway, I found Jilla alone, waiting, perhaps, for some gentle swain of her own color. Feel- ing a sort of affection for the black bit of humanity, I gave her a dollar, and desired her to let me know in the morning when her mistress would be visible.   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      389 "Hola, senor! she goes to-morrow early to the quinta of Don Castanos's mother at La Flor." "But who the devil is this Senor Gordito, Jilla?" The little imp looked inquiringly in my face for an instant; and then, with a touch of real sympathy, in a hesitating voice she murmured, "El senor que la senorita va casar." "What, to be married to that wretch! No -nentira! it's a lie." "Si, si! senor! all true," said Jilla earnestly, and crying as much for compassion for me, as for the tightf grip I had of her arm. "And she leaves the city to- morrow, eh?" "Yes, Don Enrique, at daylight.? I rushed home in a state of semi-distraction between love and revenge. The first rational thing I did was to implore Miss Biddy to get up and listen to my wrongs. I had also a bottle of brown stout and some biscuits, for I required stimulus to keep me from committing suicide, and ifn those days I had never tasted strong drink. I am persuaded that Biddy listened to my griefs with as much equanimity and attention as any philosopher of ancient or modern times ever did to the distresses of another; but as she was the confidante in general of all the young reefers who lived at the Fonda, it was not to be wondered at. "Caramrba!" she exclaimed, after patiently hearing my story; " but why didn't you tell me the name of her father in the beginning? and I could have told you the 83 * W-   390     TALES FOR THE MARINES. daughter has been affianced these four months. It's an old story. There, don't take on so; you'll find lots of lovely girls left in Buenos Ayres." I cried like a patent hydraulic chain pump, and my gentle little companion soothed and consoled me all she could; but being sleepy, she said she must bid me good night. I remember my last words to Biddy were, as she was about to light her candle, "O, dear, Biddy, I'm so sorry that I didn't give you the fan and the eardrops instead  " Here the matron, who had remained a tolerably inattentive listener to the Lieutenant's narrative, ob- served,-  Well, I don't clearly understand what right you 'had to makle away with all that property; and if that little creole minx had been a girl of spirit she'd have refused the trinkets." The Lieutenant bowed, dropped his off eyelid in a winkish manner, took a dry puff or two at his cheroot, gave a deep sigh, and resumed. I drank any quantity of porter, and it was potent; but I could not sleep, and the day had scarcely broke, in a tremendous rain too, when I wended my way through the puddles of the deserted streets to La Merced. I was not a whit too early, however; for before the well- known house stood a queer old vehicle, with rough wheels picked out with red, and a pair of oxen yoked to the pole. The servants were busy loading this :   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      391 structure with trunks, boxes, and cushions, while be- neath the huge axles swung several sacks of grain, and some cooking utensils. I knew-what it all portended at a glance, and fearful of being too late, I ran into-the patio. I can't imagine what object I had in view in invading the house at that unreasonable hour, but I must have entertained the notion of attending Antonietta on her journey. A couple of horses, richly caparisoned for a lady and cavalier, with bridles of heavily-twisted silver, embroidered saddle cloths, and silver stirrups, stood champing their bits beneath the shelter of the arched gateway; and just beyond stood the large duenna and Jilla, ready, apparently, to be packed away with the cushions of the coach. At the same instant out stepped Antonietta dressed for the rqad. An oiled silk sombrero was placed jantily over her/ jetty tresses, a thick green veil was wound round the steeple crown and fastened by a silver cord, a gay poncho hung on her shoulders, while with one hand she held up her riding habit, and with the other grasped an elegantly-mounted whip, the long, white lash wound around her arm. I came upon her so like an apparition that she started back in great affright, and Don Castanos being close at her heels, she capsized him, and he roled like a ten-pin off the steps. Antonietta; with an exclamation of pity, turned'immediately to assist the youth on his legs once more, and this devotion to my rival made the cup of my misery flow over.   392     TALES FOR THE MARINES. "O coqueta! ingrata!"- I ground out between my teeth; "adios por siempre!" - farewell forever! Hereupon I gave cousin Gordito, who was scrambling to his pins, a kick and a push on his base, which tum- bled him over into the algibe of water in the patio, which had been left open to catch the rain. Without deigning a look at my false mistress, and leaving my ri- val to flounder about in the cistern, I rushed out into the street. What was his fate, or what deterred me from sticking my dirk into the bag of his trousers be- hind, I can't for the life of me conceive. As for- that creole flirt, Antonietta, I never saw her for years afterwards, and then she was a maiden still. If her poor lover was not drowned, of course she jilted him, as she did me; and no doubt did a score more with us. At the same tiime her little sisters had grown up, married, and had lots of wee ninias themselves; but I cannot express to you in narrative, ladies, the thrills of pleasure which filled my adamantine bosom on meeting Antonietta again. She had dwindled away very sharp in figure. Her teeth were not so white and pearly as of yore. Her satin tresses had lost their gloss, and were very much gummed,- a practice which I detest,- and her complexion and voice were cracked like old china. It gave he a wonderful 'deal of malicious satis- faction, I assure you, to behold her. Thus, Fred, continued the narrator, ended my first grand passion; and though I moped for a while, devot-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      393 ed myself to Biddy, books, and porter; and as a boy in his teens will do, I forswore the cruel sex bitterly. It had, however, a salutary effect upon me ; for I was enabled to preserve my bruised heart intact until latterly, when I had the good fortune to fall in love with that lady with the blue eyes sitting at the table there. The Lieutenant drew a long breath, and was about to resume his discourse, when so merry a shout of laughter rang out from the- lips of his fair audience, that he con- cluded it would be unsafe to continue his narrative on tthat occasion.   CHAPTER XI.. WITH my crushed hopes and a fair breeze, resumed the Lieutenant; Monsieur Polarbitz again took the Juni- ata under his pilotage, and with the slight accident of running us aground on the tail of the Ortiz bank, for which Captain Percy actually sent for his pistols to perfo- rate the body of his friend Powderbitch, we fortunately reached Maldonado. It was a small place where seals resort in great numbers; but since there were no human beings to be found, we enticed a few bullocks on board, and taking in, also, a quantity of ostrich eggs, turned our heels for the last time on the muddy banks of the Plata. We caught, as usual, a cracking breeze at the mouth of the river, which blew the corvette, with a white bone under her bows, until we entered the tropic, when, after dallying off Cape Frio for a day or two, the south-east trades came to our aid, and sailing on eight hundred miles farther, we anchored in the glorious Bay of San Salvador. I can give you but a faint idea of the beauties of this place. Imagine a low, sandy point, projecting like an elbow into the sea, which presently rises as it falls back (394) \     *               .   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       395 and curves inland; while on the lofty heights there - gleams magnificent tropical vegetation - timber and foli- age bending and drooping all fresh, green, and bright around the white or straw-colored villas of the suburb of the Vittoria. Following the curve is the upper town, Bahia, with its white houses, cathedral, towers, churches, and convents, pleasantly-relieving the eye along the hori- zon; while still beyond, the picture is filled in with the richest verdure, tapering away down and fringing the point of Bom Fin. Again returning along the shore, the eye wanders over the lower town, standing on the bay beneath the steep banks, with the shipping in front, shadowed in the clear, transparent depths of the harbor. Opposite to the south, the gulf is of great expanse, but the land is low, flat, and uninteresting. - As we came whistling into the bay, the whole harbor was alive with canoes, and a large species of whale boat. These boats were sharp at both ends, intended to sail in either direction, simply by dipping their lug sails. The canoes, as graceful structures, in the small way, as ever floated, were long and sharp, with three or four masts each, and the sweetest cut lateen sails, having a rope pennant with an eye at the end, for the negroes to sit in. There, by placing their feet against the gunwale or side, and swinging themselves well over the water, they were ena- bled to keep an upright keel to the canoes, blow as it would. They count the force of the wind by every man   Up      JL., ITALE 'i LC i . IT Li MAllAN M;o. suspended in this way. Thus a two, three, and even a five-man breeze is not uncommon, while the slim craft are leaping like dolphins over the bay. On the occasion of our visit the whaling season was at its height, and the boats were in full chase after a school-that had come into the harbor on a frolic. One of the monsters, however, being too hard pressed, and anxious to avoid his pursuers, whose sharp harpoons and long lances approached every instant nearer to his fins, made a quick turn, and leaping athwart the Juniata's hawse just as the chain was running out, brought the ship up with so heavy a jar as to snap the cable like a pipe stem. We thought we had got foul of an earthquake. It was not many minutes, however, before the leviathan, somewhat bewildered, no doubt, in his turn, by the col- lision, was spurting high in the air the crimson fountain of his life blood, from the deep thrusts of his enemies. The day subsequent to our arrival we-were invited to a-wedding and picnic at a villa in the Vittoria; and, as a matter of course, all who could went. We landed at the lower town, where the blacks were far plentier than I ever saw blackberries. They were great stalwart per- sons, with sharp-pointed teeth, which they kept white and polished by chewing and rubbing them with soft, mucilaginous sticks. They were all nearly naked, but the women wore enormous flat straw hats, the size of umbrellas. The odor and jabbering were positively overpowering.   TALES FQR THE MARINES.       397 We were soon provided with caderas, or palanquins, and safely carried up the steep hill-all, save the chap- lain, a very heavy customer, who broke entirely through his vehicle at the outset. These caderas are carried obliquely, slung at the top by one pole, which -rests on the brawny shoulders of the -negroes. With a low, gr unting chorus, our bearers trotted on; their shining ebony skins as dry as tinder, while the heat of the morning sun was frightful. In an hour we found ourselves in the shaded roads of the Vittoria, the lofty, close foliage waving its graceful arms overhead, shutting out the gairish light of the sun, while the cool breeze, from the sea beyond, rustled delightfully past us. The gentleman to whose house, or rather palace, we were asked, was considered one of the millionnaires of the empire.  He had a stud of horses equal to a crown prince, vehicles without number, grounds laid out with exceeding taste, spouting with fountains and bub- bling with streams and tanks; while along the verge of the lofty banks, overlooking the bay, was a forest of thriving, noble timber and fruit trees. These were trained in arbors, singularly shaped domes and arches, and laced and twined with the brilliant parasitical plants and vines of the country. The house was of the Italian order, of two stories, with lofty saloons, corridors, and spacious verandaed  piazzas, all gayly frescoed, and made dark and cool by close, green Venetian blinds. Dom Martin Pereira, the proprietor of this tropical 84   QaUO     TALtSj I'OR THE MARINES. paradise, was said to have amassed his fortune by deal- ing extensively in Guineas; in other words, doing a heavy business in slaves, in the Bight of Benin and parts adjacent. He was well satisfied, it was hinted, if one out of every five of his clipper fleet could run their cargoes through the fangs of the British cruisers. The way in which he made his money was none of our business. We came to enjoy his hospitality, and did not permit our philanthropy to interfere with our appetites in the least. For you may have heard, re- marked the Lieutenant, the old proverb, ("He that has no fools, knaves, nor beggars in his family, was got by a flash of lightning."  Indeed, were one to decline to dine with the jolly merchants of Brazil whose hands were stained by picking blackberries on the coast of Af- rica, he would have very few dinners to eat in the em- pire. As for Dom Martin, his only daughter, Dona Ruperta, was to be married to a Scotch gentleman; and for her sake we were bound to be gallant. The contract had been signed some days, but the marriage ceremony was performed in our presence, by the archbishop himself. It was the same prelate spoken of by the padron, and the uncle of my- deaf friend, Porgallos.  He was as rotund a person as ever was soaked in the luscious wines which once ripened the holy fathers at Avignon. He had a vinous expression of nose, however, as if-he was in the habit of smelling boiled lobsters; but if that, taken in connection with   TALE S FOR THE MARINES.     -399 a benignant visage, could have made him eligible for the Papal chair, I would as cheerfully have voted for him as any padre of my acquaintance. The bishop was assisted by two prebendaries of high renown, and a few small boys, swinging censers. The groom was a fine; frank, florid fellow; with a good accent for broad Scotch, but a very bad one for the pure Portuguese. In fact, though he had been ten years in the country, he could hardly make himself in- telligible, even to his youthful bride. Dona guperta was an interesting young woman, very dark, but with large, fine eyes, and a ladylike figure, which made amends for her want of beauty. There was a grand collation in the dining room. In the centre of the table a thin thread of a fountain threw its cooling spray over masses- of yellow pines, purple figs, pomegranates, melons, -and multitudes of lesser fruits, which nestled -in antique silver stands; while, like miniature lighthouses, arose from amid the green or sunny clusters the swan-like necks of claret flasks; flanked by burly jugs of johannisberg, squatting down low out of sight; but all with great drops of cold perspiration trickling down their dewy sides. Then the perfume of the pineapples, the limes, guavas, golden sugar bananas ; and such, oranges too! great bigt spheres, the diameter of thirty-two pound shot, with the advantage of carrying the seeds in a little baby orange at the top, and leaving the great globe of pulp free from  O            .   ,XVV     JLUkJX/ I   .V . 'II,.IV/L..LaJ L. JikJO impurities of core ;- to say nothing of the delicate cold pates of game, the salads, the ices, the music. The reserve of the demure Brazilian damsels wore off at the first pop of the champagne corks, and the en- gagements for waltzes and dances kept us very busy, I assure you. After the health of the newly-married couple had been drunk, and a capital sentiment uttered by his rev- erence the archbishop, we all crowded to the main entrance of the villa, to see the pair start for the resi- dence of the bridegroom. At the foot of the marble steps stood a brand new open landau, lined with white and pink silk, and harnessed to a pair of jet black horses, whose eyes looked to me as wicked as Satan. It was a pretty turn out, and there stood the horses, fretting and tossing the satin favors in their headstalls, while a powerful negro, in snow-white muslin shirt and trousers, held them firmly by the bits. "A pleasant time to ye, lads," said honest Mac, with a wave of his hand to us blue jackets, as he mounted the front seat, and grasped the reins. His little wife leaned out of the carriage 'door, and putting her arms around her father's neck and her lips to his face, sobbed out, "O mi padre!" The next instant, the black leaped away from the horses' heads, sprang up beside his master, and the ca- lash tore away through the shady thickets, out of sight. The old prince of slave traders gave a yearning look   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      401 after his child, not thinking, perhaps, that the dew of her last, kiss was-still moistening his cheek. We all returned to the dining hall, finished the repast, and then, with our partners, books, or games, sauntered for hours through the intricate groves, where music was pouring its soft melody through the foliage, and where many of us flung ourselves at full length on the marble benches or rustic lounges, and puffed cigars of the real veguero growth, every one of which was worth, in perfume alone, the amber mouthpiece of a sultan's pipe. I was comfortably convalescing, I may say, at that time, from the dreadful treatment I had received from" Antonietta, and was doing my best to appear amiable to an elderly Brazilian maiden, with a tolerably thick mustache, and the most woe-begone expression I ever saw. She was under rather short canvas for a virgin of her time of life, and looked as if she would esteem it a friendly act to be poisoned without delay. She rather harmonized, however, with my own frame of; mind, and I had arrived at that stage of disgust with flirts and young flibbertigibbets, as, from mere propin- quity, to make me fall enamoured of females old enough to be my grandmother. It often happens with your green hands, after their young love has been blighted, to be pulled into the traces again, like an old boot, by young ladies of mature age. I had picked up sufficient Portuguese to chatter 34*   Awn JuJ& J r, TUB MARkINE;e volubly, and, seated in a dense little labyrinth of the wood, I washpaying devoted attention to the yellow an- tiquity with the down on her upper lip. I had also a bottle of champagne, which I had insisted on a waiter's leaving upon a wicker work settee close at hand. If my recollection serves me, the maiden was relat- ing to me the manner the gold was found in the streams running through her father's domain, though Heaven knows she was too -far advanced in life herself to have a living sire. I was also. admiring the sparkling brilliants on her dingy little bolsters of fingers, with an undefined hope that she would make good my loss with the Span- ish brunette; but it was a vain hope.  During a pause in the music, which seemed to be playing inconveniently near, our tete-a-tete was inter- rupted by the sound of voices, apparently within a yard of us, on the other side of the closely-matted under- growth of vines and shrubs which divided the alleys and lanes of the pleasure grounds. My companion was somewhat startled, and fearing, perhaps, a little scandal might arise from being seen with a navy officer of my extraordinary attractions, she hastily snatched away her hand, and left me with no other support than the cham- pagne. I was on the point of following the faded charmer, when my steps were arrested by hearing a deep bass voice, hoarse with passion, say, in Portu- guese,- "Tell the villain that I hold no terms with pirates;   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      403 he has already lost two fine vessels, and has played false all around." "But, Dom Martin," began a female voice, in an earnest and imploring tone, "Dom, Martin, I will an- swer for him this time; we have spent all, and he will leave Brazil forever." "( Na! nao! I have supported the scoundrel already for two years, and not another milreis will I give for his gaming and villanies," replied the- deep lungs of a voice I now recognized to be that of our host; " not a single vintem," he went on; ,"and hear me; tell him the same American corvette that captured the Clara is now in the harbor, and to beware lest I drop a hint to her captain. There, no more. Here, however, is some- thing for you. Adios." I heard the heavy, dull sound of gold, as it clinked into the woman's hand. "Another moment, Dom Martin;- I came for a good purpose, God knows. Dona Ruperta, without knowing what a wretch 'I was, has ever been kind to me; and for her sake be prepared for a serious danger which threatens you."             , -  The retreating footsteps of Dom Martin were arrested, and after a pause, he said,- "s What danger? - You don't mean that the villain is inciting the Congo and Loango blacks to insurrection?" "Be prepared for the worst," said the woman, in a hurried- whisper, "and I'll warn you, if possible, in time."   TALES FOR THE MARINES, The voice ceased, and I was debating in my own mind whether to leave the shady little bower before finishing the champagne, when, through the same wall of foliage, near the spot, where Dom Martin and the woman had stood, I beheld the dim outline of a man's figure. He walked stealthily along the pathway, and as he passed my position, he raised his hand with a threatening ges- ture, and, as if communing with himself, hissed through his lips the single word "Traidora-!"- Traitress! I neither saw nor heard any thing further in that direction; and the bugles pealing forth an enlivening march, I sallied out of my retreat, discovered that the moon had taken the place of the sun, and that it was time for the dancing to begin. Joining the crowds who were thronging the alleys, and cleverly dodging my faded dulcinea, who was, I divined, intent upon waylaying me for a close embrace in the waltz, in the course of an hour I entered the villa. The dancing saloon was a lofty, oblong apartment, running the entire breadth of the house, the ceiling tastefully painted in groups and strings of the goddesses of the light, fantastic toe. The walls between the mar- ble pilasters were tinted salmon color, while the floor was of the dark, rich, polished mahogany of the country. I had been backing and filling over this slippery floor for some time, perfectly indifferent to my fate, since I felt morally certain that any accidental capsize would be   attributed to the proper cause, namely, the polished sur- face of the mahogany. It struck me, however, pending these reflections, that I ought to see a great number of lights; but though the large saloon was as brilliant as day, there was not a lamp or candle to be seen. On a closer examination for the chandeliers and wax burners, I discovered that the spaces between the fluted pilasters, around the cornices, and in the medallions of the ceiling, were of ground glass, painted to correspond with the adjoining parts, while the light was poured by reflection into the saloon from concealed panels. The effect was all that could be wished, without the heat, glare, or flare of wax or oil. It convinced me, more- over, that the apparent defect in my vision was attrib- utable to rational causes, and not to the sparkle -of the champagne. At the same time, the discovery so much affected me that I persuaded a nymph of some twelve summers --- Now, don't laugh, ladies, for I knew an admiral's wife in Brazil who was the mother of seven children at eighteen years of age,' all single throws, and never doublets or tripods among the lot. Well, she was a wild little thing, and we went to sen- timentalize on the piazzas.. There was a pretty thick volume of cigar smoke afloat, and a number of card tables about, with a very rich display of counters; so I surmised that the betting was high. In fact, your old gamblers, your staid, respectable diplomats, sagacious   TALES FOR THE MARINES. statesmen, and-the like, never put any money up. It sets a bad example; but still they bet all the deeper for it, and remit to each other little billets-de-banc in the morning, Occasionally, too, some tawny old dowager, with any quantity of sugar and coffee in bags, with fingers loaded, between the layers of fat, with royal brilliants, and brows and jaseys with the same precious stones, would be seated at the green tables, merely looking on for amusement. At intervals they would give as much of a nod as their unwieldy necks would stand, as much as to say, "A thousand milreis on the trick," or, "Fifty ounces on the game," and so on. While cruising around this part of the mansion, I was accosted by an American merchant with, "Young gentleman, will you be good enough to find Captain. Percy for me?" Now, this was the very move of all others I was most anxious to avoid, since I was just in that state of elation to be aware, if my venerable commander caught sight of me, I should certainly get my ears pinched, and perhaps be sent off to the corvette. So I had exerted all my tactics during the day and evening to determine exactly his position, but never permitting him to know mine. The fact was, that old Percy had some unac- countable disinclination to have his young reefers use tobacco or drink wine; and when dining with him at his own table, he would say, "Have a cigar, sir? Ah,   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      407 you don't smoke. Steward, pass them on."  But in the matter of wine he never even passed the compli- ment upon us; so that we had to watch a chance; fill our glasses, and under the mask of a stand of fruit, or a wine cooler, toss them off surreptitiously. In reply to my interrogator, I said, " O, yes, sir; but I can't leave the lady;' but there the captain stands, smoking a cigar with the bishop," pointing through a lane of humanity towards the balustrade of the veranda. "Ah! muito benm; the very pair I was in search of." The moment after, I saw all three move towards the end of the piazza, where there was a sort of pavilion for punch and ices; and being joined by Dom Martin and several more native and foreign gentlemen, they listened with great attention to some remarks which fell from the host. Believing that no danger would follow, at the solicitation of my companion I fed her with ices from the pavilion, and thus overheard the concluding part of the conversation. "Si, senhores," said Dom Martin, " there must be at the lowest computation nearly nine thousand blacks' in the great apaulados. They have been going away to those swamps for many months--chiefly the Loango slaves, brave and fearless fellows, all of them. I have every reason to apprehend danger; and this very even- ing I learned that there is a prospect of the negroes being incited by foreign sailors, some of whom, in times past, I have had, dealings with. Moreover, our troops  TALES FOR THE MARINES. here are not numerous, and should an attack be made, they will have as much as they can do to defend Bahia, while here in the suburbs we shall be left comparatively unprotected." "Well, gentlemen," spoke up old Percy, turning to the foreign consuls, " you have only to address me an official letter on the subject, and I'll give you all the as- sistance that can be spared from the Juniata." I may observe here that Percy not only received the thanks of the English government for the protection he afforded to British subjects during the affairs which sub- sequently occurred, but a splendid service of plate from the foreigners themselves in San Salvador. When the consultation broke up, I beat are treat with my youthful partner, and again sought the ball room. It must have been past midnight. A long contra-danqa had been formed; but just as the headmost couples were beginning to swing forward to the .measured cadence of the orchestra, from some unknown cause the music sud- denly paused, and then ceased altogether, while a breath- less silence reigned throughout the room. We all gazed inquiringly from one to another; but at the same mo- ment the crowd fell back from the great doorway lead- ing to the vestibule; and we beheld the powerful ne- gro, who had attended the newly married couple, lean- ing against the pilaster. The black stood with his right arm pressed to his side, while the hand and part of the forearm was snapped short off, and hung down   at nearly right angles with the remainder of the joint. His dress was one mass of blood and dirt. "What is the matter?" exclaimed a dozen voices, while some of the women screamed with fright, as the slave stood trembling and gasping, with his face the hue of blue ashes, on the threshold. "Dom Martin!" uttered the maimed negro. "Here," said the host, as he pushed his way throgh the terrified crowd of women, and never stoppe iitil he stood face to face with the slave. "Que falla "- Let him speak. I did not catch the words in reply, but Dom Martin gave a frightful shudder, turned half round, with a stare of agony, and while the great drops of sweat burst from his forehead, he fell headlong on the floor. All was soon explained. The horses had got away, Dona Ruperta had been killed, and her husband had a fractured skull. I need not tell you that the gay wedding and ball ter- minated in weeping and sorrow. Poor Mac, though he partially recovered from his accident, and returned to Scotland, never, I believe, fully regained his reason, save to mourn for his unfortunate bride. It cast a heavy gloom, too, over all the foreign society of the city, which it took a long time to remove. Meanwhile the fears of an insurrection among the slaves of the province, at that time immensely outnum- bering the whites, became every day more general. In * 35 35    "O      TALES FOR THE, MARINES.' consequence of the representations which had already been made to Percy, fifty men from the Juniata, besides the marine guard, were detailed for a sort of garrison duty in the dwellings of the foreign residents. Our ground was confined to the Vittoria, as I have hinted, a suburb of villas, overlooking the glorious bay, and faced on the opposite side by a broad road and high stone walls. The main retreat of the blacks was ascertained- to be about fifteen miles from the city, in the direction of the open sea, and it was presumed, in case of attack, they would approach by the Vittoria road, where no troops were posted, and there was no impediment to oppose the negroes until our little band had been landed for the service. The villas were about the third of a mile apart; and as they were charmingly cool residences, with great broad piazzas, plenty of delicious claret and pure Havanas to sip and puff, while the fresh sea breezes rattled the blinds of the lofty dining halls; and since we were- treated, marines and mariners, with a noble hospitality, why, it was not in the heart of man to wish that the fears of a negro insurrection should ever end. My quarters were at the villa of the Sardinian consul, whose wife, a very handsome woman, with the blood of a Balbi in her veins, was my tutoress in the interesting little game of ecdrte. I played for her while she did the honors of her house; and it was owing, possibly, to *'t ^    TALES FOR THE MARINES.      4" the instructions she gave me, that she filled her purse with yellow gold from- the plethoric pockets of her guests. Every evening after the gentlemen had returned from their business pursuits in the town, partaken of dinner, and so forth, it was customary to close and barricade the gates, station lookouts on the walls, and then stroll from- house to house, and amuse ourselves with cards or dan- cing until past midnight. Each villa was a miniature fortress. The corners of the rooms were stacked with .fowling-pieces and blunderbusses. Swords and canes were piled on chairs. The ladies' work boxes were filled with bullets. Pistols and percussion caps lay ready for use beside the cards on the tables. The windows and doors facing the road, were bolted, barred, and double locked, and every thing, in short, ready for a siege of any duration. Our men, at the same time, eight or ten at each villa, were posted about the grounds during the night, but in the day they lounged and slept away the hours, as well as generous cheer would allow them. The commander-in-chief of our troops on the land was, of course, Colonel Steelin, the marine officer of the Juniata. You will not understand that he had actually risen to that high grade in the corps; for, according to the presept rate of promotion, by the nicest calculation,  he would have to be just two hundred and thirteen years seven months and a half in the service to attain that   "2   -  TALES FOR THE MARINES. rank, which is simply impossible. We gave him the title as an affectionate sort of brevet, and believed that his merits made him eligible for a brigadier. I forget whether I have yet described him as he deserves. At all events, a slight repetition of the virtues of a good fellow is not thrown away. Steelin was, and is now, one of the- most excellent, warm-hearted, good creatures in the service. To be a soldier was his pride, and a good messmate his passion. To maintain 'the former reputation, he always made up his own bed, kept his trunk, like a canteen, packed in the middle of the Atlantic, ready for a campaign any where. He buttoned his military frock to the tip of his stock on the coast of Muscat; never gave an eighth of an inch to his sword belt or sash -after the heartiest of dinners ; he loved the fife, but scorned the flute ; a fiddler was his abhorrence, and he always advised those musical gentry, on the score of economy, to grow their own cats for strings. The colonel knew, besides the regulations, the exploits of every distinguished soldier of modern times, and as for his drill, it was perfection. "I say, you, Private Dodds," or "Corporal Boggs," as the case might be, he would exclaim, while his bullies were drawn up on the lee side of the quarter deck, and snatching the musket from the individual's grasp, "hold the piece firm to the breast as the' rock of Gib-ral-tar! Learn to stand fire, sir, like a mutton chop, and keep your eye on the object, sir."   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      413 It was a delightful study, I assure you, to hear him; for he was indeed a great comfort to us. We had all misgivings, however, a good while after this cruise, that the colonel would fall off when he committed matri- mony; but it "never fazed him," he was wont to say. He was up, kit packed, pipe clay mixed, whiskers trimmed to a hair, and off to sea in a frigate on a three years' cruise to the East Indies, the day after his mar- riage. Our head quarters were at the villa of Dom Martin. It was the most central position, and made the best ren- dezvous in case the adjacent buildings should be attacked; but the owner himself we rarely saw, since he was as yet too much pressed down by the loss of his child. One fine night, when the moon was on the wane, but still nearly round, and throwing a full, soft, mellow light over the broad expanse of the bay, I made a visit to the colonel. My object was, to report the patrol out, and that a casualty had happened to one of our gallant band, who had tumbled from a ladder against the wall, broken his musket, together with his shin, and received several abrasions of his flesh. "Very good, sir," said the colonel' "-I only wish that he had broken his neck instead of his arms; and 1 rather think he must have been eating eels, to have made him wriggle' off the ladder, sir. I shall put him in irons at daylight, sir." I found Steelin in the second story, or altos, as they 35 - : ,"';d   TALES FOR THE MARINES. call the upper rooms of a Brazilian house, leaning over a broad iron balcony. He was flanked by a large silver salver containing every variety of drink, a pyramid of limes, a bowl of sugar for a brew of punch, and a bun- dle of cigars. "By Jove, sir," said the colonel, as he observed the glow of pleasure with which I beheld the tempting dis- play set out for his conviviality - by Jove, sir, this is one of the houses, it is. My friend, Dom Martin, lives like a perfect gentleman, and if he had another daugh- ter, she would be mine, sir -mine." "I say, colonel," I began, " what a glorious big bed that is!" pointing to a great state affair, with enough gauze and curtains around the superb decorations to have made a suit of studding sails for a frigate. "I s'pose you sleep like a top, nights." "What!" he exclaimed, with assumed indignation, as he squeezed some lime juice over the sugar, in a tumbler, and rang a bell for a servant, to bring fire for his cigar -"what, sir! do you imagine a true soldier sleeps tranquilly in a bed like that in time of war? No, sir; a cane-bottomed settee there, jacket for pil- low, and sword at my side-that's my bed, sir, and ready at all hours of the night for the grand rounds, sir." I, of necessity, had no more to say, after the wisdom thus imparted to- me; so I drew a chair to the balcony, and while the fruits and plants gave out their delicious   r  , i L  f    TALES FOR THE MARINES   "5   perfume to the gentle influence of the night dew, I listened to the talk of my companion relative to his exploits in the field of Mars. At last he ceased, and we both fell into a revery; the smoke from the cigars curled in blue, spiral wreaths around our heads, and the only sound that broke upon the stillness was at times a large drop of moisture rolling off the foliage, and, perchance, falling with a loud snap upon the broad leaf of a banana or guava bush below. Suddenly we were startled by a quick hail from a sentinel, a few hundred yards on our left, of, "Stop there, or I'll plug you with a ball." "Stop " was cried the second time; and the moment after rang out the loud report of a musket, and we could hear the ball whistle through the leaves and undergrowth, making the dew fall like rain. Before we had time to think, two figures sprang out into one of the open parterres of flowers, from an angle of the shrubbery; a violent struggle ensued between them; we saw a blade gleam with a silver flash in the moonlight; there was a choking scream, some half-audi- ble ejaculations of, ' O Bill, coward! how could - kill me;" and one of the two sank upon the ground. While Steelin and I yelled for the guard to turn out and arrest the intruders, the only response we at first got was a flash from a pistol beneath the balcony, fol- lowed by a ball, which clipped off some of the stucco work on the window frame above our heads, while a  ' .:;  6     TALES POR THE MARINES.         ' voice sung out, "Take that for your pains !" and the individual leaped again within the dense thickets. We immediately descended to the piazza, and as the alarm spread in both directions, up and down the road, the men lined the walls. An order was given for no one to pass, and no one did escape, that we could see; but still, after a close search, we could discover no trace of the person who had created the disturbance. Our attention was now turned to the post where the first alarm had been given; and on questioning the sen- try,- a plain, straightforward Yankee,- he stated that a white woman, nearly out of breath, had come quickly upon him, and desired to be conducted to Dom Martin instantly. But while she was making the request, a man dashed into the alley with a knife in his hand; the woman took to flight; the man pursued, and not stop- ping at the sentry's hail, he had fired. This was all clear, and, with Dom Martin and several gentlemen from the adjacent villas, we moved towards the grounds in the rear, from which the colonel and I had been sa- luted with the pistol bullet. Emerging into the open garden, we beheld a human form, lying, face downwards, upon a bed of brilliant flowers, standing up like white and red torches in the moonlight; while all around, the plants and shrubs were trampled under foot by the desperate struggle we had before witnessed. We all moved hastily forward; and from the torn drapery and mass of dishevelled hair,  TALES FOR THE MARINES.     417 strewed dank and wet with blood upon the back, we saw that it was a woman. She was lying with her face almost buried in the soft, rich earth, while between the shoulders was the hilt of a knife, which had been plunged in up to the guard. "What hellish work is this?" exclaimed Dom Mar- tin, as we raised the body and bore it to the piazza. "Bring water, quick; she may not be dead." We propped the body up on one of the great cane lounges, and in a few moments, with a napkin and jar of water, I had gently washed away the dirt from the face, and bathed the neck and bosom. "Stone dead," said our consul. A low groan, how- ever, followed from the body; a gurgling rattle, and she slowly opened her eyes. "Ah, poor soul! she is the wife of a miscreant I formerly employed," said Dom Martin. Wine was brought, and a little being placed in her mouth, it seemed to revive her; for she opened her eyes again wide, and blood flowed in a stream from her lips. At length the hemorrhage ceased, and she appeared to be regaining consciousness. Her eye first glanced upon me, and she murmured, in broken whispers, "Poor little - fellow, - I tfiought they killed - you -at Mag Surfs." I let fall the basin in absolute surprise; then gazing attentively at the dying features, I was at last enabled to recognize the woman to be Loo O'Neil. But what a   ,418     TALES FOR THE MARINES. change I Instead of the fine blooming woman I had once seen, there lay stretched before me the hollow, ghastly  cheeks, hollow eyes, and shrunken figure of one who had plainly led .g life of misery since we had parted. She fainted away once or twice; but recovering again, though becoming weaker every minute, she mentioned the name of Dom Martin. She spoke with difficulty. "The attack of the blacks will be made before day- light," said she; :' they are now approaching the city- by both roads. I came to warn Dona Ruperta." There was another faint turn. "' One body by the Vittoria - this house will be plundered -there: I am going -God forgive me - I am steeped in crime: he murdered ---" The eyes remained wide open; the light had left them -there was a rattling struggle in the throat, and all was over with Loo O'Neil. "I Her papers are white, I really do believe, sir," said the old sergeant of marines, as he brushed away a tear J from his bronzed cheek, and touched his cap to his officer. "There's no time to be lost, gentlemen," exclaimed the colonel, in a low tone; c but wei must have a re'n- forcement." . "s Ay, that we must," said Dom Martin.'- "I know the revengeful villain well who has urged on these poor, ignorant blacks, and he will do all he can to massacre the whites."  ',. cAt the same time," said the consul, we must get   TALES FOR THE MARINES.-      4-19 a message as soon as possible to the corvette; -and who will go?"              '  "I will, if you please, sir," I volunteered; "only show me the way;" for I felt an itchingl to be with old Jack Percy, as I felt sure that if any body would circumvent Mr. Bill Lowther it would be he. ,c Bravo, boy! I'll give you a guide; and while you are gone I'll send aR note to the commandant of the troops to be on the alert in the city."' The guide furnished me was a little negro boy about ten years old; but, saving that he was so black that I could not see him at times, he performed his task well, and I managed to scramble down a steep, rocky path on the face of the hill towards the sea, and soon -stood upon the beach. The next move was to find a boat, though I fancy the good people above thought I intended to swim off to the ship, which lay about a mile from the shore. Fortunately, we found an old log of a fishing canoe. With sharp stones we cut the painter, and then, with two pieces of drift wood for paddles, we put off. The current was running strofg in shore, and we were whirled about a- good deal; but presently we crossed the bows of a large Brazilian frigate, called the Bahiana, lying in harbor. Before I had breath to reply to the hail of the sentry on post ait the iheel of the bowsprit, he let slip a bullet at me. It was not badly aimed for a Brazilian, taking into consideration that we were not more than thirty'feet from the muzzle of; his piece'; and   420      TALES FOR THE MARINES. the ball smashed slap through the bottom of the canoe. My little darkey jumped overboard with a shriek, while I dropped my paddle into the water, and yelled out that I was the very best amigo the empire ever had.  My cries, joined to the noise of the musket, attracted attention on board the Juniata, scarcely a cable's length distant, and a boat was manned and sent to pick us up. My report wasaquickly made to old Percy, who was, as usual, picking his teeth in his sleep. "Orderly," he said, as the man answered the cabin bell, " tell the officer of the watch to beat to quarters, and prepare the second division for landing at the Vit- toria. Let a boat also be sent to this frigate alongside, to thank the captain for firing at one of my officers, and say that'there is every reason to look for an attack -by the blacks upon the city before daylight." Meanwhile, the old gentleman slipped on his trousers and upper rig; then, taking a pair of duelling pistols carefully out of the case, .he stepped on deck. Fifteen minutes had not elapsed before his orders had been fully executed. Both ships had beat to quarters, the Brazilian with her ports triced up, battle lanterns kindled, and all her boats in readiness to act. At the same time, the second division of the corvette's crew, about seventy men and officers, had left the ship. Guided by the same little blackey who had led me down the hill, we could every now and then trace their course up the steep face of the ascent by the glitter of a' bay-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      421 onet reflected from the last glimmers of the-setting moon. It was near two o'clock. We had waited a long time in considerable anxiety, but all remained tranquil -not a sound save occasionally the splash of a fish jumping out of water, and the low, distant roar of the ocean rolling upon the outer beach. The town seemed wrapped in repose. The white ranges of houses, the towers' of churches and convents, and the deep foliage of the sub-, urbs were all shrouded in the dim, indistinct veil of starlight. I stood beside the captain and first lieuten- ant on the poop, waiting impatiently for the assault to begin; while the crew remaining on board were lying on the deck at their quarters at the great guns, in readi- ness to jump into the boats at the gangways, to act at any point their services might be required. "Four bells," said the orderly at the cabin doors. The clang of the brass tongue of the bell had hardly ceased its liquid notes, when, in the direction of the Vit- torla, we heard a few dropping shots, and then a smart volley. Away to the left over the city the horizon became brilliant with flame, and then began the work in earnest. Volley upon volley of musketry rolled in rapid succession, broken in upon every few seconds by the deeper. boom of field pieces; while we could hear, amid the strife, the clattering of cavalry mingled with the clash of steel, and above all, the wild, terrific howls and shrieks of the infuriated blacks. The fire, too, was 36   JLBASU JT-VO TUHEi MARINUES. kept up sharp and warm at the Vittoria, and by the cheers and shouts of our people we felt assured they would be able to beat off any force of unarmed negroes that might be brought to oppose them, even though led by sailors. ' Is my gig ready, and the men armed?" said Percy. -.All ready at the starboard gangway, sir," replied Mr. Hope. "Then be ready to send all the men you can spare to the Vittoria in case of need. I shall go there myself, and see how things get on. Come, Mr. Gringo, let us shove off." Old Dolphin gave a low whistle, the oars dipped like knife blades into the water, and we spun away to the lower landing. There, after waiting some time, a mes- senger came, as had been agreed upon, from Steelin, who reported that the blacks had been repulsed without difficulty from the villas, and had apparently moved off to join the main body in the attack upon Bahia. They had evidently met with a reception they were by no means prepared for; but still the battle raged in the city. with great- spirit. "Pull slowly up along the town," said old Percy, as we shoved off from the landing. "The chances 'are, the negroes will be beaten; but whether they will fall back to their former ground at the swamps or be driven into the bay is doubtful." The boats from the frigate Bahiana had preceded us,   and now, as the gray of morning was stealing above the smoke hanging upon the hill, we all rowed past the city. The firing, however, still continued hot and ir- regular, and still the wild clamor of the assailants rose in the deadly conflict, accompanied by the sound of tom-toms and the clash of steel. The sounds came nearer too, and struck with greater distinctness upon our ears; and soon the combat rolled from the outskirts into the city, along by the plaza, when again the field guns came into play, and the musketry poured in volley upon volley. ( They have made a bold stand somewhere," said old Jack, "'and if they overcome the troops, there won't be a white left alive in the town to tell the tale." At last there was a thundering discharge, then a pause of comparative stillness, followed by a shout of triumph from the troops. Then the nine pounders ceased, and the firing of the musketry seemed to be divided, one part echoing away back of the city, while the other blazed up on the very crest of the hill towards the harbor, and at the same time we could hear a few spent bullets skipping about the tiled roofs of the ware- houses of the lower town. Ah, ha!" muttered Percy, "those poor, deluded slaves are retreating, and if they come this way, they must bolt by the watering ravine; so give way, lads." In a few minutes we had swept for a mile beyond the port and shipping, and reached a little stone jetty pro-    424      TALES FOR THE MARINES. jecting some distance into the bay, where was a narrow channel chiselled out of the rocks, for a thin stream of fresh water to fill the casks in the boats beneath. A large number of canoes were hauled up on the beach near by, while the nets, floats, gourds, corks, and sails of the fishermen were spread over them. Just below the watering wharf was a broad, causewayed ascent lead- ing, with one or two angles, to the plaza of the city; and then above was another of more rugged ascent, and forming a sort of delta in the rainy season, where nu- merous paths and watercourses joined at the base, and fell into the bay. It was now broad daylight; the firing from the hill had ceased, with the exception of a few scattering shots; but the cries of the soldiers, and the slipping and clat- tering of the cavalry, as the horses were urged over the . smooth, steep pavements, were mingled, as before, with the savage, wailing shrieks of the defeated blacks. By this time the boats of' the Bahiana had taken posi- tion in a line with the jetty, and all were armed with swivels, while the launch had, in addition, a howitzer- built twenty-four pounder carronade in her bows, on a traversing slide. We lay on our oars outside of all, and waited the result with the deepest suspense. Suddenly a simultaneous and unearthly yell arose from the high bank above us, and quick as thought we beheld a great mass of naked blacks leaping like so many demons down the narrow paths of the rugged 4   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       425 ravine. They were in full flight; while, hurrying down the causeway, the troops came straggling along, with a horseman or two at intervals in their midst, their, sabres waving, and all shouting and cursing awfully. A panic had evidently come upon the slaves; and, quite fren- zied, they no sooner gained the beach, than, plunging "into the pure, blue, tranquil water of the bay, they struck out for God only knows where. Then the boats from the frigate opened; the heavy crash-of the cannon followed; the water was all foam for an instant; but when the gentle land wind rolled the smoke back like a blanket, the grape and canister shot- had done its work, and the before transparent water was discolored with blood, and covered with muti- lated carcasses. Still the blacks came crowding on down the hill, and in scores splashed into the bay, to meet the fate of those before; while, at the same time, the soldiers and horsemen, dashing right and left among them on the beach, gave them a foretaste of what- they had to expect from the boats. Notwithstanding the great slaughter which took place at the watering ravine, there were collected from differ- ent parts of the city, and piled in heaps in the plaza, upwards of seven hundred dead bodies, while, for a long time after, the putrid carcasses were floating about the bay, the sharks having apparently been surfeited- by  their inordinate feast. This insurrection of 1835 was one of the bloodiest ever known in Brazil. 36 *   TALES FOR THE MARINES. During the thickest of the melee at the ravines, when the gutter of the jetty was fairly running with blood, we observed four large men spring down the very face of the rocky, steep, and amid a mass of dust, stones, and sticks which followed their footsteps, dash boldly into the midst of a cluster of soldiers. As they struck right and left with great knives curved like sickles, the Bra- zilians fell back before the sharp steel; and so unex- pected was the attack, that two of the party had time to rush to the beach, and by one vigorous shove launch a light canoe which had been hauled upon the shore. The hindmost pair did not, however, join their compan-- ions without a struggle; for no sooner had the aston- ished and wounded guard given way, than three troop- ers galloped up, with sabres raised, to cut the intruders to pieces before they could reach the canoe. We now. had a good view of all four of the fugitives. The two first were of huge frames, wholly naked, their bodies shining like junk bottles in the sun, and their woolly heads partly covered with a cap of sea shells. There was no doubt of their race. Their companions, how- ever, were powerful men, but not so black as the oth- ers; besides, they wore short trousers, and red cotton kerchiefs around their brows, and had whiskers. "De Lord knows de niggers by de wool; dem two hind chaps am stained white men," muttered Kit Dol- phin. Meanwhile the pair turned at the moment the horse-   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      427 men were in the act of striking, and diving under the bellies of the horses, the blows descended harmless, while the animals were. completely overthrown by the shock, and the riders hurled heavily from the saddle. The third trooper came off still worse; for one of the fugitives seized his steed by the curb, reined him back on his haunches, and then dealt the rider a dreadful overhand blow with the immense knife, that nearly sev- ered his leg from the trunk. Another second had not passed when all four had jumped into the canoe, seized the paddles, and then, with a fiendish yell of triumph, shot like a meteor out into the bay. It so happened that this rapid skirmish and flight oc- curred somewhat in the rear of the main body of troops who now lined the beach, and directly astern of the flotilla of man-of-war boats, who, anchored in line, with their swivels and guns in full play, did not see what was passing, and even if they did, could not easily be diverted for so small a quarry. The canoe, however, passed close to us, urged like a javelin over the calm water. We had but a glance at them, but that one glance at the half-averted faces of the fellows in the bow and stern was enough for us. The gaunt, bony whaler, of whom I spoke in the beginning of this yarn, Mickey Maginnis, and Kit Dol- phin tuned their pipes; nor did the presence of the stern old captain restrain their deep execrations. Mickey," said the former, " d'ye- call to mind the   TALES FOR THE MARINES. throttled baby aboard the English brig? My -name's not Steeving Frankling, and may I never see Cape Cod agin, if I don't stick wun of them villings afore the sun gits over the fore yard." r "Howly Moses!" ejaculated the sturdy little Irish- man, as he exposed his pointed teeth, and talked through the hole made for his pipe; '" blast yer porthraits! av a vartuous action 'ull hang yer, it's me an 'll reeve the rope." "Bress us!" broke in the pious Kit, as he rapidly tucked up his sleeves in a tight roll to the armpits, exposing a volume of muscles and sinews, in great bunches, like uneven laid knots of hide rope, while the white splatch on his cheek and eye seemed to turn crim- son with excitement, as he looked anxiously for orders to the captain, and exclaimed, "Dem dam cussed dogs of pirates, sar."' Mad Jack himself was a picture. While the boat's crew sat quivering with excitement, their brawny flip- pers clutching the looms of the oars, ready to apply their force in the chase, the captain's large gray eyes grew as luminous as a furnace; his lips were parted over his square iron jaw, and his gaze was intently fixed upon the canoe, until the smoke of the Bahiana's boats hid her from sight. Then he spoke, in his calm; stern way. "Let me have these tiller ropes, boy; I'll steers Now, men, we have a long race before us, on empty *Jd   TALES FOR THE MARINES.      429 stomachs, and perhaps a swift fellow to take; so save your strength, and away with her." I must tell you, Fred, that the Juniata's gig, though clinker built and rather heavy, pulled eight oars, and had never been caught. At the same time we were ignorant what she would do alongside one of the slim, light, frail shells we had now to compete with, since she had never been tried. She parted the water very hand- somely, however, and whizzed away in obedience to the captain's order with great rapidity, but still by no means up to her speed. There was little or no wind in the vicinity from where we started, for the concussion of the guns had almost killed it. The smoke, too, lay in light flakes of blue clouds close along the harbor, so as to obscure the chase. In a few moments, however, we got beyond its influence, and came out into a clear atmosphere, and just in time to see the canoe skim like a flying-fish round a low, sandy point ahead of us. Whether the persons in her were aware that they were pursued we hardly knew, but we thought they were not.   "Now, Dolphin," said the captain, "strong and long." And to me, "Youngster, pitch these heavy gratings, -the cushions, backboard, and every ounce of extra weight, overboard." I did as I was bid, while the boat's, crew gave a tug at their belts, the long oars cheeped in the rowlocks, and the compressed water between the blades flashed    4v0     TAtES FOR it'TH W MARIS.         and foamed in the rising sun, as-the gig danced on her course.                        Keeping near to the edge of the point, -and low as it  was, .we were screened from the other side by a thick grove of cocoa'nuts and limes, -we presently shot swiftly round, and there, within a cable's length, was the canoe, pulling but two paddles, while the negroes were step- ping the masts and preparing to make sail. We were nearly upon her before being discovered; but instantly resuming the paddles, and taking a sharp turn, by almost superhuman efforts, the vcork-like vessel glided away from our grasp. "Neber do to gib it up so," exclaimed Kit, cheer- fully; " nab-bemr de bery nex time but one." ' Old Percy merely drew his pistols towards him on the stern sheets, and whispered to me, "Bring me down one of those stained white villains." I threw .up the long tube, and touched the trigger; but, either my agitation or the jerking of the boat sent the bullet wide of the mark, and a yell of derision came from the canoe. I was about to cry with vexation when the captain nodded to the remaining weapon, and said, "Quick." This trial the shot was not so bad, though the distance was greater, for the ball struck the after pa4dle with a plack, first going smash through the paw of Tom Mur- - den, Esquipe, who had hold of it. The paddle took a kind of blue, but the fellow still continued his work,   TALES FOR THE MARINES,      431  while the blood ran a stream down the dark blade.    ? The captain greeted me with a smile, but never. removed I I -; his gaze from the chase. -              -  -- On we flew, within earshot of her too,-so that we  :-- could hear the deep guttural grunts of the negroes at every stroke of the paddles. Both boats, impelled at  - wonderful speed, were heading for a broad belt of man- groves, which lined the shore in the distance, growing  a beneath the tall, rocky banks, where we cotuld see a  ) : cascade of water tossing its spray over the dense foliage  below. It was a trying race; yet we could not gain an   , inch. Not a word was uttered; old Jack bent to the    J stroke of the oars; the powerful crew, with short Mickey Magirnis in the bow, would only at intervals   :: give a rapid'glance over their shoulders ahead, and then ' -/:  with renewed efforts apply their strength to the business  before them. For four or five miles we continued on at the same rate. It could not last, however, forever; and we be- ' gan to perceive evident signs of weakness on the part of Mr. Tom Murden, who had the eyelet- hole worked in his hand, for his head reeled every moment as if he was drunk. , "One word, lads," said the captain, as the boats now rapidly neared the mangroves -" one word: don't trouble the blacks , those pirates--you understand.": Kit Dolphin threw up his flipper in token of obedi-  - ence. At the moment the canoe passed from our sight   TALES FOR THE MARINES. Then glancing up to Kit, he added, sc Why don't- you jump, you spotted scoundrel?" Dolphin was, in fact, in the act of attempting the leap at the risk of his life, when the fragile limbs, una- ble to bear his weight, gave way, and he was precipi- tated over and over through the yielding branches and leaves to the earth. All this took place in a much shorter time than it takes to tell it. The swing, however, of Lowther's pendulum movements seemed to be communicated to the surrounding foliage, and as he remained dangling about fifteen feet from the ground, in mid air, watching to make a safe descent, three or four of the light trees were without visible means bent together, and then flew back with a snap, making the quiet forest to rustle and trem- ble with the force. A second after we beheld the long, fiat head, and scaly, sinuous body of a huge boa, of the size of a line-of-battle ship's hemp cable, protrude them- selves many feet from the trunk of a gnarled mahogany tree. With a malignant glare from his fiery eye, and shooting out his forked tongue as quick as lightning, he approached his victim. The horror-stricken wretch had only time to give one agonizing cry before the coils of the monster were around him. Tearing him like a worm from the sapling,-the serpent clutched him against the hard timber; and then, not in a screw-like or spiral twist, but with the great, muscular, shiny body, in writhing layers and knots, he   Coming up to the place, we beheld the pirate clam- bering up a giant mahogany tree to the topmost branch- es, while Dolphin, with his cutlass betwixt his teeth, was going up hand over fist after him. There was not a pistol among us, or Kit might possibly have been spared the additional fatiguie, after the race, of climbing up a tree.  Lowther had soon worked his way to the thorny summit over the torrent, and seemed to be intently examining the lesser growth below him. "Should he attempt to leap the stream  from that height, he'll be dashed to atoms; but it will only save me the boat's painter, which I intend to hang him with. iAh, there he goes!" While the captain was speaking, the villain made a spring from the wide-spread branches of his perch, and making a long flight through the air, he alighted upon a tall, lance-like sapling, with a little tuft of branches :at the top. This gave way to the force of his leap, and broke short off; but with great presence of mind he seized another within reach, which bent at first like a fishing rod, but did not give way. There he- swung, with a- smile of devilish satisfaction creeping over his scarred and blackened face, suspended over the turbu- lent torrent, waiting till the vibrations of the tree should give him the chance of landing on the opposite bank, and exclaiming the while,- "So you Yankee rascals have caught me, eh?"   434     TALES FOR THE MARINES. Coming up to the place, we beheld the pirate' clam- bering up a giant mahogany tree to the topmost branch- es, while Dolphin, with his cutlass betwixt his teeth, was going up hand over fist after him. There was not a pistol among us, or Kit might possibly have been spared the additional fatigue, after the race, of climbing up a tree.  Lowther had soon worked his way to the thorny summit over the torrent, and seemed to be intently examining the lesser growth below him. "Should he attempt to leap the stream from that height, he'll be dashed to atoms; but it will only save me the boat's painter, which I intend to hang him with. Ah, there he goes!" While the captain was speaking, the villain made a spring from the wide-spread branches of his perch, and making a long flight through the air, he alighted upon a tall, lance-like sapling, with a little tuft of branches at the top. This gave way to the force of his leap, and broke short off; but with great presence of mind he seized another within reach, which bent at first like a fishing rod, but did not give way. There he swung, with 'a- smile of devilish satisfaction creeping over his scarred and blackened face, suspended over the turbu- lent torrent, waiting till the vibrations of the tree should give him the chance of landing on the opposite bank, and exclaiming the while, - "So you Yankee rascals have caught me, eh?"   TALES FOR THE MARINES.       435 Then glancing up to Kit, he added, sc Why don't- you jump, you spotted scoundrel?" Dolphin was, in fact, in the act of attempting the leap at the risk of his life, when the fragile limbs, una- ble to bear his weight, gave way, and he was precipi- tated over and over through the yielding branches and leaves to the earth. All this took place in a much shorter time than it takes to tell it. The swing, however, of Lowther's pendulum movements seemed to be communicated to the surrounding foliage, and as he remained dangling about fifteen feet from the ground, in mid air, watching to make a safe descent, three or four of the light trees were without visible means bent together, and then flew back with a snap, making the quiet forest to rustle and trem- ble with the force. A second after we beheld the long, flat head, and scaly, sinuous body of a huge boa, of the size of a line-of-battle ship's hemp cable, protrude them- selves many feet from the trunk of a gnarled mahogany tree. With a malignant glare from his fiery eye, and shooting out his forked tongue as quick as lightning, he approached his victim. The horror-stricken wretch had only time to give one agonizing cry before the coils of the monster were around him. Tearing him like a worm from the sapling,-the serpent clutched him against the hard timber; and then, not in a screw-like or spiral twist, but with the great, muscular, shiny body, "in writhing layers and knots, he   craunched Lowther's bones, like so many sticks, be- neath the overwhelming pressure. The blood spitted from his eyes, nose, and ears, and he gave some half- stifled groans, as the serpent partially relaxed his hold. Making a succession of half revolutions, the monster again clasped him in his deadly embrace, and in one huge, hissing knot, dropped his prey upon the ground. Then, amid the undergrowth, we could see the coils spread out and brought together to make sure that life was extinct; then more rapid gyrations, until all was still; and finally, the boa's flat head raised high up, like a flexile tube, the mouth strained open, the great fangs protruding, the eyes darting flame, while the bruised, shapeless mass of human flesh lay within his folds, ready to be devoured. Such was the fate of the pirate. We remained no longer near the horrid spot than to be convinced that the villain had at last paid the penalty of his crimes. Then, retracing our steps to the mangroves, we con- trived to patch up the gig and return to the Juniata. This, said the Lieutenant, flinging his cheroot in the fire, closes my narrative; and I trust, ladies, that not only you, but Fred, here, Will swallow it without any more compunctions of conscience than the boa had in swallowing Lowther. O   PH TLTiIPS, SAMPSON, & C0,'8 CATALOG-UE OP Meg  arnnh alnahle  'nblirnfitnt , -OLD BY ALL BOOKrSB T-TRS T*IROUGHOUT THB UNITrED STATES, CANADAS, AND BRITISH PROVINCES. BOSTON: PHLLIPS, SAMPSON, AND .,COMPANY. NEW YORK' J, C. DERBY. t            r  w v r,   2    Phillips, Sampson,    Co.'s Publications. THE AMVRN L,         M a, NCA END REPOS  ITORY OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE for 1854; being the twenty-fifth volume of this invaluable manual. 12mo. Paper $1.00; half bound,. $1.25. offAn excellent work, deserving a place in evey counting robm and "Contains reliable information upon almost every possible topic.", Salem Regster. "A perfect vade mecum.".- -BFalo Express. "To the business man, the politician, and the lawyer, the American Almanac is invaluable." -Cincinnati Gazette. "It will be found useful to all, in every position of life.'i -Mobile leas "Crowded with important statistical matter." -X. 0. Crescnt. "We are frequently applied to by foreigners for the titles of works of reference, and we uniformly place the American Almanac on the cata- logue." - Huntfs Jerehants' Jagazine. The above is published annually. ALCOTT.-- LEOTURES ON LIFE AND REA L TH; OR, THE LAWS AND MR4 NS OF PHYS- ICAL    CULTURE.    By WM. A. ALCOTT, M. D.    12mo., cloth, with numerous illustrations and a fine portrait. $1.00.  "For popular use, we know of no better manual before the public." WFestern C. Advocate. "This is the crowning work of a veteran advocate and apostle of physi ological reform."--Harpers, Magazine. "A truly valuable production, and calculated to be of eminent service to all who diligently study it."-St. John's Weekly Observer. "We know not where so clear, concise, and rational a sketch of that information which all ought to possess, respecting the structure, liabilities, and care of the body, can be found.--JV. Y. Evangelist. ARTH U.- AD VIOE TO YO UN G MEN ON THEIR DUTIBS AND CONDUCT IN LIFE. By T. B. ARTHUR.  18mo., cloth plain, and cloth full gilt. 75 cents. ---A--IDVICE TO YOUUNG ILADIES ON THEIR DUTIES AND        CONDUCT IN LIFE. ByT. S. ARTHUR.   18mo., cloth plain, and cloth full gilt. 75 cents, "  Arthur is the most practical adviser we know of; and no one can read hk books without being benefited by them."-.Literary Revies. 1' 4-   Phillips, Sampson, f Co.'s Publications.   3  ABBOTT. THE ROLLO BOOKS, 6'OX1f PLETE IN FOURTEEN VOLUMES. By Rev. JACOB ABBOTT. 16mo., cloth. 50 cents per volume. ROLLO LEARJING TO T LK. ROLLO'S XUSEUM. ROLLO LEARNING TO READ. ROLLO'S TRAVELS. ROLLO AT7' WORK.      ROLLG'S CORRESPONDENCE. ROLQQ Al- "DY.      ROLLO'S PHLOSOPHY, Water. ROLLO' JT SCHOOL.      ROLLO'S PHLOSOPHY, Air. ROLLO'S V ACATION.     ROLLO'S PHLOSOPHY, Fire. ROLLO'$S EXPERIIEXTS.    ROLLO'S PHLOSOPHY, Sky. i The most popular and best series of juvenile books ever published." GEMS OF BEAUTY; OR, LITERARY GIFT.       Edited by EMLY PERCIVAL. Embellished with 9 -elegant engravings and colored illustrations. Splendidly bound, morocco extra, assorted colors, full gilt, $5.00; white calf, $5.50; muslin, $4.00. THE SOUVENIR    GALLERY. An illustrated gift book for all seasons. An elegant quarto volume, printed in superb style, and embellished with 13 elegant steel mezzotint engrav- ings. Morocco, gilt, $5.00. THE DIADEM. A Souvenir for the Drawing Room and Par- lor, and Gift Book for all seasons. Illustrated with 12 steel engravings by the first artists. Edited by EMLY PERCIVAL, One handsome quarto volume, muslin, gilt, extra, $5.00; mo- rocco, gilt, extra, $5.50. TH/E GIFT BOOK OF GEMS. A Literary Offering for all seasons, illustiated with 8 fine steel mezzotint engravings by  the first artists. Edited by EMLY PERCIVAL. Bound in mo- rocco, full gilt, 8vo. $5.00. THE ROSARY OF ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE BIBLtl 8vo.; containing 6 fine new mezzotint engravings from cele- brated Scripture subjects. Edited by Rev. EDWARD E. ALEo.    ' Morocco, full gilt, $3.0C; white calf, $4.00; muslin, full gilt, $2.8. 6                                I , 'a:                   , , $l   4   JPhMlips, Sampson,   Co.'s Publications. THE BOOK OF THE BOUDOIR; OR, MEMErNTO O  FRIENDSHIP. A G(ft for all Seasons.. Edited by ELLEN  "OUISE. Illustrated with 6 engravings.. One volume, quarto, elegantly bound. $5.00.  THE AMARANTH; OR, TOKEN OF REMEMBRANCE. A Christmas and New Year's Gift for 1855. Illustrated with fine steel engravings. 12mo., morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. THE GARLAND; OR, TOKEN OF FRIENDSHP. A Christmas and New Year's Gift Book for 1855. Embellished with steel engravings and colored plates. 12mo., bound in morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. GOLDEN GIFT. A Wreath of Gems-from the prose and poei ical Writers of Europe and America. Prepared especially as a gift book for all seasons. Elegantly printed with ornamental pages, and illustrated with fine engravings. 12mo. morocco, full gilt. Price j 2.00. THE LADYS GIFT; OR, SOUVENIR OF FRIEND SHP. A beautiful gift book, without date, containing colored and steel illustrations, and bound in morocco, full gilt, extra Price $2.00. ITHE TOKEN OF FRIENDSHP. A gift book for all sea- sons, illustrated with fine steel engravings and illuminations. Bound in morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. KEEPSAKE OF FRIENDSHP. A Christmas and New Year's Annual for 1855. Edited by G. S. MUNRoE. 12mo., embellished with 6 steel engravings and illuminations. Bound in morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. THE MAGNOLIA; OR, GIFT BOOK OF FRIENDSHP. Edited by CLARA ARNOLD. Illustrated with fine steel engrav- ings. 12mo., morocco, full gilt. Price $2.00. THE CASKET. A gift book for all seasons., Oe volume, duodecimo, illustrated with steel plates, and bound in morocco, gilt. Price $2.00. All of the above are great favorites with those purchasing appropriate gifts for the season. From the largest to the smallest, somnething may be i found to gratify the most fastidious taste. They are brought out in splen  did styles both as regards fineness of paper, clearness of type, beauty of illustration and elegance of binding."- Worcester Paladiumr 1     ^     pltps, Sampson; 3' O s Pzblicatins.      5' THE JUVENILE KEEPSAKE. A Gift Book for Young People. By Miss ARNOLD.' Illustrated with 8 fine engravings. Square 16mo., muslin, and muslin full gilt* 75 cts. and $1.00. THE FAVORITE STORY BOOK; OR, PLEASING SKETCHES FOR    YOUTH. Edited by ULARA ARNOLD. Embellished with several engravings. 16mo., muslin, and full gilt. Price 75 cents and 1.00. THE LITTLE MESSENGER BIRDS; OR, CHMES O0' THE SILVER   BBELLS. By Mrs. C. H. BUTLER.   Beauti- fully illustrated. Square 16mo., muslin, and muslin full gilt. Price 75 cents and $1.00. CHRISTMAS ROSES. Embellished with mezzotint engrav- ings by Ritchie. Square 16mo., muslin, and muslin full gilt. Price 75 cents and $1.00. THE ICE KING AND THE SWEET SOUTH WIND. By Mrs. C. H. BUTLER. Tastefully illustrated with engravings from original designs. Square 16mo., muslin, and muslin full gilt. Price 75 cents and $1.00. THE YOUTH'S DIADEM. A Book of Gems for the Young. Embellished with 7 fine tinted illustrations. One vol., 16mo., muslin, and muslin gilt. Price 75 cents and $1.00. "All these volumes are elegantly bound, and are by no means to be con- sidered as ephemeral, belonging merely to the gift season of Christmas and New Year, but are appropriate for any time and any occasion when a good and beautiful book is desired for the young." - Ladies? Repository. AUNT MARY'S STORIES FOR       CHLDREN.    Neatly illustrated. 16mo., cloth. Price 50 cents. "Exceedingly attractive." ARABIAN     NIGHTS' ENT'ERTAINMENT. A new edition, especially adapted to family reading. Embel- lished with numerous characteristic engravings from original designs by D. C. Johnston. Oneneat 12ing volume, bound m plain cloth, cloth full gilt, and morocco. Price $1.0:. plain. "The best one volume edition published." 1 i-* *   6    Phillips, Sampson, S ao.'s Publications. ARNA ULT. -LIFE AND CAMPAIGNS OF NAPOLEON. BONAPARTE. Giving an Account of all his  Engagements, together with his public and private Life, from      ! the Commencement to his final Imprisonment and Death on the Rock of St. Helena. Translated from the French of Ar- nault and Panckoucke. 12mo., cloth. Price, plain, $1.00. BULWER'S NOVELS. Containing Pelham, Dis-  owned, Devereux, Paul Clifford, Last Days of Pompeii, Eugene Aram, The Student, Rienz, Falkland, and Pilgrims of the Rhine. One volume, 8vo., cloth, and library style.. Price $3.00. MBROOKS'S UNIVERSAL GAZETTEER.- New edition, with census of the United States. One volume, 8vo., cloth. Price $2.00. BENNETT'S POULTRY BOOK. Being a corn plete-Treatise on the Breeding, Rearing, and General Manage- ment of Domestic Fowls. Illustrated with 756 Portraits and Engravings of Fowls taken from Life. 1 vol. 12mo., cloth. 76 cents.    . "This is the most thorough and complete of the treatises published." - Evening Transcript. "Its author is one of the most experienced fowl breeders in the coun- - try." - Portland Transpt.  "' All that is necessary to be known can be learned from this excellent book." - Juburn Journal.  "It is by far the best work that has ever appeared in America on this subject."- Piovidence Journal.   . BANCROFT'S LIFE OF GEORGE ]YWASH- INGTON. By AARON BANCROFT, D. D. One volume, 12mo., illustrated. Cloth, $1.00; cloth, gilt, $1.60.              B UNYAN.- THE PILjGRIM'S PR OGRESS. By JOHN BUNYAN. With Notes and a Life of the Author by . the Rev. T. SCOTT. One volume, 12mo., illustrated. Cloth, eL00; cloth, gilt, $1.60; morocco, $2.60.               a o(   Phillips, Sampson,   C o.'s Publications.  7 BURNS.- THE?COMPLETE WORKS OF, ROBERT BURNS. Containing his Poems,* Songs, and Cor- respondence, with a new Life of the Poet, and Notices, critical and biographical. By ALLAN CUNNINGHAM. Elegantly illus- trated with steel engravings. One volume, royal 8vo. Bound in cloth, library, cloth gilt, morocco, half calf, Turkey full gilt, and Turkey antique. Price $3.00 to $6.00.  "This is the best edition published in this country." B URNS'S POETIQAL WORKS. With Life, Glossary, and Notes. A new edition. One volume, 12mo., with portrait. (From new plates.) Bound in cloth, plain, cloth, full gilt sides and edges, and morocco, extra. Price $1.00 to $2.60. BYRON'S COMPLETE WORKS. Embracing his Suppressed Poems, Letters, and a Sketch of his Life. This is a new edition of Byron, from new stereotype plates, and edited by a distinguished literary gentleman. It will be found to be the most complete edition published in the country. One volume, 8vo., illustrated, and bound in cloth, library, cloth full gilt, morocco, half calf, Turkey, full gilt, and Turkey antique. Price $3.00 to g6.00. BYRON'S POETICAL WORKS. With aSketch of his Life. One volume, 12mo., embellished with a steel por-. trait. Cloth, gilt, gilt sides and edges, and morocco, extra Price $1.00 to $2.60. BEA UONT AND FLETCHR. With an Intro- duction and very elaborate Notes by Rev. ALEXANDER DYCE, D D. Complete in two volumes, 8vo., with portraits. Bound in cloth, library, cloth gilt, morocco, half calf, Turkey, full gilt, aw d Turkey antiqs-e. Pice $6.00 to $12.00.   8    Phillips, Sampson,    a Co.'s Publications. BANKER'S COMMONPLACE BOOK. A Treatise on Banking, the Duties of a Banker, and his personal Requisites therefor. 12mo., paper, 38 cents; cloth, 50 cents "The articles are written by the ablest and most practical men of the times, making it an invaluable book, not only to bankers, but for readers of every kind who desire a knowledge of what has heretofore been deemed the occult science of banking."  BRIGGS.- UTTERANCE; OR, PRIVATE VOICES TO   THE PUBLIC HEART.      A Collection of Home Poems by CAROLINE A. BRIGGS. 12mo., cloth, 88 cents; cloth, gilt, $1.25. (' One of the sweetest collections of simple, unpretending home poems we have ever met. Very many of them have been set to music, and are every where great favorites. We hardly know its equal in its peculiar style. Reader, if you have a taste for such, do not fail to possess it."- Literary Review. BAIRD. - THE AMERICAN COTTON SPIN- NER AND MANAGER'S AND CARDER'S GUIDE. A practical Treatise on Cotton Spinning, giving the Dimen- sions and Speed of Machinery, Draught and Twist Calcula- tions, etc.; with Notices of recent Improvements, together with Rules and Examples for making Changes in the Size and Numbers of Roving Yarn. By ROBERT H. BAIRD. One vol ume, 12mo. Price $1.00. BURRITT. -THO UGHTS AiND THJNGS AT HOME A4ND ABROAD. By ELIxr BURRITT, the Learned Blacksmith. Price $1.00. BEECH ER.-THE TRUIE REM EDY .FOR THE  WRONiGS OF WOMAN. With a history of an enter- prise having that for its object. By CATHARINE E. BEECHER. 12mo., cloth. Price 75 cents. sa There are so many undeniable facts, so much powerful reasoning, and such a chivalric spirit, in this work, that it deserves to be attentively read by all who have the good of society at heart.? - Home Journal, "What a noble state of society it would be, could Miss Beecher's ideas be realized! and what a noble plea she has made for woman! Let no thinking mind fail to read it."- S. L. Gazette.     
         
       
   
