
    ----CITATION----
        Reid, Christian, (1846-1920). Nina's Atonement, and Other Stories .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8071
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Nina's atonement, and other stories 
            
               N"-:

I'
'ii
i

r 1


NINA'S ATONEMENT,

AND OTHER

STORIES.

BY

CHRISTIAN REID,
7, "
AUTHOR OF "MORTON HOUSE,  VALERiE AY~IER~'~ ETC., ETC.
WITH ILL ?7STRA TIONS.
NEW YORK:
D. APPLETON ANII COMPANY,
549 &amp; 551 BROADWAY.~
1873.


C ONTEI{TS.

according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873,
B~ D. APPLETON &amp; CO.,
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

NINA'S ATONEMENT
hUGH'S VENDETTA
MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL
MY STORY     *
THE PAINTER'S DREAM
POWELL VARDRAY'S LIFE
BERNARD'S INVENTION~

PAGN
* I
41
* 63
83
* 103
127
* 141

'l


NINA$ ATONEMENT.

CHAPTER 1.
NINA was nineteen on the 21st day of
June. It was a glorious day for a birth-
day, the young girl thought, as she stood on
the terrace of Wyverne House, looking out
over the picturesque country in the full beau-
ty of its midsummer loveliness, the green,
waving woods, the golden wheat-fields over
which the soft breeze stole with a gentle,
billowy swell, the stately old house standing
with an air of conscious pride among its
sentinel-trees, the garden abounding in sum-
mer bloom and fragrance, the shrubbery full
of green depths of shadowy coolness and
stretches of velvet turf. Taken just then, it
would have been hard to find a lovelier place,
than this home of the Wyvernes; but Juan
Fernandez was probably a lovely place, also,
only4tbis fact did not prevcnt.Alexander Sel-
kirk from finding it exceedingly dull-and
scarcely less dull than Juan Fernandez was
Wyverne House. As Nina stood on the ter-
race, she~ was thinking, rather desponde~itly,
of the monotonous years which stretched
behind her, and of the equally monotonous
ones which might lie in advance. It was not
a very entrancing prospect; and, although.
the girl was sufficiently of an optimist to ac-
cept life as it had been given, it was impos.
sible to avoid a feeling of blank weariness
on this anniversary of birth, when one has a
right to look existence in the face and ask
what it has brought in the past; or is likely
to bring in the future.
The answer t'o these questions was brief

enough, as far as she was concerned. It had
brought food and rainiest, and a roof to shel-
ter her, up to this date; it offered, with lavish
generosity, the same good gifts for an indefi-
nite length of time in the future. There are
plenty~of people in the world-good, narrow.
miitded, narrow-lived people-who would have
thought such gifts all she could possibly need,
and that to harbor even a longing for any
thing beyond, for some gleam of that bright.
ness so dear to the eager heart of youth, w~s
rank discontent and ingratitude. Given "~
comfortable home," nothing in particular to
do, and not the faintest suspicion of unkind
treatment to endure, and how could a girl, who
had not a shilling in her own right, venture to
expect or wish for more? How couldahe pos-
sibly venture to indulge that desire for some-
thing beyond the dry husks of life, which is
common to all forms of buoyant youth, and
which, however carefully it may be repressed,
can never be wholly subdued until the apgthy
of age comes to teach sometinie~ resignation,
but more often the indifference that is born of
hopelessness? Yet, it may be saidfor Ninathat
she did not often indulge these wishes, hopes,
regrets, or whatever, they might be called.
They were uncomfortable, and the girl was
too much of an epicurean to wflhipgly endure
discomfort, much less to seek it. ~She chafed
a little, sorpetimes, against the dull stagnation
in which her youth aud heautyseemed strand-
ed; but itwas easier ~o accept things ~s they
came, and to content herself with her novelS,
her tnusic, her dreams, and the few domestic
occupations tl~t had fallen into her han4s.-


NINA'S ATONEMENT.

NINA'S ATONEMENT.

very few they were, for Mrs. Wyverne was a
notable housekeeper, with no fancy for shar-
ing the reins of government. "It i~ a pity
Nina is not more domestic," this lady often
said but she had taken no pains to make
Nina more domestic, even if any amount of
pains would have accomplished that result-
which is highly doubtful. And so the girl
had dreamed and loitered her life away, until
she waked with a start1 on her nineteenth
birthday, to the realization that this monoto-
ny was to make the suni of her existence in
the future as entirely as it had made it in the
past.
Such a realization is always a shock, No
life can be very irksome while there is hope
of escape from it; but when we once realize
that there is no escape-short of that dread
change from which humanity recoils-we feel
as if even that with which we were moderate.
ly content yesterday had grown intolerable
t*-day. Standing on the terrace that fair mid-
summer day, some such phase of feeling came
to Nina. She felt how hopelessly she was tied
to the life which she had already begun to dis- 1
like, and which abe' woujd probably end ~by
loathing-and, feeling this, a sudden longing
to escape came over her-a longing all the
greater because there was scarcely any thing
in the world less possible or less probable for
her ~than escape. She was not only entirely
dependent on the bounty of her uncle, but she
had promised to marry his son. 'Now, this
son-the only hope and heir of the honse of
Wyverne-was, like all of his family, a model
of domestic virtue. lie was one of the men
to whom it would never occur that there was
a 'duty In life beyond his well-tilled fields, or
a pleasure beyond his hearthstone, and a cer-
tain crotchet to be noticed hereafter; a man
well kiiown through all the c~uhtry-side to
be a walking~ bundle of gobd qualities, and
eminently fitted to, make the happiness of a
"home-loving" woman's life. What he was
calculated to' be to a woman who was riot
home-loving, it' is'.'scarcely worth while to
say. If. we took the vote of the' world at
large on the fate 'of' such women-such
"monstrosities," Con li~, surrounded by her
jewels, is fond of calling them-not the most
truthful record of sufthring~ could alter the
stern verdict "Served her zigliti"
SuebTas he was, howevca, Ralph Wyverne
had been 'engaged to his pretty, penniless
cousin for s~veral months; and, asNina' st&amp;od

absently plucking at her engagement - ring,
she was wondering if it was indeed true that
she would be married before another moon
had waxed and waned. "At least, that will
be sons change!" she thought. And then
she yawned. After all, would it be much
more entertaining to live the same old life as
Nina Wyverne than as Nina flalsell? It was
a question which she did not choose to an.
swer "Kismet!" she said, 4hrugging her
shoulders. Then she turned and strolled
toward the house.
As she entered the ball, a servant, whom
she met, told her that her cousin, who had
been absent' for several days, had returned.
"When' did he come?" she asked, indiffer-
ently, as she took oil' her hat, pushing her
hair from her face-flushed and overheated
by her walk through the sun.
"Half an hour ago, ma'am, and there's
another gentleman with him," Price an-
swered. '
"Another gentleman with him 1" repeated
Nina, and she frowned a little. It was not
probable that Ealph'had brought another
gentleman from the city,'where he had been
on business.' At least, such an i4ea never oc-
curred to her. It was one of the neighbors,
no doubt, whom he had met as he drove over
from the railroad.' ~' How provoking 1" she
said, as she moved away, without giving Price
any further opportunity for enlightening her.
The neighbors, individually or collectively,
represented to Nina every thing in the world
-that is, in law world-most' tiresome. She
knew 'every one of them so well, had been
bored by every one of them so often, that she
sighed with a dismal sense of coming weari-
ness, as she crossed the hall toward the draw-
ing-room, from which 'the sound of voices is-
sued.
And so, with a cloud of irnpatien~e, not so
well concealed as it should have been, on her
white brow, with her pretty hair carelessly
'pushed back 'from her face, and the usual
color on her cheeks deepened into the love-
liest flush imaginable, she entered 'the room,
where Ralph at once sprang eagerly to meet
her, and where a bro~n.eyed, brown-haired,
brown- mustached Stranger was talking to
Mrs. Wyverne.
"Oh I-not one of the neighbors, after
all!" Nina thought, bestowing her first glance
-as was natural enough-upon such a rare
aria, as an uud~ubted and indisputable stran~

ger was, at Wyverne House. "How d'ye do, ever, this i~ such an arbitrary term, that
Ralph?" she said to her fiance'. "You must Martindale's incredulity in the first instance,
have found it very warm driving over from and surprise in the second, were not remark-
the station. We none of us looked for you able. Like most of us, he had heard so much
to-day. What made you come without writ- of beauty, and seen so little, that he had
ingi"'                                    grown thoroughly skeptical of aU hearsay evi-
Now, most men arriving unexpectedly at deuce regarding it; and so he was fairly star-
home, even after the absence of a few days tied by the radiant loveliness of the face be%
only, would scarcely have' been flattered by fore him 'It will not do to describe Nina,
such a welcome as this; but Ralph Wyverne because carping critics might have said, with
was the most unexacting of lovers. Up to a great deal of truth, that the bloom which
this time, Nina' had done and could do no made her so entrancing-which rested like
wrong in his eyes. He had been her devoted down on the softly.rounded cheek and chin-
and unquestioning slave from the time that was only that evaneseenVglory which French-
she first came to them, a pretty child-maiden, men call the gift of the devil. Evanescent or
with' the airs of a young princess. " not, however, the devil certainly knows very
"I thought you might not be sorry to see well what he is about 'when he bestow it
me a little sooner than you expected," he an- upon those whom be intends for purposes of*
swered, smiling.' "And then I remembered' special mischief.i Assuredly, few men could
what day it was, 'and I came to wish you have turned from that bewildering freshness
many happyreturns, Ninetta." ' and 'brilliance of tint, that melting grace of
"Did you?" ssid Nina. "It was very outline, from the challenge of those lustrous'
kind of you-but be good enough to wish eSres, or the crisp wuve' of that bright-bronze
that there may be more entertaining returns; hair, to rave ovcr 'the very featuresof Helen
while you are about it. I was wondering' this -granting even that Helen's features were
morning whether I was most 'a woman or a what they are generally suppomd to have been.
cabbage! And pray~~ (lowering her voice) '"Ithink I caught glimpse of Miss Dal-
"who is this you have brought home with zell, as we drove round the terrace," Martinr.
you?" dale said. "'At least I saw awbite dress, but
"It is Martindale!" Ralph answered, with it did not notice 'us."
a glow of enthusiasm. "I met him in the "It did not see you," Nina answered.
city. He is just back from Germany, wher@ Although her life had been almost as ac-
he has been studying chemistry, and he has eluded as' that of Miss Thackera'y's "Sleep-
comedown to help rae with my experiments." ing Beauty," she had' never 'suffered from
"Indeed!" said Nina, in a tone which the shyness which afflicted poor Cecilia,
spoke volumes of polite scorn-but, whether and which, almost invariably, afflicts all of
for the 'experiments 'or for the new-comei-,'it Cecilia's prototypes. "I wonder I did. not
was hard to tell. '"So this is the Mr. 'Martin- see you,"she pursued; "but I suppose Iwas
dale of whom you talk so much I" she 'added, thinking of something. else. I remember I
glancing 'again at the stranger - this time fell into quite a brown study, as people say.
more critically than she had done before. It is not a very pleasant way of passing ti1~me;
"This is Martindale I" said Ralph, almost but it is useful and profitable on one's birth-
triumphantly.       '       ' '           day."
Then,' as a lull came in the conversation "Is to-day your birthday?" asked Martin-
between Mrs. Wyverne and the brown-mug- dale. "It is Midsummer-Day.-..the longest of
ached stranger, he addressed the latter: the year."
"Martindale, let me present you to my cousin, "Is that any reason why it should not be
Miss DaIzelL" ' ' ' ' my 'birthday ?": the young iadj' demanded.
"By Jove! the one to whom he is en- "I was thinking only a little while 'ago what
gaged I "that gentleman thought, as he bowed a lovely day it is for the pmxrp6se-..t'he crown,
to the 'young girl, who in truth had quite as it were, of summer~ricb'ne~s ~and ;beauty.
dazzled him when she came into the room. And then there is something bf fairy romance
He had not been looking for any thing half so hanging over it. Who ~an think ofMidsurim.
lovely, although Ralph had told him that she f mer Night without thinking 'of Oberon, and
was "a beauty.~~ As every one knows, how. Titania, and Puck?"

2

3


4                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.                                                       NINA'S ATONEMENT.

"We will go out tonight, and look for
them," said Ralph. "Don't the old romances
say that fairies hold a certain power over chit-
dren born on the midsummer festival? Per.
haps they will bring you a gift, Nina."
"They have never done so, yet," said Ni-
na, shrugging her shoulders. "It would be
rather late to begin when one is nineteen-
don't you think so, Mr. Martindale?"
"is nineteen so venerable an age that it is
the bound of all things?" asked Martindale,
laughing.
But he was sorry for h'av~ig yielded to the
inclination when he saw Nina flush and turn
away7 plainly offended. There was nothing
which she disliked so much as being laughed
aL it is not particularly agreeable to ~any.
body; hut Nina had no great sense of humor,
and a most especial dread of ridicule. "Your
friend is very uncivil," she said to Ralph,
who followed her to the window whither she
walked.
"lie did not mean to be uncivil," Wyverne
said, apologetically. "I think you will'like
him when you know him, Nina."
"Shall I?" asked Nina, sarcastically.
"It will be a remarkable fact, then, for I
don't often like people, and I am sure I shall
not like any chemical person. What made
you bring him, Ralph? I think it was very
disagreeable of you."
"lie is such an old friend of mine," said
Ralph, a little crestfallen. "And then the
experiments, Nina I Martindale is a good
practical chemist, which I am not; and he
will know how far I am right and how far
wrong."
"I know that you are going to blow us
all to atoms before you are done with your
nonsense," Nina said, impatiently. "I really
think that you ought to have more sense, and
more regard for my wishes."
"As for not having more sense, I can't
help that, you know, dear," said Ralph, smil-
ing; "while, as for your wishes-you will
thank me for disregarding them when I make
a fortune for you."
"And what good would a dozen fortunes
do me kere I" demanded impetuous Nina.
"I have heard you say that you would not
leave Wyverne if you were as rich as-as the
Rothachilds! Besides, I don't believe in the
fortune-it is all stuff! You are not thinking
about it. You are only thinking about your
horrid experiments."

"I can't help liking them, you know," he
said, with a ludicrous air of apology.
And, although the fact should not have
required an apology, it was true enough.
Nature has strange freaks, and she had va-
ried the dull monotony of the Wyverne race
by developing an unsuspected man of science
among them. If ever there was a born
chemist, Ralph Wyverne was that man.
From an early period of boyhood, he had
dabbled in chemistry, had many times fright.
ened the family out of their wits by untimely
explosions, had turned his room at college
into a laboratory, and since his return home
devoted all his spare time to ~experiments
which the family in general regarded very
much as the people of the middle ages re-
garded witchcraft and demonology. "The
boy is crazy!" his father said, contemptu-
ously, while Nina viewed the whole thing
with unqualified impatience. "As if you had
to earn your bread!" she would say, scorn.
fully, to Ralph, and when he talked of science
she only stopped her ears. Men of science
in all ages have had to bear this kind of
treatment, however, Wyverne consoled him-
self by thinking; and having a great deal
of obstinacy in a quiet way, as well as a
great love for his "experiments," his chem-
ical enthusiasm managed to survive it.
It was a fact, significant of the narrow
limits of his life, that the only person whom
he had ever found to sympathize with him
was the man he now introduced so unex-
pectedly into his family circle-this Martin-
dale, who had been an erratic but brilliant
student of considerable promise when Ralph
knew him at college, full of devotion to sci-
ence, but full also of crude theories, wild
enough to have exploded the whole system
of chemistry as at present held and expound-
ed. He had gained practical knowledge since
that time in the laboratory of a distinguished
German chemist; but, being a shrewd and
clever thinker, he still inclined rather to the
theoretical than the practical school. Too
visionary, and too much a man of the world,
to be ever eminent as a man of science, older
chemists thought; but still, for so young a
man, one or two lucky circumstances had al-
ready given him an enviable reputation in his
profession, and Ralph's faith in Martindale
was scarcely less than his faith in Faraday.
To Nina, however, his name only represented
a great deal of boredom. Ralph, full of en-

thusiasm for the talents of his friend, had
insisted on reading to her one or two of his
scientific articles, over which she had yawned
dismally. She had heard so much of him in
connection with retorts and crucibles, blow-
pipes and gases, that she had drawn one of
those lively fancy sketches in which we are
all prone to indulge-a portrait of a tall,
light-haired, round-shouldered student, afflict-
ed with shyness and spectacles. She was
particularly sure of the spectacles, and was,
therefore, naturally surprised when she saw a
slender, handsome, well - dressed man, who
scanned her coolly with clear, brown eyes, full
of keen observation and a dash of humor
which she did, not fancy.
After the affront he had so unwittingly
given, she saw very little more of him for the
rest of the morning. It cannot be said, how-
cvcr, that this was her fault, or the fault of
Martindale, either. The latter, being a man
of taste as well as a chemist, would probably
have liked to prosecute his acquaintance with
the pretty, piquant face which had burst
upon him so unexpectedly, and would car-
tainly have preferred to spend the morning in
the cool, dark, old-fashioned drawing-room,
to broiling in an attic apartment which Ralph
proudly called his laboratory. But he had no
alternative of choice. To' Nina's indignation,
Wyverne hurried off on the first decent pre-
text to that chosen retreat of science, taking
his friend along. "On my birthday, tool"
she thought, angrily. Not that she honestly
cared for her cousin's society-which more
frequently wearied than interested~ her-but
to be neglected at all was something which
this unreasonable young lady could illy brook
-and to be neglected for chemistry was in-
supportable indeed.
It must be recorded that she was mali-
cious enough to feel a sensation of pleasure
when she read "disappointed" legibly printed I
on Ralph's countenance as she met, or, rath- I
er, was overtaken by him on her way down-
stairs before dinner.
"I hope you have enjoyed your morn- I
ing! she said, very stiffly, as he drew her
hand into his arm; but, when she looked up
into his face and saw the inscription already
mentioned, she was sufficiently heartless to c
laugh. "Dear mel I am afraid you have not
enjoyed it, after all," she said.      I s
"I am an ignorant fool, Nina," said poor I
Ralph, humbly. "It was all a mistake, dear. t

My experiments have come to nothing. Mar.
iindale says the idea is a good one-I knew
tkat-but the process has been all wrong. In
fact, he thinks the result I wish to obtain im-
practicable.".
"Well, I hope you are satisfied I" said
Nina, in a tone of triumph. "How often
have I told you the same thing! But you
only laughed at me, because I was not a
chemist. Now that Mr. Martindale, who is a
chemist, has told you that it is all nonsense,
I hope you will throw all your things into the
fire and have done with them."
"That is asking rather too much of me,"
said Ralph, laughing a little, despite his sore
disappointment, and the still sorer sense of
how little this disappointment was to the per-
son who represented nil the sweetness and
fairness of the world to him.
At dinner, nothing further regarding the
matter transpired, only Nina was rather more
gracious to Mr. Martindale than she might
otherwise have been. She was very much
obliged to him for telling Ralph that his ob-
noxious experiments amounted to "nothing,"
and that the result which he wished to oh-
tain-though what this result was, she had
not the faintest idea-was "impracticable."
It showed more sense than she had expected
from anybody who was " a chemical person~~
himself; and she manifested her apprecia-
tion by a degree of affability which astonished
Ralph, and amused Martindale not a little.
She was quite a piquant study, the latter
thought, with her petulance, her patronage,
her insouciance, and her really striking beau-
ty. Nina would have been enraged if she
had known how well she was entertaining
this student of chemistry and of human na-
ture, unconsciously to herself.
It chanced, however, that she was .~des-
tined to entertain him still better-to give
~im a still clearer insight into her character-...
2efore the day was over. After the usual
fiesta, horses were always brought to the
loor at Wyverne House, and, as regularly as
~he day showed neither rain nor clouds, ~Nina
vent to ride-sometimes with R~lph, some-
lines with her uncle, oftenest ~with both.
)n the present afternoon, when she came
lown in her habit, she found that Martindale
ms to join the party. This might have been
aid to be necessary-since it is a rule of civil.
zed life that civilized people must go through
he form of providing amusement for their

NINA'S ATONEMENT.


6                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.                                                      NiNA'S ATONEMENT.                   7

guests-but at least it was not necessary for
Ralph to have selected that particular occasion
for reminding his father of certain lands which
were to be cleared, and upon. which it was
necessary to decide, involving a ride through
a part of the plantation where neither Nina
nor Martindale would have found any thing of
interest.
"~ If Martindale has no objection, you can
fake him with you through the woods, Nina,"
Ralph said, good-humoredly. "We will meet
at the house."
"Perhaps Mr. Martindale has an objec-
tion," Nina demurred, looking with a spark
of mischief in her eyes at that gentleman.
"It is very likely," the latter answered,
dryly; "I know so much about the clearing
of lands, and would probably feel such a live.
ly interest in them, that Ralph should certain-
ly take me with him as final referee on any
disputed point."
"Oh, for the matter of that," said Miss
Daizell, nonc~aIantIy, "we have nothing of
special interest in the neighborhood. I can-
not promise you a single interesting object or
view; so, perhaps you might find it as enter-
taining to hear Ralph and uncle discuss their
fields, as to ride with inc through the woods
and back again to the house."
"Perhaps you would prefer the discussion
yourself," he suggested.
But she shrugged her shoulders.
"I have listened to talk of that kind every
afternoon for the last ten years," she said.
"It has lost the merit of novelty, therefore,
which I fancy is the only merit it could ever
have possessed I am going this way," she
added, turning her horse's head. "Of course
you can come if you like."
"Thanks," said he, amused by the gra-
ciousness of the permission.
They left the dusty high-road which they
had been following, to enter a bridle-path,
deeply arched over with shade, and looking
as if it might have led into the heart of an
enchanted forest.
"Since this is Midsummer - Eve, we may
hope to meet a fairy or two," Martindale said,
after a while.
"Let us also hope, then, that they will
bring me the gift of which Ralph spoke this
morning," said Nina, with a slight, wistful
sigi).
Slight as it was, this sigh did not escape
the quick ear of her companion. He won-

dered a little what it meant, and, being fond
of studying any problem which chance threw
in his way, it occurred to him that it might
be worth while to discover the cause of that
soft inspiration.
"I fear that you would not be a fit recipi-
ent for fairy bounty," he said, smiling. "If
I met a prince, arrayed in the traditional green
and gold hunting-suit, riding along just now,
I should be more inclined to doff my hat in
salute, than to offer him charity."
"I am stupid, I suppose," said Nina, "but
I don't see the force of the comparison. How
am Ilike the prince, or how would the fairies
be like you?"
"The fairies would only be like me inas-
much as, meeting you, they would probably
say, 'She was born on our festival, but what
can we bestow on her now that was not be-
stowed at her birth? She has beauty, wit,
wealth, the charm to win and to keep love-.
what more can we give, with all our pow-
er?'"
"That is very pretty," said Nina, coldly;
"but you see the fairies-if they were fairies
-would know better than that. Instead of
paying me empty compliments, they would
know that there is a great deal they could
give-for which I should be very thankful."
" I suppose nobody is ever entirely pleased
with his lot in life," said Martindale, philo-
sophically, "but I should have been tempted
to suppose that if anybody ever is satisfied,
it might have been yourself."
"Whos~ you have known since eleven
o'clock this morning!" said she, with a
laugh. "Do you usually decide upon peo-
pie's 'lot in life' so promptly, Mr. Martin.
dale? If so, you must possess either excep-
tional powers of judgment, or exceptional
confidence in your own acuteness."
The mockery of her tone pleased rather
than provoked her listener, lie laughed a
little himself as he turned in his saddle and
looked at her, admiring the graceful, stately
figure-Nina was " a woman with a presence,~
-the bright face vivid with color, the lovely
eyes full of malicious amusement. "How
pretty she is I" he thought, "and what a
spice of the devil she has I ".
"It does not follow that I possess either
exceptional powers of judgment or excep-
tional confidence in my own acuteness, be-
cause I have been able to read at first sight
some features of your life," he said aloud.

"I should be blind as well as dull if I did
not read them."
"It does not follow that, because you
have read you have understood," said she,
falling into his trap with a facility that grati-
fied him.
"Nothing could be more true," said he.
"It does not, of course, follow that, because
1 have read, I have understood; but neither
does it follow that, because I have read, I
have not understood."
"And yet," said she, with another laugh-
this time a little bitter--" you think my life
so perfect that, if 1 were to meet a fairy at
this moment, there is nothing she could pos-
sibly need to give me!"
"Nay," said he-and in the deep, wood-i
land stillness through which they were riding,
his voice seemed full of a sudden expression
which thrilled her-" I did not mean to im-
ply that your life was perfect. I said that.
you had many gifts-it is true, is it not?-
but one may lack as well as possess. Indeed,
in lacking some things, one lacks all things;
and content is one of them."
It was a shrewd guess, and one which
made Nina flush up to her temples-angry
with him for speaking so plainly, angry with
herself for having betrayed so much.
"I fancy content is one of the things
which we all lack," said she, trying to answer
indifferently. "All of us find monotony un-
pleasant, all of us think that we should like
to season our lives with a little more spice.
Color, zest, perfume, as the French say-some
of our lives lack all of these things horribly;
hut probably they will go on lacking them to
the end."
"Why should they?" he asked-adding,
as he turned and looked at him, "you must
pardon me if I say that some people arc born
for a groove, but you are not one of them."
"How do you know what 1 was born for?"
asked Nina, curtly. "I did not say I was not
very well satisfied with my life. At least"
(shrugging her shoulders slightly), "if I were
not willing to live always at Wyverne, I
should scarcely be engaged to marry with
Ralph."
"And do you think that to live always at
Wyverne will satisfy you in the future, even
though it may "-a doubtful accent here-
"have done so in the past?"
She laughed - a slightly forced effort.
There was something in the tone of the ques-

1 tion, as well as in the intent gaze of the brown
eyes looking at her, which made her a little
nervous. They were riding just then through
a ravine, where a green, dusky gloaming,
inexpressifily full of fantastic suggestions,
reigned. If she had done what was wise, if
she had even done what instinct prompted,
she would have waived the question which
Martindale had no possible right to ask.
But a sudden, reckless impulse made her an-
swer it in words which she was afterward
destined to remember and repent.
"Are you a fairy?" she said. "Fairies
sometimes conic under strange disguises.
Have you the power to spirit me away from
Wyverne if I should confess that its monot-
ony has grown almost intolerable to me?"
"This is Midsummer. Day," and fairies,
as you say, come under strange disguises
sometimes. If you would believe in me, there
is no telling what I might not do. I might
even spirit you away to a world where you
would be happy. But, in all ages, enchanters
have demanded trust."
"Which I am not ready to give," said
Nina, feeling that this had gon~ too far. It
was pleasant-it had a flavor of that spice
which she desired-but still she felt that Mr.
Martindale's glances and Mr. Martindalc's
tones would not have elicited Ralph's appro-
bation, if he had seen or heard them; and,
foolish and reckless though she was, the girl
meant to he honest, after a somewhat blun-
dering and indefinite fashion.
Perhaps you will give it after a time,~~
the would-be enchanter said, quietly. "Mean-
while, I should like you to remember that out-
lives cre what we ma/ce them."
"I don't believe it," said she, scornfully.
"Or, if it is true at all, it is true only of men
-never of women. Circumstances make us."
"That is only because you do not know
how to take advantage of them," said he,
coolly.
But this provoked Nina, who knew how
arbitrary the circumstances of her life had
been.
"You only say so because you I/ave never
known what they really are," she retorted.
"I agree with the writer who said that if a
letter were written to Circumstances, and sub-
scribed 'Your obedient servant,' the vast ma-
jority of mankind could sign it with tue
greatest truthfulness."
"It is certainly true that we are often in-


8                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.                                                      NINA'S ATONEMENT.                   9

debated to them for some very good gifts,"
said he. "It hung, for instance, o~i a turn
of chance, yesterday, whether or not I should
come down here with Ralph. If I had not
done so-"
"You would have been spared the neces-
sity of blasting poor Ralph's hopes about his
cherished 'idea,"' said Nina, laughing.
He started. "Have I blasted his hopes?"
he asked. Then he, too, laughed a little--
not a pleasant laugh, the girl thought.
"Such hopes are easily revived ag~in," he
said. "There ia nothing on~earth so hard to
kill as an inventor's fancy."
Something in his tone, as well as in his
laugh, struck Nina unpleasantly, but she did
not answer-perhaps because they emerged,
just then, out of the dusky forest to an open
space, where they saw
"The flower-like sunset shed Its mystic blooms"
over t~he broad fields, the shadowy woods, a
winding road in the distance where some cat-
tie lingered, green hills near at hand melting
into blue ones afar off, valleys bright with
streams which caught the reflection of the
gorgeous west, and purple hollows where
night seemed already to have gathered.
There were few sounds to break the stillness
only the soft music of falling water, the
distant tinkle of a cow-bell, the note of a
mocking-bird, or the coo of a wood-pigeon.
"Is it not lovely ?"Nina said, leaning her
elbow on the pommel of her saddle and her
cheek on her hand.
"Very lovely 1" her companion answered,
and something in his tone made her glance
quickly round. Then she saw that he was
looking, not at the sunset scene, but at her-
self.
CHAPTER II.
"Tun moon has not risen yet, Nina," said
Ralph, "but the starlight is beautiful. Shall
we go out and see if we can find the elfin
folk?"
Tea was ovnr, and they were gathered in the
drawing-room-all somewhat dull and some-
what stiff--when he made this proposal. Mrs.
Wyverne was crocheting by the shaded lamp,
round which a few moths wore circling; Mr.
Wyverne was posing to Martiadale, who
looked as much bored as a well-bred man
ever permits himself to appear; Nina had

been singing, but she i~osc from the piano,
and, walking to one of the large, open win-
dows, stood looking wistfully out, when Ralph
spoke.
"Yes," she answered, eagerly. "Let us
go on the terrace. If we don't find Queen
Titania and her court, we shall, at least, find
freshness and coolness."
"Martindale, will you come?" said Ralph,
raising his voice; and he did not understand
why Nina frowned so quickly and sharply at
the words.
"You will find me on the terrace," she
said; and, stepping through the window, she
walked away-a tall, straight, white-clad fig-
ure, soon lost to sight in the starlit gloom.
Martindale left Mr. Wyverne with a scarce-
ly intelligible excuse, and crossed the room.
"Where is it you wish to go?" he said to
Ralph, who was standing with a rather blank
expression of countenance where he had been
left.
"Only out on the terrace for some fresh
air," the other answered. " Will you come?
It is very warm, and not particularly enter-
taining, in here."
"Is that where Miss DaIzell has gone?"
"Yea She said we would find her there."
"Lead on," said Martindale, cheerfully.
"One certainly does prefer to enjoy summer
nights a!f~-esco."
They stepped out of the window and
walked around the terrace for some distance,
but they found no sign of Nina. The moon,
as Ralph hail said, was not yet risen, but the
soft, clear starlight rendered all immediate
objects sufficiently distinct. It was one of
those glowing, brilliant nights which only
midsummer gives, the purple skies ablaze
with radiance arching from horizon to hori-
zon, the earth dark, fragrant, full of mystery,
yet touched with a tender, delicate lustre.
"Nina must have gone down into the gar-
den," Ralph said, after a while.
"Never mind Miss DaIzell just now,"
Martindale responded, in rather a peculiar
voice. "We will find her in a moment.
Meanwhile, I have something to say to you
about-that idea of yours. Perhaps I was a
little hasty in what I told you this morning.
I have been thinking it over since then. ~l
should like to examine your notes again.
Perhaps, after all, it may be possible to per-
fect it." -
He spoke awkwardly and constrainedly-..

like a man who was bot certain how much he
wished to say or leave unsaid-but Ralph was
too full of delighted surprise to notice or at-
tach any significance to his manner.
"My dear fellow," he answered, eagerly,
"you cannot tell how glad I am to hear you
say that! I am a fool, I suppose, but I have
dreamed and experimented over that idea so
long, that it went hard with me when you said
it was impracticable. I know that I have ut-
terly failed in working it out; but I am only
a dabbler in chemistry. If you take it in
hand, now-"
"I may fail as completely as you have
done," Martindale interrupted, shortly and
almost, sternly. "You must not hope any
thing from my experiments-at least, not
much. 1 am only a dabbler, and an erratic
one, myself. Still, 1 will take the idea, and
try to work it out, if you say so."
"Of course I say so 1" Wyverne said, with
a ring of enthusiasm in his tone which his
companion knew well. He had heard it in
the voices of others, and in his own, many
times. It was a token of the fever which
science can beget as well as art. "You can-
not tell how infinitely I shall hold myself your
debtor," lialph went on; "and, if you succeed,
there is a fortune in it for both of us."
"Nature is certainly a royal paymistress,"
said the other; "but I have told you not to
hope for success. Honestly, I think I shall
fail, but I cannot be content until I have fairly
tested the idea, now that you lave put it into
my head."
"It is a good idea," said Ralph, "I al-
ways knew t1~at. And if we succeed in work-
ing it out-"
"But it will require time," the other in-
terrupted again. "You must remember that.
You must be prepared for labor, for failure,
and for discouragements. No great discov-
ery was ever perfected without all of these."
"I am aware of it," said Ralph, "and if
you give me a grain of. hope, no labor an4
discouragements can daunt me, As for time,
it is all before us-at least, as much of it as
you can spare. I am to be married next
month,'~' said he, laughing a little, "but that
need not interfere with our experiments to
any great extent."
"~ You are to be married next month, are
you?" said Martindale, starting. "So soon
as that?"
"There is no need for delay," answered

Ralph. "I have no fancy for a long engage.
ment. Besides, in this instance, there would
be no sense in it. Neither Nina nor I have
any thing for which to wait."
"Very true," said Martindale, absently.
He said nothing more, and, having now
paced the entire length of the terrace, they
descended a flight of stone steps which led
down into the garden-a dim, mysterious re-
gion, full of white paths, the dark outlines
of shrubs, trim, old-fashioned borders, and
many sweet-smelling flowers, filling the sum-
mer night with incense. "What a charming
place!" Martindale exclaimed.
"I cannot imagine what has become of
Nina," said Ralph, peering about through the
shaded
"Who is that?" asked his companion, as
a white figure slowly moved across the path,
some distance ahead of them, and vanished
behind a hedge.
"I did not see," said Ralph. "Was it
Nina'? Which way did she go?'~
The other answered by indicating the di-
rection, and, when they reached the intersect-
ing path along which the figure had passed,
they turned and followed it.
But they found no sign of the girl whom
they were seeking. "She must have gone
back to the house," Ralph said, after a while,
taking out his cigar-case, and offering it to
his companion. "There is no need that we
should go," he added. "It is cooler out
here."
Martindale, however, had not come into
the garden to smoke a cigar, and talk chemi-
cal "shop." He declined the first by a gest-
ure, and was on the point of cutting short
the latter by saying that he, too, would return
to the house, when a turn of the path sud-
denly brought them in sight of a building
the outlines of which cut sharply against the
purple, starry sky.
"What is this?" he asked, carelessly.
"It is an old-fashioned summer-house,"
Ralph answered. "You see every thing here
is old-fashioned. This is one of the pavil-
ionS in which our grandmothers used to take
a sociable dish of coffee. It is not very orna-
mental when you see it in daylight; but, for
the sake of old association, my father has let
it stay. It leaks, and the roof gave symptoms
of falling in, the last I heard of it, however."
"It is not ugly," said a quiet voice, which
startled them both as it spoke out of the


NINA'S ATONEMENT,                1

10                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.

shadow of the building they had now ap-
proached. "It is so prettily covered, with
ivy, rut out your hand, Mr. Martindale, and
you can feel the leaves."
"Is it you, Nina-or a fairy?" Ralph
said, putting out his hand and touching the
white figure which they now discerned, sitting
on a flight of steps that led from the door
of the summer-house to the ground.
"Are fairies ever so large?" asked Nina,
laughing, and she rose as she spoke. Despite
the discrepancy of size, both the young men
thought that there was something elfin-like
in the graceful, swaying figure, as it emerged
from the deeper shadows into the soft star.
light. "If the summer-house is old-fash-
ioned, it is very pleasant," she went on, turn-
ing to Martiadale. "I come and sit in here
~Cteu. flee I it is a regular house."
She mounted the steps and pushed open a
door, as she spoke. Martindele followed her,
and, being a smoker, soon found a match in
his pocket, with which he struck a light. By
this short-lived illumination he saw that they
were in a pavilion somewhat on the Dutch
model-a "regular house," as Nina had said~
with two doors and two casements, also a
table and chair bearing token to recent oc-
cupation. "One could be very comfortable
here," he said, reflectively. Then, as the
match went out, leaving them in darkness, he
turned to Ralph.
"Wyverne," he said, "I wonder you have
never lMdo lids into a laboratory. It is true
it is not so convenient as your room in the
house, - but you would be more at ease in
your experiments; and when such things as
explosions occur, nobody's nerves need be
jarred."
"More at ease in his experiments I" said
Nina, quickly, before Ralph could speak.
"But we are done with all such tiresome
things as those. Ralph is not going to worry
over chemistry itny more, since you have told
him that his idea is impracticable-are you,
Ralph?"
"I am afraid I must say yes, Ninetta,"
answered Ralph, with a laugh, half pleased,
half ashamed. "Martindale has retracted his
severe judgment on my poor idea-at least,
he thinks there is' a chance for it, and of
course I am anxious that he should put this
chance to the test,"
"A chance for it I" repeated Nina, and
there was a sudden jarring quiver in her voice.

"I'ray when did Mr. Martindale discover
this fact?" she asked, after a moment. "You
certainly told me before dinner-"
"I remember what I told you before din-
ner," said Ralph, "but since we came out of
the house, Martindale has told me that he was
too hasty, and that there may be some hope
for me after all."
He spoke lightly, as if he were more
amused than concerned by ler possible vexa-
tion-but he was not exactly prepared for the
answer that came.
"Mr. Martindale seems to know his own
mind very little," said Nina, coldly. "Of
course the experiments and every thing con-
nected with them are your own affair, Ralph;
but I confess that, if I were in your place, I
should feel very little confidence in the opin-
ion of n person who contradicts himself in
the most positive manner within the space of
a few hours."
"You don't understand, Nina," said Ralph.
He was astonished, and for the moment al-
most angry. He was well aware that his ex-
periments did not please this arbitrary young
princess, but he had not expected that her
resentment would extend to one whose only
fault had been that of encouraging him.
"You don't understand," he repeated. "Mar.-
tindale has thought the matter over, and,
on consideration, changed his mind far enough
to think that the idea may be worth testing.
That is all."
"I thought that changing one's mind was
a frivolous thing only fit for women," said
Nina. "Are chemists subject to it also?"
"It is like discontent, inasmuch as we
are all subject to it more or less, I fancy,"
said Martindale, quietly.
Then there w.'is a pause. They were stand-
ing in darkness, for the faint glimmer which
the stars sent through the casements was
only sufficient to show the vague outline of
Nina's white dress. Voices have a certain
intensified meaning at such a time. When
our observation is not distracted by any play
of feature or expression of glance, we appre-
ciate the wonderful organ of human speech
as it deserves; our ears seem more finely
strung, our attention is more concentrated,
and catch many subtle inflections which, in
the light of day, escape our notice. Even
when Martindale spoke after a minute to
Ralph, his voice had still a cadence of signifi-
cance under its commonplace words.

"The experiments will only require
rifling outlay of time and labor," he said
"and I cannot help thinking that this pan]
ion is excellently adapted to our purpose ai
a laboratory. I should not imagine tha
many repairs were needed, and the chemical
appar'atus can easily be removed."
"It is a capital idea," said Ralph. "1
wonder I never thought of it before. Thai
room I have in the house is very inconvenient,
As you say, few repairs are needed her&amp;
will send for Jackson to-morrow, and let hhz
look at it. Nine, do these doors latch?
must ride over to Elkbridge for some locks."
"Is it the transmutation of metals that
you have in hand ?" asked Nina, in her scorn-
ful voice. "If not, I don't think you need
guard your treasures so vigilantly. Nobody
is likely to steal them."
"But somebody might be injured by
them," said Ralph, gravely. "Many of my
chemicals are deadly poisons. It is always
safest to guard against accidents."
"You may at least be sure that I shall
never trouble them," said she, turning away
and walking toward the door.
The movement was so abrupt, that the
two young men hesitated n ~nornent whether
or not to follow,
"We have seen all that can be seen in
such a light as this-don't you think we'd bet-
ter go?" said Ralph, after a second, in a tone
of carelessness a trifle studied.
"I think I'll explore the garden a little
further," the other answered. "May I trou-
ble you for the cigar you offered a while ago?
TI)anks! make my excuses to your cousin, if
any excuses are necessary. If I am back in
the drawing-room within an hour, it will be
time enough to say good-night, will it not?"
"Quito time enough," Ralph replied.
lie said nothing more, and Martindale-
having lighted his cigar-marched out of the
pavilion by a door opposite that through
which Miss DaIzell had disappeared.
That young lady was strolling slowly along
a path which led toward the house, when her
cousin overtook her. She was surprised to
see him alone, and, before she remembered
the superior dignity of silence, had asked,
"Where is Mr. Martindale?"
"He has gone off to smoke a cigar," Ralph
answered. "I suppose he thought it the best
way of relieving you of his society I really
think, Nina," this mildest of future husbands

a ventured to add, "that you might treat a man
, who is at once my friend an6 my guest a little
more courteously."
a "Have I treated Mr. Martindale with any
t want of courtesy?" asked Nina, haughtily.
1 She was not accustomed to being taken to
task by anybody, but least of all by Ralph.
"You have certainly treated him with
very great want of courtesy," Wyverne an-
swered, firmly. "You were absolutely rude
in what you said a little while ago-and all
because the poor fellow has encouraged me
in the chemical pursuits for which you have
such an aversion l"
"You are mistaken," said Nina. She did
Dot speak angrily as he had expected, but
quite gravely. "You are mistaken," she re-
peated, after a moment. "If I have been rude
to Mr. Martindale, it was not because he has
encouraged you in your chemical pursuits,
but because I do not think he is sincere in
doing so 1 1 do not think that he has any
better opinion of your idea now than he had
before dinner."
"But what possible reason have you for
thinking such a thing?" asked Ralph, sur-
prised and displeased.
"I can scarcely tell you," said she, stop.
ping short and looking at him~ "I know
you think I am prejudiced," she added, "but
I had an instinct the moment I looked at him
that he was not to be trusted. Ralph "-she
put out her hand suddenly and laid it on his
arm-" make your experiments yourself, and I
will never say a word about them again--
never I But don't give this man an excuse
for staying an hour longer than you can help,
at Wyverne House 1"
"Nina, you astonish me I" said Ralph--
which was certainly true. "I had no idea
you could be so prejudiced and so unjust I
How can you fancy that you, who have known.
Martindale only a few hours, can possibly
judge of his character better than I who have
known him for years?"
"I don't fancy it," said Nina. "I know
nothing about his character-I don't care to
know any thing. I only feel that he is not to
be trusted, and I wish you would Aend him
away.~~
"Send him away I Send away a man who
is my guest, because you have an idea that
he is not to be trusted 1" said Ralph, quite
aghast. "Nina, are you crazy, to ask such a
thing?"

11

10


NINA'S ATONEMENT.                    13

12                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.

"No, I sin not crazy, but you will be sor-
ry ir you do not heed mel" said Nina, with a
sudden, passionate meaning in her voice which
made her cousin fear that she really was dis-.
traught. "I am sure of that, Ralph. You
will be sorry if' you do not heed me I"
"Why should I be sorry?" demanded
Ralph. "Such prejudice is not only absurd,
but really beneath you, Nina. Can you not
see that there is no reason in it? No man is
deceitful without a motive. Now, what mo-
tive could Martindale possibly have for de-
ceiving me about my idea?"
"Do you always distrust an effect when
you don't know the cause of it?" asked~
Nina.
"When an effect is alleged, for which
there is no adequate cause, I doubt its exist-
ence assuredly," he answered.
She shrugged her shoulders, and, takingher
hand from his arm, gathered up the folds of her
muslin dress, which she had suffered to fall
unheeded on the dewy path.
"It is no affair of mine," she said. "Of
course yOu will do as you please; but I have
warned you. You may be sorry yet that you
have not heeded my warning, foolish as you
think it. I distrust the man and every thing
about him," she went on, with a certain re-
pressed vehemence. "Ralph, you may think
me absurdly superstitious, but when he first
turned to you and spoke of converting the
summer-house into a laboratory, something
in hIs manner, in his tone-I c~snnot tell you
what it was-made that sudden cold thrill
come over me which people are said to feel
when standing on the place where they will
die,"
"I do, indeed, think that you are absurd-
ly superstitious," said Ralph, trying to speak
lightly, for even by the dim light of the stars
he saw that she was shivering violently;
"but I think the best remedy will be to go
into the house and try to forget all this. It
is thorough nonsense, and you will like Mar-
tindale as much as I do when you come to
know him. I am sure of that 1"
"Are you?" said Nina. She did not
speak sarcastically, as she had done in the
morning, but half dreamily. Then she turned,
without saying sny thing more, and walked
with him to the house.
The next day Ralph went eagerly to work
with the repairs necessary for converting the
garden pavilion into a laboratory. Before

breakfast he had sent for the best carpenter
on the plantation, and held a consultation
with him in front of the edifice in question-
a consultation which greatly excited the sur-
prise of Mr. Wyverne, who observed it while
he was dressing, and, as soon as he was in a
condition to emerge from his chamber, sallied
down into the garden to demand an explana-
tion from his son. To say that he was dis-
gusted with the explanati6n, would be to say
very little. He did not express this disgust
to any great extent, however, because he was
a reasonable man, in the first place, and a
man of few words, in the second. Ralph was
old enough to know what he was about, and,
if he had a fancy to make a fool of hims~lf~ it
was nobody's business but his own. That
was Mr. Wyverne's view of the matter. As
for Ralph, he had not expected any encour-
agement; so the lack of it did not depress
him. Nothing but good-natured tolerance,
largely flavored with ridicule, had ever been
given by the domestic world to his scientific
experiments; and he looked for nothing else.
Sympathy and encouragement would have
surprised him as much as any attempt at
arbitrary interference. Mr. Wyverne gave a
long whistle when he heard for what purpose
the summer-house was to he repaired. "I
hope you will finish the business in two
days," he said. "I can't spare Jackson
longer. After all, perhaps it is a good idea.
If you blow this up, it will be no great loss."
Blowing up was, in the minds of the family at
Wyverne, a necessary result of all chemical
investigation.
It was more than two days, however, be-
fore the necessary repairs to the summer-
house were finished, or before Jackson was
allowed to return to the neglected plantation.
work over which Mr. Wyverne chafed. Ralph
might have chafed himself, if it had been any
thing but his own crotchet which delayed the
completion of cedain desirable and more im-
portant buildings; but just now the chemist
had a decided advantage over the planter,
and he could think of nothing but his ex-
periments. There was, of course, more to be
done to the pavilion than he had imagined;
and, since he had what Jackson called "his
own notion" about every thing, a zealous
superintendency was necessary, for, like most
people, he had learned to his cost that his
own notion was very apt to be disregarded
unless he was present to enforce it. It fol-

lowed that he saw very little of anybody bui
the carpenters during these days. Not thai
this fact mattered very much. The different
members of the household went their accus
tomed ways, and Martindale-who came noii
and then with a cigar to look on and suggest
an alteration or improvement-did not sceix
to be suffering from the acute boredom whieb
his friend anticipated for him. In truth,
Ralph had made an appeal to Nina that some-
what averted this terrible malady from its
threatened subject.
"Do be a good girl and entertain Martin.
dale while I am about this work," he said.
"I shall really take it as a personal favor if
you will. What is to become of the poor
fellow I don't know, he is so little used to
such a vegetating life as the one we lead."
"I will do my best for Mr. Martindale's
entertainment, since you desire it," Nina an.
swerved, with a reluctance upon which it would
have been difficult for any one-perhaps even
for herself-to decide whether or not it was
genuine. "But I don't like him, and I really
wonder it never occurred to you that other
people besides Mr. Martindale might findour
life a vegetation."
"Ralph says that I am to entertain you
and keep you from being bored to death,"
she said to Martindale, an hour or two later.
"I wish you would tell me how to do it. I
never had a traveled fine gentleman on my
hands before, and the novelty threatens to be
overwhelming."
"It you consider me a traveled fine gen-
tleman," answered Martindaic, "it proves
conclusively that you have never known a
Simon-pure of that species. lam the farthest
in the world from deserving such a reproach,
or such a distinction-as you choose to con-
sider it-and I am the most easily.entertained
person in the world, besides. But if I were
if ~ geant as possible, it would be strange
could not loiter away a few days at this
delightful old place, without incurring the
penalty of ennui. I feel like a traveler who
has found an enchanted castle and an en.
chanted princess," he added, smiling.
"Do you?" said Nina-and she smiled
also. It was not disagreeable to be lik-
ened to an enchanted princess, and a thrill
of that pleasurable excitement which she
had felt when they were riding together
through the summer woods came over her.
At such moments, the instinct of distrust
2

which she felt against Martindale-it never
amounted to dislike, though it sometimes
amounted to repulsion-lost its force. She
saw only a handsome man, full of theje ne
80i8 quoi of society, who looked at her with
admiration, and spoke to her with compel.
monte-a man who seemed to bring into her.
life a breath of that world for which all her
eager fancy, all her overflowing, sensuous vi.
* tality longed.
"But the knights who found enchanted
castles usually had rather a hard time of it,
* had they not?" she said. "I am afraid you
have chosen your comparison unfortunately-
which is too bad, when you meant to be com-
plimentary."
"They found the princess, however," he
said," and that made amends for all else.
Dragons, giants, lions, tyrants - all were
child's play when compared with that re-
ward."
"Princesses must have been worth a
good deal in those days," said Nina, de-
murely.
"Not more than in these," answered Mar-
tindale, readily. "The trouble now, as then,
only is-to find them."
"One might say the same of dragons and
unicorns," responded Miss Daizell.
"Dragons and unicorns were mythical;
princesses were not," said Martindale, grave-
ly. "They exist now, as they existed then-
and one finds them sometimes. If I were
fortunate enough to do so," he went on, "I
should tell the fair captive that, according to
all rules of romance and chivalry, the dis-
coverer should also be the deliverer."
"Allow me to remind you of Mrs. Glass's
immortal recipe for dressing a hare," said Ni-
na. "First find your princess, then decide
what you will say to her. Not but that itjs
easy enough to predicate beforehand what
that would be," she ended, with a cool shrug
of the shoulders.
"Is it?" said he, smiling'.. "Tell me,.
then, what it would be? I see you are well
acquainted with the ways of knights and
princesses."
"Knights are very much like m&amp;i nowa~
days, I fancy," she answered. "They paid a.
great many pretty compliments to the prih.
cesses, who, despite the fact of their exalted
rank, resembled other foolish country maidens,
and, perhaps, were silly enough to believe
them. Then, when the charm of novelty wan


14                     NINA'S ATONEMENT.                                                     NINA'S ATONEMENT.                    15

gone from these fair ladies, no more pretty
speeches came, the knights, as a rule, found
the enchanted castles very dull,' ordered their
horses and rode away, to repeat the amuse-
ment, 'with variations,' as they do in music,
at the next ckdfeau."
"But you forget that seine women never
lose the charm of novelty," said he. "Some
of them are like the chameleon, and change
while a man gazes. You remember how it
was written of one woman that 'age could
not wither nor custom stale her infinite va-
riety.'"
"There was never but one 'serpent of
old Nile,' however," said Nina, shaking her
head.
On the whole, it was not remarkable that
Mr. Martindale bore with edifying philosophy
the delay about the laboratory. It was cer-
tainly more agreeable to loiter with Nina in
the drawing-room or garden through the
long, golden hours of a June day, than to
spend the same hours in abstruse calculations
and doubtful experiments, bending over chem-
ical apparatus and chemical books. Ralph
might have spared his anxiety about his
friend, if he had only known how very well
that gentleman was entertainedd."
Meanwhile Nina, unconsciously to herself;
began to experience something of that subtle
intoxication which the fumes of flattery soon
produce on all save the steadiest brain. This
was not remarkable, since circumstances
daily threw her into closer intercourse with
Martindale, and the repulsion which she had
at first felt for him gradually changed into an
attraction in which gratified vanity played no
inconsiderable part. Besides vanity, how-
ever, there was also the freshness of novelty,
the glow of excitement, and that thrill of
conscious power which, to many women,
makes the chief fascination of that danger-
ous pastime which the world has agreed to
call flirtation. It was unfortunate that there
was no one to utter a warning, or extend are-
~traint over the girl. Ralph was busy with
his pavilion, and thought much more of his
chemical researches than of his betrothed.
Mrs. Wyverne was essentially a house-keeping
nonentity; Mr. Wyverne never regarded the
matter at all. So, Nina went her own way,
and rode, or walked, or talked with the hand-
some stranger without a word of rebuke, or
an attempt at interference. It was after one
of these rides-which had been extended far

into the lovely June woods, under the twilight
June stars-that, having come home and laid
aside her habit, she stood before her mirror
looking with critical intentness at the exqui-
site face, illumined with light and vivid with
color, which gazed back at her out of the
shadowy depths of the glass. As she re-
garded it, a bright smile, half of triumph,
half of defiance, curled her scarlet lip.
"How pretty I am! "die said "It is no
wonder that he thinks it pleasant to amuse
himself with me. But will he think it pleas-
ant if I turn the tables and amuse myself
with kim? It is only a game of skill on both
sides, and promises me a little of that zest
and spice which my life lacks so horribly-a
little taste of that power which is said to be
the sweetest draught in the world! Men of
this class are not troubled with hearts to lose
or break, and Ralph would not be jealous if
I flirted with everybody in the world! What
is it Thekla says?-
"' I have lived and loved, but that was to-day;
Make ready my grave-clothes to-morrow.'
Only I don't mean to love, whatever else I
may do, and it is not my grave-clothes, but my
wedding-dress, which is to be made ready to-
morrow"
-4--
CHAPTER III.
NorwiTnsrxinnNu other and brighter at-
tractions, when the pavilion was at last fin-
ished and all the chemical apparatus removed
thither from the attic laboratory, Martindale
betook himself to the experiments with ~n
energy which pleased Ralph exceedingly, and
astonished? Nina not a little. The latter had
so unhesitatingly made up her mind that the
young chemist's change of opinion with re-
gard to the "idea" of her cousin, was a
piece of interested hypocrisy for the better
prosecution of a flirtation with herself; that
she was not only surprised, but very much
piqued, by the prompt desertion of her stand-
ard, which took place as soon as the labora-
tory was in good working order. What did
it mean? she asked, a little indignantly. Had
she indeed overrated her consequence so
greatly as to fancy that she was the chief at-
traction that detained Martindale at Wy-
verne, when she was, in truth, only the
amusement - the plaything - of his idle
hours? It was in answering this question

that Nina's natural shrewdness first failed to
come to the aid of her inexperience. A duller
woman, who knew the world, would have un-
derstood Martindale's tactics: this bright,
clever girl, witii the disadvantage of not
knowing the world, fell into his trap at once.
In the first place, she found the days in-
tolerably dull and tame, without the flavor of
excitement, the incense of flattery which for
some time had unceasingly surrounded her; in
in the second place, the strong instinct of con-
quest, the strong desire to win and wield power,
which makes men conquerors, and women
coquettes, sprang up like a sudden flame,
fanned by the weary monotony, the yearning
discontent of her life. Martindale's neglect
stung her, not so much because her heart or
her fancy were interested in him, as because
her vanity missed the homage upon which it
had fed, and her life the excitement of that
"fair game of skill" upon which she had so
willingly entered. Being stung, she turned,
like every other creature of which we know,
in wrath and resolution. "If he has amused
himself, with me, I will do something more
than amuse myself with him!" she said. "If
he has made a plaything of me, I will make
something more than a plaything of him.
Can I do it, I wonder? "-and she laughed a
little, arching her white neck proudly; "at
least it will he worth while to try-to test my
power-to learn, once for all, if I was made
for this domestic treadmill, or if I could have
been something else had Fate been kind
enough to give me another life!"
Yet, if Nina , had been asked to define
what her "something else" implied, it is not
probable that she would have found it very
easy to do, though an indefinite vision of a
life made up of unlimited conquests, of per-
petual homage, of the power for which every
instinct of her nature yearned, floated before
her eyes. Left to herself; it is likely enough
that the girl would have dreamed these fan-
cies, but the enchanter who had made them
to such wild life was Martindale. In word,
and look, and tone, ha had said: "You, who
are buried here, were born for other things,
and have only to enter the world to make a
sensation such as few women of your genera-
tion are able to achieve!" Nina had langlied
and disclaimed the flattery; but while she
disclaimed she had believed. Itwould have
been strange, indeed, if one so young, so igno-
rant, yet so conscious of her own rare beauty,

and her own keen wits, had not believed a
thing so pleasant to human self-esteem. If in-
experience makes us timid, it also makes us pre-
sumptuous. It is not until we have measured
ourselves with others-hand to hand and foot
to foot-in the great arena of the world, that
we learn the true proportions of our own
statues.
Meanwhile Martindale, who spent most of
his days and half~f his nights in the labo-
ratory, suggested to Ralph that certain new
inventions in apparatus, together with certain
new scientific books, were imperatively needed.
"You are behind the day, my dear fellow,"
he said; "every month chronicles an advance
in chemistry. It will never do to shut your
mind up, and imagine that what you kaae
learned is sufficient. In this science, above
all sciences, you must keep yourself en rap-
po~l with the progress of the hour, if you do
not want to 'be left hopelessly behind."
Ralph, replying meekly that he was aware of
this fact, and that he had endeavored, as far
as lay in his power, to keep himself en rap.
p.~'t with the progress of the hour, at once
made a memorandum of the desired apparatus
and necessary books, for which he promised
to send an order by that day's mail.
Returning to the house for this purpose,
he told Nina triumphantly that he had never
seen anybody go into any thing with more
zest than Martindale had gone into the ex-
periments. "What a thing it is to have a
scientific turn!" he said. "The fellow abso-
lutely bends over his crucibles as' if be were
in love with them! And what a thing it is
to have a scientific education, too! I feel as
if I were the most ignorant dabbler in the
world, when I stand and watch him at work."
"Chemistry must be very interesting,"
said Nina, musingly. A bright thought sud-
denly occurrcdto her. She felt more than
ordinarily listless that morning, and since the
mountain would not come to Mohammed, why~
should not Mohammed go to the mountain,
even though it kad taken up its' abode in a
laboratory 1' "I should like to see some of
Mr. Martindale's experiments," she said, care-
lessly. "Do you think he would nijud if I
went to the laboratory for that purpose?"
"I am sure he would be very glad to see
you, and explain every thing you wanted t&amp;
know," answered honest, unsuspicious Ralph,
delighted with this first token of interest in
his beloved purs~sit. "If you really e&amp;re' to


16                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.

go, I will take you down as soon as I have fin-
ished my letter."
But this was not exactly what Nina wanted.
"I thought you promised uncle to go to Elk-
bridge on business this morning?" she said.
"By Jove, so I did 1" answered Ralph.
"Thank you for reminding me of it. I'll
order my horse in a minute, but, while he is
being saddled, I can walk with you to the
laboratory, and Martindale can give you a
chemical lecture at his leisure. If you would
only believe it, Nina, there is not in the world
a more fascinating study than that of chem-
istry."
"I can readily believe it," answered Nina,
a little dryly.
She left the room as she said this, and
went up-stairs. But when Ralph, having fin-
ished his letter and ordered his horse, sent a
messenger to announce that he was ready to
go to the pavilion, she did not keep him wait-
ing, as he had feared she would. On the con-
trary, her light step on the broad, shallow
staircase, made him turn from the hall-door,
where he was standing, before he had im-
agined that his message would have reached
her.
"Why, Nina, you have changed your
dress!" he said, even his unobservant eye
being struck by the heightening effect which
a cloud of transparent lawn, in tint like a
blush-rose, produced on her beauty. "It
is amazingly becoming; but I wonder you
put on any thing so pretty when you are go-
ing down to the laboratory. If some of the
chemicals should drop on it__"
"tie you make a rule of dropping chem-
icals on people's dresses 2" asked Nina, as
she drew on her gloves and took her parasol
from the hall-table. "Not that it matters
very much if you do. However becoming
pink muslin may be, it is, fortunately, not ex-
pensive. I changed my dress because the
other had a fruit-stain on it."
This was true. Microscopic observation
might have detected a small fruit-stain on the
skirt of the dress which had been thrown
aside; but Nina did not add, that out of her
whole wardrobe she had carefully selected the
one she wore as the most becoming, and that
when she passed the strings of her garden-hat
over the rich masses of her hair, she had felt
eminently satisfied with the result of her
choice,
What Martindale thought when, roused

NINA'S ATONEMENT.

out of his study of a chemical manual by the
unexpected sound of voices, he turned to see
this exquisite vision framed in the open door
of the pavilion, with green boughs drooping
slantwise behind, and a vista of the garden
beyond, it would be hard to say. For a mm-
nte he did not utter a word. He only caught
his breath quickly-startled out of his usual
cool self-possession by the glowing beauty of
the face which looked at him. For an in-
stant he wondered if he had ever before real-
ized Nina's exceeding loveliness-a loveliness
that might have driven an artist to despair,
since the tints were never mixed on palette or
laid on canvas that could have copied the
abounding freshness and glory of her color-
ing-the satin softness and rose brilliance
of her skin, the cleft scarlet of her lips, the
bronze sheen of her hair, or the liquid lustre
of her eyes. It was Ralph's voice that re-
called his self-possession as the cousins ad-
vanced.
"I have brought Nina down to see some
chemical experiments, Martindale," he said.
"I suppose you are not too busy to show her
a few things-simple things, you know. I
would do it myself, only I am obliged to ride
over to Elkbridge this morning.
"I shall be very glad to show Miss Dal-
zell any thing that will interest her," Martin-
dale answered. "But I thought you did not
like chemistry," be added, looking at Nina
and speaking almost abruptly.
"I do not," she answered, carelessly, con-
scious of feeling a little provoked by his tone.
"I am only idle this morning, and idleness
begets curiosity-even in things which do
not usually interest one. I should be sorry
to disturb your industry, however, Mr. Mar-
tindale. Your studies seem so very abstruse"
-her half-mocking gaze swept over the open
pages of the book he had laid down-4' that
it would be a pity to interrupt them. Ralph
can spare a little time for my instruction, can-
not you, Ralph? No doubt my curiosity will
be satisfied with a very small amount of learn-
ing. By way of beginning, what is this?"
and, extending her hand, she touched with
one finger part of the apparatus on ~ table
near by.
"That is a glass retort," answered Ralph,
delighted to play school-master. "This gas-
lamp is what we call a Bunsen's burner; and
if you will observe, Nina, you will see that
the action of heat is evolving a gas from the

chemical substances in the retort which the
receiver here is placed to collect, and-"
"Yes, I see all about it," said Nina; "but
suppose I take the stopper from the retort,
will any thing occur?"
"You must not think of such a thing,"
said Martindale, coming forward, and, to her
surprise, quickly removing her hand from the
stopper, on which it rested. "The gas which
is being evolved here is the most subtle and
dangerous known to chemistry. You had bet-
ter come away, Miss DaIzell. I will show you
some of the ordinary experiments "
"But I don't want to see any ordinary ex-
periments)" said Nina, the perverse. "I want
to hear about this subtle and dangerous gas.
What is the name of it? Ralph, I did not
know that you were in the habit of experi-
menting with such things."
"This is x~ot one of my experiments," said
Ralph. "Martindale is after a craze of his
own, and has been experimenting in the cyan-
ogen compounds for some time.-It is hydro-
cyanic acid you are preparing now, is it not?"
he added, looking at his friend.
"Exactly that," answered Martindale, "so
you see you must bring Miss Dalzell away.-
You have no idea how dangerous this is," he
went on, turning to Nina. "One drop of the
pure substance is sufficient to kill, and a
chemist has always to be very careful in pre-
paring it, since the vapor, even in small quan-
tities, will produce fatal results."
"How terrible!" said Nina, and, looking
at him, her rose-leaf color faded a little.
"You should not tamper with such dreadful
things," she said. "What if you killed your-
self?"
"It would not matter very much if I did,"
he answered, carelessly. "My life is not of'
much importance-not like Ralph's there, for
instance. You may be sure I don't involve
Aim in any of my dangerous experiments."
"Very considerate of him, isn't it?" said
Ralph, laughing. "But you may rest satisfied
that he knows what he is about, and is not
likely to poison himself. Now I must really
go, for I am sure my horse is waiting. Mar-
tindale, it would be a very pretty experiment
to show her about water, you know-how ox-
ygen and hydrogen make it, and all that sort
of thing.-You've no idea how interesting it
is, Nina, to see gas turned into water before
your eyes."
Although Nina made no reply, he left the 1

17

pavilion quite light-hearted. It was so cheer-
ing to think that she was really beginning to
take an interest in chemistry at last! It
would be so pleasant, he thought-for Ralph
was domestic even in his love of science-to
possess a wife who would share his entfiusi-
asm to the extent of a gentle feminine sym-
pathy, who would take an interest in his cx-
perlinents, and understand intelligently what
he was doing, or what he wished to do! It
was true that common-sense, liberally aided
by experience, might have assured him how
little Nina was likely to be metamorphosed
into such a wife; but men like Wyverne have
an abounding faith in the power of matri-
mony to work any and every change in the
habits, tastes, and disposition of a woman.
As he mounted his horse and rode away in
the golden sunlight, it did not occur to him
that he had left behind, and in close proximi-
ty, materials more inflammable than any of
his gases; that the passion of a man, and the
fancy of a woman, may sometimes form a
combination more dangerous than any chemi-
cal result. It is difficult to say whether it
was well or ill for him that he realized noth-
ing of this. If Nina had been as old as his
mother, and as ugly as Hecate, he could not
have felt less uneasiness concerning her. If
Martindale had been Sir Galahad in person,
he could not have trusted him more implicitly.
It is a bitter lesson, though a necessary one,
when the world first teaches us that such
trust is rarely, if ever, wisely given-but it
was a lesson of which Ralph Wyverne had
not yet learned the initial letter.
In the pavilion, after he left it, silence
reigned for a minute. For the first time in
her life a sudden, strange shyness came over
Nina; for the first time, also, she felt a dis-
trust of herself and of her usually ready
tongue, which half inclined her to wish her-
self away. Martindale's manner of meeting
her had been so different from any thing
which she anticipated that it had discom-
posed and thrown her back on herself in a
most provoking manner. She had expected
that he would be radiant with pleasure, and
full of the ease and brightness which she
liked; on the contrary, he was stiff, reserved,
and almost rude. True, ~he was conscious
that be regarded her with an admiration more
eloquent than many words; but, feeling the
blood deepening in her fair cheeks under his
gaze, she chose to consider even this a fresh

4,


18                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.                                                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.                   19

cause of offense, and so turned away petulant-
ly toward the door.
"Since Ralph has gone, I will not detain
you any longer," she said. "Of course, you
must be anxious to return to your, b~oks and
gases."
She looked so mutine and lovely in hei~
vexation, that Martindale could with diffi-
culty repress a smile. He understood so well
why she had come, and the disappointment in
which she was going, that he felt tempted to
amuse himself by adding a little more fuel to
the flame of her petulance before he indemni-
fied himself; in his own fashion, for the self-
denial of the last few days. Even to look at
her was such a pjeasure, to a man who wor-
shiped beauty as this student of chemistry
did, that he wanted to make the most of her
changing moods; to watch the sea-shell color
vary, to note every play of the flexible lips,
and to meet the full-orbed glow of the eyes
before he won her back-as he knew a word
would win her back-to her usual sparkling
self.
"You cannot surely think that you detain
me I" he repeated, in answer to her last
words. "I must beg you to believe that I
am highly honored by your visit. My studies
and experiments can readily wait your pleas-
ure."
"It is not at all necessary that they should
do so," said Nina, vexed afresh, as he knew
that she would be, by the formality of his
words. "My pleasure is to find something
more entertaining than chemistry. I told
Ralph that a very small amount of'knowledge
would gratify my curiosity. It has been quite
gratified."
"But you have not gained any knowledge
at all," said he, laughing. Tben he came for-
ward to her side. "If you go, you must let
me go with you," he said. "Since I have
been demoralized by a glimpse of your face, I
cannot return to the books and gases to which
you so kindly commend me."
The face of which he spoke frowned,
blushed, and smiled, all at once-the peach.
blossom tints glowing into brighter beauty
under his glance. But, for all that, Nina was
not appeased, as her answer showed:
"I am sorry that my face should have de-
moralized you," she said, stiffly. "I can only
make amends by removing it at once. Per-
haps, indeed, I ought to apologize for intrud-
ing at all into such sacred precincts; but I

came to gratify Ralph. He thinks that, be-
fore we are married, I ought to learn a little
chemistry."
"Is that a necessary preparation for mat-
rimony?" asked Martindale. His manner
did not betray the jealous pang at his heart,
but he could not help wondering if she at all
estimated the power of her last words to
change his amused trifling into a sudden res-
olute determination to use to the full this op-
portunity which fate and caprice had given
him.
"Ralph thinks so," she answered, care-
lessly. "He ought to be the best judge,
ought not he?"
"Of what he desires-certainly. But to
desire and to obtain are very different things
in this highly-satisfactory life of ours."
"Not with him," she said. "He has had
every thing that he ever desired-even me,"
she added, shrugging her shoulders-" if I
am worth counting a possession."
"Do you doubt your value?" said her
companion, with a slight laugh. "If you de-
sire to test it, take your life back into your
own hands, and see whether even Ralph's im-
passive calm will not be stirred."
"If I took it back, what should I do with
it?" she asked. There was an accent of the
pathos that is born of hopelessness in her
voice, which was not meant for effect. She
had asked herself the same question before
this, and knew how dreary the answer was.
"Shall I tell you?" said he, quickly, with
a cadence of passionate meaning in his tone.
He would test his power, and know the beet
or worst at once, he thought..
But Nina drew herself up proudly.
"Why should you tell me?" she asked.
"There is no possibility of such an event
coming to pass." Then, with an eagerness
that told its own story of ~elf-reproach, she
added: "It is a good thing to he able to
trust one's life into such faithful keeping as
that of Ralph. I do not think there is a
kinder or truer heart than his in the world."
"Ralph is a very good fellow," said Mar-
tindale, quietly, "but, if he were the best in
the universe, he could never make you hap-
py."
"How can you possibly kuow what would
make inc happy?" she demanded, haughtily,
her color deepening, her eyes expanding with
the glow that he liked to provoke.
"Rather, how can I help knowing?" he

said, with a smile, as his brown eyes met her
own. "Do you remember how you came into
the drawing-room that first day?" he went
on. "It was like a sudden delicious burst of
color, or gleam of sunlight, over a gray land-
scape. Even then-even before you had ut-
tered a word of the discontent which you felt
for your life-I saw how little you belonged
to it, how entirely Nature had fitted you for
other things. Ralph had told me that you
were engaged to him. Instinct told me, as
soon as I looked at your face, that this en-
gagement owed its existence to your own
supreme ignorance of yourself."
"And you have been kind enough to en-
deavor to enlighten that ignorance!" said
she, with not a little bitterness. "I owe you
no thanks for it. You have fed my vanity,
and fanned the discontent of which I was
scarcely conscious before you came, until it
renders my life miserable. And you have
done this-do not fancy that I am ignorant
of it-simply for your own amusement."
"Do you think so?" he said; and a sud-
den thrill in his voice made her start. "If I
have rendered you miserable," he said, draw-
ing nearer, and speaking eagerly, "it has
been that I might in turn render you happy,
that I might rescue you from the death-in-
life to which you are doomed, that I might
give you to the world for which you were
born! Nina, it is useless for me to say that
I love you-you know that already-it only
remains for you to say'whether you will tame-
ly accept the life which has been made for
you, or whether you will make your own life
by coming with me. I have not wealth to
offer you, as Wyverne has, but I have some-
thing which is better still-freedom!"
He uttered the last word in a tone which
was in itself like an electric charge to the girl
who listened. Her whole nature seemed to
leap up in response. Freedom !-freedom to
quaff to its full the elixir of life, of power, of
excitement like that which filled her now!
The wealth of an emperor would have tempted
her less than that single word, than a single
one of the hopes it embodied! Yet it was at
this moment that a dim, struggling sense of
right and wrong came to the girl. Face to
face with the roused earnestness of the man
before her, all her bright, graceful mockery,
her pretty, innate coquetry seemed stricken
from her command. Nothing remained but
the instinctive resistance of one who feels

what is right, and who is tempted within as
well as without toward what is wrong.
"You must not talk to me like this!"
she said, all the bright color ebbing from her
face, her breath coming short and quick. "It
is unkind-it is dishonorable! You have no
right-"
"No right!" interrupted he, scornfully.
"Who asks for a right? Mine rests in my
love for yQu, and my determination to rescue
you! I ask no other. Do you think it mat.
ters to me that you have promised Ralph
Wyverne to marry him? I would walk over
a thousand Ralph Wyvernes if it were a ques-
tion of' winning you at last."
"But it is not a question of that!" said
Nina, his imperious tone rousing a flash of de.
fiance in her. She realized now how unwise
she had been to come, but even if Martindale
would have permitted her to leave him-which
she felt to be doubtful, since he stood direct-
ly in her path-there was a fascination that
kept her motionless. Go! How could she
go? How could she leave this stir of combat,
in which, if there was danger, there was also
the quick breath of excitement, for the dull
house which she knew so well, and her aunt's
platitudes and crochet-work?
"You are right," said Martindale, quietly.
"It is not a question, but a certainty-for 1
will win you, Nina! I have sworn to do it,
and there is no power on earth or in heaven
to make me swerve from my resolution!"
"You cannot win me despite myself," said
Nine, who rather liked the novelty of this
masterful wooing. She looked up and met
the eager, passionate eyes that were bent on
her. The first taste of forbidden fruit was
sweet to Eve, and alas! it has remained sweet
to all of her descendants.
"I will win you even despite yourself! "he
answered, in a tone of confident power. "But
will it need to be despite yourself?" he add-
ed, in a softer voice. "Nina, I know you do
not love Ralph Wyverne; but can you not
love me?"
There was little humility in the question,
but there can be no doubt that humility would
not have served his cause with Nina half so
well as the pride that was almost haughty in
its self-confidence. He saw the lovely eolor
flicker into her face at his last words, the
white throat give a quick, nervous gasp, and
the lids droop over the eyes. Never had she
looked more beautiful, and never had he felt


20                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.                                                      NINA'S ATONEMENT.                   21

more resolved to win her at all hazards-
Even, as he had said, despite herself. Her re-
sistance gave a charm, without which her
very L'eauty wonid have lost half its value in
his eyes.
"Can you not love me, and trust your life
with me, Nina?" he said, taking into hi~ own
the hands which were idly clasped before her,
and watching every flutter of the long, curling
lashes on the rose-tinted cheek. "I can give
you the things for which you long, and love,
besides, such as no other man ever will give
you. Nina, my beautiful darling, will you not
come to me?"
"How can you ask such a question?"
said Nina, almost in a whisper - somehow
her powers of resistance seemed ebbing from
her she was conscious of being borne down
in the strife which she had so deliberately
sought, so arrogantly met-" iou have forgot-
ten Ralph, Icannot do so."
"Nay," he said, with a slight laugh of
triumph, "if you will let mc be your teacher,
you will soon learn to forget Ralph. Nina,
can you not forget him now? Look at me,
sweet one, and let me read the answer in your
eyes.?'
Even when Nina lifted her eyes, she meant
to say, "You are wrong I I can never forget
that my honor is bound to Ralph," but some-
thing in the glance she met, hushed the words.
Every thing suddenly seemed to waver before
her-the green, swaying boughs, the golden,
summer day, the handsome, bending Thee. It
was only when she felt the touch of Martin-
dale's lips on her own, that she realized with
a sudden shock all that she had implied by
her silence.
-4-
CHAPTER lY.
"NINA," said Ralph, tenderly, "I am afraid
there is something the matter with you, dear."
It was several days after the scene in the
laboratory. The cousins were alone in the
drawing-room, which Ralph had entered un-
expectedly in search of a missing glove, and
where he had found Nina all alone, standing
by an open window, gazing out absently over
the flowery terrace 'to the green lawn beyond.
Something listless as well as absent in the
girl's attitude struck him suddenly. It was
strange for Nina-in whom buoyant youth
and health seemed usually overflowing-to
appear listless, and he remembered that he

had thought her looking pale the day before.
Moved by a quick impulse of affectionate con-
cern, he crossed the room, therefore, with the
caressing wc~da recorded above.
But he was not prepared for the startled
look in the eyes which turned on him, nor the
recoiling movement which she made when be
attempted to pass his arm lightly around her.
"Nina!" he said, surprised and pained;
"is any thing the matter? Have I done any
thing to offend you?"
"You 1" said Nina, with a faint laugh.
"When did you ever do any thing to offend
me? I-I am only nervous. I have felt
heavy and languid for a day or two. Perhaps
I need a tonic. Don't people always need a
tonic when they feel languid? Count my
pulse, and see if it is all right."
She extended her delicate wrist, with a
pretty tracery of azure veins showing through
the transparent skin; but, instead of accept-
ing the diversion thus offered, Ralph placed
one hand under her chin, and turned the
exquisite Hebe-face toward the light.
can judge better from your eyes than
from your pulse," he said, gravely. "Look
at me, and let me see what cloud has come
over you."
But this Nina would not do; indeed, she
felt that she could not meet the frank, tender
eyes looking at her, with the gloom of unquiet
deception in her own. The white, sculpto-
resque lids fell heavily; the slender, dark
brows met in an impatient frown.
"Don't, Ralph!" she said, petulantly. "I
cannot endure such a glare! There is noth-
ing the matter with me, except that I am
stupid and dull."
"Why, you were nervous and languid a
minute ago," said Ralph, "and now stupid
and dull-what a sudden list of maladies!
And, for you, of all people! Do you know-.
now that I come to think of it-you have not
seemed quite yourself since that day we went
down to the laboratory? I wonder if you
could have inhaled some of Martindale's poi-
sonous compounds?"
"How absurd!" said Nina; but her smile
was forced, and the vivid color which leaped
to her face might have wakened suspicion in
anybody but Ralph. He, however, blundered
on:
"I must make Martindale come and pre-
scribe for you," said Ralph. "Every chemist
is something of a physician-at jeast to the

extent of knowing the effect of his chemicals.
If you should have chanced to inhale a little
poison, he must administer an antidote as
soon as possible.~~
"Pray, don't be foolish!" said Nina, cold-
ly-the flush on her face had faded as quick-
ly as it came, and nothing remained now but
a faint stain of color 'on either cheek-" I
have inhaled no poison; but, if I had done
so, I would not care to receive an antidote
from Mr. Martindale. Ralph," she said, sud-
denly and passionately, "I asked you to send
that man away when he first came here. It
would have been better-oh, how much better
-if you had heeded me!"
"Has Martindale been doing any thing?"
said Ralph. "1 knew somebody had offended
you, Nina; but 1 am sorry that you have gone
back to your dislike of him."
"I did not say that I had gone back to
my dislike of him," answered Nina, impatient-
ly. "Ralph,. can you not understand that
one can distrust a person without-without
disliking him?"
"No, Icannot understand it," said Ralph,
frankly. "With me, to like and to trust arc
synonymous terms. I could nQt for a mo-
ment entertain any regard for a person whom
I distrusted."
"That is to say, you could not leara to
regard a person whom you distrusted," said
Nina, quickly. "But if you liked - loved,
perhaps-already, could you not continue to
like or love even if-if you had cause to dis-
trust?~~
"I scarcely think so,?' he answered, sim-
ply. "But, thank God, I have never been
tried with a distrust of any one whom I
loved!"
"I wonder how you would bear it," said
she, half absently-gazing away from him out
of the window.
"Badly enough," he answered. "In fact,
I cannot imagine how I would bear it at all.
Nothing could be more horrible-more unen-
durable!" Then, quickly: "Don't let us talk
of such things-they are not for you and me.
We trust each other, do we not?"
"Yes," answered she, quietly-if he had
noticed closely, he would have seen a quick
gasp in her throat-" but neither of us
can tell how unworthy the other may be of
that trust."
"Good Heavens, Nina!" said Ralph. He
was quite confounded by this unexpected re-

ply, and for a minute could only stare at the
speaker. Then, naturally enough, it occurred
to him that such a surprising supposition
must refer to himself. "Something certainly
is the matter," he said, emphatically, "Nina;
will you not tell mc what it is? if 1 have
done any thing to pain or anlioy you-"
"You done any thing!" interrupted Nina,
again. "Ralph, are you mad? You never
did any thing in your life to pain or annoy
me. it is I who have always pained and an-
noyed you, who have been cold and ungrate-
ful, and-and unworthy of every kind and
loving thought that you have ever given mel
If you could forget me," said she, meeting his'
gaze suddenly for the first time, "it might be
the best thing that could befall you."
"Nina, you certainly must be ill!" said
Ralph. "You would never talk such non-
sense if you were not, Why, I never heard
any thing like it! Forget you !-I, who have
never done any thing but love you since you
first came to us! Here I-let me feel your
pulse. You certainly must have a fever."
But, instead of extending her wrist again,
Nina laid her hand on his shoulder, and looked
at him with a steady, wistful air. As she
faced him thus, he began to observe, for the
first time, the deep shadow in her usually
sunny face.
"Ralph," she said, slowly, "do you not
see that I shall never be able to make you
happy? Dear, we are too unlike. One can
do a great deal toward controlling one's self
-at least good people say that we can-but
one cannot create one's self over again on an-
other model, and that is what I should have
to do before I should be able to live your life
as your wife should live it."
"What on earth has put such ideas into
your head?" asked Ralph, alarmed and puz-
zled both at once. "If I am willing to take
you just as you are, without any creating
over again whatever, why should you torment
yourself with scruples and ideas like these?
When you are married and settled, you will
grow to like domestic things better than you
do now-but I only desire that change for
your own comfort. I love you too well as
you are, to see any fault in you."
Nina dropped her hand wearily, and turned
from him again toward the window. "If you
knew me as I am, you would not love me for
an hour," she said. "0 Ralph, if you would
only give me up, and-and let me sink out

21


22                          NINA'S AT
of your lice, you would be so much happi-
er!"
"Nina!" said Ralph, and his voice had a
cadence in it which made her start, thinking
she had betrayed herself. instinctively she
dyew into the shade, as he bent forward that
he might read her face by the full light of the
window. "Am I so dull that II have not
understood you all this time I" he said, with
a strange sort of tension in his tone. "Is it
for yourself you have been pleading, while you
talked of me? You say that I will find no
happiness in our marriage..-Nina, are you
thinking what you will find ?"
She looked up at him half piteously, the
fingers of her right hand seeking the engage-
went-ring which her left hand wore. Now
was the golden moment in which to speak, if
~he meant to speak at all; but face to face
with the opportunity, she shrank back, feel-
ing her inability to use it. For Nina was
not only a born epicurean-a born seeker
and lover of pleasure and delight-but she
was also that which all epicureans essentially
are-a coward. She shrank from any thing
painful, as she might have shrunk from a
cruel blow. Looking into Ralph's face-
it had grown very pale, and, although the eyes
were tender, the mouth was set and almost
stern-her heart died away within her. "I
cannot, I cannot!" she thought. To do her
justice, it was not cowardice alone that
sealed her lips. The eyes, gazing into her
own, seemed to her excited fancy like an em-
bodiment of all the love and care which had
been given to her since the first hour in
which the roof of Wyverne had sheltered
her helpless orphanhood. Were ever parents
kinder or more indulgent than her uncle and
aunt, was ever brother more tender, was ever
lover more devoted, than Ralph? A vision
of her petted, luxurious life rose before the
girl. They had given her every thing which
was theirs to give. It was for her to decide
what should be their reward.
Then even in this foolish and reckless
heart, a mighty impulse of self-abnegating
gratitude rose. "Ralph," she cried, suddenly,
"I was not thinking of myself; I was only
thinking of you! I will do whatever you
wish, dear; but you must remember that-
that I knew how it would be, when I disap.
point you in every thing, and make you
wretched."
"I am not afraid of that, my darling,"

ONEMENT.

NINA'S 2

said Ralph, with a great wave of gladness
coming over his face. He did not exactly
understand Nina, having never known her to
be seized with a fit of humility before-but
a load seemed lifted from him when he found
that this was nil she meant. Only a fear lest
she should make him wretched! He laughed
outright. "My pretty one," be said, with ca-
ressing tenderness, "even to look at you is
enough to bring sunlight and gladness to a
man's heart."
"But I shall not be pretty always," said
~ina. She almost hated her prettiness at
that moment. It was the root of all her
trouble. But for the entrancing bloom of
her skin, the moist scarlet of her lips~ the
liquid lustre of her eyes, Ralph would never
have desired to marry her, Martindale would
never have tarried at Wyverne over fruitless
experiments in chemistry, the discontent and
cager longing which burned within her like a
flame would never have found birth. ~' If I
had been ugly, I should have been domestic,"
she thought, with a momentary yearning for
a sallow skin and dull eyes. "Ugly women
always are domestic-they have no tempta-
tion to be any thing else."
Meanwhile Ralph was saying, with that
air of affectionate solicitude which is so de-
lightful when the affection is returned, but so
terribly irksome when it is not: "My darling,
there is something you must do for me. Did
I not hear mother say that you are going
with her to Elkbridge for some shopping to-
day? Promise me that while you are there
you will call and see Dr. Shelton. I am not
quite easy about you."
"There is nothing the matter with me,"
said Nina-" at least nothing which Dr. Shel-
ton can cure. if I went to see him, it could
only be to ask if he could 'minister to a mind
diseased.' I think my mind must be diseased,
else I should never have been so foolish as I
have been this morning. But I see the car~
riage coming round, and I have not changed
my dress yet. I had almost forgotten that I
was going to Elkbridge with Aunt Essie."
She turned away quickly-glad to escape
from the eyes which had all of love's eager-
ness and something of love's keenness in
them-and, hurrying out of the room, did not
pause until she was safe within the shelter of
her own chamber, a cool, bowery apartment
with a delicious green light from its half-
closed blinds, and a whiff of ottar of roses on

the air. On her knees beside the bed, acros~
which a pretty light silk was lying, Nins
flung herself-but not to pray. Only to bur~
her face in the Marseilles counterpane an
smother the dry, stormy sobs that were slink
lug her whole frame.
"What am I to do? Oh, what am 1 t(
do?" she panted. "It would be a blacked
ingratitude than even I am capable of to leav
them, as lie wishes me to do; and yet-I thinhi
I shall go mad if Ralph talks to me and looks
at me again as he did a little while ago! Te
see the love and trust in his eyes, and to think
how I have betrayed the one and forfeited the
other, is more than I can bear! Oh, what
am I to do? To keep my engagement and
make myself miserable, or to break it and
make him wretched? Yet have I indeed a
liberty of choice?" She sprang to her feet
and began to pace the floor. "Have they not
bought me-these good, kind, tame, stupid
people-and paid my value a hundred times
over?" Her glance traveled from the silk
dress on the bed to a set of pearls-Ralph's
birthday present-on the toilet-table. "Sure-
ly my red-and-white beauty is not worth a
higher price than the lavish indulgence which
these things represent. But freedom !-are
they worthy to be the price of freedom?"
Her hands clasped and unclasped nervously;
her impatient glance swept round the room
as if its walls suffocated her; at that moment
she looked like some wild thing of the forest
pent within a cage. "it is a good thing that
this cannot last long!" she thought, snatch-
ing from her white throat a band of velvet,
which felt as if it was choking her. "It is a
good thing that my wedding-day is only two
weeks distant. Whatever is to be decided,
must be decided soon; whatever is to be
done, must be done before then. What it
will he, Heaven only knows. I know noth-
ing except that I have not courage to be
either wholly true or wholly false. Every
thing would be easier if I were better, or-
worse!"
And little as Nina suspected it, she epit-
omized her whole character in those words.
Every thing would have been easier with her
if she had been either better or worse-if she
had stood upon a higher or lower plane of ac-
tion and feeling. As it was, she succumbed
to a temptation which a nobler nature would
have resisted, while she stood firm where a
more selfish nature would have given way, and

ATONEMENT.                            23
walked over all obstacles to its end. In the
vortex of conflicting circumstance thus cre-
ated, it was she who was rent and torn by the
I struggle she had provoked, and out of which
- came neither victory nor defeat; it was she
who learned that to pause~midway between
good and evil, to strive to reconcile honor
and dishonor, truth and falsehood, is the most
hopeless problem that a human soul can pos-
sibly attempt to solve.
When she came downstairs to accompany
Mrs. Wyverne on the shopping expedition to
Elkbridge, no one would have giwssed from
her glowing cheeks and shining eyes what
had given such bloom to the one, such light
to the other. "I never saw you looking bet-
ter, Nina," said Mrs. Wyverne, as they drove
off. "It must be the color of your dress
which is so becoming-or else the shape of
your hat. We will go to the photograph-gal-
lery while we are in Elkbridge; 1 have been
promising your likeness to my sister for some
time. She is anxious to see what Ralph's fu.
ture wife looks like."
"I hope she will be satisfied with Ralph's
taste," saidNina. "I am not sure of it, how~
ever, for photographs never give an idea of
complexion; and you know, Aunt Essie, my
nose is not straight."
The shopping did not include any very ex-
tensive purchases-for Mrs. Wyverne had too
much regard for fashion to patronize to any
great extent the shopkeepers and dress-zank-
era of a country-town-but a little of that
amusement can readily be spread over a large
amount of time, especially with the aid of a
few visits, and an hour or two in a photo-
graph-gallery. Therefore, it chanced that the
two ladies spent the day in Elkbridge, and
that the sun was sinking when they entered
the gates of Wyverne. "There is nobody at
home," said Nina, glancing along the front of
the house, as they approached. The next in-
stant, however, she started back, for when
they stopped Martindale appeared from some
quarter, and opened the carriage-door.
"You see there is somebody at home,"
said Mrs. Wyverne, with a laugh..-L" Are you
all alone, Mr. Martindale?" she added, as he
assisted her to alight. "We were just say-
ing that the house looked entirely deserted."
"It has been deserted by every one but
mc since mid-day," answered Martindale. " I
am to blame foi~ my solitude, however. Ralph
invited me to accompany Mr. Wyverne and


NII{A'S ATONEMENT.                   2

24              NINA'S ATONEMENT.

himself to what he called 'the lower planta-
tion,' but I declined, on the score of exces-
sive laziness and excessive heat. In fact, I
hoped you would be back in time for our
ride," he said, looking at Nina.
"We ~ere detained in Elkbridge," an-
swered she, a little coldly. She was busy
gathering up the parcels scattered over the
seat of the carriage, and did not look at him
or notice his extended hand.
"Never mind about those, Nina," said
Mrs. Wyverne, from the shadow of the por-
tico. ." I will send Ellen out for them. If
you are as tired as I am, you will not care to
bother about any thing of the kind. I am
going to order some iced tea at once. How
refreshing it is to get home after such a day!
-Don't you think it is very warm, Mr. Mar-
tindale?"
But Martindale did not answer-in fact,
he did not hear the question. He was look-
ing at Nina, who at last descended from the
carriage somewhat reluctantly, and without
his assistance. Her delay was its own pun-
ishment, however, for, when she gained the
portico, Mrs. Wyverne had disappeared into
the house, and she found herself alone with
Martindale.
"What is the matter?" he said, quickly,
almost imperiously. "What h~s occurred
that you are so changed? Nina, what is the
meaning of this?"
"Am I changed?" asked Nina. She
gave a short laugh. "If you will come into
the drawing-room, I will tell you the meaning
of it-perhaps it is better over at once."
She turned and led the way across the
large, cool hail into the drawing-room, full
just then of a wonderful sunset glow; which
streamed through the wide western windows.
As she paused in the centre of the floor, and
turned toward Martindale, this glory seemed
to surround her like a luminous atmosphere,
lighting her hair into more than Titianesque
richness, and giving her face a beauty that
he~ never forgot. He almost caught his
breath. At that moment he could think of
nothing but the loveliness which in this very
spot had first fascinated him.
"Nina!" he cried, "if I could only paint
you as you stand there now, what a picture it
would make! My darling, my beautiful dar-
hing, what a sensation you will create in the
world!"
"I shall never go into the world!" said

Nina, bitterly. It was better to get it over
at once, she thought, especially since the old
wild thrill leaped into longing life at his
words. "That was what I came to say," she
went on, facing him with great, steady, lus-
trous eyes. "It must all end. I shall never
go into the world. I shall stay here and
marry Ralph."
She uttered the last words bravely, though
a great choking wave seemed to rise up in
her throat. It was as if her own hand rolled
a stone to the door of her sepulchre. Stay
at Wyverne and marry Ralph! A picture of
what her life would be rose before her as she
uttered the words. The suffocating sense
which had oppressed her in the morning came
back. The dreary monotony of days and
years seemed stretching before her. Looking
at Martindale, she felt a strange mixture of
relief and anger to see that he was smiling.
"Stay here and marry Ralph!" he re-
peated, and her ear caught the vibration of
absolute amusement in his tone. "Is that
all that is the matter? Qarissima! you star-
tled me horribly. I feared-I scarcely knew
what, from your manner. Trust to me, sweet
one, and don't disquiet yourself like this.
Remember that it is too late to talk of ending
any thing now. You have placed your life in
my hands, and I will take care of it."
"I have not placed my life in your bands,"
said Nina. It was impossible to say whether
she felt most strongly repelled or strangely
fascinated by this haughty dictation. "I
was only mad enough to-to forget what I
owe Ralph. But I remember it now. Such
a faith as mine is poor indeed to give him,
but he thinks it something, and I-I cannot
undeceive him. It is better to let him be
happy with an unworthy wife, than to make
him miserable by telling him what I am."
"This is all nonsense," said Martindale,
coolly. "I told you, before I had any reason
whatever to believe you loved me, that I
meant to win you, Nina. Do you seriously
think that now-now that you have assured
me in word, and look, and tone, of your love
-that I will give you up at any bidding under
Heaven?"
"You will have no choice but to give me
up at my own!" said Nina, becoming haughty
in turn.
But he only laughed-laughed as he might
have done at the petulance of a child. "Sweet-
heart," he said, "is it possible you are so

foolish as not to see that you have gone toc
far to turn back? It is natural that you
should feel in this way-I expected it-but it
is childish to imagine that, because you opened
a dam, you can stop a flood. We may alter
circumstances, but we cannot control them.
You are mine. It is too late to talk of mar-
rying Ralph Wyverne now."
"It is not too late for any thing I may
choose to do," said Nina, with a flash of her
old defiance. "I have been a fool, I know,"
she went on, bitterly "I have let you amuse
yourself with me to the top of your bent "-
her lip curled in that self-contempt which, to
a proud nature, is of all things on earth the
hardest to endure-" but I am not quite ready
to let you dictate what my whole life shall
be. Our flirtation, or whatever you may
choose to call it, is at an end."
"Our flirtation ended some time ago,"
said Martindale, quietly; but she caught a
sudden gleam in his eyes as the handsome
brows above them knitted. "Our engage-
ment, however, will not end until you are my
wife."
"I shall never be your wife!" said Nina,
passionately. It was impossible to under-
stand this girL She scarcely understood her-
self-she scarcely knew what she wished, de-
sired, or intended to do. Just then she re-
belled against the power which Martindale
assumed, as she had rebelled against her life
and all the circumstances of it. Ralph's ca-
ressing tenderness came back to her. After
all, she was not sure that she did not prefer a
subject to a maste~'. "I will never be your
wife!" she repeated, with a glow of added
color on her face, a flash of new light in her
eyes.
"Will you not?" said Martindale. He
could have laughed at the foolish coquetry
which fancied that it could play fast and
loose with him, but he was also angry-so
angry, that Nina was startled by the white
sternness which came over his face. "Again
I tell you that this is folly!" he said. "I do
not doubt that you are like all the rest of your
sex-more than ready to make a fool of any
man who chooses to give you his love for a
plaything-but you will not make either a
fool or a plaything of me. You will be m~y
wift / I have told you so before, I tell you
so again. You do not half know me, Nina,
if you fancy that any thing can stand be-
tween us now!"

No, she did not half know him. Some-
thing like a realization of that came to Nina
as she looked at the face before her-a pas-
sionate, stern face, with the resolution in it
deepening as she gazed, until duller eyes
might have read a determination which would
heed no obstacles to its end.
"I have brought this on myself~" she said.
"I have no right to complain. But you have
no right to speak so to me. I have forgotten
a great deal for you, but I cannot forget every
thing."
"And yet that is what you must do 1"
he said. "You must forget every thing and
everybody connected with your past life, and
come with me. You must not look back and
try to reconcile the past with the future. It
can never be!" Then he took her bands and
drew icr to him - more compellingly than
tenderly. "Let us have done with this!"
he said. "Nina, you are mine! Do you not
love me well enough to be glad of it?"
But Nina drew back.
"How can I be yours," she said, "when
I am engaged to Ralph? Surely" (with a
bitter laugh) "I cannot belong to both of
you. 1 say again, that I have been mad and
foolish, but I never meant to marry you.
You ought to know that."
"You mean that you have been deliber-
ately trifling with me!" said he, a dark fire
gathering in his eye, a red flush mounting
to his brow.
"If I did mean that," said she, with a
flash of spirit, "you would have no right to
complain. Did you not intend to trifle with
me, when you remained here after having told
Ralph that his 'idea' ~was worth nothing?"
"No," answered he, quietly. "I never
meant to trifle with you. I stayed here sim-
ply and solely because I loved you and meant
to win you."
"And do you call that honorable to
Ralph?" said she, indignantly.
"Ralph!" repeated he, contemptuously.
"Do you suppose I thought of Ralph? I
only thought of you, Nina! Ralph was niere-
ly the stepping - stone by whicl~i I reached
you.~~
"Poor Ralph l" said Nina. She put her
hand quickly to her eyes. What right had
she to blame Martindale when she considered
how unscrupulously she had used and abused
Ralph's great faith in her? A flood of remorse
seemed suddenly to rush over her. The hand-

25

24


26                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.                                                       NINA'S ATONEMENT.                   27

some, imperious face before her vanished
away; Ralph's loving eyes came back. At
that moment she forgot the fair, broad free-
dom of the world which lay beyond these
quiet shades. She only thought of the love
which had been disregarded, of the trust
wbieh bad been betrayed. If she walked on
to the life which was awaiting her-the life
whose possibilities set her blood in a glow-
she felt that she must walk over Ralph's
heart. Could she do that? There are many
women-some of whom would doubles~ think
themselves much better than poor Ninti~'-who
would not have hesitated an instant over
such a necessity. But, with all her faults
and impulses, Nina did hesitate. In fact, she
did more than hesitate. She cried out pas-
sionately: "We have both betrayed his trust
in us-but I am the most to blame I I can.
try to atone by keeping faith with him; but,
oh, what an atonement it will be!"
"It would be a foolish self-sacrifice that
could only end by making him as wretched as
it would make you!" said Martindale. "Nina,
can you not recognize the folly of all this?
Why should you waste your strength against
the inevitable? You could as soon call back
the sun, which has just set, into mid-heaven,
as set aside the consequences which must
flow from an accomplished fact. We can
none of us escape the necessity of giving as
well as of receiving pain. If we paused at
every step in life to think what heart we
should crush, we would never be likely to
advance. You were born to crush hearts!"
he said, with a proud, passionate tenderness.
"Just now you must choose between mine
and Ralph's. Which is it to be?"
"I do not owe you what I owe Ralph,"
said Nina, looking up.
But, all the same, she felt that she had
failed in this first contest of opposing wills.
CHAPTER V.
Buy this first contest was only the key-
K note of a struggle to come-a struggle which
grew in intensity day by day, as the time for
Nina~ s marriage approached, and, as Martin-
dale began to realize that it would prove more
difficult than he imagined to sway her to his'
purpose. He found that a change had come
over the girl-a change which struck below
the surface, and which puzzled even while it

angered him. For a while he doubted its
genuineness: it was nothing more than an
impulse of generosity, he thought, or else one
of those tricks of coquetry which women of
all ages a~d all countries understand so well.
But, a~ time went on, he could no longer treat
it with noncludant coolness; he was forced
to believe that Nina was in earnest when she
declared her intention of keeping faith with
Ralph. It was then that he began to appre-
ciate how much he had overrated his influ-
ence with her. It was then that he first be-
gan to understand that she had only meant
to amuse herself- only meant to feed her
vanity and test her power with his homage-
and that, although she had been drawn, by
the strong force of will rather than by the
strong force of attraction, further than she
intended, she had never seriously meant to
surrender for his sake any one of the substan-
tial advantages which opened before her as
Ralph Wyverne's wife.
At least this was Martindale's way of put-
ting it. Recognizing with a start that he had
never wakened more than that flattered fancy
which the impressionable heart of a girl yields
readily enough to the first comer, and that
in this fancy there was no element of that
love which heeds no obstacles to its end, he
did not recognize how much the girl had to
resist in her cager longing for the world, and
those things of the world which he embodied.
Finding that she stood firm in her resolution
'of marrying Ralph, it would be hard to say
how much of foiled desire, of wounded vanity,
and outraged bitterness, gathered in his con-
sideration of the manner in which she had
"trifled" with him. No man likes his own
weapons to be turned against him in such
fashion; but Martiadale liked it less even
than most men. He had good reason for
thinking that he knew the world more than
ordinarily well, and he felt deeply that he had
been "made a fool of" by a girl whose expe-
rience of society began and ended in the stag-
nant country neighborhood around her. If
this pang of mortified vanity-keen as it was
-had been all the trouble, however, he might
have shaken the dust of Wyverne off his feet
in disgust, and left Nina to the fate she had
chosen. Unfortunately, however, there were
graver passions in reserve-passions that be-
gan ~o rouse themselves in ominous sternness
when he saw the beautiful prize, which he
had determined to call his own, in danger

of passing from him. Never before had it
seemed so well worth winning! Never had
Nina seemed so well worth any sacrifice or
exertion, as when she set her will against his
own, and declared her intention of fulfilling
her engagement! Never had his determina-
tion waxed greater than when she enraged
him by an opposition on which he had not
counted, by a defiance of which he had not
dreamed! And, in order that this determi-
nation may be appreciated at its full value, it
must be said that Martindale was troubled
with singularly few scruples, and that he pos-
sessed in marked degree a resolutioxi so in-
domitable that he had learned to think it
invincible. Add to this, intense passions, to-
gether with a very small amount of what
phrenologists call "conscientiousness," and
the most tranquil ignorance might imagine
that the combination could not fail to be dan-
gerous, let it be veiled by never so much of
that graceful indifference which our nine-
teenth-century civilization has taught its men
and women to cultivate. Vesuvius is none
the less Vesuvius because gardens are planted
on its slope; the volcano is not extinct, and,
when its lava bursts forth, the gardens fare
but ill.
It is useless to say that, if Nina had
known any thing of the character of the man
with whom she had "amused" herself, she
might have felt that he was right in telling
her that it was too late to think of disowning
the consequences of her folly, too late to
dream of atonement to Ralph, too late for
any attempt at controlling the demon of cir-
cumstance she had evoked. But she was too
inexperienced to form any judgment of char-
acter in the concrete. Judging in the ab-
stract, she conceived Martindale to be like
all other men of his class of whom she had
heard and read, quick enough to amuse him-
self with a pretty face, but ready enough also
to see when the amusement was over, and to
go his way with due philosophy and an un-
broken heart. Strong passions and desperate
deeds were quite out of fashion nowadays,
she thought. It was only in old romances
that men were incited to either or both by
the magic of a woman's fair face. Other
people besides Nina think these things. Other
people, also, wake to find that this old, wicked
human nature of ours is the same to-day as
yesterday, the same yesterday as three hun-
dred or three thousand years ago.

Yet, despite this comfortable assurance,
these days were very terrible to Nina. The
girl felt as if she moved in a vague, dreadful
mist. She was living a dual life, and she
sometimes stopped to ask herself which of
the two existences was real. On one side
was all the preparation for her marriage-
that preparation which agitates the ordinary
feminine mind and the ordinary domestic
household so deeply-.-Mrs. Wyverne's ani-
mated bustle over the trousseau, the wedding-
cards, the wedding-breakfast- every thing
connected with the wedding, in fact-and
Ralph's quiet but tender certainty of happi-
ness. On the other was Martindale's fiery
passion, his vehement pleading, his arbitrary
assertions of power, the struggle ever re-
newed yet never ended, and, above all, the
alluring temptation of freedom-freedom so
near that she had but to stretch out her hand
and take it, yet so far away, since she could
not harden her heart sufficiently to stretch
out that hand.
It was no wonder that the bright cheek
grew pale, or that dark circles sprung for the
first time into existence under the sunny eyes,
even during this short fortnight. Few of us
have not learned to our cost how much of
emotion can be compressed into the space of
a few days-nay, even of a few hours. And,
epicurean though she was, Nina suffered as
she enjoyed-with her whole soul. She had
never mastered-it is doubtful if by any pos-
sibility she ever could have mastered-the
phlegmatic impossibility which is the grand
talisman of selfish happiness. Hers was a
wholly different temperament - a tempera-
ment that, for all its intense love of pleasure,
could not divorce its energy even from pain,
and, despite its fitful waywardness, pos-
sessed impulses of generosity that scarcely
hesitated at any height of self-sacrifice.
"You may make this sacrifice," Martindale
said, "but you will not have strength enough
to abide by it." And, in truth, this was where
Nina failed. She had sufficient enthusiasm
and unselfishness for a quick martyrdom;
but, for that slow martyrdom of the soul
which we call the death of hope, sh~c possessed
neither courage nor strength. An observation
less keen than Martindale's might have pre-
dicted that, if she married Ralph Wyverne,
she would not even sink into the apathy which
with many women does duty for resignation,
but would rather eat out her heart in long-

26

NINA'S ATONEMENT.

27


28                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.

ings and desires as bitter as they were fruit-
less.
Time, which stands still for no man, rolled
swiftly on, meanwhile, and the date appointed
for the marriage drew very near. During
these days, the household at Wyverne saw
but little of Martindale. All of the day, and
most of the night, he spent in the laboratory,
generally working with closed doors. Even
Ralph knew little of what he was about. In
fact, just then Ralph was thinking of other
things. The near approach of matrimony
banished even chemistry from his mind-be-
sides which, Mr. Wyverne chanced to be
"laid up" with an attack of gout; and this
indisposition naturally threw an added amount
of business into his son's hands. In days of
~vell-organized labor, it was no trifle to keep
the eye of a master on two large plantations;
but in these days the necessity of supervision
is increased by ten- if not by twenty-fold.
Hence Ralph was busy, and business dulls
men's faculties of observation. He had only
a vague idea of what Martindale was doing,
and, although he saw that l~ina was looking
rather pale, he thought that it would be "all
right" after they were married, and had left
home for that change of air which is con-
sidered beneficial for newly-married people.
"Have you seen any thing of Martindale
to-day, Nina?" he asked one afternoon when
he had come in tired from a ride of several
miles, and flung himself at luxurious full
length on a couch in the hall, where Nina
chanced to be sitting.
"Very little," she answered, quietly. Her
hands were clasped idly over a novel which
she had not been reading, her eyes gazed
wistfully out of the broad, open door to the
afternoon lights and shadows that were
cheekering the lawn beyond. Just then it
occurred to her with a thrill of relief that
there were only three more days of this to be
endured. Three days hence she would be
married and gone-never likely, she hoped
and trusted, to see Martindale again.
"I must go down and look in on that fel-
low," Ralph was, meanwhile, saying lazily.
"He told me yesterday that he was devoting
himself to my experiments, and had made
some progress in them. He seems wonder-
fully well satisfied wirh his quarters. He
says he has never before been able to test in
a thoroughly satisfactory manner some ideas
of his own. I told him I hoped he would

stay here while we were gone, and, when we
come back, I shall be more at leisure, and we
can go over the result of all that he has done."
"Ralph I "-it was a low, quivering cry
that absolutely made Ralph start-" you sure.
ly have not done such a thing as that? You
surely have not asked that man to stay hero
when you know how much l-I distrust him?"
"Yes, I have," said Ralph. He was quite
astonished, and raised himself on his elbow.
"I am sorry if you don't like it," he went on,
after a moment, "but really, Nina, I had no
idea that your dislike of Martindale went so
far as this. I am sure im thinks veryhighly
of iou, and-"
"I did not say that I disliked him, Ralph,"
she interrupted, with a painful flush, "but
that I distrust him. I do not think his ex-
periments will ever come to any thing, and I
am sorry there is any prospect of his being
here when we return. I-I was only just
thinking that it would be a relief to be alone?'
"I wonder I did not think of that my-
self," said Ralph, looking as much discom-
fited as a large Newfoundland does when, by
some piece of amateur sagacity, he incurs
scolding instead of commendation. "It was
stupid of me, but I really did not think that
Martindale mattered. I thought you had
grown to like him famously-and then the
chemistry, Nina!. I should like to go to that
in earnest when we come back."
"Can't you go to it by yourself?" asked
Nina. But she heaved a weary sigh. She*
knew that even her influence reckoned for
nothing when opposed to that of chemistry.
"I don't know" answered Ralph, doubt-
fully. "You see I have been so busy that I
have not been able to keep up with what
Martindale is doing. Unless he is here when
I come back, therefore, his having been here
at all will have done me little good."
"Why did you bring him, then?'~ said
Nina. Her hands wrung themselves tightly
together. How lightly and idly this had been
done which had changed the whole current
and meaning of her life!
"I have told you all about that," said
Ralph, sinking back on his cushions. "I
was sorry for having brought him when I
found you did not like him, and I am still
more sorry for having so thoughtlessly asked
him to prolong his visit; but I can't get out
of it now, you know," said the honest, hos-
pitable fellow

NINA'3 2

"One can't ask one's guest to leave, cer.
mainly," said Nina, bitterly. "But the guesi
himself may sometimes have discretion enough~
to see that it would be well to do so."
"Not unless he perceives that his pres.
ence is disagreeable," said Ralph, adding, a
little indignantly, "I would infinitely rather
show a man out of my house than treat him
with incivility in it."
"I was not thinking of treating him with
incivility," said Nina, half absently. "You
ought to know that, Ralph. No one is more
Arabian in his ideas of hospitality than I
am; 1?ut-did Mr. Martindale say that he
would remain?" she interrupted herself by
asking, looking quickly at her cousin.
"He made a sort of half promise-his
movements were uncertain for the next
month, be said; but he added that, if we rc-
mained as long as we intended, we should
probably find him here when we returned."
There was silence for a minute after this.
The drowsy stillness of a summer afternoon
seemed to brood over the house; now and then
a gentle snore came from the library where
Mr. Wyverne was enjoying a 8ze515; a few flies
were lazily buzzing about-.Keeper, the great
inastiff snapped at them occasionally; the
lastrays of the sun were streaming across the
terrace, and reddening the cedar.hedge. Nina
watched it all as in a dream. She was won.
during what M~frtindale meant, and how she
could best prevent any thing 59 terrible as it
would be to find him at Wyverne when she
came back from her bridal tour.
After a while she rose. Ralph was tired,
and, finding himself in a very comfortable
position, he had fallen asleep with that air of
supreme, restful enjoyment which we notice
in the slumbers of children and dogs. With
one glance at his placid, unconscious face,
Nina took her garden.hat from a table near
by, and went out of the open door.
She walked slowly around the terrace,
pondering whether or not she was wise in
seeking Martiudale, as a sudden impulse
prompted her to do. For several days she
had studiously avoided the garden, where
most of their interviews had taken place. The
scenes of passionate struggle, which at first
had been so exciting and pleasant, had of late
wearied and torn and terrified her all at once.
The old legends are right: "It is much easier
to raise a fiend than to put him down again;"
and there arc instances around us every day
3

LTUNEMENT.                             29
of people who, having tried the experiment,
fare as badly as their incautious predecessors
of the middle ages.
Nina, unluckily for herself; was one of
these. The fiend which she had raised proved
totally beyond her powers of management.
The stormy and exacting devotion for which
she had longed was not half so entertaining
as she had imagined it would be. During
these days, she had turned more than once
with a sense of absolute relief to Ralph's quiet
affection and unwavering trust. As she went
her way now-dawn the terrace. steps and
along the garden-paths-she felt a shrinking
in every fibre from the Scene before her. 11cr
whole pleasure-loving nature rose up in re-
volt against the pain and vexation which
seemed to encompass her. "It is infamous!
-he has no right to torment me so!" she
said, setting her white teeth and clinching
her soft hands. "I will not submit to it any
longer.~~
As she uttered these words half aloud,
she turned into a path that led directly to the
pavilion. It stood clearly before her at the
end of the vista, a pretty and appropriate ad-
junct to the luxuriant, old-fashioned garden.
As she strolled slowly along-her steps un-
consciously growing more lagging as she ap.
proached-she saw a juvenile factotum of the
establishment, black in color and Jack by
name, emerge from the laboratory and ad-
vance along the path toward her, swinging
something in his hand. What this was she
could not distinguish until, as he drew near,
it proved to be a dead cat; which no sooner
did Miss -Dalzell perceive, than she promptly
and imperiously collared the bearer:
"Where did that come from, Jack 1"' she
demanded. "What are you doing with it?"
"Mr. Martindale killed him, and telled Inc
to take him and fling him away," said Jack,
who had a wholesome fear of being arraigned
for cruelty at the bar of "Miss Ninas" indig-
nant justice.
"Mr. Martindale killed it!" repeated
Nina. She was on the point of saying, "How
dare you tell me such a falsehood~"' when
she remembered that the boy had come dowz~
the laboratory-steps, which gave at least a
plausible air to the statement. "Why did
Mr. Martindale kill it?" she asked, suspicious-
ly. "Is it not your mother's cat? Jack, if
you are telling me what is not so-"
"I ain't a-tellin' you what ain't so, Misu


NINA'S ATONEMENT.                   31

30                    NINA'S ATONEMENT,

Nina," said Jack, filled With' a sense of vir-
tuous innocence. "Mammy said Mr. Martin-
gale might have old Tom for a dollar, an' he
tole me to fotch him along, an' I done it, an'
he killed him."
"How did he kill him?" demanded Nina.
She still looked at the speaker with an air of
suspicion, which Jack felt to be hard to bear.
"I dunno exactlyy how," he answered,
shuffling one bare, black foot in the sand.
" He never done nothing' to him. He jist put
him under some kind of a glass thing, an' he
dropped right down dead, as if he'd a bin
shot."
"I wonder if he is dead," said Nina. She
examined the lax, inanimate form with tender
fingers, while Jack looked on without much
wonder; he knew "Miss Nina's ways." But
it was all in vain. Science had done its work.
Poor Tom was hopelessly dead; so, bidding
Jack give him decent burial, Nina turned and
walked away.
She could not go to the laboratory after
that. It was not only that she was revolted
-unreasonably revolted, perhaps, after the
manner of people who have not the love or
the advancement of science at heart-by the
cruelty of which she had just heard, but a
sudden strange sense of terror came over her.
She told herself that it was irrational, but she
could not reason it away. Of course, she had
always known what deadly forces lurked in
chemistry; she had also been aware that Mar-
tindale, in pursuit of an "idea" of hig own,
had been experimenting for some time in poi-
sonous gases; and she knew, as everybody
knows, how ruthlessly the devotees of science
sacrifice God's helpless creatures on their
altar. But, despite all this, she could not
drive away that chill sense of impending evil
which had come so suddenly, and with which
we are all familiar-which we call a presenti-
ment when it is fulfilled, and which we forgot
with so much ease when it is unfulfilled. She
was aware that it probably arose from her
own overwrought frame of mind; yet, when
she turned aside and sat down in a little rose-
arborher heart was beating like that of some
frightened wild creature. The sun was gone
by this time, and the lovely, fragrant twilight
had fallen over the earth. But Nina had no
heed for it. "I am a fool!" she thought,
angrily. "I am worse than a fool! But how
terrible-oh, how terrible-for any one to
hold such power as that!" Then she thought:

"He must go away! I do not trust him; I
said I did not trust him, from the first. God
forgive me, if I am wronging him, as we
should not wrong our worst enemy-but there
is something dreadful about him! I have felt
that, and yet I have told myself that it was
folly. But he must go-even if I have to tell
Ralph the truth."
Yet she felt that, to tell Ralph the trutb,
would be to put out of the question the sac-
rifice which she desired to make for him.
Dearly as he loved her, bitterly as it would
pain him to surrender her, Ralph Wyverne was
made of better stuff than to accept any wo-
man's hapd-even that of the woman he loved
best on earth-if it were given unwillingly.
If he had once known how Nina's impatient
heart yearned for the freedom of the world,
for a life and love such as he could not give
her, he would have been the first to snap
asunder the link which bound them to each
other; and of this fact no one was more
thoroughly aware than the girl who sat there
under the roses, gazing with absent eyes and
overclouded brow at the wealth of summer
bloom and beauty around her
But, despite the anxious thoughts which
overshadowed her, she made a picture that
stirred Martiidale's heart into a tumult of ad.
migration when he came round a turn of the
path upon her. He had caught a glimpse of
her white dress from the laboratory, and fol-
lowed as quickly as possible; but, not look-
ing for her just here, the sudden spell of her
loveliness - framed' by the green vines and
hanging roses-moved him the more strongly
for its unexpectedness. It is hard to define
a mental sensation of any kind, but it is es-
pecially hard to define the effect which beau-
ty produces on the soul of its worshiper, on
the temperament that is keenly alive to its
influence. He started and stopped for a mo-
ment, then came forward quickly. Hearing
the ring of his tread on the gravel path, Nina
turned toward him and they faced each other.
"I am glad to find you," he said, ab-
ruptly. "When I caught a glimpse of yo~r
dress a few minutes ago, I was thinking 9f
going to the house in search of you. But
this is better."
"You can have nothing to say to we,"
said Nina, coldly. "Why should you have
gone to the house in search of me? But I
have something to say to you," she went on,
catching her breath quickly, and looking at

him with level, defiant eyes. "That is why
I came into the garden. Ralph has just told
me that you have promised to stay at Wy.
verne while we are gone, and to be here when
we return. I have come to tell you that it is
impossible-that I will not submit to any
thing of the kind. Sooner than endure it, I
will tell him every thin"'
"He will not need to be told any thing,"
said Martindale, quietly. He looked paler
than usual, and there were certain stern-cut
lines about hi~ mouth, tl~e full significance of
which Nina had not yet learned to appreciate.
"He will know every thing sooner and better
than words can tell him-for I have come to
tell you that this must end. You must leave
Wyverne with me to-night, Nina."
"Leave Wyverne with you to-night!" re-
peated Nina. For a minute she could say no
more. His cool assumption of a proprietor-
ship which she had repeatedly disowned, ab-
solutely stunned her. She felt outraged and
indignant even while she was conscious of a
horrible sense of impotence. What could she
do against a man with whom words went lit-
erally for naught? Her own folly had placed
her in his power, and, although she had for a
time defied its exercise, she has of late been
aware of a growing fear of Martindale. Rea-
son told her that it was impossible for him
to compel her to any thing; but instinct-
sometimes the wisest as well as sometimes
~the foolishest of guides-warned her that he
would probably end by compelling her to all
that lie desired.
"What do you mean by speaking to me
in this manner!" she said, flushing angrily.
"How often must I tell you that I mean to
keep my faith with Ralph at any cost? How
often must I repeat that I will not be so un-
grateful as to leave those who have done
every thing for me, for you who have done
nothing save poison my life with discontent,
and make me wretched? But it is useless to
go over this," she said, quivering with excite.
ment. "In three days I shall be married,
and it will be at an end. All that I came to
say is-you must go away from Wyverne!"
"I shall go when you are ready to go with
me," he answered. His tone would have in-
dicated to duller ears than those of the girl
who listened, that the struggle between them
had reached its supreme issue. His face hard-
ened in resolution as she looked, but his
eyes were full of passionate light. "Have

you learned yet that there is no power short
of death which can make me leave you?" he
said. "Nina, have you not yet appreciated
the utter folly of all this? You are mine! I
will keep you at any cost. It is for you to
decide what that cost shall be."
"My experience of men is limited," said
Nina, exasperated beyond all power of for-
bearance, "but I have never known or heard
of a man who found it so difficult to under-
stand a plain and decided refusal as you seem
to do."
"Perhaps you have never known or heard
of a man who himself refused so decidedly to
be made the plaything of feminine caprice,"
said Martindale. There was no indication of
ruffled temper in his tone, though she saw a
quick flash in the brown eyes. "But this is
sheer waste of time," he went on, "and
every minute is precious.' Nina, I can make
arrangements for our departure to-night, if
you will consent to come with me. Once for
all, will you do it?"
"Once for all - no!" answered Nina.
She uttered the last word with an emphasis
that startled a bird in the top of the arbor.
It flew upward with a shrill cry that in turn
startled her. To her overwrought fancy, it
sounded like a note of warning.
"No!" repeated Martindale. He took
her hands almost violently into his own.
"Nina, do you mean it?" he said, hoarsely.
"Do you understand what it implies? Do
you know that you will drive me to do any
tking to break off this accursed marriage?
For you love me - you cannot deny that.
Neither can you deny that you long for the
world which I offer and can give you. Nina,
if you are wise, you will come with me now-
at once!"
"If you were generous, you would go
away and leave me," said Nina, with a gasp.
She was touched and torn by his vehemence,
by his pale, passionate, pleading face. But
she stood firm. There was something more
than ordinary in the girl, after all. She was
more nearly in love with Martindale at that me-
ment than she had ever been before, and a great
wave ofyea~in~for freedom and pleasure, the
sweets of life an~ the gifts of love, seemed to
rush over her. But she thought of Ralph, of
those who, as she said, had "done every
thing" for her; and her whole nature rose
up in rebellion against the treachery of Ieav~.
ing them thus, I' I cannot!" she said. "I

9

31

30


32                    NINA'S ATONEMENT.

cannot 1 Oh, why did you come? Why dli
you not go away long ago? Why do you no,
leave me in peace? I must, I will, marr~
Ralph?"
"You will never marry Ralph I" said he
"Nina, I tell you again that, if you are wise
you will come With me to-night. You thiul
that you will work harm to Ralph Wyvern(
by going; believe me, you may work wors
harm to him by staying."
"How can I work harm to him by stay.
ing?" she asked, glancing up quickly. Some
thing in his tone-a menacing accent hard to
be described- thrilled her with a sudden,
vague fear. She felt herself shiver from head
to foot in the warm, summer dusk. The sus-
picion which had rushed upon her, without
any apparent cause a little while before, came
back now. What did Martindale intend to
imply? How could she work harm to Ralph
by staying?
"What do you mean?" she asked, shrink-
ing back a little. "You must be more ex-
plicit if you wish me to understand you. How
can I work harm to Ralph by staying?"
"You will make his life miserable," said
Martindale. "The stuff of which tame, house-
hold martyrs are made, is not in you, Nina.
That fiery soul of yours will pinelike a caged
eagle when you are once Ralph Wyverne's
wife~ You must come with me. For God's
sake, end this miserable trifling, and say that
you will do so! Nina, you mint come! There
is no time to lose. We must leave here to-
night.' To-morrow you will be my wife, and,
before the week is out, we shall have sailed
for Europe."
"No" said Nina. It was her one sheet.
anchor-this monosyllable-and she clung to
it as a drowning man clings to the spar that
may be his salvation. "No-I cannot?'~
"Do you mean that you will not?" he
asked. He dropped her bands as he spoke,
and recoiled a step, looking at her with
burning, passionate eyes, and pale, set face.
"Nina-stop and think! Do you mean that
you will net?"
"Yes, I mean that," she answered. This
last struggle was harder thai she had thought
that it would be-this last pang was sharper
than she had counted upon-but she felt that,
at any cost, "every thing" must be ended.
At any cost, Martindalo must learn that his
further presence at Wyverne was useless. So
ahe threw back her graceful head haughtily.

I, "have you at last begun to realize that 1
mean it?" she asked. "Do you at last un-
derstand that I have never intended to marry
you? and that I have always intended to
- marry Ralph?"
There was a tone of almost insolent defi.
ance in these words, which, if she had be~n~
wise, would have been the very last she would
have adopted-a tone calculated to sting
Martindale's sensitive pride like the touch of
- a whip. It's effect was perceptible in a mo-
- ment, even through his proof-armor of trained
self-command. A dark-red flush surged over
his face, then retreated as quickly. A gleam
of dangerous fire came into his eyes, which
* did not retreat, and his lips set themselves'
quickly and sternly under the brown mus-
tache. For a minute he did not answer; but
Nina-who had by this time learned to know
something of the weather-signs of his face-
shrank a little. If she feared violence, she
was reassured, however, by the quietness of
the tone in which he spoke.
"Yes, I understand you at last," he said.
"Perhaps, indeed, I have understood you all
the time better than you think. That you
have not at all understood me is, no doubt, a
matter of much less importance. I have al-
ways thought," he went on, with a short
laugh, "that the man who allows a woman to
play fast-and-loose with him deserves all that
falls to his share in the way of suffering and
mortification. Your candor teaches me that
I am quite right. Whoever has incurred con-
tempt cannot be surprised that it is bestowed
upon him. Whoever suffers himself to be
made the toy of a woman must expect to re-
ceive her ~ There are some toys that, in
unskillful hands, prove dangerous, however.
It is always well to remember that."
"I did not mean-" Nina began; but he
interrupted her imperiously, seizing her hands
again as one who claims what is his by right.
"You must mean one thing, or else noth-
ing!" he said. "For the last time, Nina,
will you come with inc to-night?"
"For the last time-no!" answered Nina.
,The word rang out clearly on the dewy, fragrant
stillness. By a supreme effort, she wrenched
her hands out of his clasp, and turned from
him. There was a spell in his face against
which she could not harden her heart. "How
often must I repeat it?" she demanded, bit-
terly. "How often must I say 'No!
"You need not say it again," Martindale's

N1NA~S ATONEMENT.

voice answered out of the gloaming at her
side. "I have been slow to comprehend, cer-
tainly, but I think I. see at last. You have
made your choice, Nina. Remember that its
Leonsequences rest with yourself."
~
turn her face again toward him, but she hear'~t
'his quick, elastic tread crushing down the
gravel as he walked away.
-4--
CHAPTER VI.
WHEn Nina entered the dining-room an
hour later, she found that tea was over. The
polished table still stood in the centre of the
floor, glittering with its silver service and
old-fashioned cut-glass dishes; but nobody
was visible save Price, who was meditatively
folding a napkin, when she stepped through
one of the long French windows into the
room.
"Has everybody finished supper?" she
asked, coming forward, looking so much like
a pale wraith of herself, as the lamplight fell
over her, that even Price noticed it, when he
started and turned.
"Yes'm-they's all done," be answered.
"Mistis told me to keep the table standing'
till you come in, but I'm afraid tJ~e coffee's
cold, Miss Nina."
"I think I will take some tea," mid Nina,
sitting down in the first seat to which she
came.
She disliked tea, as a general rule; but
she remembered to have heard that it is a
quicker stimulant than coffee, and she felt,
just then, as if she needed a stimulant-the
quicker the better.
Price was a little surprised, but he was a
servant of the old school, and consequently
too well bred to say anything. He poured
out the tea-which was strong enough to
satisfy the most dissipated of drinkers-and
carried it to Nina in a goblet half filled with
ice, jingling pleasantly. It looked pretty, but
Price, who held the fragrant Chinese herb In
low esteem, knew that it did not taste well,
and he expected an immediate demand for a
cup of coffee. Instead of this, however, his
capricious young mistress drained the glass,
set it down with a grimace, and rose to her
feet.
"Ain't you goin' to take something' to eat,
Miss Nina?" said Price, astonished and really
concerned at her appearance.

She shook her head.
"Not any thing," she answered. "I am
not hungry."
She did not even give a glance at the
tempting array of dainty dishes as she turned
across the hall. Then he looked at the empty
goblet, and shook hie head.
"There's something' wrong," said he, philo-
sophically. "A woman with as good a appe-
tite as Miss Nina ain't a.goin' to take nothing'
but a little tea all of a sudden-an' look 'like
death besides-without some good reason.
I'm thinking' we're more likely t~ have a spell
o' sickness than a wedding' here ~hortly."
Meanwhile, Nina entered the drawing-
room, where she found Mr. and Mrs. Wyverne
and Ralph-the two former playing cards, of
which Mr. Wyverne was inconveniently fond,
the latter yawning and looking bored over a
newspaper. At sight of his betrothed, his
face brightened, however, and the uninterest-.
ing sheet was tossed aside.
"Where have you been, Nina?" he de-
manded at once. "I was setting out in
search of you a little while ago, but Martin.
dale said he left you in the garden just before
tea, so I thought you would come in when
you felt lIke it. What kept you so late?"
"Nothing in particular," answered Nina.
"It was cool and pleasant out there, and I
did not care for tea."
"I am afraid you are not well," said
Ralph, getting up and coming forward; he
was struck, as Price had been, by her changed
appearance. "Let me look at you in the
light. Why, how pale you are! Nina, some-
thing is certainly the matter. Are you sick?"
"Nothing is the matter," said Nina. 'She
was provoked with herself for being pale, and
provoked with Ralph for noticing it. "One
cannot help one's looks, or account for'them 1"
Then, impatiently: "How warm it is in here!
This room is intolerable with its glare of ll~ht.
Let us go out on the terrace."
Out on the terrace they went accordingly,
A faint, indefinite light was shinin~ from a
lovely young moon hanging in the western
half of the sky. Nina looked more like a
a spirit than a woman, Ralph. thought, in this
vague lustre, with her misty-white dress, out
of which the dew-damp had taken all stiff-
ness, clinging abput her. Something in her
appearance reminded him of the night when

32


34,                         NINA'S A
she had risen from the laboratory steps tc
meet Martindale and himself, and they ha~
likened her to a fairy; yet he felt instinctive
ly that the difference was greater than th
similarity.
birznaayn:gnt-4n:s night a month ago, wai
it not? Somehow you put me in mind of ii
as you stand there now. Do you remember
how Nartindale and I met you at the labora-
tory, and how we told you that you looked
like a fairy? Tonight you look like a spirit,"
"Why do you speak of that?" said Nina.
He was not prepared for the shrinking start
which she gave. "Why do you remind me
of it? WI*s it a month ago tonight? I had
not thought of it. How strange that it should
be! Ralph "-she turned to him abruptly.-
"do you believe in presentiments? Of course
you do not, however; nobody ever does until
they have felt them. But do you remember
how I begged youa month ago this night not
to keep that man here or trust to his experi-
ments? 0 Ralph, if you had only heeded
mel"
"Why should I have heeded you?" said
Ralph. Bvcn the passionate vibration in her
tone did not rouse his dull suspicion. On the
contrary, he conceived it to be only a fresh
proof of the prejudice which is inherent in
the feminine nature; and he felt inclined to
indulge in a little masculine triumph over it.
"As far as my experiments are concerned,
it is a very good thing that I did not heed
you," he went on, with such a glow of self.
satisfaction in his tone that Nina was half
prepared for what was coming. "You may
take sufficient interest in them to be glad to
J.ear that Martindale told me, only a little while
ago, that he at last sees his way to a success-
Fnl result; in fact, that it may be said to be
accomplished. He would tell me nothing un-
til he was certain, he said, although he had
fancied as much for some time."
"When did he tell you this?" asked
Nina, stopping short in her walk,
"Only a little while ago-when he came
in to tea," Ralph answered. "It was quite a
surprise to me, and really I scarcely know
how to be grateful enough to him. His ap.
plication has certainly been wonderful, and
to-night he has returned to the laboratory to
make some final tests, which I am to go down
and see a little later."
"To go down and see 1" repeated Nina.

NINA'S ATONEMENT.                 3

TENEMENTT.

She could say nothing more. Her whole at-
I tension became concentrated on her own
- mind. Was she mad or sane in the horrible
fear that came to her as Ralph uttered those
words? Was she distraught with the idle
appreciate-as if illumined by a flash of light
-the full meaning of some words Martindale
had spoken to her but a few short hours be-
fore?
"Yes, to go down and see I" said
Ralph, triumphantly. "Seeing is believing,
you know I I wish you would let this be a
lesson to you about the folly of prejudice,
Ninetta," he went on, feeling it incumbent
upon him to point the occasion with a moral.
"If I had been uncivil and ungrateful enough
to send Martindale away, as you requested, I
should never have had the great pleasure of
seeing my idea brought to a practical and sue-
cessful issue."
"Do you think you will see it now?"
said Nina. She was sorry for the words after
she had uttered them. Ralph would only
think her more prejudiced; she would only
lessen her power of influencing him.
"1 cannot doubt Martindale's word," he
answered, gravely; "and I certainly should
not think of doubting his judgment. His as-
surance wa's positive with regard to the suc-
cessful result of the experiments. But when
I come back from the laboratory, I shall be
able to tell you more positively," he added,
smiling.
"When are you to go?" she asked.-
Som'ething strange and cold in her tone struck
Ralph. He was surprised and pained. It is
always hard to realize that our pleasure gives
no pleasure to those whom we love.
"Martindale said about ten o'clock," he
answered. "I suppose jt is after nine now-
these summer nights are so short! I wanted
to go at once, but he said he preferred to bp
alone while he made one or two final expe$-
ments; and I did not press the point."
"About ten o'clock I" repeated Nin~z.
She put her hand to her head. Her brain
felt in a whirl. She could scarcely have given
a definite expression to the fears and suspi-
cions that thronged upon her. One thing
only was clear and unmistakable - doubt I
Doubt of Martindale, and doubt of his ex-
periments I "There is no truth in him!"
she said to herself; and those words which
he had unintentionally let fall in the midst of

his passion in the garden, came back to her
with grim, warning significance: "You think
you will work harm to Ralph Wyverne by go-
ing: believe me, you may work worse harm
to him by staying!"
* "Why, you are resolving into an echo,"
said Ralph, smiling. "Is not ten o'clock as
good an hour as any other?" Then he took
her hand and drew it into his arm. " Dear,~~
he said, a little wistfully, "have you no word
of sympathy or congratulation for me? I
know you don't like chemistry, but still-"
"I do like it!" said Nina, with a short,
dry sob. "I like every thing that you like,
Ralph! I am sorry that I have not given
you more s~mnpathy and encouragement, but I
have been so selfish that I have thought only
of~myself. What a terrible thing it is to
think of one's self!" she cried, passionate-
ly. "What misery it works on everybody I
Ralph I "-to his surprise she threw her arms
around and clung to him-" can you forgive
me? I-oh, I am very sorry!"
"Forgive you, my darling!" said Ralph;
"what on earth have I to forgive you for?"
Well as he knew the impulses-now~ passion-
ate, now tender-of this wayward girl, he did
not understand her at present. "I hope we
shall do better after we are married," he said,
cheerfully. "You will take some interest in
chemistry then, and we shall settle into a
scientific Darby and Joan. But you must not
excite yourself like this, Why, your hands
are burning, and yet you are shivering! Nina,
you certainly are not well. You must have
been in the dew too long this evening. Don't
stay out any longer, dear! Go to bed, and
to-morrow I will tell you all about the experi-
ments."
"I am not sleepy or sick," said Nina.
"Why should I go to bed? Ralph, will you
do something for me, or, rather, will you let
me do something?" she went on, eagerly. "I
always said that I was another Fatima, you
know; that if I had married Bluebeard I
should certainly have opened the closet; so
nobody need ever be surprised at my curiosity.
Jnst now I have a fancy to see the result of
Mr. Martindale's experiments~ before you do.
Won't you be obliging, and let me go down
to the laboratory in your place at ten o'clock."
"I will let you go down wit/s me," said
Ralph, smiling; "won't that do as well?
We shall both see the result together, then,
and I can explain-"

But Nina shook her head, interrupting
him impatiently.
"That is not what I want!" she said. "I
want the gratification of seeing it first. You
don't understand how I feel about it. It is
childish, I dare say, but you ought to have
learned by this time how much of the child
there is still in me."
"I hope there always will be," said Ralph.
He was snificiently in love to find it very
pleasant to humor this pretty, capricious ty-
rant. "Of course, you can go if you like,"
he said. "I'll stay here or in the drawing-
room, until you come back." He took out
his watch and glanced at it in the faint moon-
light. "It wants a few minutes of ten now,"
he said.
"Then I will go," said Nina. She was as-
tonished at the feeling that came over her as
she uttered those simple words. It was the
strange, subtle sensation of one who is con-
scious of having taken an irrevocable step-
such a sensation as comes to all save the
most obtuse at certain important and critical
moments of life, when our own words or our
own acts erect a barrier between the past
and the future which no after-effort can re-
move. It was under the influence of this
feeling that she turned suddenly to Ralph
"Don't think hardly of me, dear," she said.
"I don't mean to distress or pain you! I
love you better than anybody else in the
world, and I would do any thing to serve you,
any thing to-to atone for my folly and self-
ishness I But there may be only one way.
Don't blame me if I take that."
"Nina, what are you talking about?"
said Ralph. He did not understand the drift
or meaning of her words at all. She only
confused and puzzled him by these chameleon
changes of mood. "I am not likely to blame
you for any thing unless you make yourself
sick. I think you must have a fever. I
told you some time ago that it would be bet-
ter for you to go to bed than to stay out in
this siight-air. I am not sure that there is
not some malaria lurking in it."
"It does not matter if there is," said
Nina, with a faint smile. "Good-uiight."
"Of course, you'll find me here when you
come back from the laboratory,~~ said he,
rather surprised at the quick, passionate kiss
she gave him.
"Shall I?" she said, rather absently, and,
turning away, went down the terrace-steps.

35


NINA'S ATONEMENT.

NINA'S ATONEMENT.

Ralph stood at the head of them, watching
the slender, white-clad figure, as it walked
slowly along the garden-path below. Even
through his obtuseness, a sudden chill of un.
easy foreboding struck, when it vanished.
"By Jove, this doesn't seem exactly the right
kind of thing!" he said, half aloud. "Per-
haps I had better follow her, after all." He
laughed the next minute, however, and, taking
a cigar from his pocket, struck a match and
lighted it. "Am I getting nervous, too I'"
he said. "Nina must have infected me. It
would be a shabby kind of trick to follow her
when she was so anxious to see the experi-
ments first. Poor little darling! "-he laughed
again-" she won't understand much about
them."
Then he put his hands in his coat-pockets,
and, with his cigar in his mouth, began to
pace to and fro along the terrace It was
harder on him-this waiting to see the result
of his long-cherished idea-than any onewould
have imagined from the quietness with which
he bore it. But, in little or in great, Ralph
had never hesitated over a sacrifice for Nina.
He would not have hesitated over the greatest
of all sacrifices, if he had once suspected that
it was needed. It was merely a caprice, he
thought-this fancy to go down to the labo-
~atory-but it afforded him real and sensible
pleasure to deny himself in order to gratify
it. Pacing there in the faint, level moonlight,
he thought moreof her than of his chemistry.
The spirit of her last, self-reproachful words
seemed to come back to him. "My darling!"
he said, with a sudden rush of passionate ten-
derness. He longed to take her into his arms,
and answer her with loving words, as he had
not answered her when she had spoken.
After a while, the consciousness came to
him that she had been gone some time. He
looked at his watch. The hands pointed to
half-past ten. He began to feel impatient,
and to wonder what she had found so inter-
esting in the experiments. One or two more
turns along the terrace - then restlessness
prevailed, and he walked toward the steps.
As he approached, a dark figure emerged
from one of the garden-paths, and quickly
ascended them. The moon sunk below the
horizon at that moment, but the stars gave
light enough for Ralph to recognize Martin.
dale.
As Nina hastened through the garden to

the laboratory, her thoughts began to clear,
her instinct to resolve itself into certainty.
Now that she was alone, she did not hesitate
to face the indefinite fear which she had
thrust froni her when Ralph was by, at which
she had scarcely dared to look, lest horror
should overpower judgment, and lead to harm
instead of good. Even yet her idea of wl&amp;at
she feared was of necessity vague; but there
are some things that gain rather than lose
terror by vagueness, and this was one of'them.
Facing it, as she did, with a bravery that sur-
prised herself, one grim certainty stood out
darkly and clearly through all the mystery-
the certainty that Martindale's invitation to
Ralph meant that which is best expressed in
two short but significant words-foul play!
Foul play of what kind, or to be accomplished
in what manner, Nina did not know. She was
only conscious in every fibre of the warning
which Nature sometimes gives in, times of
danger; she only knew that all which she had
felt in the afternoon rushed back on her
now, intensified~ a hundred-fold. Of course,
her interview with Martindale had much to
do with this. She could not forget his reek.
less passion, nor his almost menacing deter-
mination. She could still less forget his look
and tone when he warned her that she might
"work harm" to Ralph by staying, nor fail
to connect them with the false pretext by
which he strove to draw the latter to the
laboratory.
If it be asked how she knew that it was a
false pretext, it can only be answered that
she knew it as she had known from the first
that Ralph's idea was wholly impracticable,
and that Martindale had made of the amateur
chemist's hopes and expectations mere tools
to serve his own interest. That much, sa-
gaeity or instinct had told her a month be-
fore. The deception of to-night, thei-efore,
was a sufficiently plain sequence. As for the
sinister motive which was supposed to lurk
behind this deception, it can at least be said
for her that she had no inconsiderable foun-
dation on which to build suspicion. in these
two weeks of struggle, she had learned some-
thing of the man with whom she had so un-
successfully " amused herself;" she had gained
an idea, at least, of how little he was likely
to halt at half measures, or to heed any ob-
stacle in the path of his desire.
Feeling oil this, her first instinctive im-
pulse had been to keep Ralph from the lab-

oratory and the danger which might be await-
ing him there. But, having gained this point,
her next step was by no means elear~ What
she was to do apart from the one important
Item of gaining time, and judgment for her-
self of Martindale's mood and intention, she
did not know. Certainly the prospect was
not encouraging. She knew that all hope of
influencing him by entreaty or defiance was
useless. She had tested both too often not
to be assured of that. But, if the worst came
to the worst, she held one trump-card which
she had girded up her strength to play. If
it were a question of risking Ralph's life, or
of eloping with Martindale, she meant to
elope with the latter. That was what the
last passionate words which had puzzled Wy-
verne had meant. In truth, a reckless yet
awful sense of powerlessness had come over
the girl. Why should she struggle any longer
against the fate which she had brought on
herself? Why should she endeavor to resist
the man who let no barrier stand before his
impetuous purpose? "It is my own fault,"
she murmured; "I loosed the dam-I have
no right to complain that the torrent sweeps
me away. But it must not harm Ralph!
Whatever happens, Ralph must not be
harmed!"
When she came in sight of the pavilion,
and saw a light burning through the small
panes of its old-fashioned lattice, she paused
and looked at her watch bithe faint lustre of
the sinking moon. It was exactly ten o'clock.
She was just in time; and yet-faee to face
with what she had undertaken -her heart
seemed to die away within her. She shrank
with absolute terror from meeting Martindale.
She felt impelled togo back and tell everything
to Ralph. One consideration, however, was
strong enough to deter her from this: if she
were right in what she suspected, there would
be no means of putting Ralph suffleicutly on
his guard to avoid danger. "How can I tell
in what shape it might come?" she thought.
Martindale's intimate knowledge of chemistry
seemed to endow him with strange and ter-
rible power over human life. Apart from her
vague and somewhat fantastic terrors, Nina
knew that the mere elements of this science
contain much which can be turned to fearful
purpose by a keen brain and an unscrupulous
hand.
It was too late to turn back, therefore-
too late in this, as in every thing else! That

was what she thought, as she went on slowly
-along the dewy paths, past the clinging
roses and a great bed of lilies that filled the
summer night with fragrance - until she
gained the pavilion steps. There she paused
again. Her heart was beating as if it would
suffocate her; her hands were burning, yet
she felt herself shiver from head to foot.
What was the meaning of it? "Am I going
to be ill?" she thought, pressing her hands
to her temples. She did not know that the
nervous tension and excitement of weeks had
reached its supreme height in the stormy
scene of the afternoon, and the terror of the
night. Standing there, she looked up at the
great starry dome arching overhead; at the
house with its gabled roof cutting sharply
against the steel-blue sky; at the dark, silent
garden, with its wealth of unseen perfume.
Familiar as the whole scene was, she felt as
if she were looking at it from the farther side
of a great gulf; as if the ties which bound
her to Wyverne were already severed. "Home
of yours it will never be again!" a voice
seemed to say. "As you have sowed, so must
you reap! Go forth to the world for which
you have longed, with a man for whom you
have neither trust nor love!"
After a while she remembered that every
minute of time was precious, that Ralph
would be impatient, that whatever was to be
done must be done at once. Although the
night was warm, the pavilion-door was closed.
Forcing herself, by a strong effort, she laid
her hand on the lock. It yielded readily to
her touch, and, opening the door, she stepped
within the laboratory.
Her first sensation was one of surprise;
her next, of inexpressible relief. Martin-
dale was not there. Her glance swept round
the laboratory in a second, and took in ~the
fact. There was every sign of his recent
presence, however. A lamp was burning on
a table covered with chemical apparatus-
retorts, tubes, receivers, a host, of things of
which she did not even know the names.
Having closed the door, 'Nina paused and
looked at them-looked with surprise and
doubt. Were those prepared for flalph's ex-
periments ? After all, had she suspected
Martindale unjustly? Or - or was there a
trap under all this specious and fair-seeming
arrangement? It was significant of the dis-
trust with which her mind was filled, that
she should have asked this question, for cer-

36

9'

37


NINA'S ATONEMENT.

NINA'S ATONEMENT.

thinly it would never have occurred to any
one who entered the laboratory without preju-
dice, or suspicion of foul play.
Despite the apparent want of any thing to
justify her high-wrought fears, the obstinate
sense of danger still remained with Nina.
She had scarcely closed the door, before a
sudden sense of faintness came over her. It
was a difi~rent sensation from that which she
had felt outside; but she took it to be an ef-
feet from the same cause, and, although it
did not rouse any fear for herself, it quickened
her misgivings for Ralph. "I am going to
be ill," she thought, "but I must see-I
must know-what this means. There
something wrong. The very silence seems
sinister!"
It truly did. If the speaker had known
any thing of the menacing quiet which pre.
cedes a gunpowder explosion, she might have
likened the stillness to that-it seemed so
ominous of evil. The air was full of an in.
definable oppression, which made her gasp
for breath as she crossed the floor to the
table, and began to scan the apparatus -~
searching, she scarcely knew for what. This,
however, was only the work of a moment.
Before the second-hand of her watch could
have made a quarter of its circuit, a more
deadly and unutterable faintness than any
she had felt before, rushed over her Her
head began to swim, a mist rose before her
eyes, the tubes and glass retorts were sud-
denly blurred out. The awful oppression
closed upon her. She made a wild struggle
for breath: one hand went to her throat; the
other grasped instinctively the corner of the
table. Thus preserved from falling, she stood
for an instant swaying like a reed, or rather
like one around whom the black darkness of
unconsciousness begins, to close. "Am I
going to faint?" she thought. After all her
suspicions, no glimpse of the horrible truth
came to her when she was thus face to face
with it. She turned with a vague idea of
reaching and opening the nearest casement.
Instinct told her that there was ~hlvation in
the freSh air so carefully shut from the lab-
oratory. But the poisonous fumes had done
their work. Two-three-blind, faltering
steps she made-
Then came a heavy fall!
"Ralph!" exclaimed Martindale, starting
violently as he recognized the figure which

met him in the starlight. "Ralph! Is it-is
it possible this is you?"
"Of course it is I," said Ralph. "Who
else should it be? Arc you looking for me?
I was just coming down to the laboratory."
"Just coming down to the laboratory!"
repeated the other. If the light had not been
so dim, Ralph would have seen that he was
white to the very lips. "I-I thought you
had gone down," he said, after a minute.
"You thought I had gone down 1" re-
peated Ralph, in turn-not a little surprised.
"Why, where did you come from? Have
you not been at the laboratory yourself?"
"Not-not for some time 1" answered
Martindale, lifting his hand and loosening the
tie of his cravat. "I finished some tests," he
went on, "and walked out into the garden.
I could not see the laboratory, but I-I was
sure I heard the door open and shut a little
while ago."
"Tt is very probable you did,' said Ralph,
carelessly. "Nina went down about half an
hour since. But I don't at all understand!
You told me that I should find you-"
A grasp on his arm, the like of which he
had never felt before, stopped the words on
his lips. Even in the starlight he saw now
the ghastly pallor of the face near his own;
and the first sound of the voice, that had no
cadence of its natural tone in it, startled hint
beyond all measure.
"Who did you say had gone there?" Mar-
tindale demanded.
"Nina," answered Ralph. He was filled
with sudden, intangible alarm. "Good Heav-
ens! Martindale, is-is any thing the mat-
ter?"
"Nina!" repeated Martindale-it was not
a word, but a note qf horror, such as Wyverne
never forgot-" Nh~a 1" He hurled the other
from him. "Did you nsk what was the mat-
ter?" he cried, half madly, half sternly. "You
have sent her into a laboratoryfihledwith poison.
ous gas!"
"Martindale!" said Ralph. If the heav-
ens had fallen upon him he could not have
been more astounded; he could scarcely have
understood less of what he heard. He was
hardly eon~cious of the recoil from Martin-
dale's grasp. The next moment, however, the
latter had darted down the terrace-steps, and
was speeding along the garden-path which
led to the pavilion.
Instantly Ralph followed. The meaning

of those last, terrible words came to him now
-at least their meaning with regard to Nina.
Beyond that his mind did not go. It did not
nnonr to him, at such a moment, to question
why the laboratory had been full of poisonous
gas. It was enough that she had entered such
a place, and that ncr safety-her very life-
was in horrible jeopardy.
lt is unnecessary to say that no word was
exchanged between the two breathless run-
ners. Only the quick fall of their flying feet
smote on the stillness of the starlit night
until they gained the laboratory, where Mar.
tindale-being in advance-dashed open the
door and rushed in.
He was only invisible a moment. By the
time Ralph reached the steps he appeared
again in the door-staggcring like a drunken
man-but bearing Nina in his arms.
"Give her to me!" said Wyverne, hoarse.
ly. He took the slender form-heavy now
with the leaden weight of inert matter-and
laid it down on the very spot where she had
stood so short a time before, taking her last
look of the fair earth. She might bc only un-
conscious-stupefied, narcotized-he thought;
but hope died within him when he felt the
brow, the lips, the wrist-lastly, the silent
heart-without finding one token of respira-
tion or throb of life.
Yet, when Martindale brought the neces-
sary chemical agents and means for restoring
consciousness, he went eagerly to work with
them. Application after application was
made, test after test failed. It was a strange
scene. The lamp, which had been brought
from the laboratory, flung its vivid glow over
the beautiful face set in the stillness of death;
the quiet stars gazed down on the two men
kneeling beside it in the vain attempt to re-
store that which had fled forever. The most
unscientific looker-on might have told them
that all effort was hopeless, that no power of
science could recall the spark of life to the
fair clay it had animated; but still, with
feverish, passionate energy they persevered,
though no restorative brought any flush of
life to the white skin, no sigh of returning
vitality to the lips, no flutter to the fallen lids.
This could not continue, however. After
a while, the grim truth came home to them.
They could no longer close their eyes to the
fact that this which they were fighting was
not unconsciousness, but death-death which
holds as relentlessly its fairest as its meanest

39

prize. Their eyes met for a moment with the
blankness of despair, At that instant, there
was no other thought ia the mind of either.
Martindale rose slowly-swayingly-to his
feet. Ralph, still kneeling by the dead girl,
looked up at him.
"There is no hope!" he said,
His voice was strangely quiet. In truth,
the shook had been so great that, for the
time, sensation was dead. An overmastering
blow must always do one of two things-stun
or craze. This had stunned him.
"None!" Martindale answered. His tongue
seemed to cleave to the roof of his mouth; he
could scarcely articulate. "I knew that when
I found her," he said. "The gas in there"
-he nodded toward the laboratory-" would
have killed an army."
"How did it come to be there?" asked
Ralph.
Even yet suspicion had not occurred to
him. He scarcely remembered the words
Martindale had spoken on the terrace. Every
thing had merged for him in the horrible
thought of Nina's danger.
"Have you not guessed that?" asked the
other. To him, also, a strange, stunned,
reckless feeling came. Every thing had gone
wrong. His great throw had brought ruin
instead of fortune. Instead of his rival, it
was the woman he loved who lay dead at his
feet. "She suspected this, and came in your
place," he said. "I generated the gas for
you!"
"For me?"
For a minute Ralph could say no more
than that. Then he sprung to his feet-pale,
horror-stricken, yet terrible in the aspect that
transformed his face, in the gleam that came
into his eyes.
"If you had not been blind, you might
have seen long ago that I loved her-that I
stayed here only to win her!" Martindale
said, as they faced each other in the dim, un.
certain light. "I swore to stop your mar-
riage at any cost," he added, after a minute-
a minute broken by no sound. "I have been
as good as my word-I have stopped it, you
see."
"Are you mad?" said Ralph. His own
mother could ~seareely have recognized the
voice in which he spoke as his own. "Do
you know that, if this is true, ~'ou will not live
long enough to take her name on your lips
again?"

38

9


40                           NINA'S ATONEMENT.
Martindale laughed-the faint, scornful Ralph made one quick, tiger-like spring
sound breaking the silence with ghastly Big- forward, but he was too late. In the throat
nificance. There was a glitter in his eye, as on which his fingers closed the death-rattle
ominous as the lurid glow that had conic to had already sounded. With one mocking
Ralph's.                                smile, the soul fled. To the baffled avenger
"Do you think I will ask your leave when remained only that faint, subtle odor of bitter
to die?" he demanded. Then he put his almonds which bctrays the swiftest and dead.
hand to his lips.                       liest poison known to chemistry.

HUGH'S VENDETTA.

CHAPTER I.
"NTARGARET," said Hugh Churchill, as
..LVJ.. he came abruptly into his sister's
room one morning, "who do you suppose is
dead?"
The address was startling enough in it-
self, but there was a suppressed excitement
in the speaker's face, and a suppressed tone of
awe in his voice, that made Margaret Churchill
turn pale as she looked up from her sewing
in quick alarm.
"Indeed I cannot tell, Hugh," she said.
"Not-not anybody I care about, surely?"
"Care about!" repeated her brother.
"Not unless you care about knowing that he
has gone to his deserts in another and-a
hotter world! That is all the concern I feel
in Henry Tyrrell's death, I am sure."
"Henry Tyrrell! Is he dead 1'."
"He dropped down with a fit of apoplexy
an hour ago."
"Where?"
"On the street. I was sitting in Morri-
son's office about ten o'clock, and chanced to
see him walk past, looking as usual; yet,
scarcely five minutes later, a boy rushed in
saying that Mr. Tyrrell had just fallen down
dead. Of course, we ran out at once. He
was not dead, however; so we carried him
into the office, and sent for the doctors at
once. They were all there in no time, but
they could do nothing for him, and he has
just died."
His voice sank a little over the last words,
* and a look of horror came into Margaret
Churchill's face.
"Died like that! 0 Hugh! how tern-
*

ble! Surely he said something-surely he
made some reparation for such aii awful
life!"
11cr brother laughed, not mirthfully.
"Do you believe in death-bed atoneinents,
Madge? I confess I don't, and I doubt if
Tyrrell did, either. He recovered his senses
toward the last, but ho only uttered two
names. The first was his son's-"
"And the other?"
The young man's voice deepened, and a
change came over his face that hardened and
altered it, as he answered gravely, almost
sternly:
"The other was-our father's I
Margaret looked up, her awe-struck eyes
meeting his, and for a moment neither spoke.
At last it was the girl's voice that said:
"God forgive him!"
Low as the words were, they reached
Hugh Churchill's ears, and brought a dark
cloud over his face.
"So that is your idea of Christianity, is
it, Madge?" be asked, bitterly. "A nice
place you and the like of you would make of
heaven-ay, and of earth? too! if 1 believed
that a, few prayers or good works at the
eleventh hour could atone for Henry Tyrrell's
half a century of wrong-doing, I would fling
conscience to the winds, and live as he did-
perhaps die as he died, too. But that would
make no difference in your libertil creed. I
don't pretend to decide whether or not such
opinions are orthodox, but of all the texts in
Holy Writ I like best the one which says that
what a man sows the same shall he reap,
here and hereafter."
Margaret did not answer. Her thoughts,

TRE END.

40


42             HUGH'S VENDETTA.

in@ed, seemed to have wandered from her
brother's speech, and gone back to what he
had said before. At least, when he finished,
she went on with the other train of thought.
"And he spoke of papa. 0 Hugh! who
can tell what he was thinking? I wonder
was it the sight of you that brought back the
past? Did he see you at all?"
"He saw me as plainly as you see me
now, ~ her brother answered. "Indeed, I
doubt if he saw any one else. I was stand-
ing at the foot of the bed, and, when he
opened his eyes, they rested full on my face.
And with such a look! Madge, it was awful!
I don't think I shall ever forget it. It was
so solemn and yet so defiant, as itT he had
said, 'So you are here to see the end!' My
God, what an end! Madge "-and his voice
grew so tender that she knew of whom he
was going to speak-" you have heard how
bravely and peacefully our father died? Well,
even in this world, there is such a thing as
retribution. I thought that, if I thought
nothing else, as I stood by the death-bed of
the man who killed him."
Margaret thought it, too, as the dainty
muslin she was hemming fell from her lap to
the floor unheeded. She, too, remembered
all that she had heard of the father whose
existence had faded so early out of her own
-of his stainless life and honorable death,
as contrasted with the life and death of the
man. who had murdered him. For even the
world, usually so lenient in such matters,
held Henry Tyrrell as guilty of the blood of
Albert Churchill as if lie had stabbed him
unawares in the darkness of the night. It is
true that the affair had taken the form of a
duel, but it had been prefaced by the most un-
merited insult and there had been enough of
unfairness in its actual arrangement to set a
black mark on the survivor to the day of his
death.
This death caused a deep and wide-spread
sensation in the community where it occurred.
Unpopular as he was, Henry Tyrrell had been
a man of great wealth, and consequently of
great influence; hence his death could not be
other than an event of importance. Nobody
regretted him; nobody gave a tear, or even so
much ~as a sigh, to his memory-but still
everybody felt interested in the matter, as
people will feel when there is a million or two
of property in questioiii. The dead man's
wife had preceded him long before to the

HUGH'S 1

other world; his only son was absent; so
there was not a single kindred face around the
deathbed where Hugh Churchill had stood,
and this in itself is always pathetic, even
when such a man as Henry Tyrrell is con-
cerned. With regard to his heir and successor,
little was known. From some cause or other,
young Tyrrell had never fancied his native
place, and ever since he attained to man's es-
tate his visits there had been few and far be-
tween. People said that the father and son did
not "get on" very well, but this was mere
conjecture; for their intercourse, as far as the
world knew, had always been cordial in the
extreme, and, those who knew best said, even
warmly affectionate.
Society at large, however, was rather in-
credulous of this, and many curious glances
were bent on Roland Tyrrell as he stood by
his father's grave and watched the clods of
earth falling heavily upon the coffin. He
looked very pale-ghastly pale, in fact-as
everybody observed; but he was resolutely
composed. Not a tear sprang into the large
dark eyes bent steadfastly downward, not a
quiver came to the sternly-compressed lips.
"He hardly assumes a decent appearance of
grief!" said the majority of lookers-on, indig-
nantly. But there were others whose gaze
pierced below the surface, and more then one
of these felt strangely touched by the mute
suffering stamped on the young man's face.
They, in turn, wondered a little, and said to
each other, "Strange he should grieve so
much for such a father!" But they looked at
him with respectful sympathywatching him as
he turned at last from the newly-heaped pile
of earth, as he crossed the church-yard, pass-
ing directly by the spot where Albert Church-
ill had lain for many years, and drove away
alone to his desolate home.
A few days after the funeral, Hugh and
Margaret Churchill were the recipients of an
unexpected and startling surprise. A letter
from the lawyer of the late Mr. Tyrrell for-
mally notified them that the sum of fifty thou.
sand dollars, having been bequeathed them
by the will of the deceased, had been placed
to their credit by his executor, and awaited
their orders. After the first shock of amaze-
me~1t-of absolutely incredulous surprise-
was over, it would be hard to say with how
much of burning indignation this information
was received by one, at least, of the parties
concerned. For a time Hugh's rage was al-

most inarticulate-then it broke forth beyond
all bounds.
"Was the old villain mad, or was it only
the devil's own malice which made him leave
us such a posthumous insult?'~ he cried, ad-
dressing Margaret, who sat with her eyes fixed
on the letter' which contained this strange
and apparently incomprehensible intelligence.
"My God! if he was only alive, that I might
fling it back to him with words such as he
should never forget! Did he think that we
are likely to accept a gift from him, or did he
only mean to jeer us from his grave with our
poverty and need? May his money perish
with him, and may the eternal curse of God-"
"0 Hugh!" said Margaret, and for once
her voice had something of authority in it-
"0 Hugh, for Heaven's sake, hush! Is Hen-
ry Tyrrell's insult-granting that he meant it
as an insult-worth such passion as this?
Remember-he is dead!"
"Yes" said her brother, bitterly, "but
his hatred, and the acts born of his hatred,
did not die with him! Think of all we owe
him, Margaret-think of it for one moment!
First and greatest, the death of our father;
after that, andfrom that, what a tiain ofills!
He-our father-was on the high-road to
fortune, after years of effort, and, had lie
lived one year long~ir, he would have made
his wife and children independent of the
world. As it was-cut off before one of his
schemes had reached maturity-you know the
bitter poverty which followed, the privations
which ground us to the earth, and under which
our mother died; you know what a hard strug-
gle I have had, how my life has been marred
and its best hopes blasted. All of this we
owe to Henry Tyrrell. And now-now in his
very grave-he sends one crowning insult, one
last injury, and lie is so far beyond the reach
of my arm that I can do nothing save appeal
to God to judge between me and him!"
"God has judged," said Margaret, in a
low tone. "Is not that enough? Hugh- t
stop and consider. Perhaps even Henry
Tyrrell may have known remorse and meant r
this as-las a reparation."               V
~~Margaret!~~ r
"Don't misunderstand me," said she, d
quietly. "Don't think that I would accept n
it sooner than yourself. But why regard it ii
in a light which he-the dead man-never ii
may have meant?" o
"I would stake my existence that he u

49

VENDETTA.                            48
meant it!" Hugh said, fiercely. "And 1
would stake it, also, that his son-a worthy
son of such a father-was only too glad to
fulfil his bequest, and thus safely to wound
and sting us! But, thank God!" cried the
young man, with quickening eyes, "lie is
alive, and can be held to an account."
"Hugh, arc you mad?" demanded Mar-
garet, turning pale as she looked at his ex.
cited face. "What possible reason have you
to talk like this 1' What has Roland Tyrrell
to do with the acts of his father?"
"He has every thing to do with them,"
answered Hugh, coldly. "He is his father's
representative, and as such I shall hold him.
Don't be afraid that I will make a fool of my.
self," he went on, impatiently, as he met her
eyes, full of anxious appeal. "The time has
not yet come for a Tyrrell and a Churchill to
reckon up scores. But, sooner or later, it
wilt come, and then I shall hold him to a
stern account. Do you remember the old
Corsican custom of the vendetta? It was not
a bad idea that, when one generation had
suffered a wrong, another should avenge it.
Well, 1 have sworn a vendetta against all of
Henry Tyrrell's blood, and I will never forget
or forsake it so long as God gives me life?"
"It was a custom and an idea worthy of
heathens-not of Christians," said Margaret.
"So be it," answered her brother. "All
the same, it is mine. Now give me some
pens and paper, that I may answer this law-
yer at once."
The lawyer was answered-in what spirit
t is not difficult to imagine-and there Hugh
supposed that the matter would end. It was
iot long, however, before he learned the error
if this opinion. Coming home from work one
~vening-he was an engineer, in the employ
a mining company-he met Roland Tyrrell
t the gate of the pretty little cottage where
~[argaret and himself lived. Advancing from
)pposity directions, the two men came face
o face exactly at this spot.
Through the soft autumn dusk Hugh had
recognized the tall figure, moving toward him
rith a quick, decisive tread, and he could not
strain an emotion of involuntary surprise. It
id not occur to him for a second that Tyrrell
iight wish to see 1dm, and it chanced that,
a order to be near the mines, the cottage in
rhich the Churehills lived was verymuch out
f the large town of Ridgeford, and in a sub-
rb chiefly inhabited by the manufacturing


44                  HUGH'S VENDETTA.

HUGH'S VENDETTA.                  45

and mining class-for, after its mines, its
mills were the great boast of Ridgeford.
They were very proud, these young people,
and one form of their pride had ever been to
wear their poverty as openly and bravely* as
other people make a point of wearing wealth.
Hugh would have scorned himself if he had
thought thathe took sufficient interest in Ro-
land Tyrrell to wonder what he was doing in
such a quarter at such an hour; but, all the
same, he felt surprised to see him.
This surprise was considerably augmented
when-pausing as they met-Mr. Tyrrell quiet-
ly lifted his hat and spoke:
"This is Mr. Churchill, is it not?" Then,
as Hugh assented, "Excuse the liberty ~ take
in introducing myself, but I am Roland Tyr.
rell, and I was on my way to see you. This
is your house, is it not?"
"This is my house," answered Hugh, in
whose voice coldness and amazement seemed
struggling for mastery. "But I confess, Mr.
Tyrrell, that I am not at all prepared for the
honor which you do me."
"That is very likely," said Tyrrell, smil-
ing slightly, though gravely. "But I have
j           something that I must say to you, and, if you
will allow me, I should prefer to say it under
your own
What could Hugh reply to this? Plainly
nothing, if he desired to keep within the
bounds of ordinary civility; and being, with
all his faults, a gentleman, the young fellow
did desire that whatever he felt should be
evinced, and whatever he had to do should
be done, according to the letter of that cour-
tesy which especially~ distinguishes the gentle-
man from the churl. He bowed, therefore,
though very coldly, and opened the gate for
his unwelcome visitor.
"Fray walk in," he said.
The other complied, and they walked to-
gether up the short path which led to the
door where no latch-key was needed, for it
stood open to the dying beauty of the Octo-
ber day, and showed the bright llleker of a
wood-fire from a room within. Sweet and
home-like it looked-a contrast, indeed, to
the stately, gloomy house where Roland Tyr.
rell lived alone-and, as they entered the
hall, a figure started up from a low chair in
front of the sparkling blaze on the parlor-
hearth
"Is that you, Hugh?" asked a pleasant
voice. "I had a fire made because I thought

it would look cheerful, and, do you know, 1
believe I have been half asleep."
"My sister, Mr. Tyrrell," said Hugh, in a
tone of ice.
The firelight was pretty and soft with its
capricious glow, but it was not very bright,
and the dusk was deep in the little parlor, so
nobody saw much of the surprise which Mar.
garet Churchill must have felt. One uncon-
trollable start she gave, but that was all, and
her only welcome to this strange guest was a
silent bow.
Then they sat down - Margaret in the
shade-and Hugh, who was ever impetuous,
plunged at once to the point.
"I must repeat that I am at a loss to
imagine what you can have to say that has
gained me, this visit, Mr. Tyrrell."
"Are you?" said Mr. Tyrrell, in a tone
of some surprise. "Then you must have for-
gotten very soon a communication which you
received from my lawyer the other day; or
else you must consider me very careless of
my father's solemnly.expressed desire if you
think I could rest satisfied with the decision
you returned to him."
Hugh made an impatient gesture.
"That matter was ended when I answered
your lawyer's letter," he said. "If you have
come here to reopen it in any manner, you
have given yourself a great deal of useless
trouble."
"You mean that you are determined to
refuse the bequest of a man who, however
deeply he may have wronged you, has passed
beyond the reach of your resentment now?"
"I mean," answered Hugh, almost fierce.
ly, "that if the man who bequeathed this in.
suit to those whom he has 59 deeply injured,
were only alive, I would fling it scornfully
into his teeth. Since that is impossible, I
cast it back into the hands ofthose to whom
he delegated this last office of hatred, and"
his voice fairly trembled with passion here-
"bid them take heed how they come to press
the offer of that which has been once re-
jected."
Leaning forward in the firelight, Roland
Tyrrell fastened his dark eyes keenly on the
kindling face before him. At those last
words of menace, a white hand stole out of
the dusky shadows and laid itself with a gen-
tle, warning touch on Hu~h's shoulder. Tyr.
rell's gaze fell for a moment on this before
he spoke. Then he said, as quietly as ever:

"I judged from your letter that you tool
some such view of my father's bequest ai
this, and I came prepared to find you fai
from moderate in feeling oi~ expression. I see
you wonder wky I came" (the question had
risen plainly to Hugh's eyes). "Simply for
this: to do an act of justice to the dead.
You say that, in leaving you a legacy, my
father meant to leave you a posthumous in-
suIt. In this you wrong him as much as it
is in the power of one man to wrong another.
For many years before his death he bore about
a continually augmenting sense of the great
injury he once did you. It poisoned his life
so entirely that his only comfort rested in
the thought of some reparation, which, how.
ever inadequate it might be, would at least
serve to mark his great remorse and great
desire to make atonement. He knew that,
besides other suffering, his act had entailed
great pecuniary privation upon you, and this,
at least, he wished to remove. During his
life he was aware that you would accept no
service at his hands, but he trusted that, after
his death, you, who call yourself a Christian
man, would not refuse the poor and weak
atonement which he strove to make. I, his
son-I, who witnessed more of his suffering
than any other, save his Maker-I ask you
now if you dare to do this?"
The grave, steadfast voice, with a ring of
pathos in it so slight that a dull ear would
not have caught it, had a certain accent of
command as it asked the last question-as it
seemed to plead for that poor soul gone,
"with all its errors thick upon it," to the
judgment-seat of God. But it pleaded to
deaf ears as far as Hugh Churchill was con-
cerned. He had listened coldly; he spoke,
if possible, more coldly still:
"Once more I repeat that you waste your
time when you speak on this subject, Mr.
Tyrrell. I grant the truth 'and sincerity of
all you say, but my decision is unalterably
fixed. An angel sent from high Heaven
could not make me consent to accept the
least favor or benefit from your father, or
from any of his name and blood. I must beg
you to accept this as final.,!'
He rose as he spoke, thus signifying that
the interview was at an end; but, to his sur-
prise, Roland Tyrrell did not rise also. He
quietly kept his seat, still leaning slightly
forward, with his eyes turned toward that
region of dim shadow where Margaret sat,
4

like a faint, suggestive outline of a woman's
form.
"You forget that your decision is not the
only one, Mr. Churchill," he said, at length.
"Your sister is of legal age, is she not? I
have yet to hear whether she rejects my fa-
ther's reparation as unequivocally as you
have done."
"I spoke for my sister as well as for my.
self," Hugh answered, haughtily. "Margaret
is here, however. If she desires, she can
speak for herself."
"I don't desire it, Hugh," said Margaret's
voice, trembling softly out of the shadows.
"I would rather you spoke for me."
"I have spoken," said Hugh, laconically.
"But pardon me if I ask, is this right?"
said Tyrrell, for the first time directly ad-
dressing Margaret. "You should think and
act for yourself-not follow blindly your
brother's example. I can scarcely think that
you-a woman-are as utterly without com-
passion for the sufferings and atonement of
a most unhappy man as he seems to be."
"My sister needs no schooling in her
duty, sir," said Hugh, enraged at this bold-
ness.-" Margaret, speak for yourself, and
satisfy Mr. Tyrrell that, on a point of honor,
we Churchills always think alike." ~
The young autocrat uttered this imperi-
ously, but for a moment no answer was re-
turned. The flickering play of the firelight
rose and fell many times before Margaret
spoke from her nook of shadows - spnke
gravely, yet very gently:
"I think Hugh is quite right, Mr. Tyrrell,
in declining to accept the bequest of which
you speak. Apart from his influence, I am
sure that it would never have occurred to me
for a moment to accept any obligation-above
all, such an obligation-from the hand that
shed my father's blood. But "-her voice
seemed to gather strength here-" I think
,Hugh is very wrong in his great bitterness
of feeling, and I, having heard and believed
all, that you said of his remorse, would be
glad if y~ur father stood here this moment,
to learn ~ow fully and freely one Churchill,
at least, forgives the crime ho committed and
the wrong he wrought."
There was a minute's sil~nce after these
words were uttered. Indeed, it would be
hard to say which of her twolisteners Mar-
garet had taken most by surprise. Tyrrell,
however, recovered hiss powes of speech and


HUGH'S VENDETTA.

action first. While Hugh still glared in
amazement at his sister, he rose and went
over to her side. She certainly had not
meant to give him her hand, but he took it
in his own, nevertheless.
"God bless you!" he said, in a voice that
quivered with emotion. "You have spoken
as a brave, generous woman should speak,
and I-I shall never cease to be grateful to
you!"
More than this he could not say, even if
he had desired to do so, for Hugh interfered,
scornfully and coldly:
"My sister is a woman, as you remark,
Mr. Tyrrell, and, after the fashion of her sex,
she has introduced, a purely irrelevant ques-
tion into a matter of business. Since we
have both agreed in declining your father's
legacy, however, I believe there is nothing
more to say."
This time Roland Tyrrell took the hint so
curtly given. He released Margaret's hand,
and, with a parting bow to her, passed out
of the room. But at the door of the cottage
.....whither Hugh had followed him-he paused.
"Is there any reason, Mr. Churchill" he
said, frankly and kindly, "why the unfortu-
nate enmity of our fathers should be revived
and perpetuated in the second generation?
Is there any reason why we should hold aloof
for the sake of the sins or errors of others?
I confess that it would make me very happy
to bury the miserable past, and to greet you
as a friend."
As he spoke, he extended his hand, with
a cordial grace which few men could have re-
sisted, but Hugh Churchill drew haughtily
back.
"It is very magnanimous in you, Mr. Tyr-
rell, to be willing to hury a past that has
never injured you," he said. "But I am not
yet in a position to meet your generosity on
equal ground. When I have paid, to the ut-
termost farthing, the debt which I owe your
father, and when I have gained once more
the level from which my father was cast,
then, if you choose to offer your hand again,
I may acc~ it. Not before."
." Believe me, I am sorry," said Roland
Tyrrell, in a low tone, "and believe, also,
that you cannot readily do any thing which I
shall resent. The great wrong my father
wrought-the wrong for which I would freely
give my life to atorw-stands ever between
us like a shield, Yet, I do not think I shall

be likely to offer again the hand you have
once rejected. Pardon me now for having, in
a measure, thrust myself upon you, and-good-
evening."
He lifted his hat ceremoniously and walked
slowly~sway in the gathering dusk. Stand-
ing at the parlor-window, Margaret Churchill
saw his tall, stately figure vanish from sight
as he passed out of the gate, and took a path
which led through a d~bri8 of newly-rising
houses, to where the long lines of quiverin~
lamps marked the populous town.
CHAI'TEU II.
A GnAY, lowering sky overhead, the earth
soaked with rain underneath, and a general
air of dreariness and dampness everywhere,
was what met the eye on a chill, November
afternoon, three weeks after Roland Tyrrell's
visit to the Churchill cottage. For a week
Ridgeford had suffered from rains such as had
not been known within generations, and in
the wake of the rains had followed a most
disastrous flood. Houses had been swept
away, lives had been lost, and property to
the amount of millions damaged by the tur-
bulent violence of a stream just beyond the
town-the famous water-power that turned
its mills and made its wealth, now transCormed
from a slave into a tyrant. At last, one af-
ternoon, however, the windows of heaven
seemed to have closed, the sullen clouds still
hung heavy and dark, but the rain had ceased
for the first time in eight days; and arrayed
in a water-proof-provided also with a large
umbrella-Margaret Churchill took advantage
of the lull to set forth for some necessary
domestic purchases.
At first she thought that she would not
go far into Ridgeford, but would make her
purchases at some of the suburban shops
that lined the way. But we have most of us
known the unsatisfactory character of sub-
urban shops, and Margaret, finding exercise
pleasant after her week's confinement in the
house, could not make up her mind to stop
short of the establishments where she usually
dealt. Walking on, therefore, she soon found
herself in the heart of the town, jostling among
a throng of people on the wet pavements,
and finally talking across a familiar counter
to a familiar dealer in teas and other grocer-
ies. The man knew her well, and liked her

46


S
U)

U".
U)
U
U)
"U
CU
0
S..
U)
N
U)
U)
CU
U)
U)
U)
CU
U)
0
0
0

bright face, as every one did who came in
contact with it; so, while he took down her
orders, and tied up her bundles, he descanted
freely and fully on the great Ridgeford topic
-the terrible and all-absorbing flood. De-
spite the papers, and despite Hugh, Marga-
ret had scarcely appreciated the awful deso-
lation which had been wrought until it was
brought home to her by the many minute
particulars-the personal hardships and losses
-that go to make up the full sum of such a
public calamity. These were poured upon
her now in such stream that it was only
when a partial lull in the garrulity of her in-
formant came, that she was able to take up
her bundles and prepare to leave the shop.
As she was in the act of doing so, the pro-
prietor stepped from behind the counter to
say, by way of adieu:
~C If you have seen nothing of the floqd,
Miss Churchill, it would be worth your while
to take a look at it. You are hardly likely
ever to see such another-at least, the Lord
preserve us from its like in Ridgeford again!
If you go home by Light Street-it won't
take you very ihuch out of your way-you
can get a tolerable view of the stream and
the houses that are under water."
Margaret thanked him, and said that she
thought she would go home by Light Street.
She almost changed her mind, however, when
she came out and saw how threatening the
clouds were; but, on consideration, she found
it impossible to resist the temptation of see-
ing the flood, now that it was at its height,
so, clutching her umbrella firmly, she turned
her steps toward Light Street. It was very
much as the dealer in teas and other grocer-
ies had told her. From this rather elevated
point, she had a "tolerable view" of the
submerged quarter, and of the angry, turbid
water which had broken its bonds and done
all the mischief. But Miss Churchill was a
young lady of ambition, and, having seen
thus much, she wanted to see more. The
gloomy desolation of the sight fascinated her.
She was anxious, and determined to have
more than a mere glimpse of it.
To obtain this was-ror seemed to her-
easy enough~ By skirting around the sub-
urbs of the town, she could reach home as
safely, if not as speedily, as by following the
direct course, it must be conceded that this
was not a very prudent project, considering
the gathering gloom of the sky, the lateness

of the hour-for four o'clock is late in cloudy
November weather-and the fact that her
path would lie through half-built suburbs, in-
habited almost entirely by manufacturing
operatives. But Margaret could be wilful
sometimes, and she was wilful just now. "I'll
not have another chance," sibe' thought, with
a glance at the clouds which should have de-
terred her. Then, gathering her water-proof
closer around her, she flitted away.
In fifteen minutes; it began to rain; at
half-past four, it was pouring, torrents; at a
quarter to five, a man, i~aIking hurriedly along
with his hat pulled over his brows,'and his
coat buttoned up to his chin, in vain, defence
against the sweeping blast, came first upon
an umbrella scudding aimlessly along before
the wind, and then upon a soaked figure of a
woman standing helplessly in the midst of a
rising pooi of water. Night was, closing over
the wild scene of storm; the river, not far
off; was pouring over its rapids with a sound
like that of many Niagaras; the scattered
houses of the neighl~"orh6od scarcely showed
a light-for, in truth, they had all been for.
saken by their inhabitants-and the whore
picture was one which Roland Tyrrell was
just thinking could scarcely be matched for
complete-and it might readily prove danger-
ous-desolation, when,'to his amazement, he
stumbled upon This solitary 'woma~,' who,
lifting 'up her face, in 'the 'dying light, proved
to be Margaret Churchill. '
"Good Heavens!" he said, seizing her in-
voluntarily, "Miss Churchill! Is it you?.'?
"0 Mr. Tyrrell 1" said Margaret,'~with a
half-hysterical gasp 'of relief. Wet, bewil-
dered, almost despairing, as she had been the
moment before, she clung to him asshe might
have clung to Hugh. It was so good to have
a protector-and, in truth, few women' could
have asked a better protector than, he who
stood looking down upon her .in amazement.
"Is it you ~" he repeatedas if he could
not realize the fact. "For Heaven's sake,
what are you doing here?"
"I don't know," 'said Margaret,. still. un-
strung by the revulsion of terror an4~lief.
"I started from home this Way',". sIi~ ient
on, after a minute, "and I-I thiiik I must
have got lost. Do you know where we arc,
Mr. Tyrrell?"
"Perfectly well," answered Tyrrehl. "AVe
are close in the neighborhood. of my mills-
and a very dangerous neighborhood it is just

HUGH'S VENDETTA.


48                           HUGH'S V
now. To think of a woman here alone at
such an hour! You might have wandered
iato the flood, or fallen into the hands of
prowling ruIllans-~--Good Heaven 1 how could
you be so rash?" he broke off, almost an-
grily~
"I-I don't know," said Margaret, again
-this time penitently. "I wanted to see the
flood. It is not my fault, Mr. Tyrrell-I was
sure I could reach home this way."
"What madness I" he said. Then, in a
lower tone, "God knows where you would
have been in the morning, if I had not chanced
to stumble upon you. Come this way."
"If you will only be kind enough to show
me how to get home," she said, meekly, cling.
irig to him closely, as he hurried her along
through the storm and gathering darkness.
"I'm afraid that is impossible," he an.
swered. "We are in a different quarter alto.
gather, and you will suffer now from exposure
to such a storm. We must find a refuge as
soon as possible."
"But Hugh will be so uneasy," pleaded
Margaret.
"Then he should have taken better care
of you," was the rejoinder.
After this, nothing more was said. Tyr-
roll's decided manner bore down every thing,
and Margaret felt that indeed any refuge
would be better than the storm of howling
wind and rain which beat upon them now.
She did not ask where they were going, as
her companion half led, half carried her over
much uneven ground, and through number-
less pools of water; but she felt sure that
wherever that strong arm and gentle hand
lad her she would be safe, and with that con-
sciousness she was wise enough to be satis-
fied.
At last she heard Tyrrell say "Thank
God I" and, looking round, she saw the dark
outline of a building close at hand. The
next moment he partly released her while he
opened a door, thendrew her quickly within,
and closed ~tr behind her. The sense of relief
was almost overpowering-the Contrast be.
tween the fierce battle they had been fighting
and the refuge they had gained-and, spent
from her long effort, Margaret would assured-
ly have fallen if the same arm which had led
had not now upheld her.
"Courage I" Tyrrell said, in a tone of re-
assurance, but also of anxiety. "Don't give
way now that we are safe! Can I trust you

'ENDTTA.HUGH'S VENDETTA.

to stand alone one minute, while 1 strike a
light?"
Margaret said "Yes;" but no sooner was
the support of his arm withdrawn, than she
quietly sank down upon the floor. There she
sat, leaning her head against the wall near
which she chanced to be, while he felt about
a little, finally struck a match, and then
lighted a lamp.
By the aid of this, she saw something of
the habitation into which she had entered.
Plainly a bachelor's den, for there was a bed
in one corner, a cupboard in another, a table
covered with books and papers, a pipe and a
pair of pistols over the mantel, a kettle on
the hearth, and a curious sort of masculine
order-which is a very different thing indeed
from feminine order-in all the arrangements.
A glance at the walls and ceiling showed her
that it was one of the better class of work-
men's cottages which was thus metamor.
phosed.
Having lighted his lamp, Mr. Tyrrell's
next step was to rummage in his cupboard,
from which he brought forth a bottle and a
tumbler.
"You must take a stiff glass of brandy,
Miss Churchill," he said, bringing these up to
Margaret. "It is your o'nly hope of avoiding
an attack of illness. Good Heavens, how wet
you are!" he went on, touching her dress as
he spoke.
"Yes," said Margaret, meekly. The hood
of her water-proof had fallen back, and her
hair-drenched as a mermaid's-was rolling
loosely down her back. As she looked up,
she certainly presented as forlorn an appear-
ance as a woman whom Nature had made
pretty could possibly manage to do. She
swallowed the brandy without any demur
whatever~, then let him disembarrass her of her
cloak, and assist her into a large easy-chair,
where he bade her be quiet for five minutes.
She obeyed, watching with languid yet
slightly - amused interest his proceedings.
Certainly he was very deft in knowing what
to do and how to do it. In two minutes he
had kindled a fire which was soon burning
brightly, and put the kettle upon it. Then
lie fished a pair of dingy slippers from a re-
cess and brought them to her.
"You must take off your shoes and pitt
these on," he said. "i'm sorry that I have
nothing else which I can offer you."
"This is all I shall need," answered she.

~'The water-proof did its duty, and I'm no
v~~j wet. But you "
"Never mind about me," he interrupted
"Come up to the fire and dry yourself as wel
as you can. I am going out for a few mm
utes."
He went out, and did not return for a
least a quarter of an hour. By that tim
Margaret had changed her shoes, dried-ai
least in a measure-her drenched skirts
shaken out her hair, realized her position, anc
summoned back sufficient spirit to meet it,
It was a very changed face, flushed half b~
the fire, half by excitement, and (if there can
possibly be three halves to a whole) half pei~
haps by the brandy she had been forced to
swallow, which turned round when Roland
Tyrrell entered, if possible more drenched
than before.
"I have been out to observe the weather,
Miss Churchill," he said, sinking involuntarily
into a chair. "I fear that it will make a pris-
oner of you for some hours to come-proba-
bly, indeed, for the night. I have never seen
a more terrible storm, and the flood is rising
rapidly. God pity the poor in its path to.
night l" he added, half to himself.
"Are u's in danger?" asked Margaret,
shivering slightly, for even above the voice
of the tempest she could hear the terrible
roar of the river.
"Oh, no," he answered. "Do you think
I would keep you here if you were in danger?
This is a very elevated position. Do you
know Conrad's Hill? That is where you are,
and this house is one of a number which I
was building for my inill.operatives. They
are not likely to need them now," he said,
with a shrug.
Margaret's communicative grocer had told
her that among the mill-owners Mr. Tyrrell
had suffered most severely-that, in fact, he
was very nearly "as good as a ruined man"
-so the tone of this last sentence did not
surprise her. It only made her feel very
sorry ~'or him, and she looked up with her
quick eyes full of sympathy.
"Is that why you are here?" she asked.
"That?" he repeated, looking a little puz-
zled. "The destruction~ of my mills, do you
mean? No, I came here to be within reach
of the sufferers from the flood, and to be able
to relieve them somewhat. It is little enough
that one can do I" he added, with a short sigh.
He seemed so utterly unconscious of hay-

t lug done any thing himself-he seemed to
consider it so entirely natural that he should
have forsaken his comfortable and pleasant
I associations to come and live in an operative's
- cottage, and to devote his days to the aid of
those who had worked for him-that Mar-
I garet really had nothing to say. One cannot
well praise a man who does not know that he
has done any thing for which4o be praised.
After a while, however, she looked at him
I again, and suggested that he was very wet.
"I ant used to that," he said, smiling a
little.
Still he drew nearer the fire, and, when
she insisted that he should take his slippers
-her own shoes being dry by this time-he
* could not refuse to exchange his wet boots
for them. This, of course, made him more
comfortable, and, observing that the top of
the kettle was being merrily lifted off by the
steam, he asked Margaret if she had had
any supper.
When she replied in the negative, he went
to his cupboard and brought forth a teapot
and paper of tea.
"I hope you don't prefer coffee," he said,
a little anxiously, "for I never drink it my-
self, and I have no r~ieans to make it, nor, in-
deed, any to make."
Margaret hastened to assure him of her
preference for tea, thinking the while a little
blankly of the pound or two of the best O~-
long which she had lost in the struggle to re-
tain her umbrella, and watched the process
of steeping with the appreciation of a good
house-keeper. But she could not remain
quiet when he next produced a loaf of bread
and proceeded to cut it into slices for toast.
"I can do that," she said, eagerly.
"Please let me," as he demurred, and declined
to resign the toasting-fork. "You have no
idea how very nice my toast is. Hugh will
never let a servant make any for him. Look!
you are burning that piece. Pray give it to
me!"
She pleaded so earnestly that he had no
alternative but to let her have her own way;
so she sat down to toast the bread and scorch
her face in peace. She made a very pretty
picture on the hearth in the flickering fire-
light, with her bright-brown hair loose about
her shoulders; and Tyrrel, who had mean-
while brought forth a half-eaten ham from his
inexhaustible cupboard, could not hut pause
now and then, in the business of cutting it, to

VENDETTA.


50            ~~~HUGH'S VENDETTA.                                             HG'VEDT.

look, and wonder if he was awake or dream-
ing.
It was a very sociable little supper to
which they sat down after a while, and by this
time they had become quite sociable them-
selves; so that, when Margaret began plait-
ing her hair to get it out of the way (for she
had lost all such necessary appendages as
comb and hair-pins), she gave Tyrrell a reca-
pitulation of the losses which the storm had
entailed upon her.
"I have paid almost as dearly as Eve for
my curiosity," she said. "I have lost an um-
brella-Hugh's umbrella, and a very good one
-three pounds of tea, a hat and veil which I
bought only the other day, and two braids,
which are iucom~arably the greatest loss of
all."
"I should not think you needed such
things as braids," Tyrr~l1 remarlied. "Your
own hair is very abundaut."
"So it is,', she answered, threading the
soft locks through her fingers; "but, all the
same, one needs braids when fashion dictates
that every woman shall wear exactly three
times as much hair as could possibly grow on
her head."
"You did not use to wear them," he said.
She looked up at him quickly, and he saw
the bright blood come like a flash to her face.
IL How do you know? ~ she asked, in a low
voice.
"Do you think I have forgotten?" he
said, with something which seemed like sud-
den passion. "My memory is not so short,
Margaret." Then, after a pause which she did
not break: "Sometimes I wish to Heaven it
were I These five years have been little else
than one long torture and hunger to mc-
such hunger for one sight of your face that I
would often have given the best years of life
to see it for one half-hour as I see it now."
"Is this kind?" she asked, looking not
at him, but at the leaping blaze before them.
"You know that 1 am here in your power-
is it generous to talk to me like this?"
"No-it is not," he answered, quickly.
"Forgive me for having done so. But how
can I see you and not think of that~ happy
fortnight when I saw you first-five long
yearsago 1 It seems to me," he added, a little
wistfully, "that you did not think so much
then of the fact that I was a Tyrrell, and you
a Churchill, as you do now."
"How could I?" she asked, still avert-

in~ her gaze. "I was little more than a
child, and I had heard very little of-of your
name. I scarcely realized, indeed, when I
met you as one of that gay party at Beech-
dale, wile you were, until I came home and-
Hugh told me."
"No doubt he told you also that it was
your duty to hate the son of your father's
murderer."
This was so true that she could not deny
it, therefore she said nothing.
"Tell me, Margaret," said Tyrrell, bend-
ing forward, "has he made you hate me?
You did not use to do it, I know; for I do
not think there was ever a sweeter or bright-
er thing on earth than your face when I saw
it last. But how can I tell what five years
have done?"
"Five years have not taught sue to hate
you, Mr. Tyrrell," she said, turning and look-
ing at him with her soft brown eyes. "But"
-and her voice had a ring of decision in it
which he knew well how to interpret-" they
have not taught me either to forget that lam
Albert Churchill's daughter."
"And Hugh Churchill's sister," he said, a
little bitterly.
"I know what you mean," she answered,
coloring; "but you are mistaken. Hugh has
never succeeded in influencing me to his
opinions. He would gladly make me hate you
as-pardon mc that 1 must confess it-as
he does; but I hope you will believe me when
I say that he has never done so. Even if I
did not forgive your father-and God knows
that I d~ I-I could not be so unjust as to
hold you accountable for his crime. Icoud
not, Mr. Tyrrell!" she repeated, almost pas-
sionately.
"I believe you," he said. "I believe you
and thank you. But for the rest-O Mar-
garet! for the rest 1 Am I alone, of all men,
to have no opportunity or hope to win you
because my name is Tyrrell ?"
Lb You must feel as well as 1 do that there
'is a gulf between us that nothing can bridge,"
'she answered, gravely. "It is hopeless to
talk of such a thing, Mr. Tyrrell-worse than
hopeless, indeed. It seems like an insult to
the dead. I am sorry-oh, what a weak word
that is 1-I am far, far more than sorry that
it should have fallen to my lot to give you
pain, but the truth must be faced; if you and
I lived forever, we could never be more to
each other thas we are now."

"Never, Margaret?"
"Never."
She did not speak bitterly or vehemently
on the contrary, she spoke with great sadness
and infinite gentleness, but Tyrrell felt to di
very centre of his soul that Hugh's fier:
hatred was more likely to turn into love thai
this decision of his sister to be moved o~
shaken. The young engineer had been righ
when he said, in his impetuous pride, "On
point of honor we Churchills always thini
alike," and even he might have been satisfied
that Margaret remembered as deeply as him.
self their black and bloody debt to Henry
Tyrrell.
After her last words there was silence in
the room. The wind howled, the rain fell,
the river roared without. There were many
desolate and aching hearts in Hidgeford that
night; many who had seen fortune, and not
a few who had seen friends and relations, go
down in the merciless flood; but none were
more desolate, none ached with a more dreary
sense of hopeless loss, than his who sat by
that sparkling fire with Margaret Churchill's
fair face opposite him.
After a while, seeing that the night was
wearing on, she asked anxiously if there was
no possible hope for her to get home. He
answered by bidding her come to a window
and drawing back the blind.
"Shade your eyes and look out," he said.
"Then tell me what you see."
She obeyed-that is, she obeyed in part.
She shaded her eyes, and strove, with her
gaze, to pierce the darkness of the murky
and tempestuous night beyond, but in vain.
Only the rain dashing against the window-
panes, only the blast that seemed as if it
might lift the roof from oil' the cottage, told
her what was raging without. She looked
round at him in blank dismay.
"Is there no hope, then?" she said. "0
Mr. Tyrrell, must I stay here alinight?"
"I am afraid you must," he answered,
gravely, closing the blind again. "At least 1
know that if you and 1 ventured out in this
storm, we should not be likely ever to be
beard of again. Forgive me for bringing you
here," he went on, as he saw the distress on
her face. "I could net think of any thing
else to do. It was very stupid, vea'y thought..
less, of me not to ~
But she interrupted him here by holding
out her hand.

Lb Forgive me for seeming ungrateful for
such a kind shelter," she said. "You know,
or you ought to know, that you did the best
s possible thing for me-the only thing, indeed.
a Of course It is awkward "-laughing slightly
-Lb but you and I are old enough and seu~i.
z ble enough to disregard that. If I was only
sure that Hugh was not wretched about me I"
"May he not think that, being caught by
the storm, yen remained in town?"
"It is likely that he may. I have some
I friends with whom I often do remain. Thank
you for the suggestion, Mr. Tyrrell. Now,
shall we make our arrangements for the
night? I am so sorry to think how much I
shall inconvenience you~~
"Do not grudge me this little service,"
he said. "God knows, and you know, that
it may be the last I shall ever have the op..
opportunity to render you l"
There was some difficulty about the ar-
rangements for the night, since the choice
rested between the bed-which was, in truth,
little more than a sofa-and the easy-chair.
Each of them wanted to sit up and let the
other rest; but, of course, Tyrrell carried his
point; and while Margaret lay down, and, de-
spite the novelty of her position, soon fell into
the sound sleep of healthy youth, he sat by
the fire and watched the stormy nightthrougla
and the gray dawn break over the drenched
earth.
-4----
CI~AFTER 111.
WHEN Margaret woke the next moriiing,
she found herself alone in the room-a bright
fire burning on the hearth, and a cloudy apol-
ogy for daylight streatning in. It required*
several minutes for her to remember where
she was; but then it all came back with a
rush, and, rising, she walked across the floor,
and drew back the blind of the window. It
~had ceased to rain; but the terrible ravages
of the storm were evident on every side, and
she could not help thinking that the waters
of the deluge, abating from the face of the
earth, may have presented much such a
seeming as the scene on which she gazed.
As she still looked, she saw Tyrrell striding
along through mud and water toward the
house; and, turning when he entered, she
asked at once where he had been.
Lb To find some means oI'getting you home,"

51

50

HUGH'S VENDETTA.


52                          HUGh'S '
he answered. "It was rather difficult, for
the rain last night seems to have inundated
the brains of all Ridgeford, and vehicles are
in great demand for the people escaping from
the neighborhood of the flood. A carriage
will be here in a few minutes, however."
He looked so pale and haggard, as the
morning light streamed over his face, that
she was suddenly stricken with remorse to
think how he had been working for her
while she slept.
"How has the rain of last night affected
you, Mr. Tyrrell ?" she asked.
"It has made something very like a ruined
man of ~ he answered. "lint I think very
little-too little, perhaps-of that. I have
only myself to care for, you know; and, when
one stands alone, no blow of Fortune can be
very severe.~~
Margaret was not by any means sure of
this, but she did not contradict him. She
only glanced up with a smile, and said:
"Shall I not make you some tea? You
look so tired."
His face brightened as by a flash. "Yes,"
he said, eagerly. "Yes, if you will be so
kind."
So she set to work in her c~ieery way-a
way that had brightened her own home like
a sunbeam for twenty.two years-and soon
had the tea ready-such tea as Mr. Tyrrell
was not in the habit, nor, indeed, capable, of
making for himself. He took it from her
hand as if it had been the veritable nectar
of the gods; and, in truth, the poor fellow
needed4t badly. He had taken a more pow-
erful stimulant at an earlier hour, but, to re.
vive jaded energies and tired faculties, there
is no power in brandy to equal that which
lurks in one strong cup drawn from the fra-
grant Chinese herb.
Before the~had finished their impromptu
collation-fo~~Margaret sat sown to bear him
company, not so much because she wanted
any thing, as because' she knew by instinct
that the sight of her was pleasant to his eyes
-the carriage, which had been ordered, drove
up to the door. Miss Churchill rose and put
on her water-proof, drawing the hood over
her hatless head, and then, since this com-
pleted her preparations for departure, turned
to Tyrrell.
"How can I thank you for all your kind.
ness?" she said to him, in a low voice.
"What would have become of me if you had

~ENDETTA.                                                            HUGH'S VENDETTA.

not found and sheltered mel' Believe me, I
shall never forget it. It "-she hesitated a
moment, then went on, with a crimson cheek
-"it has, if possible, made me regret still
more deeply the manner in which you were
received when you came on your errand of
kindness to our house a month ago."
"You should know better than to talk
like this," ho ~aSd, reproachfully. "Kind-
ness-kindness to you I It has been the
greatest happiness that Fate ever gave to me,
und one on the memory of which I shall live
for months and years to come." He had
taken, by this time, the small, ungloved hand
which she offered him, and, holding it now,
gazed with passionate wistfulness into her
face. "Margaret," he said, hoarsely, "for
the last time, the very last time, let me ask
'is there, can there be, no hope for me?"
She looked at him, and he read his answer
in her sorrowful eyes. Then, after a minute:
"Why do you embitter our parting like
this?" she asked, sadly. "You know we
are not likely ever to meet again. Why not
let us say farewell as friends-or, if not as
friends, at least as acquaintances who have
met and liked each other sincerely?"
"Then we are not even friends?"
"How can we be?" she asked, still sadly.
"Do friends live as far apart as we must ever
do? 0 Mr. Tyrrell I "-her voice broke down
here into something like a wail-" let me go.
For God's sake do not prolong this hopeless
pain!"
"Pain! Is it pain to you?" he cried,
quick to catch the new accent in her voice.
"0 Margaret! one word-only one word-
before you go. If we had met like other
people-if this horrible barrier of past crime
had not been between us-could you, oh, my
darling I-could you ever have learned to
love me? If you can tell me that, Margaret,
it seems to me that I can face even the deso-
late future with a brave heart if I know
that."
But she did not answer him. Her pale
lips did not move; her downcast eyes did not
lift; she only suddenly drew her hand from
the clasp of his, and darted toward the
door.
He followed, and assisted her into the car-
riage; then, to her surprise, entered also, and
closed the door.
"Arc you coming with me?" she asked.
"If you do not object," he answered, "I

53

will certainly assure myself that you reach "Nothing much is the matter; Miss
home safely." Churchill," he said, turning round with a face
She could not demur at this, but she which belied his words. "Only there's been
winged a fervent prayer to Heaven that Hugh an accident at the mines. It's all come right,
might be safely gone to his morning work. If I dare say. You-you better go in!"
he should still chance to be at home, what lie hurried on, but Margaret stood still,
would he say, what would he think, to see her panic-strickcn. She knew well what those
drive up with Roland Tyrrell! Of course she Ihtal words, "accident at the mines," meant.
meant to tell him where and how she bad She had not lived for years at the very verge
spent the night; hut, all the same, it must without knowing far more than the outer.
be done with caution, not with such abrupt world of the perils which beset the workers
force. in earth's mysterious depths. It never oc-
She might have spared her fears, however, curred to her for a moment that Hugh might
for Roland Tyrrell was z~ever a dull man, nor be connected with the accident, but yet her
one likely to fall into such a blunder as this, heart stood still at thought of the horrible
When they were once safely in a street possibilities of suffering so near her. She
which led straight to the Churchill cottage, realized the agony with which every woman
he stopped the carriage and got out, around her was asking, "Is it my husband, or
"I will bid you good-by here," he said to my son?" She even realized-or thought
Margaret, and extended his hand. she did-the awful despair of those who were
She placed her own within it, but what buried alive far beneath the green surface of
she said she did not know; she could not af- the world. "God help them!" she said to
terward remember, though she vainly tried to herself; and then, as she was turning to enter
think that it had been something kind. It the gate, she heard two men speaking as they
was much more likely to have been something passed at a rapid pace.
wholly commonplace and unmeaning, for what "I thought as z~iuch!" one of them said.
else do any of us ever say at those decisive "It's all Churchill's fault, lie insisted on
moments of meeting and parting which stamp pressing the work in tfiat direction-and it
themselves for good or ill upon the heart? was only yesterday he volunteered to direct
Then she drove on, and left him standing the men himself. He was a headstrong fel-
alone, low; but one can't help being sorry for him,
It has been already said that the neigh- and this will come hard-on his sister!"
boyhood in which the Churchills lived was It did come hard on her, harder even than
principally inhabited by the class who found the speaker thought, from its horrible unex-
employment in the large mines and their ad- pectedness. She reeled back and caught the
jacent works, not far distant. This part of low fence, white as a sheet, and trembling
the town had not suffered in the least from like an aspen. For a moment she tried to
that destructive flood which had almost swept smile-it was such utter folly! Hugh! How
away the lower portion; yet, as Margaret could Hugh possibly be in danger? Then
drove toward the cottage, she could not but that awful sickness of the heart-like unto
observe signs of an unusual commotion in no other sickness of earth-came over her,
the streets and about the doors of houses. and she would have fallen to the ground if an
Knots of people were gathei'ed, talking cx. arm had not supported her. It was only the
citedly; women ran past with terror and die. rough, fustian-clad arm of the coachman who
may on their faces; even the children looked had not y~t driven off; but, for all that, it
wild and horror-stricken. was very serviceable, and very kindly, too.
"What can possibly have occurred!" "Hold up a bit, miss," he said, "and I'll
thought Miss Churchill; and she was not call somebody to you. I reckon you've been
sorry that, as she stopped the carriage at her t~sken sick.like.*~
own gate, a man whom she knew well as con- "No," said Margaret, putting up her hand
nected with the mines~ came hurrying past. to her ghastly face, "I am not sick. Stop,"
"One minute, Mr. Wayland!" she cried, she said, catching his arm as he was turning
for he did not seem to notice her. "Pray away, "don't call anybody, I have no time to
tell me what is the matter? Something has talk. Open the carriage-door and let me In,
happened, surely?" Then drive as fast as you can to the mines."

VENDETTA.


HUGH'S VENDETTA.

HUGH'S VENDETTA.

He stared at her; but she beckoned him
so impatiently to obey, that, after a second's
hesitation, he did so-guessing, in part, at
least, the cause of her anxiety. rer~haps he
was not averse to sharing in the excitement
himself. At all events, he whipped up his
horses with laudable zeal, and, in a very few
minutes, they reached the mines.
Driving past the large works, where the
sound of machinery had, for the present,
stopped, and past the deserted offices (of
which Hugh's was one), they came to the
opening of the principal descent into the
mine. It was not here, however, that a sig-
nificant and terrible scene was enacting.
Farther away, to the right, a new shaft had
been lately sunk, and entirely new excava-
tions made-concerning which, as Margaret
well remembered, Hugh had been full of eager
interest and hope. Several older engineers
had opposed the move; but he had carried
every thing before him with the company, and
already the most favorable results had been
anticipated. He had brought home trium-
phantly several rich specimens of ore, and
spoken gayly of the chagrin of those who had
prophesied utter failure for the project. Now
--was this to be the 'end?
It certainly looked so. Around the fatal
spot was gathered a crowd of many men and
not a few women; the former looking as men
only look in the face of some terrible tragedy;
the latter, for the most part, wailing loudly,
or sobbing dry sobs with that restraint of
grief which is more terrible to behold than its
wildest abandonment. Margaret a lighted here,
and made her way through the throng to
where the superintendent was standing, just
at the mouth of the opening.
"Mr. Beresford," she said, touching his
arm, "is it true that Hugh is in there?"
" Good Heavens, Miss Churchill !" said Mr.
ileresford, turning round with a start. "Is it
possible you are here? My dear young lady,
this will never do. Come away instantly!"
"Is Hugh there?" she reiterated, looking
at him with her pale, set face. "Tell me the
truth at once. I must know."
"Well, then-yes, he is there!" he said,
desperately. "Now, for God's sake, come
away! This is no place for you!"
She paid no heed to his adjuration. She
only caught his arm, and asked another ques-
tion through her white lips.
"Is there any hope?"

"We trust s6," he Said, eagerly. "We
never give up hope until we know the worst.
We only fear it now. You see, it has not
been an hour since the wall fvll-not in the
path; but, as well as we ~an judge, in the
rear of the mining party-and we have had a
large force at work ever since. Listen, and
you can hear the ring of the pickaxes I"
She listened with a sickening heart; and,
though her ears were not trained like his, she
thought she could faintly catch a dull and
muffled sound, which told of the vigorous
strokes of many arms. Once more she heard
him urging her to come away, but she only
shook her head. No earthly power could
have forced her from the spot where Hugh
was buried-alive, and yet dead! There are
some things so horrible that the imagination
refuses to grasp them. This was one of them
to Margaret. Though she sat (for her trem.
hung limbs refused to support her, and Mr.
Beresford placed her on a stone not far away),
like a pale image of despair, breathing the
free air of heaven while ho was shut from it
in the black depths of earth, she could not
realize the awful horror pressing on her.
They came, and went, and talked, around
her, as men do under stress of great excite-
ment; but she tlld not heed them. She was
trying to wrest her mind from the upper world
and take it into his dark prison; but it would
not go. It reeled on the very brink of uncon-
sciousness when she tried to picture him
gasping, dying-so near her, yet, 0 Heaven!
so far away.
She felt as if it had been hours that she
had sat there, frozen into a stony stillness by
the very magnitude of her anguish, yet keenly
alive to every sound that bore relation to Aim,
when a faint cheer from the men below (that
is, a cheerwhich wounded faint to those above)
announced that they had reached the victims
of the accident. In a second, Margaret sprang
to her feet; but in a second, also, a strong
hand held her back.
"Wait!" said a familiar voice. "Not
yet!"
She turned, not in surprise-at such mo-
ments people are rarely surprised s~ any
thing-but with a sense of blind trust strange
indeed in a woman usually so self.reliant as
Margaret Churc~hill. Looking up into the
dark eyes bent upon her-eyes full of pas-
sionate pity and passionate love-her agony
for the first time broke forth into words.

"Do you go, then!" she said. "I ci
trust you to tell me if Hugh is-" H4
white lips could not utter the word "dead,
It seemed such an awful and such an unre~
word to connect with Hugh's proud life an
strength. "Then you will save him if ye
can?" she went on, with trembling cage:
ness. "0 Mr. Tyrrell! you are so brave an
kind-will you not try to save him? Surel
you are better able than they-those mc.
yonder; surely you can if you will!"
"God knows how willingly I would if
could," Tyrrell said. "But those men you
der understand such matters, and they hay
done all that human effort can do."
"But you are wiser than they," she per
sister, feverishly. "You think I am childish
to talk like this, but I feel-I know-tha
God has sent you to help and to save him
Am I mad? I don't know. But say yoi
will try-oh, say you will try!"
"I will try," he answered, carried away
by her appeal, yet knowing that there wai
nothing for him to do. "I swear to you
that, if an opportunity arises, I will hold my
own life for nothing in comparison with his.
But will you promise me to stay here if I
go?"
"I promise," she said, and she sat down
again on the seat from which she had risen.
When Margaret Churchill said "I prom-
ise" he must have been blind and deaf in-
deed who didn't trust her-even at such a
supreme moment as this. Tyrrell did, fully
and entirely. He gave one glance ~t her face
-rigid with an awful look of despair-then
went his way without another word.
They were bringing out the victims one
by one when he reached the opening of the
shaft. A terrible sight it was-with the
fearful wail of some women rising now and
then as a husband or a son was recognized.
Most of them were dead. A few, who had
been farther advanced in front, had escaped
the heavy fall of the ill-supported earth, and
still showed signs of life. Half hoping, yet
half apprehensive, Tyrrell looked over the
unconscious faces, but Hugh was not there.
As he looked, Mr. Beresford approached.
"No sign of Churchill yet," he said. "He
must certainly have licen one of the farthest
in the mine.
"That gives hopes for his safety, doesn't
it?"
"In a measure," the other answered, "but

55

in only in a measure. You see we got them out
ir very quickly, and those men who were not
.' immediately suffocated, may 'Very likely re-
al cover. But every minute counts, and, the
d longer they are in finding Churchill, the less
u hope there is that he will be found alive."
r-    "Yes, I see," said Tyrrell, thoughtfully.
d Then, after a pause, he added: "Can I go
y into the mine? I should like to see what
II progress they are making, unless you object
to the intrusion of outsiders."
I "I do object, as a general rule," the su-
perintendent answered. "There are plenty
a of people here who would like nothing better
than to go down there and stare, if they were
- allowed to do so; but, of course, with you,
a Mr. Tyrrell, it is a different matter. I'll send
I a man down with you if you wish to go."
-    Tyrrell reiterating his desire, the man was
summoned, and they proceeded together into
the mine. It was a strange, wild scene, and
thoroughly novel to the man of the upper
world, upon which they entered. The dark
galleries opening away in different directions,
with here and there the light of a miner's
candle gleaming, the subterranean atmos-
phere, the smell of fresh earth from the
fallen wall, the force of men working with
shovels and pickaxes by the light of lanterns
and torches. As Tyrrell came up, an inani-
mate figure was drawn forth and carried past
him to the upper air. "Jackson," he heard
the men saying to each other, and then some-
body added, "Stone dead!"
"You see they are still taking out the
men on whom the earth fell," his guide said.
"There's something like half a dozen niissing
yet. If you are not 'afraid to come through
this way, you'll find the place where they are
looking for Mr. Churchill."
Fear did not chance to be a word in Ro-
land Tyrrell's vocabulary, so he followed the
speaker, through an opening in the fallen
earth, to where the advance portion of the
mining party had been found. It was very
near the end of the excavation, and men
were working here eagerly, expecting every
moment to find Hugh Churchill as they had
found the others.
"He'll never come out alive," Tyrrell's
guide said, gloomily. "Not but that-steady
boys! what are you after now?"
They were after another inanimate figure,
upon which they had stumbled, and which
they were almost sure would prove the one

54

*


HUGH'S VENDETTA.

so anxiously sought. "Hold up, there!"
they cried to the men who were working with
pickaxes in front (foolishly enough, since the
end of the excavation had plainly been
reached); but these did not seem to hear,
for, just as the others were lifting up the un-
conscious face for identification, their axes
went suddenly through into another and un-
suspected excavation beyond-there was a.
quick rattle of falling earth-a crust-like wall
gave way - and a blast of air rushed out
which proved ~ts noxious qualities by extin-
guishing in an instant every one of the lights.
The panic which ensued was neither so
unwise nor so unnatural as might at first ap-
pearJ If the men. threw down pickaxes and
shovels to fly for their livesit was because
they knew well that their lives were atatake
-since, of all dangers Which the miner has to
dread, the most deadly by far is the subtle
poison known as mephitic air. Tyrrell's guide
had sufficient consideration to seize him by
the arm, and hurry him away at such a breath-
less pace that he scarcely knew what had
happened until he found himself beyond the
point where the first earth had fallen.
Even here the panic had spread, and the
men were retreating. "All's up now," they
said. "No hope for any man left in there
when tluzt gets at him. The devil himself
couldn't live in foul air!"
"Where is Mr. Churchill ?" demanded'
Tyrrell, as soon as he could be heard. Then,
as an ominous silence followed the question:
"For God's sake, you don't mean to tell me
that you are men, and that you have left a man
who could not help himself, to perish in
there? Is it possible-has it been done?"
It had indeed been done. No, one had
thought of him. Each man had blindly
rushed from the danger, and left the uncQn-
scions one behind.
"He is dead," some of them, said, by way
of excuse.
"No man knows that," Tyrrell answered.
"No man ~an dare to say that he felt either
his heart or his pulse. The presumption is
that he is alive-and I call upon you as brave
men to go back with me for him."
There was a dead silence. Brave enough
they were, the most of them; but not so
brave as this. They had faced danger frim
the falling earth, but they could not face cer-
tain death from mephitic air. Nobody stirred
Most of them were silent; only one or two

murmured that there had been deaths enough,
and that they had their families to consider.
"Very well," said Tyrrell, scornfully, "I
will go alone. Give me a lantern-something
that cannot be extinguished easily; and I
will show you whether or not you are a set of
pitiful cowards. Only ".-he stopped a mo-
ment and considered-" I am afraid I could
scarcely bring him out alone. Is there any
one here who can be bribed to do his duty
by a thousand dollars? If so, let him speak
at once. There is not a second to lose, and I
will write a check before I go."
His taunt stung one man at least into ac-
tion. A stout, dark - brewed young fellow
stepped forward.
"You may keep your money, Mr. Tyrrell,"
he said. "i'll go with you without a bribe.
It's like to be certain death; but I've nobody
depending on me, so it don't matter much,
nohow."
"All right," said Tyrrell, witl, a quick
glance at him. "You'll do," he added. "Get
the light we are to take-the quicker the bet-
ter."
A couple of lanterns were brought, and a
bucket of water for each of them, with which
to dispel in a measure the poisonous gas.
While these were being provided, Tyrrell
heard an old miner explain the presence of
the foul air. The mine was an old one, with
several long-disused chambers-excavations
which had been cut off by much such an ac-
cident (though in the former case harmless)
as the present; and it was evidently into one
of these that the new excavation led. No-
body had suspected it until the unguarded
strokes of two or three men had laid bare the
danger.
it certainly was a terrible danger into
which Tyrrell and his companion now ven-
tured. They felt it in the faintness which
made them stpgger and reel like drunken
men when the first breath of the mephitic at-
mosphere came over them; and, as they ad-
vanced, it of course grew worse.
"We must be quick," said the young
miner, in -a half-stifled voice; "we can't
stand this many minutes I" He set down his
lantern hastily, and, raising his bucket of
water with both hands to a level with his
shoulder, cast the contents in showery dashes
all around and over himself and his compan-
ion; then, dropping the bucket, snatched up
the light and hurried forward. Fortunately

HUGH'S'
they had but a few steps to go from the en-
trance of the excavation to where Churchill
was lying, face don~nward, just as he had
been left by the men when they fled for their
lives.
"Thank God-here he is!" cried Tyr-
rell.
"Put down your light!" exclaimed the
miner, who had already put his own out of
his hand, and, with one vigorous effort, had
turned Hugh upon his back. "Dash your
water over his face-now for it!" and he
seized Hugh's shoulders, motioning to Tyr.
rell to assist. Gasping, giddy, and so 4int
that they could scarcely stand, they half car-
ried, half dragged him along between them
to the opening of the excavation. The gases
had by this time been considerably diluted
by the outside air finding its way in; but
still the atmosphere was horrible. The lights
burned dimly, and both Tyrrell and his com-
panion felt their strength and consciousness
fast leaving them. As at last they reached
the bound of safety-the opening in the fall-
en wall-Tyrrell staggered, wavered, and fell
heavily forward.
"On-on!" he gasped, as his companion
paused. "Don't stop for me-come back, if
you will-but keep on now-on!"
His strength had collapsed, but not so his 1
power of command. There was something 1
compelling to obedience in the imperious
tones; and, admonished partly by them,
partly by his own increasing faintness, the
young miner kept on.
It was lucky for Hugh Churchill that he C
did so. Scarcely had he passed the opening t
when there came another heavy
closing it behind him, fall of earth, 5
S
a
I
CHAPTER IV.                ti
ROLAND TYnnELL's last sight - the last, ti
he fancied, that he should ever have of tI
worldly things-was of that falling barrier N
which shut him, in poisonous darkness, from h
the sights and sounds of men. After that, he e~
knew nothing more.                      b4
He knew nothing of the sensation which di
the news of his entombment made, nor how
Mr. Beresford himself rushed down into the tli
mine, nor how volunteers flocked to the work bc
of his rescue, nor yet how zealously the me~ gr

VENDETTA.
labored to save him who had only a little
before denounced them as cowards.
But when Margaret Churchill, who was
kneeling by her unconscious yet living broth.
er, heard the news, she uttered a cry which
those around her never forgot.
"It is my fault!" she cried. "it is my
fault! Urged him to go! I begged him to
save Hugh! But I never feared this-I never
thought that he would give his own Iife-O
my God! what have I done!"
It was easier to ask than to answer. The
men below worked with a will on the fallen
earth, which, being light, gave way readily to
their shovels; but not one of them dared to
hope that they would find Tyrrell alive. They
knew too well the terrible power of the agent
at work w~thin.
"I don't think there's more than a shadow
of a chance for the poor fellow," the superin-
tendent said. "But we can only do for him
what he did for Churchill -give him the
benefit of that.-So work away, for God's
sake, boys! every second of time counts
against him."
They knew that as well as the speaker
~lid, and scarcely needed to be urged to ex-
pedition. They worked as they had seldom,
3ven in their stalwart lives of labor, worked
before. Whether it was merely the universal
zuman sympathy for human suffering-which
~t such times strikes a magnetic chord to
nake men brothers-or whether they were
noved to special interest by the courage of
he gallant gentleman dying within, no one
ould tell. Assuredly they could n~t have
old themselves. People accustomed to
analyzing motives do not pause for such a
process at moments of supreme excitement.
till less are those who have never done such
thing likely to choose such a time to begin.
did not matter what sentiment it was, when
~e heart sent force enough into those sturdy
rms to demolish in a very short time-.
iough time which seemed horribly long to
ic passive lookers-on-the awful tomb of
nature's fashioning. Then they found that
a was lying immediately beyond the fallen
~rth, and that the two lanterns which had
~en left were still burning, though very
mly.
Drawn forth into purer air, they thought
icy detected signs of life; but no one could
sure of this. It was true there was some
ound of hope in the fact that the lights


5S                  HUGH'S VENDETTA.                                                      HUGH'S VENDETTA.

had not been totally extinguished, and that
he had not been buried much more than fif-
teen or twenty minutes; but no man was
bold enough to say, "He will live!" nor even
"He is alive!"
"Get him up into the hands of the doctors
as quick as possible," Mr. Beresford said.
"Good Heavens! what a piece of work this
has been!"
Up from the under-world into the light
of God's blessed sky he was accordingly
taken-a far more deathly-seeming man than
Hugh Churchill had been, or even than those
poor victims drawn forth, stone-dead, from
beneath the avalanche of fallen earth. Un-
d~r the influence of powerful restoratives,
Churchill was beginning to revival a little,
and to comprehend, in a measure~Where he
was and what had happened.
"Tyrrell l" he repeated, faintly, as he
heard the name passing from lip to lip
around him, for just at that moment Tyrrell
was brought forth, and laid down, as it
chanced, almost exactly at the feet of the
brother and sister. To the surprise of all
present, Margaret Churchill rose at once,
and, going to his side, knelt down by him;
gazing into the pallid face, feeling the pulse-
less hands.
"He has given his life for yours, Hugh,"
she said, at last, looking up at her bewil-
dered brother, with a ghastly smile on her
quivering lips. "I think you may be satis-
fied that your vendetta is ended now."
He had, indeed, given his life so far as
the will to do so went, but not as far as the
actual fact was concerned. The physicians,
who now came up, told Margaret that he was
still alive. "He has wonderful vital force,"
they said, "and it has enabled him to sur-
vive an ordeal that would have killed a
weaker man. But he is not out of danger
yet. He may never recover consciousness,
or, if he does, an attack of illness may prob-
ably follow. We will apply all possible re-
storatives, and then he should be taken away
from here at once. Does anybody know
where his lodgings are? The Tyrrell house
was rented last week."
Margaret knew where those lodgings were,
but she held her peace as the men around
shook their heads and disclaimed any knowl-
edge of Mr. Tyrrell's place of abode. "Never
mind, nbout that," she said, impatiently, to
the doctor who had spoken "It is time

enough to talk of where you will take him
when he is ready to be taken anywhere."
This was true enough. The process of
restoring him, therefore, went on for some
time at the mouth of the fatal shaft, with
men and women of all kinds looking on-
grief and death present in their most awful
forms - and the petty, commonplace world
thrusting itself forward now and then in the
person of some newspaper reporter, who,
having been spared from 'work on the flood
to chronicle this new horror, came up to
question the miners, the officials, the doctors,
the half-restored victims-anybody and every-
body, without regard to time or place.
After a while, the physicians seemed to
agree that Tyrrell would very likely recover.
"He will not come to himself for some time
yct," they said; "but, with the liberal
aid of restoratives and stimulants, he'll do
now."
It was after this decision that Margaret,
who had, meanwhile, exchanged a few words
with Hugh, came forward and spoke.
"Our cottage is near by," she said;
"Mr. Tyrrell must be taken there. He
risked his life to save my brother, and I
should never forgive myself if I let him
pass out of my sight until he is again re-
stored to health."
She announced this determination with so
much quiet firmness and dignity that no one
gainsayed her. Indeed, nobody had any right
to do so. Roland Tyrrell had no relations,
and but few friends, in Ridgeford. There
was no one to oppose a rival claim for the
possession of this weak, unconscious man,
whose only sense of returning life was a ter-
rible, giddy sickness.
He did not know where they were taking
him-in fact, he didn't care. As in a dream,
he was aware that people came and went
about him; that masculine voices talked over
him; that a gentle hand now and then touched
him with the magic art of soothing which some
women possess; and that, finally, he lapsed
into a sleep too deep even for such dreams as
these.
When he awoke, he felt as bewildered as
Margaret had been on her awaking under
somewhat similar circumstances. He could
not remember for some time what had hap.
pened, nor why he felt so weak and faint.
Even when he mastered his recollection-up
to the point of the falling earth in the mine-

he could not imagine how he had been trans-
ported from that prison, dreary and hopeless
as Dante's hell, to this boudoir-like chamber,
with its dainty furniture and picture-hung
walls.
At last, however, he gave up the effort of
fatiguing his brain with conjectures, and de-
cided to wait patiently for an explanation of
the mystery. As if to reward his philosophy,
it was not long before it came. The handle
of the door turned softly, the door itself
opened cautiously, and he heard a voice,
which he would have recognized among ten
thousand, saying, in a subdued key:
"Now take care and don't make a noise,
Hugh. Go in very gently and tell me if he is
still asleep."
Hugh! Roland Tyrrell's dark eyes opened
yet wider than they had done before at sound
of that name, and it was those eyes which
Churchill first encountered when he entered
the room with elaborate caution.
"By Jove!" he said, and evinced symp-
toms of beating an immediate retreat.
But Tyrrell frustrated this intention by
lifting himself a little, and holding out the
hand which he had once declared his inten-
tion of never offering again to Hugh Churchill.
"I am very glad to see you again alive
and well," he said.
The words were not very much, but the
tone was a good deal, and touched Hugh by
its evi(lent sincerity. He came forward and
wrung the extended hand with an almost pain-
ful force.
"Do you think I don't know that I owe it
to you?" he said. "I never thought to owe 4
any thing-at least any thing more-to one I
of your name, Mr. Tyrrell, but, despite my
will, you have made me your debtor for my
life."
This did not sound like a very gracious
acknowledgment, but perhaps Roland Tyrrell r
understood it. At least he smiled slightly, a
"Don't let the obligation weigh upon t
you," he said. "Look upon it not as a debt
incurred, but as a debt paid. I hope I should v
have done the same for anybody, but I was a
especially glad to do it for you. We got you i,
out just in time," he Went on, "and now pray d
tell me how they got me out, and what is the a
matter with my head? It surges like a roll-
ing sea whenever I move."
Hughhavingsatisfi~d his curiosity on these tI
points, and told him much that he himself v

59

only knew from the report of others, Tyrrell
next inquired where he was.
"It can't be," he said, remembering the
sound of Margaret's voice, "that I am in
b'our house."
"My sister thought it only fair that she
should return your hospitality," Hugh said,
I thinking to turn off the matter with a jest.
''Seriously, you did not think that we were
I going to send you to a hospital or a boarding-
house when you had just risked-yes~ and by
Jove! came within an inch of losing-your
life to save mine?" he added, a little indig-
nantly.
"I-upon my honor, I never thought of
it at all," Tyrrell answered. "My head-con-
found it !-had not been in much of a condi-
tion for thinking. But it is very good, very
kind of you to have me here."
"If it had not been for you, I should not
be here," Hugh said, bluntly. "I generally
try to pay my debts-after a fashion, at least.
Oh, I had quite forgotten!" as a knock at
the door was followed by the entrance of a
small servant and a breakfast-tray, "Mar-
garet wants to know if you will be well
enough to come down after you have had
your breakfast. There's a couch in the par-
lor where you can be comfortable, and you'll
find it dull up here, for I muSt go over to the
mines.
"Of course I will come down," said Tyr-
rell. "What is the matter with me? I am not
sick."
"A man can't inhale mephitic air with
[mpunity," Hugh answered. "It will be sev-
~ral days before you are all right agai4. I
iad a turn with it once, but not like this."
Mr. Tyrrell found, indeed, that a man
,ould not inhale mephitic air with impunity
rhen he attempted to dress at a later hour
~f the morning, and, at a still later period, to
nake his way down-stairs, tempted beyond
II prudence by the thought of that couch in
he parlor where Margaret awaited him.
As he descended slowly, clutching ncr-
ously at the balustrade, and feeling so ab-
urd that he hoped devoutly no servant was
a ambush to spy upon his erratic motions, a
oor below opened, and Miss Churchill her-
elf stepped into the hall.
"Is that you, Mr. Tyrrell ?" she said,
lining her bright face upward. "Oh, how
~oughtlcss I am to forget how fiiint and sick
ou must feel l"

I

58

HUGH'S VENDETTA.


60                            HUGH'S v~
She ran up to meet him, and insisted on
his leaning on her.
"I should have kept Hugh for this ser-
vice," she said, laughing. "He would have
made an excellent support, but I serve as a
crutch. I am a good height for a crutch, am
met?"
"You are good for every thing," he said,
gratefully. "How kind it was of you to
bring me here I"
"Why, where else should you have
gone?" she asked. "After all you have suf-
fered for Hugh, is it not very little to bring
you here and nurse you well?"
"I hope I shall not need any nursing."
"You see I have made elaborate prepara-
tions, nt least."
She led him into the parlor as she~poke
-that same parlor which he had entered
once before in the dusk of the gloaming-
and where a broad, low couch was wheeled
before the fire, with cushions piled on it, and
books and papers near.
"If you want to read an authentic ac-
count of your heroism, there is the morning's
Post," she said, with a smile, as (rather
against his will) she made him lie down.
"Or shall I read it to you? Hugh says I
read very weU. and I was taught early to
mind my commas and stops."
"I would much rather hear you talk," he
said, looking at the chair from which she had
plainly risen at the sound of his step. "I
can't help thinking that I am dreaming. This
is far too good to be true."
"God knows if anybody had prophesied
it to me this time yesterday l should have
thought that it was far too good to be true,"
she said, looking at him with quick-rising
tears quenching the laughter in her brown
eyes. Then, before he could conceive what
she meant to do, she came and knelt down
by his couch, laying her two soft hands over
one of his.
"OMr. Tyrrell," she said, "I know that
brave men rarely like to be praised or thanked
for their noble deeds; but I cannot keep si-
lence. I must-I wilt thank you for giving
Hugh back to me; for counting your own
life as nothing in comparison to his; for dar-
ing a danger from which any man might well
have shrunk, and for-for-oh, for proving to
everybody that you are as brave and gener-
ous as Inlways knew you were!"
Her eyes glowed, her cheeks flushed, her

HUGH'S

iiNDETTA.

lips quivered. Nobody could have doubted
how entirely from her heart those eager words
came. Tyrrell-"--who usually had enough of
that simplicity which accompanies true cour-
age not to like to hear his own achievements
praised-would have been something more or
less than man if, in this instance, he had not
listened with more than pleasure. He tried
to stop her, but she would not be stopped.
The generous heart was no niggard, and
meant to utter all it felt - for Margaret
Churchill was not a woman to do things by
halves.
"Do not talk to me like this," he said at
last. "I am not used to such sweet flattery.
You know-or you ought to know-that I
would count any loss or suffering a positive
gain which enabled me to serve you. Fate
has been kind to me in giving me this op-
portunity. I alone, therefore, am its debtor.
Hence, all is said."
"No; all is not said," she answered, im-
petuously. "Indeed "-with smiles brimming
up into her eyes again, like the April mood of
a child-" I really have not an idea when all
wilt be said. Not in a long, very long while,
I am sure."
"You don't mean that you are going to
talk for a very long while about me?" he
asked, slightly dismayed.
"Yes, about you-and a little, perhaps,
about Hugh. Do you know, Mr. Tyrrell, that
if I am the happiest woman in the world this
morning, it is because I was the most wr.etch~
ed yesterday morning? What should I have
done if Hugh had been brought back to
me as many another woman's best-beloved
was brought back to her? How should I
ever have forgiven myself if you had cast
your life away in the errand npon which I
had been selfish enough to send you?"
"If you had not sent me, I should have
gone," he said. "This life of mine is not
worth so much that I would not freely have
given it to save the son of Albert Churchill-
your brother, Margaret."
When he called her Margaret, she colored
and drew back. Perhaps she did not ap-
prove of so much familiarity, and thought
that she had better regain the safer distance
of her chair. But Tyrrell's hands closed over
hers, and she was captive.
"Don't go," l~e said, imploringly. "I re-
peat that I am sure this must be a dream;
but, when a man has worked long and wean-

ly, do not grudge him one short hour of happi
ness! You talk of yesterday morning ani
of this morning. Think of the contrast ti
mel Did I not believe then that I was part
ing from you forever? Yet here I am in th~
same room where you met me so coldly, am
yet where you spoke such brave, gentle words
one month ago!"
"Ah, but you know you are dreaming!'
she said, smiling.
"Am I?" he said, with sudden passion~
"Then God knows such a dream is worth
more than all my waking life besides! Yel
it is a good thing to be alive!" he went on a
little wistfully. "It is a good thing to come
hack to the earth which is brightened by such
a face as yours. But, 0 Margaret! what shall
I do when that face goes out of my life
again?"
"it need not go, unless you desire it,"
she answered, gently. "I told you yesterday
that it was impossible we could be friends. I
tell you now that we shall be proud and happy
to claim you as a friend-if you will let us
do so,"
" We? Do you mean your brother as well
as yourself?"
"Yes, I speak for Hugh as for myself.
'We Churchills always think alike on a point
of honor,"' she said, quoting Hugh's words,
half proudly. "You have conquered him,
Mr. Tyrrell; and I can assure you that, when
Hugh is conquered once, he~ is conquered for
good."
"And Hugh's sister, when she is conquered
once, is she conquered for good?"
"Always," she answered, looking at him
with her frank, loyal eyes. "You may count
Margaret Churchill your friend for life."
"Ah, but I fear I shall never be content
with Margaret Churchill as my friend for life,"
he said. "She must be something nearer and
dearer to me than that-or else not so much.
Her kindness-even such kindness as this-is
too dangerously sweet if I cannot hope for
more. No, Margaret, it will not do," he
went on, as he met her reproachful glance.
"I cannot play such an empty part as to talk
of friendship with love burning at my heart.
I know you think lam i~ngenerous to speak
of this at a time when Cseem to have estab-
lished a claim upon you; but I am sure you
will do me the justice to believe that I have
no desire to obtain from your gratitude what
I could not win from your love."
5

VENDETTA.                              01
"Yes, I acquit you of that," she said, in
I a low voice. "But why not be content-"
"With your friendship? That is asking
a little too much of a man who has loved you
with hopeless passion for five years, Marga-
I ret. I see how it is," he went on, as she
3 turned her face from him. "You waive the
old enmity enough to admit me as a friend,
but honor, pride, conscience-God only knows
what-will not let you waive it enough to
even think of a nearer tie."
She did not speak, but, by an impatient
gesture, she seemed to deny this interpreta-
tion.
"Then it is I-the individual man, not
the son of Henry Tyrrell-who have no pow-
er to please, no hope to win you," he said,
with a quick sigh. "Well, there are some
things that come not at one's desire, and
which no man is strong enough to win. The
fancy of a woman's heart, they say, is one of
these. But you might have let me think that
it was the ~old vendetta, Margaret. You
would have been none the poorer, and I
much the richer for that consolation."
"Did I say what it was?" she asked,
suddenly flashing her face round upon him
with impetuous passion burning on her cheeks
and flooding her eyes. "Did I even-even
say it was any thing?"
"Margaret!" he cried.
He sprang up, but, as he did so, she tore
her hands from his grasp, and would have
retreated if he had not caught her in his
arms.
"Let mc go, Mr. Tyrrell," she said. "This
is not generous."
"One word, Margaret," he said. "You
must answer the question now which you did
not answer yesterday. Tell me only this: if
you and I had met as other people meet-no
barrier of past bitterness between us-could
you have learned to love me then? if you
can only say 'Yes '-0 Margaret, trust me,
no effort shall be wanting on my part that
you may learn that lesson yet."
He spoke with a passion that might have
touched any woman's heart to the core, but
Margaret Churchill only looked up in his face
and laughed.
"Do you think love is ever learned?" she
asked. "If so, it must be an exotic, Mr.
Tyrrell, which cannot be worth very much.
I do not know, but it seems to me that the
only love which is worth receiving-and doub-

O


HUGH'S VENDETTA.

ly the only which is worth giving-is that She laughed again; but something in the
which comes as unfettered and untaught (I eager, anxious pleading of his face made her
had almost said unsought), as the free sun- answer him without further prevarication:
'light from heaven."                        " That love," she said, softly, "I have
" And that love, Margaret ?"          always given you."

I-.
'c TELEN, is it possible that you have
LJ.not finished that letter yet ?"
It was a weary and slightly-plaintive voice
that came from one of the deep bay-windows
of the library at Trefalden Manor, and made
the girl addressed raise -her head quickly
from the table over which she was bend-.
ing.
" Why, Rafe !1" she said, with a little
start ; then added, in an ordinary tone: " I
did not know that you were there, dear. Yes,
I will finish in a minute. But it is such an
important letter that I must be specially care-
ful about it, you know." '
"No, I don't know," responded the same
voice, this time a little perversely. " I can't
see any reason why you should be specially
careful in addressing Miss Oheriton."
" Consider Miss Cheriton in the light of
Harry'sfancie-is there no reason, then ? "
" Less than ever, if that be possible."
" Well, I have not time to argue with you
now. I must finish the letter and take it to
Aunt Maida for inspection. After that, I
shall be at your service."  *.
Silence after tbis-silence only disturbed
by the movement of Helen's pen across the
paper, and the soft swaying of the' green
boughs that drooped before the open window.
A few stray gleams .of gunshine only found
admittance through the jealous curtain of
shade, and-danced and flickered about-some
on the book-lined walls, some on the polished
floor - as the summer breeze capriciously

tossed the rustling leaves outside. One of
these golden intruders fell across the girl's
white dress, danced to and fro across her pa-
per, and seemed to linger tenderly over the
slender hand as she made a final flourish of
her pen at the bottom of the page, and then
pushed it from her.
When she lifted her face it looked pale
and somewhat weary. Yet, even with these
disadvantages, the summer sunshine might
have travelled far before it would have found
a lovelier face on which to rest. The com-
plexion was stainless of color as marble, the
features were exquisitely delicate, the eyes
large and dark, and the hair of that rich, red
gold which is at once the rarest and most
beautiful tint known to Nature or to art.
There was something exceedingly quaint in
her style of beauty; and, notwithstanding
that one glance at her face might have proved
to the dullest comprehension that here was
one of the exceptional women who could say
with Cleopatra-
" Like the moon, I make
SThe ever-shifting current of the blood,
According to my humor, ebb and flow "-
there was also a childlike simplicity and
grace about her which made a strange and
attractive contrast to her extraordinary beau-
ty. Indeed, the full revelation of this beauty
had yet to come to Helen Trefalden. As she
stood up now, and, pushing back her hair with
a tired-gesture, looked into a large mirror op-
posite, she knew, of course-she would have
been blind if she had not known-what rare
loveliness was imaged there. But she real-

02

I

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

T HE ENxD.


MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

64

ized no more than the merest child what a
potent power in the world-a power setting
at defiance all other powers-such loveliness
could be made.
" Rafe, dear," she said, " on considera-,
tion, I won't take this letter to Aunt Maida
just now. She is probably asleep, and I
should only disturb hr. Shall I bring the
German grammar, an et us study our lesson
together ?'-
"Not tb.day," was the answer. "It is
too warm for German. In fact, I think we
have fagged away at it long enough. Come
here-let us be idle and talk." -
Helen obeyed, but it was rather slowly.
Her lagging step, and a slight contraction of
the brows, seemed to indicate that she would
rather have been left alone ; but still she
summoned a smile as she drew back the cu.-
tains and faced a small, delicate cripple-boy
or man, it was bard to say which-who lay
on a couch under the open window,.
"Well," she said, "here I am. What
Millyo have ?" .
" Sit down," he said. "I want to look at
you.
yoShe sat down without any demur, and re-
turned the gaze which he bent on her. Yet
this was no trifling thing to do, for many
people found Rafe Trefalden's eyes exceed-
ingly hard to meet. people, in especial, who
had any thing to conceal, always grew un-
comfortable when those bright, hazel eyes
rested on them-eyes which looked as if they
might have read, not only the face, but the
heart and mind as well; whichrwere luminous
with intellect, full of a certain satirical hu-
mor, and sometimes (not always ) shining
with a tender beauty which made his cousin
think that he had not been ill-named Raphael,
after the angel of God. Although he looked
so young, he had reached the full years of
manhood ; though, as far as practical useful.-
ness went, manhood was to him at most only
an empty name. He had been a cripple since
early childhood. But for this, "he might
have been any thing," his teachers always
said ; and his parents-whose only other son
was by no means -intellectually gifted-felt
the disappointment so bitterly that it almost
weaned their affection from the unconscious
cause of it. There was no want of kindness,
no want of tender and considerate care ; but
there was a want of that golden sympathy
without which human hearts shrivel and be-

come like unto the dust beneath our feet.
Into this state Rafe Trefalden was drifting
when an influence which was to save him en-
tered his life. He was fifteen when a young-
er brother of his father died, leaving an insol-
vent estate and an orphan child. The estate
Mr. Trefalden handed over to the dead man's
creditors ; the.'child he brought home and
adopted into his own family. " As she grows
older, she will be of great service to you," he
said to his wife, who was a languid invalid ;
and his prophecy was amply verified: for, as
the little Helen grew older, she became vir-
tually her aunt's right hand, doing every
thing brightly and cheerfully which a paid
companion would have done as a matter of
taskwork and duty.' But, above all, she was
Rafe's friend, companion, pupil, and sister.
The affection between these two was singu-.
larly touching in its depth and intensity.
For ten years they had shared every feeling
in common, until of late a slight cloud of re-
serve had risen between them which Rafe
was plainly determined should be dissipated
now.
" Helen," he said, quite abruptly, " of
course nobody else could see it; but I see
that you are suffering"
Helen smiled-not brightly, nor yet sadly,
but with an expression between the two.
" Not much, dear," she said. " And you
may trust me that it will soon be less."
"It almost kills me to think that a man
like that has power to make you suffer for a
moment."
"Don't blame him, Rafe," she said, with a'
sudden mixture of gentleness and contempt.
" He is weak, you know, and easily swayed by
whatever face is near him. Then it would
-have been hard if he had been bound by a
boy and girl fancy. He went into the world
and forgot it. I stayed here and remembered
it. That is all."
" He is the first Trefalden whom I ever
knew or heard of without a sense of honor,"
said Rafe, bitterly. 4
"That is where you do him injustice,"
said Helen, quickly. " I am sure he does not
even imagine that 'he was in any manner
bound to mec. Don't you know how different-
ly a man of the world looks at these things ?
I assure you I do not blame any thing but my
own folly. I understand all the rest so
well."
" And you don't understand that ?"

I

I

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

65

I,

3                        ,'

.".o, Ion't understand that. However, there was any need to "fear" for his cousin
iisnot any thing which it matters about un- --any need to think that she was not able to
drtning. What is to be borne, I can   guard her own dignity--but his heart yearned
bear, Rafe. You may be sure of that." over her pain almost as a mother's might have
"I am sure of it, dear," said Rafe, gently. done; and day by day he grew more nervous
"And pray remember that I am neither as the time appointed for his brother's return
so weak nor so unjust as to feel any bitterness approached.
toward Miss Cheriton. lEvery word of that It was not more than a week after Helen
letter I wrote as willingly as Aunt Maia her- wrote her letter to Miss Cheriton that this
self could have done. When she comes, 1 august personage arrived. He came late one
shall be as warmly disposed to like her as night, and was not seen by any of the family
every one of Harry's kindred should be dis- until the next morning, when, descending to
pose to like Harry's future wife." the breakfast-room, he found that, instead of
"I th at a cut at me, Helen ?"         the donfestic circle he had hoped to see as.
"oIever make cuts at you, Rafe ?"   sembled, his brother Rafe was in solitary oc-
Itounde  like it," said Rafe, laughing  cupation of the field. There had never been
alte.s " HYou know very well that one, at any love lost between these two brothers, and
leso  arry'srkindred is by no means dis- they exchanged a very indifferent greeting
posd t  lkHary' ftre wif."    .        now.
"oud don't know it, Rafe, but you're "So, you've - got back at last, Harry 1"
prejudied.                                said Rafe. " How are you, pray ?"
"Iprejudiced!" said Rafe, indignantly. "Very well, indeed, thank you," respond.
"How often have I told you that I am a phi- ed Harry, carelessly. " How are you? "
losopher, Helen, and that philosophers are "I am as usual, thanks."
never prejudiced ! You are like all the rest of " And how are all the rest ? How is my
your sex. You don't understand that calm, mother?"y
dispassionate mode of judging which puts any " Much better within the last week or
bias of like or dislike entirely aside." two, I think."
".No, I don't understand it," said Helen,  " And my father and Helen? "
smilig faintly; "and I am inclned to think " Quite well, I believe."
that, notitstanding all your pains, I never  A few more domestic commonplaces were
shl understand it. There is one thing, how- exchanged, and then the elder brother saun-
ev eri ne, kth dty  mus dt po ie me.  Meet  tered to the window.
Mis C eio   idy    n   o' hill her  as    "It  looks  pretty  out on  the terrace,"  he
you chl some people-." said. "I believe I will take a turn, until'
"ust I promise it for your sake, Helen?" breakfast is ready. You will excuse me,
"es, promise it for my sake ; and re- Rafe ?"
member that I shall exact a strict perform. But, much to his surprise and not at all
ance of the promise." to his gratification, Rafe volunteered to ac-
hI d on't think I ever made a promise company him. " You can't go far," he said;-
which I did not keep," said he, gravely. "And "and I am good for a short distance. Will
yet my heart misgives me about this girl and you hand me my crutches, there ?"
her visit, Helen. Somehow or other I am The crutches were handed over, and they
sure that harm will come of it." -set out together. The summer morning met
"I don't see any possible harm that can them with a perfect burst of loveliness, as
come of it," said Helen, flushing. "You need they stepped through the window. Roses
not fear for me, Rafe, if that is what you were climbing -and clustering everywhere,
meanwhile beyond were the smooth lawn, park-
"I never feared for you in my life, dear," like shrubbery, and, farther still-over beyond
answered Rafe. "It would be rather late to the orchards and mneadows--a curtain of mist
begin now-." which marked the river, as it wound along
It is one thing, however, to make an as- the rich lowlands, the soft, blue'hills melting
"sertion, and quite another to fulfil it in spirit away on either side. Trefalden gave a slight
and letter. Rafe Trefalden would have scorned whistle as he stood still and -looked around.
himself if he had suspected for a momentthat It had been two years since he saw the Manor


66

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

last, and all impressions faded quickly from
his mind.
"By Jove, it is lovely 1" he said. "I
don't believe' there's a prettier place in the
country Rafe, I never saw any thing to
equal it."
"It is certainly lovely," said Rafe, to
whom. the Manor was, next to Helen, the
dearest thing in the world. "I di.d not know
how it would strike a travelled gentleman like
yourself," he went on, with an inflection of
sarcasm, which his brother knew very well.
"I am gratified to see that you appreciate
it."
"By George! nobody could help appreci.
ating it," said Trefalden. "I don't think it
could be improved. By.the.by, are any of
the country neighbors worth cultivating P We
shall need to be quite gay in the course of
the next fortnight, you know." ~(Qminous si-
lence on Rafe's part.) "Miss Cheriton would
die of the vapors, if we condemned her to a
family party all the time. Have any plans for
her amusement been made?"
"That is more than I can tell you. I
have made none. I won't answer for the
others."
"You see she leaves the gayest kind of
a life in the city, to come down here; and
so, of course- By Jove, Rafe! who is
that?"
"Have you managed to forget Helen as
well as the Manor, in the course of two
years P". asked Rafe, with not a little bitter.
ness..
But, for once, the bitterness escaped his
brother's ear. He stood still and gazed in
astonished admiration at the picture which
a turn of the path disclosed to him. It was
only Helen; but Helen was in herself a mar-
vel, on that bright summer morning, standing
among the roses like another I'rosel~pine. She
did siot see the two young men, for her face
was turned aside as she clipped right and left
with her large garden-shears, and filled the
basket which hung on her arm with roses of
every, hue and kind. As they paused, she
was in the act of reaching after a large bud
which hung just above her head. Catching
the bough, she sent a shower of glittering
dew and perfumed petals down upon her face,
but, in spite of both, broke off the coveted
blossom triumphantly, and then, turning, all
in a glow, faced her cousins.
Rafe, who watched her nervously, was re-

lived to see that she neither started nor
turned pale. She looked a little surprised,
then smiled, and advanced with outstretched
hand.
"Welcome hack, Harry," she said. "We
began to fear that you had quite 1:orsaken
us."
"There was no danger of that," said Har-
ry, a little breathlessly. "I am amazingly
glad to get back," ,he went on, holding her
hand, and gazing into her face with an admi-
ration which enraged Rafe. "What have you
been doing to yourself, Helen?" he cried, sud-
denly. "You were not always as pretty as
this, surely?"
"One is not able to decide upon one's own
looks," said Helen, smiling; "but I don't think
I have improved much in these two years. In.
deed, Aunt Maida says that I have decidedly
goue off."
"Mamma must be blind, then. - Rafe,
don't you think that she has improved won-
derfully?"
But, before Rafe could reply, Helen inter.
posed.
"You ought to remember I have not been
~accustomed to compliments since you went
away. Besides, I can't stop to hear them
now. Breakfast will be ready-I only came
out for some roses to fill the vases."
"And we only came out in search of you,"
said Harry. "So we will go back now."
Back accordingly they went-Rafe limp.'
ing grimly along, while his brother's ready
compliments flowed with a facility which
proved an extensive practice in this branch
of social accomplishment. With this, as with
every thing else, however, there is a great
deal in being inspired; and no better inspira-
tion could have been asked than Helen's face,
as it looked up at' her cousin. During all
these years spent among women who were
famous beauties and belles, Henry Trefalden
had seen no face to comparewith it; and the
realization of this fact came to him with an
amazement too deep for words.
Occasionally he had thought, with half-
amused tenderness, of the pretty cousin far
away in the green solitudes of the Manor, for
whom he had once had a boy's sentimental
fancy; but that' the pretty cousin was in
reality such a woman as the one before him,
had never for a moment occurred to his mind.
He had forgotten her face as completely as
he had forgotten to how much that aentimen-

I

a
0
CU
a;
4

a


4

tal fancy of which he thought so lightly had
bound him. Such volatile, impressionable
people ~re common enough in the world. No
man would have stood more stanchly by a
point of honor (understood as such) than
Trefalden; but, what with a mind from which
impressions were easily effaced, and a heart
on which impressions were easily made, and
a convenient habit of ignoring whatever
chanced to be in the least degree disagree-
able or embarrassing, he had managed to
drift into a position which would have star-
tled him if he could have seen it with-the
eyes of his brother, for instance.
Fortunately, however, we do not "see our-
selves as others see us," and so we are spared
some very shocking disclosures with regard
to the opinion in which we are held by our
friends and relatives. Trefalden was in the
best possible spirits, the best possible humor
with himself and everybody else, as he saun-
tered along between his brother and his cous-
in, both of whom were puzzled, and one of
whom was indignant at his light unconscious-
ness.
~LWhat does he mean?'~ thought Helen,
wistfully. "Surely he has not forgotten-
every thing!"
"The insolent puppy!" thought Rafe.
"He believes he can amuse himself with
Helen, whenever he has nothing better to
do."
Trefalden, meanwhile, was talking in the
gayest and, as he flattered himself, the hap.
piest strain imaginable.
"What delightful times we used to have,
Helen!" he was saying. "They would be
worth living over again, wouldn't they? Do
you remember our rows on the river? By-
the-by, is the boat in good order? I must
certainly take you out again, and then we can
talk over the old days at our leisure."
"I don't think you would find much that
was worth talking over," said Helen. "Old
days do well enough for sentiment, you know,
but not at all for active interest.-Ah! we
a~e just in time. breakfastt is ready, and
here comes Uncle George."
Mr. Trefalden entered the dining - room
door as the group of three made their ap-
pearance through the window. He. was a
handsome, middle aged gentleman, of ~ery
reserved mannered, who shook hands with his
son as if they had met the week before, and
nodded to Rafe and Helen.

"Glad to see you hack, Harry," he said.
"I hope you mean to spend some time with
us. The country's pleasant just now, and
quite a relief from the city, I should think.
I trust you left Miss Cheriton well?"
"Quite well, thank you, sir," said Harry,
who knew his father too well to feel at all
chilled by this reception. "She sent her
kind regards to my mother and yourself, and
hopes to see you soon," he went on. "Her
aunt and herself think of coming down next
week."
"Your mother is very much pleased with
her letter," said Mr. Trefalden, as if thewhole
affair was a matter of the most profound in-
difference to him. "I believe she mentioned
the 20th as the date on which she will leave
the city-was it not, Helen?"
During breakfast Mr. Henry Trefalden
decidedly monopolized conversation, talking
gayly of himself, his friends, and affairs, es-
pecially his plans for the next few weeks, 4
.propor of which he announced, in an off-hand
kind of way, that "Latimer" was coming
down to spend some time with him.
Questioned regarding who Latimer might
be, it transpired that this was a person whom
not to know argued one's self unknown.
"Is it possible you never heard of him?"
Trefalden asked. '.' So much for human great-
ness-and Latimer is* a very great man in his
own circle."
"Is it the Latimer of whom you used
to talk when you were at college?" asked
Helen.
"The very same."
"And in what respect has he become dis-
tinguished?'~
"In his profession, for one thing. Young
as he is, he has already the reputation of
being one of the ablest pleaders and more.
brilliant speakers at the bar. :His intellect
is said to he so keen that even the oldest
lawyers quail before him."
"I hope we shall not imitate their exam-
ple," said Helen, laughing. "And is.j he
equally a conquering hero in society?"
"Equally so. In fact, he has been the
rage for a season or. two; and any one who
did not know him intimately could not have
imagined that the indifferent hero 'of dinner~
parties and balls was, at the same time, the
hardest-working student possible to imagine.~
In his profession he has an amount of energy
that I have never seen surpassed; but in sot-

67

I

I

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

1


68                        MISS CHERIT
ciety you would think that his sole aim in
life was to kill time and avoid being bored."
"He must be very affected."
"No, for there's a certain charm about
him with it all. Women, by the scores, fall
in love with him; and it is only friendly to
give you a hint to look after your own heart."
"Thank you," said Helen, smiling. Then
she rose from the table. "I must go to Aunt
Maida now," she said. "I will send you
word whether or not she feels well enough to
see you this morning."
"Bring inc word, please," said be, rising
also, and walking with her into the ball.
"Don't press mamma to see me, if she's not
well enough," he went on. "You know 1 am
good for a month at least. Indeed, I am not
sure that I shall ever go away again. Every
thing is so charming."
"I am glad you think so," said she, qul.
etly; "but our monotonous life would soon
grow very tiresome to a fashionable gentle.
man like yourself. If you support it with
philosophy for a month, I shall be aston~
ished."
"That is because you don't know-"
" What?" (as he paused.)
"Oh! a good many things. Myself for
one-yourself for another."
"And Miss Cheriton for a third, no doubt.
Well, I trust you may find us moderately en.
pertaining. At least, we have every desire to
be so."
"And, with the desire, the power-not to
be moderately entertaining, but to be danger-
ously charming "-(adding, as he saw her col-
or and draw back)-" 1 think 1 ought in eon-
wcU~.a and warn 14a1 mu'."
." Do," said she, trying to speak lightly;
give you leave to paint me in any colors
sufficiently formidable to keep him away.
* And now a truce to nonsense, Harry-pray
move aside and let me pass. Aunt Maida
will wonder what keeps me."
"And when shall I see you again?"
~t dinner, probably."
"Oh, no, no!" (imploringly.) "I shall
smoke a cigar on the terrace, and wait for
you-as I used to do. Pray, come, Helen; I
have so much to talk to you about."
"It is impossible for me to promise," said
Helen, coldly. "Aunt Maida usually keeps
me some time. Good-morning."
"I shall certainly look for you, and wait
for you," said he.

ON'S RIVAL.
But he looked and waited in vain. The
morning passed, and no Helen came. Poor
Helen! She was in her own room, fighting a
battle with herself, of which that loiterer
among the roses never even dreamed. His
utter uncotisciousness was in a manner worse
than if he fully realized all that he had done.
"It is I who have been mistaken from first to
last," she thought; and that bitter sense of
having given her heart unasked-the most
bitter in The world to a sensitive woman--
rushed over her like a flood. She could only
soothe itby recalling words and tones which
Trefalden himself had entirely forgotten, but
which would certainly have startled him rude-
ly if they could have faced him instead of
those pleasant visions which curled before
him with the smoke of his cigar.
II.
DURING the next week, Helen had a diffi-
cult and very trying part to play, for Trefal-
den was one of the large class of men who
always make love to the lips that are nearest,
without any regard to ties which may bind
them to lips farther off~ His patronizing fan-
cy for his pretty cousin, his continual refer-
ence to those past days of which he thought
so lightly, and his sublime consciousness of
the fact that she desired to avoid him, all con-
spired to make this week something of a
nightmare to the girl-so much of a night-
mare, indeed, that she was heartily glad when
th~ day appointed for Miss Cheriton's arrival
drew near.
Punctual, for once, to an appointed date,
this young lady came-her aunt and her maid
and her trunks and herself-creating a sensi-
ble commotion in the Jfinnor, ~whieh had long
been unused to such fashi~nableinciir5ion5.
Being a beauty and a belle, Miss Cheriton
was well used to creating a commotion, how-
ever; and it is doubtful if she would have
thought that her mission in life had been ac-
complished without the ~ck4 and noise which
invariably attended her steps. Her aunt was
a wealthy and childless widow, who was chief
among her loyal subjects, and whose indul-
gent partiality was returned by the most op-
pressive tyranny that can be imagined. "0
Louise!" the poor ladywould say when un-
usually ruthless demands were made upon
her time, her patience, or her purse. But
the force of expostulation never went further
I than this, and Louise never failed to come off

MISS CHERI'

victor from any and every conflict that oc-
curred. There had been some such faint
show of resistance over this visit to Trefalden
Manor. Mrs. Surrey had been opposed to it,
but Louise had borne down all opposition in
her imperious way. "If you dt~n't want to
go, auntie, you need not, of course," she
said; "but I'm going, you know." In this
view of the ease, what could poor Mrs. Sur-
rey do but go also? "You will be sorry,
Louise, if you should not marry young Tre-
falden, after all," she said; "and I know you
too well to be certain you'll marry him until I
see you at the altar." "I'm not at all certain
myself;" returned Louise, carelessly; "but
they say it is a beautiful old place, and I
mean to go and see it'
The beautiful old place was accordingly
honored by this condescension, and roused
by the tide of life that rushed into it. The
sober drawing-room of the Manor scarcely
seemed like itself; Helen thought, as she
looked round, on the evening of Miss Cheri-
ton's first appearance. Besides the family
and the two newly-arrived guests, was a third
stranger who had come down to the city in
Miss Cheriton's train, or, at least, on the same
train as that young lady. This was Harry's
distinguished friend, Mr. Latimer.
"If I had not been told that he was dis-
tinguished, I should never have suspected
it," said Helen, aside to Rafe.
"Not at first, perhaps," the latter an-
swered, "but afterward I think you would.
He has more sense than I should have given
the man whom Harry described, credit for.
Look at his brow and at his eyes!"
"But he is not handsome at al1~" said
helen, halt dissppo'intcd. Certainly she was
right. Mr. Latimer was not handsome -
thoroughly high-bred and refined in appear-
ance, but undoubtedly not gifted with any
trump cards in the way of good looks. He
was small and slender, with a thin, dark face,
black hair, a heavy black mustache, and eyes 4
that should have been black also, but wer~, I
instead, of a deep violet blue, fringed by the
longest and darkest of lashes - very hand-
some eyes, and eyes that were singularly cx- -
pressive, but, unfortunately, so near-sighted
that he could not have recognized his own I
mother at a distance of tea paces. He man- a
aged, however, to discover something in Helen I
which struck him as sufficiently attractive i~
to induce him to cross the floor and make his a

FON'S RIVAL.                           69
first effort toward cultivating her acquaint-
ance.
"Won't the beautiful evening tempt you
to follow Miss Cheriton's example and go out
on the terrace, Miss Trefalden?" he asked.
"Miss Cheriton is a stranger, sand has
been taken out to admire the view," an-
swered Helen, smiling. "You can imagine
that it would not have the merit of novelty
to me."
"But I am a stranger, too, and, though
views are mostly of small importance to rae,
owing to my infirmity of vision, still I like to
see what can be seen. Perhaps, however"
(noticing that she hesitated), "you don't feel
inclined to play cicerone~"
"Indeed, yes. 1 am too fond of the Manor
not to be fond also of showing it ofl'.-Rafe,
will you come?"
Mr. Latimer courteously seconded this re-
quest; but Rafe had sufficient discretion to
excuse himself on the score of dew; so the
others went off alone. The soft, fragrant
evening seemed to be holding the world in a
spell of beauty when they came out- the
west was still glowing, and Venus alone was
visible, holding her court with all the clear
heaven to herself; above the golden fringe of
sunset clouds.
"It is rather too late for distant effects,"
said Latimer, "but every thing near at hand
is lovely. What an exquisite old place! Ivy
and roses, and-and, as 1 live, a bed of lilies!
Lilies are one of the few things that still re-
tain the aroma of youth for znc-l mean the
aroma that every thng beautiful has fDr us
in youth. Miss Trefalden, may I have a
1i1j~' ~"
"As many as you like, Mr. Latimer,1' said
Helen, putting out her hand with a smile.
She broke off one of the tall flowers, and, as
she turned and held it toward him, Latimer
rlm~st caught his breath. At that moment,
~ie could liken her to nothing save the Angel
)f the Annunciation. The slender, stately
Igure, dressed in pure white, stood 4~ined
Against the golden background of the western
ky, and the whole scene, with its accessories
-the hair which seemed to make a halo of
;lory about her head, the stainless lily in her
iand-stamped themselves on his memory,
nd were ever afterward summoned before
im by the mere fragrance of that flower,
~hich he had said alone retained for him the
roma of youth.


F

'TO                       MISS CHERIT
"Does not this suit you?" asked Helen,
who saw his hesitation, but had not vanity
enough to suspect its cause.
"No other one could suit me half as well
as the one you have been kind enough to
choose for me," he answered, taking it as he
spoke. "Now that I have it, it is like many
another good gift of earth," he added, philo-
sophically-" rather cumbersome and difficult
to dispose of. What shall I do with it, Miss
Trefalden? It is rather large for my button-
hole, don't you think so?"
"I'm afraid I must candidly say that I do.
Suppose you give It tome if you are tired of
it.~ it will do for my hair."
"I will give it on one condition."
"What is that?"
"That I may claim it again after you have
worn it."
"There must certainly be sometbh~g very
light about me," thought poor Helen. "Here
is another man trying to amuse himself by
paying me foolish compliments." Said she
aloud, with very graceful dignity, "I'm afraid
you forget how many other lilies there are
near at hand, Mr Latimer."
"For yourself, or for me?"
"For either or both. For me, that I may
be quite independent of such an arbitrary
condition-for you, that you may appreciate
how much better fresh lilies are than faded
ones."
"Suppose I have a fancy to prefer a faded
one?"
"I decline to suppose any thing of the
kind. You won't force me to the conclusion
that you arc a very foolish person, and that
would be foolish, you know."
"Genius has its eccentricities," said Lati-
mer, gravely. "Only shallow minds call them
folly, and I'm sure you won't force me to
the conclusion that you have a shallow
mind."
"I should be very sorry to do so, certain-
ly,1' said Helen; laughing.
J~is manner they broke the ice, and
advanced toward acquaintance. From the
first, there was an attraction between them-.--
a bond of sympathy, which, in the matter of
friendship, is worth every thing else in the
world put together. It was not so muih
Helen's rare beauty that struck Latimer, as
the sweet, gracious charm of a character
which was in truth one of the most thorough-
ly sympathetic that he had ever encountered.

ON'S RIVAL.

He was a man of keen observation-a man
who could read volumes where another would
not decipher a line-but it was not so much
observation as a certain instinct which drew
him toward this girl-this fair, stainless lily,
whom Henry Trefalden had once possessed,
and cast aside for a pretty French rose of time
finest artificial make.
"Here is our best view," said Helen, paus-
ing at an angle of the terrace which over-
looked the rolling country for a mile or two
around. "It is almost too late to see it now;
but, in daylight-"
"In daylight it must be lovely," said Lat-
liner, who could barely see three yards be-
fore him. "We will certainly come out here
to-morrow and enjoy it. Then we can-I beg
pardon" (as a fan lightly tapped his arm)-
"is that you, Miss Cheriton?"
"Don't beg pardon for not seeing me,"
said a silvery voice, which made Helen start
in turn. "When two people are so well en-
tertained, they don't, as a general rule, see
anybody but themselves. Did I hear you
really professing to admire the scenery?"
"I usually admire as much of it as I can
see-which is not very much," said he. "We
can afford to be incredulous of beauties that
we have never seen."
"And of some which we do see-is it not
so? I don't mean any thing disrespectful to
the country, but I frankly confess that I much
prefer animate to inanimate creation-men
and women to trees and stones.-Miss Tre-
falden, you look quite shocked. If we are to
get on at all, I 'must give you warning that
my education has heen of the most frivolous
kind. I am not superior a bit-am I, Mr.
Latimer? I don't care for any thing in the
world except the German and flirtation-do I,
Mr. Trefalden?"
Said Mr. Latimer: "When a lady abuses
herself; it is a fixed article of my creed never
to contradict' her."
Said Trefalden: "Miss Cheriton can afford
to begin an acquaintance by attempting to
depreciate herself." Then, in a lower and
more sentimental tone, "You care for a few
thing~ in the world besides the German and
flirtation, I am sure.
"Yourself being one, of course," said she,
with a laugh. "Pray don't be~ too sure of
that-too much confidence is always unwise.
-But Miss Trefalden does not say a word. I
think I have certainly shocked her."

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

"Does candor ever shock us?" aske
Helen. "Don't we rather admirfi it?"
"When it suits us-perhaps so. Genci
ally, however, it is very disagreeable. If Mi
Latinser, for example, were to tell me at thi
moment what he thinks of me, I am sure
should find it very disagreeable."
"May I test that, Miss Cheriton?"
"Oh, pray do-your opinion is always a
improving. Not in public, though" (quit
hastily). "I can depreciate myself, but
will not allow any one else to depreciate mi
-when I can help it. We will walk back t~
the house, and you shall give me your dosi
of candor on the way."
"Suppose we defer it until we are in th
house," said Latirner, who saw her drift vera
plainly, and had no fancy to abandon Heler
for any thing so hackneyed as a flirtation with
Miss Cheriton.
"That means that you are anxious to de.
fer it indefinitely. Will the opinion be so very
severe that you are afraid 1 cannot bear it?"
"There is but one way to answer that
question."
"By letting me hear it, of course. May I
take your arm? Harry and Miss Trefalden
will excuse us, I am sure."
Thus unceremoniously left behind, Helen
felt amused, and Trefalden not half so indig-
nant as might perhaps be imagined. Louise
was very charming, of course, and he was ex-
tremely fond of ~her; but there was no deny.
ing the fact that she was not half as pretty
as lichen, nor-really----half so attractive. So
he placed, Helen's hand within his arm, took
up the thread of conversation exactly where
he had dropped it the evening before, and
made the path to the house even longer than
Miss Cheriton succeeded in doing.
Of this fact they had conclusive evidence
as they neared the drawing-room, from which
that young lady's voice floated out on the
still night-air. She was singing to a, harp.
accompaniment, and, stopping at the window,
Helen said, in genuine admiration, "How beitu-
tiful she looks!"
She certainly looked, if not beautiful, at
least next thing to it; for where does a pretty
woman appear to half so much advantage as
at the most graceful~instrument which the
science of harmony has ever given us? With
her white arms thrown across the golden
strings, and her face lifted toward Latimer,
so as to show off its brilliant complexion, its

d large, blue eyes, and bright, brown hair, if
Miss Cheriton was not exactly a sight to
~. make, an old man young, she was at least a
r. sight to turn a young man's head; and of
a this fact she was completely and triumphantly
I conscious.
"Yes, she is extremely pretty," said Tre.
fidden; but he said it rather coldly. "I don't
~ like flirts, though; and Louise is a dreadful
a flirt."
"I fancy it is a case of Greek meeting
a Greek, with herself and Mr. Latimer," said
Helen, laughing.
"Latimer! Oh! Latimer is a professional
lady-killer. You must take care how.you re-
ceive his attentions, my dear Helen" (this in
a tender tone of brotherly care). "I should
not like him to be able to say that he had
ever flirted with you."
"I don't think there is the least proba-
bility of his being able to say so," answered
Helen, coolly. "There! Miss Cheriton is
calling you. Had you not better go?"
Miss Cheriton had, indeed, perceived her
vassal, and did not hesitate to recall him to a
due sense of his allegiance.
"Yonder's poor Harry, sulking," she said,
in a confidential tone, to Latimer. And, not-
withstanding that there was no trace of sulk-
ing in poor Harry's appearance, she thought
it necessary to add: "I must call him, and
mollify him; but, pray, don't you go."
So Trefalden was called and mollified.
Where had he been all this time? They had
reached the house ever so long before I Miss
Trefalden was very charming, and flirting was
very nice, of course; but it wasn't very prop-
er-was it, Mr. Latimer?
Mr. Latimer replied that, in his humble
opiulon, it was a highly moral amusement,
but he would not presume to contradict such
high authority on the subject as Miss Cheriton
was well known to be.
* Mr. Trefalden protested against such a
word being applied to his cousin and himself.
They were like brother and sister had
known each other from their earliest child-
hood.
"Oh, I quite understand that kind of
thing!" said Miss Cheriton, gayly. "I had
a cousin once-a dear, adorable fellow-and,
when anybody said any thing of a disagree-
able natureI always answered: 'What! Al-
fred? How absurd! Why, I've known Al.
fred all my life.'"


T

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

"And that argument had a silencing ef-
fect, I presume?"
"Invariably. So, you see, I can appre-
ciate the full force of it."
Helen, meanwhile, entered, and looked
round for Rafe. She thought he had made
his escape, until she heard him call her name
from the back drawing-room, where the light
was dim. Following the sound, she found
him lying on a couch near the arch which
divided the apartments.
"What are you doing here, dear?" she
asked. "Don't you find it dull?"
"How could it possibly be dull with such
admirable opportunity for observing human
nature?" asked he. "Sit down, Helen. That
scene at the harp is worth studying, I assure
you. I am anxious to see how long Miss
Cheriton will succeed in keeping both objects
of her game under her hand and in full
view.
"As long as she pleases, I suppose," said
Helen. "No doubt, they are both anxious to
stay."
"Hum!" said Rafe, "I have my own
opinion on that score. However, we shall
see."
In less than five minutes they saw Lati-
mer leave the harp, and saunter up to his
hostess. Ten minutes were given to the de-
mands of courtesy. Then, by deliberate
degrees, he neared the arch where Helen
and Rafe were sitting.
" How delightfully sheltered you are!"
he said. "May I share your retreat?"
"We are Arabian in our hospitality," re-
sponded Rafe, smiling. Then, aside, to Helen:
"The question is, how long will he be allowed
to stay?"
That question was settled almost as soon
as the other. One swift glance of Miss Cheri-
ton's eyes took in the state bf affairs. Be-
fore very long, bei voice sounded a recall.
"Mr. Latimer, where have you vanished
to ?-~~ty dear, do you know where Mr.
Latir4~s ?-Oh" (with the most innocent
face imaginable), "there you are! I b~g a
thousand pardons; I had no idea y~i were so
pleasantly engaged. I was only going to say
I would sing your song for you now; but, of
course, it does not matter."
Of course, Latimer was in duty bound to
rise and go to the harp, to bend over it and
to listen, vrhile ~is song was sung with glances
that might have melted a heart of stone. Of

course, Trefalden did not find this very sooth-
ing to his feelings; so, with something of gen-
ulne indignation this time, he, in turn, sought
Helen. Of course, in due season, Miss Cheri-
ton was graciously pleased to recall him; and
so the game went on, shifting its combina-
tions, to Rafe's infinite entertainment. When
Helen bade him good-night, she could not
help asking what he thought of his future
sister-in-law; and his answer amused her a
little, for he merely shrugged his shoulders,
and quoted two lines from a ballad over which
they had often laughed:
"'He said I kept him off and on in hopes of
higher game,
And It may be that I did, mother; but who
hasn't done the same?'"
III-
DURING the next day Helen began to feel
a little puzzled, and somewhat dismayed, with
regard to Miss Cheriton. What she had ex~
pected in Harry's ftanc~e, she would have
found it difficult to define; but, at least, it
was certain thut this young lady, s~ full of
vivacity in masculine and so listless, in fe~i-
nine society-this young lady who, engagefi,
to one man, was jealously anxious, to secure
the attentions of another-did not in any re-
spect correspond with her sb~dowy idea. In
fact, she was a new revelatr6n to the girl
whose life had been formed on such a very
different model. A certain monotonous round
of duties had made the occupation of Helen's
existence; and her walks, her flowers, her
studies, and Rafe, its amusements. Was it
singular, therefore, that she listened with sur-
prise to the record of a life made up of vis-
its, balls, regattas, admirers, dresses-all the
light froth of that lightest' kind of society
which calls itself "the fashionable world?"
On her side, Miss Cheriton was, if any thing,
more astonished. That any one could really
support an existence like that of Helen was
beyond her powers of imagination. The
two women looked at each other across a
gulf which they had no means of spanning.
There was no middle ground, no neutral ter-
ritory of taste or knowledge, on which they
could meet; and such a neutral ground is
essential, not only to friendship, but to any
thing like cordial acquaintance. ~They were
both young; they were both pretty; and they
were as different as the opposite poles! Tl~e
only thing they owned in common was a cer-

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

7~3

taiu feeling of antagonism, of which Helez
was conscious in a slight and Miss Cheritox
in a very marked degree.
Other days wore not much better thai
this day; that is, there was not much mor
of a friendly understanding between the twc
women whom malicious Fate had chosen tc
array against each other as rivals. It was a
queer game of cross-purposes which went on
at the Manor during this time. Rafe, who
was a quiet looker-on, perhaps understood
more of its drift and purpose than any one
else - either then or afterward. He had
something of na interest in watching it, too,
besides his interest in Helen; for he soon
grew to like Latimer with a very cordial lik-
ing, and observation less keen than his might
readily have perceived that to this eager, am-
bitious man, this man crowned with the
world's honors, and panting for the world's
applause, the world itself began to narrow
down into that spot which was brightened by
the light of Helen Trefalden's eyes. It is
said that such an hour cones once at least in
every man's life. Whether this be true or
not, the hour certainly came to Latimer now.
Indeed, it is doubtful if he~had ever before
kn~%rn any thing more than transient fancies;
so, when the flood-gates wore lifted at last,
and~i passion stronger and deeper for the
long delay rushed in upon him, his profound
worldly training stood him iii little stead,
and he knew scarcely more than the merest
boy w~at were the chances for and against
him with the woman whom, alone of all the
wom~p'he had ever seen, he desired and re-
solved to call his own.
Alas I the verdict against him was a short
one-he came too late I There are some na-
ture~ -fortuiiately very rare ones which,
hajgoiice given affection, are wholly unable
to recall it, however cruelly it may be wasted,
however thoroughly trust may fail. Helen's
was one of these. Hers was a heart so gen-
tle, so loving, so faithful even unto death,
that ,it merited a better fate than the one
which had befallen it. This heart, which
some men would have died to win, or would
haveworn like a diamond on the breast which
had won it, this heart had been given to one
man who held it lightly in his hand till he
wearied of it, and then flung it down in the
dust of the roadside, from which not even he
cQuld ever lift it again. Rafe alone appre-
ciated this, and groaned to himself as he per-

ceived that the power which should have
made the glory and happiness of his cousins
lifc-her indomitable constancy-..was like a
sharp sword turned against herself'. It would
have wrecked his existence ,to have parted
with her, he thought, but still he could have
done it, he could have given her to Latimer,
who was worthy of her, Latimer on whom
every man's eye was turned in envy, and
every woman's in admiration; and the bitter-
ness lay in thinking that this which could
never be, might have been, but for a frivo-
lous, empty puppy (so Rafe did not hesitate to
designate his brother), with neither heart nor
soul worthy of the name.
It was small consolation to perceive how
constant and unremitting were Miss Cheri-
ton's exertions to attach Latimer to her char-
iot-wheels, and how completely they failed I
This was not only because a stronger and a,
deeper power was at work with him. Under
any circumstances, her blandishments were
too transparent, her arts were too common-
place, her object was too plain, for any hope
of success. Latimer merely laughed and
shrugged his shoulders, amused him~lf a lit-
tle-not enough to give occasion for any seri-
ous triumph-and let the battery of fascina-
tion play harmlessly on his coat-of-mail. She
wa~ a pretty woman, he told Rafe, but pretty
women were common, and, for his part, he
had been surfeited with them in the way of
flirtation. "Miss Cheriton has not even the
merit of being a first-class coquette," he add-
ed. "She goes over the beaten path, and
knows only the most hackneyed arts of her
profession." Miss Cheriton, however, did
not despair. She had that regal trust in her-
self, and in her own power of achieving any
thing, which is said to be one of the charac-
teristics of genius. She had long looked upon
Latimer with covetous eyes, and a better op-
portunity than the present her heart could not
have desired. A country-house, with unlimit-
ed opportunities for fascination, the field all
to herself, and her only rival a girl~ had
never been in society-what more pos~
sible to ask? True, success did not crown
her efforts quite as rapidly as she expected.
But she had time and strategy at command,
so she did what many an abler general has
found himself obliged to do-she waited.
Meanwhile, Trefalden-animated by Lati-
mer's example - was veering nearer and
nearer to his cousin, his fickle fancy wander-


74                   MISS CLIERITON'S RIVAL.

ing daily farther and farther from the place
where it was, or should have been, bound by
his honor. Some men do not appreciate any
thing-be it wife, or horse, or house, or Jew-
els-until it bears the stamp of other admira-
tion besides their own; and Trefalden was es-
peciall~' of this class. Helen's beauty had
very nearly taken his heart (or whatever did
duty for that organ) by storm, when he saw
her on the terrace under the roses. But
even then she had only been to him his
cousin, the "little Helen" whom he had pet-
ted and patronized in boyhood. Now all this
was c~ianged. Now he saw a woman at whom
he looked wish Latimer's eyes, admired with
Latimer's admiration, wellnigh loved with
Latimer's love-only Latimer's was the real
article, and his the spurious imitation. He
entertained a shrewd suspicion that Louise
was playing fast and loose with him, and he
would not have had the least scruple in play-
ing fast and loose with her in return. If
Helen bore the least liking to him, she had
only to give a sign. He, for his part,'was the
more ready to 'meet her half-way.
"What a glorious night P' said Latimer,
one' evening, as he stepped through the din-
ing-room window out on the terrace, where
the silver radiance of the full moon made al-
most the brightness, without any of the heat,
of day. "Isn't it possible to do something
more than merely enjoy it here? Can't we
go to the river and take a row?'~
"Charming!" cried Miss Cheriton, who
was close behind him. "Of course we can-
can't we, Harry? I should like nothing bet-
ter."
"I see no objection," said Harry. "The
boat is in order, I suppose - is it not,
Helen?"
"Yes, the boat is in very good order," an-
swered Helen; "at least it was on Saturday
morning when Mr. Latimer and myself-"
she pause~l a moment, as Miss Cheriton's eyes
turned quickly upon her, then quietly went
on en Mr. Latimer and myself took a
shor~f~.v."
"So rowing is one of the features of your
walks with Mr. Latimer?" said Miss Cheri-
ton, a little sharply. "It is fortunate that
you were careful not to say any thing about
it, or you might have had an addition to your
party, and that would not have been pleasant
-would it?"
"We are plainly expected to say No, Miss

Trefalden. Suppose we say it? I always
like to do what is expected of mc."
"Especially when it is entirely compatible
with the strictest truth," retorted the young
lady. "Of course, Miss Trefalden would say
No if she was as candid as yourself. Fray,
don't be afraid, however. We will be consid-
erate enough to do our rowing by moonlight,
so as not to interfere with yours by day.
light."
"There are two boats on the river," said
Latimer, with the utmost gravity. "If Harry
and yourself choose to follow our example to.
morrow, we will give you the full benefit and
free use of the stream."
"Thanks, for myself," said Harry, indo-
lently; "but I believe I prefer to take the
full benefit and free use of it to.night.-Helen,
shall we leave them to finish their discussion
at their leisure?"
Helen assented; but, for once, Miss Cher-
iton seemed disposed to assert a claim to her
vassal. "There is no discussion to be fin.
ished," said she, hastily. "Don't be so incon-
siderate as to carry off Miss Trefalden, Harry.
I am coming with you; but, if I go without
my scarf, my dear, foolish aunt will preach
about it for the next month. Wait for me a
moment."
She went into the house; but Harry proved
singularly disobedient to orders. "You can
wait for her, Latimer," he said. "Helen and
I will walk on slowly, and, no doubt, you will
overtake us before we reach the river."
Helen and himself walked on slowly-who
does not walk slowly' on a moonlight summer
night ?-but the re'ilt which was to follow
did not come to pass. Mr. Latimer and Miss
Cheriton did not overtake them before they
reached the river; nor, in fact, after they had
done so. Helen negative Harry's proposal
of going on the water immediately, and in-
sisted on waiting for the others; but waiting
was in vain. They did not come. And, after
nearly an hour had passed, the inference was
plain that they did not mean to come.
"We had better go back," said Helen,
gravely, for she stood in considerable aive of
Miss Cheriton's mocking tongue. "Some-
thing must have occurred to detain them,
Harry."
"Some fit of Louise's caprice has occurred
to detain them," said Harry. "Nothing else,
I am sure. She grows more wilful 'and ca-
pricious every day," he added, in a tone of

MISS CHERI

very unloverlike irritation. "We need not
let her spoil our pleasure, Helen. Since we
have walked down here, we must certainly
have a row."
"I really think we had better go back,"
said Helen. She did not like to say "we
must," for was not this Harry, and did it not
ecem absurd to think that it could possibly
be "not proper" to go anywhere with him?
Yet an instinct warned her against the pleas-
nrc which was as much a temptation to her-
self as to him, and she rose and turned away
from the river as she repeated, for the fourth
time, "We had better go back."
"Nonsense!" said Harry. "Here is the
boat-come! I assure you I am not going
back."
"But, Harry~~~
"Come!" said Harry.
He sprang into the boat as he spoke, and
pushed it near the shore, then turned and held
out his hand to assist her into it. The great,
broad river, with the moonlight silvering its
current, flowed majestically by; the drooping
shade, that fringed its banks, looked dark and
mysterious; the little boat rocked on the
water as Trefalden leaned forward, and Helen
stood on the bank-hesitating, longing-un.
able to stay, yet certain that it was unwise to
go. For a moment the soft rush of the river
was the only sound that broke the stillness.
Then-
"Helen," said Trefalden, in a tone strange-
ly earnest, "won't you come? Why should
you hesitate? Remember how oftea we have
been here before."
"I remember," said Helen, in a low voice.
"Then why should you hesitate now?
Helen "-pleadingly-" give me one happy
hour-one hour like the dear old times. It
is little to you, it is much to me-come!"
Poor Helen! Can any one blame her that I
she went? It seemed so little, and yet-it
was so much! Why should she not taste the I
happy hour of which he spoke, and dream one
last dream of the old time before she put its
memory from her forever? It seemed so lit-
tIe, and Harry was only Harry, after all; her
cousin, almost her brother, by right of long
companionship. So she laid her hand in the
one outstretched for it,~atepped into the boat, I
and a moment later the oars had been plunged
into the water, and they were gliding down ~
the stream.
It was a night of which to dream-softf a

K'

TON'S RIVAL.                         '15
magical, almost unearthly in its beauty. For
a long time they were both silent; then Tre.
fallen looked at his companion, who sat op.
polite him, and spoke quite abruptly.
"Do you know what I wish, Helen ?-.
what I would at this moment give any thing
in the world to accomplish?"
"How should I know?" asked Helen. She
did not look at him, but kept her eyes fixed
dreamily on the shore past which they were
gliding.
"I wish," said Trefalden, with passionate
emphasis, "that you and I were cut off from
every other human being, and drifting toward
a home and a life of our own, far from any-
body and everybody else of whom we know."
Helen started. There was that in the
speaker's tone which was more than his
words, and which warned her instantly that
she had been unwise to come. Something
made a great leap into her throat and, fright-
ened her. It was the very consciousness' of
her own weakness which gave her strength to
answer.
"How absurd, Harry?" she said-trying,
ah! so hard to speak lightly-" we are as
much cut oil' at present as you could possi-
bly desire. There is not the kast need to
wish for a desert island in which we could
sigh for company and civilization to our
hearts' content."
"Don't jest," said Trefalden, in a tone of
absolute pain. "Don't-~.-don't try to ward
off serious truth like this, Helen! You know
what I mean," he said, with sudden passion;
"you don't need for me to tell you how much
I love you! you must believe it, for you 'must
see how it has mastered every thought and
faculty of my whole being, until silence is
beyond my power!"
"Harry," said Helen, gravely-and some.
Ihing in her tone reminded him of the manner
[n which she had often curbed his wayward
~umors as a boy-" Harry, it is not possible
~ou mean to make me regret having trusted
myself with you? What is the sens such
vild words as these? I am loath t~iink
hat you would willingly wrong or pain me,
ret you are doing both now."
"Can I wrong or pain you by telling you
iow I love you?"
"Yes," said Helen, and a flash of very
unusual resentment came into her eyes.
'You do both, when you use such words to
ac! Do you think I am a toy to serve your


MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.

amusement?" she asked, with a vibration
of passion deeper even than his own, stirring
through her voice. "You are engagedd to
Miss Cheriton, and yet you venture to tell
me that you love me. What am I to think
of you after that?"
"To think that Miss Cheriton is nothing
to me, and that you are every thing," said he,
recklessly. "I fling hey, and every thought
of her, to the winds. I am yours, Helen, and
it is for you to say what you will do with
me."
"And your honor?" asked Helen, bitterly,
"where is that?"
Even in the moonlight sho could see that
a dark flush came over his face.
"My honor is safe in my own keeping,"
he said, haughtily. "I break no faith iz~
breaking with a woman like Louise Cheriton.
She means to marry me only in case she can.
not secure higher game. You see what she
is, Helen. You cannot blame me that I put
her out of my life without even a consider.
ation."
"But I do blame you," said Helen, coldly.
"What is more, I do not believe that a Tre-
falden can forget that a gentleman owes it to
himself to keep his faith unbroken. You are
talking wildly, Harry-you arc not yourself.
Let us try and forget this."
"You are talking the foolish common-
places of a woman," said Harry, impatiently.
"Forget it! A man does not forget what is
written on his heart in letters of fire! Helen,
you must forgive me if I speak plainly-
this is no time for paltering; and, one way
or another, my fate must be fixed to-night.
Memories which I had forgotten, or carelessly
laid aside, have come t~ me of late, and I-
I think that perhaps two years ago, you loved
me. If so, all this has come on me as a pun.
ishment for my own blind folly. Helen, was
it so?"
There was a deep silence. How could
Helen put herself in this man's power by
ack~~edging what she. had hidden so care-
fully~m every one save Rafe, and yet-
how could she deny the truth when brought
face to face with it? Such denial would have
been easy to some women, but it was not
easy to her. Truth was, and had always been,
to her a grand, severe power, with which it
was impossible to trifle. Her face was so pale
that it looked like sculptured marble in the
moonlight as she answered:

"You have no right to ask me that ques-
tion."
"I have a right," said Trefalden, vehe-
mently, "or else, by Heaven! I will make
one! Helen "- he dropped the oar, and
seized her fragile, passive hands - "you
would not evade the point if you could deny
it. You did love me, and, by that love, I
claim you. My first duty is to you-was to
you, when I forsook you for that vain, frivo-
lous-"
"Hush!" said Helen; and, by a supreme
effort, she wrenched her hands out of his
clasp, and looked at him in the silvery moon-
light with a face that was set and stew. "You
lower yourself even more than you lower me
by such words as these! I will not listen to
them. Turn the boat around, and take me
back to the shore. I demand it."
"It shall drift on forever before I turn
back, unless I hear the truth," answered he.
"Helen, you do right to resent the love of a
man who is as fickle as I have been. But
try to remember-try to be reasonable-think
that I was little more than a boy when I
left here, that I went into the world with a
head and a heart equally ready to be turned
by its follies, and that I was sufficiently un-
worthy of you to suffer the remembrance of
you to pass from me; but, in thinking of this,
that I come back from the world only to real.
ize what you are, only to see and feel how
mad I have been in leaving gold for dross,
and to place my heart again where it was
long ago-where, in truth, I think it has al-
ways been-in your keeping. Helen, surely
It is not too late?"
The passion of this appeal seemed to
shake her, for she shivered all over, then
clasped her hands firmly together, and an-
swered him gravely and sadly:
"Yes, it is too late."
"Too late!" The handsome face paled-..
flushed-and paled again. "You mean that
you have ceased to love me, or that you have
learned to love Latimer?"
"I mean," she said-and her voice seemed
to thrill him with its deep, mournful pathos-
"that it is too late for you, and too late for
me, Harry. Too late for you, because you are
engaged to Miss Cheriton; too late for me,
because, if you were free as air, I would not
marry you."
He looked at her steadily. It was a strange
duel of conflicting resolution to take place out

there on the broad, moonlit river, betwe
these two who had once loved each other wil
the tender romance of early youth.
"Why not?" he asked, huskily.
"There is no need of forcing me to te
you," she answered. "All this is very useless
Let us go back.".
"Why not?" he repeated once more, an
the deep, passionate resolve of his eyes tol
Helen that the question must be answered
that no evasion would be possible or eve
safe. Then, as it were, she girded up he
strength and answered him - answered his
in words which, to his dying day, he neve
forgot.
"I will tell you why not," she said. "I
is because I once loved you, and, through
that love, learned to know you. It is not fo:
me to speak of what I hoped - leaning or
your own promise - when you went away~
It is not worth while, either, to speak of whal
I suffered when I realized that you had quitE
forgotten me. That pain, bitter as it was, is
over now. But you took from me something
which neither you nor any one else can ever
give back." She paused a moment, and looked
wistfully away from him-far over the hills
softened by the misty moonlight, and the dark
shadows of the drooping woods-then, very
quietly, she went on: "I do not know whether
or not it was that I poured out the whole
treasure of love wastefully, and so have none
left, but my heart lies like a stone. Your
words, your tones to-night have made it ache,
but that is all. I did not realize, until I heard
you sp~ak as you have done, how far removed
you are from me. Once I was yours, to have
done with me what you would: now I could
not be more dead to you if I were in my grave.
That is my answer. So long as we both live,
there is none other possible between us2'
The clear, chill tones - chill, and yet
strangely gentle-ceased. Their last musical
vibration died away, and only the rush of the
river sounded in Trefalden's ears. He said
not a word, his lips were parched, and ha
could not speak. Something like a bitter
sense of the inevitable seemed weighing him
down. Speak? What could he say? Man
as he was, and full even t~ arrogance of con-
scious power, he felt in~ every fibre that the
resolution of this fragile girl was like iron,
that he might dash himself and all his
strength vainly against it. So he uttered
not a syllable. He only turned the boat I
6

m around, and began steadily rowing against
~h the current back to the place of landing.
As they reached the bank, and as Helen
was preparing to rise and step on shore, he
II spoke for the first time, his voice sounding
s. unlike itself and wonderfully distinct on the
still night air:
d "Helen, you need not think that I shall
d accept your decision as final. A man cannot
I, surrender without a struggle the only hope
n which makes his life. 'I love you, I have al-
r ways loved you, and I shall always love you.
a Remember this, and remember also that I
r am simply waiting to see what you will do
with this love."
Before Helen could reply, even by a single
word, there was a sound on the shore that
made them both start-a suppressed excla-
mation, a crackling twig evidently crushed
by a hasty foot, and from behind a group
of trees Miss Cheriton stepped full into the
moonlight, facing them both.
Iv.
WHEN Miss Cheriton, after considerable
delay, came out with a light scarf becomingly
twined around her, and found only Latimer
waiting for her, it is doubtful, to say the least,
if her disappointment was very extreme.-
"What, has Harry gone?" she said, in a
tone of slightly-piqued astonishment. But
Latimer's "I let him go because I thought
you might give rae this opportunity to make
my peace," was sufficient to banish any cloud
from her brow.
"Your peace!" repeated she, slipping her
white hand through the arm which he of..
fered, and leaning heavily upon it, as they
walked down the terrace steps. "You know
as well as I do that there is no peace to be
made. Of course I have no right to be of-
fended, however plainly you may show me or
tell me that you prefer Miss Trefalden's so-
ciety to mine."
"It would be unfortunate for me if I
chanced to prefer yours," said Latimer, his
cool fashion; "considering that Tre~den
han a legal claim to its monopoly."
"Not quite a legal claim yet," said she,
with superb carelessness. "And it would be
a wise man, indeed, who could prophesy with
certainty that he ever will have. That is all
nonsense, Mr. Lathner; and you know me
well enough to be sure of it."
'~Wbat is all nonsense 1"' asked Mr. Lati-

76o


MISS CHERITON'S RIVAL.                                                         MISS CIIERITON'S RIVAL.

mer. "Your engagement to Trefalden? Poor
fellow! For his sake, I hope not."
"I was not speaking of my engagement,"
said she. "But I was never one of the people
who have severe ideas about such things.
Many engagements are only made to be bro.
ken; and I am inclined to think it would be a
good thing if more of them were. If I should
think it worth while to dismiss Harry to-mor-
row, I don't flatter myself that he would suf-
fer in any way-.--save, perhaps, from a little
wounded vanity. His devotion to his cousin
is really quite edifying." (Then, after a
pause,) "I wonder ~~ota are not jealous."
"Of you? He might consider that pre-
sumptuous."
"I was not ~'peaking of myself. Miss
Trefalden, I am sure, will not think it pre-
sumptuous if you were jealous of her."
"Harry is a capital fellow," said Latimer,
who was plainly resolved against bringing
Miss Trefalden's name into the conversation.
"I really don't know a better one, Miss
Cheriton. I would think twice, if I were you,
before I made his attentions to his cousin a
reason for that dismissal of which you speak."
"You don't suppose I'm thinking of his
attentions to his cousin," said Miss Cheriton,
with a rising color, which shone even in the
moonlight. "Of course, they signifynothing,
except that he is fond of amusing himself
with anybody who is good material for amuse-
ment; and that" (with a scornful accent)
"Miss Trefalden certainly seems to be. I
was thinking ~f myself alone when I said, or
meant to say, that I should not allow myself
to be fettered by any engagement an hour
longer than I chor a to do so."
Said Mr. Latimer, in a tone the satire of
which the young lady was happily unable to
appreciate, "Your sentiments, I perceive, are
broadly liberal with regard to how far a wom-
an's word may be taken as her bond."
"~[ think that a woman as impulsive as I
am is liable to make mistakes," said she,
somewhat sentimentally; "and that it would
be ~d if my whole life had to bear the pen..
alty of them from a mistaken sense of honor
about breaking my word. Is it possible that
you would condemn me to it?"
"I!" shrugging his shoulders slightly.
"I am the most amiable man in the world. I
never condemn anybody to any thing-even
in theory. Sometimes, however, I recom-
mend them to remember that 'the quality of

mercy is not strained,' and that it is never
more gracefully exercised than by a beautiful
woman."
"Keep your well-turned periods for your
speeches!" said she, tapping him on the
arm. "Listen to me gravely and seriously
now, for I have something that I want to ask
you. Here is a pleasant place-suppose that
we sit down and talk at our leisure?"
"But the boating," said Latimer, a little
aghast. "Harry and Miss Trefalden will be
waiting for us."
"Let them wait," with admirable non-
chalance; "they are very well able to enter-
tain each other, you may be sure. I have a
fancy to sit down just here under this splen-
did tree."
"IBy all means gratify it, then," said Lati-
mer, with an audible sigh of resignation. "I
only hope we may not surprise a family party
of rattlesnakes," he added, following her ex-
ample, and seating himself on the branching
roots of a giant oak that stood by the way-
side.
But Miss Cheriton was quite insensible to
any fear of rattlesnakes. Perhaps she knew
that, as a general rule, they prefer less civil-
ized haunts. At all events, she sank down
in a picturesque attitude, and leaned against
the massive trunk, looking certainly very
lovely as the moonlight shimmered down
through the thick foliage on her white dress
and upturned face.
"Suppose," said she, after a while, "I
were to tell you that I-I had almost made
up my mind to break my engagement with
Harry. What would you think?"
Latimer shrugged his shoulders. "I should
probably think that you had grown tired of
it," said he, dryly.
"I am in earnest," said she, a little petu-
lantly. "Pray talk to me seriously and-as
a friend. I "-a droop of the head-" I am
sadly uncertain what to do, and I need the
advice of a friend very much."
"As a friend, Miss Cheriton, I should be
very happy to serve you; but advising you is
a height to which modesty forbids me to as-
-  7,
pire.
"I am sure no one could advise me better
than yourself."
"You are mistaken" - it was doubtful
whether the scene was beginning to be most
amusing or most boring to him-" a man
must have certain fixed ideas and principles

before he can venture to advise. Now, I hay
none."
"But you know what you think."
"I assure you that, nine times out of ten
I don't even know what I think. Sad, isa'
it? But you see what a very unsafe mentor:
should make."
"Still "-clinging to her point with deter
mined obstinacy - "you must advise mc
You know Harry, and-and-I think you
know me. Now, tell me frankly, do you
think there is any hope of happiness for in
together? Do you think we suit?"
"My dear Miss Cheriton," said Latimer,
laughing, "you ask me a hard question. Do
I think you suit? My impression was that
you suited remarkably well. But really, in
that, as in every thing else, the only person
able to judge is the person immediately con-
cerned?"
"You-you think I could be happy with
him?"
"He is such a good fellow, that I don't
see how any woman could fail to be happy
with him."
"It shows how little you know of me,"
said she, bitterly, and turned her face
aside.
Poor woman! The pangs of wounded
vanity are sometimes as sharp as the pangs
of disappointed love, and she was scarcely
less to be pitied because her object had been
so petty, and her means so unworthy. Wom-
an of the world as she was, she knew perfect-
ly well how far she had stooped to this man-
and, now that she had failed completely, this
knowledge was very hard to bear. At that
moment such a swift, sudden rage and mor-
tification flamed up in her heart, that she
could have lifted her hand and struck him as
he sat beside her so cool, so quiet, so entire-
ly beyond her power of moving. Years after-
ward, when their paths of life had branched
far apart, she could never even hear his name
without seeing again the silvery moonlight,
the softly-swelling fields, the gnarled roots of
the old oak, and the little scene, as brightly~
and vividly as she saw it that night, without
feeling again the same bitter tide of emotion
which she felt as she turned from him, con-
scious that he understood her, and that all
further efforts *ere hopeless.
Latimer was the first to break the silence
which ensued, speaking more gently and con-
siderately than was often the case with him.

e Perhaps he knew as well as Miss Cheriton
herself what was passing in her mind.
"Don't you think we had better go on to
, the river? It is very charming and comfort-
t able here; but, no doubt, Harry and Miss Tre-
[ falden are waiting for us."
"Certainly, by all means, let us go," said
- she, rising and accepting, without a word, the
I arm which he offered.
When they reached the river, they found,
naturally enough, that Harry and Miss Tre.
falden were gone. One of the boats had also
vanished, and Miss Cheriton declined Lati-
mer's proposal that they should embark in
the other. "We will sit here and wait
a while," said she. "If they don't come soon,
we can return to the house." She did not
add, but Latimer was perfectly aware, that
she would have gone back at once but for her
determination to avoid another long tite-d-&amp;ite
with himself. She had the desire, riot un-
common with her sex when stung by one
man's neglect, to turn to another of whose al-
legiance she was sure, to find in his homage a
salve for a wounded pride, and in his appre-
ciation recompense for the other's blindness.
It would make a queer little chapter in those
affairs commonly called "of the heart," if
many a successful suitor could know the se-
cret of the rebound in which he has caught
his prize. "I will wait for Harry," said she,
coldly. And, in truth, at that moment, she
felt a positive tenderness for Harry. He, at
least, was hers-hers triumphantly and alone
She had one faithful vassal, at least, and in
that thought was something like balm.
So they sat down under a clump of trees
and waited until round the bend of the stream
the boat came in sigbt. Its appearance was
welcome to both watchers; and, as Trefalden
-who was putting all his energy into his
strokes-sent it rapidly toward the bank, Miss
Cheriton gave undisguised expression to her
relief.
"It looks pleasant," she said, "and how
well Harry rows! I think I shall make him
take me out on the water. You "-art irre-
pressible accent of bitterness-" will be glad
of that, Mr. Latimer."
"I am always glad of your enjoyment,"
responded Mr. Latimer, in hi~ usual tone.
"But, of course, you cannot expect me to be
glad of my own desolation."
"A desolation easily consoled by Miss
Trefalden. Hush, here they come! Let u~


/

80                        MISS OLIIIRLT
say nothing, and surprise them when, they
have landed."
Never was the trite phrttse, that surprises
are always ill-judged, better exemplified than
on this occasion. The boat shot up to the
shore, Helen rose to step out, and Trefalden,
extending his hand1 stopped her.
Now, when Miss Cheriton came forward
and faced the two cousins, with all the bear-
ing of a tragedy-queen, it was certainly only
natural that they should have quailed a little.
Partly from consternation, but, more from
sheer surpr.is~, Trefalden uttered an exclama-
tion, while Helen drew back a step, saying:
"Miss Cheriton 1"
"Yes," said Miss Cheriton, in a tone
which scarcely sounded like her own, so en-
tirely was she overwhelmed by a flood of mor-
tified rage, and thatkeen, bitter sense of be-
trayal which is certainly the hardest thing in
the world to bear. "Yes, Miss Trefalden, it
is I I You did not count on a witness to your
love-scene, I suppose; but I could not resist
the temptation of letting you know that I
bad unintentionally been one, and of express-
ing "-she nearly choked here-" my appre-
ciation of tbat fine sense of honor which
seems, in an especial manner, to distinguish
your family."
"Louise," said Trefald~n, hastily stepping
forward, "you do not understand-you are
laboring under a great mistake. You.-"
"Will you be kind enough to keep back?"
said she, recoiling from his hand, and looking
et him with eyes of fiery scorn. "How do
you presume to address me, after-after what
I heard? Do you imagine that I will ever
speak to you again? Do you suppose that
oar engagement does not end this moment?
Do yen think that to-morrow I 'will recognize
you as an acquaintance? If I were a man, I
might tell you whatltbink ofyon-butawoin-
an is debarred even from the use of words I,'
"Tell me, by all means," said he, drawing
up his tall figure and looking at her bitterly.
"Perhaps I may be able to reciprocate your
good opinion. If I have talked love to another
woman, it certainly has been no fault of yours
ifyouhave notlistened toitfrom anotherman."
The truth of this taunt made it sting more
deeply than it is possible for words to cx-
press-all the more deeply1 teo, because Lati-
mer was near, and could not fail to remember
the overtures made to him less than an hour
before. First crimson, then pale, then crim-

ON'S RIVAL.

son again, Miss Llheriton set her teeth, and
answered through them, when she could suffi-
cicnUy command her voice to speak at all:
"So you think to excuse your own treach-
ery by insulting me! Such conduct is in ad-
mirable keeping with all the rest; but,
whether or not it does you credit, I leave
you to determine. As for your cousin "-
turning to Helen, who stood by, white, silent,
and stately, with one hand pressed on her
heart-" I owe her an apology for my inop-
portune appearance. It seems that, having
failed with Mr. Latinier, she has successfully
turned her attention to yourself."
"With regard to Helen," began Trefalden,
In haughty anger; but Helen silenced him by
a motion of her hand. Then, taking a single
step forward, she addressed Miss Cheriton.
"It is useless for me to say how much I
regret that this scene should have occurred,"
she said, quietly. "Since it has done so, I
see nothing for me but to retire from it. My
justification rests with my cousin; and, un-
der any circumstances, I decline to enter into
a recrimination of charges which I have toq
much self-respect either to notice or resent."
Her tone, her manner, her whole bearing,
was so full of rare and perfect dignity that,
for a moment, she almost seemed to elevate
the scene in which she chanced to play a
part, and, for a moment, absolutely made the
angry woman before her realize the humili-
ating folly of her passionate outbreak. But
it was only for a moment. The calm tones
had scarcely ceased to speak, when a scorn-
ful answer was returned.
"It would have been fortunate if your
self-respect had asserted itself a little sooner,
Miss Trefalden-let us say, for example, be.
fore you became a plaything for two men,
neither of wham has ever dreamed of* any
thing but his own amusement."
Hardly had these words been uttered,
when, to the astonishment of both Helen and
Trefalden, Latimer stepped forward from the
leafy screen where he had still lingered, and,
taking his place by Helen's side, coolly ad.
dressed Miss Cheriton:
"You have done me the honor of associ-
ating my name with that of Miss Trefalden,"
he said. "I hope she will forgive me for
making such a declaration in public, but, in
reply to your last remark, there is nothing
left me but to say that I love her as a man
only loves the woman whom he wishes to

marry, and that my most earnest hope is that
this love will one day enable me to win her."
For a minute these words were followed
by an absolute stillness. Knowing only the
artificial side of this man's character, two, at
least, of his astonished listeners were unable
to realize that it was indeed he who 'made
this simple expression of frank resolution
and earnest meaning. They looked at him in
half-incredulous amazement, while he-well,
it is doubtful whether, at that instant, he did
not forget their very existence. .At the con-
clusion of his sentence, he turned toward
Helen, and met her soft, dark, pathetic eyes.
For a minute, they stood looking at each
other in silence. Then Miss Trefalden ex-
tended her hand, with a gesture which Lati.
mer never forgot-extended it , not as she
might have done to a lover, but rather as to
a friend who had performed some generous
service in her behalf.

MISS CHERI'

T H E E N D.

EON'S RIVAL.                         81
"Thank you," she said, softly, with the
graceful and gracious charm which Nature
headset like a royal seal upon her. "You
arevery good-very kind. 1 understand why
you have spoken, but you must try to for-
get-" She stopped suddenly, and pressed
both hands ever her heart. Something like
a look of terror came into her eyes. She
struggled for a moment with an incapacity to
speak, then, saying brokenly, "It is too
late!" fell forward.
Latimer caught her in his arms, and, kneel-
ing with one knee on the ground, supported
her figure. At first he thought she had only
fainted-but, in a few minutes, the awful
truth came to him. The fierce strain of emo-
tion had done its work with merciful quick-
ness. Too much of sharp tension had been
laid on the heart, and the great organ of life
had ceased its work forever. Miss Cheriton's
unintentional rival lay dead before her.


I

If

MY S T ORY.

tall oaks seemed pointing like spectral fingers
to the lowering sky. It was not a particular-
ly cheerful afternoon for out-door exercise;
but down the steps I went, and was soon
tramping along the avenue as if Intent on an
errand of life and death. How clearly I re-
call, at this moment, the peculiar, pungent
odor of the dead leaves over which I trod!I
If I should live to count fourscore years, I
think this fragrance of the autumn will al-
ways bring back with strange vividness that
gray afternoon rapidly closing into twilIght,
the sobbing miserere which the bare trees
seemed to be sighing over their fallen glory,
and the 'shabby little figure in a much-worn
shawl, executing a movement very like a mili-
tary "double-quick" toward the gate.
Fortunately, this gate was not very dis-
tant, and I reached it before long. There I
paused, and, leaning my head against the
bars, looked as wistfully through them as if
I had been a Peri, and the common, beaten
high-road running past, a paradise. As I
look, I remember that a wild desire came
over me to lift the heavy latch and go forth
to the freedom which lay beyond. What if I
was but a girl-a homeless waif whom Uncle
Kendall fed and clothed out of eharity-the
world was wide, and surely somewlhere within
its borders I should find the loving hearts
and the happy home of which I dreamed.
God knows my life has not been a bright one
since that time, but something like the pity
which we feel for a stranger comes over me
as I think of the desolate child who stood
there on that evening--burning with a fierce
fever of unrest, and pondering in the vague,

AS clearly as if it were yesterday, I re-
member that sombre November even-
ing when I met Ross Kendall first. The lux-
ury of a fire in my own room was an extrava-
gance unknown in the close economy which
governed the domestic arrangements of Ken-
dall Manor. Tired, therefore, of my seat in
a corner by the sitting-room fire; tired of
watching Uncle Kendall's grave, rugged face,
as he sat with an account-book open on his
knee, running his bony finger slowly down the
column of figures, and only acknowledging
my presence by a frown if I made any noise;
tired of seeing Mrs. Kendall (not wife, but
sister-in-law and house-keeper of this auto-
crat) nod over her knitting ; tired of the tall
eloclk's drowsy ticking in one corner; tired
of my odd, dog-eared volume of "The Days
of Bruce ;" and most tired of all of myself, I
rose at last, slipped out of the room without
eliciting any thing more than a growl from
my affectionate guardian, and, bringing a
shawl down from my chamber, wrapped it
about me, preparatory to setting out for a
walk. ,
Even yet I seem to feel the sharp, raw air
-laden with coming rain-that rushed over
me as I closed the hall-door, and stood on the
broad stone steps which led down to the ave-
nue. The sky was overcast with .lowering
masses of gray cloud,iacudding along before
some wind-storm of the upper air, and show-
ing not a single rift in their sullen gloom.
The brown earth was strewed with fallen
leaves, while the gaunt, bare branches of the


84

MY STORY.

wild fashion of' youth, whether she should not
make one desperate effort to break the dull
stagnation of a life narrow and sordid beyond
any powers of expression.
I had not quite decided the question in
the affirmative, when I heard the sound of a
horse's hoofs coming at a sharp trot along
the road. I did not even turn my head in
the direction whence the sound came. Some
belated farmer going home, no doubt, or per-
haps some one of the young gentlemen who
occasionally ro~le past Kendall-sons of the
large land-owners in its neighborhood. They
were nothing to me-I knew none of them.
Friend or associate, admirer or lover, I had
not in the world. Shielded, therefore, by the
gathering gloom, I kept my position-only
starting suddenly from my abstraction when
the horseman stopped.
Stopped at the gate of Kendall Manor!
I could with difficulty credit my eyes as I
glanced round and found a horse's nose
within a few feet of me, while his rider
stooped to fumble for the latch. Through
the falling dusk, neither horse nor rider had
perceived the humanfigure leaning against the
gate, and both were startled when I abruptly
raised my face. The horse reared backward,
his rider gave the reins a sharp jerk, and a
slight struggleensued-the gentleman saying
something which sounded rather forcible,
but which I did not hear distinctly. Then
he raised his voice and addressed me, whom
he evidently took for a loitering servant.
"Open the gate, if you please. You have
frightened my horse so that he is afraid to go
near it."
I meekly obeyed, opening the gate and
shielding myself behind it, as I pulled it
back. The horseman rode sharply in-allow-
ing his horse to look neither to the right nor
to the left-and, touching his hat slightly as
he passed me, said, "Thank you!,, I made
no reply, for I was amused by his mistake,
and did not think it worth while to undeceive
him. After he passed, I pushed the gate
back, and~ while I was lifting the latch with
both hands in an endeavor to replace it, I
was startled to find that, instead of pursuing
his way to the house, he wheeled round and
again addressed me.
"I beg pardon," he said, "I should have
asked before-is this Kendall Manor?"
"This is it," answered I, briefly; and,
having now raised the troublesome latch to

its proper place) I turned round and faced the
stranger-surely very much of a stranger who
could ask such a question as that in Essex
County, and at the very entrance of the Ken.
dali domain.
As I have sllid before, it was t~usk, but
I saw with tolerable distinctness what my
interlocutor looked like; not particularly
handsome or particularly imposing, but a
gentleman undoubtedly in air and manner-
I had seen few enough gentlemen in my life,
yet I felt certain on this point-a man who
could not have been less than thirty or more
than thirty-five apparently, who had an easy,
well-built figure, a bronze face, with a pair
of dark eyes, a firm chin, and a heavily droop.
ing mustache.
As I turned and gave the searching look
necessary to take all this in, the stranger
smiled a little, apparently at the coolness and
frankness of my scrutiny.
"Do you live here?" asked he, pointing
slightly toward the old brown house visible
through the leafless trees.
"Yes," answered I, laconically.
"Can you tell me if Mr. Kendall is at
home?"
"He was at home half an hour ego."
"Thanks; good-evening."
He touched his hat again, and this time
rode away without turning back.
I followed at my leisure-not particularly
anxious to reach the house; since there was
nothing for it now but the cheerless solitude
of my own chamber. Once or twice a year,
some stranger came to see Uncle Kendall on
business, and on these occasions I was al.
ways summarily dismissed from the sitting.
room. Doubtless, the same result would
follow on the present occasion.
My surprise was great, therefore, when, as
I opened the door half an hour later, and
stepped into the hall, cold and tired, Uncle
Kendall's voice sounded from the sitting.
room.
"Is that you, Beryl?" he cried; adding,
when I answered in the affirmative, "Come
here."
With my shawl still wrapped around me.
I obeyed, entering the sitting-room, where a
bright fire made a most unusual illumination,
and facing Uncle Kendall-seated bolt upright
in his large chair-.and the stranger for whom
I had opened the gate half an hour before.
"Come here, Beryl," repeated my uncle,

MY STORY.

S85

as I paused just within the door, feeling
strangely awkward and abashed. "Don't
look so frightened, child; nobody is going to
harm you.-.She has grown up here," he went
on, looking at his companion; "but she will
do us credit some day-eh, Ross?"
The gentleman so addressed smiled, but,
without making any other reply, came for-
ward and held out his hand to me.
"Pardon me for having met you so un-
ceremoniously a little while ago," he said.
"I did not know then that we were cousins.
My name is Ross Kendall."
Even those few words were full of so
much kindness, that my sense of awkward
shyness fled at once. I smiled as I gave him
my hand.
"I never heard of you before,~~ I said,
"hut since you are a Kendall, I suppose you
must be my cousin."
"I have not had much time or inclina-
tion to instruct her in family ties and con-
nections," said Uncle Kendall, grimly. "She'll
learn about them soon enough for all the
good - or harm - they can do her! You
are the best of the whole, Ross" (with a
short nod), "else it isn't likely I'd have you
here now.~~
"I have 'been away too long to know much
of the family," said Ross Kendall, gravely.
"Thank God for it, then!" said the
other, sharply. "Take my word, you'll
never have any thing better to thank Him
for !-lleryl, did you hear me tell you to
come to the fire? Sit down there!"
He pointed to the stool which .1 had va-
cated a little while before, and I obeyed the
gesture, subsiding into my familiar corner,
and looking curiously from one to the other
of the faces before me. What different faces
they were, as the firelight flickered over them,
bringing out clearly the prominent traits of
both! At this moment I seem to see the
strange, fevered eagerness that lit up the
sharpened, haggard features of the elder
man, and the grave, quiet, bronzed face of
the younger, with its keen, bright, kind, hark
eyes.
~Somehow my entrance seemed to have
created a little embarrassment. They were
both silent for sosne minutes; then Uncle
Kendall spoke again..
"I told you a little while ago, Ross," he
said, in his dry, measured way, "that I would
wait until Beryl came in before I let you know

what business I had in view when I sent for
you. I heard that you had' got back from
China".-Uncle Kendall was old -fashioned,
and he pronounced this Ohiny -" without
having bettered yourself much; and, since I
always had a liking for your father-he was
the only one of all the kin I ever could bear-I
thought I would take a look at you. You are
like him," he went on, taking a very hard
look indeed; "but I think you may do better
than he did. You've got a firmer jaw. Firm-
ness is the great thing in this world, lad.
You'll know that when you are as old as I
am."
"I know it now," said Ross Kendall, very
grimly.
the" The sooner you learn it, the better,"
other. "If you have that, you won't let a
woman make a fool of you, as your father's
wife did of him; you won't marry her for her
pretty face, as he did, without caring if her
heart is as black as Gehenna; and, above all,
you won't be wheedled into leaving your prop-
erty to her, so that she can marry again, and
despoil your own son of every penny, as yozc
have been despoiled. By G-d, boy ["-I had
never seen Uncle Kendall so excited as when
he brought his hand down on the arm of his
chair with that vehement oath -"I have
thought of your wrongs sometimes till I
would have given every dollar I am worth to
prosecute that woman, as she deserves, for
robbery and plunder; hut she is too clever to
give us a chance for that."
"Let us rather say that my father trusted
her too implicitly," said the other, coldly:
"Let it pass, sir. I think of it as little as
possible. In fact "-shrugging his' shoul-
ders-" I have not had time to think of
much besides my business during the last ter~
years."
"Have you made any money out there in
China?"
"A little," was the reserved reply.
"Enough to keep you from going back?-
for you told me a while ago you had no liking
for the place."
"So far from that, I suppose my em-
ployers will send me back next month."
"For how long?"
"Another ten years, probably."
"Humph I" said Uncle Kendall.
For a minute nothing further occurred.
The clock ticked; the fire burned obtrusive-
ly; Uncle Kendall looked at the leaping blaze;


86

MY STORY-.

and I looked at the man who had come from
China, and was thinking of going back again,
until the eyes of this wonderful traveller turned
on me, whereupon my own immediately sought
the floor. After that I contented myself with
looking at the drugget-fceling, the while, ex-
ceedingly hot and uncomfortable-until the
voice which I knew so well, and (Ood forgive
me I) disliked so intensely, spoke again, very
slowly:
"I'm an old man, Rosa, as you see, and
I'm not a strong man, as the doctor tells me
every time I meet him; so, of late, I've been
thinking who's to have this old place after
rm dead. It ought to go to some one of the
name; but I don't know one that isn't a mer-
cenary, unprincipled scoundrel-unless it be
yourself. Root and branch, they have been
the pest of my life for years, until I have
sworn that I will leave Kendall and every
dollar I own to the county sooner than to
any of 'em. You are the only one that has
never tried to make any thing out of me, lad,
and I have thought more than once of leaving
it all to you; but, then, you were in China,
and I couldn't tell what you might have grown
into. Now that I've seen you, however, I am
willing enough to make you my heir-only
there's one obstacle in the way."
"What obstacle?" asked Ross. lIe spoke
quietly, but I, who was looking at him, saw a
sudden flush come to his cheek, and a sudden
light to his eye. It was evident that the pros-
pect of liberty and fortune was very pleasant
to a man expecting to go back to China for
another ten years. "What obstacle?" he re-
peated, after a minute.
"That girl I" answered Uncle Kendall,
pointing his bony finger straight at me.
To say that the girl in question was as-
tonished st this unexpected reply, would be
to say very little indeed. I was so much con-
founded that I could not speak-I could only
gaze, as if transfixed, atthe finger, and won-
der what Uncle Kendall possibly meant by
such an assertion.
"She expects to be my heiress," pursued
that amiable old person, after a minute, in a
tone of great disgust.
"I don't expect it I" I cried, indignantly
finding voice at this. "I never thought of
being your heiress, Uncle Kendall I- I don't
see why you should say I did. I-I mean to
be a governess, and take care of myself. 1
told Aunt Kendall so yesterday."

"Indeed!" said he, sardonically. "And
may I ask what you mean to teach?"
The blood rushed into my cheeks like a
flame, and to this day I remember the keen
throb of humiliation which made me hang
my head like a hidden child. I had never
been sent to school, but had grown into a tall
girl of seventeen, with only such little smat-.
tering of reading, writing, and arithmetic, as
Aunt Kendall could give. Under the circum-
stances, the governess idea was certainly suf-
ficiently absurd; but, then, why need Uncle
Kendall have taunted me with my ignorance in
such a tone, and in the presence of a stranger?
It was the voice of the latter which broke
the silence-quiet, but with a kindness in it
which I understood instinctively to be meant
for me.
"Beryl is the daughter of your niece, is
she not?" he asked, addressing Uncle Ken-
dall. "Certainly, in that case, she has a bet-.
ter right to your fortune than L"
"She has no right at all," retorted Uncle
KendalL "She is a fool if she thinks so! I
have always meitnt to leave the manor to a
Kendall; and I should like the fortune I have
spent my life in making to go along with it.
But ake has to be provided for, I suppose"
the scornful finger was levelled at me again-
"and so I have been thinking-she is pretty
enough, as women go-that you might not
have any objection to marrying her, Ross. It
would settle all trouble. I hope you have not
been silly enough to burden yourself with a
wife-eh?"
"I have been too poor a man to afford
such a luxury," answered the other. He tried
to speak gravely, but my sharpened ears could
detect an irresistible inclination to laugh in
his voice. That tone proved a drop too much
in the already brimming cup of my shame and
confusion. Child though I was, I could still
appreciate the indignity and contempt with
which I had been treated, and burning tears
of rage were in my eyes as I rose suddenly to
my feet.
"I am going, Uncle Kendall U' I said, in
a voice which trembled from the same cause.
"I-I cannot stay any longer. It is true you
have fed and clothed me," I cried, passionate-
ly; "but you have not bou,!lkt me, and you
have no right to offer me along with your for'
tune! I don't want any of it-I would not
have any of it; but I-I think you might
have spared me such an insult as this!"

T

MY STORY.

8~t

"Is the young fool mad?" demanded Un-
cle Kendall, too much surprised to be angry.
"What the devil does she mean ?-Take your
seat again this minute, JIeryl 1"
But for once I was deaf to the voice of
command. I rushed to the door, and it was
while I was fumbling blindly for the latch
that I found Ross Kendall at my side.
"Come back, Beryl," he said, as he might
have spoken to a child. "Your uncle did not
mean to offend you. He is plain-spoken, like
all old people, but he meant no harm. Of
course, his idea was absurd; but why not
laugh at it instead of taking it like this? I
have a better one to propose, instead," he
added, laughing himself. "Won't you come
back and listen to it? By Jove, if you
don't "-as I still retained inflexible hold of
the door-" I shall order my horse at once;
for your claim to Kendall is certainly better
than mine!"
"I have no claim!" said I. But curiosity,
operating with the last threat, brought me
back. Then, having placed me in a chair,
Ross addressed himself to my uncle.
"I have ten days to spare, sir," he said,
"and since your letter was very kind, I came
down, meaning to spend them at the manor.
Now, I propose that, instead of talking any
further about estates and heirships, we de-
vote these ten days to learning something
about each other. You cannot possibly tell
how much or how little you may like me or
trust me on closer acquaintance, while, as for
this young lady"-he turned and looked at
me with a smile in his kind, dark eyes-"I
trust that she may at least learn to tolerate
inc as a cousin. All question of any thing
else we will waive at once. It is enough to
say that no consideration could tempt me to
offer myself to a woman I did not love hon-
estly and for herself!"
"The more fool you l" commented Uncle
Kendall, in his usual candid fashion. "There
is some sense in what you say about deferring
the discussion of business till we know each
other a little better," he added, after a pause;
"only I am opposed to delays. We never
know what may happen; and I had a fancy
to draw up my will to-morrow, before I go-
as I am obliged hr do-on a journey of five
or six days. However, since you have a no-
tion for waiting, let it be so! I only hope
that when I come back you and Beryl will
have made up your minds to take each other

for life. It is all nonsense, this thing of men
and women talking of choosing each other
for love. The only sensible thing to do is to
choose the person who can make you most
comfortable. If you both agree to what I
propose, I'll see you safely married, and then
i'll draw up a will leaving every thing I am
worth to you, Ross. I don't believe in wom-
en's ever owning independent property. Mar-
ried or unmarried, there's not one ef 'em fit
to be trusted with it!"
"-
Our autocrat was as good as his word,
with regard to taking his departure the next
morning. He announced at the breakfast-
table that he had business which would de-
tain him from home several days, and thus,
to our dismay, Aunt Kendall and myself found
ourselves burdened with the entertainment of
our new-found kinsman. We looked at each
other a little blankly; but there was nothing
to be said, and, after breakfast, I confess that
I watched, for the first time, with sensations
of keen regret, the diminishing form of the
tall old vehicle and raw-boned horse which
conveyed Uncle Kendall to the railway town
of Exford.
"Are you always so sorry when your un-
cle leaves home?" asked Ross Kendall, ma-
liciously. He was standing by me on the
steps, but I had not fancied that he was watch-
ing me until the tone of this question informed
me of the fact. Then I started, and, feeling
that I blushed, I felt also a strong inclination
to be malicious in return.
"I am not usually sorry at all," I an-
swered, quietly. "In fact, I don't think that
I ever was sorry before."
"And may I ask the cause of your un-
usual regret on the present occasion, then?"
"Since you have asked, you have no right
to be offended if I say that it is because you
have remained behind!"
"I am not offended at all," he said, laugh.
ing, yet flushing a little. "But are you al-
ways so candid?"
"How could I live with Uncle Kendall and
be otherwise?"
"Candidly tell me, then, why you object
to my remaining? I am a most inoffensive
fellow, and would not harm you for the world."
"Why should you wish to stay~?" asked
I, impatiently. "It cannot possibly interest
you to be shut up, in a lonely country-house


88

MY STORY.

like this, with a tiresome old woman like Aunt
Kendall, and a silly young woman like me.
There are no horses, no dogs, no guns, no
books, no any thing to amuse you I"
"Suppose I would rather not be amused?"
said he, smiling. "Suppose I would even
rather be bored? I have not had time to be
bored in a long while; and it is a luxury to a
man fresh from China. So is a glorious In-
dian-summer day like this," he added, chang-
ing his tone, "a luxury worth coming back
to enjoy! How it makes me feel like a boy
again! ~ wonder if I might venture to ask
the silly young woman to take a walk with
me?"
His gay frankness would have put even a
shyer person at ease. Having no excuse
ready, and being, moreover, mightily tempted
by the golden day, and the soft, dreamy air
(not to speak of the dark eyes and the ex-
traordinary but exhilarating consciousness
of having a man for a companion), the silly
young woman in question readily agreed to
go. We set forth, therefore,-and if it mat-
tered-which it does not-I could recall every
word, and tone, and glance, which passed be-
tween us on that bright autumn morning-
that morning long past now, which I spent
like a very child in showing all my chiefest
and sweetest woodland haunts, and which
was crowned by th6 wholesale rifling of a
chestnut-tree upon which we chanced on our
homeward route. As we walked, we talked
not a little, and, by a few questions, Ross
drew from me all about my own history-of
which there was very little to tell-and I
think it was his sincere pity for my lonely,
joyless youth, which first opened my heart
to him. Does anybody wonder that I did not
resent this feeling, as I am told people mostly
do? I can only say in reply that it should
be remembered that nobody had ever before
taken the trouble even to pity me. Besides
which, when Ross said, " Poor child!" there
was much of tenderness as well as pity in his
voice; and, child or woman, she would have
been made of strange material indeed, who
resented any word of tenderness from Ross
Xendall's lips.
Well, it was a pleasant day. It is a pleas-
ant day to look back upon even now, for it
was only the beginning of others more pleas-
ant still. It is fortunate, perhaps, that I
cannot linger over the details of a story
which just here would seem, no doubt, com-

monpiace enough. Once in our lives, para-
dise opens for all of us out of the dull earth;
and days, golden with the light of tender ro-
mance, shine upon us with a radiance like
unto no other radiance of time. Does it boot
to count the cost of the bitter desolation
which often follows? We can scarcely think
that Eve would have surrendered one memory
of Eden for all the joys of earth. Yet she
must have dreamed many times of the deep.
green bowers, the shining waters, the mar-
vellous glistening fruits of that fair domain,
and waked to weep such tears of unavailing
regret as have watered this sad planet of ours
most plenteously ever since.
It was in the midst of my colorless life,
in the season of earth's most touching sad-
ness, that some days like those of which I
have spoken came to me. Surrounded now
by sorrow and desolation-full of pain and
weariness-I can thank God for them yet.
Opening a drawer in the desk at which I am
writing, some relics of them lie before me-
changed, as the years which have passed since
then have no doubt changed me, too. Brown
leaves, once golden and scarlet with the burn-
ing touch of autumn-v-leaves gathered out on
the hill-side with Ross-a sketch~of me which
he made one day on the blank leaf of a book,
with "Little Red Riding - hood" scrawled
lazily underneath; a few other trifles equally
insignificant, and one short curl of crisp, dark
hair. Few as they arc-these tokens of the
past-they open the whole treasure-house of
memory to me. They bring back vividly
those lovely days with their wealth of unfor-
gotten words and tones, their soft breezes
and faint woodland fragrances. I seem to
meet the dark eyes, to hear the frank, kind
voice, and, if I lift my eyes to a present and
a future which are alike desolate, I can still
thank God that love-even our poor human
love-stands forever chief among the Immor-
tals.
Uncle Kendall was gone nearly a fort-
night. To say that I lived an enchanted life
during this time, would be to say very little
indeed. For let it be remembered-ia justi-
fication, perhaps, of my folly-that I had
never before had even so much as a kitten to
love. In my case there was no dividing and
subdividing of affection into different rills-
no father, mother, sisters, brothers, friends,
to claim a share of my heart. AU the love
which was mine to give, swept into one great

I

MY STORY-.

channel, and poured itself-for good or ill-
at one man's feet. Looking back now, I can-
not regret it. It was something-nay, I am
still mad enough to think it was every thing
-to have lived in the light of his smile for
ten long, golden days, and heard him say a
thousand times in accent before he ever said
in words, that he loved me.
When at last he did speak, it seemed like
something which had been long acknowledged
and believed. We were sitting on a sunny
hill-side-how well I remember the golden,
dreamy beauty of that Indian-summer after-
noon !-with a glorious sweep of country at
our feet, clad in the gorgeous robes, and
draped with the lovely haze of autumn. I
had gathered from the ground two or three
brilliant leaves-the same which lie before
me now so brown and crisp-and, with the
coquetry inborn in woman, laid them against
therich masses of my hair.
"Are they pretty?" I asked, looking up
at Ross with the eyes which I knew full well
were like the summer sky at noonday.
lie smiled a little.
"Why do you ask 2" he said. "You
know they are pretty-almost as pretty as
you are!"
"Am I pretty?" asked I, quickly. "Do
you really think so? I-I should like tobe."
"Why should you like it?" he asked, in
turn, looking at me with a strange intentness
in his dark eyes.
"Because I am sure it must be the great-
est gift a woman can possess," I answered,
readily. "It must be pleasant, I think, to
know that one has the power to win love any.
where and under any circumstances."
"Then you are like all other women," he
said, a little bitterly. "You long not for one
slave but for a thousand; you want beauty,
not to gladden one man's eyes, bat to give
power over many. Well "-he drew in his
breath a little quickly-" be satisfied, You
have it! It is yours in greater degree than I
have ever before known it bestowed on any
one woman. If you go into the world-or,
perhaps I should say wken you go into the
world-you will find men enough to tell you
this better than I can."
His tone-which was almost harsh-took
me so much by surprise, that for a moment I
could say nothing. Then I felt hot tears rise
into my eyes.
"That was not what I meant," I said,

89

hastily. "I was not thinking of-of other
men. What do I care for them? I was only
thinking that, if I were pretty, you would like
me better."
"God forbid that I should ever like you
better!" he said, quickly, "for I fear-O
fleryl, I fear-that I like you too much al-
ready. Child, don't look at me in that star-
tled fashion. I mean every word I say. I
love you, God knows, better than I ever
thought to love any thing on earth again;
but, if you came to my heart this minute, I
should be miserable through fear of losing
you. I loved another woman once, who was not
half so beautiful as you are, and she deceived
and forsook me. Why should not you do the
same?"
His voice, his words, seemed to cut like a
knife to my heart. I have already said that
I was little more than an ignorant child; for-
give me, then, if I sinned grievously against
all precedents of courtship. Don't be hope-
lessly shocked that I extended my hands to
him, backed by a pair of wistful, tearful eyes.
"Ross," I said, simply, "I would never
deceive or forsake you."
His only answer was to take me into his
arms. I think for a moment he could scarce-
ly speak-so deeply had those simple words
touched him. Then-but my story has noth-
ing to do with the words of fond folly and
tender sweetness which were uttered out on
the hill-side that day. They are buried long
since-buried by the rains, and leaves, and
sobbing winds of many succeeding autumns-
for the seasons which come and go in their
appointed course have never brought such an
hour again to all my dreary life.
The sun was setting when we took our
way homeward. Oh, in what bright and
Lender colors does memory still paint that
last happy evening! I seem to see yet the
glow of sunset clouds brightening the whole
landscape and reflected in the streams that
took their way through purple ravines and
smiling valleys. Even the windows of the
old manor were all on fire, as if with a brill-
iant illumination, when we came in sight of
them. "It is in our honor!" Ross said, with
a smile.
When he said this, we were standing on a
hill overlooking the manor from the rear. At
our feet lay the old house, with the lazy blue
smoke ascending from its chimneys, and its
panes of old-fashioned glass blinking redly in


90                               MY STORY.
the sunset glow; also in full view were the
out-houses, kitchens, and stables, while far-
thor baek-.-out of sight from the manor, but
clearly visible to us-was a small cabin, with
an enclosed piece of ground attached, and a
rough piazza in front-one of those establish-
nients which used to be so common on every
Southern plantation, where some old servant
had been "turned out ~to grass" after long
and faithfulservice.
"That is where old Sylvy lives," said I to
Ross. "Did you ever see old Sylvy? No?
Well, then, you ought to see her, for I really
believe she is the only person in the world
who is not afraid of Uncle Kendall. I some-
times think, on the contrary, that its is afraid
of her - he certainly treats her with more
consideration than he treats anybody else,
and, whenever he is sick, he sends for her to
nurse him. They say that she used to be his
wife's favorite maid. Fancy Uncle Kendall
ever having had a wife 1"
"And, pray, why not?" askcd Ross, smil-
ing. "Uncle Kendall was not always an ogre.
No doubt he was as good-looking as-as I
am, for example, when he was young. He
teas married, I know; but he quarrelled with
his wife, and, since her fortune was settled
on herself, and her temper was as high as
his own, she refused' to live with him. They
separated, therefore, but the law gave him the
control of their only child, whom he accord-
ingly kept until she grew into a girl, when
she ran away and joined her mother. After
that, he never saw either of them again."
"Aunt Kendall has told me all about it,"
said I," and I think she was quits right. If
I had only had anybody to run to, Ishould
have run away long ago. Tell me what be.
came of her, Ross. Do you know?"
"Dead long ago, I suppose," answered
Ross, carelessly. "I never made any particu-
lar inquiries, but I know that, as long as I can
reme~nber, Uncle Kendall's wealth~has been a
source of speculation in the family. 'Whom
will he leave it to?' I have heard Kendall
after Kendall anxiously ask - which they
would not have done, you know, if his daugh
ter had been alive."
"I suppose not," said I. "It would be
terrible if she was alive, though, would it
not?" I added, with startling abruptness.
"You would have to go back to China, after
all, then, wouldn't you, Ross?"
"That would depend upon circumstances,"

answered he, jestingly. "If the will was made,
Kendall would be mine, let who would ap.
pear."
"What a different Kendall we will make
of it, will we not?" cried I, gayly. "Oh,
Ross,,it shall bloom like a garden, shall it
not? Are you not happy? Do you not feel
as light as the air? See if you can reach the
bottom of the hill as soon as I can."
In the overflowing lightness of my heart I
started-I was as fleet as a deer in those days
-and ran down the sloping hill-side, carpeted
with smooth pine-straw. Of course, I reached
the bottom long before Ross; and, as I paused
for breath, a small black figure darted at me
from some unsuspected quarter.
"Miss Beryl, granny say, will you please,
ma'am, come there?"
"What does your granny want?" asked
I, impatiently. I knew very well that the
" granny" in question was old Sylvy, whose
cabin stood near by, and I felt little inclined
for an hour's gossip over her rheumatism and
asthma.
"I dunno, ma'arn," said the boy-Sylvy's
grandchild and factotum-" but she sent me
to do big house fur you, and when she heard
you was out in de woods, she tole me to keep
watch till you come, and tell you she wanted
pa'tic'lar to see you."
"Psljaw 1" said I, pettishly. "Well, tell
her I will be there in a minute."
As the boy ran off, I stopped to explain to
Ross why I could not accompany him to the
house. "Old Sylvy wants to tell me about
the dreadful 'misery' in her back, and how
she can't sleep of nights, but has to sit up by
the fire and smoke," I said, with a grimace.
"I'll come as soon as I can; good.by."
"Suppose I go in and offer her a cigar to
let you off duty?" said he, laughing.
But I declined this offer, and so we parted,
he going on to the house with his easy, swing-
~ng tread, whistling as he went; while I ran
up the step of old Sylvy's piazza, and tried to
open her door. To my surprise, it was fast-
ened.
"Sylvyl Sylvy!" said I, rattling it impa.
tiently. "Let me in-it is I!,'
After a minute, I heard a fumbling at the
latch, then the door opened slowly, and Syl.
vy's face-nothing more-appeared.
"Is that you, Miss Beryl?" she asked,
peering cautiously out.
"Of course it's me1. "answered I, too im~

F:

MY STORY.

90

'~ ~


I

MY STORY.

0
0
a
0

91

patient to consider grammar. "Who els(
should it be?"
"I ax your pardon for kcepin' you waiting'
ma'am," she said, opening the door with her
usual courtesy-for Sylvy was a negro of the
pld school, and often boasted that she had
been "taught manners by her ole mistis "-
"but a' body can't be too pa'tic'lar when
they've got reason for wantliL' no tattlers
about. Walk in, ma'am. I hope your health's
pretty well this evening?"
"Oh, I am always well," said I, with the
boastful superiority of youth. "How is your
rheumatism?"
"About as usual, thank you, ma'am," she
answered, in the tone which shows that an
answer is absently given.
This in itself surprised me, for Sylvy was
always only too ready to talk of her ailments;
but when I saw her carefully bolt the door
again, I at once inquired what was the matter.
"Why do you shut up your house so closely
thi~bcautiful evening?" 1 asked. "it is hor-
ribly warm 1" Which was not surprising,
since a large fire was burning in the capacious
chimney.
"There's somc isn't warm, if it is a beau.
tiful evening, Miss Beryl!" said she, solemn-
ly and mysteriously. Then she pointed to
the corner where her bed stood, generally
covered with a quilt of bright and wonder-
ful device, but now occupied, as a glance
showed me, by a motionless and recumbent
figure. "There's one as will never be warm
agin in this world," said she, tremblingly.
"You can go and look at her, Miss Beryl.
How she ever got here, and she so fur gone,
the Lord only knows 1"
"What are you talking about?" asked I.
"Who is it? Why didn't you send for Aunt
Kendall if anybody is sick?"
"Send fur Miss Kendall!" repeated Sylvy,
contemptuously. "What I gwine send fur
her fur? She's so afraid of ole master, she
dasen't say her soul's her own. If ke'd a bin
at home, I'd a sent for nobody!" pursued
she, defiantly. ~' I'd a gone as straigl4 to
him as my old feet could carry me. But
he ain't, here, a~id I'm only an ole nigger, so
I thought maybe you'd knew best, Miss
Beryl, what's to be done."
"I have not an idea what you are talking
about!" cried I, bewildered. "What is the
matter? Of course, if anybody is very ill,
you ought to send for the actorr"

"It's too late for doctors to do any good
to ker," said she, shaking her head. "Come
and look at her yourself, Miss Beryl! You
ain't much of a one to judge, but you can tell
death when you see it, I reckon."
I had not time to resent the slight thus
cast upon my powers of judgment, for she
drew me toward the bed, and, hi the red
light of the fire, I saw a sight which shocked
and thrilled me. A woman, with a 'face of
ghastly whiteness, lay under a heavy mass of
quilts and shawls, breathing so faintly that it
was difficult to tell at first whether or not she
breathed at all, and with every line of her
sunken face proclaiming, even to my inex-
perienced eyes, that Death was indeed laying
his icy finger on the feeble pulses, and saying
to the heart, with that power which no mor-
tal skill can gainsay, "Be still I"
"Who is she?" said I, turning to Sylvy,
who stood by wiping her eyes. "Good Heav-
ens, the woman is dying I Who is she?"
"She's Mass Kendall's own daughter, Miss
Beryl," answered the old woman, solemnly.
"She's your own flesh and blood, ma'am, an'
she hasn't any better place to lay her head
than the cabin of an ole nigger like me!"
"Mass Kendall's own dau~,~hter I" That
was all I heard. The rest of the speech-full
of sorrowful indignation though it was-passed
like the sounds in a dream.
"Why, it was not an hour ago we sp6ke
of her!" I cried out, stunned by the coinci-
dence as such coincidences do stun; "and
Ross said that she was dead 1"
"I knowed she wasn't dead," said Sylvy,
grimly, "an' ole master knowed it, too.
Many's the letter he's had from herr but he
never tole nobody about 'em but me. 'I've
had another letter from yout chile,' he'd say
to me, sneeria'-like. 'She's anxious to be
took back, Dow that she's run through all het~
mother's fortune; but I swore, when she lef',
she should never have a dollar ~of mine-an'
she never shalL' He's a hard one, is ole mas-
ter; but I've up an' tole him 'fore to-day what
I think of him. He druv' my poor mistis'
into leaving' him, an' then he might 'a' knowed
that the chile was gem' to follow her mother.
I tried to keep her from it, poor lamb I but
she would go, an' ole Sylvy ain't the one to
blame her. I nussed her in these arms!',
said the faithful creature, sitting down and
sobbing in her apron. "I was the fast one
that took her after she come into this world


I

MY STORY.

92

of trouble, an' now-O Lord, Lord! to think
that she's come back to ole Sylvy to die!"
I said nothing. What could I say? A
great horror seemed to come over and be.
numb me. I sat down on a chest near by,
and stared; first at the dying woman, and then
at her sobbing nurse.
"When did she come?" I asked present-
ly, in an awe-stricken whisper.
"Not more'n three hours ago," Sylvy an-
swered. "I was 5-sittin' in my door, knitting ,
an' thinking' no more of seem' keg' than of
seem' the dead, when she come a-toilin' up
the hill, an' stood afore me like a ghost.
'Mammy,' she says, 'don't you know me?
I'm your chile.' Then, when I fetched her in
an' made her lie down-fur she was white as
a sheet-she tole me how she was a widow,
an' how she had bin so sick abe was afraid
she would die an' leave her chile with nobody
to protect him-you see, he's her youngest,
an' all she's got lef'-so she thought she'd
come to her father an' see if he wouldn't
promise to befriend the boy after she was
gone. But, though she come, she was afraid
to go up to the house, for fear he'd shut the
door in her face, as he said he would; so she
come to ask me what she better do, an',
while she was a-talkin', she begun to spit
blood, an' it went on wuss an' wuss, till it
lef' her right where you see her now."
"And what are you going to do?" asked
I, after another pause, and in another awe-
stricken whisper.
" That's what I don't know ,7~ she an.
swerved, shaking her head. "If master was
here, I'd go straight to him; but he ain't,
you know, an' it's no worth while to go to
ole Mis' Kendall. But I thought as how you
-who's gem' to have every thing, 1~hey say-
might take it upon yourself to have your own
cousin carried to die in the house where she
was born."
"But I am. not going to have every
thing!" I said, indignantly; "and I have
no more right to give an order at Kendall
than you have. In fact, Uncle Kendall would
let you do it, before he would let me!"
"An' is everybody to say that my mistis's
chile died in a nigger's cabin?" demanded
she, vehemently.
Now, it must be premised that, under or-
dinary circumstances, Sylvy would as soon
have thought of calling herself a cannibal as
a "nigger;" but at present she had thrust

herself so entirely aside-her whole thoughts
were so full of the wrongs of her dying
"child "-that she did not hesitate to use
even this opprobrious term to express her
sense of these wrongs more strongly.
"I-I don't know," said I. "It is ter-
rible-but what can I do!' If there was only
somebody to take the responsibility-" Then
I stopped, and gave a little cry. "There is
Ross!" I said. "I might ask him. He
would know what to do, and he would not be
afraid of Uncle Kendall either. Why did I
not think of that before? I will go for
Ross!"
I rose impulsively and started toward the
door, but, as I reached it, a low cry from
Sylvy made me stop short. She had risen,
and bent over the bed.
"0 Miss Beryl," she cried, with a wail,
"it's too late-too late! My chile is dead!"
III.
Wuau I left Sylvy's cabin, the lovely
dusk which reigned over the earth when I
entered had given place to absolute night,
brightened only by that tender, fairy- like
lustre which we call starlight. The air came,
with a cool freshness impossible to describe,
to my fevered cheeks, though magically soft
for the season, as I walked slowly along the
path-every foot of which I knew-that led
to a stile in the rear of the manor-kitchen.
It was not strange that, as I walked, I felt
stunned and bewildered. The startling scene
through which I had so lately passed had
come upon me with the force of such absolute
surprise that it might have crippled, for a
time, the activity of even a stronger brain
than mine. The pale, set face of the dead
woman-the face which I had bent over, and
which I shuddered to remember that I had
even touched-seemed to go with me as I hur-
ried down the sloping path. I could not ban-
ish it, nor the flushed face of a sleeping child
with a corn-colored mop of ?urls, at whom
Sylvy had pointed sorrowfully, saying, "It's
for him she come."
For him! That Kendall might be given to
him, and Ross sent back to China! That was
the thought that came to me like a flash-the
first, instinctive comment of my jealous heart.
It had been my thought, indeed-though only
vaguely grasped-when I first heard who the
dying woman was. Does any one think this
strange? If so, let me say, once for all, that,

MY' STORY.

though I do not intend (God forbid that
should intend!) to extenuate any of th~
thoughts and acts which it is part of m:
story to record, yet it is impossible for bin
to judge dispassionately of this story, wh(
does n~t remember that a young savage of th
South Sea would have had a decided advan
tage over me at that time in point of moral,
social, religious, or any other kind of train.
ing, and that I had grown up in such uttet
isolation franz even the faintest affection that
there was scant cause for wonder in the fact
that I was ready to defend, at all costs and
all hazards, the interests of the sole creature
I had ever found to love.
For it had come to that. As I walked
down the hill-side path, I was conscious of a
wild, fierce desire to keep these intruders at
hay, and to defend Ross against them-Ross,
whom they had come to rob and to send back
to China! I paused at the stile when Ireached
It, and, leaning my arms on the top, with a
soft, soughing music in she pines behind, the
cheerful lights of the manor-windows in front,
and the great, starry sky overhead, pondered
the problem-what could I do? Naturally
enough, no answer came. Instead, even I
had sense enough to see that I could do noth-
ing. There was Sylvy, there was the dead
mother, and there was the living child; while
Uncle Kendall, who had already exceeded the
time appointed for his absence, might reach
home at any hour. In the face of these over-
whelming odds, what hope was there that I
-the most insignificant of creatures-could
find any means to outwit them all, and secure
to Ross his rights-I seriously considered
them his rights -which were so gravely
threatened? What difference did it make
to me that the woman and the child in ques-
tion were Uncle Kendall's direct descendants,
while Ross was only a distant kinsman? I
thought only of him. I fear that I should
have thought only of him if the whole Deca-
logue had been arrayed on the other side.
It was while I still stood under the starlit
sky, and still thought of many a wild, im-
practicable scheme-loath to enter the house,
because I had promised Sylvy to bring Ross
to her-that I was startled by the ring of a
familiar tread advancing quickly toward the
stile. Ross was comifig for me! My heart
gave a great leap-partly from the joy which
his coming always brought, but partly also
from relief; for I had been nervously dreading

93

I his arrival all the while I was in Sylvy's cabin.
a That I had no high. sentiments of honor my-
~ self; I think my story amply proves; but still
I could understand Ross and I felt instinctive-
ly that all the chivalry of his nature would
rise up for that pale, dea~l mother and her
helpless child, if he saw them. Therefore, my
first thought was one of relief that he had not
seen them.
"Ross!" said I, putting out my hand and
touching him, with a soft laugh, when he came
to the stile.
lie had not seen me, and be gave a great
start.
"Beryl!" he said. "Is it possible this
is yee? I was just coming after you. What
are you doing here all by yourself; and what
has kept you so long?"
"I stopped here as I came back from
Sylvy's cabin," I answered, wondering a little
if my voice did not betray what I had seen in
Sylvy's cabin. "It is so beautiful I was in
no hurry to go in. Did you ever see a love-
lier night, Ross? Look at that splendid
planet! Is it Jupiter, do you think? And
there are the Pointers and the Milky-Way,
and-"
"Yes," said Ross, interrupting my vague
astronomical knowledge. "But I have come
for you in haste, Beryl. Your uncle is very
ill, and wishes to see you." -
"Uncle Kendall!" I exclaimed. It was
a good thing we were in the dark, and that
he could not see my start, nor the pallor
which overspread my face. "I-this is very
strange. When did he come, Ross?"
"He was in the house when I reached it
two hours ago," Ross answered. "They told
me he had arrived about an hour before that.
He sat down in the sitting-room alone~ and
when I came in I found him fallen over with
a stroke of paralysis."
"0 Ross!"
"I applied some remedies myself; and!
sent post-haste for a doctor, who came much
sooner than I expected. He is better now--
that is, he can speak a little, and he asked at
once for his lawyer and you."
"Will he die, Ross?" I asked, in a whis--
per.
"So the doctor thinks," Ross answered,.
gravely.
After that I said nothing more. I let him.
help me over the stile, an&amp;walked by him in~
utter silence toward the house. Since that


94

MY.STORY'.

night I have never trod that path; but I re-
member every turn of it better than I re-
member the scenes of yesterday-I remem-
ber every thing connected with that night, the
stars which were brightly glowing overhead,
the soft sighing of the distant pines,' the crisp
rustling of the dead leaves under our feet, the
dark outlines of the house cutting against
the steel-blue sky, the lights gleaming in the
windows, even the very spot where Ross put
out his hand and drew mine into his arm.
"Why are you so silent, Beryl?" he
asked. "Did I shock you with my news?
And you are trembling all over, poor little
one? Is it with cold?"
With eold! .Ah, if ha could have known
.-rf he could have seen-why I was trem-
bling in every limb like an aspen. Robbery!
It was not robbery to hold my tongue, to say
nothing, to let the old man die in ignorance;
and yet-I clung to him, quivering all over.
"No-i am not cold," I said. "It is be-
cause I am nervous that I cannot keep still.
O Ross, do you-do you know what Uncle
Kendall wants with me?"
"Can you not guess, Beryl ?" Ross asked,
gravely yet tenderly.
After that nothing more was said. We
entered the manor in the rear, and passed to
the sitting-room, where the lawyer, the doc-
tor, and an old gentleman, a Mr. Collins, were
comfortably smoking over the fire, and talk-
ing the current news of the day. They rose
at my entrance, and, when Ross asked if there
had been any change in the sick man, the
doctor answered that there was very little as
yet, but the sooner the business on his mind
was transacted, the better. Then Ross led
me straight into his chamber.
It is not likely that I shall ever forget the
scene upon which I entered. Indeed, it has
been one of the nightmares of mylife. For
years I dreaded to sleep lest I should dream
of. it, lest I should see again-as I so often
did-the twisted, helpless figure, the awful,
distorted face which met my gaze when I
crossed the threshold of that room. My
nerves were already unstrung, and I shrank
back piteously, covering my eyes with my
hands-hut Ross led me on. "My poor dar-
ling, you must come 1" he said, in a whis-
per.
,~And so I reached the bedside-~-so I stood
shuddering an~d gazing into the harsh old face
transformed so hideously. The mouth was

wrenched into a ghastly and horrible grin-.
even the eyes filled me with terror when they
looked at me. I dared not scream, yet I
could scarcely restrain the inclination to do
so when Ross left me a moment and went to
the head of the bed-bent over the lips striv-
ing desperately to speak, and uttering only
inarticulate sounds terrible to hear.
"Beryl is here, sir," he said. "Will you
speak to her? or shall I?"
After an effort, there came an answer
which seemed to mean "You."
Then Ross held out his hand to mc, and I
came tremblingly nearer, and placed my own
in it.
"Your uncle wishes to ask you, Ileryl,"
he said, "whether you are willing to marry
me, and to trust your interests hereafter in
my hands?"
"Yes, uncle," I answered, addressing the
eyes which were fastened on me, and from
which I could not remove my own, "1 am
willing to marry Ross. I-I have promised
to do so."
Then the distorted lips, the paralyzed
tongue made another effort, and, after a min-
ute, wrenched out in broken, guttural sounds,
the word "Now?"
I did not understand, and looked at Ross.
He seemed a little puzzled himself.
"Now?" he repeated. Then-as he seemed
to catch the drift of some inarticulate sounds
the helpless man was making -he added,
quickly: "Do you mean to ask Beryl if she
is willing to he married now?"'
The eyes brightened and the head nodded.
Evidently this was what he did mean.
"That is for Beryl to answer," snid Ross,
turning to me with a sudden flush on his
cheeks, and a sudden light in his dark eyes.
"I am ready, sir. If Beryl says yes-"
But I seemed to choke. I tore my hand
suddenly from him, nud turned away-I say
yes! How could 1, oh, how could I? It was
not the shyness of a timid maiden which made
me shrink from those tender, passionate eyes,
that: close~eIasping, eager hand. God knows
I might have been fourscore for all I thought
of maiden shyness then.' It was a sudden, hor-
rible sense of the deceit that enveloped me-
it was the memory of the dead woman and
the sleeping child in Sylvy's cabin! I was
willing to do any thing that the princely for.
tune, which that poor wreck on the bed had
scraped and toiled and denied himself even

I

MY STORY-

95

the luxuries of lifh to amass, might come
Ross-willing even to hold my tongue ni
let the sinful soul pass away without one o
portunity to say, "Lord1 forgive me as I ha~
forgiven! "-but all suddenly I felt that n
soul was stained by this silence, and that n
hand was not worthy to touch the one whic
Ross held out to me.
I turned away, and, walking blindly acro~
the room, dropped down upon a window-sea
Thither, in a minute, Ross followed me.
"Beryl," he said, in a tone in which pai
and surprise seemed struggling together
"what is the matter? Are you angry wit
me? I know it is hard for you to come s
suddenly and so irrevocably to one whom yoi
know so little-and I should not have dare~
to ask it. But he is dying-the old mai
yonder-and you remember he said, on tha
first evening, that he wished to see us mar
ned before he made his will."
At these words, 1 raised my face. It cam
to me like a flash, that every thing hinged or
the marriage. Until that took place, the wit
would not be signed which would make Rosr
master of Kendall. I looked up with startled
eyes into the face looking down upon me.
"Don't you think Uncle Kendall would
defer the marriage, Ross?" I asked. "Don't
you think he might sign the will without-
without that?"
"lie might," said Ross, "though I should
not like to ask it of bim-.-but I am not think-
ing of the will. I am thinking of you, Beryl.
Why do you hesitate? -why will you not
trust me? Is it because you have not learned
to love me yet? Is it because you were mis-
taken - out there on the hill this after.
noon?"
"Mistaken!" Ah, if he could have read
my heart! "0 Ross, Ross," I cried, "I love
you better than anybody in the world! I
have never loved anybody but you in my
whole life. I would die for you, if I could;
but I-oh, I cannot marry you!"
"Do you mean never, Beryl?" asked he,
growing pale.
"No-oh, ne," answered I, with feverish
eagerness. "I mean I cannot do it now-to-
night."
"Why not, if you love me as you
do?"                             sayyou
"Because-oh, because I am not worthy
of you, Ross."
"Not worthy!" He smiled as he .took

6

to my hands. "My pretty, foolish darling, is
~d that all?"
p-     All! If he could have known what that
re "all" comprised! 1 looked at him, andwon-
~y dered he did not see it in my face-surely not
~y the face of a girl shrinking only because she
Ii loved
"You said this afternoon that some one-
;s some other woman - deceived you once," I
t. said, nervously. "1-0 Ross, I may be doing
the same, for all you know."
a "You! "he repeated, incredulously. "You
; -with that child-face, those angel-eyes? if
b you swore it, Beryl, I should not believe it."
o     "Not you, then; but - but some one
a else."
I "My darling, this is nonsense!" he said,
1 gravely. "You are tormenting yourself about
some childish fancy or scruple-but there is
- not time for such things now, Beryl. Death
will not wait for your decision. It is ad.
dancing yonder very fast. You must decide
quickly what you will do."
I ' "Ross," said I, eagerly, "if he died with-
out signing any will, to whom would the prop-
I ertygo?"
"To the heir - at - law," Ross answered,
* "that would be yourself. Why do you ask?"
he went on quickly. "Do you think that I
am urging you to marry me on account of the
will? If you can do me such injustice as
that, Beryl-"
But I interrupted him hastily. "I did not
think of it for a moment," 1 said. "I only
asked because I wanted to know-the heir-
at-law means the nearest relation, does it
not? "
"Yes," answered he, looking at me giave-
ly.
"Then, if there were others nearer than I,
they would inherit it, would they not?"
"But there are no relations nearer than
you."
"Supposing, though- only supposing-
that there were, could they break a will after
it had been signed?"
"Not under ordinary circumstances," said
he. "But why do you ask such questions?
Beryl, if you are thinking that this fortune
might be you'rs-"
"I am thinking that I will marry you this
moment, Ross," I said, with almost feverish
eagerness. "I am sorry that I have wasted
so much time; but I did not know-I did Dot
understand. If it is necessary for me to marry


96  MY TORY.MY STORY.

you before the will is signed, I-I will do it
at once. Come-quick!"
When Uncle Kendall heard that I had
consented to the marriage, he seemed pleased,
and desired that Mr. Collins might be sum-
moned at once. "He is a magistrate," Ross
said, in answer to my glance. "The legal
ceremony is all that your uncle desires. Of
course, the religious one can be performed
afterward, it' you desire it."
"I do not ear~," I answered, sincerely
enough. It would have been strange if I had
cared, considering that at that 'time of my
life I knew no more of religion than that it
was a vague abstraction, of which Aunt Ken-
dall sometimes predicated (mostly when she
was particularly out of sorts and out of tem-
per) that it was all the comfort she had, and
which was supposed to take people to church
on Sunday when they had any fine clothes
in which to go. I never had; so I stayed at
home, and was edified by scraps of cynical
atheism from Uncle Kendall's bitter old lips,
which I carefully treasured and ponder l
upon.
Mr. Collins came in with the lawyer.
Mr. Kendall had requested him to be in readi-
ness for such an event (as the marriage, not
the death) ten days before, I heard the lat-
ter explaining to Ross; so he had the will
drawn up in readiness for signing, and the
license in his pocket. "The sooner it is all
over the better," the doctor said, as he turned
away from an observation of his patient.
So, in that bare, ill-lighted chamber, with
the distorted face of the dying man before our
eyes, with the doctor standing' by counting
his feeble pulse, with Aunt Kendall sniffling
a little (purely because it was the proper
thing to do) in the background; and with the
lawyer now and then rustling his papers, Ross
and I were married. Surely a ghastlier bridal
never took place! Surely a bride never stood
more utterly and desolately alone at such an
hour! I (lid not think of it then, however.
Never having known care or love, how could
I miss it;? I had Ross. That was enough
for me. 0 my God, that would be enough
for me, I am often tempted to think, even
within the gates of Thy paradise!
After the marriage-after Mr. Collins had
uttered those words which, even from his lips,
sounded strange and solemn, "I pronounce
you man a~nd wife "-there was no rush of
c~ngratulat~on and compliment, such as I

have seen since then at weddings, where love
had a much smaller place than with you and
me, my poor Ross,! Mr. Collins shook hands
and muttered a few words, the lawyer and
doctor did the same; I heard afterward that
the latter described the marriage all over the
country-side as "the most mercenary bargain
he had ever witnessed." Aunt Kendall ad-
vanced and shook her head over us. "No
good'lI ever come of i1~" she said. "What's
begun in sorrow isn't likely to end in joy. I
never saw the like 'of such a wedding in all
my born days-never!"
Then certain inarticulate sounds from the
bed signified to all of us that Uncle Kendall
was impatient even of this delay. "The
will !" we heard him trying to say, "the will!"
Then the lawyer produced and read aloud
this important document. I tried to listen
and to grasp its meaning- for, was it not
necessary that I should do so ?-but, listen
as I would, the legal jargon was to me unin-
telligible. I could make nothing of it My
head was in a whirl. Did it give Kendall to
Ross? Did it provide that he should never
need to go back to China again? I put up
my hand and caught his, resting on the back
of the chair in which he had placed me.
"Ross," I whispered, as he bent down,
"does it give every thing to you?"
"Every thing," he answered, quietly.
Then I was satisfied. All that I desired
would soon be accomplished. When the will
was signed and sealed in the presence of the
witnesses there assembled, all which seemed
to me trembling in the balance but a little
while before, would be secured to Ross. He
would be rich and free, and could care as
generously as he pleased-far more generous-
ly than that stern old dying man would have
done-for the boy with the flushed, smiling
face and tangled, curling hair, asleep in Syl.
vy's cabin. I gave a sigh of relief, and laid
my cheek softly against the hand resting so
near, it was a very toil-worn hand; and' I
remember thinking, with a thrill of pleasure,
that, after that night, it would never need to
toil again. From first to last, God is my wit~
ness, Ross, I thought then, as I think now,
only of you!
After the will was read, the signing took
place. First, the paralyzed hand of the dying
man was guided over the letters of his name.
Then the witnesses appended their signatures.
After this-which I watched breathlessly-

NY STORY-

90

the lawyer gravely shook hands with Ross.
"A very fine inheritance, indeed, Mr. Ken-
dali!" he said. But Ross answered nothing.
I think he felt that these congratulations in a
death-chamber were out of place.
Then, while we still stood grouped about
the bed-.--watching the flickering breath come
and go, and waiting for the end-a step which
I knew suddenly sounded in the room beyond.
How I knew it-how I guessed that it was
Sylvy, who had heard of her master's illness,
and was coming to him-I cannot tell. I only
remember that I sprang suddenlyawayfrom]
Ross-I seem to see yet, as in a dream, his
look of surprise-and rushed across the floor.
With all my haste, I was only in time to meet
the old woman on the threshold.
"Go back, Sylvy!" I said, catching her I
arm. "Go back! You are too late. Uncle
Kendall is dying!"
"Dyin' or not, Miss Beryl, I'm comm' to
him!" she answered, sternly. "You nor no-
body else shall keep me back when I've got
to speak for her that's gone, and the helpless
orphin she lef'. It's no thanks to ~ I heard
about him," she added, fiercely, "an' it's not
you shall keep me away now."
"But he is dying-he is speechless. What
good can it do?"
"Speechless or not, he shall hear ole Syl-
vy!" said she. "You might as well stand
out o' my path, Miss Beryl-l'm in.
The Lord has sent me to speak for them that
has nobody else to speak for 'em-and I am
goin' to do it!'~
"No, you are not going to do it!" said I,
between my set teeth. We were standing
face to face in the door-way-I tall and
strong, she small and frail-and, as I said
those words, I put a hand on each of her
shoulders, and bore her back. It was so sud-
denly and swiftly done, that she had not time
to resist or protest. She gave way like a
reedandlwhirled her-howI have not an
idea - through the anteroom in which she
stood, clear across the' passage, and into a
sort of nondescript house-keeper's room, where
Aunt Kendall mostly sat. There I deposited
her in a chair.
"You shall not go in there to disturb a
dying man and make a family scandal before
all those strangers!" I said then-silghtly I
breathless myself. "The woman is dead-

you know that-and the child shall be cared
for better than he would ever have done.
That ought to satisfy you!"
"ilut it don't satisfy me!" cried she, as
soon as she could find her voice. "It don't
satisfy me - an' it never will satisfy me!
Every thing ought to belong to him - the
blessed chile-au' not to you nor that sweet-
heart of yours neither. It's a sin an' shame
to see hini 'at has a right to be here, turned
out for them 'at has no right-an' so i'll say,
as long as the Lord gives me breath I"
"You are a most unreasonable old wom-
an!" said I. "Did I make Ux~cle Kendall
leave his fortune away from his grandchild?
He knew he had a grandchild, didn't he?
He hasn't left it tome, if that will gratify you."
"Then he's left it to one with less right
than you," said she, sullenly.
This I did not choose to notice. "Go
back to your house," .1 said. "You are talk-
ing folly. The child shall be cared for, I
promise you that!"
"I should like for him 'at has a right to
prQmise, to tell me that," she said.
"You shall not go near him!" I cried;
but as I spoke the door opened, and Ross
walked in.
Al the first sight of him I felt my heart
die within me. Somehow I knew what was
coming then. If I had had my senses about
me, I should have gone forward at once to
meet him and draw him from the room; I
should have told him the story first myself at
any cost; but, at the moment of emergency,
my self-possession deserted me--as self-pos-
session mostly does when it is needed-and I
stood pale and silent, while he crossed the
floor and came up to me.
"My darlin"" he said, taking my hands,
"it is all over. He is dead ~
"Is he?" said I, with a gasp. Fool as
I was, and horrible as it may sound to those
who discreetly bury in silence the involun-
tary emotions of their hearts, this news came
to me with a thrill of relief. I do not remem-
ber that I even tried to be sQrry; that I even
gave one thought to the cheedess life that
had ended-to the sinful soul that had gone.
I only thought of Ross. Whatever I had
done, the result was gained. He, was master
nf Kendall now. None could gainsay that
last will and testament signed and witnessed
scarce an hour before.
"So he is dead!" said I, shuddering a lit-


98                                MYS
tie. Then I drew my hands from the kind
clasp which held them, and walked over to
where Sylvy stood.
"You hear that!" I said, in a low tone.
"Now go! After a while I will speak to Mr.
Kendall, and every thing shall be done that is
right; but you must go!"
I could not help a certain imploring ring
in my voice despite its tone of authority; and
this she caught. 'She gave me a quick glance'
of mingled surprise and defiance out of her
keen black eyes.
"I'm much obliged to you, Miss Beryl,"
*            she said, dryly; "but I'll speak to the new
master myself, since I didn't git leave to speak
to the ole one."
"Sylvy!" cried I, grasping her dress as
she strove to pass me.
*              But she broke away and walked up to
Ross, who was standing on the hearth-rug,
looking surprised at this scene.
"I ax your pardon, master," said she,
dropping her old-fashioned courtesy, "but
Miss Beryl's bin a tellin' me that ole Mass
Kendall's lef' all his property to you; an' I
thought I'd make bold to come an' tell you
that his daughter's a lyin' dead in my cabin,
an' that his grandehile's there too, with no-
body to see after him but an ole nigge~ like
mc."
"What! ~ said Ross. It was scant won-
der that he was startled. Such news at such
a time would have been likely to startle any
man.
"Are you mad?" he asked, when the
statement had been repeated. "What is the
meaning of such a story as this ?-Has she
been telling it to yozs, Beryl ?" he went on,
turning to me. "If so, what does she mean?"
"I means what I say," answered Sylvy;
for m~y tongue clove to the roof of my mouth.
"Go to my house an' look fur yourself, if you
don't believe me, or ax Miss Beryl here. ,She
can tell you, fur she seen Mass Kendall's
daughter afore she died."
"Beryl 1" said Ross. There are no words
in which I can express the mingled amaze-
ment, incredulity, and appeal of his tone.
Then, after a minute's long silence, "Beryl,
what does she mean? What falsehood or
absurdity is this? Your uncle's daughter
died long ago."
"She died this evening! " cried Sylvy, with
energy, before I could speak. "Them that
said she died long ago was liars, that wanted

TORY.
what should a bin hers. She's a lyin' in my
cabin dead this minute. Send old Mis' Ken-
dall, send Mr. Collins, send Dr. Burton. They
all knowed her when she was young. Let
them say if it ain't true an' if I'm a liar!"
11cr passionate, vehement voice carried
conviction with it. I saw that in his face
even before I heard it in his voice, when, after
a short pause, he said, sharply:
"If this is-if this can possibly be true,
why did you not come and tell it before your
master died?"
"An' how was I to know that he was a
dyin' ?.-how was I even to know that he had
got back home?" she asked. "Nobody was
goin' to come an' tell ole ~ylvy. Miss Beryl,
site knowed who was in my cabin, but instead
of sayin' a word fur 'em, she turned me back
from the door when I come to tell ole master
myself."
"Beryl!" said Ross again. This time it
was a hoarse cry, and, turning sharply away
from the woman before him, he came up to
mc.
"Beryl I" he said, taking my hands and
gazing at me with passionate, wistful eyes,
which seemed to pierce my soul; "for God's
sake, tell me-is this true?"
What could I say? I do not think I
would have hesitated to lie, if lying would
have served any purpose; but, even through
the mist of my reckless folly, I had sense
enough to know that facts were too strong
against mc for that resource. I had instinct
enough to feel that if I wished to make utter
shipwreck of Ross's love and respect, I had
only to add deliberate falsehood to criminal
silence. Therefore, I could only look at him
-at the face I loved so dearly growing white
and stern before my gaze-with piteous, im-
ploring eyes, conscious the while that my heart
was rising into my throat-so young a heart,
O Ross, and so untaught, that I sometimes
think you might have been more patient~even
with its deceit!
I saw that he read my answer in my face,
and that he would ask no other-then. He
dropped my hands suddenly, and, turning
away, walked back to Sylvy.
"Come!" he said to her in a hard, cold
voice. "Let mc go and prove this story of
yours!"
She followed him readily enough, and they
passed out of the room together-leaving me
alone. For a moment I stood bewildered.

Had Ross left me like that? Ross I-Co
whom I had done every thing? Then
rushed after him-overtaking him in the pa~
sage beyond.
"Ross," I cried, catching his arm implo:
ingly, "what are you going to do? - wh:
should you care so much for this news? Thi
will is safe. Every thing is yours!"
He turned and looked at me. I thini
sometimes that in my grave 1 shall remember:
that look. Then he shook off my hand.
"Go back, Beryl," he said, in a strange
sort of voice. "I will come to you after
while-but go back now."
"Ross, I-I should like to come with
you."
"It is no place for you," he said. Then
he led me-gently, but alas! not tenderly-
back to the room I had left, closed the door,
and went his way.
F~r a minute I was stunned. Then-well,
I do not remember much after that until I
seemed to rouse out of a wild passion of sobs
to find Aunt Kendall standing over me, a
glass of cordial in her hand, and an awed,
frightened look on her meek, commonplace
face.
Of what she said I have little more recol-
lection than if her words had been water and
my mind a sieve. I only remember that she
had been sent by "Mr. Kendall" to look after
me, to put me to bed, and to see that I rested
-and that 1 refused 'absolutely to be looked
after, to go to bed, or to rest. I demancted
to know where Ross was; but when I heard
that he was superintending the removal of
the dead body from Sylvy's cabin to the
manor, I asked no more,' I only turned with
a look that hushed even the garrulous com-
ments on her lips.
"I can hear none of that now," I said.
"Go to bed. I shall wait here till Ross
comes. He cannot be long."
But he seas long-wearily, terribly long.
Shall I ever forget the watches of that terrible
night? I did not dare to seek him again
~fter the repulse I had received; so I could
~1o nothing but wait-pacing the floor mdst
of the time in fevered restlessness, and listen-
ing with heart-sick expectation to every step
which sounded in the passage, to every one
of the sounds with whjch the old house seemed
full, the strange tide ~of life which Death al-
ways brings In his train. It must have been
very near daylight when, overcome by exhaus-

ir tion and weariness, I fell asleep in a large
I chair before the fire; and, when I waked with
a start, Ross was standing before me.'
He looked pale, haggard, and very grave,
I thought, as the morning light streamed over
~ his face; but his first words were full of con-
a cern for mc.
"Beryl," he said, "is it possible that you
have been here all night?"
"Yes," answered I, looking at him blank-
ly, numbly, as it were. I remembered every
~- thing perfectly-as perfectly as if I had not
slept-but somehow my passionate emotion
had all die&amp; away, and a great apathy had
I come over me instead.
"But why did you do such a thing?"
asked he, bringing a shawl from another part
of the room and wrapping it around my un-
resisting figure. "'It is enough to make you
ill. I thought you had~ gone to bed long
ago."
"Aunt Kendall came for me," I said, "but
I did not choose to go. You said you were
coming back, and I-I thought I would wait."
"But did you think I meant you to wait
for me all night?" he asked. "How could
you be so foolish? It will surely make you
ill."
"Oh, I am strong," said I, with a little
weary shiver, And God knows this was true
enough, else I should have died long since of
sheer pain and hopelessness.
Then for a minute there was silence.
Ross stood and looked at me. I sat and
'looked at the dying fire. 'The cold, gray day-
light streamed in through the unshuttered
windows, a cock was crowing in the yard
without; I even remember that somebody
walked across the floor of the room over.
head, and I speculated vaguely concerning
who it was. Then:
"I did not expect to find you here," Ross
said, abruptly. "I came in for a little quiet
-for a little time to think-but perhaps it a
as well that we should understand each other
at once. I have something to ask you,
BeryL"
"Well!" said I, faintly. I knew what
was coming, but I scarcely shrunk. Only-it
is a gqod thing to think that there are some
minutes of life which we shall never have to
live over; and that is one of them.
"Well," he echoed, after a second-and
his very lips seemed to grow pale with the ef-
fort of speaking-" I want to ask if it is true,

MY STORY.


100

MY sTORY.

this horrible story, that you kncw.-you, Beryl
-~of the dying daughter who had come to
seek herfather's protection for her child, and
that, standing by that father's death-bed, see-
ing him bequeath his fortune to a stranger,
you uttered not one word to warn him of the
heir who was so near-of the grandchild
whom he ~was wronging so deeply by such a
will ?"
"Rave you not Sylvy's word for it?"
asked I,' gathering myself together in the
chair, and gazing steadfastly at the embers
on the hearth.
"Sylvy's word!,' he repeated. "What is
Sylvy's word to mc? What is the word of
anybody in the world in comparison with, or
arrayed against, yours? Beryl "-he came
suddenly forward and took my passive hands
into his eager clasp-" say something to me!
Tell me 'it is not so! Tell me that it is a lie
or a mistake; tell me that it is any thiny
sooner than true, and God knows I love you
so well that I shall believe you in the face of
every proof against you 1"
Even yet I hear the thrill of imploring
passion in his voice. Even yet my tears fall
heavily to realize how much he must have
loved the woman to whom he spoke like that.
Poor Ross? It was hard on him when my
dull, mechanical answer came-spoken as if I
cared so little for his pleading or his pain.
"But I cannot tell4you any thing except
that it is true-quite true. I knew the whole
story, and I said nothing!"
"But why? Why did you not speak even
to me?"
I shrugged my shoulders a little. Such a
question seemed so foolish. "Because I
wanted the will signed," I answered.
Then he let go my hands-suffered them
to drop out of his clasp as if he had no longer
need or care to hold them.
"You acknowledge that!" he said. "You
-Such a mere child-to love money so! You
to plot for it in such a manner as this!"
* This charge, from the very bitterness of
its injustice, stung me out of my apathetic
calm.
"I thought' of you?" I cried out-" of
you only, of you all the time! I ~wanted the
fortune for you, RosS. How can you think I
wanted it for myself?"
"' how can I think otherwise?" he asked,
coldly and hardly. "It is true you secured
the fortune to me, but was it not because you

could in no other way secure it to yourself?
Do you fancy 1 do not understand now why
you only consented to marry me when you
heard that the will depended on your doing
so, and that, without a will, the property
would go 'to the heir-at-law? I was fool
enough to think you cared for me then. I did
not understand who the heir.at.law was, you
see, or how your only hope of gaining the
estate was to sacrifice yourself to me. I have
thought it all over until it has almost mad-
dened me!" he went on, turning away, and
beginning to pace the floor with a quick, rest.
less motion. "It seems so impossible-and
yet it is so plain! Such a child-and with
the very face of an angel-to have learned
the lesson of her sex so soon and so well!
And I, who should have known better, to be
so entrapped," he added, with ~ low, unmirth-
ful laugh-"1 who had known my mother,
and that other woman who looked at me with
eyes almost as frank as yours, and jilted me
to marry another man when she found that I
was poor. Unhappily, you cannot do t1~at I"
he said, stopping again before mc.
"Ross!" said I, hoarsely. My lips seemed
dry and parched. It was like a horrible
nightmare. Ross to believe that I only mar-
ried him to secure the fortune? I could al.
most have laughed at the grotesque absurdity
of the thought.
" How you shrunk from me," he went on,
"when I first spoke of our immediate mar-
riage! I cannot forget that gesture-it was
full of greater significance than a hundred
words. Then - afterward- how you forced
yourself to the sacrifice because it was 'your
only road to wealth! And now, with all your
youth and all your beauty, you are tied to a
poor man!"
"Ross," I cried, "are you mad ?-what do
you mean? The will! - you said the will
could not be set aside!"
"Except by the legatee," he answered, cold.
ly; "but I have already instructed your un-
cle's lawyer to draw up the necessary papers
for making over the estate to its rightful
heir."
"Ross!"
"You are shocked, no doubt," he said,
still more coldly. "But even for your sake-
thbugh I pity you from my heart !-I cannot
accept a bequest which is so palpably un-
just!"
Shocked t I was stricken dumb and

V

motionless, rather. Such a thought as thi
had never occurred to me for one moment.
had fancied the will to be final and unalter
able, and now-for Ross to talk of giving u~
all that I had secured to him! I could no'
speak - I could scarcely think! My ver~
heart seemed to stand still.
* "Set your mind at rest about your owi
condition," he said, after a minute, in a kinder
tone-pitying, perhaps, my white, stunned
face-" I will secure a sufficient portion oul
of the estate to make you independent-such
a portion as your uncle would no doubt have
left you-and settle it on yourself. That
much, at least, I can do for you."
For me! As if I cared for myself-as if I
had thought of myself in what I had done!
"Ross," I cried out, "do you know that
you are killing me by such cruel words as
these! What can I say to make you believe
that I-I thought only of'you? I don't pre-
tend to excuse what' I did. perhaps it was
very wicked; but I was never taught any
better. I did not think there was any harm
in being silent; but, if there had been harm,
I should have done it for you."
"I do not doubt it," he said, bitterly,
since, in doing it for me, you did it for your.
self. Nay "-almost fiercely-" do not try to
make me believe any thing else! You have
duped and fooled me long enough with your
lovely face and your wistful eyes. My God,
are women always false!" he cried out, pas-
sionately. "Is there not one of them true?
Is there not one of them who will not make a'
plaything and a tool of a man's love? If one
could have hoped for truth in any, would it
not have been in you, Jieryl? and yet how
false and mercenary your own acts prove that
you are!"
I gazed at him dry-eyed and mute. What
could I say to such words as these? Look-
ing into his white, passionate face, I felt that
all was over with me-that no protestations
could ever build up again his shattered trust.
In his eyes, I had schemed not to enrich him,
but to enrich myself; and had used his ~as-
sionate love only as the means to such an
end.
"I see you will not believe me," I said,
piteously, after a while, "but I did not think
of gaining the fortune for myself. I thought
only of securing it to you-that you might
not be forced to go back to China."
"You were very kind," he said, bitterly.

MY STORY,.

a "It is hard on you that I shall need to go
I back to China, after alL"
He spoke with a sarcasm which I should
have been quick enough to feel, only in the
terror of his words it passed me by unheeded.
All my lethargy fled then. I sprang to my
feet, and, going up to him, caught his arm.
"Ross," I gasped, "how can you frighten
me so horribly? How can you say such a
I terrible thing? You are not in earnest-you
cannot mean that you are going back to
China?"
"Do you care?" he asked, suddenly tak-
ing me into his arms. "0 Beryl, if I could
but believe that you did! 0 lovely face, why
are you not true? 0 sweet lips, why must I
fear that your very sweetness is tricking
me?"
"Ross, Ross, stay!" I cried, clinging to
him passionately. "0 Ross, my darling, say
what you please to me, believe what you please
of zne-.--only stay!"
"But I am a poor man, Beryl," he said,
more gently than lie had spoken yet. "How
can I stay?"
Then the devil prompted me to cry: "But
the fortune-O Ross, the fortune! If you
keep that you need not go. And it was left
to you-Uncle Kendall left it to you! He
never meant for you to give it up!"
Fool and thrice fool that I was! Looking
back now, I think that, in another moment,
my tearful eyes, my clinging arms, would
have prevailed over his resolution to go, and
that he might have consented to stay if those
words had not undone all. He drew back as
if they had stung him; untwining my arms,
and putting me from him with a faint, scorn-
ful laugh~
"See how easily I am duped!" he said.
"See how wrong your uncle was in saying
that my poor father w~as weaker than I! A
few tears, a few glances, and I was ready to
believe in you again, Beryl, till you show me
that you are thinking of the fortune-not of
me! Till you prove that you are only intent
on tempting me to dishonor, I see I must
go," he said, after a minute. "I am not so
strong as I thought-I cannot trust myself
with you. At least, not until all is done that
must be done."
Then, not willingly, but as one who yields
to a temptation too great to be resisted, he
took me in his arms and kissed me many
times-ah, Ross, did you suspect, though I

101


102                                MY STORY.
never, that it was for the last time ?-then,
putting me into the chair where he had found
me, turned, before I could utter a word, and
left the room.
Left the room, do I say? Rather, passed
from my life-passed so utterly that, from
that. hour to the one in which I write, I have
never looked upon his face again.
Later in the day, he left Kendall, to ac-
company the lawyer to Exford, where he
found a telegram from his employers sum-
moning him on urgent business. After sign-
ing the necessary papers for resigning the
estate, he obeyed the summons at once. A
week later, he sailed for China. Before me
lies a letter which he wrote me on the eve of
his departure. It is cold and full of business
detail-though breaking toward the end into
a tenderness beyond his power to restrain-.-
but, if you glance at its worn and yellowed
pages, you will see that they are stained with
the signs of many tears, salt as the sea and
bitter as grief. Such as it is, I do well to
prize it, better yet to weep, over it, for it is

my sole token of the love of one who sailed
away thinking that he left behind only a
woman who had deceived him, and who never
reached the distant Chinese port where her
passionate letters-poor letters! I have them,
too-waited for him through many a long
day.
And so my story ends. At least in all
save my moments of madness, I think that
so it ends. But the fate of the ship in which
Ross sailed was never known, and I-some-
times I am still weak enough to hope, to
dream, I know not what, of wild, improbable
things. Not long ago I read a poem which
seemed the voice of my own heart. It is
called "Returned-Missing," and is by Miss
rrocter, I think. One stanza I cannot for-
get:
"Not that I dream or fancy,
You know all that is past;
Earth has no hope to give me,
And yet-Time flies so fast
That all md the lm~bo8sib1e
Might le brought tach at last."

THE END.

.4

1

I.
"nj HROME.YELLOW," muttered Vance
LorLmer, tossing over the heap of
tube.paints that lay on a table by the side of
his easel. "Lake.red, burnt sienna, bistre,
gamboge-why, what the deuce has gone with
the thing, Travers?"
He raised his voice at the last word, and a
young man who was painting at the other end
of the long room, the skylight, easels, and lay-
figures of which proclaimed it a studio, looked
up and answered:
"Well, Vance; what is it?"
"H~tve you carried off the ultramarine? I
can't find it anywhere?"
"Ultramarine? I-on my honor, I don't
know. probably I have."
"Well, pray be good enough to return it,
then," said Lorimer, in an impatient tone. "I
have been looking for a tube of it everywhere,
and wasted more time than the eonfou~ided
thing is worth."
"Take permanent blue."
"No. I want ultramarine. What is the
reason you can't let my paints alone?"
"What is the reason you can't be friendly
and obliging?" returned the other, with a
laugh. "It is so mnch less trouble to borrow
from you than to send out 'and buy. Here!
be quick; catch it as I toss it to you."
He suited the action to the word, and, as
he spoke, a small tube went flying through the
air, straight at Lorimer's head. The latter
caught it deftly, and, having done so, com-
mekeed mixing some of the contents on his
palette. While he ~was occupied in this way,
his friend watched him closely, and at last
spoke, quite abruptly:
"What are you painting on, Lorimer?"
79

"On a scene," was the rather unsa.tisfae-
tory reply.
"Humph! Considering the number, of
scenes you have on hand, that is something
like saying 'on a picture.' What scene?"
"Come and satisfy yourself; if you are cu-
rious.
Apparently, from some reason or other,
Travers was curious. He laid down his brush,
and, with his palette still on his thumb, came
down the room, and, walking round his friend's
easel, paused in front of it. The first thing
he did was to give a long whistle, then he
looked up and said:
"So you are at this again?"
"Yes," said Lorime~, coolly, "I am at that
again. It is impossible to help it, Frank.
Every time I stop painting, I have the dream
over again; and each time it seems to grow
more vivid. Last night I could hardly believe
that it was not reality. You may laugh if you
like; but I tell you it is the strangest thing I
ever heard of."
"I am not laughing," said Travers, truth-
fully enough. "I haven't the least inclination
to laugh, Vance; for I really believe that, if
this thing goes on, you'll turn clairvoyant after
a while, and be dreaming dreams, and seeing
visions, like the rest of them. If I had been
in your place, I would have made a stand
against it."
"What was the good of making a stand
against it?" asked the other. "It is all very
well to talk in that way when you haven'tfelt
the thing; but, by 3ove, if you had-"
"I hope I shouldn't have taken leave of
my senses, as you seem to have done."
"How do I seem to have taken leave of
my senses?"
"Are not all your pictures lying untouched,

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

MY STORY-

102


104                  THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

and have you done a stroke of work on any
but this for a month past?"
"And how could I help either the one fr
the other 1' I felt absolutely incapable of
touching them, and irresistibly impelled to
work 6n this. I have tried again and again to
put it down, and shere is always some strong
foree compelling me to resume work on it."
"That is exactly what is the matter," said
Travers, thrusting his right hand deep into
the pocket of his blous&amp;, and looking at the
picture as if it had been a culprit, and he had
been a judge ready to pass sentence of death
upon it. "That sort of talk is not like you,
Lorimer; and it sounds badly-on my honor,
it does. A man can do any thing he wants to
do; and, if that precious picture was mine, I
would cut it up into strips, and throw It into
the fire."
"Is it such a daub, then?"
"A daub? Confound it, you know as well
as I do that it is better painted than any thing
you ever did before, and that is what provokes
me. The thing has acquired such a hold on
you that you have put into it the very best of
your power. Lorimer, honestly, I don't think
it's right."
Lorimer laughed, then looked up from the
paints he was mixing, and'gave a glance, half-
affectionate, lialf.critical, at the picture.
"There's one thing certain," he said, "it
has a look of reality-don't you think so?"
"It' has a devilish look of reality," the
other answered. "I could swear you had
painted every stroke from actual sight. Vance,
are you sure you never saw any thing like
it ?-any thing that may have been lying dor-
mant in your brain, and unconsciously brought
forth' this?"
"I am perfectly sure," Vance returned,
decidedly~, "I never saw tbe scene, or any
thing' resembling it, in my life. And as for
the people, of course I never saw them."
"You might have seen worse -looking
ones.~#
"Yes, I think I might. Stand back now,
Franrerl, Iwant to go to Work."
Travers drew 'back; but still stood by,
looking on with a v~ry disapproving face, while
Lorimer began toueh~ig the foreground of the
picture. It was not a large or a very elabo-
rate composition, nor was the drift of its mean-
ing very plain; but still it was a painting at
which any art-connoisseur would have paused
to look, and in which the most severe critic

must needs have found much to commend.
There was an earnest signification underlying
it, and a dramatic power about it which irre-
sistibly enchained attention, and made even
Travers understand the hold it had gained on
his friend.
The scene represented a mountain-gap, and
the background of the picture was entirely
occupied by scenery of the boldest yet most
luxuriant character. There was no rugged-
ness in the grand outline of the towering
hills, for they were clothed in a royal dra-
pery of almost tropical verdure, while on one
side a sunny valley stretched away, bounded
by walls 9f living green, and flecked by a hun-
dred vicissitudes of light and shadow. This
part of the picture was inexpressibly charm-
ing, and was painted with 'a fidelity, a reality
of treatment and strict attention to' detail,
which made it almost impossible to' believe
that it was not a faithful copy of Nature. The
foreground of the piece was brightened by a
small river that dashed into sight round the
base of a lordly mountain, and, widening out
in the sunshine, lay smooth and clear as crys-
tal just where the bluffs that overlooked it
made a break, and a narrow roa4 led down
between overhanging hills t~ the water's edge.
And here it was that the interest of the pict-
ure centred-for here lay a small skiff which
contained two figures in very dramatic pese.
One was a woman, a girl whose hat had fallen
off into the water, and was slowly floating down-
stream, while ~he herself, with every mark of
a recent struggle in her disordered dress, her
loosened hair and flushed, resolute face, was
springing forward, as if to gain the land. The
other was a man who stood erect, and held.
her back with one arm, while with the other
he was loosening the boat from its fastenings,
preparatory to pushing it out into the stream.
The action was very well managed, for there
was nothing strained or stiff, nothing over-
wrought or weak about either attitude, and
the faces of both the man and the woman
were so strongly marked, so thoroughly mdi.
vidiialized, that, if they had been portraits,
they would have been recoguisable at a glance.
The girl was singularly beautiful, and as her
face was upturned, and the heavy masses of
golden-brown hair fell back from it, and rolled,
like a tide of bronze, down her back, it was
easy to trace every line of the delicate feat-
ures, the clear, haughty nose, the exquisite
mouth, the finely-arched brows, the deep,

104

I

0
0
0
bO
0
I'
4)
0
C,,


THE PAINT

'I

* large, dark eyes, full of indigiiant scorn and
passionate resentment, the complexion white
and pure as the petal of a water-lily. Her
dress was very plain; but a glance was enough
to show that she was a lady. Quite as cvi.
dently, her companion w~s a gentleman. He
was tall and well made, and a studied rough-
ness of costume only brought out more plainly
the aristocratic air stamped upon his whole
personal appearance. His face was half-turned
aside, showing the profile, which was very
handsome and full of determined resolution-
resolution different from that of the girl, in-
asmuch as hers was evidently hot as fire,
while his was cold as steel. The mouth was
compressed, the nostrils were drawn, and in
the eye there was a look of such exultant tri-
umph, that involuntarily Travers exclaimed:
"There's one thing I don't understand,
Vance. How did you have the patience to
paint that scoundrel without pitching him out
of the boat?"
"It was hard," said Vance, laughing~
"but then I had no option in the matter. You
won't believe it, Frank, but there has been a
strange sort of power at work to make me
paint this thing. I don't deny4hat it has a
fascination for me, but it has a strong repul-
sion also, especially this scoundrel, as you call,
him."
"The girl is a splendid creature, though,
and she is making a gallant fight of it. What
is to become of her, Vance?"
"How should I know, Franzerl?"
"Paint a rescuer, at least. Don't let that
villain have it all his own way. By Jove I he
looks so triumphant, that it is more than one
can stand!"
"Whom should I paint, and where should
I paint him? There was no rescuer in the
dream.
"Paint him there," said Travers, pointing
to a shelving bluff crowned with luxuriant fo-
liage that overhung the river just beyond the
boat. "As for who he should be-you are
welcome to put me in. I'd like amazingly to
have even an imaginary chance at punching
that rascal's head! Or, as you are the better
looking of the two-besides being the stronger
-put yourself in, Vance."
Vance flushed a little. He certainly looked
no unfit ~ubje~t f~r a picture, as he stood
there in all the strength and stateliness of
early manhood, his well-knit figure uniting
muscular power and grace of proportion in

ER'S DREAM~                         105
such rare degree, that it might have served as
a model for an athlete. and his frank, hand-
some face full of the pleasant light that had
never failed to prepossess liking in any one
who looked upon it. Just now the blue eyes
were gazing intently at the picture so strange-
ly suggested, so faithfully worked out, and the
lips were smiling under the long, fair mustache
that fell over them and matched the crest of
crisp curls above the brow. He shook his
head at last.
"No, , Franzerl. You know what we
used to say at Dusseldorf-' always be faithful
to your inspiration.' I have never seen my.
self in this picture."
"Nor anybody else?"
"Nor anybody else."
"Well, it is deucedly hard on the poor
girl, that is all I have to say," returned Tray-
ers, in a most sincere tone of commiseration.
"I wish the thing was in the fire; for it has
bewitched you. Come, Va~ice! let us leave
work for a while, and try a tour of rustication.
I am sure we both need fresh subjects; I am
sick of my everlasting genre, and I am sure
yeu must be sick of this. By-the.byhow often
do you dream your interesting dream? Every
night?"
"No. Only when I stop painting it."
"And is it always the same? Do you
never see the dream at a little earlier or a
little later stage?"
"I have never seen a thing beyond what I
have put down here."
"And how do you feel in regard to it?"
Vance laughed a little. "I am-not 5magi.
native, or easily impressed," he said. "Fri.
manly, I feel that it is confoundedly queer;
and secondly, I feel that I should like to get
my hands on that fellow!"
"I can comprehend that sensation. But
you have not answered my question. Shall
we go somewhere?"
"My dear Frank, 'somewhere' is delight.
fully indefinite. I thought, moreover, that we
had decided that our pecuniary resources are
too limited for us to go anywhere?"
"Anywhere where money is a necessity,
of course. But I know a land of milk and
honey-don't open your eyes wider than you
can help-where money is next to~ unknown,
and quite unnecessary."
"One of the dominions of Prester John,
no doubt."
"No1 my dear friend. A region much


106

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

nearer home-in fact, the mountains of North
Carolina. The most magnificent scenery on
the continent is to be found there; your
travelling pest, 'the tourist,', is absolutely un-
heard' of;' the people are 'simple, patriltrohal,
and hospitable'; the commodities of life are so
abundant that money is positively, at a dis-
count; and, in one word, it is a modern Ar-
cadia. Let us make'a walking tour through
it."
"Walk from here to North Carolina,
Frank! Are you mad?"
"Not quite, mon ami - despite the con-
tagion of your society. Listen to my plan-.--.
it is at once comprehensive and practical.
We will take the railroad here, and follow
that commonplace mode of conveyance as far
as it will carry us-which is not far into the
mountains, I can promise you. Then we will
shoulder our knapsacks and sketch-books, and
take to our feet. We shall have to rough
it-there are no monster-caravanseries under
the name of hotels between the Yadhin and
the French Broad-and no doubt we shall
sometimes have to go fasting. But still, if we
can succeed in putting only a hundredth part
of the beauty we shall see on canvas, we shall
make our fortunes-and that's a considera-
tion."
"It sounds tempting," said Vance, balan-
cing his palette on his thumb. "But my pict-
ure-"
"Hang your picture! It is exactly that
confounded thing I am anxious to take you
away from. If we stay here, and you work
at it much longer, I shall be reduced to the
necessity of calling in a procession of priests
to exorcise you with 'bell, book, and candle.'
Come, I am in earnest-will you go?"
Vance looked irresolutely at the painting.
It cost a severe struggle to resolve to leave it
behind; but he knew that, if he did not go,
Travers himself would never consent to leave
the city, and the hot, breathless, dog-days
weic upon them. So, after a while, he made
up his mind to the sacrifice with a sigh.
"If it must be, it must," he said. "Yes,
I'll go, Franseri. But I doubt if I shall see
any thing half so lovely as this in all our
travels."
He pointed, as he spoke, to the girl in the
foreground of his picture-at which Franzerl
shrugged his shoulders and turned away.'
"'The spell is in the witch's face,"' he
said, with a laugh. "I don't think there's a

doubt, Vance, that it is; and that it has
bound you, hand and foot."
II-
"THEnE is no good in arguing the mat-
ter," said Mr. Rivers, regarding his wife with
a frowning brow; "Marion shall never marry
that man."
Now, if there was one thing more than an-
other which his family and friends had always
knqwn of John Rivers, it was that his deci-
sions were final, and that, if he once said of
any thing it "shall" or it ~" shall not~' be, the
matter, might be regarded (either, negatively
or affirmatively) as settled. He had never in
any instance been known to change his mind;
so when he looked at his wife now, and said,
in the tone of a Persian satrap, "Marion shall
never marry that man," Mrs. Rivers felt that
all argument was useless, and, sinking back
in her chair, uttered nothing save a faint, re-
proachful sigh.
"I can't imagine what ever put such an
idea into Marion's head, or how you could
ever have thought that I would consent to
it!" her husband went on, in that tone of in-
tense irritation which shows when the ther-
mometer of masculine anger is fast approach-
ing fever-heat. "It really seems as if I never
go away from home that the household does
not manage to get into some mischief. The
last time, it was Jack's scrape; and now you
coolly tell me that Marion wants to marry the
most unprincipled scamp in the country."
"My dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Rivers, in a
tone of expostulation.
"Yes," said her husband, unflinchingly.
"I mean exactly what I say: I never knew a
Rayford who was not an unprincipled scamp;
and, from all that I hear of this young man,
he bids fair to increase the family reputation.
Of course they don't lie, or steal, or do any
thing of that sort; but they are a set of gam-
bling, duelling desperadoes, and I would see
Marion in her grave before she should marry
one of them."
"But, John, is it fair to judge in this
way?" cried Mrs. Rivers, with an attempt at
appeal. "This young man came back from
Europe only the other day; and; indcedhe
seems very different from the rest of the fain-
* ily. Of course, I know what the Rayfoards
are-but he seems very different.".
"He might seem like an angel of light,
and I should not trust him," said Mr. Rivers,

I

THE PIN'J

dryly. "Besides, I tell you that I have heard
of him. I never mentioned it before, for I did
not suppose the matter would ever concern
us, and I am not given to spreading gossip;
but Harry Armstrong was in Germany at the
same time that this-what is his name ?-this
Alston Rayford was, and he told me of more
than one scandal in which his name was
prominent. You might like such a husband
for Marion, but I should not."
Mrs. Rivers sighed deeply and helplessly.
She knew that, to combat her husband's reso-
lution, was to dash herself against a rock;
and yet she sighed-partly for her daughter's
disappointment, partly for her own. Her heart
had been very much set on possessing Mr.
Alston Rayford, with his handsome presence
and charming manners, as a son-in-law; and
she could not resign the prospect without
regret. She looked at her husband, but hi~
firmly-set mouth and determined face were not
encouraging; so, after' pausing a considerable
time, she found nothing better to reply than-
"I am sure I don't know what Marion
will say!"
"That is not a matter of much impor-
tance," answered Marion's father. "As for
what she will do-she will abide by my de-
cision, and receive no more of Mr. Rayford's
visits or attentions."
"You forget that he has made an offer,
John. She' will have to see him, or else write
to him and tell him of your-your decision."
"She will have to do neither the one nor
the other. I will see him and settle the mat-,
ter."
"But, John, don't you think
"I think that you are as absurdly infatu-
ated as Marion herself," interrupted Mr. Rivers,
impatiently. "1 told you, a moment ago, that
it is useless to argue the matter. My mind is
made up; and I am the head of my own
household, I hope. You can tell Marion what
I say, or you can send her to me, whichever
you please."
"I think I had better tell her," said Mrs.
Rivers, meekly.
"Do so, then," said her husband, shortly.
"No doubt she will think that I am a hard-
hearted tyrant, 'and that she' is an injured
victim, but take care that she don't think
that there is any hope of her being ultimately
allowed to marry thd man."
Mrs. Rivers made no reply; but, from the
mere habit of obedience, rose and left the

1~ER'S DREAM.                        107
room. Once in the hall, with the door closed
between her husband and herself; she stopped
and wrung her hands. She was a delicate,
helpless-looking woman at all times, but the
helplessness of her aspect came out with pe-
culiar and almost ludicrous force just now, as
she stood at the foot of the staircase, gazing
absently out of the broad open doors at the
summer landscape beyond, and dreading the
meeting with her daughter even more than
she had lately dreaded the meeting with her
husband. But there was no alternative of
evasion. Marion must be informed of her
father's resolution without delay. "Every
thing falls on me," said Mrs. Rivers to herself,
in an injured tone-.--aud, then she began to
mount the stairs. Before she reached the
second floor, gay voices floated down to her
ear; and, when she paused on the landing, a
door just in front of her was half-open, giving
a pleasant glimpse of a chamber airy with
light summer drapery, fragrant with the per-
fume of roses and honeysuckle clambering
round the windows, and full of a ripple of
girlish talk and laughter proceeding from two
unmen mouths. Mrs. Rivers knew at once
that Marion's most intimate friend, Miss Nellie
Forrest, was with her. But this young lady
was so entirely one of the family, that no
household secrets were kept from her, and h~r
presence did not afford an excuse for procras-
tination. So Mrs. Rivers advanced at once to
the open door, and, as the two girls looked up,
her face told her story before she had time to
open her lips.
"Mamma!"
"Mrs. Rivers!"
It was an alternate exclamation; and then
the first speaker hurried on:
"Mamma, something is the matter. What
is it?"
"A. great deal is the matter, Marion,'9 an-
swered Mrs. Rivers, despondently.
"Has papa come back?"
"Yes."
"And have you told him about Aiston?"
"Yes."
"And what does he say?"
"He says he would see you in your grave
sooner than to let you marry him." ~
"Mammal"
"He absolutely refuses his consent," said
Mrs. Rivers, sitting'down in the chair nearest
to her, and looking at her daughter with an
air of appeal.


108                        THE I~AINT1I
"It is not my fault, Marion. I said all I
could-but you know your father. It would
have done no good if I had gone on my knees
to him. lIe says you shall not marry Mr.
Rayford."
"He has no right to say 50 1" cried Marion,
and she rose to her feet as she spoke, her face
flushing and her form quivering. "You need
not look at me, mamma! If he was my fa-
ther a hundred times over, he would have no
right to say so without some reason for it.
And he has no reason. Everybody knows
that there is not a thing to be said against
Alston."
"His family, Marion-"
"His family are not himself-even if you
believe, all that has been said about them.
And, for my part, I don't believe half of it"
"But your father says ho has heard some
unfavorable reports about Mr. Rayford him-
self."
"He might hear slanders and falsehoods
about anybody," Marion answered. "I see
he has brought you over to his opinion,
mamma-of cou~so that was to be expected.
Only don~~ t~nk~ that I am going to submit
like this. If papa has any charge to make
against Aiston, he ought to make it explicitly,
and give him an opportunity to refute it. But
to stab a man's character in the dark-.-if it
was any one else, I would not hesitate to say
that it looks very much like slandering!"
"Marion!" Mrs. Rivers stood a good
deal in awe of her beautiful and spoiled daugh-
ter; but really this was too much even for her
patience. "Marion, you forget yourself!
Your father never said a thing that was un-
true in his life; and with reason, or without
reason, he has a right to decide whom you
shall marry."
"He has not!" said Marion; and as she
stood there, with her face growing momently
whiter, and her eyes momently darker, it was
easy to see that she had inherited much of her
father's obstinacy. "Nobody has such a right
without some reason for its exercise. It would
be tyranny. But I will see Alston, and-"
"You are not to see him any more," in-
terposed Mrs. Rivers, hastily.
,~' Mammal What do you mean?"
"It is very plain what I mean, Marion.
Your father says you are not to receive any
mere of Mr Rayford's visits or attentions;
and that he himself will tell him that you can-
not marry him." -

R'S DREAM.

Marion looked at her mother and gave a
gasp. Such an arbitrary dictum seemed to
her so outrageous, that it was almost incred-
ible. But a moment's reflection showed her
the folly of wasting expo~tuIation or indigna-
tion on Mrs. Rivers, who was the mere mouth-
piece of her father's resolution. So, without
a word, she turned to leave the room.
"Marion 1" cried her mother, hastily,
"where are you going?"
"I am going to papa," Marion answered.
"I must speak to him. Don't try to detain
me, mamma. I must-I wrn go I"
Her mother caught her, but she drew
away, and, before she could be stopped again,
ran quickly down-stairs. Listening in mute
consternation, Mrs. Rivers heard her cross the
hail, knock at her fathei~'s door, enter and
close it behind her. Then she looked up at
Mita Forrest, who laughed and shrugged her
shoulders.
"It is a case of Greek meeting Greek,"
the latter said. "I think we may reasonably
expect there will be a tug of war."
"I am sure that Marion will be worsted,
then," said Mrs. Rivers ~ "and, whatever hap-
pens, they are both of them sure to blame
me."
Half an hour passed. At the end of that
time the door below opened, and Mr. Rivers's
voice was heard calling his wife's name. When
she came, he pointed to his daughter, who
stood in the middle of the floor, flushed, and
defiant-looking.
"There is a young lady who has adopted a
belief in the right of her sex to choose hus-
bands as well as to rule them," he said, sar-
castically. "She refuses to obey my com-
mand with regard to Mr. Rayford, and an-
nounces her intention of 'keeping faith' with
him. Whether that romantic phrase means
an elopement or not, I don't know-nor ~o I
care. I have told her that she shall never
marry him with my consent, or in my house.
If she chooses to disgrace herself by eloping
with him, that is her own affair. I have no
intention of locking her up."
"And I have no intention of eloping," said
Marion. "You know me well enough, sir, to
know that. If I must submit to your com-
mands in this matter, I shall do so. But I
only submit-I do not yield. That is, I still
hold myself engaged to Aiston, unless he
chooses to break the engagement."
"Even when I forbid it?"

I

THE PAI

"Even when you forbid it, if you give m
no reason for doing so."
"That is to say, there is to be a series ol
clandestine meetings going on all the time?"
"No. I hope I shall never forget myself
far enough to do any thing of that kind. But
if I meet Alston at the houses of our friends
I shall treat him as heretofore."
"Then I shall send you where no such in
testing meetings can occur. Lucy "-thiz
to Mrs. Rivers-" will you see that her trunh
is packed? I promised George when he was
here last that she should go to see him some
summer. This summer will do as well as
any."
"But the White Sulphur, John!" cried
Mrs. Rivers, all aghast
"The White Sulphur la ZZQt a fit place ikw
young ladies who refuse to obey their fa-
thers," answered Mr. Rivers, coolly. "You
can go there if you choose, and take the
younger girls; but Marion shall go to
George's."
"0 Marion! my dear child, why don't you
yield to your father?" cried Mrs. Rivers, with
an appeal which her daughter's face might
have showed her was vain. "You will die up
there, in those dreadful backwoods-I know
you will."
"That is papa's affair," said Marion, in a
hard voice. "If he chooses to send me into
exile and virtual prison because I won't give
up an honest gentleman who loves me well
enough to merit some constancy from me,
why, I cannot help it. The threat of being
sent to Uncle George's is not going to make
me do a thing I would not do without it."
"I did not expect to make you do any
thing," said her father. "And it is not a
threat, either-it is a certainty. I want you
to be ready next week, and I will take you to
the mountains myself."
He left the room as he spoke, and imme-
diately afterward Marion broke away from
her mother and ran up-stairs. The reason of
this was apparent when she reached her own
chamber. She was in a perfect passion of
tears.
After a while the violence of the storm
abated, and then the tale of her discomfiture
was duly told to the sympathizing ear of Miss
Forrest. It is impossible to do justice to the
disgust of this young~ lady when she heard
that, instead of the White Sulphur (for which
they had been laying gay plans, and making
8

- -

TER'S DREAM.                         109
e gay preparations that very morning), her
friend was sentenced to banishment at "Un.
cle George's." Like most Eastern Carolin-
ians, she had a profound ignorance and deep
horror of the western part-the "up-coun-
try" in Carolina parlance-of her own State;
and she would really have felt less commisera-
tion for Marion if that young lady had an-
nounced that she was sentenced to an ex-
tended rustication in the interior of Oregon.
The warmth of her friendship, and the depth
of her self-sacrificing spirit, may therefore be
imagined when at last she said;
"Well, if it is absolutely settled-if you
are really to go, there is one thing certain,
Marion, you can't go alone. As your mother
says, you would really die up there. If you
are not to be at tize White Sulphur, it has lost
all attraction for me; so, if you think I would
be welcome, I will go into banishment with
you."
"Nellie I" Marion looked up, and actually
smiled through her tears. "You are not-
you cannot be in earnest?"
"I am, though, if you will take me."
"But it would be too abominably selfish
to let you do such a thing."
"Really I should think itwas my concern
if I choose to immolate myself on the altar of
friendship. Besides, it is only changing the
programme, and substituting our own moun-
tains for those of Virginia."
"And Uncle George's for the White Sul-
phur I No, no, Nellie; indeed, it must not be.
There is no help for me. Cnsar has spoken,
and I must obey. But you are different. You
must go to the White Sulphur, do my flirting
and dancing as well as your own, console poor
Aiston, write me long accounts of every thing,
and-"
"And be wretched all the time, thinking
of you. No, no, my dear. Spare yourself
any further recapitulation of White Sulphur
delights. I am bound westward. I mean to
bear you company to Uncle George's. Mr.
Rivers won't look upon mc as a spy of the
enemy, and refuse to take me, I suppose?"
"No-I can't imagine why he should."
"Then regard the matter as settled. And
now let us see what dresses we shall take into
banishment."
III.
IN one of the most remote and wildly-pict~
uresque of the extreme western counties ofi


110

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

North Carolina, .the two young ladies soon
found themselves safely domiciled in the house
of Mr. George Rivers, and thrown upon their
own resources for amusement and entertain-
ment. As far as material comfort went, they
found nothing of which to complain ; for, al-
though the whim of pitching his tent in the
wilderness had seized .Mr. Rivers, he had not
thought it necessary to leave all the luxuries
of civilization behind, and as many as were
compatible with a mountain plantation, and a
house built of substantial logs, had accom-
panied him. His wife, too, was one of the
women who carry an air of refinement wher-
ever they go; and the hardy little mountain-
eers who were his children, though free and
frolicsome as little kids, were still full of the
.instinctive courtesy and winning grace of born
gentlefolks. On the whole, it was a very smil-
ing and happy home to which the exiles were
welcomed ; and even Marion thought she had
never seen a prettier picture than this log-
house, with its many wings and piazzas, its
shade-trees and embowering creepers. Around
in every direction stretched the grand moun-
tain-ranges, clad in their garments of primeval
forests, and before the door of the house swept
a limpid mountain-river, sparkling and foam-
ing as it dashed along on its way to join the
French Broad not far below. It is creditable
to the two girls to say that for a time they
were so much enchanted by the exuberant
beauty and overflowing vitality of this fair
region, and so ready to echo Mr. Rivers's en-
thusiastic praise of its pure air and life-restor.-
ing powers, that they almost forgot the gay
social circle they had left behind, the friends,
and even the admirers who were mourning
their absence. Whether one of them entirely
forgot the lover who was the cause of her
banishment, is a matter open to doubt ; but
at least she didl not regret him very effusively,
and threw herself with very sincere zest into
the simple pleasures of their daily life. Mrs.
Rivers, who had feared that she would find a
moping, lovesick damsel on her hands, was
delighted beyond measure with this bright
creature, who took an interest in the cows and
calves almost equal to her own ; who went on
long rambles with the children, coming back
laden down with sweet wild flowers, and lus-
~cious wild fruits, and who never seemed. to
think it necessary to revenge herself on her
entertainers for the chance which had thrown
her into their care. -

Still Maridhi and her friend were mortal
young ladies, with all the tastes and desires
of their age and class. The view from their
new home was very magnificent ; but some-
times they could not help feeling that it would
be improved if there was even a glimpse to be
obtained of another roof, or the smoke of an-
other chimney--if their nearest neighbor had
been at all companionable, or had lived with
something lesssthan ten miles of mountain-
country between them. As it was, they were
entirely isolated, and, after they had exhaust-
ed all th'e books and played all the music,
they began to find that tine hung a little heavy
on their hands. -    'hd
" Nellie," said Marion, after she ha
yawned five times consecutively one afternoon,
"let us call the children and go to walk. I
am tired to death of doing nothing, and even
scrambling over the rocks will be an occupa-
tion."                 -       ,     ,
"I am sure I am willing," said Nellhe,
lazily. " Only there's a very dark cloud
coming up from the south, and I confess I
should not like to be caught in one of these
mountain-rains. They would sweep us liter-
ally away."
" I wonder if anybody would mind that ?"
said Marion, meditatively. "I wonder if Al-
ston would think I had drowned myself in
sheer despair, and if he .would commit suicide
in consequence ? Dear me, Nell, it has been
more than a month since we came here ! Who
would believe it ?"
"I, for one," replied Nell, .with a shrug-.
" Without meaning any disrespect to any-
body, I have been in more lively places-.
Suppose we do go out and get swept away,
Marion ? It would make a sensation at home,
and win at least a nine-days' fame for us."
"Iam not sure of even the nine-days' fame ~
said Marion, laughing, and walking to the win-
dow. " Look !-see how that cloud is sweep-
ing up. In five minutes the storm will be on
us."
In less than five minutes, Mrs. Rivers came
hurrying in, and advised that the windows
should be closed. "It is no ordinary storm
that is coming," she added. " That cloud,
and this sudden, dead calm mean mischief-.
Don't stand in the open draught that way,
Marion!i You have no idea how dangerous
it is !"              ,     ,
" I am not afraid," said Marion, and she
Kept her position, watching with interest the

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

111

premonitions of coming storm that seemed to
seize all Nature. The black, livid cloud,
which a few minutes before had been a mere
speck on the horizon, now entirely obscured
the sunlight, and was spreading rapidly over
the sky, overcasting the bright day with grim
determination. But as yet all was silent. The
trees were hushed as 'if spellbound, andl the
only sound on the air was that of the birds
-which were flying about and seeking refuge
under the caves of the house, with low, dis-
tressed cries. The air was heavy and close,
and, involuntarily, Marion gasped for breath.
" What a dead hush there is ! " she said ; and,
as she said it, her eyes chanced to fall on two
strangers who had crossed the stream in front
of the house, and were advancing up the lawn
with the evident intention of seeking shelter.
They were men, young, stalwart, and dressed
in travelling-suits of nondescript material, and
yet more nondescript color. But, although the
knapsacks which they carried proved that they
were foot-travellers,a single glance showed Mar-
ion that theybelonged to agrade ofsociety rare-
ly represented in that rough region. She turned
round to call Mrs. Riders' attention to them ;
but, as she did so, there came a vivid flash of
dazzling, blinding light, a clap of thunder that
shook the house until it quivered, a crash that
sounded as if the solid mountains had been
rent asunder, and a hurricane of wind that tore
through the chamber, filling it with din and up-
roar, and throwing her prostrate on the floor.
The next thing she heard, even above the
tumult of the now raging storm, was a scream
from Mrs. Rivers.
" Look !" she cried, " the large oak has
been struck by lightning !"
Marion sprung to her feet, Nellie rushed
forward, and, regardless of danger, they all
three clustered and clung around the window. I
They saw then the meaning of the crash which
had sounded so fearfully in their ears a mo-
ment before. A gigantic oak just in front ofi
the house had attracted the electric fluid, and
its mighty trunk had been literally cleft asun-
der-one half still standing, but the other por- t
tion lying across the lawn, and including in its f
downfall two or three of the smaller trees, and t
part of the piazza-roof. A tempest of wind  g
and rain was sweeping by, but still they were ii
able to perceive that a~ man-only one-was b
fighting his way to the house, and that Mr.-Io
Rivers, with two or three servants, was hurry. Ih
ing out to meet him. When they met, the s

~py

stranger said a few wrsiaectd      man
ner the turnd adwrsent bak excied mand
steadying hiself as well as he could where
the boughs of the fallen ok la widytosn
about.genaaywdytosg
" There were two of them," said Main
with a shudder. " One has been struck.aron
As she spoke,,she saw two of the servants
unite their strength in lifting aside one heavy
limb of the tree, while Mr. Rivers and the
stranger drewv an apparently senseless figue
from beneath it, and then, in the midst ofgure
whirling, driving storm, they bore it to the
house.
The ladies ran down-stairs, and met them
in the lower ball. The injured man had bee
laid down, and a throng of children and ser-
vants were about him when they advanced.
On one side knelt Mr. Rivers, endeavoring to
discover the extent of his injuries, and on the
other his companion, feeling his pulse, and
anxiously calling his name.
"Vance, Vance,' he said, " my dear fellow,
are you much hurt?"
Marion and Nellie, who had paused in the
background, exchanged glances of commisera-
tion. "Poor fellow," whispered the former,
"look how young and handsome he is ! He
may be only stunned by the fall of the tree,
not by the lightning. I wonder if they have
tried restoratives.--Aunit Sophie-"
She turned eagerly toward Mrs. Rivers,
but Mrs. Rivers had left her side, and was at
that moment bending over the stranger. "Salts
of ammonia might restore him," she went on,
quickly. " I'll go for some.-Wouldn't you,
Nell ?"
Before Nell could answer, she was gone,.
speeding away like a deer, and returning in a
momerit with a small vinaigrette. Travers-
bending over his friend in an agony of fear
and anxiety, was not aware that any one was
near him, until a soft hand put something
ato his own, and a soft voice said :
" Try that. It may restore him."
Mechanically he looked down, and,,seeing
hat it was a smelling-bottle, held it tb: his
riend's nostrils. The salts were strongpand
he effect was instantaneous. Lorimer gave a
;asp, and his lids lifted-the eyes opening,..as
chanced, full on Marion's face. Every mem-
er of the group saw his violent stark; but
nly Travers understood him when he-raised
is head, crying, " The picture i-"' and' then
ank back fainting.


112                        THE PAINT)
There was a great commotion. In a meas-
ure, they were reassured by perceiving that
he had not been shocked by electricity; but
they soon discovered that one shoulder had
been dislocated by the fall of the tree. So he
was carried to a chamber, and such remedies
applied by Mr. Rivers (who was a very good
doctor in an amateur way) as would best in-
sure repose.
"The poor fellow jerked his shoulder-was
the reason he fainted," he said. "We must
put it in place, and then every thing must be
kept quiet."
Putting the shoulder in place was, after
some difficulty, accomplished; but keeping
every thing quiet was another matter, since
the whole household was in a fever of excite-
ment over this unexpected event. Indeed,
considering their quiet habits, they had reason
enough for excitement. A storm, almost ,un-
exampled for violence, was raging; the river
was rising rapidly; the old oak was shivered;
the piazza-roof was knocked off; one of the
horses had been killed by lightning; and two
strangers-one of them dying, or next thing
to it-were in the house! In all her lifc, Mrs.
Rivers had never had so much trouble to keep
the children within even moderate bounds of
good behavior. Nor was the excitement re-
stricted to the children. Marion and Nellie
shared it in no small degree, and laughingly
admitted as much to each other.
"It comes of the life we have been lead-
ing," said Miss Forrest, philosophically. "We
are in the condition of being 'pleased by a
rattle, and tickled with a straw,' in the way of
sensations. Not that I think this is either a
rattle or a straw! Heavens what a flash that
was! I shall never forget it."
"I shall never forget that poer fellow's
face, as he lay insensiblg," said Marion; "and,
when he opened his eyes, he looked at me
more strangely 1hai~ you can imagine. He ab-
solutely might have thought I was a ghost!
And, thenhis exclamation-did you hear it?"
~' Yes. It, was a strange thing to say."
~' And he said it, looking straight at mc, as
if Iwas the picture he meant. When be sank
back, I really thought for a moment he was
dead."
"I wonder what put a picture in his
hQad?" said Nelly, amusingly.
"They are artists," said Mrs. Rivers, who
wa~ sitting in the room, not far from the two
girls-" they are artists, out on a walking aiid

HER'S DREAM.

sketching tour. The one who was uninjured
told Mr. Rivers that they were coming here to
seek shelter when the storm overtook them."
"Yes," said Marion; "I saw them. I had
just turned round to tell you, when the flash
came, and put every thing else out of my head.
The poor fellow who is hurt was well and
strong then. How sad it seems!"
"It would seem much more sad if ht~ was
dead," said the matter-of-fact Nellie. "As it
is, I hope he is not much hurt. Mr. Rivers
says not. - 0 Tom, I am so glad to' see
that!~i
She broke off in this way, as a little darkey
came ia with his arms full of light-wood knots,
and began piling them up in the empty fire-
place. After he had erected his edifice, one
stroke of a match set fire to it, and in a mo-
ment a light, sparkling blaze was filling the
room with ruddy cheer. The ladies gathered
round eagerly-even in midsummer a heavy
mountain-rain leaves the atmosphere unpleas-
antly cold-and they were grouped together,
laughing and talking, when Mr. Rivers, ac-
companied by Travers, entered. Both gentle-
men thought it a pleasant scene; but the
young artist was especially charmed, the more
so in consideration of his long exile from any
thing which bore even the faintest stamp of
such refinement as was plainly to be seen
here. He looked at the room with its grace.
ful furniture and pictures, its open piano and
books, and at the ladies in their elegant dress-
es and glossy coronas of hair. Then he turned
to Mr. Rivers, saying, in a tone the sincerity
of which could not be doubted:
"If poor Lorimer were only well, how
much he would enjoy this!"
The ladies overheard the remark, and
looked at each other with a smile. Every
one liked him the better for this frank un-
selfishness, this quick remembrance of his
friend where many a man w~~uld only have
thought of himself. And, when he came for-
ward and was prcscnt~d to them, they gave
him such a warm anil cordial welcome as Car.
olininns like to think that only they know how
to give. They soon found that he was a thor-
ough-bred gentleman; and, when once the ice
of first acquaintance was thawed, they enjoyed
his society as much as, or more than, he did
theirs. He was a genial companion, and it
was a very pleasant evening which ensued. In
the studios of DUsseldorf, his talent as a s-a-
conteur had been fully appreciated; so it was

I

THE PAINT

no wonder that they enjoyed the history ~of
his adventures, and the more because, by a
few happy touches, he always took care to
throw the chief gloi-y of his narrative on poor,
wounded Vance. Then, at their request, he
brought out his sketch-book; and, by the
time its contents were sufficiently admired,
the usual hour of retiring had long since
passed, and it was time to say "Good-night."
It was said, therefore, with manly compliments
on both sides, many wishes for the injured
gentleman's speedy recovery, and many laugh-
ing congratulations that the storm had blown
such a pleasant visitor within their doors.
Marion and Nellie congratulated each other
warmly on this fact when they were in their
chamber, and said that a thing more charming
could not possibly have occurred. Of course,
iftheyhad been at home, it would have seemed
a matter of small importance; but, out in the
depths of the wild woods, a pedestrian artist,
who was also a polished gentleman, was a s-era
avTh not to be despised. Then they talked of
his companion, and wondered if he would soon
be well, and if he would tell them then what
he meant by that strange exclamation. They
could not forget about this, but went on mar-
velling over it, and exhausting imagination in
conjectures. It was a pity they had not been
the possessors of Hassan's invisible cap; for,
if they could only have entered the room of
the strangers, and heard a conversation then
in progress, their curiosity would have been
gratified. Lorimer was wide awake, and, after
Mr. Rivers had, with many directions and good I
wishes, left the room, he addressed himself
eagerly to his friend:
"Well, Frafizerl, what is she like?"
"Amazingly like the picture," Travers an-
swered; "yet not so much like as to justify 1
your fainting away, Vance."
"It was the shoulder made me faint," said
Vance. "Confound the thing-how it did
hurt! But, Frank, I never was more aston-
ished in my life than when I opened my eyes c
on that face-the- very face of my dream. It c
sent a thrill through me as if I had seen a f
ghost."                                   r
"You looked as if you had," said Frank, a
(lryly.                                   a
"Did anybody notice it? Did they ask n
you about it?"                            a
"They must have iioticcd it; but they are ~
too well-bred to ask about it. I never saw v
more cultivated people, Vance. And yet they tI

ER'S DREAM.                           113
are buried here among crackers and rattle-
snakes. Isn't it a strange taste?"
"They love man less and Nature more than
most of us do," said Vance. "But that face!
It haunts me; I cannot get over the shock the
first sight of it gave me. Frank, do you think
I have been brought here to meet her?"
"To get your shoulder~ dislocated, more
likely. Nonsense, Vance! She resembles
your picture, but in no extraordinary degree.
The same general east of feature, the same
eyes and hair-that is all. Your fancy has
done the rest."
"My fancy has done nothing," said Vance,
decidedly. "I tell you it is the very face of
my dream! It has a different expression--
that is all the change. Frank, you cannot
imagine how strangely it has made me feel."
"No," said Frank, shortly; "but I can im-
agine that it will put you in a fever, if you go
on at this rate. Deuce take the picture, and
every thing connected with it! Do stop talk-
ing, and go to sleep. There's an opiate here
the old gentleman said I was to give you if
you didn't. On my honor, Vance, you'll find,
when you see the girl, that there is no such
astonishing likeness. She is charming, how-
ever, and the other one-there is another one,
you know-even more so. You had better
get well, and snake their acquaintance; and
you won't get well, if you don't stop talking."
"It is she!" said Vance.
But he spoke softly, as if to himself, and
ifter that he lay quite still. Perhaps Travers's
Last remonstrance had some effect, for he said
ao more, and before very long sunk to sleep.
[a an hour or two he woke suddenly, with a
~asp and a start.
More vividly than ever before, the dream
iad come to him.
IV.
TuE next morning Mr. Rivers found his
patientt in a very feverish and unfavorable
condition. The shoulder was worse instead
f better, the bruises were exceedingly pain-
ul, the pulse was racing along at a more rapi~l
ate than promised well for physical good,
nd, on the whole, he thought it necessary to
isue an immediate order for close confine-
ient and medical treatment. Vance rebelled
little at first, but was brought to terms by
irs. Rivers, whose~ bright face and gentle
oice worked such a magical transformation
ic moment she entered his room, that he


succumbed at once into her hands, and yielded
himself captive without even a desire for res-
cue. She was light in her rule, however, and
only made him keep quiet, leaving the medical
question entirely to her husband, and pro-.
viding, on her part, dainty invalid dishes and
invalid amusement. Vance was charmed, and,
if it had not been for that face, of which he
had only caught a glimpse-that strange,
beautiful, haunting face that had so often
shone on him in his dream-he would have
asked nothing better than to play invalid in
this pleasant, airy chamber, with such a glo-
rious mountain-view through the window near
at hand, and such a sweet-faced, silver-voiced
nurse to redeem even sickness from being
dull.
This enjoyment was not of long duration,
however. On the third day he was emanci--
pated from durance, and suffered to make one
of the group who with books and work were
gathered on the shady lawn not far from the
spot where he had been struck down. In three
days Travers had managed to make himself
thoroughly at. home; and Vance, who knew
his free-and-easy ways, was not surprised when
he came out with Mrs. Rivers, and found him
reading ,aloud to the young ladies, as if he
had known them for months instead of days,.
Vance himself had none of this genial ease
about him. He was, if any thing, a more
polished gentleman than his friend, more full
of inborn, stately graces, more keenly alive to
shades of social courtesy, more full of' social
tact, but he lacked almost entirely the gay
bonhomie and frank good-fellowship that made
Travers so popular wherever he went ; and,
lacking this, he lacked every thing that was
worth having in the eyes of a great many men
and women of the world.
" We are all thoroughly charmedi with
your friend," Mrs. Rivers said, as they came
out of the house together ; and, looking at
the group on the lawn, Vance answered, with
a smile:
" I can well believe that, and I don't won-
der at it. Travers is suck a good fellow that
hie deserves to charm everybody. He charmed
me, I am sure.-How pleasant this looks !" .
" We sit here a great deal," said Mrs.
Ri'vers ; and, as they approached, she spoke
to Marion, who was next her : " My dear, here
is Mr. Lorimer, who, I am glad to say, is well
enough at last to join us. I hope-"
What she hoped was left to conjecture,

for, as she spoke, Marion turned round, and
her face, thus suddenly presented to Lorimer's
gaze, made him stagger back without a word,
and sit down in a chair near at hand. For his
life he could not help' it. He knew how
strangely such conduct must appear ; he knew
that three pairs of eyes were regarding him
with profound astonishment; he knew how he
had prepared himself for this meeting, aware
that it must come, but yet he could not help
it, and he could not say a word. The weird
feeling that we all know when any thing border-
ing on the supernatural comes near us seized
him without any warning, and, try as he:
would, he found himself tongue-tied, with the
face of his dream looking at him. It was
Travers who spoke first, coming to his rescue
with commendable quickness-.
"Vance, you shouldn't have forgotten that
you are still an invalid. Shall I get you some
water ? You look quite faint."
" Thank you," said Vance, with a grateful
look. Then he glanced up at Marion. " Miss
Rivers, pray excuse me. A sudden faintness
-a giddiness-quite overcame me. I had no
idea I was so weak."
"It would be strange if you were not,"
said Marion, kindly. " Do sit still. Will you
not have a fan?"
He took one which she handed to him,
laughing to himself the while that he, of all
people, should be playing hysterical fine gen-
tleman at this rate. Mrs. Rivers sent Travers
for some water, and levied upon Miss Forrest
for sal-volatile. With the aid of these two
restoratives, he was at last allowed to declare
himself recovered, and to be believed. After
this small excitement subsided, Travers fin-
ished one of Aytoun's " Lays " that he had
been reading aloud ; and then Richard-that
is, Mr. Lorimer-was himself'again. Marion
thought him quite as handsome as she had
thought him when he lay pale and stunned on
the day of the storm; but she could not help
noticing-'a woman of perceptions, less quick
than her own, must have noticed-that, from
some cause, her appearance, her manner, her
voice, every thing about her, had a singular
attraction for him. It was not exactly admira-
tion-she had been too long accustomed to
that to mistake it-nor curiosity, nor any
thing else for which there is a definite name ;
but an interest that puzzled her by its singu-
larity, and yet fascinated her by its intentness,.
More than once she caught those clear-blue

timely.
And there, for the time being, the subject
dropped.
It was renewed again that evening when
they were all assembled in the drawing-room,
and, thanks to Travers and Nellie, canvassed
openly. With some hesitation, Lorimer was
induced to tell the story of the dream, of its
persistent recurrence, of the face that seemed
compelling him to paint it, of the hold it had
gained upon him, and, the vivid manner in
which it had returned at sight of Marion's
face. They were all greatly interested, and
every one followed Miss Forrest's lead in
professing the greatest curiosity to see the
picture-.
"If you had onry brought it with you,"
said Mr. Rivers, "I would really give any
thing for a glimpse of it."

114  HE PINTE'S DEAM.THE PAINTER'S DREAM-                                                                         11

eyes regarding her with a gaze so keen and
strange that it amused, even while it per-.
piexed her.
- "I wonder what is the matter with me ?"
she thought. " People don't usually look at
me as if I had lost my nose, or suffered some
other calamity of the sort. I must ask Nel-
lie what the meaning of it can be."
When they went to the house, she carried
this intention into execution, and Nellie, in
reply, told her the history of the dream-pict-
ure which Travers had meanwhile been relat.-
ing to her.
As may naturally be supposed, Marion was
very much excited and interested-the more
so when she remembered the exclamation Lori-
mner had made on first'seeing her face, and
understood now what it meant. ~
" But it cannot be!i" she cried. " I must
only resemble his picture. It is so strange !
-Nellie, I should not like to think it was I !"
" Mr. Travers says it might pass for your
portrait," Nellie answered. "Every line of
the face is identical, and the only difference is
in expression. I wish you could have heard
him describing the manner in which the pict-
ure fascinated Mr. Lorimer. It was to get
away from it that they came out here." .
"And ran full tilt on the original," said
Marion. " It is laughable, and yet it is awe-
some. It is like spiritualism or clairvoyant
nonsense, Nellie. I don't-I cannot believe it !"
" I only know what Mr. Travers told me,"
said Nellie. "But I should like amazingly
to see the picture and judge for myself."
"So should I," returned Marion, medita.

"Vance, haven't you the original sketch
in your portfolio ?" asked the irrepressible
Travers. "Iam almost sure I saw it there the
other day."
Vance colored, and glanced at Marion.
" I believe there is a sketch there," he
said. " But it is only a crayon outline. I
could not make up my mind to leave every
thing about the picture behind."
"Show it to us, Mr. Lorimer-pray do,"
said Mrs. Rivers.
And immediately there rose a chorus
of'-
" Oh, yes, Mr. Lorimer, pray do !"
Lorimer hesitated. Some instinct strongly
warned him not to comply with the request-
but then, what excuse could he give for re-
fusal ? Three or four eager faces were look-
ing at him in expectation of his compliance;-
and it would seem ungracious and churlish to
deny their curiosity this small gratification.
Yet it was sorely against his will that itt last
.he said :
" I will go and look for it."
'He was not long gone. The portfolio
must have been very near at hand, for he soon
returned with a small crayon-sketch, which
he gave to Mrs. Rivers.
"I am not sure that you will see the like-
ness," he said. " This is very carelessly done ;
but it is the outline.".
It might have been carelessly done, but
still there was graphic power in every stroke,
and the whole scene was transcribed as for-
cibly and clearly, if not quite as elaborately,
as on the canvas left behind in the forsaken
studio. Mrs. Rivera had evidently been quite
unprepared for any thing like this. She ut-
tered an exclamation of mingled amazement
and admiration when her glance fell on the
paper.
"What a strongly-drawn scene !" she
cried. "Why, this girl is Marion herself!-
Mr. Lorimer, it cannot be that you drew it be-
fore you saw her !"
Lorimer pointed to a date two months
back, which was inscribed in a corner of the
drawing. " This was the first sketch I made,"
he said. " It was drawn on that day."
"It is incredible !" cried Mrs. Rivers, using
the exclamation as people do, without exactly
meaning that it was incredible. Then she
held the drawing at arm's-length, and appealed
to the company in general. " Look ! did you
ever see a more striking likeness ?"

114

115


116       -THE PAINT:
"It is perfect," said Mr. Rivers, looking
over her shoulder. " Every feature, every
line.-Mr. Lorimer, I would never have be-
lieved this excepting from actual sight. And
that wan ! Surely, I have seen his face some-
where."
"I have never seen him," said Vance,
quietly. ." I can believe any thing, however,
after meeting Miss Rivers."
"Let me see," said Nellie, crossing the
room. She took the sketch, and the next
moment gave a scream.
" Good Heavens!i" she cried. " There is
something uncanny about this! The girl may
be like Marion, but the man is Alston Ray-
ford !" -
" What!" cried Mr. Rivers, while his wife
looked quickly at Vahece, and Marion came
forward quite pale.
"Give it to me," she said, in a low voice.
And, while she took the sketch and stood
looking intently at it, there was not a sound
audible in the room. Instinctively, the two
strangers felt that something awkward had
occurred, or was about to occur; and the
others all held their breath, gazing at Marion's
face. It was not an encouraging face by any
means, for it hardened and whitened while
they gazed, the sunny beauty fading out of it,
and a stern, settled resentment like her father's
coming over it. After a minute or two, she
laid down the drawing, and looked at Vance.
"I suppose Mr. Lorimer means us to be-
lieve that this also was part of the dreams"
she said, in such a cold and haughty voice
that Vance colored and drew himself up, as
almost any man would have been apt to do.
"It was certainly part of the dream, Miss
Rivers,". he answered, as coldly as herself.
" That is the first sketch I ever made of it--
exactly as it appeared to me then, and has
appeared to me always."
" And you never saw Mr. Rayford or my-.
self before drawing this ?"
" I never saw yourself, and, as for Mr.
Rayford, I never even heard of him before.
If that resembles him, it was from no inten-
tion on my part of drawing a likeness of any
face save the one seen in my dream."
He spoke proudly; for he saw that the in-
credulity on Marion's face deepened, instead
of disappearing at his words. She glanced at
the sketch, and thenrback at him, with a sig-
nificance that hardly needed the aid of lan-
guage to express its indignant disbelief.

HER'S DREAM.

"I am sure Marion does not mean-" be-
gan Mrs. Rivers, eagerly. But Marion inter-
rupted her, coldly.
"Excuse me, aunt, but I think Mr. Lorimer
understands what I mean. This is a day of
marvels," she went on, looking at the young
artist ; " and wonders of all kinds abound;
but I do not know that I have ever heard any
thing like the story you propose to our belief.
I am a matter-of-fact person, and this must
excuse my incapacity to credit that you drew
these striking portraits of Mr. Rayford and
myself without ever having seen either of us.
Why you should have shown them to me, I
cannot imagine. But of one thing I feel sure
-that you did well in selecting me, for he
would be even less credulous than I have
proved."
Then she turned, and, without another
word, walked out of the room.
The group left behind looked at each other
as if they had been thunderstruck. Mrs. and
Mr. Rivers,,together with Miss Forrest, hardly
knew what to say; Travers was overcome
with astonishment, and Lorimer was burning
with indignation. The latter was the first to
speak-walking across the room, and taking
up the sketch, while he addressed himself to
his host.
"I am sorry that, after having made such
a charge, Miss Rivers should have gone away
without hearing my reply," he said. " I hope,
sir, that you will do me the justice to believe
that I never saw her until I entered this
house, and that I have never seen the gentle-
man to whom she alludes. In fact, it is im-
possible that I should have done so. I am a
Georgian by birth, but I have spent many
years in Germany; and, since my return to
America, I have lived entirely in Baltimore.
With Carolina, and Carolinians, I am wholly
unacquainted. As regards the dream, I am
unable to offer the least explanation. It has
been a mystery to me from the first ; and I
need not say that it hast grown even more
mysterious since I saw your niece. As she ob-
jects to even an accidental likeness of herself
remaining in my possession, I can do this-"
he rapidly tore the sketch into fragments
-" and I must beg you to assure her that the
painting shall share the same fate when I go
back to Baltimore."
"My dear Mr. Lorimer," began Mr. Rivers
-but Mrs. Rivers took the matter of reply in-
to her hands, and iuite bore him down.

I

I

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

" Marion is very much to blame, Mr. Lori-
mer," she said, eagerly ; " but I am sure she
will be very sorry for having spoken so. It is
some excuse for her that your drawing placed
Mr. Rayford in a very equivocal position. He
is a gentleman to whom she is engaged-or,
I should say, would be engaged, if her father
had not refused his consent. She is staying
with us now on account of this ; and of course
she is very sensitive about any allusion to
him.-Yes, my dear,1I know these are family
matters-" this to Nellie, who had entered an
aside remonstrance-" but I think Marion's
friends owe Mr. Lorimer an explanation of
her conduct."
"And an apology," said Mr. Rivers, find-
ing an opportunity to speak, and embracing it
without loss of time. "Mr. Lorimer, I am
truly sorry that my niece should have forgot-
ten the most common rules of courtesy in this
way. If the picture was a likeness of young
Rayford-" .
"It was a most astonishing likeness," in.-
terposed Nellie.
"I only saw him once, and my wife never
saw him at all," went on Mr. Rivers. "But
if it was a likeness, I don't see that it justifies
.Marion. In fact, the only thing about it is
that it makes the dream more astonishing-so
astonishing, that it would puzzle a modern
Joseph to read it."
" I am not a modern Joseph, but it puzzles
me," said Lorimer. " I have had only one
decided impression about it from the first-
that it would bring mc either very good or,
very bad luck. It has already brought me a
measure of both, in granting me the pleasure
of your acquaintance, and being the cause of
my unintentionally offending your niece. I
wish very much that she had given me an op-
portunity to explain-but then, perhaps, an
explanation supported only by assertion would
have done no good."
"Not with an angry woman, and a woman
in love," said Mr. Rivers, shirugging his shoul-
ders. "Now, I have one favor to ask-that
you will not let this contre-temps shorten your
stay with us." *
Lorimer looked at Travers, and there was
the same unspoken resolve in both pairs of
eyes. Then he glanced back at Mr. Rivers.
."My dear sir, you are very kind, but there
.is no question of shotitening our stay. It has
already prolonged itself further than it should
have done; and we must leave to-morrow

morning. There is nothing for us but to thank
you for your hospitality and make our adieux."
Mr. Rivers, seconded by his wife and Nel-
lie, said all that it was possible to say against
this decision; but the two friends remaied
firm. No argument or entreaties had any
effect on them; and the next morning, bright
and early, they took their departure, exchang-
ing many cordial farewells with the rest of the
family, but not even seeing Marion, who kept
her own room.
V-
THREE weeks passed. By the end of that
time, the summer was drawing to a close, and
Marion and Nellie were ready to hang them-
selves from .sheer ennui. The weekly mail
was the only thing that still retained interest
for them; and they watched-for this anxiously
-hoping each time for the welcome news of a
summons home. The summons home did not
come, but one day a letter from Mr. Alston
Rayford did. Nellie, who opened the post-
bag, knew the writing on the envelope, and
watched Marion anxiously when it was handed
to her. Miss Rivers had a good deal of self-
control, however, and she did not betray emo-
tion by any sudden start or blush. She only
pocketed the missive very quietly, and after a
while went up to her own room. When her
friend followed, in a flutter of excitement,
she found her sitting in an attitude of deep
thought, with the letter open in her hand.
Miss Forrest was hardly in the room before
she broke into eager questioning.
" Well, Marion, what is the news ? Has
your father at last consented ?"
Marion looked up-pale as she always grew
when other people would have flushed. '"Con-
sented !-Papa ? ", she said. " You might as
well ask if the river had flowed backward.
No, he has not consented. On the contrary,
he has again refused Aiston, in the most in-
sulting manner."'
"Did Mr. Rayford ask his consent again? "
"Yes. He grew impatient. He could not
bear the suspense and the long waiting-mm
never can, you know-and so he went to papa.
He was repulsed-Nellie, I cannot tell you how
he was repulsed."
" I can imagine," said Nellie, with a signifi-
cant shrug.
4"Yes-I suppose you can. Well, he was
repulsed, and now he has come to me."
" Come to you ! Not up here ?"


TER'S DREAM.

'118                        THE PAIN
"Yes, up here. I am sorry, very sorry fo
it-I have a contempt for any thing like clan
destine prdceedings-.-but he has come, and
cannot refuse to see him."
"Mr. Rivers will spare you that trouble,'
said Nellie, dryly. "I can tell you before
hand that he will never allow Mr. Rayford t4
meet you in his house."
"I have no intention of asking his consent
nor of meeting him in this house," said Man
on, hayghtily. "Alston is staying, or will in
staying soon-this letter was mailed in Mor
gantown-at a farmer's near here. I shal
meet him in the woods."
"Marion!"
"Well, what is the matter?"
"That seems so-so clandestine, and un
worthy of you."
"And am I not forced to it? "said Marion
flushing; "when Aiston has travelled hun
dreds of miles merely to see me, can I send
him back without a word? And where should
I meet him, excepting in the woods? The hill.
side is just as free to him as to us."
"I cannot think it is right; but if it must
be-when is he to make his appearance?"
"That I do not know. Mountain travelling
is very uncertain, and he may be in the neigh.
boyhood now, or he may not arrive for several
days. He has been here before, however, and
he appoints a place of rendezvous."
"I hope it is a place we know."
"Yes. It is the Old Ferry. We can walk
there easily, and he can come by the river. It
is a lonely place, and there is no danger of
meeting anybody."
"There never is danger of that in this de.
rightful region. And do you want me to bear
you company?"
"Of course," said Marion, flushing again.
"You don't suppose I want to go alone? I
know you disapprove of it, Nellie; and so do
I, for that matter. Bet I cannot refuse-and
it is only for once."
"I hope it may prove only for once," said
Nellie, anxiously. "Do we go this after.
noon?"
"I think we had better do so."
So that afternoon they donned their hats
and set forth, disappointing the children very
much by declining to take them along, but
otherwise going as if for one of their usual
rambles. They followed a path round the hills,
and soon came to the place of rendezvous-a
beautiful nook of the river where a disused

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

119

r, road swept down to what had once been a
ferry, and which still retained the distinction
I of the name, though it had long since lost the
distinction of the fact. Here they sat down to
rest, with very little expectation of seeing Mr.
- Rayford that afternoon. They were destined
to a surprise, however; for they had hardly
finished agi~eeing that he would not come, and
begun talking of views and perspective, and
the lovely mountain.scenes before them, when
3 there was a dash of oars in the water; a small
skiff shot round' a bend of the stream, and,
1 in another moment, Mr. Alston Rayford bad
sprung on shore and stood before them.
He, looked as eager and handsome as a
man should look when he is engaged in a ro-
inantic love.adventure; but he came forward
and made his greetings with a graceful defer-
ence which quite ignored the fact that this
meeting did .not take place on a drawing.room
carpet. He was a very fine gentleman, there
* was not a doubt of that; and his manners
and appearance were unexceptionable. Yet,
strangely enough, Marion's first sensation
was one of disappointment-seek disappoint.
mont as many a girl has felt when, after long
* absence~ the hero of her dreams is sudd~nIy
brought before her in his own proper pei~son.
It is clearly impossible to guard against such
revulsions, since all women create illusions for
themselves, and all illusions must sooner or
later be broken. So perhaps it is as good a
test as any for true love, whether or not it
can survive the inevitable hour when glamour
fades nnd sober daylight comes in. This test
was now to be applied to Marion's love; but
such things are not decided in a moment, or
in many moments-only it was unpromising,
to say the least, that her first sensation was
not of joy, or welcome, or pride, but of sud-
den, chill disappointment. Yet, what disap-
pointed her she could not possibly have told.
The Alston Rayford she had known, the Al-
ston Rayford she had wished and even prom-
ised to marry, stood before her, unchanged by
even so much as a shade; and yet, something
was gone. The glamour of fancy bad faded,
daylight had come in, and it remained for the
future to show whether himself an4 the love
he had inspired would stand the searching test
of that daylight.
Before long, Miss Forrest wandered away
on a professedly botanical exclusion, and left
the lovers to themselves. The conversation
which ensued was very animated, and some-

times even verged on excitement. She could "What is the matter, Marion? You look
see that, though she could hear nothing from worried."
the hill-side perch where she had established "I am worried," said Marion, briefly.
herself, and where her botanical researches "About your father?"
consisted of poking at a bunch of ferns with "No-about Alaton,"
the point of her parasol. She was not at all "Indeed! What has he done?"
romantically inclined, and she could not help "He is foolish and inconsiderate enough
wishing, for her own sake as well as for to urge me to elope with him"
Marion's, that Aiston Rayford had stayed at "0-h!" Miss Forrest shrugged her
home, and had not forced this" highly-improp. shoulders. "Well, my dear, I don't know
en 'proceeding upon them. It was tiresome- that you have any right to be worried or as-
very tiresome-this sitting on a stone, with tonished at that. Of course, it is what you
nothing but her own thoughts and a bunch of might have expected."
ferns to amuse her, while Mr. Rayfond talked "What I might have expected!" repeated
on and on, in the most unconscionable manner, Mtirion, with her color rising. "I don't know
and seemed urging Marion to something which what you mean, Nell. I think that I might
Marion plainly refused. Miss Forrest yawned, hare expected some respect from Mr. Rayford.
and wondered how long she would have to I consider this next to an insult."
watch this discussion in dumb show. "It is "And I consider that you are very Un.
as good as a pantomime," she said to herself; reasonable. Mr. Rayford wants to put some
but, somehow, it was not as amusing as a definite end to this very indefinite state of
pantomime. Then she caught a profile view affairs, and I ~am sure I cannot blame him.
of Mr. Rayford's face, and something about it Pray tell me what you seriously expect of
recalled the crayon-sketch which Vance Lori- him? Your father absolutely refuses to ac-
men had torn up, and set her at work consid- cept him as a legitimate suitor, and you are
ering what a perfect likeness it had been, and insulted at the mere mention of an elopement.
how she scarcely blamed Marion for being in- Where is ~he middle ground between these
credulous (as Marion still continued) of the two things?"
dream-story which purported to excuse it. "Can he not wait? I am willing to do so.
Then her thoughts wandered away, following And patience conquers all things."
the erratic footsteps of the two young artists "My dear child, some good might come of
who had come so suddenly into her life, and waiting if Mr. Rayford was a paladin, and you
gone so abruptly out of it; and she was punch- were an angel. Butt as it is, nothing but un-
ing at the ferns more vigorously than ever, pleasant complications would come-and he
and smiling to herself over a remembrance of has sense enough to see, it. It is easy for you
Frank Travers's hazel eyes and pleasant voice, to say 'wait.' You are a woman, and the
when the rattle of a chain made her look up, slightest part would fall on you; but he is a
and to her great relief she saw that Mr. Ray. man, and, naturally, he does not fancy the
ford was entering his craft and pushing oil', prospect of an engagement which fetters him
"Indeed, it is high time," thought she, with without giving any ~ssnred good, either past,
an indignant glance at her watch, and then at present, or to come, in return."
the sinking sun. She stood up, however, and "iVhat is the drift of all this, Nell? I
waved her hand in answer to his farewell confess I don't understand. Are you, too,
gesture; then, while he pulled lazily out of urging an elopement?"
sight, went down to meet Marion, who was "No, I am only excusing Mr. Rayford for
walking toward her, having done so. I am only saying that it i~
Marion looked vexed and overclouded, and what any man would do."
not at 'all as a girl might be expected to look "He might have more regard for me."
who had just parted from her lover. There "My dear, men are selfish; and he has
was no tinge of sentimental sadness in her some regard for himself'."
aspect, no token of the regret that is in itself Marion walked on in silence for a. time-
a pleasure; but rather annoyance of some her brows bent, and her lips compressed.
very practical and decided kind. Miss For- Evidently she was'forming some resolution;
rest saw this at a glance, and her first remark and, when once formed, Marion's resolutions
was a question. were very much like her father's in the'


120

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

item of steadfastness. At last she looked
up.
"You are right, Nell," she said; "and you
need not talk of the selfishness of men, for I
am sure no man was ever more selfish than I
have been. I forgot entirely that all the bur-
den of a prolonged engagement would fall on
Alston; and 1 have held him boundwhen 1
ought to have set him free long ago. I will
make amends in the only way I can, and that
at once."
." By eloping ? " asked Nell, in sudden
alarm.
"No. By putting a final end to our en-
gagement. Why should you look so sur-
prised? I am sure you have shown me that
it is the only right thing to do."
"But, Marion! You-you are in love
with him!"
"Not much," said Marion, coolly. "Not
enough to break my heart about setting him
free. But, if it did break my heart, and it
was right, it should be done."
"But you will not s~,e him again?"
"Yes. He insisted that I should meet
him to-morrow afternoon. I refused, but I
am very sure he will come to the ferry. When
I parted from him, I did not mean to go; but
now I shalL"                         -
"He will think you are coming to elope
with him."
"He wilibe mistaken, then."
This sentence ended the conversation; for,~
just here, the children came unexpectedly
trooping from a by-path, and were all so full
of a wonderful nest of snakes that one of the
servants had discovered, and into which he
had carried wholesale destruction and ravage,
that their tongues did not once cease running
until the party reached home.
The next day Miss Forrest was confined to
her chamber with a headache, which she de-
clared was solely the result of the unusual
mental exertion to which she had been driven
on the precedingafternoon.
"You see, I had nothing to do but think
while I was out on the hill-side punching at
those ferns," she said; "and, not being 'used
to so much thinking at one time, it has made
my bead ache as if-really, as if it would
split!
Under these circumstances, it was of course
clearly impossible that Marion could ask her
to submit to the same ordeal again. So, re-
luctantly enough, she resigned herself to the

necessity of meeting Mr. Rayford at the Old
Ferry quite alone. When the afternoon wore
on, and the sun began to cast long shadows
across the green turf; she took her hat and a
book, and set forth unchallenged to keep her
tryst.
It was not a long walk to the appointed
place, and, when~ she reached there, she found
Mr. Rayford's boat made fast to the bank, and
Mr. Rayford himself pacing to and fro in all
the impatience of mingled doubt and expecta-
tion. When he caught sight of Marion's white
dress, he rushed forward to meet her, and
poured forth his thanks so warm and fast, that
at last she was forced to check them.
"Please don't thank me any more," she
said, "at least not until you hear why I have
come. You may feel obliged to me when you
do hear; but then, again, you may not."
"I feel obliged to any thing that gives me
a sight of your face, Marion, even if you mean
to refuse again the prayer I have come to
urge."
"I don't mean to discuss that," she said,
hurriedly. "I gave you my answer-the only
answer I have to give-yesterday afternoon.
No, Aiston. I blive come to do something
much more kind. I have come to release you."
"To do what, Marion?"
"To give you your freedom from bondage,"
said she, trying to smile and speak high~ly.
"I ought to have done it long ago; but indeed
it ne~-er struck me, until after I parted with
you yesterday, how selfishly I have been act-
ing in keeping you bound. Papa will never
coilsent, I am sure; and I-I cannot elope.
Aiston, dear Aiston, will it not be better for us
to part?"
She looked up at him with her eyes full of
'half.sad appeal-when is any thing that deals
with parting not sad ?-and she met in return
a simplyincredulous surprise.
"This is not like you, Marion," he said.
"Some women make nothing of such words as
these; but you are not one of them-and it is
not like you. There is not-there never can
be-any question of parting between us."
"You are mistaken," said Marion, who was
not likely to be borne down in this sort of
way. "There is a question, and a very serious
question of it. Alston, what do we gain by
holding on as we have been doing?"
"We gain the prospect of happiness, Ma-
rion; and we might gain the certainty, if you
would only yield to me."

I

~C You mean if I would elope?"
"I mean if you would marry me, without
waiting for a consent that your father will
never give.
"And would you be willing to marry a
woman who could do such a thing, Aiston?
I should think you would distrust her, even
where you were concerned. I can never do
that. So the only thing left us is to part."
"You say that very coolly, Marion. Has
absence, then, worked its usual effect? has it
taken youi' heart from me?"
"If that were so, Aiston, do you think I
would be standing here now? No. I love
you as much as I ever did; but I have grown
a little older, and a little wiser, since I prom-
ised to hold fast for a lifetime, if need be; and
I see that it would be more selfish than kind
to do so. If you only knew-"
"I know this," he interrupted, passion-
ntely, "that while you talk, I feel; and that I
will not give you up at the bidding of a thou-
sand fathers-nor at your own, either. I have
never yet surrendered any thingthat was mine
once; and you are mine now, Marion!"
"I am yours only as long as I do not claim
my freedom," said Marion, a little haughtily.
"You are mine until death comes between
us," repeated her lover; and over his hand-
come face there came the "Rayford look "-a
look well known wherever the desperate, fear-
less Rayford blood had planted itself; and
which had never yet boded good to any one
who crossed their path, or disputed their reck-
less, determined will. "You are mine, and,
once for all, I will notgiveyouup!"
Marion drew back proudly. It was a ques-
tion whether she had ever really loved this
man, but at least it was certain that she had
never loved him well enough to submit to such
language as this from him.
"You forget yourself," she said. "If I
choose to dissolve our engagement, you will
have no alternative but to give me up."
"And do you mean to choose to do so?"
said he, in a quiet, steady tone-a tone which,
if she had known much of the Rayfords, would
have warned her that nothing moderately was
coming.
"Yes, I mean it," asnwered she, coldly-
and then, breaking down into pathos, "Aiston,
dear Alston, it is for your sake more than mine.
Believe me, it is best!"
He smiled slightly, and bent his head down
until his face was on a level with, her own.

THE PAINS

LTR'S DREAM.        .                 121
"Tell me one thing, Marion," he said. "Do
you love me?"
"You know that I do," she answered,
simply.
"Then throw these miserable scruples to
the winds, and give yourself to me. See!
All that you will need to do is to step into
this boat. I have a license in my pocket; six
miles below here a magistrate lives. Before
the sun goes down, you can be my wife-so
that all the fathers in the world cannot part
us again."
"You might spare me this," she said, half.
indignantly, half-reproachfully. "if you ar-
gued forever, Alston, you could not make me
do such a thing."
"Then I must try something besides argu-
ment," said he, coolly. "Forgive me, Marion;
but you have only your own own obstinacy to
blame; and I have sworn that I will never
give you up!"
Something in his voice, something in his
eyes, made a sudden fear rush over Marion.
She remembered" the loneliness of the spot,
and the desperation ever synonymous with the
Rayford name. What was coming she hardly
knew, but she drew back with an instinct of
alarm.
"I do not understand you," she said.
"What do you mean?"
"Imean this," said Rayford, quietly, " that
if you will not go with me I shall be forced to
take you!"
"To take mc! Are you mad?"
"No; 1 am only determined not to be
played with in this way. It depended upon
yourself whether or not you would promise
to s~arry me. You did promise, and now it
depends upon me whether or not you fulfil it."
He spoke in a tone of ordinary composure;
but, by a single step, he cut oft' all chance of
escape by placing himself in her homeward
path.
One glance at his face showed her how
fully he meant every word he had uttered;
how worse* than useless any thing like argu-
ment or entreaty would be; and all the love
she had ever felt for him sunk down and died
in that instant. . She forgot, the peril of her
position-she only remembered the burning
sen$e of outrage that rushed over her.
"You are a coward!" she said, bitterly.
"It is only a coward who would endeavor to
intimidate a woman by threats, or force her
by compulsion, to become his wife. And you


THE FAINTER'S DREAM.

need not think that you will force me. I would
throw myself into the river there before I
would marry you after this. I see now that
my father was right-right to withhold his
consent-right to say that I should never
marry you! I thought you were a gentle-
man. He knew t~ll'the time that you were a
rascal! "'
Rayford answered not a' word; perhaps
because he could not'trust himself to do so;
hut his lips'set themselvcs'like steel, and into
his eyes there came a gleam which made even
Marioi~'s brave heart sink within her. He
bent down-still without a word-and lifted
her in his arms. She struggled violently; but
her strength was like a child's compared to
his, and he bore her into the boat. Then he
held her back with one arm, while he loosened
the little craft from its anchorage, and pushed
out into the stream. When several yards lay
between them and the bank, he turned and
looked at her, with a flash of triumph on his
face.
"You may resign yourself, Marion," he
said. "You will not go back there until you
go as my wife."
"We will see about that," she answered,
as haughtily and as steadily as if she had not
been shaken by a perfect storm of emotion.
Then she gathered her dress about her-made
one spring-and was in the river.
YL
INSTANTLY Rayford followed, and the whirl-
ing splash of eddying water rendered him
quite unconscious that there was a spectator
of the drama-that a man,' who was seated on
a bluff overhanging the stream, had ivitnessed
the whole scene, and that he now manifested
* his presence by springing into' the river al-
most -as soon as Marion herself had' touched
its i~fhce. '
Owing to his haste and agitation, Rayford
plunged into the water just where he was
standing,' Which handedd to be at the end of
the bbat-'opposite' that from which 'Marion
madehj~ecklessi leap; and, as the boat ian- I
medintely swung round and came between
them,~he' had some difficulty in reaching her.
Mean*hlte she sunk, and, in rising, was swept
by the current' gently down-stream, straight
into the aims of the stranger, who was mak-
ing with quick, sure strokes towa'rd~her. She
thought that he was Rayford; but there is
nothing like a cold bath for curing heroics;

and, with this terrible rush of water in her
ears, this frightful sense of helpless danger,
she was glad to be rescued-even by him.
So she made no resistance when he sup-
ported her with one arm, while, with the other,
he struck out rapidly for the boat, which, in
the course of floating lazily down-stream, was
now quite near them.
Having reached it, he laid her in' the bot-
torn of it, and then climbed in hirnself After
accomplishing this, he left her unattended for
a moment, while he took up an oar, and, with
one vigorous stroke, put two or three yards
between themselves and Rayford, who was
swimming toward them. The latter, seeing this,
raised himself in the water, and gave an angry
shout.
"Stop!" he cried. "What arc you about?
Don't you see that I am trying to reach the
boat?"
The other raised his hand, and pointed to
the shore.
"You had better try to reach that," he
said, coolly. "You are not coming in here.
Keep back! By the Heaven above us, if you
even so much as lay your hand on the boat, I
will break this oar over your head!"
It was not necessary to look in his face to
see that he meant what he said; and, the oar
uplifted by that stalwart arm, was such a far
from pleasant sight, that AlstonRayford had
no alternative but to do as he was bidden, and
keep back. He was fairly divided between as-
tonishment and indignation-as his next words
showed.
"You insolent rascal!" he cried; "do
you know that you are in my boat; and what
the devil do you mean by such conduct?"
"I mean that if I allowed you to enter
here, it would only be for the satisfaction of
pitching you out again, and letting you feel
that no maii in my presence insults a woman
with impunity," was the stern reply. "Take
yourself to the shore as best you can, and re-
member that if you are seen or heard of again
about here, it will be the worse for you."
"I will be seen and heard of long enough
to make you answer for this, you infernal
scoundrel !" Mr. Rayford's language did not
improve as 'his excitement* increased;' and
there ~vas a tinge of the ludicrous in his posi-
tion which added tenfold to his rage. "Who
are you, and what right have you to interfere
in a matter which does not concern you?"
"It makes no difference to you who I am,"

122

*1.
U)
0
4)
"5
I.,
a)
"5
0


/

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.                 123

the other answered. "As for my right, it is
that of any honest man to defend a woman
against a villain. Now go; I shall waste no
more words on you."
He rowed away as he spoke; and Rayford,
seeing that he was indeed hopelessly left be-
hind, sent one last shot after him:
"You shall answer for this; remember
that!"
The other raised his hand in ironical salute.
"I shall be very happy to answer-with a
horsewhip," he replied.
Having made this rejoinder, he turned and
glanced at Marion. To his surprise and relief
she was sitting up, and, although she might
have passed for a mermaid in the item of
drenching, she did not look at all the worse
for it in the way of physical well-being. She
was not even pale, as people are apt to be af-
ter a drowning escapade, but, on the contrary,
a tide of color swept over her face the moment
those bright-blue eyes fell on it. Before she
could speak, she held out her hand.
"You have done me an inestimable ser-
vice, Mr. Lorimer," she said. "The only re-
turn I can make is-to beg your pardon."
"I am very glad-more than glad-that I
was near," said Lorimer, earnestly. "As I
don't want you to think me an eavesdropper, I
will explain in a moment how it chanced.
But, first, you must take a restorative." He
drew a small flask from his pocket, and gave
it to her. "I don't suppose that you like
French brandy," he went on, "but there is
no help for it; you must drink this, or take a
cold."
"Of eQurse, then, I will drink this," said
Marion, with unusual meekness. And she
drank it accordingly - in homo~opathic
amount.
Vance laughed, and shrugged his shoul-
ders when the flask was returned, apparently
containing the same quantity as when he had
given it to her. But he did not urge the mat.
ter any further; he only swept the boat
round a$ began rowing vigorously against
the stream. After a little, he asked Marion
if she knew how to use an oar. She answered
in the affirmative, and he pointed to one that
lay in the bottom of the boat.
"Then you had better take that," he said.
"We ought to reach Mr. Rivers's as soon as
possible."
"What!" (She cbuld not help a slight
start.) "Are we going there?"

"Of course. Where else should we go?
It cannot be far off either. Do you know how
far?"
"About a mile, I suppose-by the stream,
that is; not half so far by land."
"We will reach there soon, then; and, if
you can row, the exercise will keep you from
taking cold."
"1 can try," she said. And she did try.
She was not very skilful, however; and it is~
doubtful whether her unaided exertions would
have brought them very speedily to their
bourn; but Lorimer was a first-class oarsman,
and his swift, steady strokes sent the little
boat fairly dancing over the water. They swept
by the Old Ferry in gallant style, and both of
them looked instinctively to see if Rayford
was there. But he had vanished. In his stead,
a slight, graceful figure was seated on a fallen
tree, sketching, and whistling pensively; and
Lorimer laughed as Marion exclaimed, "Mr.
Travers 1"
"Shall we take him in?" asked Vance.
And t'hen he answered himself, with prompti-
tude: "No. I have a good deal to say to
you, and he can easily walk.-Frank, old fel-
low, meet us at Philippi," he shouted; and
Travers started, looked up, and immediately
became so transfixed with astonishment that
they shot by and out of sight before he was
able to say a word.
"Now," said Vance, "I have my explana-
tion to make, and it must be done quickly.
First, however, Miss Rivers, I must ask a ques-
tion, and beg a candid answer. Will you tell
me if you are still incredulous of my dream?"
Marion started, and blushed scarlet. But,
nevertheless, she lifted her eyes and answered
at once:
"I thought you understood what I meani
when I begged your pardon, Mr. Lorimer. It
was for my incredulity, as well as for my rude-
ness, that I did so. Did you witness the whole
of the scene?"
"Yes, the whole of it"
"Then you can, perhaps, believe that I
thought of you and your picture at the very
moment when that-that man laid hold of me.
At the very moment when your scene was
realized, the scene itself rose up as unexpect-
edly and vividly as if it had been held before
my eyes. I saw it as clearly as I see you this
moment; and I felt-ah 1 you cannot even
imagine what I felt."
"I know what I felt myself," he said,

- 1'

I

/

123


124            THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

quickly. " I ought to explain at once that I
was sitting just above you on that bluff which
is covered with such luxuriant foliage. Frank
and I have been over into Tennessee since we
left your uncle's house three weeks ago, and
we meant to go round through South Carolina
on our way home. But-well, we could not
do it. I don't know what made him anxious
to return this way; but I am perfectly sure
that it was the fascination of the picture-the
'same fascination which has made me dream
of it every night since we left here--that
brought me back, whether I would or no. We
did not mean to call at your uncle's; but still
we found ourselves to-day wandering almost
within sight of the house. Suddenly, in the
course of our rambles, we came upon this
nook on the river. I cannot tell you what a
shock it gave me, for I recognized at once the
scene of my dream!"
" That is why it has seemed so strangely
familiar to me," said Marion. " It was like
something I had seen, and yet, until this after-
noon, I could not tell what it was. 0 Mr.
Lorimer, how unaccountable - how terrible
it is !" -
"I climbed up to that bluff;" Lorimer
went on; " and after a while Frank wandered
away and left me. I had been there some
time, and, in the drowsy afternoon heat, I went
to sleep. I was waked by your voice, and
the first words told me what kind of a discus-
-sion was going on. I looked down, and I saw
the boat and the man!/ After that, I don't
think I could have stirred or made a sound
if my life had depended on it. I hope you
will forgive me for listening to much that no
third person should have heard ; and I hope
you will also believe me when I tell you that
there was some strong influence at work to
make me do so. I could not shake off a power
that seemed to hold me nerveless. The very
scene, the very figures of my dream, were
before me. I felt sure of what was coming,
and, as you know, it did come."
" Yes," she said, under her breath.
" If you had waited only one second, you
would have been spared a cold bath, for I
was all ready to swim after the boat, and I
would have gained it. Even as it was, I think
our plunges were simultaneous; and I still
feel as if I had been defrauded of a just en-
joyment, since I did not take that scoundrel
by the neck and pitch him headlong into the
water."

"I think you punished him enough," said
she, coloring deeply and painfully. " To such
a man there is no punishment like failure.
And, if you add ridicule, I am sure you make
something which will prove almost too bitter
for his endurance."
"At least, he will not be apt to trouble
you again."
"No; for he only troubled mc through my
own headstrong folly ; and he will never have
that aid again. But when I think of all I
owe to you, Mr. Lorimer, and of all that I said
to you-"
"Nay," said Lorimer, interrupting her
with a smile, " we will not think of that at all,
My story was certainly strange enough to ex-
cuse incredulity. I myself can offer no ex-
planation of it, unless "-here his voice sunk
-" I was chosen in this way that I might
have the happiness of serving you."
" Then I never can be grateful enough
that you were chosen," said she, looking up,
with a warm light in her eyes. "1 am sure--
But here we are at the lawn, and yonder is
Uncle George ! What can we possibly say to
him?" .
"I shall say that you were imprudent
enough to fa31 into the river, and that I was
fortunate enough to pass by and pick you
up," said Lorimer, laughing. " Trust to me,
and keep your countenance.-My dear sir, I
am'delighted to see you again.-Now, Miss
Rivers, you had better go to the house and
change your dress."
"Good Heavens, Marion! what have you'
been doing ?" cried her uncle, with astonish-
nment.-" Mr. Lorimer, 1 am truly delighted to
see you again ; but why, bless my soul! you
are wet, too !"
" Mr. Lorimer will tell you the whole, story,
uncle. It is too long for me," said Marion,
laughing. Then she waved her hand, and
darted away to the house.
It was a long story, certainly; but, never-
theless, it was all poured into Miss Forrest's
eager ears before the supper-bell rang, and
great was the wonderment which, it caused
that young lady. She worked herself into
such a passion of indignation against there de-
feated Rayford, and such a fever of excite-
ment about the victorious Lorimer, that she
quite cured her headache; and, when several
noisy shouts from the children informed her
that Travers had arrived, she even g(It up and
began to make a toilet. "It would be too

I

124

9

THE END.

THE PAINTER'S DREAM.

125

discourteous not to see them," she said. "Be-
sides, I am dying to talk it over with Mr.
Lorimer, and this is my only chance, for no
doubt they will leave to-morrow."
-She was mistaken, however. The two
young artists did not leave on the morrow.
"From some cause, the hospitable freedom of
Mr. Rivers's household threw quite a spell
over them, and they lingered, and still lin-
gered, for pleasant walks, and rides, and talks,
until the gold of September burned on the
chestnuts, and her royal color glowed in the
scarlet of the maples-until the mellow haze
of autumn ,rounded and softened the grand
mountain outlines, and the chill mountain
nights made them draw closely around spar-
kling fires; lingered, in fact, until Mr. Rivers,
hearing that Alston Rayford had sailed for
Europe, came for his daughter, and, to his
utter consternation, had another suitor thrown,
like a petard, at his head.
It was all the worse, since there was no
reasonable ground for refusal in this instance.
There was no better blood between the Poto-
mac and the Rio Grande than that which
flowed infVance Lorimer's veins; and, although
a practical man like Mr. Rivera looked rather
askance at "a painter," still he was also a
sensible man, and he saw stuff in the young

artist which promised well for future effort
and future distinction. So, with some reluc-
tance, he gave his consent, declaring, as he did
so, that if a woman were shut up in an under-
ground dungeon, or condemned to roost in
the top of a pine-tree, she would find ways
and means to compass a love-affair.
It had long been an agreement between
Marion and Nellie that whichever was married
first should claim the services of the other as
bridesmaid. But circumstances occurred to
prevent the fulfilment of this engagement,
and, instead of wearing the orange-wreath by
turns, they wore it on the same day. In other
words, there was a double wedding ; and
people say yet that there never were two
prettier brides than Mrs. Lorimer 'and Mrs.
Travers.
Vance did not fulfil his threat of cutting
up the Dream Picture. It hangs in his private
room, where strangers'never see it; but some-
times it is shown to an intimate friend, and
the 'story of it is told. At such times Vance
always concludes by assuring them of the ex-
act truth of every particular, and declaring
(in which we can most of us agree with him)
that "there are more things in heaven and
earth than are dreamed of in our philoso-
phy."


POWELL VARDRAY'S LIFE.

At last the weary term was over, and the
welcome two-months' vacation came-came to
the long class-rooms, outside the windows of
which heavy tropical foliage drooped, and into
which fragrant tropical breezes swept, even as
it came -to other class-rooms under paler skies.
where lighter foliage drooped, and fresher
breezes played, far away in the fair temperate
zone. Some smiling, some sighing, yet all
glad to go, the pupils took their departure.
Most of the teachers followed their example as
speedily as possible, and, after a day or two
of bustle and confusion, the great pensionnat
which was usually such a busy hive of life,
sank into strange silence, and the half-dozen
teachers and pupils remaining, moved about
the wide* dormitories, the long galleries, and
vacant "classes'" like unreal shadows of what
had been. In all the British West Indies there
was no school so popular as this which had
been established in Kingston, by an enter-
prising Frenchwoman, and the pupils thus
stranded on its shore, were from the neighbor-
ing islands, and either meant to spend the, va-
cation in the school, or else were awaiting the
first opportunity to go home. The teachers
were all foreign. There was a middle-aged
German with a painfully-long neck, and pain-
fully short-sighted eyes, whp taught music,
wore spectacles, ate sour-kraut, and played
like Liszt. There was a vivacious French.
woman, a cousin of the principal, with the sal-
lowest shin and blackest eyes in all Jamaica,
with a love of toilets next to insanity, and a
talent for arranging them next to naaculous,
And, finally, there was a young American from
the State of Georgia, a stately, handsome girl
who had been in the school only one session,
who talked very little about herself, but who
bore the stamp of gentle blood and gentle

~HERE are few people who have attained
any moderate length of years, and pos-
sess in any moderate degree the higher sensi-
bilities and deeper passions, which are by no
means the common heritage of the common
race, who do not feel and will not acknowledge
that existence is far from being synonymous
with life. The former state begins at birth
and ends at death, extending over many a
level of stagnant days, including all the slug-
gish periods of inaction, and all the weary in-
tervals of dead calm, as well as the stirring
breezes and the blinding storms that come to
the mental as to the physical world. The lat-
ter is thronged with action, filled to the brim
with keen emotions, and whetted with eager
strife, burning with passion, abounding in vi'-
tality, and freighted with issues that in result,
at least, extend .beyond the earth we tread.
Sometimes these two states of being go hand
in hand through man's pilgrimage. But this '
is rare. Few people live always ; the vast
majority live but seldom; and there are many
who, from birth to death, never live at all'
The woman whose name stands at the head
of this story, belonged to the second class.
Once, for a brief space, her pulse changed
from the dull, even beat of existence, to the
full, quick throb of life ; onceonly-
."All thoughts, ali passions, all delights,
Whatever stirs this mortal frame," ,
waked within her, and, sweeping into one
great current, roused her soul to the very cen-
tre, stirring it, filling it, teaching it the lesson
which is old as time, yet which every new-bo~m
child of Time must leais for itself-,-the lesson
that delight is twin-born with pain, and that
to live is to suffer.


Ii

128                       POWELL Y~
rearing, and whose name was Powell Var
dray.
It was near sunset on the third day aftei
the school had formally closed, that the latte,
was alone' in one of the large dormitories
through which at this hour the first welcome
breath of the land-breeze began to sweep,
She had spent the long, sultry afternoon thert
'-the afternoon which in the tropics has more
than the stillness of our midnight-and now
that various sounds proved that the universal
trance of sie8ta was at last broken, she left
unfinished a letter which she had been writing,
and went to ~ne of the windows. As she
leaned out, the day-god sank into the distant
* occa; and almost immediately the city below
her waked into life. Windows that had been
barred against the fierce rays of a vertical sun,
opened wide 'at the first stirring of the breeze
among the plumy leaves without; streets that
had been deserted by all save a few lounging
negroes and busy laborers began to be filled
with carriages and pedestrians; sounds of
passing feet, hum of voices, laughter and
strains of distant song, floated up to the young
foreigner; and, from the shade that came over
her face, it seemed as if these things had more
power to sadden than to cheer. Even the
peneionnst at last roused in some degree. She
heard the chatter of voices as the French
teacher and two or three girls asSembled on
the flat roof over her head; and from below
there came the notes of a piano which resolved
~into the strange, wild beauty of "Walpurgis
Night" as the German teacher found that she
had the grand salon all to herself. The royal
harmonies were rising fuller and fuller on the
dying day, when suddenly there came a clatter
of horses' hoofs down the quiet street, a flush
that even the twilight could not hide on Powell
Vardray's face; and a gallant-looking rider
who swept by at a sharp canter. In passing
the school, he reined in his horse a little, and
looked eagerly upward. The eyes above were
looking dQwn--frank, tender eyes that had no
"cunning to be strange" in their soft depths-.
and the two glances crossed like swords. It
was only momentary. The cavalier smiled,
uncovered his head, bent low, and then was
gone. The gb-I drew back with the flush al.
ready faded from her cheek; and when, a mo-
ment l~ter, her name was called by a servant
near b~', sh~ turned and spoke in the quiet,
harmonious voice known so well in the school.
"'Here I am, Rose. What is it?,'

ARDRAY'S LIFE.

"A note for you, ma'am," said the servant,
presenting, as she spoke, a dainty white mis-
sive as if it had been a bayonet. "The mes-
senger is waiting, ma'am," she added, after a
minute, as the young teacher sat with the en-
velope unopened in her hand, her brow slightly
bent, and a faint reflection of the flush that
was gone rising in her cheek.
"Yes--I know," she said, with a start.
Then she broke the seal, drew forth the en-
closure, leaned forward, and, by the last light
of day, read these lines:
"Dn&amp;n Miss VAnruaAv: We leave Kings.
ton to-morrow for our residence in the hill.
country. Knowing how unpleasant the city is
at this time of year, and how lonely you must
be in the school, we shall be delighted if you
will accompany us and spend your vacation
there. Alicia, in particular, is very anxious
that you should do so; and I hope sincerely
that you will not disappoint her by a refusal.
If you say yes, I will call for you at nine
o'clock to-morrow morning.
"Yours truly,       E. M. Muaa&amp;v."
Miss Vardray read this brief epistle twice
over; then she knitted her brows again, and
gave a moment to reflection; then she smiled
slightly, and finally she looked up and spoke.
"You may go, Rose, and I will bring' the
answer down myself. Be sure and make the
messenger wait for it, though. Where is
madame?~~
"In her own room, ma'am. She is going
out, I think, for she was dressing when I came
up."
"Going out! Then I must see her at
once."
With the note in her hand, she left the
dormitory, ran down a flight of stairs to the
second floor, followed a corridor, and came to
that part of the building where the private
apartments of Madame Girod, the principal,
were situated. Here she knocked, and was at
once admitted to the chamber where this au-
gust personage - a handsome and decidedly
sallow specimen of the 1'arisienne-was en-
gaged in the mysteries of the toilet. She gave
a cordial greeting to the young girl, and, when
the nature of her errand was explained, she
smiled benign consent.
"There are no better people in Jamaica
than the Murrays," said she, approvingly.
"They are at the head of fashion, and live in

POWELL VARDRAY'S TAPE.

129

most elegant style. Of course, c7i~'-e arnie, you
must go. We shall miss you immeasurably,
and I am sure I shall die of that stupid Ma-
dame Schaffer, and' that chatterbox of a Vie-
tome, but still I dare not be so selfish as to
keep you. Be sure and present my affection-
ate remembrances to Alicia-she was always
my favorite pupil, you know. Bon soir, ma
belle. Go and enjoy yourself."
Dismissed in this hasty and. benedictory
fashion, Miss Vardray went to her room, and
wrote an affirmative reply to Mrs. Murray's in-
vitation. After this reply was sent, and while
a loud bell was summoning her to the light
evening meal, she stopped and asked herself
if she had done wisely. These Murrays
chanced to be friends of her family, and when
she came to Jamaica to enter as teacher the
school where Alicia Murray was a pupil, they
had had the grace to pay her some faint show
of social attention. She had been invited to
several of their entertainments, and at one of
these had the good or bad fortune to ~aeet a
certain Captain Romeyne, of' the governor's
staff who, being much attracted by her beau-
ty, had devoted himself to her with more
einps-essement than was at all expedient. After
that she had never received another invitation
to the Murray house. Alicia, however, who
was a frank school-girl not yet broken into
the traces of social life, and very fond of her
teacher, carelessly betrayed the secret of this
sudden reserve. Despite their wealth and
fashion, the Murrays, it seemed, had ~not been
very fortunate in matrimonial disposal of their
daughters-partly owing to the fact that in
the West Indies, as in a good many other
places, eligible suitors are scarce, and young
ladies are plenty. The eldest daughter had
married a planter of Trinidad, who, in five
years, gambled away his fortune, drank him-
self to death, and returned his wife on her
father's hands a penniless widOw. The second
daughter was, in a moderate way, a beauty,
and flew therefore at higher game than any
the islands in themselves could furnish. Learn.
ing that Captain Romeyne might, by the death
of a sickly elderbrother, become the heir of one
of the largest fortunes and oldest titles 'among
the baronetcies of Great Britain, the Murray
family in general, and Miss Ellinor Murray in
particular, had made hin the object of much
attention and the centre of many hopes. There
had been no vulgar matrimonial scheming-.
they were both too wise and too well-bred for

I that-but there had been a good de~lof finesse
and really creditable intrigue which proved
its ability by its success. Sfep by step the
young man was led on until there is little
doubt but that the object in view might readily
have been compassed, if the fair face and dark
eyes of Powell Vardray had not crossed his
path, and dashed at once into insignificance
the commonplace beauty he had admired be-
fore. And as Powell Vardmay stood before
her mirror now, looking at this face, and gaz-
ing into the depths of those eyes, she asked
herself what this invitation meant. Had they
given up the pursuit as hopeless, and were
they willing that she should taste one, short
draught of happiness? Young as she was,
the girl was worldly wise enough to return a
negative to this question. Did it mean some
plan to draw her out of his way, or to place
her before him in some unfavorable light?
Again she bent her brows, and again the ques-
tion was too deep for her. At last she shook
her head. "I cannot tell," she said alond;
"but wkntever it be, I am ready to face It. I
am no child, to fall into an open trap. I think
my wit is as quick as theirs; 'and if strife
must come, it shall be strife d l'outrance. Let
them mean what they will, this is my only
road to happiness, and I shall take it. They
cannot harm him, and for me-I am not rich
enough in any gift of earth to fear for myself.
The destitute can afford to be brave. I will
go."
Years afterward Powell Vardray thought
of these reckless words, and looked back on
this resolve as the turning-point of her life.
Whether she ever regretted itj was known
only to herself and God; but it is hardly
probable that she ever did-it is more than
probable that she held the purchase of.one
brief taste of life none too dearly made even
at the price she was forced to p~ty for it.
Punctually at nine o'clock the next morn-
ing, a carriage, well known in Kingston, drove
up to Madame Girod's door~ a brown-eyed girl
sprang out, rushed past the fortress sans cere-
rnorzie, fled up-stairs with the careless ease of
one who treads familiar ground, and burst into
Miss Vardray's room like an electric flash.
"Alicia l--how you startled met" said the
teacher, with a laugh; and more than that
she could not say, for Alicia's arms were
around her, precluding speech, and almost
threatening suffocation.
"Oh, lam so glad you are going with usi"


180

POWELL VARDRAY'S LiFE.

cried the girl, eagerly, "and~ it was so good j has had enough of West-Indians, she says-
of mamma to ask you I I did not think she J and, indeed, I don't wonder. She is dread-
would-.on account of Ellinor, you know-but j fully aggravating, though. I wonder some-
she did, and all of her ow~i accord. That is, J times if she didn't aggravate poor Dering into
Isaid nothing to her; but I believe Maud told drinking and gambling himself to death."
her she ought to do it. I did not think Maud "I believe I am ready now," said Miss
was'such a friend of yours-did you?" Vardray, in reply to this observation. "If
"I had no idea of it," said Miss Vardray, you will come, Alicia, we will bid the teachers
smiling. "Don't choke me, Alicia; and pray and the girls good.by" Then, under her
let me 'tie my bonnet-strings. Is not your breath, "Oh, if I could but stay-if I could
mother in the carriage ~" but stay 1"
"Yes, certainly; but it don't matter about It was too late for this, however, so adiens
keeping mamma waiting; she is so good-na- were made, and in half an hour the Murray
tured She onlygets vexed when I say things carriage was rolling out of Kingston, bearing
about Ellinor'~ admirers-to tease Ellinor, you as its freight Mrs. Murray, her guest, and her
know. By-the-by, Miss Vardray, Captain Ro- two unmarried daughters-the third daughter,
meyne has gone~-did you know it?" Mrs. Dering, having preceded them with her
Gone! What a dark mist it was that came father.
without any warning over Powell's sight, and Any one who has ever been in the charm.
what a strange, sudden choking rose in her inghill-count-y of Jamaica will understand why
throat! She gasped for breath a moment, but it was that, in the course of the next few days,
so slightly that the careless girl beside her *Miss Vardray ceased to regret her change of
heard nothing, saw nothing-not even the quarters. In the burning heat of Kingston,
swift pallor that passed over her face. Then existence had been something nearly approach.
she spoke quite as usual: ing to a torment-in her new abode it was a
"No, I did not know it-how should I? delight. Every hundred feet of mountain-
But, if so, he must have gone very lately, Mi. elevation was equivalent to a degree of lati-
cia, for I saw him pass here yesterday after- tude; and, though the luxuriance of tropical
noon." vegetation crowned these lovely hills, the air
" That is very probable," said Alicia, coolly, that fanned them was fresh and pure as an
"for he only left this morning. Re dined at elixir of life. The sultry heat of the coast
our house yesterday evening, and bade us all was a thing incredible in the airy villa that
good-by. There was some friend of his here was perched on the mountain - side like an
in a yacht, and he is going to spend the next eagle's cyrie, while far below a wilderness of
three or foursnonths in cruising about with glowing landscape stretched to the sea, and
him among the islands. They left this morn- the roofs of Kingston, together with the mag-
ing. Ellinor was on. thetop of the house with nificent harbor of Port Royal, lay clearly visi-
an opera.glass, and she saw Captain Romeyne ble in the distance. The young Georgian had
go on board the yacht, and saw the yacht put been so closely confined since her arrival in
out tb sea. So. he is off and that is an end of Jama~ica that the prodigal loveliness of all
the matter, 1 am sorry for Ellinor, but I things wa~ to her a revelation. Child of the
really. believe I am still more sorry for Maud," Soutl~ as shQ was, her own South was like a
Silenced ht this, Miss Vardray went on faint, cold outline to the glowing beauty of
tying her. bonnet-strings, and asked no ques- these fairy regions where
tions. She never encouraged Alicia's family "Droops the heavy-blossomed bower, bangs the
revelations, but, on the contrary, was often heavy-fruited tree-
forced to repress them6 Inthis instance, how- Summer Isles of Eden lying In dark.purple spheres
ever, she said ~nothing, and the unreserved of sea."
young lady soon continued:                   Very swiftly the days flew by. There is
"You see, Ellinor was willing enough to not in the world a more delightful society than
become Mrs. Romeyne, but I don't think her that of the planters whose country-seats oc-
heart was terribly set on it. Now Maud's cupy these mountains, and the headquarters
was. Maud thought that, if Ellinor were once of all the gayety afloat was that very house in
well married in England, she could go there which Miss Vardray was a guest. Rides,
and secure a grand fortune for herself. She drives, excursions, parties, dinners, constant

I,

POWELL VARDUAT'S LIFE.

131-

visits from plantation to plantation, made u
the sum of daily life for these gay daughter
of the tropics; and into this she was drawl
almost without a protest. She had come t
be happy-she ended by being gay; and, oh
what a wide distance there is between th
two! After a while, she began to be grateful
to the Murrays, and to think that they ha
simply been glad to give her this pleasure~
without incurring any risk to themselves there
by. But her heart beat sorely whenever sin
thought of the man who had gone away with
out one word of farewell-gone just when h(
might have known that her brief period of
freedom had come. Still, she laughed, an~
sang, and danced, and did all things so charm
ingly, that she fascinated women as well a:
men, old as well as young, with whom she
came in contact. She made quite a furor:
during her short season of questionable en-
joyment. People forgot to patronize her with
the condescending patronage which was due
her social position. They even forgot this so-
cial position altogether, and, only recognizing
the native nobility stamped upon the woman,
the grace of person, and the gifts of mind
that made so fair a hold, grounded arms in a
salute more valuable because unconscious.
Suddenly, however, into the midst of this
there came a jar. Suddenly Powell waked to
the knowledge that all was not so smooth as
it appeared, and that, in truth, she was the
centre of a scheme, common enough in so.
ciety, yet, to some people, none the less re-
volting. on that account. Among her many
admirers was one whom a little encouragement
would soon have transferred into a serious
suitor, and this encouragement was given not
by herseig but by Mrs. During. The person
in question was a young planter of moderately
good birth, moderately good fortune, and mod-
erately good appearance, who had once been
in Ellinor Murray's train, but whose preten-
sions were not considered of sufficient im-
portance to warrant a formal dismissal, and
who was now handed over to the young teach-
ci- with an understanding on all sides that it
was an admirable thing for her, and a settle-
ment in life she would do well to accept. That
the girl herself looked at the matter from a
different point of view, may have been foolish,
but, at least, was not remarkable. In many
respects, life had been hard lines to her; but
it had never taught her-it never did teach
her-that lesson of the world which most

p women learn in their cradles, and the alpha
s and omega of which is-s husband. Faults,
a and to spare, she had; but all of them put to-
~ gather did not suffice to make up the sum of
L, that one virtue, entitled reasonable prudence,
a which, in matters of this kind, the world is
.1 never weary of commending. Therefore, when
I Mrs. During signified that a word would be
enough to place Mr. Covington at her feet, it
- would be hard to say whether this eleven lady
was most astonished or mortified by the cour-
teous but decided repulse which she received.
It was so unexpected that she could scarcely
contain her chagrin within moderate bounds,
I She had laid her plans so well, she had brought
- them by esreful degrees to such a successful
issue, that now to be foiled like this at the
very last was hard-almost too hard to bear.
*    "She is either a deeper schemer or a greater
fool than I possibly imagined," said this charm-
ing lady to her mother. ".1 knew that Arthur
Romeyne had been amusing himself with her
to a shameful extent, and, of course, I knew
also that she was flattering herself with the
hope of marrying him; but I never really be.
lived that she would carry her game to the
length of refusing Covington. And I assured
him, too, that his success was certain. What
can I say to him now?"
"Oh, Covington is not a person of any im~
portance," said Mrs. Murray, in a tone of quiet
contempt that would have annihilated its ob-
ject, if he could have heard it. "You know
you can say any thing to him, and dispose of
him in any way. The serious matter is, that
this girl's refusal looks very badly-looks as
if she had some assured ground of hope-to
believe-about Captain Romeyne, you know."
"It looks as if she were either scheming
very deeply, or hoping very absurdly,'~ said
Mrs. Dering. "That is what I told you a mo-
ment ago. But, as for Captain Romeyne, it
proves nothing. Of course, he has been fool-
ish; but I have no idea that he has been, or
intends to be, any thing mere ~ and' it takes
little or nothing to set an adventuress of this
kind to castle-building~"
"We must get rid of her, though, Maud.,
It was against my wishes that she was invited;
but you were so sure that she could be dig-.
posed of in this way. Now, you see how right.
I was; and Captain Romeyne may come back
any day-and find her here."
"I see that I have failed in my plan," said
Mrs. During, coolly; "but~ at least, I have:


RDRAYI'S LIFE-.

132                       POWELL VA
done no harm. Matters~ only remain as they
were before-.nq better, certainly; but no
worse, either."
"I don't see how you can say that, when
the girl is still here. I don't like it, Maud. I
honestly confess that it makes me uneasy, and
I don't like it."
"I don't like it, either, mamma; but we
'must find some decent excuse for seeding her
away. I will ddve into Kingston to-morrow,
and ~ee Madame Girod. No doubt, she can be
induced to send a message that will recall her.
There can be no danger in her remaining for a
day or two longer, you know."
In the course of the next twelve hours,
Mrs. During had cause to alter this opinion,
and to lay up, for future consideration, the im-
portant lesson that a policy of procrastination
is always a policy of loss. That evening a
large party dined at Flamstead-..the name of
the Murray scat-and, after dinner~ Powell
was called to the piano. She sang more than
ordinarily well, for she had a fresh, fiexile
voice, of excellent training and great expres-
sion; so, after a whi1e~ by special request, she
gave the "Adelaide" of Beethoven. Although
she never sang it afterward, the tender, pas..
sionful strain seemed sometimes breathed into
her ear by unseen lips, an4 they always brought
back, like a vivid picture, the memory of
that scene-the brilliant room with its gayly-
dressed groups, the broad windows open to
the fragrant tropical night, and the luminous
tropical heavens, the faces at her side, and the
very scent of the flowers drooping in her hair.
Suddenly, the golden tide of melody wavered
and almost stopped; suddenly, a sharp dis-
cord came into the sweet tone-idyl, and sud-
denly, also, a wave of color swept over the
singer's face, as a tall, handsome man entered
the room, and, despite the "Adelaide," was
greeted by a chorus of welcome. ~
"Why, Captain Romeyne, is this you?"
"What an unexpected pleasure!"
"My dear fellow, where did you drop
from?"
"Captain Bomeyne, this is charming-and
all the more charming because such a sur-
prise. We thought you far enough away."
It was Mrs. During who came forward with
an impulsive rush, and said this. It was with
her that 4laptain Ilomeyne first shook hands,
and to her made an explanation of his un-
expected appearance. Powell did not hear
him; but she learned afterward that, having

I

I

POWELL VARDRAY'S LIFE.

chanced upon some nautical misfortune, the
yacht had been obliged to put back into
Kingston for repairs, and ~that, without giving
warning of his intention, he had ridden out to
Flamatead, and so surprised them.
"Mamma will be delighted," said Mrs.
During, taking his arm. "She was talking of
you only to-day. Come and let me give her a
pleasant surprise. As for Ellinor-but then I
must not tell tales out of, school, and her first
look will be apt to assure you whether or not
she is glad to see you. We have quite a
charming party here, and we mean to make
you prisoner, now that you are in our hands.
-." Mr. Latimer, do you know where my sister
is ?-Why, Mr. Covington, I am surprised that
you are not at your usual devotions!"
Mr. Covington was quick enough to follow
her glance, and move at once toward Miss
Vardray. Observing the direction of his steps,
Captain Romeyne first looked surprised, and
then laughed.
"So Covington has found a new shrine!"
said helightly. "I hope Miss Murray did
not prove very cruel?"
"Oh I it is merely a case of mutual ac-
commodation," answered Mrs. During, with a
shrug. "Ellinor really likes the poor fellow,
auti, having the kindest heart in the world,
she was very glad to dispose of him by hand.
ing him over to this girl-one of Alicia's
teachers, whom mamma invited here to please
the child, and who, of course, is delighted with
such an establishment as Mr. Covington offers
her."
Captain Romeyne's eyes-and very keen
ones they were-followed Mr. Covington, and
rested for a moment on Powell, over whom
the gentleman was just then bending.
"She does not look delighted," said he, as
he saw the girl turn almost haughtily from
some speech of her admirer's.
"Women's looks are very deceptive," an-
swered Mrs. During, with a glance of feigned
indifference and real vexation in that direc-
tion. "Perhaps she thinks she can play with
her fish, having safely landed him. Of course,
the subject cannot interest you; but it is an
understood thing that they are engaged. Here
is mamma now.-Mamma, look what a charm.
lag surprise I have brought you-Captain Re-
meyne in person!"
How wearily, after this, the hours went by
to Powell! He was there in the room with
her; but oceans and mountains might have

133

intervened, for nll the satisfaction that his
presence gave. He was monopolized by the
Murrays; she was guarded zealously by Mr.
Covington; and even glances were forbidden,
since glances, unfortunately, are as intelligible
as words even to bystanders. It was life that
throbbed in the girl's feverish pulses-but
such bitter life that just then she would will-
ingly have taken instead the dead calm and
stagnant quiet that, unstirred by joy, is also
untroubled by pain. Unfortunately, however~
the choice between these two states is never
granted us. Without intermission, the strain
went on, until at last the effort to talk easily
and laugh gayly became more than she could
bear. Then she seized a favorable opportuni-
ty-a moment when no one was observing
her-and, stepping through an open window,
slipped away into the friendly shadow of the
night. Once outside, she did not linger in
the neighborhood of the drawing.room, but
took her way to the farther extremity of the
grounds, where an abrupt height overlooked
the sleeping ocean-a lonely spot, where the
only sound which broke the silence was a
monotone of surf on the beach far below.
There she knelt down, and laid her cheek on
the cold stone of a balustrade that guarded
the dangerous descent. The holy and inbifa-
ble .peace of Nature soothed her as nothing
else could have done. The great mother
seemed stretching soft arms of love around
her, and sending sweet messages, in every
breath of odorous air and every echo of the
waves below. By degrees, a sort of lethargy
crept over her. How long it lasted, she had
no means of knowing. It was broken, at last,
by a step on the gravel walk, a presence at
her side, and a voice she knew only too well,
Raying:
"How devout you look! Have you stolen
away here to say your prayers  "'
She glanced up without changing her atti-
tude, looking rarely lovely in the silver star.
light.
"I came away for quiet," she said. "Is
that very strange 1' No; I have not been say-
ing anyprayers-unless they were to the ocean."
"Anddidithearyou?"
"Yes, 'in a degree. I h~ve been very
much at rest for a time."
"So you came here for rest?"
"I thought I told you that a moment ago.
Quiet and rest are ~ynonymous terms-are
they not?"

"Hardly, I think. There is~a difference
between them; but-well, I did not follow
you to split hairs over verbal distinctions.
Look at me again, please. I want to see
your eyes, while I ask you a question. There
-that is it. Steady now! don't start if I am
outrageously impertinent. Tell me-are you
engaged to Covington?"
He spoke quickly, almost sharply-spoke
as if suspense irked him, and yet a~ if he
feared to end it-but the astonishment that
sprang at once into her eyes answered him
without any need of words. He first smiled,
then laughed, at her look of blank amaze-
ment.
"I am satisfied," he said; "don't trouble
yourself to speak; your face has done that
for you. I was a fool to believe it for a mo-
ment."
"You believed that I was engaged to Mr.
Covington? Alit I can guess-Mrs. Dering
told you so."
"And if she did?"
"Then she might have told you, also, that
it is no fault of hers I am not, that she did
her utmost to draw me into an engagement,
and that it was plainly for this purpose that I
was invited here."
Rorneyne started slightly, then recovered
himself and laughed again.
"Was it, indeed? Well, it matters very
little about the purpose. The result is that
we are once more face to face, as I almost
feared we never should be again. This is
enough for me. Powell, is it not enough for
you also?"
His gay, careless tones softened over the
last words, and the girl beside him quivered
from head to foot. She knew that the crown-
ing issue of her life had come; yet through
the midst of her sudden joy there pulsated
one sharp throb of pain. She could not seize
or analyze it, for in a second it was gone; but
she remembered it afterward, and wondered
if it had been a premonition. She did not
speak, though Romeyne waited for her answer,
and in That moment the very voices of the
night seemed hushed, as if listeniiig for her
rcply-only far below were beard the soft ins-
tling of the stately palms -and the murmur of
the tide upon the beach. Then the young
man knelt down beside her, and bent his face
to a level with her own,
"Powell," he said, "have I vexed you?
Will you not even speak to me? It is true

I


134                POWELL VARDIIAY'S LIFE.                                                POWELL VA

that we have known each other a very short to her than even a prospective baronet. She
time; but ~ hardly think words are needed looked at the royal creature, who was champ-
between us. We know all-we know that we ing her bit and tossing herhead with such fiery
love each other. Why, then, should we stand impatience, and, after counting the chances
apart, when life is so short and every minute for and against her safety of life and limb, dc-
is so precious? I came to this place only be- dined to run the risk. Then Romeyne turned
cause I heard that you were here, and because to Powell, who was standing near.
I thought that at last-"                   "Are you afraid to ride her, Miss Var-
He stopped, caught his breath sharply, dray?" he asked.
and lisTtened. The silence of the night had The girl looked up with a gleam of rapture
been all around them a moment before ;' but m her eyes that answered him before her lips
now the soft breeze was laden with other said:
sounds -with footsteps, with voices, with "No."
laughter that jarred on the solemn quiet of "Will you ride her, then?"
- Nature. Romeyne muttered one impatient "Yes, gladly."
exclamation, set his teeth, and then turned.  She had not meant to be so frank, but inn-
"I must go," he said, hurriedly, "they ture is sometimes stronger than conventional-
will find me here, if 1 don't. Remember this- ity, and the smile that came over his face was
we belong to each other, and before this time the reward of her candor. In five minutes
to-morrow night your own lips shall tell me she was mounted, and in another five the
so. Now-good-night!" party was in motion. They started without
He caught her hands, kissed them passion- any definite point of destination, and so it
ately, and, before she could utter a word, was was not strange that the different couples
gone. A minute later, she beard him meet were soon widely scattered, having taken
the advancing party, heard their exclamations whatever direction chance or the inclination
and inquiries, heard his careless answers, and of the moment prompted. Romeyne and
knew that they turned and began to re- Powell were among the first of these desert-
trace their steps. Gradually, the gay voices era. They brought up the rear of the party,
died away, the calm Oreads of the hushed and, when a road branching off among the
solitude came back) and, as she knelt, still hills seemed beckoning them into a region of
motionless, she could scarcely tell whether enchantment, there was nothing more edsy
that brief interview had been a dream or a than to heed the invitation. They looked at
reality.                                 each other, smiled, and turned their horses'
heads. After that they saw no more of their
IT.                   companions. They wandered on and on, and,
Tan next morning Mrs. During felt that when at last the silence of the scene and the
the departure of the young teacher could not lateness of the hour made them pause, they
in safety be longer delayed; so, putting all found themselves in the midst of the moun-
other engagements aside, she drove into tains, with wild, tropical forest stretching
Kingston for the purpose of seeing Madame around on every side, and hardly a path be-
Girod. Since it was impossible to return be- neath their horses' feet. What was their po-
fore evening, she left the reins of management sition, whence they had come, in what direc-
in her mother's hands, and for a time Mrs. tion lay their homeward road; neither of them
Murray proved equal to the important respon- knew. They only realized that, in the delight
sibility. As the day were on, she kept Ro- of mutual companionship, in the glory of
meyne and Powell very cleverly apart; but, in heaven and the beauty of earth, they had
the afternoon, a riding-party was proposed, reeked little of their course, and so-lost it.
and, after her sanction had been given, she When they came to their senses, the sun
found, to her consternation, that uc one but was going down, and they knew that night
the young Georgian was bold enough to ride would fall upoa them as soon as his broad red
a certain beautiful mare which belonged to disk had disappeared. Just then, however,
Romeyne, and the rider of which would be the scene was of paradise. The air was full
honored with his attendance. As in courtesy of myriad perfumes; the sky was a vault of
bound, he had offered the animal to Miss Mur- sapphire, the distant ocean a plain of azure;
ray; but that young lady's neck was dearer the broken, picturesque peaks of the moun-

134

I

tain-range were crowned with plumy sentinels
and girdled with a wealth of foliage, while
heavy palms drooped over their heads, and
the rocks and glades about them were enam-
elled with a thousand shrubs, each of which,
in less favored climes, would have been a rare
exotic. Everywhere opened the broad, suc-
culent leaves that abound in the tropics;
everywhere shone the golden and crimson
glories for which botany has no name; and
through the deep green of a jungle on one
side was caught~ the sheen of flashing water,
as a swift mountain-stream leaped down a
height of some eighty feet into a rocky bed
below, and sent up a shower of spray like a
silver mist. The whole was so heavenly that,
when they paused, Powell scarcely noticed the
gravity of her companion's face, or his anx-
ious look around him. She was drinking in a
deep draught of the beauty lavished before
her, when he spoke:
"I am very much afraid that we have lost
our way. This is no road at all that we have
been following, and I really have very little
idea of our bearings."
"We shall have to turn back, I suppose,"
said she, carelessly. "It is a pity, for we shall
be late in reaching Flamatead. We can turn
back-can we not? " she added, with a sudden
accession of interest and concern, caused by a
glance at Romeyne's face.
"I-am not sure of it," said he, slowly,
as, turning in his saddle, he looked in the di-
rection from which they had come. "I am
afraid that, if we do turn back, we shall not
be able to reach the road," he went on.
"Unfortunately, I hardly noticed the way at
all, and there are no landmarks in my memory.
The scenery is so much alike that we may
have wandered Heaven only knows how far."
"What are we to do-keep straight on?"
"I dare not do that, with the night so near
at hand."
"Where is the middle course, then? We
cannot stand here until daylight."
"No-not if we can help it. Will you
hold my horse a minute? Perhaps, if I climb
that hill yonder, I may see something to guide
us."
He dismounted as he spoke, and, bringing
up his horse, gave her the rein. As she took
it she could not forbear urging him to haste,
for she had been long enough in the tropics
to know that the suxi would sink in a few min-
utes, and that darkness would almost instant-

POWELL V.A

.RDRAY'S LIFE.                       135
ly follow, lie did not need the recommend.
tion, but went off at once, breaking through
the Luxuriant undergrowth, dashing over the
torrent, and springing up the precipice down
which the cascade tumbled. Soon she lost
sight of him; but she could hear his voice
when he spoke, and now and then a large
stone fell crashing along the hill, making her
tremble for his safety. Suddenly the sun
went down, sinking like a shot into the dis-
tant expanse of ocean, and, simultaneously,
the fan-like foliage began to stir with the
breath of the land-breeze, while a chorus of
insect voices made all Nature animate with
their rejoicing. At this moment, Powell heard
a shout that made her look eagerly upward.
She saw Romeyne on a point of rock far above
her head; but he was dwarfed to almost pig.
my dimensions, and his voice, as it floated
down, sounded strangely distant.
"I can see nothing," he said-" nothing
but the mountains and the sea. I fancy that
Flamstead is in that direction" (he pointed
southeast), "but I cannot tell, and the co~n-
try is too broken for sight."
"But is there no other house to be seen?"
Powell asked, anxiously, for the situation be-
gan to break upon her in a far from pleas.
ant light
He looked round in every direction, using
his hand as telescope, then answered, slowly:
"None."
"Do you see any road?"
"Not even a path."
"Oh, what shall we do?"
"We must keep up our spirits, in the first
place, and, if necessary, we must bivouac out
all night, in the second. Would you be afraid
to do that?"
"I should prefer to go back to Flam'stead."
"AhI so would I. Well, it is growing
dark, and I may be some time in reaching
you-so I had better come down. I think I
see a way out of our difficulty. I recognize a
landmark over yonder, and, if we can only keep
straight and reach it, we shall be all right in
an hour or two."
"Do you mean to come down where you
went up?"
"Necessarily-since that is the only prac-
ticable point of descent. It is confoundedly
slippery, too. I only hope I shan't break my
neck-that would be unpleasant for you."
"Don't talk so heedlessly; and pray take
care."

'I'

II


136                       POWELL YA
"Can you see me?"
"Yes, quite plainly."
"Kiss your hand to me, then; and now-
He waved his own hand gayly, and then
swung himself over a point of rock. After
this, Powell could not see him any longer.
The luxuriant foliage hid him from her sight,
and, though she strained her eyes to pierce
through the dusk, it was impossible to follow
his movements. Then the horses grew restive,
and she had some trouble in quieting them.
Before she entirely succeeded in this, there
came a sound that chilled her blood-a sharp
exclamation, an ominous crashing of a heavy
body through the dense undergrowth, a dull
fall, a deep groan, and then an awful silence.
For a moment the girl sat stricken, with
horror, then she raised her voice and called
Romeyne's name but no answer was returned.
She waited a moment and called again-still
no answer. Then she sprang from her saddle,
left the horses to go where they would, and,
plunging recklessly into the thicket, made her
way to the spot where he had ascended. It
took her some time to do tl~is, for her long
habit was much in her way, and the water.
course intei~vened; but on she went, recklessly,
through the prickly shrubs, over the foaming
cataract, forward despite all obstacles, despite
her torn dress and bleeding hands, until at
last she reached her point of destination-the
foot of the hill. Then she paused, and gazed
earnestly around. Even at noonday, the spot
where she stood was dim and dark with the
shade of overhanging trees; now, In the dtzsky
gloaming, the shadows that gathered there
were almost unfathomable. Still, after a mo-
ment, her eyes grew accustomed to the dark.
ness, and she could distinguish, in form at
least, the objects surrounding her. On one
side was the silvery sheen of the water-fall; on
the other, a gigantic banana rose like a senti.
nel over the heads of the lesser trees, and flung
its broad leaves against the treacherous rocks
of the steep ascent. The trunk of this tree
was not three feet from the cascade, and, as
Powell stood beside it, a spray of the falling
Water came like rain in her face. Once again
she called, and now a faint groan answered 1
her. Guided by this, she sprang forward, and
in a moment was kneeling bya prostrate figure
that lay on the verge of the stream, half in,
half out of, the foaming water. The silent
depths of forest echoed with weird distinctness

RDRAY'S LIFE.

the wailing sound that broke from her lips as
she bent down and lifted in her arms that
stricken head.
"My love! my love!" she cried, in tones
that might have waked the dead, "can you not
speak to me? My God! are you killed?"
No sound answered her, not even a groan.
The head which she supported fell heavily
over her arm, and the strong young form lay
helpless and motionless with the leaden weight
of insensibility. After a moment, she bent
down and laid her ear over his heart. At first
she could not tell whether it beat, but grad-
ually she caught the slow, deep throbs, and
knew that life still held the citadel. That
knowledge was like an elixir of vitality to her,
and seemed to fill her with a strength and
energy that must have been lent from Heaven
for the time. She strove to draw him up from
the water; but the first movement brought
forth such a moan of pain that she was obliged
to desist from this attempt. Then she looked
round; cordial there was none, but Nature's
great restorative was near tt hand, and she
sprinkled his face with water until it was evi-
dent that he would revive. When this was
apparent, a thought suddenly struck her, and
she plunged her hand into his pockets, search.
ing for what she found at last-a small flask,
containing French brandy. She first tasted
this, then held it to his lips, and poured a
slender stream down his throat. In an in-
stant, the effeef was visible. He~drew a deep,
gurgling breath, opened his eyes, strove to
raise himself; fell back with a sharp cry of
pain, and lay still for a moment, panting
heavily. After a while, he said, slowly:
"Powell, are you there? are you near
me?"
"I am here, my love, my poor darling,"
said the girl, whose arms were round him, and
whose sobs were choking her, as she kept
them back, and strove to answer calmly.
"How did you "-a pause and a gasp-
"reach ~
"I don't know. I heard you fall, and I
came - that is all. Are you much hurt?
Oh! do you think you are much hurt?"
"I cannot tell. Wait a moment-let me
Lift myself and see. Sweetheart, held my
~houlders-help to raise me if you can, There
-now-O my God l"
It was no mere exclamation, this last, no
nere utterance of an ordinary appeal, but a
soul's great shuddering cry ever an agony too

I

great for endurance. After it there followed
stillness, and Powell knew that he had fainted
She did not faint herself, she did net eve:
shed a tear. Indeed, in that moment sh
proved the heroic nature of her love, by th
strength it gave her above her own weakness
She knelt by hiu, chafing his hands, bathing
his face, pouring brandy as well as she coub
between his clinched teeth, and striving, b~
every means in her power, to revive him: bu
no sound came from her lips, no throb of he
anguish found outward expression. Once only
she paused and looked upward. Through tin
drooping, plume-like foliage, the brilliant con
stellations of the southern heaven gazed down
shedding their mellow splendor even into thb
dark spot, and shimmering fitfully over tin
silver cascade. Save the rush of water, al
around was full of the strange awe and silenc
of the night-that silence in which we seem t
hear the great heart of Nature deeply beating.
Sounds there were, but they could scarcely in
analyzed or described-distant fitful voices of
the forest that deepened rather than lessened
the significance of the solitude. Powell felt
that she was utterly alone-alone with none
but God to aid-and out of the very despera-
tion of despair came courage. The great soul
rose up bravely to face the exigence, and after
that she never faltered, even to the end.
At last Romeyne slowly came back to con.
sciousness, and once more opened his eyes
into those that, full of wistful pain, gazed so
tenderly upon him.
"Sweetheart," he said, faintly, "bend
down."
She bent down, and he kissed her thrice
as passionately, but more softly, than he had
kissed her hand the night before. Then he
told her to lay his head gently on the ground.
"Why?'~ she asked, much pained at this.
"Why should I not hold it?"
"Because you must go back to Flamstead,"
he answered. "When I was up there "-he
glanced to the hill over his head-" I saw
what our best path would be, and I think
there is light enough for you to follow it. I
cannot move. You must leave me here, nnd
send for me. Listen now, and let me tell you
the route-"
But she would not listen-she cried out at
once on the cruelty of this.
"I will not go,'~ she said. "If I could
find the way a hundred times over, I would
not go. How can you bid me do such a thing?

POWELL V~

&amp;RDBAY'S LIFE.                        137
a How can you think I would leave you here
L suffering and alone? If I could bring help, it
a would be different; but it would require hours
o at least, and you all alone-oh, I would die
o sooner than go I You are cruel-cruel to try
to send me from you like this!"
"My darling, it is for-he stopped as he
I was about to say "your own sake." He knew
~r this was the last argument in the world to move
her; so after a moment he added-" it is for
L' the best. Do you think it is not happiness to
me to know that you are here, to feel your
arms around me, and your hand upon me, but
-but it must not be. Powell, my own, my
own, you must go I"
She understood him. She understood how
he thought of her even in his great extremity;
1 and how, for her own sake, he was willing to
send her from him. She knew, too, that he
wished to spare her what might be a vigil of
death, and in a moment her soul nerved itself
* for any endurance.
"You are thinking of me," she said, calm.
ly, "but there is no need for it. Here-now
.~the world is less than clothing to me, and
you are all. If I could help you by going, I
might force myself to leave you. But there is
no question of that. The best help I can
render you is to stay by you, and I shall stay.
Arthur, my own love, be merciful-let me do
it in peace."
He smiled faintly. He had said his say,
and was too weak to urge her further.
"Stay, then," he murmured. "But it will
be very, very bitter to you."
After this the hours wore slowly oz~-
broken only l~y such strong wrestling with
pain as would have torn the girl's heart if she
had seen the veriest stranger suffer them, yet
on which she looked without a murmur. She
held the quivering form, wiped the streaming
brow, moistened the parched lips, and gave
the brandy as he directed-all without a single
falter. Then in the intervals, when he could
talk faintly and brokenly, she listened and an-
swered more like an angel than a woman.
Love made her, for the time being, almost
divine, endowing her with a strength, a wis-
dom, and atenderness, that in herself she
could not vlaim. In these few hours of mingled
agony and bliss, she lived her life-all that was
ever granted her. He ;was dying; the sum-
mons had come in the full glory of his man-
hood, and he was going, he was almost gone,
into that realm of dark shadow where only

I


138                       POWELL VA
faith can pierce and love can follow, She
knew that, but she also knew that he was all
hers-that the world put no claim between
them here, that heart was bared to heart at
last, and that out of her arms no human power
could take him now. They belonged to each
other. He had told her that the night before,
but the sense of it did not come to her till
now-now that he was dying in her arms, all
alone in the wild forest. Gradually his mind
began to wander, and he talked of an English
home that his eyes would never see again.
"If I could only have taken you there, my
darling," he said, with a sudden return to con-
sciousness. "But this may be best. We have
tasted all the sweetness of the cup of love, and
we are spared any of its bitterness. Bitterness
might have come, you know-even to us. I
wonder if! am going, Powell? I wonder if it
is because I am not myself that I feel so
strangely content-so strangely sure that it is
all right?"
"God only knows, love. God grant that
indeed It may be all right-for you 1"
"Sweetheart, you won't forget me soon?"
"Forget you!" What a low, pitiful cry it
was. "Arthur, my ouily love, if I could go with
you, I would-even into the arms of death."
"Thank God, you cannot, then, for life is
sweet, and you are young. Darling, I shall
not see you when you are old."
"No one ever will," said she, with strange
calmness.
"You think so now-but ah!"
It was one of the fierce paroxysms-the
very fiercest that had been-and Powell al-
most thought it was the struggle of dissolu-
tion; but after a while it passed, and then she
heard him whisper under his breath a frag.
ment of the grand old "Dies Irm." "&amp;dva
mefons pi stat is," he murmured, and she caught
the words. For the firsttime-and yet she
was not a heathen-they made her think of
his soul.
"0 Arthur," she cried, "shall I not pray
for you ?-shall I not ask God to have mercy
on you?"
He murmured something unintelligible, but
which sounded like assent; and, without
changing her position, she poured forth her
soul in a tide of passionate supplication. The
whole strength of her undying love went into
it, and never before had the silent forest heark-
ened to such an appeal as now went forth,
piercing the infinite spaces of eternity to the

LRDRAYS LIFE.

very throne, of God. Suddenly she stopped,
for there was a change which even in the
darkness she perceived. What it was she
could not analyze, but she felt at once that the
end was at hand.
~Arthur, Arthur," she cried, wildly, "are
you going?"
He muttered something brokenly, and lay
for a moment in a stupor. Then he started,
and a smile swept over his face-a smile which
even in the faint starlight Powell caught-and
he murmured something of which she heard
only one word-her own name. With that
name still on his lips, a strong shiver seized
him, the breath fluttered-ceased-the eyes
closed-and the girl knew that she was deso-
late.
When Powell came to herself out of the
awful blackness and blankness that followed,
she was lying in her own room at Madame
Girod's. Every thing around looked so quiet
and so familiar, that for a moment she almost
believed that she had waked from a horrible
dream-but it was only for a moment, The
next instant memory rushed over her-rushed
not singly and by degrees-but suddenly, and
in one awful whole. In a second, she remem-
bered every thing, felt every thing, and, with
a low, moaning cry-a protest, as it were,
against life-she turned her face from the
light, and buried it in the pillows.
At that cry, the German teacher rose qui-
etly from a seat behind the bed-curtains, and
advancing laid her hand on the girl's brow.
She started, for it was cooler than she ex-
pected. Then she leaned over and spoke:
"Liebcken, do you feel better?"
The voice waS very sweet, and Powell
opened her eyes. She had never fancied this
woman much-indeed, she had taken quite a
dislike to her, in the quick, inpatient fashion
of youth-but now she read such earnest kind-
ness in her eyes, that the sore heart opened at
once to receive it.
"Better l" she cried-then, with a burst,
"Oh, why did you make me well again? Why
did y6u not let me die?"
"Child," said the German, gravely, "life
and death are in God's hands. Were you so
ready to go to Him, that you can talk like
this?"
"I shall never be more ready; and I would
have gone anywhere with kim, Oh, Frilulein,
tell me where he is buried."

The Fritulein looked grave; but she also
looked sad and infinitely pitiful. "Do you
mean Captain Romeyne?" she asked, at
length.
"Whom else should I mean? Oh, my poor
love l He died in these arms, and i-i must
live on, and never see him again."
"Died! My poor child, are you sure of
that?"
"Am I sure? Friiulein, what do you
mean? Did I not see him die ?-did I not
feel the last quiver of life that passed over
him ?-did I not-oh, why do you ask inc
such a question? Why do you look at me so
strangely? Fritulein, it cannot be-" She
raised herself, and caught the teacher's arm,
gazing the while passionately and wildly into
the eyes that regarded her with such infinite
compassion. "Speak I" she gasped. "It can-
not be that he is alive?"
"Yes, he is alive."
The girl strove to speak, strove to question,
strove evidently to say "Thank God!" but
strength failed. Her hand relaxed its grasp
on the teacher's sleeve, her eyes closed, her
head sank back-she had fainted. Weeping
softly, the German applied the usual remedies;
and, as the swoon was slight, before long it
yielded to them. Then, when the dark eyes
once more opened, there was a question in
their depths, and, when the lips enclosed, it
came rushing forth at once.
"Fritulein, wrn he recover? Oh, God bless
you for such news l But tell me-if he will
ever be himself again?"
"He will recover certainly; it is said, in-
deed, he is much better now.
"And where is he? When can I see
him?"
The teacher toyed nervously with the tas-
sels of the bed-curtains, and looked away,
avoiding Powell's eyes, and gazing out of the
~wmdow.
"You eau't see him at all," she said, at
last. "He is gone."
"Gone!"
"He sailed yesterday for England."
This time no swoon was 'kind enough~ to
come. On the contrary, the startled eyes
opened wider and wider, with incredulity in
their gaze. It seemed, indeed, as if they could
not take themselves from the teacher's face,
until the expression of that face repeated the
news so sharply told. Then there was a cry-
a low, pitiful cry, as of one wounded unto~

POWELL VA

RDRAY'S LIFE.                       139
death-and the girl once more sunk back and
buried her face from the light. This time she
tasted the full bitterness of desolation, and,
tasting it, cried out for death as a release.
But death came not at her desire. Slowly
and by degrees, life flowed into her veins, and
beat in her languid pulses. Slowly the duties
of existence thronged back upon her, and she
rose up to meet them. She did so with a
strange, stunned quietude, a sort of dead apa-
thy, the feeling and the~ bearing of one in
whom Fate had spent its last blow. She did
not think she could ever suffer another pang,
and so went on her weary round, until one day
all this false quiet was suddenly shivered,
when the news came that the vessel in which
Arthur -Ilomeyne sailed for England, having
met with adverse winds and storms, had gone
down at sea.
Not long after this, Alicia Murray came
one day to see the young teacher, and from
her Powell received an assurance which she
would gladly have gone in sackcloth and ashes
all her life to gain-the assurance that the
man, for whom she had suffered so much, had
not deserted her willingly, or even knowingly.
When he was found helpless and insensible, a
message had immediately been dispatched for
a cousin of the Romeyne family, who was act-
ing as British consul in one of the neighboring
islands. When this man arrived, his first reso-
lution was to take Romeyne at once to Eng-
land. Mrs. Dering, who inspired the idea, sup.
ported him in its execution, and the young
man was removed to the vessel while yet una-
ble to oppose, or even to understand, any
thing that was in progress. in this state he
sailed; and it was due to Mrs. During again,
that all Kingston, having heard of his ivonder-
ful recovery, believed that he had gone of his
own free-will. The plan was well enough laid;
but, whether i~ would have succeeded in its
final result, was never known. God stretched
forth His arm of power, the winds and the
waves rose up to do His bidding, and all was
over. The good ship went down, the ocean.
tides swept over the heart that might have
been so true, and yet again might have been
so false; and all love, all hope, all suffering,
was at an end forever.
Here, also, ended Powell Vardray's life.
In all the years of her existence, she never
lived again. Yet these years were quiet enough,
and in one sense-the sense of duty fulfilled
and work performed-even happy. She never


140               POWELL YARDRAY'S LIFE.

murmured at their length or their sameness, helped to bury the dead. She gave herself no
She had lived her life, and that seemed to rest, either night or day; and, when all was
suffice. Yet, as she once told Arthur Romeyne, over, when the pestilence passed, and health
she did not live to grow old. Before that came back to those whom death had spared,
time, the summoned, who comes to all, came she sickened and died. By her own request,
to her. A terrible fever decimated the island, one side of the stone which marks her grave
and, in the midst of panic and dismay, she bears this inscription:
nursed the sick, tended the dying, and even        "1db babe gelebt und geliebet."
THE END.

body could for an instant compare it to the
elegant villas which were scattered to the
westward, and monopolized all that fair out-
look of rolling country which had once been
its own-neither was it a very comfortable
house, according to modem ideas of comfort.
But you rarely find, nowadays, such work as
that of the panelled walls or richly-carved
chimney-pieces, and there were nooks and
corners about it, odd rooms stored away in all
sorts of unaccountable places, and closets al-
most as large as rooms under the strange,
dark, winding staircases, which gave it a
charm that the most commodious and thor-
oughly-ventilated houses oftener lack than
possess. Then, there was the back piazza, all
latticed in and covered with green vines, until
it had the seclusion, and more than the cool-
ness, of a drawing-room: And beyond this
piazza was the gem of the whole establishment
-the old-fashioned garden, shut in from the
outer world by a high wall, through which no
one could peer, and over which no one could
climb, occupying nearly a square, full of fruit-
trees, fragrant with flowers, and abounding in
shrubs that half a century before had been
trimmed into the formal regularity of art, but
had now overgrown every thing with the wild
luxuriance of Nature.
It was in this garden that the flickering
April sunlight marked twelve o'clock on a
sundial that occupied the middle of a green
plat, round the borders of which bright-hued
lowers of the spring were blooming,. while
just in front of it was an arbor draped all
over with that fragrant darling of the Caro-
lina woods, the yellow jasmine. Within this
arbor, framed, as it ware, by the green ten-
drils and golden bells, sat a young girl, busily
engaged in drawing, at a small table. Seen

BERNARD'S INVENTION.

I.
T WELVE o'clock.
Not midnight, but bright, soft noonday
-the noonday of lovely April-in the old-
fashioned garden of an old-fashioned house,
located in the very midst of the business por-
tion of the large and flourishing town of
W-. It had once been a very elegant
residence, this old house, and had stood on the
outskirts of the town, with pleasant hills and
valleys, waving woods ahd green fields, sweep-
ing up to the very verge of the garden. But
now, all around it, flowed a busy tide of
trade; warehouses of cotton and tobacco rose
on citherside; wagons and drays rattled past
unceasingly; in the rear, a car-shop belched
forth black smoke; while engines screamed,
and trains rumbled heavily back and forth, at
all hours of the night and day. Still, even
amid these discordant surroundings, the old
house held its own bravely, and, wrapping it-
self about with a mantle of dignified reserve,
looked down with the pride of conscious an-
tiquity upon all these new-comers of the later
time. It had a right to do this, since its own
recollections went back to the time when the
Georges were kings, and when, at intervals,
the red-men gathered strength to sweep down
upon the dove-cots of their invaders. It was
pointed out by the W-ites as the place
where Cornwallis had established his head-
quarters, and where he and his. courtly staff
had once given a ball, and with the fair Tory
ladies of the place danced a summer's night
through. Life and death, and joy and sor-
row, had each had its own time within its
dark old wails; yet, still it stood, a memorial
of the stately past, and, in some wise, a re-
buke of the flippant present. It was not a
pretty house, as beauty is reckoned now-no-
10


142BERNARD'S INVENTION.

under favorable circumstances, she might ha~
been, and no doubt was, exceedingly pretty
but just now she looked pale and weary; he
dress was careless; her hair was hastily
pushed back, and gathered in a rough, laos
knot behind; while her forehead was drai~
into a frown that ill became its pearly white
ness. On the table before her la2y open a cas
of mathematical-drawing instruments, and
was with these that she worked, tracing ou
intricate designs of an apparently mechanic
character on a large sheet of card-board, am
now and then noting down certain numerical
results on a sheet of paper near at hand. I'
was weary work, and when, at last, she glance
up, and saw that it was twelve o'clock, sh
threw down her pencil with an air of unmis.
taxable relief.
"I must go and see about dinner," she
said, half aloud; and, as she said it, she took
up a large portfolio from the ground beside
her chair, and began to put the drawing away.
While she was thus occupied, a clear, fresh
voice suddenly called, "Annie!', A quick,
ringing step sounded on the gravel walk, and,
round a group of shrubs that formed a perfect
cloud of tinted bloom, a young man of the
most frank and cheery presence imaginable
came into sight. He was not particularly
handsome, but he had a graceful, well-knit
figure, and an open, pleasant face, while his
whole manner diffused such an air of moral
sunshine that it was no yonder the gloom
parted and fled from' the girl's brow at once.
"Louis!" she cried, eagerly; and then
smiled, and added, in a tone of absurdly-
weak reproof, "You provoking boy! how you
startled me! What on earth brings you here
at this hour of the day?"
"Kiss me, pretty one, and I'll tell you,"
said the new-coiner, gayly. Then, having
taken this favor,' without incurring any rebuke
thereby, he added, more gravely: "Annie,
darling, congratulate me-my fortune is n~ade!
If your father agrees, we can be married this
day two months."
"'Oh!" said Annie, with a gasp; but the
color came into her face, and made her abso-
lutely lovely, "0 Louis! how? what? Tell
me what you mean-tell me all about it I"
The young man kissed her again. lie was
evidently glowing with triumph, and found it
hard to contain his exultation within moderate
bounds.
"I mean just what I say," he answered;

re "but, as for telling you all about it, I can't do
; that, dearest, for I am bound to secrecy. I
~r can only tell you this: my fortune-our for-
y tune-is made, and you are mine."
e "I was always that!" she cried, with
ii 9oinething between a laugh and a sob. "But,
surely, Louis, you can tell me a little more
e than this. If it is to be our fortune, surely I
t have a right to know how it is' made."
t "Can't you trust me~ Annie?"
"Trust you 1 Indeed, yes-ever and al-
I ways. But, then, you know we are pledged
1 not to keep any secrets from each other."
"Only such as honor demands; and this is
I a case of honor. However, I can tell you a
little, the general outline of the matter. Here,
let us sit down and talk at our leisure. Now,
that is better. Well, to begin rather far from
the point, and not so far either, you know I
have always had a decided mechanical talent,
and, thanks to your father's kindness, I have
acquired some aptitude in turning it to ac-
count."
"Yes," said Annie, with a rueful glance
at the portfolio; "yes, I know you have, and
I know you will end by being as bad as he is,
if you do not stop yourself in time."
"Stop myself!" repeated the young man,
with a laugh. "Why, little simpleton, the sci-
ence of mechanics is the lever of the world
nowadays, and in all the world there is no bet-
ter or more direct road to fortune than that
which it opens. If we are married two months
hence, it will be thanks to mechanics."
The girl's face fell a little; but she did not
utter any thing, excepting the simple inter.
rogative-
"How?"
"Br mcans of a great invention," an-
swered the young man, with color rising to
his face, and Ught flashing in his eyes-" am
invention which will be the greatest since
steam, and which will go far ~to revolutionize
the whole system of mechanics, as known to
the world atpresent. I wish I could show it
to you, Annie darling'; I wish I could tell you.
-But what is the matter? Why do you look
at mc as if-as if you were disappointed 1"'
"Because I am disappointed!" cried the
girl; and, before her lover knew what she was
about, she had laid her head down on the table
and was sobbing bitterly. Poor things! It
was hard on both of them. Hard on the tri-
umphant bearer of good news to see it so re-
ceived. Harder still on the girl who had been

0
a
0
U,
5)
a
'4
0
4)
5)
'S
'S
0
C.)
a
a

I
/
I,
Ii
e
L

142


BERNARD'S INVENTION-               14

/

so flushed with hope to have it dashed by that
word, to her, of' fatal omen-" invention."
" I thought you meant something real-
something to be relied on," she sobbed. "0O
Louis, how could you disappoint me so cruel-
ly ! Oh, I am so sorry, so very sorry, that
this fever-God knows I am almost tempted
to call it this madness-has seized you, tool
Louis, for Heaven's sake put it from you !
Trust to the steady results of honest labor,
and not to these wild schemes of a fortune to
be made at one stroke. Look at my father!
let him be a warning to you. See bow his
life has been spent in the service of this
wretched science-how many inventions, that
were to benefit the world, he has made-and
where and how he is to-day ! Oh, I had so
hoped that with you I should be free from this
weary toil that comes to nothing, this cager
counting on dreams that are shadowy as air!
And now-Louis, Louis, you will break my
heart !"
" Dear love, I hope not," said Louis, half
concerned, half amused. " You don't appre-
ciate your father, Annie. You don't know
what a great man he is-what a great man he
yet will be in the face of that world which has
treated him as from the beginning it has al-
ways treated genius-has robbed him, and
laughed at him, and refused to hear him !
But it will hear him yet. There never was a
great mind that did not have to pass through
this ordeal; there never was a great discovery
that was not met by this opposition; there
never was a great achievement that did not
have to triumph over these difficulties. It
has been hard on you, my poor pet ; but I
hope the hardest is over at last. Apart from
my good fortune, your father tells me' that he
is working on- an invention, which he thinks
the greatest he has ever made, and the patent-
right of which he does not mean to put out
of his own hands."
" Yes, he is working at it," said the girl,
wearily, and once more she glanced at the
portfolio. " I have been making out some of
the drawings," she added ; " but he forbade
me to show them, even to you. He has been
robbed so often, that he has grown very sus-
picious now. Sometimes, I think he is reluc-
tant to trust even me. 0 Louis, it is so sad !
And to think that you have started on the
same path"
" I have only made it 'beginning, dear, and
as for my being a great inventor, you may set

your mind at rest on that point. Nature did
not favor me with the rare gift of original
conception. I can only work out other men's
thoughts, and sometimes bring them to a
practical issue. This is all that I have done
now. A gentleman, a friend of mine-I can-
not tell you his name, because he desires that
it may be kept secret-conceived a new idea
in mechanics, but, lacking practical knowl-
edge of the science, he could not work it out
in practical form. So he brought a rough
draught of the invention to me, and told me
that, if I could perfect it, I might take out
the patent, and share half the profits. I saw
at once what a magnificent thing it would be
if ft could be perfected; so I fell into the idea
forthwith, and went to work. 0 Annie, how
I worked ! I saw fortune and you before me,
and I never drew rein night or day. But,
after a while, the inventor's fever came over
me, and the fascination of the science overtook
me,. Then I forgot all about fortune, I even
forgot all about you, and worked on and on,
only that I might reach the result which
seemed ever before me and yet ever eluding
me. It eluded me for a long time, and no one
but an inventor can imagine the fever in
which I lived during that time. Waking or
sleeping, I thought of nothing else-saw
nothing else ; and when, at last, one day the
solution of my difficulties came to me like a
flash of inspiration, I shouted until my neigh-
bors thought that I was mad. I wanted then
to throw down pencil and paper and rush to
you; but Mr.-, I mean the original inventor,
held me bound to absolute secrecy, and he did
not relax this requirement even when all the
specifications were made out and forwarded to
the Patent-Office. It was not until this morn-
ing, when he came and told me that the patent
was finally issued, that he also told me I might-
announce the fact to my friends, provided I
didn't divulge his name. Heaven only knows
why he should wish to give me all the credit,
as. well as half the profits; but one thing is
certain, my darling-our fortune is made, and
you are mine!1"
He caught the girl in his arms at the last
words, and kissed her again and again, while
she could only lay her head down on his shoul-
der and indulge in an hysterical combination
of laughter and tears.
"I am happy, Louis, and grateful-oh,
so grateful!1" she said, as well as the laughter
and tears aforesaid would allow ; " but, dear

F'

$1

I

143


144             ~BERNARD'S INVENTION.                                                         BRADSIVNIN

love, I should be still more happy, still moi
grateful, if the fortune had come to you in an
other way. It seems to me like gambling-
like something that means prosperity for
little while, but ruin in the end. I may b
very foolish, but that is the way it seems t
me, and then-O Louis, I feel sure that, i
some way oi- other, it will bring us ill-luck "
Louis -smiled at this ; but he did not at
tempt any thing like reason in reply. On th
contrary, he changed the subject, and aske4
the foreboding girl if her father was at home
"I did not see him as I came through th
house," he said; ,"and I am on thorns until:
tell him my good, luck, and hear him assur
me that I may take you as soon as I please."
"He is not likely to give you that assur
ance to-day,"' said she, nodding archly. -
"Is he not.?. Well, let us go and see."
They went accordingly, sauntering side byj
'side down the garden-paths bordered within
rows of tall box, and -enlivened here and
there by fragrant lilacs and sweet purple wis
teria, until they reached the latticed piazza
From this they entered a narrow, dark pas-.
sage, made still darker from the fact of the
front door being closed, and thence passed
into a room that resembled an amateur ma-
chine-shop more than any thing else. Mathe-
matical and mechanical designs lined the
walls ; models, in minature, of all machines,
in connection with which steam has ever been
used as a motive power, occupied every avail-
able space--excepting that which was filled
by a large lockedl cabinet-and in the midst
of this apparent disorder stood a table, littered
over with paper and drawing-materials. An-
nie looked round the apartment and shook her
head'.                    .      .
"Papa is not here,"' she said. "You must
remain on thorns a little longer, Louis."
"May he not be in the house some-
where ?"-
" No, he has gone out. Don't you see his
hat is missing ? He has gone to themachine-
shops, I am sure. He often goes there for
what he calls ' practical suggestions.' Come,
let us sit on the piazza. This room is so dark
and cold that it makes me shiver."
VER much like the fortunes of the old
house were the fortunes of the man who at
present inhabited it. He was a gentleman of
good descent, as his name-the noble Scottish

re name of Gordon-amply testified ; and he had
ty once possessed a more than moderate amount
- of wealth ; but, having been blessed, or rather
a cursed, with the gift of invention, this wealth
e had melted away to satisfy the insatiate de-
o mands of scientific experiment, until little or
n none of it remained. After his fortune was
gone, he soon exhausted the long-suffering pa-
-tience of his friends. They were all practical,
e worldly-wise people, and, regarding him as a
di half-mad visionary, troubled themselves very
.little about the manner in which they expressed
e this opinion. Naturally enough, Mr. Gordon
I resented its expression, and, naturally also, a
formal break was the result. Being a widower
with only one child, he took this child, and
- the yet dearer children of his brain--his in-
v-entions-and went forth into the world to
conquer fortune. Instead of conquering, h-ow-
ever, he was speedily conquered. , Men laughed
Iat his inventions, and then stole them; patent-.
Irights, of his own discoveries, were taken out
- before his eyes; and he fell a victim to the
.countless modes of swindle and legal robbery
that, from first to last, lie in wait for the in-
ventor, and filch from him both the glory and
the profit he has toiled to gain. After a time,
he drifted to W--, and became an inmate
of the rambling old house already, described.
Here he lived an eremite sort of existence,
working with feverish energy at an invention,
which was to revolutionize the whole system
of mechanics, and make not one, but a dozens
fortunes for himself.' Here, also, he made the
acquaintance of Louis Bernard, a young civil
engineer of unusual promise and talent. De-
spite this promise and talent, however, the
young man was poor as a church mouse. But,
in Mr. Gordon's eyes, this fact was any thing
but a disadvantage. He was so very eccen-
tric--so very crazy, his friends said-that he
looked upon poverty somewhat in the light
of a badge of merit ; and, wheni he found that
a love-affair was developing between his pretty
Annie and young Bernard, instead of turning
the penniless suitor out-of-doors, he told him
that he might marry the maiden a's soon as
he could support her in a respectable inanner.
Encouraged in this way, the love-affair be-
came an authorized engagement, and was of
six months' standing on that bright April
morning when our story 'opened-.
Now, while the two lovers satt on the trel-
lised piazza, and, with the glory of sunlight
and fragrance of flowers around them,- laid

144

145

countless plans for their blissful future, Mr.
Gordon, as his daughter had rightly surmised,
was peering in and out among the machinery
.of the engine and ear-shops, located near his
house. These car-shops formed quite a large
establishment, for the railroad, to which they
belonged, was very flourishing, and it was
here that most of its rolling-stock was con-
structed. Consequently, the .latest improve-
ments in machinery were always to be found
here, and consequently, also, it was a great
resort of Mr. Gordon's. The employes knew
him well, and, although they considered him
a little "touched," liked him amazingly. The
authorities, however, looked at him askance,
and it was only the master-machinist who ever
went out of his way to do him a kindness, or
show him a civility.
This man, though only thirty-five, ranked
high in his calling, and had entire control of
the works. His name was Liddell; he was
gentlemanly, though not a gentleman, and had
for some time assiduously cultivated Mr. Gor-
don's acquaintance. To accomplish this was
not difficult, since there was that best possible
foundation for acquaintanceship, a common
taste, between them. But the most natural
things frequently excite' gossip in a country-
town ; and unscrupulous news-mongers did
not hesitate to say that the bright eyes of
Annie Gordon possessed more attraction to
the master-machinist than did her father's
discourses ~on cog-wrheels and piston-rods.
however that might be, Mr. Liddell was one
of the few visitors who ever crossed the thresh-
old of the old house ; and, in a quiet way,,
both father and daughter liked him cordially.
On this morning, as Mr. Gordon stood at-
tentively regarding the action of a certain new-
fangled cylinder, the master-machinist came
out of his office and walked up to him.
"I am glad to see you, Mr. Gordon," said
-he, after the first salutations were exchanged,
"to congratulate you on young Bernard's'good
luck. What a fortunate thing it is for him !
-and I suppose I may congratulate Miss An-
nie, too."
.Mr. Gordon looked up, and, with his head
full of the cylinder, did not understand 'the
drift of this remark.
"Bernard's good luck !" he repeated. "I
have not heard of any special luck of his.
What has he fallen upon ? A good position ?"
"Something much better than a good po-
sition," answered Liddell, shrugging his shoul-

ders. " I wonder you have not heard-every-
body is full of it-he has made a fortune by a
patent."
" A fortune !-by a patent !"
"A fortune, undoubtedly, and by a patent.
Why, I am astonished you don't know any
thing about it. I supposed, of course, Ber-
nard had been consulting you all this time.
And in faet I thought-I felt sure-that you
had a hand in the matter.. The idea looks like
you-at least I fancied as much."
" What is the ideal?" asked Me Gordon,
all in a fever, immediately. " The scamp has
told me nothing whatever about it-very shab-
by of him, I think ! I always knew he had
sense, however-I always knew he would
make his fortune sooner or later-only I did
not 'look for it quite so soon! What is the
idea, Mr. Liddell? Bless my soul !-to think
of a patent !"
" The idea is something quite new, at least
in machinery," said Liddell. " I don't know
that I can explain it-'m not a good hand at
description-but if you'll step into my office I
can show you a design that Bernard made out
to show me what it was, and how it worked.
That fellow has a most capital head,"
"Yes," said Mr. Gordon, assenting most
sincerely about the head ; but, he hesitated,
and evidently did not like to inspect the de-
sign. " If Bernard had wished me to see it-"
he began, with some dignity, but Liddell in-
terrupted him.
"My dear sir," he exclaimed with a laugh,
" don't you see why Bernard said nothing to
you about it ? He was afraid the thing might
not succeed, and he wanted to spring a success
and not a failure upon you. No doubt he is
at your house now, telling the good news to
'Miss Annie, and, meanwhile, where is the harm
of taking a look at the design ? The patent
being all safe, anybody and everybody may
see it."
" I suppose there is no harm," said Mr.'
Gordon ; and, the temptation being too strong
for his dignity to resist, he forsook the cylin-
der, and followed the machinist to his office.
This office was a small box, with a table,
two chairs, and'a desk, in it. Placing one of
the chairs beside' the table, for his visitor,
Liddell opened the desk and busied himself in
extracting a particular paper from a' crowded
pigeon-hole. After some trouble, this was ac-
complished, and then he unfolded and spread
it out-a large sheet covered with India-ink

a


146                  BERNARD'S INVENTION.                                                       BERNARD'S INVENTION.                 147

designs-before the eyes of the eager in- "Nothing is the matter," said Mr. Gordon,
venter, faintly, but he sat down and took the water-.
The latter rose and bent forward-trem- indeed, it was a matter of necessity to do so.
bling with excitement. Any thing that re- "Nothing is the matter," he repeated, wearily;
lated to inventions or patents interested him adding in a lower tone-" nothing-nothing
deeply, but the present matter came home to but the old story."
him almost as if it had been one of his own. "I hope you are not vexed with Bernard
Bernard's invention! He was eager to see for not letting you know. I assure you-"
what the boy had managed to accomplish; so Something in the face before him stopped
eager, indeed, that for a moment this very the machinist at this point. Involuntarily he
eagerness defeated its own object. The paper ceased speaking, and said nothing, even when,
swam before his eyes, the diagrams danced to after several minutes had elapsed, Mr. Gordon
and fro, and he saw nothing. After a second, rose and silently left the office.
however, the mist cleared, and then, as his He walked down the street toward his own
glance fell on the principal design, the idea house like one stunned. The people who met
showed itself clear and distinct. Ite saw it, him looked in his face, shrugged their shoul-
caught it, suddenly gasped, and fell back into ders, and said to each other, "The man grows
his chair almost fainting, more crazy every day." But when he reached
Liddell, who was looking at him, was sen- home, when he opened and closed the front-
ously alarmed, for he thought l~e had at least door, crossed the passage and stood in his
a case of apoplexy on his hands. Seizing own room, this unreal quietude gave way. He
some water that chanced to be near by, he looked round on the darlings of his heart, the
sprinkled it over the pallid face, and, snatch- mute children of his brain; he gazed pitifully
ing up a newspaper, fanned the swooning man at that jealously-locked cabinet, where the
vigorously, loosening his cravat at the same toil of so many weary months, of anxious
time. In a few minutes these remedies had days, and sleepless nights, was drawing to a
their due effect. Mr. Gordon recovered him- successful issue; he glanced at the table
self; looked up, and finally spoke-with a where long lines of abstruse calculation met
strangely-pitiful quaver in his voice: his eye; then, with one deep groan, he sank
"Let me see it ao'ain. I-I must have into a scat, buried his face from the light, and
been mistaken." sat a picture of stricken desolation.
"My dear sir, what is the matter?" cried In this state his daughter found him, when
Liddelk "Is there any thing " she entered, followed by her lover. Her eyes
"The design! the design!" interrupted were so dazzled by the bright sunshine, from
the inventor, with feverish energy. "My which she had come, that for a moment she
God, man! don't talk to me when I am al. did not see the relaxed figure bent forward
most mad! Show it to me instantly!" over the useless papers; hut the next instant
The tone was so peremptory that the other she caught sight of it, and rushed forward,
obeyed at once. He held it up, and Mr. Gor- with her whole heart in her voice.
don leaned forward, examining it intently. "Papa! what is the matter?"
He said nothing; but the naturally pale hue Mr. Gordon raised his face, and the mere
of his complexion grew almost ashy, and his sight of it seemed to petrify her, for she
hands clasped and unclasped themselves con- stopped suddenly, and stood motionless. Nev-
vulsively, while more than once his lips quir- er in all her life before had she seen a face so
ered as if with unspoken words. At last he set and bloodless, and never had she met
motioned it away, and rising, without a syl- such a look as gleamed on her now from her
lable, tottered, rather than walked, to the father's eyes. "Papa!" she cried again, with
door. By this time, however, Liddell had a startled appeal in her voice-and as she
somewhat recovered from his first surprise, paused Bernard spoke.
and thought it time to interfere; so he fol- "Something has happened, Mr. Gordon!
lowed and caught his arm. Something is the matter! What is it?" he
"Mr. Gordon, pray sit down," he said, said, hastily.
"You are not fit to go out in this state. Take In a moment, as it were, the inventor was
some water-try to compose yourself-Good himself-indeed, more than himself. Few
Heavens, sir! what is the matter?" people who knew the abstracted 'devotee of

science, the pale scholar whose mind wa
habitually absent from the earth he trod
would have recognized him in the man whi
faced around upon the speaker, his face glow
ing with passionate efiergy, and h5 eyes flash
ing with indignant fire.
"You ask me that!" he said. "Yo,
dare to enter my room, side by side with m~
daughter, and speak to me-to me whom yoi
have so shamelessly betrayed 1' Your audaci
ty almost equals your villany, and I have ho
one answer for you-leave my house!,,
There is no exaggeration in saying that ii
a thunder-bolt from heaven had rent the solic
walls asunder, neither Bernard nor Annie
could have been more confounded than b1
this unexpected and unprecedented outbreak,
"Oh, my poor father!" cried the girl, undci
her breath, for she thought the veritable mad.
ness had come at last; but the young man
after one gasp of astonishment, saw that there
wus nothing of insanity in the steady face
fronting him, and, as well as he could com~
mand himself; answered:
"I don't understand this. I am so little
conscious of having offended you, that I must
ask you to be more explicit. What have I
done? What do you mean by accusing me
of villany-by saying that I have betrayed
you ?"
"Answer me one question," said the elder
man, sternly. "Have you not patented an in-
vention?"
"An invention!" Bernard started; then
added more quietly, "I came this morning to
tell you that I had done so."
"To tell me!" It is impossible for words
to express the indignant scorn that was in
those three words-" To tell me! Well, in
return, I will tell you that you arc a thief!"
"Papa!"
It was Annie's voice that rang through the
room with this cry of indignant reproach, but,
for a full minute, Bernard made neither sound
nor movement. When those bitter words fell
on his ear, he took one quick, unconscious
step forward; but the next he remembered
himself; and fell back. In the minute that
followed, he fought a fierce fight for self-con-
trol, and gained the victory. When at last he
spoke, the veins were standing out on his fore-
head like knotted cords, but his voice was
steady and firm.
"I have only one reply to make, sir-sub-
stantiate the charge."

a     "That is easy enough to do, if you will be
1, kind enough to describe the nature of your in-
~ mention."
Coldly and concisely the young man com-
plied with the request. He described the na-
turn of the conception which he had worked
out to a successful result, and briefly added
the explanation which he had already made
1 to Annie, a statement that the original inven-
- tion was not his own, and an account of the
difficulty he had encountered in bringing it to
practical operation. Mr. Gordon heard him
out, without interruption of any kind, and
I was silent for a moment. Then he said
frigidly:
"Do you decline to give the name of the
original inventor?"
"I have no option but to decline, so long
as he chooses to hold me bound to secrecy."
"Is he likely to hold you bound to se-
crecy if your good name is at stake in the
matter?"
*    The young man threw his head back
haughtily.
"My good name is not likely to be at
stake, sir, with any one who knows me."
"Is it not?" said the other, with a short,
hard laugh. "Then it is only because men
will believe your word in preference to that
of the mad old inventor. Perhaps you count-
ed upon this, however. If so, the calculation
did you credit."
"Papa! "-Annie broke in, with a wail,
"why do you say such cruel things? Louis
does not understand them, and neither do I.
Speak plainly, for Heaven's sake! Tell him-
tell me-of what you suspect him."
"I suspect him of nothing," said Mr. Gor-
don, sternly; "on his own evidence I co~evict
him of basely stealing my invention, th~ inven-
tion at which I have labored so long-the in-
vention which was dearer to me tban you, my
child of flesh and blood-and of patenting it
for his own use, and in his own name."
"Papa!"
"Look at him," said the inventor, rising
and pointing with an almost tragic gesture at
the young man. "Look at him! Tell me if
that is the face of an innocent man."
And in truth, at that moment, Bernard's
face was scarcely that of an innocent man.
The very nature of the accusation had stricken
from him all means of defence, while its sud-
denness so completely overwhelmed him, that
he stood in the centre of the floe; a pale,


148                 BERNARD'S INVENTION.                                                         BERNARD'S INVENTION~                149

silejit picture of what seemed detected guilt.
Not so thought Annie, however. She gave
one glance at his face, and then sprung to his
Bide.
"Louis, Louis, dear loVb, don't take it so!"
she cried. "He does not mean it! he will be
sorry for it yet.-Oh, it is cruel!" she ex-
claimed, turninground upon her father. "You
outrage him, and you outrage me! Papa,
papa, how can you-how could you 1"'
"Perhaps you have share in it, too," said
the inventor, bitterly, as her voice broke down
in tears. "I was a fool to trust you-to trust
anybody. I might have known that treachery
and robbery would be the end. With or with-
out your connivance, he must have obtained
the design from you."
"From me!" cried thegirl, with a startled
gasp-for she had not expected this. Then
she turned to Bernard and held out her hand.
"0 Louis, see how little he is himself! see
how little he means it! see how little you can
resent a charge in which I am included!"
"I resent it only thus far," saidBernard,
looking at Mr. Gordon. "I ask now, as I
asked. before, to hear the evidence on which I
am cond~nined."
"You shall see it," answered the other,
briefly. He went to the cabinet, unlocked the
door, and took out a large portfolio. Bring-
ing this to the table, he opened it, and bade
the young man come forward. When he
came, several designs were spread before him.
He took them up, one by one, and examined
them closely. This occupied some time, and
after putting down the last one he still re-
mained silent-his face deadly pale, and his
eyes bent downward in deep thought. It was
only when Mr. Gordon asked what he had to
say, that he looked up and 'spoke.
"I have only to say this-that Fate is
against me," he answered. "I cannot refute
the evidence of these papers. I am, indeed,
astounded at it. I can only assert my own
innocence-and of course that assertion counts
for nothing with 'you. I do not believe that
the man who applied to me stole the inven-
tion; for, in the first place, he is a man of
honor; and, in the second place, ha had no
opportunity to do so. Therefore, I can only
believe that it has been a strange coincidence
of thought. God knows how much I regret
having had any part in it; but of one thing
you n~ay be. sure-until of your own accord
you retract the accusation made this day, I I

will never touch one cent of the profits. I
have not much hope of such a thing-but the
truth may come to light some day. Until
then, sir, I return you many thanks for your
past kindness, and bid you good-by. Of course,
you know that I shall not enter your doors
again. Annie-darling-"
His voice broke down here; but he held
out his hands, and in a moment Annie came to
him with a rush. She was weeping bitterly,
and in the midst of their parting embrace' only
two or three words were exchanged. "Don't
forget me!" sobbed the girl. "Trust me!"
whispered the young man, and that was all.
Then they tore themselves apart, and Bernard
went hastily out. When the heavy front-door
closed upon him, a hitter pang shot through his
heart. He was drearily conscious that it was
for the last time.
ILL
IT was near the close of a' soft October
day, when Annie Gordon sat in the garden
quite alone. She was not drawing, or reading,
or even sewing, though some of the latter work
lay on the ground by her side;' but she sat
quite motionless on a low seat under a brilliant
crape-myrtle, with the air of listless languor
which is always so sad a sight-especially in
a young person. Her hands were loosely
clasped in her lap, and her eyes, all unheed-
ing the gorgeous roses blooming near by, and
scenting the air with their fragrance, were
turned to the western sky, where, instead of
the usual glories, a long, low bank of violet
cloud had received the sun. She did not even
turn when a step sounded on the path behind
her, and when, with his head bent forward,
I and his hands crossed behind his back, her
father slowly came into sight. He was ab-
sorbed in thought, evidently, and did not see
1her until he was close upon her. Then he
started and spoke almost sharply.
"What are you doing here, Annie? I
thought you said that you were going to see
Mrs. Holt 1"'
"I did go," said Annie, in a tone as list-
less as her attitude, "but Mrs. Elolt was not
at home. When I came back you were en-
gaged with Mr. Liddeil, so I did not disturb
you."
"You might have come in to see Mr. Lid-
dell. His visits are meant for you as much
as, or more than, they are for me."
"Are they?" said the girl, carelessly, and

then she added, "I should be sorry to think
so.,'
Her father frowned a little. "Why?" he
asked, shortly.
"Because - oh, papa, surely you know
why. It may be foolish to talk of such a
thing, but I have thought once or twice that
Mr. Liddell admired me-and if so, I would
rather that he never came."
"Do you mean to say that if he asked you
to marry him, you would refuse him?"
"I hope he will never ask me; butif he
did, I should be obliged to refuse him."
"And why?"
"0 papa, what a question!" cried the
girl, with her languor giving way at once, and
her bosom rent with sobs. "Because I don't
love him! Because I shall never, never love
any one but my poor, injured, outcast, ill-
treated Louis, Don't-don't mention him to
me again."
"I must mention him to you," said Mr.
Gordon, and as he said it he sat down by her
side. "You are not a child, Annie," he went
on. "You are old enough to know that many
things have to be done in this world which
are not what we 'would desire for ourselves or
others. I am old; I am broken in mind, in
health, and in fortune. What will become of
you when I die?"
"God will take care of me."
"God takes care of those who care for
themselves. God will not work a miracle to
put bread into your mouth or a roof over your
head. Many, as young and helpless as you,
He leaves every day to die of want and starva-
tion. ~My child, you must do something for
yourself-you must marry' the man who has
just been telling me' how much he loves
you."
"Papa I "-she gave a low cry.-" papa,
surely you will not ask me to do this!"
"You must do it!" said he, beginning to
grow excited. "Child, child, do you not see
that I cannot last much longer, and then-
what will become of you?"
"I would sew for my' daily bread, sooner
than marry one man when I love another!"
"Perhaps you will wait and marry the
thief who robbed me?"
"Papa, I don't deserve this!"
"Marry Liddell, then. He is a good fel-
low. Let me see you safely settled before I
die-let me tell him when he comes again that
he may take you."      -

Oh, no, no I
"This is nonsense," said Mr. Gordon.
"What more do you expect than he offers?
He may not be as fine a gentleman as ~ Gor-
don has a right to marry; but we are poor-!
so poor that our social equals 'do not recog-
nize our existence; and he is comparatively
wealthy. It is true that you would be the
richest heiress in the country, if my inven-
tions had not been stolen from me, but now-
Annie, there is no help for it. You must mar-
ry him."
For at least an hour the discussion went
on; but it came to no more definite point than
this. At last both father and daughter re-
turned to the house; and then, wearied and
exhausted, Annie went up to her own room.
She felt heartsick and hopeless at the prospect
before her. Not that her resolution was at all
shaken, or that she had any fear of being
eventually forced to marry Liddell; but she
knew that persistence was the most striking
trait of her father's character, and she also
knew that, for days and weeks and months to
come, she might expect to hear and to combat
just what she had heard and combated that
evening. There can hardly be a prospect more
dismaying than this, so it was no wonder that
she s~t down and covered her face with her
hands. When Bernard went away, she had
felt sure that he would soon clear himself; and
return to claim her, but now six months had
gone by, and the stain on his name was as
dark as ever, her father was as obstinately
persuaded of~ his guilt, and her own faith and
hope began to waver. "He has forgotten me!"
she thought. "Why should I not forget him,
and try to marry some one else?"' But she
had hardly asked the question before she
veered round as quickly as if some- one else
had proposed it. "Even if I never see him
again, I will be true to him-and true to my-
self!" she cried; then burst into tears, and
settled herself to sleep.
Her fears proved to be well founded. 'The
next day, and for many days after., Mr. Gor-
don rang the changes on Liddell's suit with
an obstinate persistence that 'would have
shaken any resolution less thoroughly ground-
ed than his daughter's. He did not storm, or
threaten, or command-none of these things
I were according to his nature-but he went
I over the 'same position again and again,' re-
peated the same statements, and made the
same predictions, with a patience that was


150                  BERNARD'S INVENTION.

both marvellous and exhausting. It told a
last, even on Annie. She was driven fros
point to point, until, from sheer inability F
continue the strife, she yielded thus far: sh
agreed that Liddell should be allowed to com~
to the house on trial, that there' was to bi
nothing of an engagement, but that she wa~
to see how she liked him, and, if she found ii
possible (but she did not fail to protest her
that she was sure she never would find it pos
sible), she might enter into an engagement al
the end of six months. On this anomalous
sort of footing, therefore, the master-ma.
chinist was received in the Gordon household
and, since he had sense enough to appreciate
the point he ~ad gained, and tact enough to
use his advantage well, he soon became a
daily visitor, for was it long before he per-
ceived that not only Mi~. Gordon, but Annie
herseW welcomed him 'with pleasure.
Matters went on in this way until Christ-
mas came. The gayety of the season-and
W-,--- was very gay-sent not even an echo
into the dark old house where the inventor
and his daughter lived, and yet in all W-
there was not a fairer face than Annie Gor-
don's, as she leaned against one of the high,
narrow windows on Christtnas evening, dressed
in her best, with a spray of holly in her hair,
watching listlessly the carriages that dashed
by, and the pedestrians that filled the streets.
Liddell had dined with them, and his present
-one of the costly gift-books of the season-
lay in her lap, but she hardly noticed it. Her
languid eyes were on the street, when sudden-
ly something occurred that took all the lan-
guor out of them. A. figure came in sight, a
face looked up at her, and she knew-she
would have known in a thousand-Louis Ber-
nard I There was no time for a word, or even
a gesture, on either side. There was only
time for a start, a gasp, a long, hungry look,
and all was over. The young man passed on,
and, the girl, turning from the window, came
and sat down by the fire. Liddeil and her
father were deep in plans of machinery-it
was Mr. Gordon's only mode of recreation-
and they paid little attention to her, so she
leaned back in a corner quite silent, and the
stream of mechanical talk flowed past her un-
heeded. She caught a fragment of it now
and then, but it bore little significance to her
ear. She only knew that there was some
point at issue between her father and the ma-
chinist-some point there seemed no definite

t mode of settling-and that Liddell proposed
a to refer to some book of designs he had.
a "I will send it over to-morrow," he said.
a "You can examine it atyour leisure, and per-
a haps Miss Annie will be good enough to take
care of it for me. It is a very valuable book,
and reliable, too. You will find this idea of
the cylinder developed there in just the way I
have' described. It was patented by Verdot in
* '49."
"I don't care whom it was patented by, it
might be improved," said Mr. Gordon; and
* so the discussion went on, until Liddell ended
it by asking Annie to sing. She complied at
once; and, after a reasonable number of songs,
he rose to go. He had sufficient discretion
not to obtrude the lover-like part of his r6le,
and not to pay ~long visits; and his reward
was Annie's constantly-increasing kindness.
To-night she was so cold, absent and almost
unapproachable, that he thought he must
have offended her, for, of course, he could not
know that it was the mere sight of Bernard
that had turned her heart against him.
"0 my poor love I" she was saying to her-
self all the time, even when he came up to
shake hands and bid her good-night.
"Will you take care of my book?" he
said, again, with a sort of wistful look in her
face. "I should be very glad if you would,
and if-and if you would make one of your
beautiful drawings for me of Plate XL.? I
want it for constant use, and I had rather
havia one of your drawings than the finest en-
graving in the world. Will you do it for me?"
"Your taste is very bad, to prefer my
drawing to an engraving," said Annie, grave-
ly. "But, of course, I will do it for you if
you want it. I have nothing else to do."
"Thank you, and good-night."
She gave him her hand and said good.
night; but it was very' coldly, and he went
away chilled, thinking almost that he would
never succeed in winning her. As for Annie,
she went up-stairs and cried for an hour or
two before she sank to sleep. Weeping had
latterly become quite a favorite amusement
of hers, and the effect was any thing but bene-
ficial to her personal appearance.
The next day the book came, and, after
her father had finished examiningit, he hand-
ed it over to her keeping. It was a volume
of mechanical designs, not very interesting to
her; but she took it to a window, and began
making preparations for copying Plate XL.

I

ii

She copied for some time, then grew tired,
and, leaning her elbows on the table, care-
lessly turned over the leaves. As she did so,
a piece of paper fluttered out from between
two of the pages, and fell to the floor. She
stooped, picked it up, and was returning it to
the book, when something about it attracted
her attention. It was merely an ordinary
piece of drawing-paper, on which was traced
the ~ough outline of. a design. But the paper
itself struck her as familiar. She had seen,
she had handled it, she felt sure; and, on look-
ing more closely, she found she was right, for
in the corner her own private mark-a cu-
riously-interlaced monogram of her name-
was written with, ink. It was a sheet of her
own paper, and had been taken from her own
portfolio. This, which seemed at first sight a
slight-enough mystery, puzzled her exceed-
ingly. In consequence of her father's sus-
picious fears, she always kept her portfolio
carefully put away; and, as far as her own
knowledge extended, no one, not even Ber-
nard, had ever been permitted to examine it.
How, then, had this paper, with her own mark
upon it, been extracted therefrom? She
looked at the design. That was certainly not
of her drawing. She shook her head, and was
about toput down the paper and dismiss the
subject with. a "Very curious!" when a few
faint, half-effaced lines on the back attracted
her eye. She looked at these for a moment
with her brows bent, then suddenly rose,
pushed back the table, anti went nearer to the
light. Even this, however, was not sufficient
for what she wished to decipher, and she
hastily took up a magnifying-glass. By the
aid of this, she soon discerned that a design
on the back of the paper had been carefully
rubbed out, leaving only a few lines visible.
These few lines, however, were to her of im-
mense significance, for they showed her that
the effaced drawing had been her own, and
that it had been one of the designs of her fa-
ther's invention.
At this point her breath came fast, her
hands trembled, her color varied evcry instant,
and, if any one had been looking on, be would
certainly have thought her beside herself with
excitement. Still, she controlled this excite-
ment, and, though she was tingling in every
nerve with the importance of the discovery
just made, went steadily on to follow it up as
well as she could Thanks to the magnifying-
glass, ~he soon found what she was now espe-

cially in search of-a number in the corner of
the sheet. When this was deciphered, she
laid the paper down and left the room, return-
ing in an instant with her portfolio. Now it
chanced that, having been trained by a man,
she had much of masculine precision about
her, and in the different pockets of this re-
ceptacle were carefully numbered and filed
away, in their proper order of date, the designs
she had made for the now useless invention.
Owing to the number she had just deciphered
on the effaced drawing, she knew exactly where
to look for the information needed to verify
her suspicions. Opening the portfolio with
qnivering fingers, she drew forth the contents
of a certain pocket, and ran over the num-
bers. For three or four sheets, all was regn.
lar and in order; then, suddenly, she stopped,
and again caught her breath. There was a
break. Hastily she went on to the end and
then came back, looked again, examined again,
'and finally raised her face with a half4right.
ened assurance on it-three sheets were missiny!
and one of Chose 8keets she held in her hand.
For a moment the conviction almost stunned
her. Mr. Gordon was right, then! The idea
~had been stolen. Up to this time she had be.
lived with ]~ernard that it was a singular but
entirely accidentalcoincidence of thought. Now
she knew it had been a robbery. But a rob-
bery made by whom ~ She was too young and
inexperienced to be able to answer this ques-
tion. Those who have never known treachery
are slow to suspect, and slower yet to believe
it. The stars might have fallen before she
would have creditedBernard's guilt, and she
was almost as unwilling to attach even a mo-
ment's suspicion to Liddell. Yet, plainly, the
matter lay between those two. No one else
had even possible access to her portfolio, and
the possession of that sheet, the effaced de-
sign, the whole array of circumstances, all
seemed to point-
She paused and sat down, faint and shud-
dering. Treachery seemed to come so near,
to touch her so closely, when it was brought
home in this way to amsn~ whom she had liked,
respected, trusted, almost promised to marry I
It was all a hideous seeming; it could not be,
she cried out-yet, even as she exclaimed
thus, there came to her a memory which would
not be put asido~ She remembered a certain
evening in the early spring, when she had been
drawing in the arbor, how Bernard had come
in upon her, and she carelessly left her port..

BERNARD'S INVENTION.                  151

150

151


152                  BERNARD'S INVENTION.

1'

I-

folio on the table and strolled with him to th
other end of the garden. She remembered
that, when she came into the house, her Lathe
told her that Liddell had been sent to th
arbor by him, but failed to find her, and shi
also remembered-good Heavens, how clear
lyl-that, on opening her portfolio, she ha~
found several things strangely out of place
though she never once thought of looking a
the designs. What if this meant-what if F
proved- But heye the full nature of the dis
cover came over her so strongly that, but fo
the recollection of Bernard, she would hav(
thrust away the tell-tale paper, and nevei
thought again of the dark suspicion it had
brought forth. As it was, however, she could
not do this. His face, as she had seen it only
the evening before, rose up before her, and
seemed bidding her clear his name. He could
do nothing for himself; but, if indeed she held
the means to prove his innocence, should she
fail to use it? IC Liddell was guilty, surely
his double treachery-treachery to Bernard,
as well as to her father-deserved to suffer
the penalty of detection; and, if he was inno-
cent, an explanation could not harm him. At
all risks, she was determined to go on-to fol-
low the path thus unexpectedly opened for
her. Whhout giving herself time to think, she
seized a pen and wrote a short note-the first
in eight long months-to Bernard:
"Dz4ui Louis: Forgive me that I write to
you. I only do so, because I have made a dis.
cover which, it seems to me, you ought to
know, and which may be of importance to
you. What it is, you shall hear when we meet.
I must, however, ask one question. Am I right
in supposing that Mr. Liddell was the original
possessor of the invention which you patented,
and that it was he who brought the design to
you? If so, do not hesitate to come here this
afternoon, and bring all his oi~iginal draughts
with you. Yours ever,
"ANNIE GonnoN."
'~ About foui~ o'clock, that afternoon, there
was a knock at Mr. Gordon's door, and, when
Annie flew down from an ambuscade on the
staircase and opened it, she stood face to face
with Bernard. The young man stepped with-
in the passage without a word, and the next
moment would have taken the pretty porteress
into his arms, if she had not drawn away, put
tier finger to her lips, and beckoned him in

e the direction of a certain odd little room which
I no one but herself ever invaded. Once safely
r inside this sanctuary, she turned and held out
s her hands, saying:
"0 Louis, you cannot tell how glad I am
- toseeyouagain!"
"And I you, my darling!" said Louis,
warmly. But, after a minute, he went on more
gravely: '~ 1 don't like this, Annie. I did not
ku~w that I was to come here clandestinely.
- I thought I was summoned openly."
"And so you are, dear love," said Annie,
eagerly; "only have a minute's patience. I
want you to myself for a little while-I want
to tell you everything, and then, if you say
I so, I will take you to papa. Louis-answer
me the question I asked in my note. Was it
Mr. Liddell who brought you that invention ~"
She came close to him, and asked the ques-
tion breathlessly, her eyes full of excitement,
and her voice fairly quivering. She felt how
much depended on his answer, how one word
might overthrow all her tower of fancied
proof; and she trembled even while she waited
eagerly to hear that answer. After a moment
it came-very slowly:
"I cannot answer that question, Annie,
until I know why you ask it."
"Tell me, then, if you have ever suspected
that this man-whoever he was-might really
have stolen the invention, and been playing
you false?"
Bernard looked disturbed, and tumbled
his hair about in a way she well remembered
before he answered.
"It is hard to suspect a man," he said, at
last; "and I have been the more loath to do
it, since I myself have tasted the bitterness
of undeserved suspicion. But, since you ask
the question, I must confess that doubts have
come to me, doubts that, despite myself; have
grown stronger since-"
He stopped abruptly, and Annie finished
the sentence for him.
"Since you heard that I was to marry Mr.
Liddell. Oh, don't start! It was not so-I*
am sure that I neverwould have done it-but
that is what you meant, and now I know that
he was the man. Stop, don't say any thing,
Louis.-Look at this."
She put the drawing and the magnifying-
glass into his hand, telling him, at the same
time, how she had obtained the former. His
eager astonishment was even greater than she
had expected. It fairly startled her, as he

I.

f

152

1


@3
a
u
@3

turned, full of breathless impatience, and bade
her tell him all-every thing. Necessarily, it
did not take her long to do this, since the
"every thing" was in itself very little. Then
he caught her in his arms and kissed her as he
kissed her on that April day when he came
upon her with the news of his good fortune.
"You have saved me?" he cried, "You
have given me the evidence I could never have
gained for myself; you have cleared my name,
and made me a free man once more. 0 Annie,
Annie, how can I ev~er love you enough?"
"It is true, then?" she cried. "Was it
indeed he? 0 Louis, I can hardly believe it!
Oh, dear love, how could he be so wicked?"
"I have no doubt it was principally be-
cauSe he wanted to take y~u from me," said
the young man, all in a glo~v. " But, however
that may be, it was Liddell himself and no
other, who brought me this invention as his
own. See, Annie, I have done as you bade
me-I have brought his original draughts, and
we will show them, and this effaced drawing,
to your father. Do you think be will believe
me then?"
"Heaven only knows-but we will go and
see."
Without giving their courage time to ebb,
they gathered together the papers and crossed
the passage to Mr. Gordon's room. When
Annie knocked, her father's voice bade her
"Come in," and, when she opened the door,
she found, to her consternation-for she had
neither planned nor wished any thing half so
dramatic-that Liddell was with him.
There was a moment's pause~on both sides
-a pause of surprised and awkward uncer-
tainty-before Mr. Gordon rose and addressed
his daughter, his face flushing with anger, and
his voice trembling with indignation.
"What is the meaning of this, Annie?
how dare you insult me by bringing that-
that thief into my presence?"
Now Annie had not meant to speair-t'nat
was to have been Bernard's part-but this
address naturally roused her, and, before the
former could interfere, she had answered:
"Mr. Bernard is here at my request, papa.
He wished to answer the charge whicl~ you
made against him eight months ago. It is
now in his power to prove his innocence."
"Let him take the proofs of it elsewhere,
then," said her father, coldly. "I have no in-
terest in him or in them."
"What! you refuse to hear him?"

"Yes, I refuse to hear him. I have no
desire to be duped by him again. I tell you
what I told you eight months ago-choose
between him and me. If you take him you
lose me-that is all.-Mr. Liddell, shall we go
on now with our business?"
Annie looked hopelessly at Bernard, but
Bernard did not return the glaiice. On the
contrary, he stepped quietly forward, and laid
his papers on the table.
"Since you refuse to receive any proofs
of my innocence,~t he said, addressing Mr.
Gordon, with calm dignity, "I must ask you
to examine these evidences of another man's
guilt. You may remember that I spoke of a
person from whom I received the original in.-
vention. In tbese papers you will find suffi.
cient proof where he obtained it2'
Mr. Gordon looked up. Apparently he
was about to answer as he had done before,
but something in the steady eyes of Bernard
changed his purpose. He extended his hand
and took the papers-hesitated a moment, and
laid them down.
"It is quite useless to bring me proofs
against a man whose name I am not to know,"
he said, frigidly. "He may be merely an ab-
straction, invented to shield yourself."
"You are mistaken," said Bernard, quiet-
ly. "This man is no abstraction. He not
only lives, but you know him intimately. In
robbing you, he betrayed not only his own
honor, but your friendship. Sir, examine
these papers, and, when you have examined
them, I will refer you to Mr. Liddell for the
name of their author."
Again there was a pause-a pause in which
all of the four might have heard the beating
of their own hearts; then, not quite unex-
pectedly, Mr. Gordon broke forth, viQlently:
"So, you come here to clear yourself by
insulting my friend under my own roof?
There is the door, sir I Never let me see
your face in this house again! If I had ever
doubted your guilt, I should be sure of it
now."
"rapa," cried Annie, suddenly springing
forward, "you must-you shall hear him!
This is more than unjust-it is outrageous !-
it is what you have no right to do! As for
Mr. Liddell, I dare him to look me in the face,
and say that he is innocent! I dare bim to
deny that he took three designs of the inven-
tion from my portfolio, and that this is one
of them!"

U;
U'
@3
'@3
0
0
a)
'5
Cs
'5
0
'5

BERNARD'S INVENTION.

153


154

BERNARD'S INVENTION.

She laid her hand, as she spoke, on the
erased drawing, and turned like a tragedy.
queen upon the trembling man, who was
forced to clutch a corner of the table, to save
himself from falling. In exactly the same
spot where Bernard. had stood eight months
before, when Mr. Gordon accused and con-
demned him, the really guilty man stood now,
and strove in vain to steady himself-atrove
in vain to speak. Mr. Gordon was about to
answer his daughter as he had already an.
swered Bernard, when his eye followed hers,
and, falling on Liddell, he stood confounded,
and could not utter a word. Indeed, he
gasped for breath, and felt for a moment as
if the solid earth was sliding from beneath his
feet. He was glad, just then, that Bernard
placed a chair, and said, in something of his
old voice, "Sit down, sir." Unconsciously he
sat down, and, as he did so, Liddell looked up
and spoke-hoarsely and with effort:
"You need not carry the thing any fur-
ther, Bernard; I admit your proofs, and that
is an end of the matter. I have no motive
for concealment now. Mr. Gordon might be-
lieve me, but she "-he nodded toward Annie,
but did not look at her-" is all on your side.
I don't mind saying that I did it to win her

from you, and, of course, I don't care about
putting a bold face on it after-after what
she has said. It was a dishonorabid thing, I
suppose; but it may be some excuse to say
that I cared nothing about the money. I did
it simply to get rid of you, ~ndi think I would
do it over again, with any hope of success.
You may as well throw those papers into the
fire, and you need not trouble yourself to pay
any more of the profits to my account. I
have touched my last dollar of the money;
and the only regret I have in the affair, is-
that this is all my fault."
With that, he turned and left the room
-not one of the three uttering 'a word. Mr.
Gordon was too much aghast; Annie was too
full of indignation; and Bernard, who was
now master of the situation' felt too much
contempt. So he went out in silence-an ob-
ject more fit for pity than scorn; and, when
the trio left behind looked at each other, they
forgot him and all that he had caused them to
suffer, in their sudden realization of happi-
ness-happiness that had come as a free,
bounteous gift from the same gracious Hand
that can scatter the darkest clouds in a mo-
ment, and bring forth the golden sunlight un-
dimmed.

SH E ENED.

4'

*       A~JThllTON8' IJIBRARY                       OF AMERICAN                    FIC!10R3
*** Appletons' Library of American Fiction consists of select novels by eminent authors, pub-
lished in neat octavo volumes, for popular circulation, and usually accompanied with illustrations.
I * Valerie Aylmer. 8vo. Paper. Price, $1.00; cloth, $1.50.
"One of the best and most readable novels of the season."-Pklladelphla Poet.
"The story is of marked and sustained interest."-6~klcaqo Journal.
"The author Is one of the rising and brilliant lights of American literatnre."-Porlland Argue.
"The story is very Interesting, and admirably written."-Charleston Courier.
2. The Lady of the Ice. By J~txEs Dn MILLE. With fllustrations. 8vo. Paper.
Price, 45 cents.
'and is a capital summer-book-bright, dashing, and full of amusing adventure. It has all the vivacity
dash that made the author's former novels so distinguished. Mr. De Mule unites humorous with stirring
description more successfully, perhaps, than any other American writer; he is always bright, vivid, @amatic,
picturesque, and entertaining.
3. Morton House. By the Author of "Valerie Aylmer." With Illustrations. 8vo
Paper. Price, $1.00; cloth, $1.50.
"For the sake of our literature we trust that the author will not pause in her new career, which certainly
opens with the bravest promise."-Ckrietlam Union.
"There Is intense power In many of the scenes."-N~u' York Evening Mail.
"Marked by great force and originaiity."-Pkilade~pkia Age. -
:: Interesting from beginning to end."-Ahleetlc Magazine
It       very         we have read an American novel of any thing like equal merit."-Pi'dladelplelc
1'reee.
4. Righted at Last. A NOVEL. With Illustrations. Svo. Paper. Price, $1.00;
cloth, $1.50.
"Intensely Interesting from beginning to end."-St. Louis Rvpul'lican.
"An inter eating story of New England llfe."-Porttand Transcript.
"Her book is more than readable - in many parts It is fascinating."-Neus Haven Courier.
"Never devoid of interest."~ATasAville Union.
5. Mabel Lee. By the Author of "Morton House" and "Valerie Aylmer." With filus.
rations. Svo. Paper. Price, $1.00; cloth, $1.50.
"A story of absorbing interest."-St. Louis Repudlcan.
"A tale of vivid hiterest- full of natural, striking characterization."-Banner of Ike ,S'outle.
"The sto              me itt"N          oneE
"A rjr is one ofthrlil ~ nerea.-ew Y Xp7e58.
capital picturee of Southern character and society."-Boston Gazette.
"No Amencan author of to-day charms us so much."-Porlland Argue.
6. Doctor Vandyke. A NOVEL. By JOHN ESTEN Cooirz~. With Illustrations. One
voL, 8vo. Paper, '75 cents; cloth, $1.25.
"John Eaten Cooke baa made us again his debtor by the excelicut story of 'Doctor Vandyke.' "-Home
Journal.
"Mr. Cooke delights to recall the old days of Virginia's colonial featnres."-Llterary World.
"This is a well-conceived story of colonial life in Virginia."-Charleeton News.
7. Ebb-Tide. A NovEL. By CEnISTIAN REID. Author of "Valerie Aylmer," "Morton
House," etc.
"'Ebb-Tide' Is a story of power and pathos, and will be much ad.nired."-Boston Commonwealtk.
"Scenes and Incidents portrayed with vividness and sklil."-Bcston Traveller.
"The plot is interesting and well developed, and the style is both spirited and clear."-Boston Gazettes
8. An Open Question.
-'It is a very lively and pleasant book, and is profusely illustrated."-Troy Budget.
"There is enough of adventure in this tale to suffice for three or four ordinary works."-Pldla. Inquirer.
"It isa spicy, readable book."-Toledo Commercial.
"Of all the novels of this versatile writer, this can claim the right of predminence."-Inler- Ocean.
9. Spicy. A. NOVEL. By Mrs. MARTHA J. Lsaen. Bvo. Ilius. Paper, $1.00; cloth, $1.50.
"This story Is exceedingly entertaining and highly creditable to the author."-Golden Age.
"An exceptional refinement pervades this story, plot, incidents, and personages."-Pkiladelplda Age.
"It is, emphatically, a spicy noveh"-Hampsksre Gazette.
IO* Lakeville; or, Substance and Shadow. ByM~nvHw~v.
"One of the best and most elaborate novels of the season."-Phlladelpkla Aqe.
"A very entertaining story, with several remarkably well-drawn characters.C~Boston Giolie.
"It is written by the daughter of the eminent portralt-palnter."-Cklcago Post.
I I * Nina's Atonement. 'A Novel. By CHRIsTIAx REID. With Illustrations.
Price, '75 dnnts.
Either of the above mailed, poet-paid, to any part of the V)zited States, on receipt of price.
D. APPLETON &amp; CO., Publishers, 549 &amp; 551 Broadway, N. Y.


* The Masterpieces of Fiction at a Marvel of Cheapness.
J. FENIMORE COOPER'S NOVELS.
NEVV AND CHEAP EDITION.
"77~e enduring monuments of Fewimore Cooper are his 'wos*s. While the love of country continues topre-
vail, his memory 'will exist in the hearts of the people. hI) truly patriotic and American throughout, they
shouictjlnd place in every American's iibrary."-D A.NIEL WEBsTER.
The undersigned have commenced the publication of a new LInEAllY EDiTION or CooPER's lilovzis, well printed,
and bound In handsome style. The volumes will be Issued rapidly, In the following order:
*1. Tam Spy.                   12. Tsn BRAVO.                  23. HOMEwARD IIOTTND.
*2. Tam Pnov.                  13. MERCEDES or CASTILE.        24. Roam AS Founn.
"3. Rim RovER.                 14. Tam Two ADMIRALS.          25. HEIDENHAVER.
*4 Tam DERESLAYER.             15. AFLOAT AND ASHORE.          26. Tam HEADSHAN.
*5 Tam PATHFINDER.             16, Miacs WALLINOFORD.         2L JAcK TIER.
"6 Tam LAm or yam MonicANs.   *~7 WING AND WING.              28. Tam SEA LIONS.
"7 Tam PlomiaaS.               18. OAR OPENINGS.              29. WWSDOTTH.
*8. Tam PRAIRIE.               19. SATANSTOR.                 80. Tam MONIRINS.
9. LIONEL LINCOLN.             20.  li'HE CHAIN.EEANEIL       SI. PaneAuTxou.
10. WINT OF WISH-TON-WISH.     21. Tam RED-SKIEs.             82. WAYs OF TIlE HOUR.
*11. Tam WATER-WITCH.           22. ~fam CRATER.
lImo Brown Cloth, gilt side and back, $1.50 per volume. Those volumes marked * are issued in Svo, Paper, with
sight Illustrations byDarley, '15 cents; Cloth, $1.25. "Leather-Stocking" Tales, five volumes in one, Cloth, $4.00.
A NEW AND CHEAP EIJJTION OF
MARRYAT'S POPULAR NOVELS,
At Fifty Cents per Volume. Handsomely printed, from large, clear type, on good paper, and of convenient
size. I2mo. With an illustrated papercover. The whole to consist of'
* 1. MIdshipman Easy.             5. King's Own.                 9. The Peacher.
2. Peter Sim Ic.                 El. .Japhet in Search of a Father. 10. The Phantom Ship.
15. Jacob Fail~hfiuI.           2~ Newton Forster.             11. Snai-leyow.
4. Naval Officer.              1 5. Pacha or Many Tale..       12. Percival Keene.
THE WAVERLEY NOVELS,'
At the uniform price of twenty-eve cents per volume, each volume illustrated with an engraved frontispiece.
and bound with an Illuminated tartan cover. Complete irs 25 volumes, as follows:
1. Waverley.                      9. Bride of Lammermoor.     1 15. iledganatlet.
2. Ivenhoc.                      19. Heart of Midlothian.     I 19. The Betrothed, and IIJ~ f.
8. Kenilworth.                   11. The Monastery.           I     land Widow.
4. t*uy Jiannering.              18. The Abbot.               I 20. The Talisman.
5. An  nary.                     18. The Pirate.              I 21. Woodstock.
4. Itoh Koy.                     14. Fortunes of Nigel.         22. Fair Maid. of Perth.
7. Old Mortality.                15. Peverll of the Peak.     1 211. Anne of Ocierstein.
8. The Black Dwarf, and A Le-    18. Quentin Durward.           24. Count Robert of Paris.
goad of Montrose.          17. St. Henna's Well.           25. The Surgeon's Daughter.
For SIX DOLLARS we will semi by mail prepaid, the entire set of WAvERIRY NOvELS, and a copy of a
new Steel- late Portrait of Sir Waiter Scott, suitable for framing.
For TEN DOLLARS we will send by mail,~r~paid, a set of DICKENS (in uniform style), 18 volumes, and
WAYERLEY, 25 volumes. The cheapest Ten Dollars' worlh to be found in the whole range of Literature.
Forty-three volumes for ten dollars I
WORKS OP CHARLES DICKENS,.
Handsomely printed from clear type, on good paper, and of convenient size. Now complete in 18 volumes.
at the annexed prIces:
OLIvER TwIsT...............172 pp.. - .25 ets. BLEAK housE...............340 pp.-. 35 cts.
AMEmOAN NOTES.............104~. ... .15 " LITTLE DORRIT...................330" ... .35
DORREY &amp; SON...............856" ....35 " PIORWICK PAPERS....326" ... .35 "
3IARTIN CIIUEELRWIT.............342" .. - .35 " D&amp;vn COPPERFIELD..............351" - . ..35 "
Ouis MUTUAL FRIEND..........330" .. ..35 " BARNARY RUDGE..............~257" . - ..30 "
ChsmsrasAs STORIES...........162" ... .25 " OLD CuRIosITY SHOP....221 " .. .30
TALE or Two CITIEs............144" - . - .20 "  SERTOHES..................196" ... .25 "              4
HAiir. TIMES, AND ADDITIONAL                   GREAT EXPECTATIONS....184" ... .25
CHRISTm&amp;s STORIES........200" - . - .25 " UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, rjrc. . - .300" - .. .35 "
NICHOLAS N.CKLHRY..............840" ... .35 " EDWIN DROOD...............103" ..
Any volume mailed, postfree, on receipt of price.
On receipt of tS.00 we will mail to nay address, post-paid, the entire works of Charles Dickens, and also
a Steel-plate Portrait of Dickens, sultabin for framing.

D. APPLETON &amp; CO., Publishers, New York.


  
             
         
       
   
