
    ----CITATION----
        Wise, Isaac Mayer, (1819-1900). The First of the Maccabees .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8354
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The first of the Maccabees 
            
               THE FIRST
OF
Te
THE' MACUABEES.

33s Isae MeE              WiM.   e,
Author of " The Last Struggle of the Nation," " The Combat of the
People," " The Shoemaker's Family," &amp;c., &amp;c.

CINGININATI, OHIO;
Published by BLoc &amp; Co., OI'oe of The Israelite, No. 32 Sixth Street-
1.8_j t_.


l.'

,                                                                                 a

r               XX

i tered in accordance with the Act of Congress, in the year 1860,.
BY    I'S A AC M. W I SE,,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and fo:
Southern District of Ohio.

IX
w II5fs

' l"1F  Y +  "+sA y"   .t,_i; 7 !t

"I,,""V

CJ 4PTE R     I.    Y
UE    ASM o NAN'  S liO ME
.Awake, awake! Jtdah,, Ay beloved son I
Again thesun rises over the mountains of
Israel, and the daughter of, Zion still, lies in
chains." So Miriam,'the wife of Matathia,
woke all Ier sons every 'morning witih.the
rising of theun.- Judah rose and beating
his breastwith his, right  and he invoked
the Deity to hear:again hisvow.   If .Ifor-
get; thee, 0 Jerusalem, may my right ;hand,
forget me;" said he. "Mere I again vow
not to taste of the cup, of joy until shame
and subjectiQn be banished from thehousQ
of Israel."  Then he clasped his -sword
and Mswungit'over his head: " AgainIen-
secrate this, sword to' the liberty and inde-
pendence of my people,to avenge Israel on
its atrocious'enemies."j
The hoary priest Matathia and his five
sons,,repeated this vow every morning ever,
after Antioehus' Epiphanes,-lthe=despot o
Syria, attempted to ekterninate the religion
and nationality of Israel, and committedthe,
most'intolerable atrocities'to:achieve a coin
plete victory over the brave and bole defer-
ders of Israel's heritage.  The victory of
the king was almost complete in Jerusalem
and other large .cities, whereSyrian, garrik
sons crushed everythoughtof ndependence,
i' its ;vry germ, and- itIHelenistic party,
rich and mighty, among the hebrews them
selves-thehighpriest and: 'the other.high
dignitaries included; favored and supported
the perniciouspolicy. of-Antiohus and his,
agent. The patriots sought refuge on the
moutains, in-theeaves atid crevices, and
swore to avenge their people and regain
their rights. Modain,"the evidencee 6f Mat-
athia, wason the ountains, where devout'
iatr otia i'azealoits love  ofliberty and
in a endence, nd an-indestrct ible°attaeh=
ft to the national laws, Seligion and
Ightsofis eel;inpired every heart t brave
ri,t  e  e {manlya  stoheriosum' andefr
cit ,e y 8r; ea  t  e tsof  tor'niv
w 4 :n:..11P  J kY-r  ' ,  i  +,"rr  'te
ne    : l       etni        ei    e
.  ," d. S~ -c;  t $'  x"R  ?' rs ;. J Y a"  r"(.  =',     ii,  a '" ,   ;, ' i, . ;, r

strong places, and were not ,onl r
their aeves, but, ,supporte by  e  en
ti ir number was formid4blj w dI he .
triots were few! poor,wityt o rg nisation
arms orleader, and pressed intothe-1
villages on themountains
"-Hear me, fatheriMatathia -that-Go4
hear thee, whenthou ;alles  on
phn Gaddis, one' of Matathi   0 n
covered with dut entered the roe4-where
the family was assembled  "  traypsledj
night and braved every dangerto    the
melancholy ac6unt to thy ear, of ihat.
eyes have seen and years have hyd.--
Woe aid sore affliction torments  Yu
nay eyesight is dimmed ythXe arnue whi h
the enemy made among my eopl in .ern
salem; in my ear, in my heart etid r ho
the shrieks offdespair, the groans of t
dying, the' desperate cries nof  e
.women and children, whom theng e      ha
t lasUu.,.n7 rg7
slain, trampled upon      mired'ed
into slivery, crushed under the haof1 othe
horses  Theblood, thi            i  of
my people eoimcsons the lnnes o6 ruea
the sword of a savage foe raded thei-ei O
out respect for the aged aund withoutregaM
for the feeble and defeaceless; '  y,-aes
-have seen it'ny ears have heardit:  or
live to lament over my people afnd to a nei
,is wrongs. Vengeance, fathprada
Vengeance, bloody yengeance for.ny utre
geoeple."
this outburst of "excited passioti6'eit1'
heavily on every, heart. N'oie under'tood
fully what John 'said, still none app $ r
willing to question'him.  iatathia'hidt
was speechless for a moinent; but theien be
extended' his right hand to his
'grasped  it convulsively.  "Vengeac4e
God's;"'said the old man solemhly
will avenge the blood of his serv   i
promised us. But ten me, my
thou uow4es  I   d414not Anr          -
O                                 K f i

, }
,                  ,
_

,

T, ff


Truj FLRBT,OP

T n       ",,wdOCANB$ E E'.

oftthe law, desecrated the sacred shrines, his gods, dedicated the temple to Jupiter
prohibited the obse ;tig  of tpadiyji  ly piugjgan   oclgingin the city, Who
laws, threatening4&amp;th hahneaofithe lkid nve  bsr e-the Sebbath circumcises his,
With the penalty of death, and erected altars children 'reads the Law or practices itshall
to the Greek gods, wherever he sojourned. be killed without mercy."
l   ht d 1  estdtetion mdrove rany to'apos  "Enough,'enough, mysei" the old man
t'a. hefaithtilfled ihito the mountains, exclaimed, covering his eyes with his hands-
o ,to Jie 4,4lein, idithose who coudot  "Thoti hast nbt heard theworst yet, my
Cape.pdrbr d    death to fithlessness-- father, John continued  "Hear the whole
Sheke $e1anici6llytidings resa6d cTrusa ehroniele of atrocities, that thou priest furl
em, Aery of indignfaonisunded through oiis°vengeance'as I'-do. Hear the last and
the air, a dz$tifi' people arned toresistnce. worst; hoary Matathia, hear it son of Aaron,
, ;6llonius tlahe of d ofa laredivision of priest of the Lord of hosts; Israel' high.
hiktrea  arrie iafo b th  ils  o fJeruptiost beti ayed his people arid desei ed hip
s ni; the gates Werefcosed before hin.-: God; he treacherouslydelivered-the ft-iots7
Naimenr esd wereternly mbrad, his yoff the innodent'women and childtei into the
like      inalgntiy refused.   Through Iihands of Apollonius; Menelaus knew the
M    us, the haghpriest, he finally proisig. intentions of A ollonius, and'. he is now
ed t e  adatc'f thedgsliold be revo highpriest of the temple of Jupiter Olympi
ked;th  ynaegues rebuilt ,the heathen al as in Jerusalem."
S r.                   'Matathia moaned inarticulate sounds:-
removed, and fii freedom of worship  .
n . . is-lips- quivered, his Whole' frame shook.--
,n ed, if -the  gates of ;the city beopnd-
5      i       to      e   y    o      An awful silence ensued;whieh lasted seve
fore him."Th e people consented m order .
ral minutes. None had the courage'to-speak
to maake n end to the misery that befel our
'_ 'n endbefore the. -father -did who was~dunib With
brethren in the country. The gates were .
aheit    cuy       T      t'e     grief. Jonathan Aphus the youngest son of
openedon Sabbath day.Curious and in-         .a
o;eedn    abbatMatathiaostthe mastery over himself. -JHe
qtusjhive, men, women and children assem-
l o e  c ,'cried, passionately,  John, brother-of my
fled to yitness- the spectacle, and gaze on ..
gto a onoheart, thou- must 'be ;mistaken  :Menelaus
heaglaigarmnsof the foe. Satan Apollo-                             -   -.
:; s    ia ;ed hs'vie     . irg , pge ' . can not, dare not be such a satanic .villain
ku  omne    lsvile: hirehings to .charge'        nt
; , ' n t e.,enie   ''i know lie  an ot, he dare-not be'
into the imofensive crowd, and-Lord God,          s  o
hwc°spk           Pt-      Yet he is,- the old man roared forth.
4hate6441ll'I says! how 'can I speak l bath--. - - .
er ! bother 1{Bi-others I coriae 'One, come all!we  ing1rr th'for'hisggltl
r  r Brothers!coueoncome   !frame appealed to grow fast by the4excite-
let Ps cry woe and horror, that the mount
f            T      t       menxt under;w iuchberlabored. iJonathan,
s she an     he rocks be rent sundr I, know thy predilections for the'-house of
Let us invoke the thunder to proclaim '                                -
et u. t            . ue  to -  caiMenelaus, yet'.I "declare .he is a traitor, a
uproar and retbellion throughout nature's : villa  ea
.,                              villain; ua re egade,? a -urse,,spph Israel. -
domain! Let us ,conjure the lions'of the   ' rent his garments iii iolent agitation,
forest to assist us; the, serpents of the des and exclaimed: "So  tear asunder every
e4to support ns the earthquake to shake bond of friendship, soI.crush .every tie of
o4 he sataicfiend from our Jarl ! Patber love binding me o the treacherous 'house of
atathi , the sword! give ne th} sword;I Menelaus!."-
will fight and dip I can live no onger; 1  "Hold 'os, my father,-for God's sake
ee   o niore what my Eyes haves een in cntinue nct;" Jonathan implored.  "My
: er jalem  Jwill hearno more what 1 have brother .might-be mistaken. Hemight have
',"been caught in-the}slanderer' net                                    o
e1 tesgrmio tadlikJob dern not, i     father, ht thou be nt c n
" " t"6ting inth dust.     ' Notv athe1 do6ned."
cnine   'Weep            Aay failhe   eo~     atthiah bae
it1i h~ hear yet .more. Apoll nius'ilt di   tI  "e'hs      a'iad       tvii-
~~ dthem le,              fr~l lfdhu- lui1  a v eoni ~1i~       h~~i

L 4 +

1V.

" My God.hear it not, my venerable fath-
er condemns the=highprieetaf the Lord
without evidence of'his 'crime t'" Jonathan
eclained '"Father;'this grievous sin' shall
not rest on thy venerable head 'Iwill goto
Jerusalem and inquire, that -"
"Thou wilt returhino more," John Gad-
dis .interrupted "for Apollonius-and'Mene-
laus have spies, and the house of Matathia
is certainly among the'prosoribed."
'Yet I will go and let it- cost even my
life,*kJonathan -esponded, determinedly.-
"If there'e'ist a iisunderstanding between
the houe'Of Matathia and the Loid's high-
priest I shaili explain it, and if Menelausis
a traitor-N1o, gracious God, no!I it is im-.
possible.-:-go to Jerusaldm."^
.Kis thy youngest son, mother Miriam,"
said John;- ",for if he goes to Jerusalem he
will return 'no more."
Mother Miriam embraced her son. "My
Benjamin, go not to Jerusalem, leap not in
to the yawning abyss of danger. Thy coun-
try claims the right hand of all her sons.-
Be cautious for the sake of thy bleeding
people; for the sake of thy aged mother go
riot to Jerusalem."
"Was I ever disobedient to my mother,
did I ever forsake the instruction of my
father, was I ever slow in obedience when
honor ;dictated, when my country called~
when my Ged and my people bid; then may
God forsake me in the darkest moment of
affliction," Jonathan said, feelingly.' "But
my beloved; mother,.my Venerable father, I
mistr go to Jerusalem to ascertain myself
the state of affairs. If a prophet would say
this day, verily Menelaus is a traitor, Icould
not believe it; for he ,is the highpriest of
the I ord,:he is the father of her,' know it
then,: o  er who posgsses my heart, my love,4
the happiness and 'cause of gxy life-of her
who is so kind, so virtuous, so innocent.-
No,'i say ,ph gine's father is no traitor.--
I go to Jerusalem."
Before'an answer could be given Jonathan'
was oue. ,Thom I must follow him," said$
Judah; " for lean not bear i , that he alone
$hjd bravo the danger.
d~ jA4'66fstay, 'Matatia said,l a this
was'blen  t ti, art tiir Steps of Jui.

get cried, vehementlyo enteriguerokir
"hearIs=ael's woe, listenttoOthoe  afhe ie-
tidn t thy people; but-beware Ieetthy'hsa r
break Or iadness see °on thy haie., H t
thounever heard of'the inventiodustie fines
cious contrivances of Satan to toanrntIh,
victims? Recall to thy' mind the .oret-of
all and thou hast. scarcely an inde- to-the
stories 1 have t'o communicate."
" Speak, ny son," Matathia replied-
""This is a day of evil tidings and this is an
age of miisery."
" The hirelings of Apollonius and Medne
laws cane to Hebron," the ma  narrated,
" and 'erected an altar to Zeus, upon which$
the sons and daughters'-of Israel were vom-
manded to worship. The learned Eleazer;
who is ninety years old, and is highly :re-
spected and beloved, was coniaidedto set
an example to his townsmen by worshipping
Zeus; but he refused. Ils hands and feet
were tied, his mouth forced open and fleslr
of the swine put into it; he spat it out arid
said, he would rather die a' thousand:tinines
than transgress one of 'God's laws..: 'he old
man was, dragged to the torture,; lind after
limb was screwed into the horrid instru-
ment; but he trembled iot, not a feature of
his countenance changed, his lips uttered
no complaint; no gron, no'sigh was heard.
Hundreds on their -knees prayed for the :life
of Eleazar, but the heathen captain heard
them not and increased the torture on the
oldhero. 'Let meat be brought to thee as
thou- choosest, 'said the captain, "and eat
publicly here, so that the people believe, thou
hast eaten from the flesh of our sacrifices.'
]teazar refused:  'I shall not become a
stumbling block to the young and inexperi-
enced,' said he, I shall not betray the laws
of my God for the price of ni life. "I shall
diand thou shalt die, but the word of ode
God will, last foreier, and m people-willV=-
er revere and observe then'  'Kill theggI
erable dog !' the captain commanded, nad'
his hirelings  lik ferocious beasts of th' foi
est' fell' on the hoarky agi ind uder ,fI
erable igonies he    'up 'hisgtg l
'the banger otgLr.       t
doesthloodinot oial'in hkrle.a  kk


0 7

. ,be 1la.that the law of his God wa
dearer to himthan his life; and praised b
Israelhat it can boast upon such faithfu
s. My blood congeals not; for I know
that God only cbastises us on account of our
dins, and he will never abandon entirely the
sons of his covenant. Their Redeemer lives
theirSavior is mighty. His anger lasts bu
one moment; everlasting, however, is His
grace. I envy Eleazar's happiness in Par
- adise, I hope for Israel, and am. prepared to
follow the good example set by the martyr o
Ilebren,'
"More than this I expected of thee, fath-
er Matathia," said the stranger. "But first
Swill finish niy narrative, then we shall ar-
gte. None can count the number of men
that were killed, because they observedathe
comn ndiments, because they read the words
of thy od and mine. The delicate daugh-
ters of Zon, sire, the mothers in Israel who
expiredin the hands of the executioner, be-
cause they circumcised their children, are
innumerable.' I have seen women hanged
'with their children suspended on their necks
bause they taught them 'The Law which
Mosescommanded us, a heritage of the con-
gregation of Tacob. But I shall tell thee
the particulars in but one instance. Han-
nah is the name of the pious woman that
had' seven sons, all brought up in the fear of
the Lord.' I have seen them, sire, I have,
nwn them well. Wisdom, beauty and
virtue never chose finer symbols to present
themselves to the eyes of man than the sons
of Iannah. They were the pride, the only
hope' of their happy mother, and the good
ample of the people. The captain with a
host.of Syrians came to Bethlehem.  'In
the name of the king bring sacrifices to the
gods!  he commanded.    None obeyed.-
Hannah with her seven sons were brought
lbe'ore tlle captain. 'Bow down to my gods
so the Iing commands! 'the.captain thun-
dexI, '4 r death is your lot.' 'Thou shalt
not bowdown to them, the Kingof kings
cor :nad-' the first born son of Hannah
repi, and before the eyes of his mother,
ar4~ the presence pf, his' brothers he was
mnygodsr die, th  or af the

s Hannah,.and with' mile en his lips he re.,
e ceived the fatal blow.of the executioner's
l hands. When his precious blood flewbefore
the eyes of thetormented mother-the cap?
r tain cried again, Stubborn rebels, embrace
e my gods with yours as the king commands,
, that your, ives be spared!' The third son
t of Hannah replied, 'The God and L rd of
s heaven and earth who, lone reigns eternally,
- commanded us, Thou shalt have;no other
gods before me.' The captain in his beastly
f anger split the head of the pious youth and
threw the dead body, at thefeet of the tear-
less -mother. Three -rmore.of the sons 'of
Hannah were thus summoned to bow down
to ,the" idols, and none .of ,themhesitated, one,
moment, none of.them trembled, none yield-
ed. Six corpses, hear it, father Matathia,
six corpses laid bleeding at the feet of Han-
nah and she wept not. . Six brothers laid-
there cruelly slain when the seventhewas ac-
costed by the captain, 'Young and fair, art
thou," my child, like a rose in spring thy
countenance blossoms, thy 'eyes glare with
youthful fire better than solitary stars in the
midnight sky. 4Why shouldst also thou die
and leave thy mother behind alone,4solate,
bereft of all her children. Yield thou,:my
child, to the king's behests, and I will make
thee rich presents.'
"Mine is the silver and mine is the gold,
saith God,' the child, replied, and tears, for
the first time during this horrid hour, tears
filled the eyes of the mother. She embra-
ced and kissed her child, pressed him eon-
vulsively to her tormented boson, and ex-
claimed, vehemently: 'I 'am the happiest
mother in Israel!' I thought for a moment
the captain himself struggled against the
tears-that forced themselves into his 'eyes.--
1' thought lions, tigers, rocks, must weep;
but the captain gnashed his teeth savage-
like, clinched his fists and threatened to tear
them into pieces, if they submit not-to the
king's will.- Fear thou not the reproach of
man; and dread thou, not their menaces, says
Israel's royal prophet,' the boy calmly an
swered, while extricating himself from'the
embrace of his mother. feathgobolisiho'
uies of 'dath ii'rthe eapa    ase
'Deghiasjreturn to niy fathe in heven,

'I

Ta    M ACdeA a      a                          7
guiltw   thou wouldstlbreelntomy heart' under which thou utterest thy wordT*
Bow down before this ring, the seal of serpent ventures not into the lion's deb*  t
the king,' the captain whispered to the boy am the son of a richan who died'butibt
so that the people believe thou didst horn- week. He was the friend of Antiaiehus-
age to'the gods.'-V-  And ye shall be pure be- He called me to his dying couchi hd:bdea
fore God and before Israel, Moses- teaches, me sweat a terrible beath thatIshail never
and I dare not violate his law,' the boy an- take the sWord against the Syrian' king.
wered.-- The lamb was slaughtered, his dare not-fight against the army of Antiochus.
blood was shed. .Ashrielof horror escaped But I age call oin thee'nd 'c'y ith atthe
the multitude; but mother Hannah'exclaim- strength of ny soul, 'Rose thyself' fettered
ed: -I am the happiest mother in Israel!'- lion, and avenge the wrongs of myipeople:
Away she ran in sheer madne s, half shouts Rouse thyself Asmonean, war-horse and ,ha-
ing with joy, half groaning: with a -broken riot of Israel, and draw thy sword- for"the
heart. At the' pool of Bethlehem, God had rights of thy nation. ,The patriots wait for
mercy on her, and with ,the words on her thee. They will rally around thy banner
lips, I am the happiest mother itt Israel," and perform wonders of heroism under thino-
she expired, yielding up her soul to God, to eyes. Do rouse thyself, lion of 'the mOi-
join her sevenrsons.---Father Matathia, if tains and shake thy mane,'that Syrir'sarm'es
thy blood is congealed with horror; if thy tremble and Antioch e feel the poirful aia
heart is frozen with terror, does not this he- Of a nation driven to despair."
roism rejutvinate, inspire thee with bravery  . Judah looked on his-father with eyes'rrom
for God and Israel?'                    whicl currents of lightning appeared to dare
The mother 'and the sons rejoice," said forth. His countenance looked like heaven'
Matathia.  "Happy ,the people that can edge when the sun touches it'for the lask
boast upon, such heroes, such mothers and time before he sets. His hair like tiose of
ucfh children. The Spartans are cowards, the lion rushing to the deadly  aiht;od
Termopolisis a play ground.for little boys, on end. His nostrils widened. He nt red
if compared to the heroism of my suffering inarticulate sounds like distant huinderVbut
people. It requires more courage to Suffer he would not speak until his father 'gave hi
wrong than to avenge it. Hannah is a di permission. Then he roared for thr "M*n
vine heroine, her sons are the bravest.--Fear or slave, patriot or spy, or whatever' thou
niot, my son, the savage atrocity of Syria's art, go and tell them, the Asmeneans will
king will soon be drowned in the blood of fight, die or triumph oper the eniesof I
our martyrs. The despotic will-of Antio- rael."
chus will shatter into atoms on the rock of  "Tell them Judah Maccabee's handais on
Israel's fortitude. The blood of our saints his sword," Matathia continued, "and the
impregnates".the tree of*li ierty with .new blood of Israel will be avenged."
strength., I14y heart bleeds when Ifthink of  The sound of martial trumpets interrupts
Hannah and.her sons, of Eleazar and of the ed the conversation: "This is Syrian iu-
other pious{martyrs; my heart bleeds when sic,"-they exclaimed, sinuitaneolsy,.and.
I remember the sufferings of my people.-- Matthiaud his sons rushed into the street t
But what can. we do,'who are but'a handful? The stranger alone remained-in the house
what can we do if our highpriest, our prim-.fut 'he was not alone along timie,,a damsel
ces, our priests=and our warriors submit to of exquieito beauty,:ix he.prime;of'yuth
the eney, conspire;with' the' king'scap-' came shylyrin' Her-. lushihxontenance
tains, nddeliverus into the hands of ou rbetrayedat'nce,that she.knew  ell .hom
foe.  'What 'can we d, if God giPes izxn 'she would dfind.' " RIebeena, 'my iyleei,
streg, $ 6 helb; if God inspires no ~fsweetestideal of creation te etrag  e
'Thb, 'father Matathia, next topGed, at"didst thoga reogpae #ty VOZ
th  nlrhop dif' tiel,' thetangernepl tojletxagazse o 9~eetut   bt~
'A  J i p     ho55itrststie.sTo2       cttt~ae      ~.e'a    ers       n$


.98
ottqz Oa l drowped qthedehigg of Jap Amra       .   l taveitthot'ewest thyproudTieion
6fne 1t i4zathy prsepnca bdygg on thaf- n Samaria adivest with U82 tdheyaouna
R,,?  ejht. :Speak imy beloved, let me taintsthen: Rebeeca shah pe thine fo v e4
beat   -pp odigiss-voie, hast tho at notfore and :wbat love can; ient id,04ityegive I
g ft   y faithfuluArau, thy lQvingshap4 shall biyent and, give thee. Inthe shade 9f
ke d  0 do{peak!   'o, do dot peeak. am yonder cedars theu shalt tell me the stories
tpo   ppy. WTis br n of felicity Will of the' battledeld, and I will tell theej h6w
ralk m   h eertd  ,peh, eases it not. Let I prayed and waited-for thee, hoeI thought
opstirli4iy loie, til I am ,again my- and dreamt of thee. 'Aniram thenuwe shall
fel tlf  1r4  zn a natural dtate ofnmimnd., beharppy&amp;'     .
R e eq9, let oesni and mourn,. la gh and  Despondently;he dropped his heaand a
Yp aprseif 'lto'a fair balance of mind. I little louder thanawhisper he monotonously
a foJ; Doap a aeijld ,no, I amp in love. said:. Rebecca, I can not fight"
Parcd±a4me, my beloved, my head i. dizz;; sArt thou a enward?" she. asked, timid-
DpTba rt rules supreme.   He-embraced ly, "Os my sweet dreams!l'
+ epa     d expre ed the rest aohisasenti  A coward, I?" he responded.  ' Noty
et  ~i~ssgs.                    .the grace of heaven, I am no coward. A
"ira   thou didst deceive me," the dam, coward must not -love the daughter of Matd
I1 c~aniied. "DIdds~theu not tell nyc, thiarthe sister of Jndah Maccabee.1 Bie
thou art a poor shepierdiand  patriot?  T6Bt fight the lions of the forest, ;emmand me to
lastJ' tecostwhgn in Jerusalem  learned, descend into hell and fight Satan and hie,
thatthouart the son of a rich obleman of rgion of demons, for the only prize of;receive
namaria ;and thy family is attached to the ing a victor's crown from thy hands; and I
exists. Q  A nram, myiheart willbreak will do it without hesitation. But my father
whdr  are love thee no: more; bt for ac called-me to his bedside one hourbefore his
the h0ppiesso *o4r    I  old Aot love a death:and;}caused me to swear, terriblee
0loanigeMy$atherwould justly curse me,..oath not to fight against the armies of A-
myn othe a,bapdonoa, and gny brothers de- tiochus. Therefore I can not fight.
ny me the tit and 4g ts of a sister, should  - "Then, leave me forever,":Rebecca said
= .1nite myself with a Helenist."       in a melancholy but decided tone, "leave me
Ble og od courage my beloved," he re. before my father learns thatI moved one who
sp nde, " amno ielenist."           swore not to fight the enemies ofI;rael; I
"Dh   lkheaven, he is  no Ielenit," the would Abe ashamed to  aze again into:his
damsel exclaimed, enthusiastically.     countenance, every lookof his-would appear
C"Mr father:was afriend=of king Antio- to me a silent rebuke, that hie daughter-4is
ekus,".Ainram continued, "but' my father honored him. . Airami I shall forever lov
died, and I am the only heir of li wealth, thee. My affeeions shall followthee throw'
:but not ef his:royal. sentiments."      deserts;if thointraversest thbiu over easif
., Thengthou  wilt fight for-Israeli in the thoucrosse t their, to foreignandsifthott
'raks-ofSnyfather, on the sideof my broth.. gojournest there. But I can not be the pant.
ets4 ' Rebecca paid:. ,I "ddreamt{las t ight 'ner of him. who, refuses to fight .tfor his af
that sl~lee girls'ofrModainwent forth witi flictedf people his bleeding country. Fave.
har~psmud4timbrels:to greet .the triumphant well. Farewell!"
patiahta who retuied from the field ofybat. . Anram fell upon his knees and having
lphr the'Nad vanquishedithe haughty caught the edge of he rgmenthebesuglht,.
teney.Everygirl eariied a-wreathiof myrheiniploredA her with. teatsin his;eyes ta
ytiddatrrro   tw1h  victors. I rown  chsngeher' "resolatioi; bat in ain, she
.ede     Asmtinain. 4y  ountenan~e was wonl~not listento the wordsrbicbigs ~
aedtigtyhe hir#of "hyhead sand beadi4 enied heart dictated. " Au Asmonead o
ll kftigongLbugthhkeeeyys fasshed looks ingr 1atrier a hetbo onl,' ee iIdst
41i#    6    lfad   ie~   eavnlyjoyhie Idsi,'thenheileft Amad  oielthita
d~ieii         il'dbe  ll~d,*hendls~iintedloved ikeamadiin lie oee

P~n     A
frso costly A -prize. ,Ix an not, I ,dare" gat
fight," w e a' terrible niiose~ with;put, tie
shonuts of i htin mie andrthe clesliof ai rn
attracted hisattention, and he ushed nto
the street.
CHAPTER ,IL
FIGHTT AND DBLOODSHE D.
In the market space of Modaift an oblong
altar of earth and stone; adorned 'with two
horns, wasereetdlby Syrian soldiers. The
statues of Cores And Baechus werethen un
folded to the gaze of the pUltitudgunder
imposing ceremonies   The Syriad priest
sacrificed a he-goat to Bacchus an4 a swine
to Ceres Myrrh and' frankincense and'
other perfumes impregnated-the atmosphere,'
while the Syrians kneeling around the altar:
sung:
'' Let, the rich fumes of; odorous i censeA' y,
A grateful savour .to the pow'rs on high ;
The duo Ii1atior  eiotxeglect to pay
When eveningclosese or Whenudawns the day."
Af er songsand,peformances 'werecl19sed
an4 meanwhile the-people of Mfodain had
assembled from all ends.xd qurt4rsof the
plade to gaze .at the novel spectacle-the
herald having sided tie trumpet to aftract
attention in the name  of the 'king united
the people to worshipthe gods ,and eat of the
sacrifices.' No reply being _made and none
paying attention ta this command  fter the
herald had thrce ,epeated it, the captain of
the host sipped forward and having   s
suured a haughty air, he vociferated:-
' "I,  4elles  c ptai. of  .Al  i hu
hereby comniandY Uto worship thq 'gods
and st of the sacrifices, that pyoz enjoy the
grace of my g 1oi9us natr andof pelles"
None replied, and the capt  continued
er nation on earthbas foshen It
god snd.pag homage to the mighty gods o
king nocht     phave smitten a4  n-
mies and subdued all nations.- Your brea
reenothe nja s and#4  th1e;aeys hwha ed
scrte4 ei God oJi gan n  esjS thiu7go
ofAthusai4 gwrs$4pa .we opare
happen "    are  Be yRvjaiseeband
the  idg t1at yq  e reppne in ggae gil1
. 4 1
IW~a~  ~I~~1~        n v    9 ~

LOAf ES.O
One word, one twine of the eye; and yur
hotaesare enveloped iril as 'oif w( {y r
end  daughters aeb J dlv            WT,6i oei iu
your sheep, your silver and yon g lc
our loof, and3iur dead iodiere thrw
before the wil4 bets ofthe forests';thatth'
foaed feed on them adhdthe raven ov
ef them     t1:offer yougrace andpoa4  0
,you ow down to the godsid' d ' ho a eto
the king.  WU1 you accept niy'r     t irms,'i
will yoaodie?"
We will die or lite'nd worshipthe
Lord of hots the gupreme king.   h'atev
er other nations or -other mon do.'Ihad y
house shall always worhip':od,"' 'aitghi°
replied, with- a firm and po efu  ee
which at once betrayed-theidetermnhatiiato
have his actions correspondarid'immediate.
ly suceged his words.  The, captain cast -a
long look on thegigatic framcof the har
man, who having.madehisway thoughthe
crowd stood before him with flamingo:ka
and bold determination  pekg     thro gh
every featureof-his pale connitenan4e,:
m ho arttyou~ho hoary vdbol;! he;aptai
asked ,' thatthoutakest Uponhrspobsi..
bility the blood of allthose menA
t Lamd1atathia the Asmionoa and tho
art a rebel against the:Most High'? wasthe
prompt response. "The bloodiofdhnesewmen
is dear to me, dearer still to them and me is
liberty justice andindependenue ; daest t
us sour religion and thelasW fourl0ed#
Ieigni gsuprinecontempt for theyods
man, the captiam.'turned tothe.oylpe.-
"Whocdaestfor what the old faol ays,".he-
said "he is a foolishenthusiast who hae
buta feW days to Jive at besk  1t-y Ye i e
of' Modaint, your lives, artt tiike thdt'iber
'ty2  eerfdonvof yoiwives  k ,dau ghtrs,
the lives ofyt'ebabearid Mekl ngt eed
en our;. obediiee to the- ki'g's beh ta.}rt.
RefuaseudafiO o .oJeyadite*. '     a$
whygould yountobey?
Again _'o reply beingmade the ;/:
apntiLedd   I   1,iMatatika the  An-eA&amp;".
any eher o1    t woasie            te
494ycung wea     $oil$rwl~a~v
### e

you

V
y
0


TUB  lI1IsT o

8    i t4 fteds; tosfeMiatyatia, step aaiist tle patriot o w1e drIe  f oin
;f
a, m         au do thexk1ng:r comm aa2" place t6 pla4e in and abot the villaged-
-           - Their dead ad wounded marked every spot
4'J4s~y, S  unto hini who ocys ,the they had chosen, until they finally were en-
kw  Or,  fo rgts th e  :  ofkings  only  to  tirely  routed, surrounded  and pressed  into  a
say'isiif. at the expense of his soul.I narrow pass, where they threw away their
s   :,   nto h i4  o ubmits to the uiiust arms and sued for mei ey.
t psof: fori!gdespot, renounces his  The shoutsof triumph and the de non tra-
inalenable rights, and forgets hi duties, tions, of vetory, and inJunted enthusing
ji ateo  yyfe :and peace fo1',himself and didnot prevent Matat ia from fist- destrgy-
his 1   bonyfor thy price of his honor, his ing;the, altar n  idols broungh  by:Ap le
m      . p  h. conscience. Away, captain then to care for the wounded and thepdd
gthe  away wigh thy host! There is no, "Here liedApees,'' he said, "whobpasted
trsi  i, q4' n. '                      upon his power  God ,has slain him. .
tt  reW~etospleak any more, lest I might  "Yes, God has slaia2Apelles," Aram'
make      d bf thy'life,'? the captain than- the young Samaritaa said; "for he;.is sthe
dere' Mh lust time, men of Modain, in man who killed the seven sons of Hannkh.
be lf4Hofhth0,king, 'I sunimon  you.to wor- God is just andMutathia is the consecrated
shigthemighty gods'of:Antiochus and eat messenger of '*s.just wrath. ,
ofa et ,gcifiees or within one' hour there  "Why is thy garment so clean, young
sha be no 'zidggnan in Modain to tell the  an and thy sword solustrous?' Mattthia
story-of yourbhorrid ,destruction. ' Inyour asked. "'Behold, blood a nd dust coveror'ur
ownoses your dead bodies {shall be burnt swords andour 'garments."
to. shesin honor Qf the gods ayou iefuse. to . "I swore-a terrible oath 'to my dying fath-
worship. Your wives and dau ghers shall'er," Amirafresponded, "notto fight against
beasoldito reglenish'the treasury of the king Antiochus."              r
to wmbonyo Wrf tse obedience.' Immediate   "Then 'as fastas possible be Rone," Mata'
andundoricoditiona obedience. only can save thia commanded, sternly ' ei'e those'patri.
J:yo'e 4ots i 'their just indignation taketheefoa
Iataitly anold manyemerged from the enemy of I rel; a spy, a  t aitor, and'4is
cro4este ped~ip to the altar ta worship patch thee'te thie'Sfru.  '
thQgod+y  " e. it not,,Ahmighty4God,t ere  Amram hesitated '  Qick,   tell' the,"
is a    riaia~odaih    plMattht4  1 ainfor £the'sak of thy life be quick'" the .old
eddfn i   pftifm t'ene;thenheleaped on the f an ifUrged, "or thou art1ost.
maglii1g tigerotr hisaprey.a d, instantly  "I cannot   fromhere," Aniram cried,
killedthe old renegade. The; capwai b   'my heart is ettered to thin 'sol."'
stod 'ea  by ; ifted up1 his sword overthe  "AAid thy blood Will aitely &amp;i so it, er
he ;!         a r ku  ofoe hlsute e d'lgng,"M'ytlasthisaid, indignantlyf. f -"1id
in   .jggigtg  fatal tblo :thy, ,sgw~r ord:chle go:If thou reftisest anid the 1iid
Mag        s  l   is the l'rpof 4p lle. ed i e killthee, thy4bloodfalls}ii tfSo4
T     rath e'  gn t ,a ipgideK1       head"      '        ','
N    t A  y51  'Ilegip.dab     ace   The thundering' ies and 'hee s bf the
bee was:heard: "P bov withmovery oward    t o'ioi  patriots' rdsoi nded'do tfuld  ,
odeaM     ev ey 5ne mydof --ithli ' and "all. andtenf oldithe'f  st  echoedA i rtiimm,
yun1tde heoody ,o k ofdtru tion:,      tl etienhd eh  a°t e dieag  r f . he
Th e         a fo{nhs  ,i or4 iFwedd'fowrnoldWitti a  aeiWitli .a t iown  h nrel
theuid         he°'prasut amews heripe ad myrtle to orown the As ntt  an;
whet IIie hst oJg   a&amp;M    hbrotlidbr%%&amp;As. AH~m th     eiti tierhi    i
"4  M£~ithid          ieio pdsiz      lrtl     t

T1E 'MAC
Thpr6eei0sn ippitchedthe pwhare
theilta   o strod; theiisfltathiateindhis 'si
Were crewned with l   Barnels and iMrtles  id
then suts of' the iidide   the ip lit-
ed enthalsiasmrof the victo i     ^us patriots
"Yourjoy:is untimely," Mataithiii'respond=
ed. "he work is only begun,'the hostso 4
Syfii are uneiierous, od we are few in uii-a
her. 'Theyn iiadv ne against u as Apel-.
les did. But With the-help of od e will
- smite 9themi st e4id Apelles. fLet th a-
tri ts norlly around  mead ay ois, ad'We
will ead thad o victory and 'libkerty.0 oet
r 'd. He ni     t    i# h iae   adhislk
i     l sa a 'bfore the beiath of ' is nostrils;
Sanherude alegiows were 'slain i oe ight
by iisangeldlHe  iihroned-Niu eli's kin s
on account of Israe andexti itshed "Bit-
bel' proud' rce  abaocounit'of Judah; h e
will smie these h eathe tipIand toe and
Israel shall' triiuph and-'.pi'alse the Lord of
hosts. Be valorous and fearless what We
have begun will be carried to a gloiriis end.
Let Israel be 'free once  i-4'ths b  our
watchword. Our God, ou religion, ourna,,
tioinaliy, our lawL!,tis be our object,,and r
God ilibe with us. Are you all ready to "
figh. for God and Israfel?"
"es ! yes! -Tes!forGod and Israel!" a l '
responded in one powerful chorus.°h
" Thank;todhere ie noitraitor in Moda- h
in," atatbi exclaimed.
" des, there is one, as sure as my name
is Azariah," one of the multitude vociferated.30
aiinO him hither that, we see him and
o im  justice" '.the excited multitudes
cried,
Azaria lbirongt Airam before MlatatE  b
"re istlhe odlth with the cleapdaos,ij Il~
e    rale a 'ldcotly dress," Azariah-saidi"his' hi
Word, 're ifme, has no note es ior wi iini
he soil his 'fine cloth ; foi e answered -d  i
wii' thour:didst aIk us'"what we ihned ':
do. Je looks like  Sairai'ilanrlraitdrke
a sIuddIi Greek,"a .bIde 6oalis.tet an
014 'i(#Ne 'dfed to kill hir, that nddi
90N hg ~ ord     fia uc 'coW brdo bo.

C\ B lEA N S.
"  m ro coard, ior ai I a tra"$
~tl  mri~,isting a  aW
of bra. My father was aseo
$a$d 'fin ahi dert #Siffi          ~ s
deth id he i eaeanic sam r in ev  f &amp;
a   rainst tifi delfidzsa df d pdty  A'
hheviateia ath sir o1h
of his dying father."  n     m
"As a' gide of) A  lle n r~iih Sylaus,
he came to 'Modain,'' :Joeihfe"   e
'  dsli'i'¢ta;eouz itithem  Iea :.i k
he invents a'tale to e isinisei elI1e'
I f tho ° s&amp;*yt I lie;'Mail*f oifed,
"t      1-ill ro, to thee before' thWG, '  t .
in iigle  oeabat,thd d     bt"
"Accepted," Jo et'ohide
" Not ih!Modait, MAt tth het i' d14-
"If the har  in guilty lehimien ehe,
ad if he is iotloht ini ao rhith1edee
sires. A Asiinglionuiba't proves"ofhit
is buttarmtherdaneofo manitlauliti : Nb
do you knoW, Joseph thatifthis
ast ie gide of  hi'-ytiis?/''
" Tel me, father Matathia   '    ,hat  t .
Wing the tender' Tlauoftie city  the e
'oughi mountains, w here has arie ed eoic
with the eflvei trde'slbo  i       ?"
Joseph euid. "Oilet him   hitis f   a
shat hae lshes o ftiid he, "hfit b~o d
hia to this place;-what bnsine. h'ha e
ere?  et himt peak fnir himself"
Rebecca threw the 'ailoverher;:
ce, aidAmram stared into tae cou enance
If Matati(4without sayingione woid
krthe sake of thy life spea-, YUn
can,".he oldheroQ comi andd.
"I would raflier diedie onthisspottin
etray the secrets of my  earth
aid, resolutely. "iIf yon thiurtat  r Y
Mood take it; stilnone shall boas o of:v6.
i extirted the secret of my soul"frqm  y
"He.isa traitor, tie was th  giide of th
yrians reso ned .froh
-"    A ltiidrod ,I  ths ,  i ht ilrod tongues,  :.
Andth'otsofas~i~jz' ~iti
R 8 .


42                            T A1   Fi
" ,; " I de Are he is innocent," .he sta-
Stlr nyoiced ,Whateve-e say~s
4a4rcue; Ikow h iumad the secrets of his
t' th faazement the .patriots loolked on
°h 4amse ,  d every uplifted sword sank
w yzwf= Thoy, my onlydaughte , pleadest
#hl strange ? " Matathia interrogated,
slowly and solemnly.
-' 9°pray': for him, imploree your justice,
gh e ch.yogriercy in his behalf,",Rebee-
irespdedl  "My father, let no innocent
blil~x1 e~she4 ingfodain."
A    au'seyes filled ,with tears.  nNo
1 .lepeech ,thee, speak no more inmy
behalf," he prayed in a low and moved tone.
"Life has lost its charms to me. Desolate,
joyl s:and hapless 4t stares-at ne through
Sh ,t okelts ;of, ary skull. I would say kill
ene,4nd die'; would, without regret, did I
Bat grea4 the thoug tof bringing innocent
blogon your heads, could 1 stand the torture
o pering to you a liar and traitor. What
I, said is true, God and this damsel are nmy
"God and I are the witness pf his inno-
nee "  etecca exclaimed, enthusiastic lly.
"len  dMoain, then let him return in
1Mce to lus .home,' Matathia said. "It is
ttgr to spare the wicked than to kill the
inocent.-Young man, asjong as a sacred
oath binds thee notto fight in the ranks of
the patriots, let thy face not be seen on these
mohintams. lNow be one."
!'he look which Amram cast on the for
of Rebecca can easier be imagined than de-
seribed. With a. breaking heart he wentf
from thence to retugn no mnoise4 Iebecca
again threw the vail over her face and silence-
reigned supreme, when Matathia asked: "Is
t ere a traltoir in Modain?"
"There is no traitor in Modain' I'the menu
declined.
"Well then let us'go fromplace to place,"
aid ht hin, "'drive away The Syrian gar-
risons, east out the apostateiorefuse to
light in tI     .      1s. of J patriots, de-
stj oftheir ten~phes, altars, statues and idols,
E ~   nin  ded inrdue(aggiin the

RaT il  oF,
net before us to. destroy 'the. enemy  We
are not 'skilled in the art of warfare, but
dust is' our cause, vigorous are '9ur :arms,
Migly is ourgod, and there: is'no traitorin
Modain. If this is yotur wish, sayrso."
" thunderyof::enthniastie eries of "Yes!
Yes! -Yes! " was the answer. 'Then let
each return to his houge,'" Matathia- contin-
ued, "let each armed himself as. well as he
can; in a few weeks we shall have plenty of
arms, taken from our enemies. Let each
provideshimself 'with some food 'and follow
me to morrow., Forgetnot that we open to
ourselves a career of tribulation, dangerand
deprivation, that death lurks in a;thousand
crevices. Blut let none forget, just is our
cause, vigorous' are ,our arms, nigh is our
God?,and prove-to morrow that there is no
traitor in.Modain.".
Matathia and his family had returned to
their humble home under the 'most enthusi-
astic demonstrations of the people. Well
might the old man have exclaimed with the
classic poet:_
"Life's span forbids us to extend oitr cares,,
And stretch our hopes beyond our years."
He sank exhausted upon his 'couch and
called his wife and 'childiento him. "1 am
old and weak," said he, "14feel:that'I can
not live many more years. It is my mission
to rouse, unite and organize the patriots,
then I shall :surely die. My sons, ye are
men of valor, nen who fear the Lord, ye will
accomplish what 1 begin, ye will restore Is-
rael . '
"Father Matathia, thou' art childish,"
said Miriam. "Want 'of exertion at this
moment causes thee to appear 'to 'thyself
weak and feeble. .Thou art strong, for thy
will is iron-like and the will is the man.--
Per nit thyself not to be weak, and;strong
thou ar. Be determined toive and, carry
out all thy wishes, an4thou wilt'not fail to
accomplisht'hy ends. Rouse thyself, fatber
a tathia, and ie strong."
' "Thou art n angel of the Lord   m
Matathia said.  ",I know thee to h~th ani-
"K  "Sj-y  1  .  s.}
giof light and, co olation. G   n   1is
infnte grace hes s nt thee to 1adme hi-o'

thee, ange Mian.sustained t lxi ; a i1bdy "thy strength is in Codthe Alr g ty  r
in-efinaepfx ature's 4espti lags.  ut tho  thiis manner be gre thegperi
I :an ioenly As longas, ny existence has hey;rise andlfightfor;God and r  4F
a definte object. ;.: mission is to rouse thou them to victory,wenthyn.1h e y
and organize the.patriots against ourone- shallbe too weak.  n b4ob i  thi  : r   r
mnies. .-This object achieved and Ipan liye always remember thyitfr an thyggther
no longer. ,Ihave lived-longer already than who wrought it, a  hear thirencg ra g
my, frail body waso destined , When (die, ;voice  Ter it thyself notA9 be .wk, and
gny 'sons will con p1ste the glorious task strong thou art.'"
which we now begin, and Judah Maccabee    The four sons embraced their mthe ard
will ead them. All will obey him."      ster and again swore eternal fidelitytogs-
After a  short andi solemn pause the 9id rael's casse. JTugash to fl-ethe baier aid
patriot continued:  'Kneel, down before kissed his mother an sisters they 4;  ex-
God; -my sons, draw your swords. and let claimed: "Death: only shall tear this pr-
them be dedicated by your other toGod cious gem from me or from the frQpt of Is-
and Israel! "                           rael's patriots '
The four sons drew their swords and knelt  1atathia's strength returned, andlion-
silntlybefore their another. A'solemn awe like, he, stood early in the mer ipgig.the
overwhelmed every heart when after a short miat of the nen of Modaingd th{ge, p
and emphatic pause, mother Miriamlaid her had come during the;night to' $o  ,- th 4-..
trembling hand on the four swords of her The warlike band parted froig\the  Aumes
sons, while she lifted up her right hand to and their families and went fot trave
heaven andswith a firm tonesaid; " God and danger and meefdeath. with bol  t   for
the pure affections of a mother .consecrte the rights,, liberties and religion of e, don-
these swords to the sacred work of Israel's trodden people  to chastise a haughty ard
redemption. As pious motherlannah ded- overbearing enemy.
icated in : iloh  her only son Sanuel to the * "Dear native land, how do the good and wise
s.  Thy happy cline Mid countless blesig als
Lord of hosts, so do 1 dedicate my five sons he oldesing Mi cieneri
to ,thy service O God off.Ja~r el. . Let ame noteycu gitadr:          ,.
to thyservice,QGoosMany a tear flowed- fotn fair' eyes,'and
live to see theday, when either of them will aeong them also Rebecca wept. She'yhia&amp;
stigmatize the nameof.the Asnoneanas, a bidgfarewellto he father-andbothrs 3he
coward or traitor. God protect, guide and had lost, as4it appested; lost forever,'Ain 'a
:shield my sons for Israel's sake, for the sake the dealy beloved idol of heiheart. Ndth-
of thy glorious name., Amen."  11er coun-iagh
1nsg'could' assuage h r'grief tdr ndris'ol hei-
tenance gradually became serene and bright 'orn  soul
as the cloudless sky, and beamed with in-  "As if withssports, my snfrings I cou ease
spiration. Thefour sons remained on their  or by my pano the god f love peas.'
knees. as though ;hained to the ground,"CAPE,11
when the mother .uddenly clasped a pole
S.,,           T H E P A G A I Z ED J RUSAL EM.
painted blue and white and unfurled a large Ted_'nJ            al     A   1ll
red banneron which was skilfully,,Wrought Terror reigned 1  prusae nus
*ith 'silver the lion of Judth, the mighty andfrenelausgspported by a strong a-
Ariel;,andthe motto of -Judah Naccabee: sonfFyrians and jbrew Helep    swa-
.:                       Q~~~d a de'spoisepterv  h  b   tno i
Who like unto thee, among the mighty,  le ly ecity. cepte rateih in iia agf
o God."*                                qhecgaly               may Gree  a gnsge
and;superstition eteinaliy+rela e .ivey
Judah! thou artya yonng lion," she ex-
claimed,'n a tone bordering on naspirstion,' r Iebre          Thija:in  p s
e'four initiarilettersof thsi nIo   t rs of' th e     go    g      s

I


Tn    i   r o
gr fltteriig admirers, to the rich ard and golde  utehsileglared with dazzling
^E~ax t~  h6fear eaito' euspcted as ra ys, apparently to increase th 1eet-
bloyilad atta~h d'dto th'tiational Itatty. tebus tint f the "minerbiis flowers  idh
e        bi   hti appa'iitly \ atetirely bld 6 ned araoud6 ainartficifal spring, ina
l the cti1ial.                  marile bam, in the center of the room.
y da     eef36iou       an hi the ,iea uey'an s lbdoreor abed peculi-
S at iual;  tfiie;  irliigioly through arr withthe sImliity ofdiJofathan's dress.
4tie ttsn'°lookin    bout himselff as  e was nvite to rest hiiaself ii al  bed
though he had entered the capi el itn triuniph of 'the fiiet siklernbloidered with gold; and
tblhkead: 6ff 'a viota ons army  ,Was, aait the airial of 'tl lady
thi'ef(rd e intiane Md intiazig 'ih o   Jonahin earel littlfer the hliiiryareund
ik6i. " 'Sume d ndie a'ked'hii, sneeringly: him, and waited impatiently for the arrival
b6 t the sti §e1ectiirbers or onions, where of Iphe inej whose charms filled' evel7 vi
gd hiUedthei''cgutioned him city of his heartland engaged nor every
i ae* whisjers, to buy a'reeiaian:i'loak thought of ,his -oul ta' suadh an exteht,'thiit
and protect his rustic limbs againstt the he was blind and deaf for every other ph-
Sp/yrii *ind idwarig in this city; but son or thing: After he 'had' passd  early
J ninthanf, fothe was the .easant so much iafull hour of intense anxiety the door open-
ri diuled; lp'e~ierd'to date little about'eith- ed, and tii hig h and rinie stic figure of a fe-
r'i-d tfi rmly he sped' onwards to the plaee male 'entered. Joitathan rose;'ut his Adib-
of  lidestiy    ' 'appointrient soconfused hin, that he'uouil
Ias 's' the'house you seek" said a only bow and gase: It was not 'lieginerit
htrageto Jonath'an, who hadfdlliowed him was a lady of imiesi'ng stature'and ;eoi-
6eyighed i the cite "My niitressah yiandinieauty. A tunic of white' silk oy-
l6slyweits for  i."              '    ered the ,round form of the lady, with a di-a.
Jonatlan with inquiring lo6ks ineasired mond gi-dle around her waist. Fom'her
thest ingeraom tap totoeand asked him, black hair glitteredradiant  ems,fPerei's
"What do you wantof   e? 7 do no1t know'costliest pearls ueirc1d4the high and white
?you, nor ad "desirous afteryour acquain- neck; roses 'skilfully wrought 'of diaifonds
QAcand connected into biceletspagned the
,, By JTe that is plailanguag," said round'and-white arms  fit;was a lady Chu
;e ,tgangerwththe cunning sage;   but had. passed the ':first meridian of "female
kam quits plain myself  yhaveA.no desile beauty, but hid retained 'allte chams of
4ofort youracqyainaie, Jonath'anz sonof nature and abrillint mind. She appeared
Matathia. But my mistress haypositiyely no less confused than Jonathan, and'ietti-
cona'anded meto find you and escort you to' ed the silent'coinpliments in the same fau-
her. I have been out in search after you .ei. 'She, 'however, regained' her pre en e
for the last six months, Now I have found of 'mind loh g before 'Jonathan could ,aud
you. apa inform you, this is the house you having taken a seat assumed a'aughty mien
see.     ep i,  r"ed   t     H      i andeyed thie youg Aniouean so keenly
yog th i    tcosidered a moment: He thto that hiseonfusion increased' This*s' e-
Ipginde eti'ed to see bi here anid -alone.:dently her titention, for  she smiled  it.f
He;hestatei. gbly a fer  Oitithen he complacently when Jonathanunable any
folo   e  istih  d ger itl thehous.  nhi lohgerWto ears her pieing looks ooked in
Si   ciaW rt fand ois ntal luxury cofiti- a different direction.
d 4alintspleae t uens 'th                eour nae is'Jonathan :en Matthar-
South     young    an,' she' said, 'ina sonor  et t
ost  ~t muas  f jVl'   i 1sio   haghty  voice, " yoij conie from Modair:1+    -
'a t i ~ ~ ie ' , ' h   " o t i a ' ~ ~ h~  h a n   o l

conipiment. " This is a perilous end dan
gerous time as you must be aware," she con-
tiued, "I am a   idow w gm no gaily
aria protect  I must have a-steward be-
co ing ms high position ain societyT an ca
able to protect n  in the hour of danger r
You are recommended to nie. -Iwish to enr-
gage your services, and promise you any
compensation you might ask."
"  am a.priest of the iord, st.ward in
the house of God only," Jonathan replied,
'That is-oneof the virtues for 'wih you
are recommended to me," the 'ladycontinu-
ed,in the same haughtytone. "  love to
have' a o t me a pious priest of theLord, as
the temple is ,desecrated: the priests are
driven fr-om the Lord's'altar, and Jerusalem
is full 9C idols, Therefore, yes, just there-
fore, I ofer o u theost of a stewardfy
house."                '
"Ah, and therefore your servantsearched'
after me for 'nioths," said Johathani in a
toie of surprise; thereforee . 'was brouiht
into thisgroom of Iutury; therefore you hasg
tily dressed in th 'p: eas o fPersiathe gold
of O(3h;' and the gms of ndi''that you
engage ienas your steward beauke I am a
priest of the Lord, aid yof love to have a,
pious priest abdut you. N w I'understdt
the mystery.  ou' mus tbe very'pions, in-
deed, my'lady " '
"And: what are your conditions, sir,'to-at-
tend-'to the fnctionis of a' steward?" she
asked, dryly.a
"My conditions are that you praythree I
hoursdaily, and cut the locks of your head
at thealtarof the Lord," 'said Jonathan:- i
" The e4 itiogn eare, thatyou bid farwelU
to all'le4 cticeatndabadpa    luptu-
our pas oi to the l1n  and,+s ulgar sinne .
My-conditions madammiu , arrather.severe;,
but iti-,,not easyt  e a sevarnt of anai
Asmoneaapd4 1    pn rtAgmonean'". '
Angrily ,Lhe ladyespped himsaying: ,c
34 y;dare you sped  thus to. 'a dy of
rank an4 eneation  P0you know,w ir, to i;
whom y n spea*?                        s
"T o af Nvo ou   Rv  n nZtat a'Q)t

agpi tted she eried: You shal lotple
this house yet!
"There is none to prevent, a Free
from doing what;he  eems  igh' was the
reply of  natna.
I have more seryant in tlys house than
necessary to tame a lion," she sid,  th a
snile on .herips.                  Nthe
j.",, .'R      'Y,   ut not slavgs enough to -l ngo the
mind of  free man," 'said opatah
Tell meyoung ma    she connp
with amile,     thealso wisdn_ anong
the peop e in the i 4s of whom yo grey
No cui ning, no ecetion, gentunehs-
1doni" Jonatan respoided, "geuine wis-
dom is among us"
"-IS it not wise for you'to te my steward?"
she  asked; lowly, a7nhg  arti ula tress
on every word. 'mI amnia aighty
Menelaus and Aolloniu0quai-rel    dtboit a
gracious idok of minie.  sw     a  rpe  in
this city much mightier than the kiig','
Am th'" ' '
Boast not too muchupon-theart5atr;
power of a lubric womian't "Jonathaninker,
rupted indignmntlyy M iterendd yo    rly
the more;'contemptible innthe'Fsight of 4;
righteous man. pity you.'Farewe lW  :
"Stay! I command it," 'she reared'-fotthe
inueh jrritated, " oxviglence "e=
" Violence is o word ,in my no nenela
ture " Jonathan rep.e4;rrylyg
" Or-you shall trembJle,' she added.
Tremble?,i.Trimble fore weman
In. truth, madam, yo mistae your man
s ,d oJgatiia, scornfunly.  "if yoawere,
nan, ere'this I wool d haye taughtt yn  tat.
onomustjoke withonathani benN4tath'a."
Theladysnik4d sweetly. "That irights't'
said she, ' L   , lovetoMse arma1oprend ad
onsgions.of hs sireth{ !. ho'e yod
ot.sunderstand:me, w enh 1'oly i teld
d to= try+.our  dep   en' , amni anigy
ha cter, Ygu t'onrthe very anntseng,
d J, me, the man wih    l high giit
ndgpnsrencess your. frisdand' fo d '
crihe4 yon Je egbr eiseo    hnd


prI   obey my will. Nonein this ietropb fore the servaits succeeded in opening the
"s dare discountenance  my wishs.   will doo
I. ,'uea ,o                              - "  l e  u  .cept,  "'as it come  far i thee, royal
izm'atice, ,tile g  and e5 6f 'txs    Je  sale" Jonatiii nmirffuliy
ard and'be master rofthe hoVe,' Iin a short "d, "Chtit  io cani, d itris wonioti rei
ti            o n     er'aihink gy ore overthe   0 tio   ast  inlowv eYl
faa  yof me." Then" ---her she top 'my beloved 1o1.-      Who'resies in you
ped abraphy for her seivaoi caeie in andder fine irI6n m  friemiled'  ' na h ti
sand e as  b   . t o' iterr ta the gnest asked a straiigedit a  ly  e
outside  id' atino ln on .   It is th eshruggd lis shoulder iaid +'n[le-l "A Wo
h                sa n;---- themii stammered  man," said 'he,  as there are many more
6hy'"e  edmitted,dow,' was ethehre."  He looked attentiely on Jonathin,
b&amp;e       .FWemithe' errantt 'withdrew then'lie oiuiea: d ou ae  montin-
sh9 ion n  d: "' hn i"e might determine  eer; t ii ieafrs;oT acqaietd;lh'thenew
to Ay toaeel ]n.'; Herl service state of affairs" "Yd'o    were in a temple of
snded     iArrassedad a bls    swifty Venus, twetmty mrof   lchich nowdisgrace
pas5 ovr he     ek.                     this city    the dgter of     enelau is
e 1I u    e or all, ny lad.  thebigpessn o'thato       ss'
satd etemintey,                w I wii rin.  Jonathanpoorly concealed thepamip ftsuer
st sIae         1sh   to ,retnre' o  ' praise which hapli 'perc'his
M0foM:the ;treasures ofth' sanouldo:1e. s  i sarp ,L
F   tasures"    1   a would   Ipressed his underlp betweenhis teeth and
si he'     a'e1!                     convulsively rasped and xre ed the1hd of
z-y the god of love, you shall not leave the stranger. " 1eware, young ma,, do not
before it pleases -neJ' 'he exclaimed,,with speak  one word of cen re; ro opplt ,'
a fnriits triumph -inher looks. She rang said the stranger, hong cautiously about;
an  amteelandan armedhostofsservants "fpr JIerusalei is fullkof gods, piriestsy e
rmshied io theroon      This man has of- diers andspies, andAay's j e is no valued
fei dudae'she said, "convey him yonde, higher than"4agoat's head.
L  exproper are of 'hm."                  ell me, prithee," Jonathan iptred
Jonathan for a few'nuoients gated 'othe   Where is the tlemlin which "enaus's'
nof                             pten; bdt Whiithe erynts ekne- daughter is highpriestess of Venset?"
ed' to arrest hi, h di'w'a dagger'from his  Jfyou know',.phek where once the ser-
girdle and'ehal=y declared   Whoeverly s vknts of God resided," the stranger 'iepleid,
handsonie shhll feefthis'iron in his heart. "'there, there-Farewell!"
There Was  terrifying aealnimess- in his,' The stranger hastened' Onward, but 5oiha-
countenu'ce, and'so stern 'deterin ation in than stood thee a iwingstatue. ""fphetgine
hi'kl°oks  ad the sound  f his voiee; that in the teinpi 'crf eanas  the"painfu1
the a1mehost ofsearvnts wa suddenly 'theght'thatnn o'absod hia'd iol soul
che kd and' hesitateda moment. x Jonathan, and'bight'hiieaiithdleefailciur.
ptetised in the handlingof,'arms instantly She whomn  e"oh7ide:ed niP angM' pare
tokadv'itte of thlymomentar' coaster' and itndiecat {esifaph 'of-ight andtoe=. he
nationgraspe4 he'word of the 'next iant whbminhe loved o'f oiltey and ro'sh ip:
wrxstdit from his hand ard sWung itrapi- ped as the id t'his heartshe asifie d-
Y     nim heed. "Come, ;slaves; i°you' 'atroupries ess,'aed6W oif Vnu   '
ne ers'h$e                    17noneanublX"  ie ex-  cenof i affe  o idv* ede  esa ed
claiod 'Ui     a   n ' e l avs, a'm " i o arkhu   eitlaisfesi C 'ld"ihasge.
hand.4 'f.2dagget hithe 14 he fought hehl of shoutzdemi_ dt rs.
4og irfia~se ely tieach'~bet''1 not tht Ie                       "at
~ Q~ztdkie. lke'do~ti*Vewith 'ule '2and' e~iM  'hMt "V                   f

T H ,                                            " 1'c'  iES
homie and beg my brother's pardon."  But this to be a feast after sac'ifibto 'gni oth
his 1 e was too mighty not to' iniagine Tpli- fictitioun g ds and. felt e ,l  -x'
egine ±ight have beenforceditothati posi " How low ddst tiou sink, virinii  dAtr
tionw by her father, and ats for he redeem- of Zion,'' he gelaieied, ovehelited t
er. "Then' fantasy draw a ropaintie pictire grief,'" if thus thypalaces aredeli thV
befb rahis tormented soul, how' she would air isrdesecraed, and}thi do is is6aple
receive him With'open aris and tell, him med!"',f''
that she waited aiid"wept; mourned 'and   'Crushed under the' bur fen of *6S"  a d
prayed, that ehe counted' pai-stricken the' sorrow Jonathan reached 'lie'paladeof 1th'
days of separation, 'and'pantid -ffter him prince of' the Sauhlh'n; "dr "   e'Il eh
like the thirsty roe after the cool rivulet-=ease my afflicted heart,",hethuight;'"  It 1
that she confidently would follow shim far, pour intto'his'bosomn.mijpain, my ore aflic-
far away from this oceanHof corruption, to tion, and he eertainly'ill distill th  bJh I
yonder mountains where happiness and sim- of' Gilead into m bttring= wou"id '" S e
plicity dwell, and love sways her patriarchal knocked 'at the gate; buthone' hoticedAit.=
scepter. '"So he thought and reflected until Againand again he knocked, Yhen ai oldi
he finally decided ,to, go and see .her. lie servant opened it  "'Is ny gracious piiko
bent ie steps toward the temple miountami, welland dan I see him?" Jdnathawksledi
when suddenly he .stopped' and soliloquizedl:  The man looked amaed at'theintruder:==_
'Shal Matatliia's son enter a temple of Ve- "The prince is in prison,'my sort'lie eaid
nus, 'set a bad example to others, and giWe after 'a while;  '3
to the slag derer ample cause to say Jonathan ,    Gracious God'i what'aes tthou old
worshipped Venus? No; I dare not, 'I will man?" Jonathan ried; iand' leaped'in'te
not do it.                               house; violently shaking therild'serva t:
The struggle in his soul was terrible.  Apollomu hant theprie' to      6
Love and duty, in sharp conflict, tormented on said the old'inan 'nel e  iI
in                     saidpstheoold"=man,"and 'thereIie'M'
his heart. Suddenly aihappy thought gush- loaded with ehainsr'"
ed over his afflicted mind.    Jose.ben     Where is'thit sanetined    s    h
Joezer, the head of the Sanedrin, is the containsthim the best and wisesta Israel?"
warm  friend of rpy father, ,"  i thought Jonathanasked, hastily:, ' Tell" zae O,
"he shall know my secrets and' his advice prithee,told man tell mSn;where is that ite'
shall guide me.'' Qickly he,bent his steps :eiotis spot? ] will' go thur0 t0d'kiti hi
toward the palace of the prince df the Sn- 'hoary=looks. I will ' held; hi'ream  shif
hedrin.        ''               '       chains. 0 God; what'in1 I? I willen i
He passed a mansion -from which hoarse 'hosts from the groundplogion s of wamrieyt
voi9es of s anmering:drun ard were heard  roni'tie offended air  God, what l*141--=
sdougtig'singii, cursing and swearing.-"Tinsiis4apolluted;aba idowed ity  w'I
Whileone parysun,:                      weep'away Is grief;I will ki the erth'
In'miage+l a  tou omrhe'enero iawine;  that bears, himin  ell me dwere is hissprim'
And feast on painted beds "--     on
Another party shotd"e""know not,                         id the' old aip  or
........:.....';....:.mor te gdts  are anybody see hint not evehisi em "ts
Rave dpiga'a not e done, tranm or oteto afl
In otr solemnities: have fill'd a seat,  ' Yet I' will' se'ehim speakl tovhimykisur
Where we have sat and made ourbanquet thbirs.  hi w n
Still another choir shoiuted~i                ;'wod ponl ,  ' "enithai o ale forth'
"  ith   ,iyilns d ne5e' u banquetend, at
The charms lengthen  punesth en    and away theahatene Q'e hitig M 1 ft'
Apll n  ~en  n dpOa ts  galon to gosze fter his' strange 1ina rt
A single voice then roared'forth~                            ~ ''" ~ '
" As for mpy:Me wall declares," ''    ',       C1AJTc, JY.
,Which my votiveeliet'bMais,  'E i      j ~ra~irA             H       Ir
To th sa'getddeltian  nhg         In the palace of the highpriestlthi ga
The noise o  @i'   gnj4 rniiing  unk- digntran augs4hioite 4alon  eti'
a4, was 'audi~lgeligejg~oye a~Wfre privstpgooml1nh forh deg
songs' n  i orusses. Jonathan imagined Glreek vestments of the ricest style.~~~
3


18                   T   E. FIRtST    O F
T                       E, z.,.,TOFlrd,";ad  g."1 cranlibelieve,  ;
,"          y  oord pertainlye       ergr to he sentinels In.a few ipoments,
the    o o al            are in a state of Azmran, whom iwsawn Modain, Ai rf
o  0 " blliop~.     living soul has come comically attire wtl patches o various,
r    t r  days from the north colors and a high hat resembling;a ent
of ~ e4ae_":A    le° who had orders to horx on i Jbead, was, ushered iixo h  i'es7
rep'$ 11   aye e  dy'to:Apolloniuslhas enge pf the highpr p t. Graviand di   y
no   aen heard from to this lhniir. No re- were forgotten, both Menelaus and ;' o 1
port I[  . the pmll arrisons}abovereached laughed-loudly on 'beholdin, t"e de ' mned
t  ,   for'two days, This looks unusual. fool. He, however, !fpeared not  ti  ce
gne rebellion on the moun- this, but most. unconc rned danced around
tans, and thing g else."                 and sung:
igno   ths fr foget       " Times are hard, they all cotlpplain ;.
hose ignorant-men thus far forget  None is pleased, troubles reig.
tl;i          and Ithe well-being of;their    Fols aremdAgt prieatt e eY'
o0r ec0      saidMenelaus, c' as to resort   A fool.I amoIs i gand rhyme,x
dance and joke, and kill the time."
towv   n     ey ,wi1 soon repent, and suffer                v       {     .} (  ,";Qatafo-  h  gpis-el
gt&amp;d~v   they   in the :face of .Syr'    "   thou arta fool" te ighpriest ask-
ed, after a hearty laugh.
ti err a ess.;ivocb e ecr nof Thou hast said so, Amrarin respo d .
-  'ii  htya};h . d gravely. u" 13t1 take care thait'thou bewise
8dd eath, Theiod A'smoen exercises g
oWhat sayest thou fool?" the highpriest
Sate inflence }one,,the  ion une  :Heo  .
is too prudent and considerate to 1e:hurled inquire
1 say, look on the foot and hearhis folly
auto elch an abys or staer-his: friends-to t
.      ibthat thou ma est laugh 'at'it and not commit
beo tus mtecipitated into  he ermbrace of de .:'.                  l  ra     e
structi on, crttniwAnd, hevtable.  -h old;it thyself  Amram replied  Gr  men
.e                       d    o commit great follies, and need big foos ;o
m a ao bred in theahon s den. I do niot
.                 show theain their own" faults. Thou art "the
ysehe    ,niopen teeh lon,°                   :{ '  t                t .a
,                 .greatest man m 'te country andI-,am.t e
or the sake of the innocent and igno- ..        i
rantmoutaineer; said Alcymos, " I hope         f      n       etmaI*
.p .             rah "lien he:.danced again ndsung,
you are.right, my ivine lord; but 'circum- rai    T     a  ucdagiE      ndsn
.es  g fv with 'Theocritus:
sypresumption  At Sparta's palace twenty beauteous maids,
TJivefe ?,   gave strict orders to the senti- Tha.p.id orf ,rece, fresh gariandocrowe'4 tir heads,
Sto- arrest any andr every bodyco-  With hyacinth and twining parsley rest,
y'CO t ro g   va afrl Menelans'marriagt feast,  ""
fyosi th e o.nutains, and bring him to -  'Whe.tq vely tengreat ipgg conqn, ig charms,
. ,     .     e~gh~dh_ rwllhsng beauty to hi's aiiis;:
Apollpuas will be firiois, if 3ny presumxp They danced around, joy tHow'd from every tengu,
tio proV~estor'be :rtre, .             And the vast palace sounded with the song."
An    js     s,, s    t          .      "You do not mean, fool, that Ishould
, .' wed you'?                           tie highpri est as ed, 3o ingy.
"Rebllion witlinoutthe lest hope of:success  e you?"ri thoa hlris' a o
" ~~~                           "Irme'an', thou .sfrouldst awd''i'fo ' '
is almost tillla ous Cer:ime. A thousand in- said Amram," 'that thya:o iv a
nocentagerinpare thus s ificed to a bloodyste raa thatradon ,AtQav
terpart; as-the: sacred ;lawordains  t have
phantom, a thousand widows and orphans a helpmate opposite-i
are made. to shtis1fyrfthe fanatical-zeal -of a  "Knowest thou,     h 'thatt hkg
few ecentrie"."en .and the: shackles of op,                 ;-
tP-'forbids:to spea  of' the ;sacred ' ,r ?'the
preseign tares drawn tighter and heavier on  .
the arm sandnecks of. the surviving multi- Amraeliedn    ...;_  _,
Amnram replied ,in:Mogg ;t
tude,f Submission is the best poliy where   "tThe kin ,forbids to .pak, they say,
pow er dictatslewsa to Weakness. ',' I         OI-        C , -        '
M'    dAloymos..rcaughtaman who            or    a           pr      ..
came directly from the mountains," said a     nut rQisayasp kja aytoge.
sentinel, on entering ti lghpriest's apart-   " No fool can 'halm  po tar; A
a No mouse can'hbt'll onslr s
ment,'anu port to you forthwith as you      The wiiesare strong'asis tn'ty-hate
edd  'adAnd patriots,'ande Ihttoutness.
"a~t (hin be brought her"the high         dac         and'ok t  'tme
p~it~i   etd Alcytnos? Who repeated-thle  TheW Amr     a'idA'ea:iily "ad 'a4 ~

irid'dtgain lbs refrain #util the' high like n ad , the trees' r i re  $i1
priest 'stopped him. "Take care, 'young. thee, the caves are"fi1let   4,
ster,  e s        am a    t, hou art no precipices fleas dance thl   y
'Aoao    to.i.h u'I ra as far and' fia
fmriatodh s horn-like high'hat and of- am "
brel it for sale tothe 'hiigbpriest.  How  "Fool if thou tell ni
S :.  ,    t    i.
much wilh thou pay me for my 'hat?",   . words where on the nmop
"What shall' Z ,ake of thy hat?" the 'A   misad      I          h4
highpriest asked, iillingly.t
'hou shalt shortly have need of it, to they fight not salAn'
look like'a decent fool,' said Amram;  'for ca-st lot do it; for theyfight eve
if T am no 'f6ol,' thou must be one, and I,
Amram   the Levite, am'wise. For I am     oakd indithe      l c         9'
nhat thou at not  Enage'me to teach theefw
:.  " ' "                                 Eve ! J "ryw heri th str '*T r  nniiei nipa
rhyming, ingmg and dancitha't thy foll"-         rhrn11r °
Yes, 6n"the hillsin the ervis" sai
be  amusing;  unless  thou  be considered.an  s  nWa h erever ..Zlooked, thre : ,
ram.    Whiee       loethr
inolerable g o.- p{-,
lht, whithersoever Ifled, I ran into gat:
"Were dost th  ome from, fool?" Al- g         . .      .
mc      o       l?" A - ed",Did it begin in Modain?" AlcymosM.
eymos interrupted.                                 -                        ,,
ed again.
"I nn away from the mountains; from
-1 when Laat in Modam the fi hto
Modai did I run away,' said Amram; "be-        n"                t
to Moaam, said Amram , t'but, whoeI
cause, there. are :so  many fools -there; now
, to any village or hamlet, it was there every
that a decent fool can .no longer earn a de-
-               ; - where.
cent livd g'he kill each othe i      '  here."   '.                    A
.They                            joke,   "We know enough, my divine lord,"lsaid
with naked, hands they catch glittering       o  t      .
Aleymos to thesr highpriest;" It iscetigin
swords, with wooden clubs they break hel- h
, ~.the- rebelhion has -broken out Con lie ment.
msts, shelds, 'thoraxand breastplate of pol-:tme."   '         't'
.                                   A rebellion!  said Amianistonishe&amp;
toying silver dazzle not their eyes, they"Ifto                          e
throw stones andIf "I had'-known they- wer eto :have a-rebel-
hrow stones and   eyer miss their ai-lion-oa                            I
hism- arrow     L and-ymg lanes ;are fupny,
ile to see arebelin; Inever saw 'one be-
eeatureso them;te  tikothem as they fore. People talked so mndehHofrebellion,
fly ith rough sticks. Tlethey blow tu r thatI am n  ioti to seethe thing."
pets and-sound thej40og of the;ram;jump,    at is
leap, roar and :kill like op rage, xons.             a'  rebellion n in.thy'estimatin;
Ith       ,esjie                  fool" the highpriest asked; signifleantly.
..In truth I esay, here a n g Ve,
.  J'o  lhymamiorsong in all t 0naady t"  ' 4"It is poor mends holiday, they   ' .t 7m-
Menel'aus ard=A'ldymo  haddJistened 'at  ram defined "when they want little hie
tentively towhat Aniram-said, but they ap- much, and' eachs i prhi.T        they
peared not tounderstand him; for the latter dance with flambeaus,eas  pon'sl   drink
said:   S e6k mobeintolligiblf, that my di- red wine and play withknives,  'p
vine lo±d'uiderstand thee.             must pay the bill. I would like to6see the
' Speak0-notie tinteigibly thyself, if thou fuh."  ' '"':'
canst, 'Anranm said,' ard be no fool.--    "He is a fantastic' fool," the  elpidst
Noie'speak onethe   ioiltains, everybody whispered to Alcymo; "his-information is
roai; ~ 6  esimg, each man fights, kills or unsafe."
cis killed. 'Thle odd' mad, and'the young '"Still 'we mut Ykeep him hee ttt tiil
rage; oId'womeri'howi'like fu-ids; and pretty hiim t6 Ap "'nifer he
ghs apibbleof Nemesi    and Eumendes te     wlat he knowsis      thou     ni
as theoght.hey were i Grece.' Hftddcould light ' Mo    "      s      r
I rnderstndthxuifif they do not unrderstad  "' No, I heard~ thums ~elf, er  oaso
themselves ? How could 1 speak intelligibly curse andI clash ar ns," Amni sad' e1~
if itlkthiirand persons a're'unintelligible? I t86kr m  ha and rna to see~eI4
The tliottatatinr@ae Oi ie, the 'rocks juinp dtineed, sunig, r ynied and j3ed 6 ut'i*


Tzi FIR T o0
here   ,a oQne to listen, then heksa favor of me? And why4oes Jonu.
c ne men wi i ,words;and lanes; and away atl ny pity me?"
i  a:". "EgAther time, my lord, any otler time
Canyubtpll v ho was fighting?" Alcy- I will tell you," said Jonathan. "' Now
mos further inquired.                  grant my ,payer,.let me see the prince, Jose
ye     $.m4n who has fsts'and every wo- ben Joezer. 'Do not refuse me this lastfa-
a snailsls" said Amram. "The vor. In remembrance .of ,all the1 love, any
ch hire  screaisec, th  dogs barked, and 'I lord, I felt for you, grant my prayer,",
ran away.;  then e walled the room ap-    "Rise, Jonathen,,and. pray1o more, -you
pa   t i ut ausederg tiodn ofatnho d, shl  ee Jose hen' Jpazer,"naid the high-
A        s 'hi-ute  d '  ''r' f io"d p ent spesa oBunte  opatprni advice4 do
he°                                              o    ordnto-uh, 6nt one word
t he~ r {wasa sadead' woman, here was that could identify your sentiments with
reeking blood. Grim.nvisages andidead men those of Joseben  9ezer. Onp word too
*efabO1 tatthill;"o nder  reanined a host of much miglit cost your life. But now tell me,
dhdide  did they 'not run after me as why you pity m .
:hd    Iwsi a fes'a lion or a hart?" "On  "Let me be dumb nke y'n er wall, my
af                 l     r      ? "id~deti he ran behind the chair of th lord," Jonathan prayed; "let' me shut up
hnghpriest iind screaxined, teri'ibly: "'iould my grief in this torimented losin never
not return to the mountains! Highprlest, speak -of it.
e ~thj chirxns, Ashlanal; the prince of  "" iisist," said the highpriet. "Speak!"
bso ne    s to take mo-b k to the' menu- "I obey,"' said Jonathan- :"A' Meneaus, so
tgnsd'                        ''       rumor tells the'story on the n ountains, the
Half laughing and half trembling the high iest conspired with Apollonits against
.iMh iest silerideddhe screamind nanwith his innocent' and defeneeless people. 'The
h.eapuomsep that Asheiadai had no poder blood four brethren shedby theyhirelings
inwtheeighp iest's:house: Jut ni ra m was of Apollonius' in the lanes of Jerusalem
not satisfied tillhe was promised the place falls on' the, head of Menelaus. "'MustI not
df 4ino i ;the highpriest'stc.olfrt.. , pity you? Menelaus, they: say, the high-
{ouathan ben' iatathia was ushered into priest'of the Lord of H  ts is; hear it'tnot,
ti pteeneh oftheihighpriest. 'He -fll up  Alcighty' ruler inheate;, he is' the priest
ont one Aneeiwile amain, cried, 'ikis of'Jupiter and=his daughter is highpriestess
Ashingdaislordsave me,he catches me"of Ven s. He isa traitor 'and'an apostate
Alcymod took-A  ram to theapartment ,of they say; mnst I not 'ity you? T came
the ;serantspwkhenJonathan couldseeak: from Modain to ascertain what truth- there
"M   divieloyd, Ithere ws a time when is .in this painful ,uror, I hihI could 'not
you toldone, I love thee better than ayown believe''atil  y  P- yes have 4.seen;ny ears
pildrp ey                        ,    ,lhave lheardt enpgh to.torpet : e;for a life-
P~f4Jnow 4d eJogatga  ,ow that Ido time.. I pityyou,  I piy mysf;, and pher
~(  9 ipre? '  enan ,  k, ,.,,        gin e-,hat-shall I say.of-bprI " ,  . a
phsgis highpriestes, ofVens" he  " It takes a =mantogompse n  mam'
d, "ad,       y givinelo  '---       said the high priest, ".and y n are ai,,
"Didyou come to call me to account for myj om. ' Laurespongible fgrtkehppiness
hatd,       Menelausaske,      .   'andwelpeing p        nthispation, :iYust kntow
d t. Howw anl judge with when toyielin p rdcrtogain, andhex p,
the servant of the Lord of' Hosts?" ,aid sacrifice i:order{jo spare. . Lethe ol ldo
J   ..1." 1ngo prahast favor aps            do,TA nLaP1of t'p~1twill be hgpyar -. -
d     vyne 14 -'r all th do    al ghe Let them popposeithewil peawro p. ' r
yaagn I ae~         fogg %ipihy    noy ria an4 they dg their.own graves 9z44 lhpny
fe for ypgfgr telpve yihayeghoyn mpr their own chains,, Jonathan, true   ias
4 ,bg n eg   avo   Ip   ne see the 4oin is to useaprevailing nireunmstappgs to4hp
~~ ~pitngs       e? ',lnhighgrigs$    f Tis isatrue prudence,"bsaid4 tihagu
ad tells We t94' niae14%9t " bu? Wype wis4om is infmitely noa ji 4pp

Ti   4OCQAB'EES.
:sti atio aof he ad.Jquatha . The begin- They are sa eets;of Spyiaand.itbehooves
n  pgo wisdom~is the eax of the Lor  nad them to obey and waitifor oiher;ties"
Qj'' sts pinacle.  Prudence Js_ v or d-.                         F4-"i
oe      iss gindl.  Pruden ce      r-     My lord, if the king of Syria'believes
wisdof is g      wly. Prudence mry be the these f myriads of Israel re createdto *or-
1hand-maid of vice, wisdo isthe cQuaiise1r' ship his' whims and satisfy his lusts' he is
of Virtue. .Ny lord, thus wisdom is unde- gravely mistaken,":isaid Jonathan. "  he
stood by those who know; nothing of EpiAftrthermore,.thinks they wilt much :long
cure or corruption. My lord, there is no suffer all the, outrages committed'on them,
wisdom in your conduct."                on their religion, .their an'tuary,:thoirights
" Call it prudence, I call it *isdom,,and I and liberties, he again believes adahselodd
neverquarrel about words," said Menela  The worm in the dust as the smallestinsectin
somewhat embaraed "but forgetnot that the-air is armed with stingIto-defend itself
the goyer"npriseldom understood by the gov---
when its existence is endangered  :rael'a
erned, but alwayss enviedand criticised.-- -e,             .
existene- is, endangejredsand' a venomous.
Rulers can not be guided by the conceptions stein
A_.         stig of selfdefence will soon show itself }to-
of the vulgar imultitude above whom they .t atonishedAntioehu
,he.sonshe Atiausad .his servants.
are placed, their ninds must be superior to       -      -
" ,  ~The mountaineers, silrde  ve. boen subjects
the mind of the millions. Rulers must be                -h
j  r    .of ,Sria ,as 1long a their human andsnational
respected as superior men, and obedience is right
-a - a                    rihtswere' respected .  Antiochus broke
a. civic virtue.
Obedience to virtue is a civic virtue," Jothe contact and-the revolution is ripe.,-.
th     t     d                       Verily,;those outragedrpatriOts are notweak,
na. an interrupted.
Yes, my son, it is so," Menelaus contni- they are morally certain ofsuccess; for
ued. "       .Still what i justly called, vii-tue they know that rebellion :is indispensibly
with the'iidividual inay be'vicious with this necessary .to, save the existence of Isr e1;
ruler;andvthe vice of a ruler  abe the they know, furtherinore, that there is' God
vi'-er; a ndie              lay      who promised never to e xt' gosh   raol
virtue of individual. :The ruler stands  onh  omnetrofntos
higher than the individual; and his position, hoo                      ylord,
his stafdingpoiit to look on uiingsor per- thegy  jfdgment      e   e
sois must, be much loftier., fie idividual 4ntiochus ind his eyantagilurly:e
dae not kill b person, the ruler must often drivenfrom this land and thqty I
sacie athphsand'to 'a'a myrid"         ou will find, that the lad Jonathan",,,
' That'dse 'myriads saved look with ab- -'fTs a ,.false prophet and afantasiealokt
boirence 6n' the  innocent blood 'ofthdose who-sees not' that he speaks:f i posuibilk
-tkouafds,'said Jenathen, "and avenge it ties/' the. highpriest interrupted, jokingly..
in their just 'w kth.'                 '4 haveimportant business nowto trtasaet.
.Also"thy is Visible,' said Menelaus UoandisesJse ben Joeser, return.thiaeven-
.biptther therfler has done his dty  nl ig, and ,we: shall go to see.phegihe  ne s
the ofiies of'the executioner begins "' _' will be quite glad to see her companion
a' Woe,-"if an outraged anddowntrodden, agi
people take both oflees in th'ir owthands  "I w go to=see' Jse'ben Joezer," said
said Jona har s "Woe to Aitiochus-and'hjs' Jonathan, with a mlancholy vibisd "thet I
servantsjifthe Lioui of Jdah -breakdasiin hall return to iny mountain home 'tf6tinurh
der the chains they forged around his:nek: for Israel betrayed 'by rits own fatherif6r
Meneltius; myloi hidyour .phinosophy'then Iphegnibetraed by hronp ather   for
does riot desettibthe lad Jonathan2n'ust Jonalthan abandotted by his patern~l friei.
be nwAgn mistakenm"               ,    till dreep'atear Ifor 'Menelans, ns'the'h
s "So hg isi' said Menelaus. '"' The pqw r weeps for his lostfather  ffareben!"
of Ay~oihus istoogrpat,-my aon, toke suc- ,, !And ndt'sedi~rs'Iphegine?" ilie htgh,.
eessf4gJyopposed.: The argnies Mf yriaean priest -askedeb'otnewhat moved.s 'a
ga o vanquished bye fewm poor a4e o M And not ses the highpiestege te-
feeeleaogntaiuern,' They may",sacrifice uswasihs reply            a
thesives. id theiriungoestjamilies  ith  ' iAd paricipateinthe rebe#1Hon?1Men-,
fsuea$i goal; but they eali efeet nothing.--. clagshfurther -asked.u nkad


T v~  A%  ~~

' u c  ft '0?

'f  l ,p   ae O' d, I W il,"~sid Jonathani,
' }vert~f'i say,4xthey-hi9ipriest vocifera-
led.   'Onwinykhp I'Jhave ±ookedthe-;Asimdxn
eamboy  cand biugt him ' upin lase ,nd fed
im th, ten es to' be fir "Iheglne's
IOW,an ds ndisow'rhe' th eteisto draw the
swrdag iist ne' Unrateful iiake I   .
* YIbll &amp; aif my s'oi~d aginst 'the done-
1ie         , 1tal?~said Jonathan  - letthem be
¢  f ~ ae t s my  bothnrsy m so1ybl   'sistr
1 hegine hetgeelE:..')eat lt toteeneni'ies of
god ai d Traci ,zjsthey  1y passion for, whhih
my.'heart is seseejtiec } Let mxe be.uni-.
f r t f l 'to niy   hefCatot-ii ~t ridneI'sliarll
fi i   °mfrgetfal 1,of 1th. diitiea 'I"6bwoe t m
aders,':the¢  high ries&amp; t said; +a :aliid
tone&amp; : , ' For get' n ft;,'tha t YMatthis} is ithe
lust :of  t e'noble Asioxeatls. °If 'he. eid his
:sen partk~ipate i  'his} reellio , 't hit"d&amp;
t&amp;etion'i eertaiu   tid' the~hon's6 of, the
A:s neans uo  ore 'ta,you with mxe,,:
they  cit in'_ of &amp;to4oiM i yhat 'your
name;0Abe' b tl51otted out in 'Esi aeh'_ '
1 4Lt the" anie c4 th'e A ihne an betikiiis-
le fro  ith tohe  r   settt b&amp; -inscribc4

d  st  h;t  A si d at i  iY the   betro thfA'641Ihit
iPon, j oning the rebe 9 Fand Ij;ins. a  n
'eTbve o4 m5' d phe line' it    dnot
dt  lh. i'   t  J''  v.he',' rhekr  '' oiel
ithee     x   i, p ittedto 'go out de y s
"t esi" 4I c    foisoii .you fto car 'rry   ouiittmy
Trhe highpriest left the{apaitme'nt ;'A
xids was if i1e , ' "Ah;, i ths thie s erei;"he
soh oquized "  this  thxe  aueeo f my f'ihiOre
with' Iph gi e ' Ab  t I, that I  iAof
M en Thlai  drove his " otfir tTr6 the
iii gl ire .s19s ci  o ccup y'i isei~ i;eii
elaus passed the health *~h6    i4'e-
lon s to otlicl's;  im fst a Well 'lawfiiI
c~~~in,,i of ce and te   "of 4P I A  or-
Eune Wh'Iich Ths daughitei e h  d must rig
'men tI am'not fool 'enough   to 'w tcI ;o Ver
thiatdangerous- rival) that. lump ,Joni4han.-
There is a will and I will find a way to, dis-
pose ,of, him, then Iam, safe. Go. dust'
zight, ,that he ;s- i;inmy hadU  Hle sat
a *hile appal ently lost i  aoftoghs
then he caleda servant a*nd -lpered -o
lhim : 'o to' the Veniis 1e pje -near' the
llo use of ;I1anasspb here ,yoil w ;lnd the
'Wv ,Y r  t  S '   'A    ' 2'jS.

+ei    uit.ie r'  ood Ahh h 'kFrohicl'es ?nOW proc eda to, the- Tow  Q~tl9~iia~
Fti  y  at  of 'dlidt poster ity tro tosee }ae bn jOover.  e  'it
1be.                                     '7 'lsr i , tf .i.J  " .7 fsite r l .et  to arrest' idxns  u
ii gt t bih toldof 1sraoV « rndop nd " .o. Feuds  i he . l   ist   r,4i~end
10ou i~o4odi~      al olive for in!  leryr, an yam&amp;."  Ie. gavye is~ ac h  4u
ovrh4orth jta eol  e4a xps 11spred.of ,,money to the se ry nt and, d s n~~hi
.9   t  h~et own'PfY'y  ian  t f~x  ta th   Aspasia will manage.'    Ot s.
tr a i es of t th e  swoull 4 tar the stgil ie  ;i'%, d if heyes p  r e' itwill
meit oxsn ~~ ndx the sting it" fl3 souls't do for oto, 1et ajphegiiiet kw Pir # hl
hatosuviednyfm ilJy      iue or ing shoplid was i  the, . eplpof  ..e'~ns
fgefulness  of my duty.  go to retulinio Ai i~Iu  ~aa'      le  etaa
e'        iter..',Jerts01l04  triumph eyid tiry t d tigwh : ,q p Q4a  f
°           befu  t, owe llegine, sid th~fonl,_4mr, ": y&amp;~rwipe were
ewre U ll4e r;re n o6 ad awe@  eerie : tdo Aoud   ¢!aour forgot' to 'Free1 erii th  foo l
.4yin tl      W" his tear#1 Mnelu,         i    em     el a '' 4;
k   r:tc tQ he i; send t ll iei; =c t  4yi ye pia d:i ell oit.your diabelide heii ±#
Mayr# 4 Go , .'atha t a. r pi ',r  l etray you to your enemiesasI d'ab ofI b
ait'yohu., 'R euoat~t   ie pent
after Jo' t  iwa gue    iflut .ii  z xAbandoiei  what      I ay 'cAiid  e
es4 an      hll ta ' ;,11Fra g; a bell,' at dp n~.~tDid A&amp;he i47,tvem'lie ~
a 'va  ' eint re&amp;  ' J(Ia Jord %Aloyni os' we for_ a e ~~ti I awoi awa with ia
se nte r ed .  "Jonh  a-n +en  toati;the} e4ln~  M~h ove po; bithO 4;n$h

23,

"

4

r


(t tfld i li  ae    thet ,' itia ith oi ters, and
ietstel ;~i ik- bn lefi tdiet1 lb tli ofd1 a an 7 diI
Sd Miend redniand; without saying another 46g     On
en s     o "is af  iiig in the stredtbeforeit atoderthe
o6eri4Ae fool'Airaf, w1o6 ds the diinr of all fh"
Sieiihll e' imerriment, still danced,) sung and joked o6
ithe liuh"' the'infilitamaduseientof a 1ii±xd multi-
&amp; ,   ith ev  'dtude.  nifbaer faSylian soldersattemjt-1
i      iiti heredst~dvi4hii away, ("ie peristed in his"
sd' rapid ' staying 'and singing many hyaes. always
lea    eft'an  ending  iththe refrain:
the cuseof         .'' 1' on piay, on themva3I say,
n5 aioneo  by orwa  y I tay."
0   b heoldi ngonahan. he rpng - o ndl y
i      his refrain, that the former was obliged to
the. patry- notice it. -hatvery  ogr  howater,-.
and4 like ur         ,  .t..very. s nient,  owev.r,
number of'armed menkbadeJ atan tfo
n o'l them, s' their "psoner, In the ainame
of ;lord loyn osn I proteto"  oife  ep "oo  d
yofrom th      We oe him protect.
"' Inthe  aime of'the gods we re( m"
,y  rm     vociferated the other. "He dese age4 to.
temple of Venus with a violent hand. He
s  j  -must be punisliedtoappeasetthe wrath of
s       the goddess." ,The armed men tu rounded
e   Jonath n, pressed-himbetween he irai ld ;
Tellthe      andefoe    heold think of y ibt     ha
me o   saude were1 tied. g   i    os
) '*r1 {y:,1bad ~?t&amp;. Ag n i/hool s n
e o  ed1,. s     ;A5thoi,   y owa wy  0 sa''"
die" can u                 thy w ays Isty,-  '

disgustrig=an impression on'Jonathan, that
he oea oimed, " My hands are tied,.but iny
duilifree 'yotir vietry is very small."
"Will you:hear neJoniathluM?" she ask-
ed with amelodious and affectionate voice.
'My ears are not tied, hence I must hear,'
he replied.
.,,"1 resorted, toviolence," she said, "as no
other way remained to ee you again, to sate
isfy: this ,loving heart., So hear - it, .hard
,man, hear it that your -anger be appeased, I
love you with all the glowing energy of Ia
woman's best affections;"
".Hear it not, Mother Miriani, blush, sis-
ter Rebecca!" Jonathan exclaimed, wildly,
" thy Jonathan. is loved by fallen -woman,
by a priestess of Venus.-Say you hate me
like death, and I shall thank you forit. - If
there is left'you one spark of female kind-
ness, do not torture me with 'the lie, that you
love me. Desecrate not this holy Word, I1
prithee, besmear not thatsacred affection'
with this.slander,Jlet vile lust not be called
by so solemn a name,'that Idespair' not on
the goddJike nature of man." .
'"'Ijam prepared for your wrath," she
said .calmly, "you :are angry' because niy
servants caught;you and tied your hands.:
But I will untie-them"--       ;
"If thou doest I will choke thee to death,
I will crash thee to;atoms in, my arms," he,
cried, (  and thy host of4 servants shall not :
rescue thee from my iron embrace. No vile
woman shall ever dare to boast,,she touched a
.the hand of Jonathan, who is a priest of the I
Lord; she untiedd the hands of him- who is y
the son of Matathia."'            ,
. -  fi
Didst thou forget, that death is the pen-
alty," she continued, "if I say you desecra-
d
ted this temple of the great goddess?"
I despise, thee and death," was his an-
~a
swer.
Aspasia paced the room -in rapid strides I
laboring apparently under a strong exite-
menuFto which she disliked togive vent..-- sj
She struggled successfully against, her an- n
ge, and when cprposed, again she satadown s
by, his se an thus rgeumned the conversa- io
tion: "So I will not- touch you, Jonathan h
henr Mathia; .Jt/you shall hear my story,s ei
and then spel again.  aip sure, then the ti
violence of yonr anger will subside.-I aM (
the augtrf a po8et       germ d$ Tibeia g
14 ~~thz! ie4  efee 1o~nl  e~tm

her name: A hard step-mother''drove )
from  home.   Barefooted 'andseep ig'I
went from Tiberia. to the south'andsB te d
a morsel of'bread till I reachedtersaliir
Here a kind 'woman, the daughter bf'adwial.
thy citizen had compassion upon me.ianwd
took me into her house.f Hannah tif'w ic o
of Joshua (so washer nae,) brought me
up likeher own child 'and loved me asher
own daughter, I learned to fear the hord
and keep his comiandm'ents. Mibeaut
attracted many wealth young aen, among
them was also IHiram'ben.Simeon. Ilovd
hin and, at the age of sixteen i' became'hip
wife.
"Nine happy years passed away, I had
only one child,' but I loved it as much as the
blessed loves herften-children. Hiram died
I was a widow."  Here she suddenly stop.
ped, and Jonathan was not a little astonished
to behold tears in her eyes. -She dried thern
up and continued: ."This was only the'be-
ginning of my ailictions;' for when themnor'i-
tal remains of' my husband yet laid befo r
me, my .childwas stolen, that the relative
of my 'deceased husband be heirs to his es
tensive wealthy-- my Child Was stolenaiI
fonidit no nore. My eyes were 'early
blind from weeping, .my heartnearly 'broke
under -the heavy burden-of my affliction
but there was no ,mercy for poor Aspasia-.-
One "morning I felt that I had wept enough
--I felt that my heart was as frigid and hard
as'a flint I could only think of vengeanes
I went before the judge and claimed 'the
wealth of mny deceased husband; it was re-
used to me; because widows inherit not the'
wealth of their -deceased husbands: My
owery was offered' to me, I refused it. I
uent 'to the $yrian' captain, to Apollonits
nd stated my claimA, and' he reinsta'tedime'
n the house and wealth of may husband,'but
lost rhy innocence." -.--==
A death-like paleness 'covered hier faee,
Ie, sat' a few moments dumb as thongh
mourned over; her lost 'innocene.' W'i
he continued, she said: "With4liedonIn
on of Syria'"came also 'rc'a n n
abits ad levity; withthe thatersgyrgia
urms, tempiles and games wee
meian setdy~ QOur~tq*s~~i

THE . =MACCA1i'1E5.


, $ 6                    ~  , T HE i
were  matter of ridicule to the witty and
enl ten d. Or, religious feelings were
pered way,. our, chastity was the object o;
e or  and gradually allfiell; there °are few
wbph fell not a victim to Greek life.. ,Ifell in
t   apns of Apolloniu, .o hers, fell, other.
*ie ebt corruption is universal"
"Ts there a sinner in this world who con-
soles himself not with his company?" Jon-
athan mur nured to himself.
"Nearly four long year. Lived in a pecu-
liar #tate of mind between dreaming and
w kipg," she continue, "lEvery look of
mineiset ahost 'Of ,rvants in motion to sat-
isfylhe'lowliest wishes of mine. The g-eat
and Fnighty knelt at my feet,ato 'rise in the
faor of Apollonius. Theafflicted bosom
ws covered with the'most preciousjewels,
with the, gems of.the sea. The mother's
aching heart, the wife's mourning soulwere
drowned in the splendor and,,luiury of Gre-
cisn affluence, .ad' 'intoxicated withten
thousand noisy pleasures and lubrie games..
I had no time and no muse to awake from
that, wild.dreams, although I knew well,' it
was a.wild dream from which-I4once must
awake. When during the lastfeast of tab
ernales the. young men assembled in the
courtiof females,.in the temple and .played
their sacred games, Ilwag there to look down:
upon them from the termporary.gallery.-.
First, ,I felt a frigid contempt for, the sons of
my peop e who' are so simple and artless .in
dress and manners, if compared with the;
gp y and tasteful Greek., But then I descried
an athletic, stalwart youth with rich black
cus and a piercing look. ,Health, strength
and innocence smiled from hisglowing coun-
tinance. ,Ascarf pf white. and blue wound
around his waist distinguished him from the
rest so, that my looks coul4 follow him eve-
rifwhere. 1He was the quickest and mostzex-
pert In the games and won the laurels eve-
rywhere. j went every evening to-see him
and the more; ,,saw him,, tie more I desired,
to' ,sep; him., When he, was 'gone I awoke
from my dremethe :intoxication wa, slept
pway. I elt wretchedly, I knew that I was
a afl  woman. 4But Iconsidered myself
u~o Jow thatcsould rie no more to
V~rt~~$ aStityvrol'the ~sreng hand 'of
th4~qutb no~eth~edeal of manly beau,
t*~'~ vah 44en ited 4ofoget aJimein
v~)44i~[4y tlW~~ nry gel gi inathat

5UT OF
ocean of, pleasures, as I didbefore: I could
e riot 'forget him,:I couldretar no  ore to
f my wicked life. I began to inquire after the
name of the young ,Adonis, gnd' I.was told
his. name was Joniathan ben MatathiaNaw
thou ,ktowest the, whole ,secret. Condemn
me, if thou canst."
"It ie' ell for you' that you did awake
from your sinfulness;' said 'Jonathan.-
Comewith me to my another and my sister
on yonder'mountains, and learn to lead 'a
virtuous life, learn to-be happy and content."
"To the endof the world I will follow,
thee!:"  he exclaimed, enraptured.'But
will I be safe there, from Apollonius?"
"Liberty dwells on the mountains," said
Jonathan, "  the sons of Matathia will pro-
tect you.
"And I will live anew in thy love!," she
exclaimed, frantic with joy.
"My love is not for you," he said, dryly,
'for the Law forbids the priest to wed the
divorced 'woman, the harlot or the dishon-
ored."
These wordsfell like a thunderbolt crush-
ingly on the;heart of Aspasia. Too sudden-
ly she-fell from her imagined heaven of:love
.and happiness, to be directly"composed.-".
She screamed 'ike a mnd woman, soy that
her guards rushed into the room. "Take
this man yonder and watch him tilllbid
again," she commanded.    "None shall
harm him, nonel'give him offence; but with
your lives you are guarantee for him"'
"To what purpose will ybo detain me any
longer?" Jonathan asked. ' Ihave' told
all and everything I have to tell'ou".
"Whfat'shall be my piize on the moun-
tains ?" she asked:
"Virtue is its ,own prize," was'the  an-
swer.
"Can the law be changed?" she asked
passionately
"The law 'of the Lord is 'edrlasting?"
he responded.
"FTor the last time I ask thee , prod As-
mooe'an, before I strike this drum and sm-
mon the servants of thie'temple to lay hld
on thee as a deseraterof the teiiple;' she
said in a furious' tone, "'a~' the Ia* le
""Nben those timaas; niot 'It  8 sa

Tn,'MA CCAB          S.                         27
table penalty" 'shesaid, alinost ifuritted. erilbnfeondition,'and Ihastened t  re Cte
"' n the law be chaged? ~''          thee."
"rudespise thee and'death," he said.  'Now.onathan remiembered'the fool and
Sle&amp;struokthe drum;' ne, two, three, the his peculiar songAThe first excit eridncf
floor opened, and.a host of armed men canie the Meeting being 'over, Iphegine' sai' 'to
up from below.,' "This man' desecrated 'the Jon-than; "Why didst thou n t cone to
temple of' the' great'god'dess,"-,she roared me first? All this trouble could 'have been
forth, "take-him before'his judge."    spared."                   '       .
"Jerusalem is one den of murderers and,  This brought Jonathan :to, his ,senses.--
harlots," he exclaimed, when the servants Dumb and motionless, he stared moment
laidhold' on him. "I'command you to ab- into her countenance, then he withdrew his
stain!  a 'veiled', female, coming-through arms from her and:with tormenting pain' he
the door with a large train of armed ser- uttered the words' "ehe is hiipriestess'in
vants, commanded:,with a strong voice andsthe temple of Venus. Lord, my God, I have
uplifted 'hand. Allexcept Joiathan fell up- sinned .before thee.
on their knees in deadly silence.' One mo-  Iphegine looked smilinglyon him.  Fear
ment the white female stood there like a not, my friend," said she, " the 1highpriest-
marble statue, then she 'waved with her ess of' Venus loves thee with-alltheyouthful
hand; all rose; she waved again and all ex- fire, with'-all thte ardent' affections of'thine
cept Jonathanand therselfaleft the room.- Iphegine "
"You shall both tremble before me yet!" O'", prithee, sp eak no mre of h loe,
Aspasia said; withignashing teethion leaving that nameless happiness, speak no  orof
the apartment.- 'The white: female untiedt      d        ,o
thehans o Joathn, henshelifed  erthat, paradisian 'joy," he 'implored,- wil41
the hands of Jonath   hen she lifted  er drive'me to madness, to6despiir aA death;
veil, and before -'the- surprised  Asmoneanfotiyleismolyooert            lf-
therestoo-Ipheine  ne  smneanfor': thy -lovre is my  onily joy ,on earth, thy f
herestood-IphegmneCaneexclamation of delity niy only hope under 'the moon,' tidii
joyful surprise one exclamation of .,the art my idol, my'life; but I dare not,Tan
names so dear teach other, and Iphegine not love thepriestess of Yetus.
clung. round his .ieck with silent rapture,
and he pressed her cloerto hishigh bet-   "hark, mybeloved Jonathan, I' ab no
ing heart.                              ordinary priestess of Venus, she said, ha -
It was a breath of paradisian felicity for tily, "I am not one of-those women who
Jonathan, aftfminy'dags'of sore affllction, 'rship that goddess. I am the kajhpnieetess
after a tormenting hour and a 'critical me of Venus, a sacred ,and inviolable 'virgin
mneit between.lifeand' death. Iphegine on- dedicated to the goddess of chastity and
ly rejoiced in, the happineshofieetinghim beauty.' If thou 'canst not lote'iee/becamee
again, and in right time to share him' many king Ant ochus appointed me to' thin lhigh
a perilous 'houir'but for Jonatha th miim- dignity,the highest among wOein this
ute was linfinitey:more. He'forgot rebellion, land, then Twill return to the house o  yiir
trouble, crime aavengeance; hefrgot Ve father and be again Iphegine, thine,' 'all
nns and'her priestesses, Joseiand his tower, thme, forever thine.
Menelaus ahd his a. ostaeyand re6iced in  "0, be again Iphegine!"  s he-e elahn 4.
the hapy moment conscious only of the "Throw aay this' trumpery th ese ;pearl
presence 'of thebeauteous Iphe ine, the and diamondsthou artimore beast
partner of his youth,the io of hs heart. out theta. 'leturn,'to the house f hf fat i-
Ag iun   again he stared'into the beautiful e to thy God aId lmn. e .  'ain tiiy
c     .,'tenahe'of the'miides before he fully and mie, thati mayive d'ho'pi"  "
rebgniedhimsela a hrs 1" Thetn'gain    "Thu, onl beoe        oo   oith0'
hgr~es  heit ~unutte aidle    elight to do'not'nd fsandhtw Oen~~ttY&amp;s
93n($was dc' .Ailes pheinescusa
Wil htv  6et''goiti'"my 'ny bl oved NofVhs?~          oiis,~
N~'Ae~igWiky~ifennietiI love thee better wtoi       i   a    4
"the fool of my father informed me of' thy' f  iaedll? Fiptfi's speak W tdr-


T8 Tg                                r_ E[RAsT  07
sa4theeright. For a world.I would not than," she said.  "My ,father, gwever,
a l~rsi tand hee."                said: expediency requires that we submit to
In asurprisedbeloved,that thouknow- the king and dispen e with our religious
est notthe greatnesso' thre'crime, to be the cruples  It is best so for'Israel and Aa-.
prie tess, ota Heathen god, or goddess!" ron."r
sai4Jonathan, lnewest thpu not the com-  '"0 speak not of thydfatherr beloved," he
madmnt;9nof the,Lord,  thanrforbids to wor- replied,"hei a'servant of expediency and
ship other gods?"                      prudence, whileloewas annointed the servant
"Iworship no gods beside the God of Is- of the Lord. Whoever denies hisgodis an
pel' said Iphegine solemnly. '.Art thou apostate, aAd he whorimposes corruption on
so foolish'e to  believe, Venus is a goddess, his people is a traior, however expedient
.alreal' aud' existing 'essence? It is the pro. either may appear to.his fraili°itelleet. No
duet ofghelofty imagination of the Greeks man must sacrifice, his'manhood onthe al-
'whese oetieal genius begets charming forms tar of vile expediency; he must do right in
in sculpture, painting and poetry, Charming the }sight of God and Israel, carele~sof:all
indeed, because they :are humanly perfect. consequences.-"
'Ihesp ideals of -their.vivid and lofty imsgin-  "Thou doest not 'ean to say, my father
ation are palledgods, because they are the isen.apostaterand traitor'?" Iphegine asked
most ecelient Fproducts of the human-fanta- hastily:
sy. To prefer one ideal to another is'in the -"He is!'' Jonathan replied, firmly,  he
language of the Greeketo be devoted to that stands-accused of both, and he is:.--I know
a~ieular god or goddess. The beauty of' that Iwoundthytenderheart, my beloved;
for ,and, chsity in'their idealized state 'I know howdearly thou lowest thy father.A+
ma~ke a-Venus. I love bea dtand chastity, Still to save thee from this labyrinth of cor-
'therefore I1am a' devotee of that goddess.- ruption and wickednessI must tell thee the
King Antiocius considered me the fittest bitter words of truth."
person to do homage to that fictitious god-  Pale and weeping she sank on.the breast
dess, and appointed me. her highpriestess, of Jonathan. '' Take 'back' thy terrible
and I by advice of may fther, accepted it. words'!" she prayed. "-The enmity between
I tI worship 'only the God of ;heaven and thee and'my father=will crush thy -poor Iph;
earth                                  egine. Take back thy terrible aeusation."
phegineI sophistry and wickedness mi5l' "Iphegine, can none listenhereO, one be-
eathee1"he exclaimed, painfully. 'These tray us?' he asked.
lmagi ry deitiesark the source of all'he  ' None1 this is the severe apartment of the
impurity, injustice, violenceand'wickedness 'temple,"was the-reply.
pr etised among' Heathens, practised now  "All the pat iot think, as I do now,'! he
ingerusalem. These imaginary deitie are whispered.  1head thatty'fatherwas a
the o ly and sole source of' eruptiontothe taitor and 'po ta', but 'ulty  a lit g
heathens andEelenists, 'the word of God it. Therefore I cane toJerisalem. Hier
prohibits even to mention the nameof these I lea ne  pheg e, my.h'6a4 breaks with
a1,g4ationa which thou considerest so thine, hered I learned that th'patriots are
tt mning, Trth, justice and' 'virtue ,are right. The rebellion i      o.odl4will
the only ideals worthy of daughter of Aar flow as thewater in Jordan in the raini"se-
ro        ginating  produces enomities, son. Igo' to draw iysword forGnd
h thle ydrds of dod canftion us Irael,againstAntiochusaid hisservants,'!
wath meralg     e  Iphegipethou leglest  "Aginst my father!  sJnahii, have me
tih  l  t theorptig of thy pegle to, cy with Yphegine's loingbeart!" she eried
b                                n'thy God, and ha  bom intion " It'is iatricide for hi  fonienider
TfAao'yg s~n, Thw ay him alsogf th~ aer." Jonadian,'ah jem g
~ tr%~pm~ eturn into t4 Iwupy of thy with the po6f maid ngh6 muggt eartheg
$~~4be'sa~     phegine, the :belqvd heaviest br4s ~'or enmity. "a, spy
Sdo IJtEt4srest it, Jog#g ginet"           '',      ,''

Tmrn MAchABs2
Ongolne onathansetr    led nmanfuilly  "I know aday's work forthee," aidthe
IFe pesed.his.n dedip hetwgn histeth. mtan;,he went on'and .Jouiathirn fodyv eI
i$eyes e  lled'wildly, in thei ; ckets.-u him
Oonvulsiivelyhe pretsed the dear maiden to
his trenbl g heart, It was struggle ofC H AIT           YV:.
which angels could beprop ,}Then herose   S OMT fl T_  0 N G  n  ,Po T  r.j_
giant-like, every.se ofi his body.appear  Apo.3oius rages, mny divne lord," esid
ed to.stretch itself..A wildfidre:animated Alcymos. "He knows that all th e mt. -
his e esand a read hueth ihed over his teineers are in. open rrepellion, and tip pld
countenance.  ' Shameon thee,-Jonathan, Asmo'i n 4lea ds t hem  Apellesandhi
thoi at weak as a ;hili ' he adpoitshed men together with several other ,garpeo
himself. "Father Matathia,"Mother Mirik were put to death. Bands ofekels pre4
amyopr soxacomes: SIRgo to sacrifice my f'rom  ne 'villge te ano  er, gestrgy h al
jey, my love,my bloody life onthe altar tars, teples nd statues, killthe riestgs
of myGod and ay:people. o earthly pow- force&amp; the aeleiss. to 0.Aee or tale u  rn.
er shall prevent me.-lphegime, if survive against' the king.  Theeis 'a e adfgn
this bloody, combat,J I will return with :the aticim amg them as in tlay vfosb,
same loving heart,. and no{ earthly power ua. Prophets a id. Psalmists by the eor
shall separate us again . f I fall on the rise among them and predict the end of the
battle field  of honorthou shalt notw Seep Sri an d rniiion iitTael. Ca   ahns
one tear for me;for there iniyonder region and cli Ongdr es'of the prophets they al
of everlasting bliss,: where love never. fades onthetenieie halnakedandpoorlarn
away, there Jonathan -shall wait.forlVhe. ed;,still oneon ireist: the iiiptuous cha..
ginoe  Farewell,-my beloved; return tothg ges. Woenagd booysfollow their call to
father and-waitfor:ne.",            arms and c0f'bat. 'Ik Ahort, the fbei; fo
"Whither wilt thou.go Jonathan?" she ed usrightsh n hsaidth inouutins a
asked.                                 on fire. There is onething *hih ehsui
ase.great a antage hteheis re  not' united,
Away from this'den or murderers, cor  eeadie hee    are ni-th dntesdo .
, r;Several diseohne' ed baxdin ith e ertooff
ruption, idolatry, treachery and sophistry" Judah-and on the mountains operate eaci
said Jonathan, "'to the mountains, ln Gds on itown  c    Apollonhia usend
free afr,where the~patrgg rally to fight ttficient-number 'of warriors to i-prevent
battles of the Lord.There is my p ac 'n        ld       r:
"1fy father. comnmndied 4Aleymos not to 'i  the wilderness d J  fda  y ous the
allow thee to, leave Jerusalem," she said rebels poted:themselves?" Merliduaed.
" so the 'fooltold, me. Now, 'IL know why  "'s,.nmyjord,' 'was the reply '
such is his wil  Jonathan"I shallplead .no ."David deffed 'there the armseof aul
more. Thouthalt not bea eaptiveja Jeru with bud ashandfulof ren"said the higi
salem against thywill., Take this cloak and pries. LThey will gives ndeh trouble.
sword and llow fw he man Who wa ty or The: insane people!'itWhouitaim  disi
thee in the street; and he.will escort thee' to line without air eperiemBced leaderkand
the right place. In ;life and death thize, allwitht money they' ise in mad rebellion
thine, forever-thine .I can only' pray that against the mighty armies ofiSy i', when'
God, preserve thee, ,and unite thee again they must know, that death an4d e6ity
with myfather  Now goand follow'nthy is-etaibsto: the'  They wouldynie
leader." ,tT      '=.,                my paternal advice, nor be uintr te db;
Jonathan took the cloak aiid sword&amp;*hich the exaile of humble subraslon  ~  o
Iphegine gave him, and left the 'emple.- them, aiddrouse the fisrde'ange  f I kn
Arriige4 in the, streetiamang akd  himr. aigai4st the *holi ~e ne.Aloye?  ~~
"0 (amgt thon buitad +"I ag',aathe ans hea*#hlen&amp;wbeiaIthinlkotpaab~4
swver. "Thenthou art a ibuilder?".-"  4   hator 'tat are'erng   3  Y0~
anm,' Was the reply., "Whastare thyamate. eplglf shudder "gd
rials?"w*s ~ ge i;e3t 'i tjoi.&amp;2nar. te#ibh.m   iyserb   (
stonegand eblonzg stone@,'Jonathan replieL raet'.s ede


A n F
mieji~as mah as nmay be in my power.-
it is y will Alcymes,.;that faithful'and ela
oquent ien be sent to the rebels to givd
them my advice and'coihmand, and admon-,
ish them -to siimsibn  Slect the best
men ato ir o6mntanIand send thentmia ay
fT itithhwithflgs of'truce andlet tletdo
aTsIoitnand"
-4l mnos l~owe'a nd left the apartment
ipie }ine camein, fell down upon one knee'
l$ fie' fti'tehr ana frayd: "y father,
bioldYuronly dafhter"rieelingii the
dut efore you  and' prying: Relieve' me
 frm the intolerable offie Vhich fhe king nim
I~s    n e  I can nolo:r ee the high-.
of Venus. Its is sin before God,
'nit digce a before Israel. My good
athe'" relieve me ofthe inlerable office!'
4re yQ  ad, pg ci?" thehihpriest
eclaimed     The k'mg,,ei   t appoint
m  daugtertthe highest ofce inkhisgift,-
ana she refuses to acep th  honor? No,
nop y ,4,ul yp"m ca npt ke1g earnest,,you
mn i   t asl such  ogIish laiugs of m ie.--
Rise, bigl prstess  X!ens    d e ; proud
o' you rapi~and digniy"
9    the firtof al9d nd.ndisgraced
*wopeI  in. this  sy,  ahe interpted.-
'"Never !.  have ,ee, enou ghin those toi-
pleg  raowghat.theking as made of i'ie..
Id di  k g*, tatte!Qreekseed; Syrrnsc
are so f'rivolons,'gdeci.ad lubric  I did
f  oat' Q  tligthe Udaiighterso(f io y pople
axe sp}djserced, hav.esoshame ly forgot-
ten their God and= he wise law. Now I
} it, I slalfneyer forget that team a
dighter of Aaron, that the bloodof a high
pri t flows through pdy veins.-Here I kneel
apn shall not rise till:yob have relieved-me
of ,thedisgraceful 6ffice to be the 4irst of;the
o   5st wendhas w  omtieGreekseall priest-
es   ofa enus. Jy, the s irit 'of xy de-
a(4h  anid the beard'of ,Aaren Ias
ae yoj I9    u' notrise tillyouyhave prom
ised 9to  antiuyuybrayer. " '.
t  ,  inly iithe power of theding,'
$ie LJ4ygn, andeb6e rises
Y P  nd c&amp;stity atedacred,i ad it is
f ofee. tard fo~r ed 'The
sa your anut'sandust obey
~~ Pe b~eyirtadakand
4    ts~ibnit to ezhohI

IRSg OPF
will. If'the king hears 'of your determina-
tion and suspects your dsieretf  ithis
religion y'o and I'are lost: 'Will' you bring
disgrace on' your aged-father? dtise I say
and' speak no niore 'to mrie of this affair.
can grannothig :promise nothing"'
- 'AWag, then,  ith this' hypoericy!'; she
eried; iolently ' "I_ can 'not 'deceive God
an man forahigh"osition- in socitiy, not
ven to 'save my life. ,yet' the king&amp;dor with
meas hepleases, I can not be the'highprest-
ess of'Venus" "'
'Menelaus apparently'felt'deeply this re-
buke, -forhe:answered noetnor ',could he
look onhisdaughtert Hre feignd fierce an-.
ger' and'.oemmanded here several tites to
rise and return to the temple,abut she obey-
ed not. lIe threatened to useiolenee; but
she appeared not to hear. ';Fi hly he assu-
ried-again a paternal{'air;and-kissing' her
forehead he yrayed r;;My child, respectthe
will ofthy old father-be thou not the cause
of' his downfal. tWait patieitly fot better
tiraes; apd let obedience:}noa guide-thee:-
Expediency sternly cominands, that-We yield
now. .h1uost not understand;this policy,
thou art yet young and short-sIgted, Let
thy old father guide thee,he isthysincerest
friend.'
l 'pt1lonius ad his suite,        a-.eus  f
noudies.  i     'mye chil 4,be quick, e
composed!" he hc&amp;    , aiid 'Iphegine was
obliged to obey. Aj'olloniiis and' his suite
entered,'all'iands ,  'eossed 'ove- the
breast 'aid every, head Wa 'ben fogra nhin-
ute' s   praise 'the immortal gods' fob the
'honor=tna distinatioi of hving'brough
great Apollinius :my ryalmuater's gover-
'nor ,Of Judah an  Santaria to my"-humble
presence " said Ifehlelds,
"MGioat is Zeus and his 1holy priest, grOat
iVenusi arrd er sacredeirginsaApbolloni-
,us eso ndadl  Iworship-thenin thedtrst
for the° happiness bestowed on' their most
hxiable servant tobehold the faed of 'my 'di-
vine lord. Our royal master sends yor 'the
asaniadeof his grace thfromih his lidnzble
servant Apo'ilodius." ''
:.Antetmoreand innch longer edinm
linedts'andi ceremonies had' been paded
;through,. bheginfe bowed'ureently ad
madea2xitionftoilsde the*$ace gNo so
hty,/my good ladgg"'mid AyolIfiu&amp;i "
hae to spediakakwrd or %676u.'9 'lur

T.HE    MA C0A-BR     S.
ing tothe highpriest-he asked:'  My divine ed ahnost, butshe had to remain sileit"
lord, what is :th pniasheient the Laws of "'The king sentn ieto this landto enfo eth:
Syria set upon degecration :ofuatemple?. -law&amp;Obedieneisthe greatathdiwordhof
Death     the highpriest responded.e  the day~sIf the highest officers def ,the
"What is the punishment of, him," le lasan  example iustte set toothers'I at
continued; enquingly, "who rescuesades-, offences a6dypn hed: My d'lo'     d
ecrato of a temple fromt the hands; Hof Iii: the king did bot appoint us to late this
lawful judges:?"                         people0r,:espe titheiiwhine" saidAp  -
"Death," Menelaus said again'         lonius.' "-To° iedfeeithein to ob e
"Jonathan the Asmoneana darie a spy to any nea s is our geM duty. Thereisope
this city," Apollonius continued,  rndles Iebellionoi -th miittain. Terforhjnet
ecrated4 the temple ofdoVnusjfso the priest= reigr hei-e andlsehere,that th-rbe  ,
ess saye. He wasparrested- tobe placed be- learn whatk waitstthem.  i must he that
fore his lawful judges and- reeeiwe -hispun- Jonathan or-your dadighter is lost. I must
ishment. But the -bighpridstes# of Venus sdnd his head to'his-father, who isthe head
rescued and sent him but of this city. '  of the rebels, that he may, learn his on
Morielaus ttfned  ale. Ipegin em    e fate   J oe bn JoezeV meif did to-day and
no excuse. "What hav e ybittosafy, y'lay his heli 'mitt be sent to the crazy people,
dy, in your own. behalf?" 'poli ius  sked. that  ,rro r 'aI  d'isuia&amp; restairin them
" I-escuedhtm," he said, fixr ly, "be- command this in behalf of lielkin"
cause ie was no spy, he' nver'desecrated a "1i y lord, none ismore, obedient togour
temple. I did not send him from this ity." royalmaster than mnyselfarj e laus
"Wellitinaybe so,'he s, i ly. "But     o    is imoro opposedto rete lion ad vi-
it musbe ascertdaiid.  if yladyi behalf' olence 1 an I am.  our system, howygr,
of ur  eing, I 6nirna ndyon to lay down to ia  th  ebellio  s inruden     ad
your sacerdota1 rbe and girditfandremain imust n i  its aim.  ;Inoti  epple.
a prisoner til'the mattecaf be 'tried fairly: Once &amp;ivien to thetmost they cone nrn..
My digne 1o-' please comicaii"ougr    . ser=ger and death, efdestrutctiow4tself dioir
vants to arrest .*nthan 'he:ason; for madness,overleap niountans a   ,ndr  une
if he is gone, t i gilt falsl on your d ug  noticed, ig the dust, are lions ai  pens,
ter  UDh,y   sad ,is the pnisjivnnt for nd care not for the defit1 of touh nds.-=
t  ac  ilege.  \riv e                     en  t t m dness ,and  the  ola s  th;re
:.Iere  is'  t 1e  tr' ip ,y h" pisin e  l1-tied4,      I b     ie
c~ainisl, truumpantly.   "Here is gie if his al-mns be tiednd ou must give a de-
and robe wlich burnednoti me lik a moth. populated land to the king. tet sonirags
her's c       iuse, Thank leavei ' am released p  of hope glitter through the shady picure of
this burden. Joithad,     aaai myse fi!powfr iLnd Violence, and' thousands, satisfied
wWhat follows next, my lord?"            with the glimpse, pwill maintain the pace,
" You follow your guards to theteinple willobedmO ly-subnwto the king, andniuch
of Verius, where As.asianiistera to the bloodshed:maight be:spared; oTherefore I
goddess," he-kaid  '"There the sacrilege would advise, -my lard to aTmoie- humane
was omitted, there thogoddess ihust le and cociliatory policy, and Iado so' front ves
appeased."       .   .   .              ry loyal motives "
My -lord, may not thy daughter stay With  ""1 a inot Apollonius Jam the'servant of
me 'Menelus iaiqired 'until the facts of kingAnti chus,'srf aid he.  1%,an tike o
the    a e ca b e  cisertainued? I°pledge my advic%  the word of' the 1king imn ulder-
honor fars her :apparauce before-her judge standing; will andu cause of action; 4e
in'du time"~  *  *       '~    which' 1 hyv-noteontroL: Death, tthe oJi
heis your daoghiteino loingerpumydi~ stirte and aeeiouwin Judelh d S8 i
vin ed    was the answer "the .iaced was his doinah, and IkilliiizNht
law  en~ie~hera:$riinE~ ~ci   nonlangaa~e ow eliioi ian n m
an d~' nti~n4th 4~'         ~alt -zixh    miet~-Hp


_ r   4Ehie, This iWinyinstruction. ,he e- ochus Epiphanes, kitig of ,al yria aid:eerm
fe1des ichd       su  ient, number;of aja, the favorite of°;the godslaud -especially
,men ok  e evpy rebel#on .tl-buntaini ofMats nd i4enus.h'
ard hi ther wilderness , I will strike error  Joshade no ,reply :and ,Aolloni s con-
ver 'ieart, ghat iona a: mk4e'ommon tind.  "Youi eause was laid before our
g&amp;u eitl tte rb+ i  Fisith e. hea~dof ll1st1idus master anar!fter cohaultatiQn
Jo   be~   esr Aiti sfallfke use :e is a w th the gp. s ;pryer aid;scriie it was
pen d     audevery rhelwkiharit and revealedto him, that you, Josehei( Joezer
skudder:'hen    tnusb tave the head sof of Zoredahbormispprince f the Sanhed-
Joathanuthe Asnsieazx yu hear,'my die rin.&amp; Jrusgle  arp guilty of blasphemy
vineilord; 4our dtnghter's lfe isestake,  againsttheimmprtal/gods and of ;ingh. treat
utay hate hiui,,theaIwtillkill 'the whole son against y ni king. Therefore ydushall
iAignean Ufailyand  the 'rest' of she eadb bpbeheaed this night that your blood ap-
ers  Thid irthe will of the J ing..Nw  pease the foe l deitiess"  _ .
ny divine lord, Jose ben Joezerian  t be ex-  To what pursepDaiywords?t' JiQse
cated                           ,       asked, calmly, net,afeatiure of his counte-
M rlfiord thekold man h s too maw    naice beingthe least change. l;am pre-
f en  in Jerusaem, ' said Me  i     If par d to diefc~ the saredoat se ofmyod
we yeoutihim p uliely, we only irritate and m1 peqle.'e  '
the popu aee to violent resjisace: ,If You  LIf yor God is onighty wh doeslio
have sent akaY so many warriors, wqshould not hel i devout' servant?" 'polonious
be ca ioxus leie                       asked? scornfilly.
en let it be done thi night;" was the  "He has helped and He will hel', for He
ansei. "When th eein              shall i aGodofu       nd   ery,"said Je,so-
Qa a go into the  tower and' atempt to win lemnly. "He never forsakes Israel entire
the tiorn ianfor the king siiid the uon ly; YoU may  tride overour cr yes, or
try" ,If lui refuses, let 4gymos with a suf  d"e in ubld t orti ed vicy;;but
fient guar super     d the execution atheday'of revenge and recompense will come,
6goa       Theyshalliad hint out'throug  saeiwillbed6cebmedandits' sacred cause
the bacdt or of thetowdr ad t          vill beb ti  afford their redeemeris
to   otha. le must be beheaded that strong,'the tord ofposts isf'isna    ' 'A'
the 'atures of~ his countenknce.,romin un- '  e  modand' grey, rips'fo,'deat1: -
r.mtforenme, I ain odan                                re    pt.
chaned, gand his'.lea be knowno al.4'  A few days sooner or later, in tiis' or that
"And mnf dabter, i    4lord?" Meelusau  ' ' --                           -
emmy                manner, is ininaterial to me.' It is material
ask d, rits of tremblingavoicek '   top me, that.I seal the truth of iny  Ipople
Th le liaws of niyg iladians kin  are u  t  y' iod  nd1.;10        11in    e
sad yp oiu g'aidIamtewith n        blood, "arid this ,blood., will inspire
pr e;e'said Apollois,"and      amthe many a heart in Israel to live and die for;the
humblle servant."                                         '' y' ~
sacred 'cause of my people."
e:The Tower 6f the Furnaces at thewestern  'I say you prea hoary and, obstinate
extremity 'of the city, only one'hundred crimi.a, whodrags 3is'own people into
yards'distant from'-Golgotha, was the prison nameless isery," said Apolloinus  The
of"Jose ben Joezer. The heavy gates of bloody that wi.be shed, the tears that wil,
that' prison were opened, the ight of'the flow, and the affliction that will: befal the.
tore feltite the celtwhich the ldparince surviving, fall 'hot and burning on  our
opeupied.Ag ollonius and Menelaus entered: head.. Fhr fyou wtuld yield tothe'tigA
Alpyos with hisi'wa1iors guardedtbedoor comma nd.,fall prdwwould be gautedyou,
Jog roselfrnnthis couch: gis countenance and ray gracious'kmng'nemin.ateo~yog priest
washealmg hia lookss were bright, hs attitude of Apolloi -'This, would certainly eny
e ighit and. flriia' "In' the' nme of God 'I ntangy a stubhorn mind, that ititiniue t'Frt
pisfe o,"' hwaid. "WegeimeAn the with~the' 61d prendices,'the invetem  te~
1~e   Jitepandthe rest ofthehenmental perstitiona, tlie'osmacy end hargpsf
~~4p911       4 ' 'gggo nnicte o 'heart chara~~erisng yur p@ge~h

HE MAd"'Afl kEs.
a scene of-horror spared, and many a happy earthly to the heavenly Jerisaldifi; *e   i
yea .o                         ' worship him in the everlasting tem Ie f 4
"At 'the expense of truth, divine truth, heagelyfireahere t  hnlad
manliness,' justice- and liberty? No! Nev- bim sing His  raise'and p   lig pr  '
en"   Jose exclaimed, -with youthful fire, guilty of #ostacy.' But the bldod '3sin'
Let'our blood crimson the ruins of our nation will'cry aloudto the ear  hum, ainyg
destroyed cities and the soil of or holy land; 'When the 'clouds evidence ad'pr5
let our ;suckhngs be slaughtered oi the bos- dices will he disierse'd,  dto 'iht'"co
oms of their helpless mothers, and the shrieks open our graves, 'eanine o  wounds, i
of horror'and. woe silence the roar of the quire into the ca'n e of our death aid s
foaming breakers dashing against our rocks our bones.  Ti'u'ellr snruet    n  o
-yet the surviving sons of Israel shall graves as the vapo'riies ' foithe sea to?
bravely-rally around the banner of the 'Lord fresh the nations With the hen r sho
of hosts;',yet there shall be myriads in Is- of divine grace, andlIrna'1'iIlv  i he
rael 'whose knees were not bent before alie, grateful hearts ofedeemed iitian . lver
who submitted not to cruel' despotism. I blade of grassthat grows onour 'gavewl
will set them the example that death is not be a trumpet of resurrectionto f'e  rii
the greatestevil; slavery is.'ndythe lowest humanity. But the wicked will erish a d.'
slave is he who sacrifices truth, justices and their names will be a curse and an ibopi.
liberty because his life is in jeopardy. Jose. nation. We live and'Sie         th
ben. Joezer :'knows how to die contented for Israel and all  natis, all th le
when he can no longer live a free man a God-Why,             he     ?
son of Israel. e'sawwaytewoydso? I amuto
Noth men'looked amazed upon1the old he- God and mytfaiths  I  gohome.'Calndy an I'o '
ro and ittook them a good while ere they executioners; I ami.ready or them. "
cod speak ' gain. Then Menelaus saidin     Jionse b  I an     d t  tem
a .subdued tone: "Jose ben Joezer,.if you withstanding the 'promises' and threats'bf
believe one man of those who oppose the Apolloniusa        n  u       e       t
will of the king, will be spared, you, 4ne.words were wastedinvain; Apolloniussn .cal "
grievously nuistaken. The king determined swere wand deinvre     Aprllones to
-led Alcymnos -,nd delivered" the prisoner to
firmly .upon exterminating either our race or hscre.Tebc     o    r  tetwr"t
ou reginn laws and nationalityr a     opened and Jose was led forth to  olgotfia
king's power is immense, thrice sufficient to be behed. t   aa'
r       t       be beheaded. It was a dark and -storka
uproot our mountains .andsa   vr    ii
creature    unthis  a nd slayeweryoliving night, not a star was visible on the skies.
cretue  Y tiscountry. Why, should..we The men to prevent exeitennt prode'ded
all die, and no scion and no trace be left of -The -en  to pret  arkin  prod
Israel? God gave us laws to live and not tonon
' If                            edict. Alcymos went by the side of' Jose
de with. If  it is ois vill. that we should           -
w shudand scorned his foolish confidence in God.
obey them, He will again perform. miracles'It-is too dark to night, hesneered "your
for us, as in dags of yore. But if dead we old God can not see you. The yong go'ds
are  llof us, every hope is gone foreve.- of Greece and Syria can see better.  Yot
the dead wil praise the Lord, nor all had better call on th'm; theymight help
th     hodescend to srlece.  Let us yid you yet."-" The everlasting God will pun.
aia           y God in future d, aisIs ish, thee for. this laspheming," Jose said
"Whoever yields is dead and Whoer dies A  son    in     teasingandinsulting4t
man Tae dad le oldaign, and ;disturbing hin inhis lastgry
they yet        o li  ad the righteous ers     Meanwhile thefeet ofGolgotha. wse:
live'Wil t               aa~ero suber  n'the yeahed.  Jose could pio6 alk as fastalg )iI4
em     fd    h'   sad Jos, shntl'guards, .and 'Alcynios nrged, 't'Godagte       -
Td' od. sinner;.time oeghe ferotoie4N


ybitr G0d cau not.reach you; he is old and
st 4
4t   p t O&amp;intitwo strong arms seized'thg
a dcymos and before he could think
of ±,ts4ehe Id on the ground, a man
k      0tpop 1m and holding the point of a
dagger ovgr his heart tjIreatened: "One'
sao  d andawillfnake an End of thy wicked;
life"   kose 9sa* i'ith alnatement, that all
the Syrian soldiers surrounding him were
suddenly seized, disarmedand tied together,
befdeo they hidtige to make use of their
arms. It was the work of a "moment. Not
the leastnoist  s made. The patriots, fa-
voredby the darkness of night and the ,nu-
m   ius Palm, trec laid in waifon both sides
of theroadr and suddenly and unexpectedly
fell on Aicyipos and his men, disarmed and,
tied them together.
opuare rescued, my glorious :prince,"
Jonathan exclaimed, joyfully, "and all the
armies of Syria shall not wrest you frmip
our hands. ;- Mount your asses," he cor-
matded his taen, "Drive the captives before
yoa 5 "fast as possible. Keep one stadion
from the city and follow me to Mizpah. We
mnust reach Mizpah before they suspect any-
tling in Jerusalem. We are safe in Miz-
pah."
An ass was brought to Jose; he mounted,
anidthe: party hastily proceeded.  "It is"
Jo than" Alcymitos exclaimed. "Be dumb,
ortbQuart,a dead man!" Jonathan comman-
ded and silence was restored. Jose clasped
the land of Jonathan, and a little louder
than a whisper he exclaimed: "May God
bless thee, noble Asnionean."
"'Arms, arrosdlitcries: tle sword, and shield prepare,
And "send the willing chier; renewed to war:
This as nonmortal, worlt flo elire ofinte
}ur art's effect, but done bybauds divine."
.VtaoL E N. XII.
CH A P TE R VII.
Inthe wildernesoof Judith an ar ny ofpa''
triots wae enearnpe46  Poorly equipped as'
they were; still a lofty spirit and 'exlted-
hop~aswelld every'manly breast.'  plenty
ofdLtsaewang iniifing psalms eelebrinig
ix~ ~dfieedthe 'tieterie tree achieved.-..
Pethithispired *or-da~redicted.the

for the-numerous and zealous orators to pro-
claim the oracles of God decidedly favorite
to the caue' of Israel's patriots. There
was a spirit roused 4umong the warriors'bor-
dering on inspiration.' Alnost every man
was gifted with the spirit of prophecy,' or=
at least with the genius of,~poetry, 'to sing
or chant new' psalms.,Ilenty' of unusual
visions were beheld 'n'the nocturnal sky,,
and many a man had seen fiery chariots and
angelic warriors in the golden clouds of the
twilight.' Divine dreams, of great import
were common among ,the warriors, and the
skeptic ,was converted into a prophet. An-
gelie visions Were as frequent as the .Jackall
howling in the desert, and ,men spoke with
view tongues.   -
" I have :seen the 'angel Metatron, in a-
'nocturnal vision," said Azariab, onO-night.
to his 'comrade Reuben, "Metatron holding
a flaming sword over the head of the evil
demon Semael. -'Destruction is nigh ,and
vengeance approaches,' said Metraton, agd
the host of-heaven re-echoed his words,'It
Was not language but harmonious nielodies
by which they uttered- their sounds. Not
the figure'of man but beings woven of light
and ether appeared to me. Then "Beinael
raised his dermoniac head and thrice exclaim-

ed,  blood!: blood! blood!' 'But iMetatroi
swung his fiery sword, the host of heaven,
chanted sombre melodies and Semael fell,
lower, lower, still lower,' till he fell into the'
Dead Sea, and there he was drowned. 'Then
the angelic host exclaimed, 'Thus, o fora
all thine enemies shall perish,' and they
shouted divine hymns, Which the Cherubiml.
and-Siraphim re-echqed in powerful strains.
Then Metatron   triumphanitly explained,
Israel 'is free!  This is my vision. R eu-
ben, wiser than myself expound itin tr ith.'
"MNetatr nds the angel-prince who stands
in the presence of' Jehovah hinself," ,said
Reuben.   "Semael is the angelic prince f
the Heathens, full of evil and wickedness.
Thy riocturnblvision is highly important;
ffr it reveals the favor of Israel with the
hot of.heaven. -kThe angel of Israel-atta ks
and sub dues the demon of the Heathe r
and Y eaven'e glorious hpt. ';ir d its
tron,..  ,~e symathizewith Isr sta"ift l4  Sez+,d  iol; ,
e'bets'eei 'T iaeI an4 ,te : t  J

I

TH1E   M A CeeAE'S,
Metttron has a blaming sword, as the Asmo- Lebanon melts before the suin.  We to
nieanhas who can anot be  wounded " Meta their arms, nmunition 'and ietulsd e-
tron hurls the demon of the Heathens into turned to the camp. That is thethin .''
the Dead Sea; so we shall defeat the Hea-  "That is. the  eitableprophecy which
then' and hurl theni to death and destruc- the angel Gabriej cominiiated 't'.
tion, and Israel'-shall be free. The host of said one of the 'Levites. "He'fol;tdmethg i
heaven favor our cause and' the tars them- soi of Israel 'like 'a dark  cloud w11'ff11i
selves will fight in our ranks.':Iountains the heathens, and the de ion of odniia
will jumIp from their base and hills will skip will discomfit them.- The gword of eVeie
like young sheep and cover the-enemies of man shall be against his' broths', and evy
Israel. Rocks will split and fly to our res- 'man shall fly and none shall pursuit iizi"",
cue, and the- flint will burst into ten'thou-  "So it was not, however," the djieg &amp;.
sand arrows to wound and discomfit our exi- ulated. "'They fought against us aiad not
emies. 'This is the sniffnation .of thy against each other, and when they dyifles
m, brother Ariah.              '     wepursued 'them hotly.   ut they ran  Q
Thou art a wise man, brother Reuben, desperatelyj fast, that we ebul not oyeitke
thou hast read in the book of Daniel, said The  Th
heni.  Tey have horses, miles daes,
Azariah..  The .end, the end of suffering camels  d
is omig tisis ure eIetyeserdI ad.cam  sand even elephants, just, to, ruin it
is Coming, this is sure,, But yesterdyI had enough, that we could not overtake them."
no meal except a few ears of barley and.I"a
am quite hungry., None of the, parties e- t,, said the Levite, "it wil come toeass
turned with. booty durir gyesterday-and yt  adeLvt,       i   ilcm    opa
yay, n                   herafter, surely hereafter; for the angol~a-
food is scarce in the camp. Brother Reuben bre i-  -lr  o
.        '  .               brief  is  no  lhar.  . Your  exploit  yas  rp  e
did no angelconte to inform thee where Il-
cred by king  David when he ,said   o e
could get something to eat?"             -
with chariots, those with horses and wear
Angels do not eat, nor do they care for r
..                                      remembered by the name of.-our God."
it," said Reuben. "I myself am hungry    "
but I wait till some parties return wi  a      '   orgot th-e mules  sses, camels
booty."                                 andelephants," said the warrior, "and tig
are satanit fast on their legs, faster'than thei
A noise disturbed them. A party had ar - aiots of    a
rived with plenty of cattle, bread' and wine.  Meanwhile thea
The .ioise roeed'the sleeping heroes  Al le n   l  was p      rre e
gathered ai-orrd the fires, anc pledntof fodd wsra   ,a      aroe
thered priests anid prophets longed aftpr their ih -eg
was divided, while the Levites sung psalms ad at  th h        t    Th
qad the prophets announced their prophecies. nd for awhile  psaolxis, prophecies axd
"The Lord is m  sheplhrd," sung one of warlike t4les.     '              a
the Levites "he feeds mue with the fatness  In thetet of Matathia, Siion Thssith
of the erli.' The clouds bring his:mania, third-son of the old i atriot, 'reported ti°his
his quails cote on thewings of the wind.- father; fo. he was'the gaptin of tle bn
He slaughters ten' thousand'cattle, and in- just returned.  'We   can tue+d  spent of
vites mne to satisfy my soul. Streams of victuals and arms," said he;'"Like 'the
honey flow through the wilderness, dates earthquake  we fell sudden and unexjfet
and figs6grow fromthe rock. He bids the edly on the Syrians; and routdthen  aeh/
desert and it blossoms 'like Carmel, fresh cry encounter. Ist the daptit  th
water spout dfrom its bosom. He rains food mountains, tobrothe Elea ia%.'uAran, azd
from 'heaven  "'    "                  brought hither thb .fi hiin it loidd wi h e isst
'Thittisnxot true," intermt ptddasuniburnt tuals and arms. We' buried th  e
muigclar man.  "We 'ought like domons wournded nniiles a  huiht h Q~4~$:
to drive the Syrians i'rona theirtposition arnd 'I y o  he~i tha~~~n~
took litheitpdvisioni' sIn the sienee of  tt~tod"si'M~aIM
night esuirprisedtheni and $go  d'them  h  oredfhs~t         ~4v~~


H   EE
ogJ    4 _#  Samaria; and alsothose coming
£zrthesther sideAof Jordan," said Simon.
'" Jad  gained Afrm ,foothold in Mizpah
A @o dselOg rr4on Qf Jerusalem in per-
peg'zatp    action. The patriots of Judah
 h raoln4 him  as the snow  gathers
xquakthe summits of Lebanon. Nothing
as hard of brother Jonathan or of the
fatpepf'Jo e;bn JoezerA.4  messenger of
,t,,,igh priest whom  ye captured- but
est day ays Jonathan submitted to the
i is Isnot true I" Matathia exclaimed.
J~o a ip hvill'rather die tenfold than sub'
niit to theileathens. There is no traitor in
n. I willigee the messenger of the man
o sin when I am through with thee.-Tell
Snow,my son, what doest thou know of
Whc enemiy?"
In a1iT; different divisions, the enemy
abouf ten thousand strong marches against
us; laid Sihon.  "They come against us
well 'equiyped and provided with eveiy ne-
cesity.' They have camels and elephants,
hores anddules. The mainudivision march-
esliinctly against this place. I met their
outposts 'aiid drove them before me to the
ninbody which I dould iotattack. Ha-
ving' r4ached'myaimI returned to 'eport."
well done,nyson," said the old man
lost  a train of thoughts.' Afteraw while he
continued: 'I have confused ;them by de-
eeitu spies; and thus enticedthem into this
wilderness . Theirdefeat is.certain, if we
act spe dily. Now; my son, give no rest to
thy weary limbs. ~Bring my sons, with all.
thgigdispesabl e forcs, to s, this 'spot. Tell
thjto 1,ayesbehind thema number ofimen
s og ie4 tt miitainthe posiions already
gaine4nutlet themselvestwith al their dis-
poga leYmen be here as quick as possible.--
; Fps' here defeat the main body pf the
eney, ex willrive the.rest ofthem be-
ai s a is driven before the wind."
' W   sten, py father,and 4o -my du-
,dd Si oni;  b   first Imust give
;a te .eport.,,
uanrged.
Ke,%             ry~n the pa-

IRS(T 0 F
left their homes to jointhee.- On the even-
ing of theyixth day of the week they reach-
ed theeaves near Adullam where: they re-
spived-to keep the'Sabbath. : Ini the morn-
ihg of the Sabbath they , were overtaken
by a pursuing band of Syrians; They were
informed, pf the approaching danger,-but
being Sabbath they would not go forth from
their caves;neither fight nor flee. The Sy-
rians came'and-challenged them to come out
and fight or surrender., They would .not
because it was. Sabbathday nor-would they
surrender. The caves were well closed, in-
gress was impossible, and the patriots could
well hold out to -the next day. But the Sy-
rians kindled large fires at the mouths of
the caves, and notwithstanding the 'shrieks
of the women and children thousands of
living beings were terribly suffocated in those
caves."
" Go     "f-- aliighty ruler of the, universe,
just artthou and just are thy decrees!"
"Matathia cried, in the accents of madness.
Thy punishment overtakes us on account of
our sins. How long, 0 Lord wilt thou yet be
wroth against the children'of thy covenant?
How long'yet wilt thou turn away thy coun-
tenance 'from thy afflicted people  ' Shall the
Heathens always kill and scorn-thy people,
always ask, where ,is theirGo to help, them,
their mighty Ruler to save them from pur
bands?-Tigers, lions, serpents would sla w
mercy tpthose who obey the laws.of their
God; but our enemies ,are worse than the
ferocious beasts who tear and devour to sa-
tiate their hunger. .Dogs, cats and mice
would have been spared on account of the
helpless younigones who offended pone 'and
mortified none; but we are estimated below
the worms; in the dust.by! our eneies--
They  consider us venomous    serpents
that mustbe trampled into the dust,. snakes
and scorpions that must be ,extermhlat
with their young, ones and.gg.
justice, avenge thy people,'let u noted
to. shame, let our blood not t hus bahed
likeythe water of a foul cisternp " 4athie
'thus continuedl for som0 Aippto Wpoug h
the ago of;istheat,ywhen he 'tryd to
pin,.~the    gopjnvi~          g

which our brethren were," said. Simon.--
' We heard only the savage shouts'of the
Syiians; and like furies we' fell on them and
like the storm that heaves the sea and drives
about the sand of the wilderness, we"drove
them to pairs, captured many of then 'and
killed a large number. We: opened the
caves, but the inmateshad been dead sever-
-al hours."
"Didst thou kill the ferocious caitiffs?"
Matathia asked, hastily.
"No, my father," said Simon.  "Thou
hast commanded--"
" Right so, my son, vengeance .is God' s,"
said Matathia. " But thou wentest there
on Sabbath?"
"Yes, my father," Simon-replied.  4
"Right is my "son," said 'the old man.
"Man was not given to the Sabbath, but
the Sabbath was given to man. The Sab-
bath was not intended to bring death'but to
bring life and'happiness is its aim. .Not to
die but to live, the laws of the 'Lord were
given us. It is my will, and it shall be'a
law in Isroal from Dan to Beersheba, that,
life and health are.holier than the sabbath
None, of us shll begin an attack on the
enemy on the Sabbath day; but if attacked
we shall;ight. My poor brethren were too
pious, they considered not that the Sabbath
is lfor the living and-not for the' dead. Wet
violate some, sabbaths to observe;the rest un-
disturbed, we aand 'our ehildren.--WhatI
didst thou do with ,the dead bodies?"
I. ooyered the mQuth 'ef theeaves with
earth and stones, thatno, animal, can pass
in," said Simon,!"and there left them in the
silent;repose; of death, till'the - trumpet . of s
theangel of resurrection shall resound and
waken them to life."             '.v
"Ty dead ones shall live y t  corpses c
shall rise, awake and shout with joy all those i
who 'estin the dust;" said Matathia, solemn- M
ly " God watches over -their bones, and w
keeps their souls, in the habitation of life ml
and light.--Noa, my son, go and do as Itold I
thee."  c'...o.                      a
Simon let ndihe messenger of 'Menelaus li
was ugheg  itigthe pdeseue o Matathia it
" I amn a seceth inosseer.of tlhLrd's j(
higJriegt,'  aid the an  .        h
"The messenger of the'man of'sinm thmr. ~

"Judge not thyneighbor befo4tl i  iet
been in his place,"'the )ar i rj d
SMatathia   iafbe wise' and'       $
would he riot admit" t"li  theliokl'd'+1
priest is like him wise and-pious V"- v
' Because:Menelaus is a. traitri'torshi
people, a traitor before-his God,Pas' e
harsh reply, "and the.traitorisueither 7rise
nor, pious."         .
beforee I was uheredjinthyqpre en!'"
said the messenger,."I heard        I grdrv,
that every.man seuld-fight on Sabbathif
he be attacked  Itis rigltto iyilate some
Sabbaths, didst, thou sayirii' order, tt,.'obr
serve the rest "ndistur ,ed. 'Thos art' wise
and pious man,"lvhy woldst thoueu  0
consistent? The Lord's highpriest..iseop .
pistent. Convinced that itis sheer manies
of any man to oppose thp mighty  rnigof
Syria, and a bloody crime to lead innppent
people to certain death and.destruction mly
to increase, thefury of Antiohus ag most
our people, he yiplds now to observehpr'eafr
ter undisturbed the laws of°the Lord. ;'4I
[s not worse but more consistent than Mata-
" Thou art a masterly fadvceo
lords wickedness,"'said Matathia with e
samile' 'Tell hin, howevere - one in sae~
and last of all the highpriest should;atteip
to save his life 'by a, denial oftet' one tler-
nal God and the worship bf idols,b depy
ng the truth:and swearing to theiek
banner of fiction. None mistsaves he life.
by a lie.,-Had '.he violated, all the'awsaf-
God from motives of expediency hontight
e justifiable;. but he who4enies God hi
elf and embraces a lie. ceases tobe i ;
eis, the sE rantof'a lies Thy pemisesard
Wong, for the'Syriac armies:ase notuvng
ible. *They.are mor aiacreaturesaiiditai4
a the hands of God. '#hy:conclusioa "is
frong, for if we'renounceall we'ha  ,ad
that have Wea without  Ood?#- nothing 4
mains.ton.be rescued hereafter; %Xke fro
sraelits God and-thou hastmo
omparison is wrong, for the; ahat
fe only if.elive not we  anno
; but  d 'is frlife and da,
~et liiniiiftpwe are forcedto $U$  0
dekeddessafIife. M4eeasae~

Tiii


9      por mst a causebe if Matathia in the storm of misery? God must despise
r~a      n dead i nio better . the he9 such, a shadow ofhis .images To save ,the.
_ g       laus;d  j Is our,:God so capri- true ,manis? Oman's noblest duty,' and this 18
cis      whnigsil that,,at the risk of our ouat prppse  against  yhich you object."=
lives w'ist praise him or expeItience his" Sir, ,if we theapo;tles.:of truth, eyince no
cIdt displeasuree? -Or is our cause sofeeble  oire-confidenee in it than ;to yield our man-
thatif '%in alestine cease, for a little hoodIto thet pleasure of-the moment, truth.
whiletodefend'it, it ishogelessly lost? Mat- itself must lose its majesty in ;the estima-
athia can believe neither. 'Go, myeople,' tion of man. We wish not to benefit truth,
said theigpophet,  ome into, thy rooms, to benefit man is onrAuty. If we' "disgp-ce
Waihi tinentnitil the fierce anger is pas- truth in the sight of .man;man is digraced,'
e+d d6'an nt beangry if fol-one mo- because hehae'lost'his 'respeet for truth,-
ient weedity'wOrieehi servants, in drder: We stand here in bold reliefto 'provewith
tb senehi i'afterwafrd with :ly devotion. our s ords and our, blood, that 'truti is
God 'knows the heart of man,  henust see mighty and its apostles' are powerful. We
that *we' dentehimrfor a Miioxientionly until. rise to save our own manhood for the benefit
thirce'maige bh passed.' Truth is ever of a world; and, God can'inly he pleased
1atiig.' Our momentary silence will not with us-Sir. we will teach the power of
prbi it. If wiedid we cnn not worship the 'truth to unborn generations. If'we fall, we
Gd hf truth any More. If we lice we might shall rise as, martyrs and' undermine the
viroe coni iyg' opportunities and again temple " of fiction;from every drop of our
redyr important serVice to the' sacred' cause blood a champion of truth and liberty 'will
of 'tbth. "But if we id 'not,truth will not be rise. If we. succeed, ii with God we tri-
impaired: It is the queen of 'heaven, no umph over Syi-ia's despot and Israel's cow
cfhl ereature cari dim he'r luster or impairdakls, truth and justice have achieved a vic-
her everlasting power. Why then wouldst tory which: will re-echo-in every generous
thu, condemn 1enelauefor denying himself heart throughout the' realms of man,and
to r eadlhis people'ffrom the crushingn- teach him to respect truth. With bbd;we
nipo enceof Syria fot'better times and holier shall be victorious; and shameshall ''over
Imurposes?" .   ' 't';."the fame of every servant' of fiction.               o
pn history Iam 'thy iferior, n truth -home and, tell thy lord, the patriots have
Iani#ot,saidMatathia, with a bitter smile. drawn their swords to save their manhood.
,  ; od' is'ei hecapriious and whiesi- They obey  divine ibpulse which they
cat  r does he'dependon my- praise; but I' can not and willnot depres. Tell thy lord,
vnodman, if' lifeand temporal happiness ou'r swords are unsheathed tor.egain our,
aledearer torhe ;than truth and indepe - rights;our; indepence odrlibert 'or
denge.:Is it worthwhile to rescue 'a cow" homes,.that no despot heneefo th p1  ss
dIoahypocrite 'a renegade,,a liar from the our 'children- or' interfere with our'rights.
ho   d"e.,mbraceof destruction Just to ravp Tell himawe shall fight, conquer or die;
ote"orthlessscoundreimore'i the world? We are determined to set an exn*pl9 to
Whatrulseware we, if we lie away 6ur Gd,  ankind,"lhow despotic rulers 'must be chas-
our 'lovod'of'dliberty, justice and mindepend' tied. " '
eneif'we lie obedience tothe despot,=sub  Hei-e the old man stopped; and the 'm"s-
niei s o.,to tyrahny:and 'faith to fictitious seuger'had no more to say" iIatathia there.
gAodJ    d must despise the generation of fore, continued: "S peak to the rest of 'ur's
diears despise'as we do the pasquils on hi- Thou art perfectjyafe, mayest' say.' S ht.
i _     hodive''or tlhe sake of life. Life thou ple   .'est. Convince thyself, that' allyf
is hnt% e ainref muau'a existence, truth is' them' tlyiik'nd~  Was Tdo. The bis heo
T eugive    ca 4o bth hghes ob- taito    n Xi~n ihti ioca
w~bc~ln drersidestrnust be hs loftiest " I know that the rest a e butthy re ehit
~~~ Whaildit,1'i' dag heenis. sd'th "M1seng i"'

Tu'i Mkdexuzig.
only proes the corruption;ofthe servants   Danger? Wh'ere"''everal ei4
ofddesp oties.Go, speak to'them and.con= ultangously   Wedid hoti
of Xespism1.                   td on-u   tagr=tr '~~'
v3«e t    l             '     m          to amuse ourselves: Let the    od  e o
"   ned  1 not do it,"said themy  mesenge  we are ready to mee '
n o n d-               .Bethink yoarselves iny'brethren,"Isar4
see,'the duty of bondmen is very lim- he old h'efta'n  "the end of our b rethen
ited, said Matathia. T a'fa-e for their -the caves of A     eullrn a trre  n
lives is the fir-st and last of their sublime ines                   e
duties.-Come,-follow me and .hear patriots  "Matathia, thou j'okest with us," said
speak,. that thou be enabled to give thy" lord   a   , "  u Te   is  uo    an
-".-        -       -   ,Azan~rah     There as na raitor in:Mod6  h
a true description of the inspired patriots.  N        myotrni 'ati1ne
Both- left the - tent.,Theold manewasen-'treachery, 'said Matathia.  Behold, ho
thusiastically received' by' the warriors.- feebleeare' W1ear   killed b' th
They:rallied' around hir' as children around sand."
their r father. :;Numerous and genuine re -"J    i      ae     ou
-       -          Just .is our cause, a rongo,-xrsur .arms
the tokens of respectwhich 'they" evincedto and igh is ou' God!" scoinoftheyae '
their ancient leq4er, who returned them claimn eTi
with paternal pride and satisfaction.  ' Lead u   once         t 'ne the'n:
" Warriors ofthe Lord, champions of Is- cead s  o   ' brthreng
rael," said the old chieftain,  this is a day  Isibo  ofour baetrn
of-evil tidings. One thousand of our belove  as  this y'  fall  fraatio? "
brethren, men,a woen an    children, who  sed    ain      atthewIf
left their homestto h      oYarLikedreoaingeafret, a           t bpsad  f
live or die ,with us, wereslainin one hour. "%d!' resounded fom dallips rid a hid
The enemy overtook-them when in the caves sandswords"eulied' frn teisih
of Adullam  they'observed the'Sabbath of confirmation of the pokedgord
the Loed;and'refused tofiglit or yield' to'the  " Hear it, messengerof the nan of s
enemy_ Fuse;waskindled before',the'caves, the' olg comaider rared°forthw ;;li'ion's
and all the dearly beloved l iethren' were sur ngh'in his16b 1g  i usi s     ar
suffocated."'"ie folded his'hands, dropped'it;thereis notrnitdrnimin odaid-  a
his head, and tears grittei-ed inhis eyes.  d  deis     ayi
Painstrilken-the altitudee wasisilent,'as the tience to fight for Goc and rsre 'Tel6tl&amp;
desert aroundd 'them. Matathia resumed anof enmto tremble         'legns -ji
" Tke council among yourselves, ye menoif dh sivalorous inyr =add  d in. ;p
Israel, what isbest  s to do4  Shall' we Joshi ind Iaid,; swing tle consu
yet insist on' rebelliofnand expose ourselves sword to strIke the fatal'blow &amp;t dsbs*$
our wives and 'childrento 'iinlar miseries We mustf'ia.Ve again &amp;"r '-ld ;b
to meet with an end as ivretched and terri f ormer°uid  cnde ne o hgi   d
ble as our brethren in'the caves oC Adulldniasd dispts and co4adsu         tt
or shall we emigrate to Persia,'where the Tell;ti e n  ,1'fsin,alike-a
people rise igainst'Antiouhtm,:and will fra teriier l i hurri ne wpwi flttz r ox '
ternally reseiveus? Takewise 'council ii desei't iit Iie  ea k'hir61ipg 0of 14ii440
time; and comre etd anwise rdeteriuation." vicae, and 'o - tQh i    l
Like dist gtnhidersamurmining  oirndla     ft ,u."i'.seh    i1d:,    {;'..f ,
ed fromie{the compact masses' th wa   the   n 'afs ethe nrlosd o   h t
riors'      islaway like dogs?"thenaen slain   the              , Y' -5d"5lrc#  S'61
uttered in 'wid awrnmotidn 'd  oft 'aveg  ven for ,eenge Gow       *ajai
cried assionately    ~ athia,' kaow thee and trust imd a
no mo to  art ri the ion  f ~oda "   Te &amp;1rthrea     h,~~er ra


4

Hr  .is 'FRT  OF

s , prove. how powerful honest men are.
Ikgwgeagh'of you is~a hero on the ibld of
b t ,4;od iswith all of .us. We shall
perform miracles on 'the day of 'battle as in
days ef yore, miracles for .Israel and truth."
CHAI TER VIII.
A  FOUL    CALUMNY.
After Jonathan-, an4 his companions 'had
reached the ond ,to Mizpah, the clouds dis-
persed andthe ooarose brilliantly; Jona-
theu'revgnised Alcyuos andmuch,,to his
ownAi gret 'he learned. that Alcynos had
been charged with the execution of Jose ben
JQeer  Alcymo$ was the :schoolmate of
Jorathan  in the'temple school 'for. 'juvenile
prigs, and both of them  resided ;'in' the
heuse  f Menelous. ' Iam- extremely grie-,
ved " said Jonathan to Alcymos, "that it
is tou whom;I captured this evening, Al-
cmosa oteps the ofhfee of an' executioner ?
-4' y      very egeentioner of Jose ben
Joez7    t   geia credible almost;I'ould not
ha et elievedpy, own mother, had she told
me 'the terrible story, But my eyes see and
I'mi t belieeit.
'"'Thycensureis just and deserved, 'said
Aicya{st, ,I         _ thy atie and ready. to
dp for iy sins: Grievous, unpardonable is
O   n   ay.sumnission to thewill of Apol-
Jo       i i  a hingma ,the priest 'Al.Icy
Itiisg.ia  xeOuiner the executioner of
e v;iuerable prine. Thouhast pre-
-t 'd c the,,deed;' buN  my -dill' stigmatizes
S         hnma      Thou knowest not l
T v , tht no man ii eru Mem has a
of ,p hip ow4'. 1'laves and 'nothing but
ave s, remaiim the hyc. 'Oie 'is the t

I was disgusted witl h ber rulers. - 1mill
speak to thee not considering thee inycap.
tor, but my friend, the tender playmate of
my youth, Burninig, going, irresistible
affection that consumed the blood 6f my
heart and the marrow of my bones, kept me
there with iron' fetters against  iny will and
inclination,' against the. loud protestations
of my better self."
"Let me':hcar the whole story," said'Jona-
than. 'I am curious 'to learn-the romance
which -can make a mahi forget' himself."
"Not:to awake thy dommiseration," said
Alcymos; '/fir .verily, I want no mercy, 'no
sympathy Iiam-'ready to, die.,. But thou
shalt know 'it 'what mightyy charn retained,
mein Jerusalem. '-First promise .me, that
thou wilt show me no mercy."
"I promise nothing,'said Joriathan  "In
myestimation the a±ecutioner of Jose ben'
Joezer deserves death; tenfold death, if pos-
sible' "But4l conduct thee to Mizpah where
my bother  oinmands; he has to render'
judgraent concerning thee. I promise noth
"ing.1r                '
Then I will speak," said Alcymos.-
Thou: knowest Iphegine, the- only daugh-
terlof Menelaus. She is the' fairest of the.
daughters of Jerusalem: None- can con
pare tQ her withithe ten . thousand charms,
and' her ten thousandd fold beauty.'
Jonathan turned his fate -from- Alcymos
ohide. his bhinshes, Alpymos eontifued;
'Never 'dared' 12 to lift up my looks tot0so
ofty a person, to the daughit r;of Qenelans,
although; .thousand consuming ',resn8oald
iot faster devour the blood of myheartthan
he fire of love 'did which L felt for:the-
laughter of' Menelaus. I could but- think.
f her, when, I 'woke Her;,mage deeply
mpressed  ,nmy soultw nt wi h me to 4ie
ery curtainn of ithe rad sacred place and
eft me not in my retired'chamber, I was:
ligd for 'lt the myriads of charms  h _wliih
od's blsed'nature ofes. did note ee
,heffemale beauty which grates ths lanes f
lerusalem' °She wasyay angel.-of ,dreams;
s she *aM niygaardiangeniusewhen 1 wge'
still I as. dunmb s the figh ketheoo o
liio'n; Idated, irotspeak 61f Jave te
taughter of Menelaus. Shie hear zt aka a
han and be astonishedd female bhfiass
hangetl its gatuirewA.*h  saeW *4t
et her un4~ heb

T u; .M4

i

- - -  ---  --                   t[t

tos s of the(Kings, when night expands her  'Fathless?" ^c n os repeated,
silent  wings  of repose  over  # e=glowin g the  wr  is too  -,, dteenob1St -
chariot of Helios ,an.the fiery stedsdraw- But hepr first thwe
the      hsarioftthe tninto.the stillaters,'of the atg Aleyms, On evnin wkx!r  {
sea. I' trebled I wepttI'lauggand a mon poure heir.o ybii1~a upo
danced like afo ischlild lkgne not that tlia+ surr u4. rtia * al
I was I  ghaged wasmyn nature . I was ag n laida p'eny k  A  ,n:.,.:. .
sane with 'pssion mad with excitement, whistled through thepalm le .a   if,
myunderstanding wandered my' soul w  iidga there  401e  9e almy
tne ass 90fe.:Icui ed thelades hours Pleasure garde ,of ha;o vert th y
.pa4sdlike slow snails, angry ,I Iws; at scene. _ A siber fionseaqu n b   1'
the sun that he would not swifte ldse h  e4as elfi'4 ea  m   u
career, today  When evening approached, with higher ifatases,:th of lv th-
Iran with Mereirylsee  thehoub$ ofthe ted sobre songsiamy  d
Kings, my heeks glowed, my' heart beat akidheaven adearth ro-
higher and audibly, rembledeldke a  ean ted.away in rosy charms, pz%4 Iphe+gn.;9"1-
cuipritbeforehis judge. A female, figure  "AndIhegine1 Jenat#4e iod  sion-
wrapped in a 'veil-'d cIak care ,alone gtely ,' por'otey's :-ask-
through the shadow 'of'the, palxis..I bitmydous ian,:peak, and Iphang
ilig' toprevent myself from _calling her  11 alt distraoed, .Alyeios 'a  hn
namealoud. Nearer still.nearer theatall 3ute  dumbith rageiolyi
figure cagne, and in afew moments, 2be-and shoo  him. "What. e
held Iphegiie in. my Ombi-acoe,  pressed than' A yfcos: asked  t'r to
her stormy heart; With, iaheosand  kisses I lie" ,y noa  red'gfurgouglg,"-d d
covered her'lips, and she-"-'' '  esthou grie , odao    6   hi&amp;    y
"And she. recprocated'hy  aons? 'ate?" Alc nis askd.'' 'bs       I
Jonathan  kedhastily, pooy conealing  eptd i anepd, '°at'          t.
his"e=itedLaen4  '           '    ,t 'doul d my teudePnO.I;'4t
aPosr dia pteelyian fpliityund
e Ablagings# pte upon mP poe eo orh
a}t androlled the blood intlft currpt i-
throgh   vehA said Aloymoa. "when ,,   attet      atdteit         O"
Iphegine told me,f Thi enzgn mon, hle~  tnnf~hat   'nahVf~~t~
bright star, is, onresent bue sky  t       d ot hr
m tnes   k~ya, ht loeheony               yam,  (ojwhich ' ryo+8 Fo' 10
the,  ter u rrThsserpetd nih*     am lO'' L 3 5r  4hMJk  lF.s'
thoens  e ft  9 s a  te     t
indomitable igreintle he   989jbson
6, tens thousand iss   n
athe burning wo 46 %o  wae o1o~hi               ~   s~
rlft sa+h t
Ovecoe it a 4rlovg1e theeois~El ~~' p5
prse  lt n ig. i  ":sopm ' --{?,rd 'e  e ,° W     o       '',
the        1't},(!pearting ,p e.;      ; ,*
o     d to
't.'
919 gt  .secme" '~ .Rr 1 r 1V
bit   -        "   ts


*

,' ItyV4  a ftuha  rih i ,ar  that hIF il.Ti  Iir' h is Lte present wvr  of {the
tJ + .,:aod.           withe ush~hgoar gtht ofed  ' thee  altenl'wtman:
S                 Iid      t~j~ ~ Theieei, q v,~ bfi~  t
' 6I#  E'_ fi t ,  Th   h4r o tVe  t beber.Xky"y  fo, r tth  it.g f d r  WR -
et    e   d$~adr~'f         ei ib~~,bu h thnter o d"i£e
'nir3.F1 r ' , } tbfY   n~t a  ~d 'n ei. 4   is,  h t f  of niindh&amp; .,   t :
!  '~t , ~; +S     7 ."   r o. r+  , ' "   ek   y  tel'i  f thq  t nig  M1 , h ad  hivctiee  ,g  gi      bn, hEle  nantheeh sWO g  w
xb&amp;"td   jr. .' af e hpi oo i de=v in  3eeaTksewoentht gI see 'heed agtiin,
--  la6 e toa de i ermatioh=ea  a tsarm'~is.  " n; Th  u taGo ouldat thspesonno
c  n k+ d.  ' '   1  dHtt, that al~9lClhah ove t~hatt n  d+.yms o rae  h
~ ie~A il I o~d ~s itwih neoaue jith~and 1 gty n hl''Judaeshe
lt   1'e  eb  e   tfY       supbrof  i  st iee , sa  Mae -
rsm r u4&amp;b  ok ai  rk ni~e;i ' ri  heatoul o efei"
'O   V  is    b   eat off }  ; sul   .i   'ele   ' .id  ta;" -  ff~ t a
# .   n'? i  isea-4 "y   , .plot ik h.Er  so'  v iwe,"wel ln,"t" b  " andr  4   lior&amp; t  Y"h  ' i
~babes~4~4~pis~,eo~n hetera=hr ont i e  thie t  e'in
r' t6el  ,4f i"ip,. l d  cudhea d  t niunvvictae to4uei n-the"yf  : tnis his
y 1     '   R     i's bh~~om  ye  it s    h I, uta4os'  ben=Jot '41&amp;yas ie s a zd
1  athre ' :_t pwit th~e sune  t "r ot  A eridf.teaiheu ho'aedbace Iia'bth - .
Mi ,j . IS #t  ,n .ocris  e m a b4o,  a J '  a'g   yaiidjtise d  hi tem t o s mh a ke Y4  Bi er$
tthat , , all r  * enledtov-thIhavethoun s . lcttleWil~ou; i raettitr-
d "  p,+d. c  l..i'bih.ieen ro r  t he .ti r  o  ,"  a4~d  r an h iti. "  .
$ot'.  r  . th  ql to tth4e- sea I oat o' me how toU di'd'i etiiy nthan o
;+ mfdio                ayllt aske esc   1h etetby .io
?( t"e              no~ low  - ' Ai io  koftLfoohe a  i' nn  i ," 'in
g.':- t     n  's  . ,  ? _L  :aMi ue  t YE  h i  , 4i s   Ua hst i  Teiatd ii
..   ioe   1;.t l  n4 cx t9 hv en a rA~t~ioud theie to' im ii 1rt
, t .-..sr  t,-t.r.rftjh t  'o4  t;  t  1  v   i o ~ ~ s ef Y
!  . ". ~ 1 , "t ~  I "  3 , Kiithe~1%S " 1 a  ,,wl . .nt 4fii +i
x;  a     i~rri  r -  :,e  ,Si  '  «  ; r'th  eta t  u andu  n' nbl
    " f ,  "  ' h x ,,n" s " :,ill, curse, . p1, -  ma,. sio  n,   conducted !id e'  t o'af~ "iF" V e'

dreg 'builder s nsceb1ec around #mj.,  yer1 'i i  I)~
inf'o ine4me,  the sons of the 8ery nt ofmust -'osext
Solomon have renitlin dt   3 l4to, the eo uIf  ti
of sra~e)L.  iey,; urd  he ;acred: np  'b~t xmpppzbr

.I}  e!than  Th"f .mot          ,?4
"N TOr e ; than' onO  Jone 1'drratanrephe&amp;'5
'"'And bou' eakest sotindtetlf'
her?'?~~ 'Jila  s1e  Didst flhbu nt, for
her sake 'g to Zion rxn into lthe mnv derers~
den? ,Ooest thou snot lor'hlen  Whythn
do est' th Ouno&amp;even rmention hiarr na Y e? z
"'i Db i i rovdher, w ithall mny hi rt. id,
love:-her," -.said Jenathz.
" Thou, nwsr1o+e iiei'V' fJud hU ked.-4
"I prithee, }speak more cle lyP,
--muraeris"Jontn'revheeity
"So .te rpiet;+aineiited'~o er l  W
ty; aid~o'mustW noe9clai&amp;~rh
violence, ha'rots and eo1ruptici~
finemtai~erturefnthe :
alsotb it peMiths :.,orr ipti n 'a d' "~
is the onl EGod"-of  at~polktd   c~h
ness is th c' ~  ro  e ao:=their'aeona 1
Nothing is'.sacred "except sefi
deceive a'E, inooep ,t .  f44

athoI dsal        b t  it
~o ilih;- ov  and ttnderh s
felicitmy he aty hp",:
ahei&amp;~a  11'Uuiwokna  T101
"a  i u ebeptive aid, s ail
With her smooth Wuords I
soen, r;;"  t and40 sgrowd
ye blue and serene skies;
y heusa!  d  [           i

,I 


'.4,1J t' f', ''thcusa ~foId-'±dath t 'th   "°   many .men ar out' against me11"
e   s     vSo ter t,itfoes  o f myeo'- he inqiuired.,,
,   __        nie 3&amp;e -'i  h,b ines  Abte ffteeibuDudfired =was the' an-
,        tt   s'      s er~tin''we ",' f'   ~itKfie pantss"
'                 s  d -Iiair; .rh ,,o _  ."hey;"i e,ols.  ::. }1,llprove4this ere
;} o adzef  c  ii "b ' p ri9tipiim.:. te  4r   ws3" sid J uhih. isr,'e  lew
At  r. ,  6i  rby  pN. istry";''.tiey ez"a rt*t p  in  riors eited:  hat
: . ]i r  ° and die  'ianad. on rsi Me   e    ad  af ~of this fool"he a4  Send
ti a .e4 ='  ?ownay' ati= a cd: 'es=- b 1Itd ,Jer aw, inst ntit. 'Am-.
t tai e i . this a farew  ;~it~,she :is  rai  :'wM lda   .( "he' rion  i3°wh m
,+ '$4I$p  ,  4 . ptiv  a clot ";sheip  .the i. rbrethor;'niarde ;did. not g t( gay  t, ,s
e~y   s,'i ine thn rhow thoe. are n ot}''fr"prisofne's"   ' They must
th t    hove,   eiaf  m so     n    /s' ea    cre'd oath ne of aht in s'this'cutm-
'_''4t elai   e cr       ero   se uis sort, '  aig  ay t' us 'and 'be sent lbackto' faor-
o  s±frAt- , sxd aa tine , :who {eaterchey tbroy cveni~ig ' o}Jei'tsalY em {Tos i , 'is;cojm-
r   " wthout'~any +etoin; '. "Es, eompes mnu er" of -Mfr pah, and  *l k=hd d 'it .r us.
?ir     c  ,~mthe city, rd si e ked shoo .T~hroehundred ,,me~ tay r  th thi ii.  he
om r ri sts like a;py. dancese, ,j   p   s  ut:  eady 1in oniehouri, tomarch.-
ah   ~lW   fooll.' WPhj ever we ask;,'To your posts, warriors cif the ;Lor&amp;d,!
r   'i.is Answered ritha joke.s Hfe,? ,a14 ys  hylift ;thea rotand Iin a f 'ew momnxents
b, sr     toliyur' ap sin:.'  at thalf. the 'wai bhug hons resou ended 'thr ouiont
ja sd+o. 'it4  iim?"""1            '       a   'Tekich,  T'eiuah an dagai  e iah
- ,en4 J"ipi hther," Ju3dab ordered  and Vrusli 't.sotinded thire gh 'the sence
,                              :"pr aof~os  e  oeeta Mfr night  iea y' tops acid't e irsh of :asi
,j 'i  t' aret. ' 1fhe captives 4noe ;t followed, then the wr lheopgagowerehe ard:
be  to  d c'oe1  r  '2 '  " +..       , Like "angelic' 'thorues It' .soujide 'to my'
_   i  '  ot "4ndAj.jm   oes. ; :ears,"', Inah e~caimed ' ICild's    layit
ES, ' M  Ju d a hM+Iacabee' 'I ~fathe aInd w'as.til ybis uo it, ,l owComne , the bat-
}.Y a* rrl ,J  d  ft i  ' LKge .,t"  athe  ol  .  r Y"T e  trsie. Ha, the'  L e  he  1pitched  oiibt,
"3, i t A  . r t  " vY ia   " a 'iie r   isy  berea eye-'to eye tho rwar'riors meet:and'mea-
"  'tbie&amp;:° ".hou ti i  y ~~ b%l te  roec ; . ure their $trength, courage. twd prudence.
R ~ le      d  ~eto' forCest,    rf r'hey think to'  revert me byfifteen hundreds
ol   s e  ti r' ;d f :a    ry   :'c me a)a e  rums ofr n g'my faher? 0, they must
.t ''. ikCof ri  ie to .tel  "thee#; .: nd ; ee wad-y to thnt o'mean1ofu.i  re
i~tt l " y ) !4a   , . t', ' ,  , 1    tn .. i /  dd t.  fi re   IM  i  hu dred'in-
'.  '.y grat' ser i+e to  th '  1ause of st  sir d "patraits. ;, rot  er on a  ,ap'now
i  R rti'  rtt. f .'  '. comes..thy  ,}ti'iiue.'to strike thy  first blow,  toR
*~ ' , ,                   ;,:,,,, #* =Eoe ,o i!fl1arobd nier  neck. l en a th ysno ~ef thbsodo
~'W ip  4n4O'r ii    ) ' ivu  e~c the'b&amp; j _      'a.han) gnahe
-  '7 }i y ,.  ~  't-  tt  1+'n slsiy       his',     hi&amp;': tteeth'"  a.,nd ~"   rw n,# :g
u  ;- r i; thoe , we t  ; rr  , r ,t e :  ,,frc t hl m r o ci nt ~n1
{ .r .F  y~ d  J  ,  e t l T  i 4, Y., z %.   * It   ~4 ; . .; °   4  f  z  o k ?tt'y4  li i

"4;,
4',

Imein  iru

s are redsfonmiich, .

is   ' +p   ofv   toy, / nd rr a .iprge ixtthis ; d ertxDaid te  neiy'i~~srn~
rqlrddtier'o   iosire e nt   { deE.g~  i ~ ~ h
az - id , u t i l  r~~ Y Ur ~   h~ f  ez',e y  iL 2,"  ,-h' td  y   .  .2'd    r  L -"
t  ia r' ,  W defled .dfit. J  {" r  di -Y 4gri Y r no , p  af.vT ur a:_ _ rl j4 M I t 4  4 Y e  t
yits  ords o u~e bhr  ,adte i  to4w {   bb e '! Ee  a  do  4 h
t         ,    r f+, d antIra li th y  x  bt   ' hs b~t1 ,.   s   I "  .  _ H  13,ti ..
tscertihegto  sone   of  it tid   r e  9nc:e sJ ire hd  i ee~l  ais M1:y°kd'''t
"isV   }a  we'is  no ire i   td b Y 'h  e -  1+_" ' x  3'r, eixif  p'" +Y wheu   y j
ly.            .  v rentwod", ai~oud~ mi  t ~ ~   ~t.  ,i#
so .ret o inthe  an  Be i  tee  b hi
~p         _
ter, t typtwooson  le, aaa '  i , ', rage a°d in   atk  ; ti  a '
the'eemtis6!04tinon  $ph t  i.WO*&amp; rs    t ,'iVie
uu  Y  f  r  '1 r "W  - o.7 Dti" t e . ' ,  Al $4 x  . ew ' S6. y. &amp; if."
~o~a4o  w  ikdad~p   ,~ eo h   soa.eaJry ' : htno

tiger

*11
nd

ci

awa
a ,ts .


* ng L, *  *  *  esnd
~true .d'us,,toy infornx
4h0  lKingarmy:, if. they

2'A~h~~~&amp;f   k t       I
r f .  Al$ {  final es tw~f  tth1h ?
thu  s yr i i ked:}Y' ,..  1t i ie3 'fE

yoi,jjIaie byadvaiit ,gqotipositions l e, c.
l. ~ons~dqr wlIiall this before y oi hd oi4cK';.
~j iyoui master e in truc ' you, :o wa to
woheze. theAs io ' an;?a lka1. j  My
hoary 1ools" °ouCdr tahyu  thtIai
i is de ~t o y ut-h  TaXrdCbt1e
wil d'de e ore 'the nsuiu nxees ;g 1i eve
their crowti of:' B si nwbethei tras t Iu h ni
and" a just cause outbalance superior nt4x,-,
berg a d ndvait go i.s pos.itions J,, e gm-
Syr ia n  our discipline an4r  em%
may be inferior to yo ars but.,our eourage i
the battle will speak with:'A'thousand -tongues.
Bgone now.  *" Time is precio'us.
Tnhe Syri u s4 co Pd o t~i no -mee;ear-
igo t~heoI A ,nnan  and were set
aura,lae cojmiaxide a*w
'r r 'Lookto''Lhi utpobsts, , my son," M atathia.
con bianded',wen';the:' Syrians had ~e t t ie.

I RS'71

upjiears ,to' bet a '*r'etlhed f+ cO  ai  e 4ma' c ue  d wih a  isitie  o
try a1h          A fouHts ht } ! t(k t s t Wtl  r thq~k~e~fit~  ~a
'~ti~ ! me'r y  I ft ahit  b ai i . ] u£t  ?s  1aimed    FPermit thys lf nott  e~
"takeni, " th stranIrier cri c eh ef ly    u,   Vd sron gF tho x ai't   I  , n~eti ~~die
'u eithmove  fazi honeat ,nia. " t11Vi4nY task i a° cktan1s  'ed Ij a i  ?
'~Ifto  ay  r this night th '  at-  or tix' r  i  ~r~~  didI!I:~.
1 nm; id  'ntl  "~d Rf~tbel.treated and w nt ouit Y  e  . f~
f  s ~uch:, A:ra , Ma c! a'ng e athuslzsm  re~elI a Ed ;A  ,varlet
t  -,l   t" r,  ,,t;",:rol  ,tw '; 1  n;tyr  li  t.{ 'tr  r'  1 rz e   he p lD QiY  q i
D et fett   7 kd/ebr txarih  disto    a:,t6d:.g bk  e sig a a  a beenta  nfn Ha v T  he
"                          7,;he d ipi  x po  d "   txgnlv  as it    Y i  Y  r'n2fund  i th,  bfix' f
mea t icrdnntI$m&amp;gi  silt  E' i 1 ie 'd18th o Syhi/i d   iidin
1J   AAIno tl'  j[pi  e~,iR 'WIG
tilF+ide  Of  j.  t  :.9ffe  n ,  },r,.  T:I,.'  el     a"  a "'  i nc. '4 , 4 1, ,    t.  ) t f h 'h1 il "t1:'i   sr
eWa                              In pt  r apfti4e~iis~e fth i1A Vo~~'  6dd
tan no  ntiian: ,  t , ie,.d,  te ery ltte.ht Co'r  h~1  c
,ii ,  }  +  y ,r ot ', r  '  Y o n  t '4 eignt"  t1,.Ut
op  i et ':  '  r  ,    "3-j.u rr Y  YC r r''',"f,, 'i4 ~ bu i  Ztiii
senti e  '  S/l d  ahah a  e hin  rhe  u tGe/  hc   'so   o  4  uo
besn!F c  ohs  nse ro  l  teitat~ d@iy rn1\, ' -  aobt)ime  tr ,,  I sy tut- tg+
(4o ibs Ltah'tohitnuh te hbeiay         4hatio'a~ong
awed, ifh r~ b a t 'hou, and , s , s azq n  d ies  scresnt   e'r°PVi.
so   degraded  .fnd dmx r "  iY  )j ,th 'oiaof t    .w# tAl   T fas
coveaut4ha~ie an t~it~s~goW't~pinind  r"t:id 1o s ,e s  at en of I-
rupton- rooino t  e ,eaofAMirf7' 11Mmnisi a oes' orkc1  i  tr a~h9g
paranea isthai tine  1$~t TQ  aiz~p        J~
g r.       r      .:_r. t , ^L:.-!'rw  d   1i' 44e'h}qa  +p"ea4  y. h 'ou  wi  ai , ty j&amp;  - 'it +.  id,
dig;oV }, e' c~ r b,  e  .. f,   I  i  d  t  a4 I  i el   * :e;n  fun'  tryso +
bud  {{froayillVW ./  rr  r'y  J  F t , t ' o':I s Y    7  ,y t s  e"l". , zsx4andt i7 rf "  'nder'
lid     Qt  ww  rd, t.,i44t  a I,"e  e  p  L.fl t  rP h
*  a            rpja44*1ohe*rd    trti ~      Md4  t  nh
omnI  &amp;cfr zr\  o Q.4 , iii:    ant eftn  ., lt   t
{","l ' it \7   ,,i tt.l "r, Inst       5i'rt r $
tea  oft  \  tI zvcI., ; '.r, . ,,   rr  in s4 ae 1was1a; $#  4,;1";t
i .?  ,°  r fdI, )   lj  r  the  ,  \V'  $h  ~ to4  6W z i&amp;Vdf e e  ?!  a e$  f"  he  v M~,'hi  "
1tI  *  }   V.'-' '(    , :'  't  i ,  rW oui7  Y   I ., . t ke n   i.," tial's ' .d ,  ..  p1i o


aio~~fear4gwith.OI ~onetib       tghtri e trpsops tba he ie14ef acti1--
avit ry   gr  to te g e  th ; erg ttvithistanwg  the thundering  voice of
Satathiyhich igke the *id, sounded ev-
Syeo rmyes          '.atattm  rg lh e,hesreaeitganc of'the, o patriots
{         n $ix           - grEw itter $ow a till fi htingtey
" N  y  ier"  nwas 'hie   ettISWv?.retre t ''towa d thiri enerimcents.-
.aha aw dti e ti y. $ee tpnot, A  ighty Gd, thywar iorae-
St             e Jir     treat!'; !  tfita tied, vehemty, and
0rUiery a  1i8nde   ud 1 large tears rolled nryihis ceeks. Again
t  e  US   e     )  he wartriors  charged eeiein i' ort1sly,
pA t  gnals fa a, wr 1eaBard f ooi ztiie:yrianst ta their ground. Still it
dir  ta 4es ''Qp  it :assen ied b =  eared' atrhey retreatted' on the left
t L         d" en n,          wigderif . rMpatathia instantly hastened there,
S }.;i %hr   "':  ;'      L    ,   "d,  aid  t atht but lyu1d: detectpo ato l cause fogthe re-
Qup Oaee etri     arn, 4     treat:otkthe.enemy, etil,,e retreated; Now
Ipyourpo exgOr of ths, a ioo i d:  i he heardthe4and  Tr%9h sound vigor-
p4 and   t alx ntly for H1 pele, ousy i .hep rarof the enemy "
e  .  -     , r  a         " Almighty Ruler of Israel, these are my
j ho     g b o n6t soun d 4ithiugh sons! M t;thia cried, and falingyupnhis
49 camp n  ida, Tgerua , i ao l e,  ry  kneeshie ifted uph~ehanidsad explaimed:
, hie ongs ofthe Lvievthea -It ru  e itorycir iy sons cum
efs       t of5 aiu"thy shoit  ofthe like  thunderbolt thiw tidig ruslied
.warQrsireyt th%  a  h      through the ughtigranks, nilkharen-
.u  s       ..lee ta   itodljtfre tinpfed ever breags&amp;nd with re
:, v ,a 4irole ,  :sathe  G  Syiiaii oaich uewed gorthe warriors adanced Now
Al #f+orq ,  iinthelrs r 4rtred theme mordane and: re flagof Ju-
ow 1oate o ow  ad oottone. - dh ceabedewas vi ibe in the ry midt
3AY4 orAT .pt te arlois; h e rayed o the'iemy: .The ft rays-offhe morn-
.  'he  w~or iu ad lCay ha  rs INicong y ind thedbyiagenerals their
twta w    i     diy apid the perilgis condition, aid thelreteated as
arriors fae tQ tees  d f o ,.vitor yand fist as espibe tothe right Buft to&amp;late,
.eeansgretreatedt te the h  faias s  !ogeat inthe'Syrian
,ave i,"ili heer t   iakstatelepha andan&amp;"eafahlh amels
i  ) $e toea h oIhr "too ikd i e  6l  d mujes", iover lte zfhtn} try fam-
"ite     t coldi the               ' pleidetheir feetCWhosoee escaed the
tal  orr therotheh, h                 patriot:        te
he eeha* ed'are                        a  tha0e' una ?ve eed iasoe   of blood
af ase  uf adine. 9ehdeia in
I'Fathr  We are  ls tN" Simdn oried' "i }r F iote i.rae sof dodgida  +'ehrew   ad SyrIan
''c n nt e~rd egeli-ah e 4 the ele~ le4 se y edeg~Te %gredas of thg4png
u  jterfyth.~i"~        'ed th iresi6f theiooun9d we#nit#ed-
i H   t Inot mth1er 'M ia n  Matahi a  Th'otiPt"ir, theeahngfg of the
ee i dthy so   ueypiii!i ith  Thi   t  ps the  er oe a f Joetitesd  fl the/air
sword in his righthaind Au&amp; the'lonhe~nn ~  del
"~In1I~l6 e4d441i(o uhd NiinutE- i #$h,$tr
3;iitnudrettg~ ostit estnd lionlik 'e ,.el ~ afiseny  da-
h9thi eM ethe massesa S'he victoy 4emeii   M bvk-- het
at eor . o mi'osts ise w:thes da (4t i a e 4  re #dSd
-~~~r                            .1wrgoN         e
a el  tae  y  hl  "pi.  r n- hey d te  ca  4f  4  .9  datbh-;
Wtnh,      faa~hebrWana,; i; aes.  arhe' m  do4dsn foal ythde : i4owhe
't         son li  d i+tiA    bers; 1! i  °3hV '  r:!\%i":W " "F h0 ; V,'ro  1 btaIth reP wyite hrou i  he

ao iQt h ie S tialzeotiaouy ;i

I. I
'II

1TH3'IA MAOCAB'nIS.

ii  '.

Thenona:thian'told "his adventures .i Jou she  ried "'iRi'e  ,s"'o deseerae nt
eolem"nand how he'rescued Jose 'enJoezer this solen1u moment "with' Wdu ti
His father embraced andkssedhim. Then and join hands over the remainsOfiiIi
Miriam  said, hoW  she .and' her daughter roic"'fathei.o"iJhi otr" hafnds i, fatal
would notstay onrthe mountainss when'alll ove, andp'ii d l  t'     °edeemisei
that are dear to' them fight the battles" of drive:'the invadeis frbii this hoffitin, Ih
,he Lord.                                rest' orIrael ssctary, srael= tinhts
Matathia was overpowered withhappiiness.' and liberties  lRi eiid 'be stetified *it
His' last strength'as' spent. in the terrible the spirit~of yoir fathei- tp b~ethe deeinf
night. 'His bodygielded. He saik into the of suffringIsrael  le desired it! '
emabrace of his wife' and laid his head on  'Like' one nuit theyrose,'liftedl"up tii
her bosom. ",The patriots of Israel are or- hands to the solemn oath, and swore -to be
gahized, "he said.  "My sons are faithful fraternally united for the redemption of Is
to God and Isf'ael i"My task is done. fI rael.  "Reazar shall'be our rei  'd Ju
die: '"dahl Maccabee our captain;" they exlaimd,
"Die not, hero Matathiaf" Miriam cried and ina few miiniites the entire armyre
in accents of 'acute pain.   33  3e      echoed it.,,                        rR
"I cal live no lnger," he said faintly,
'"My task"is accomplished, Eleazar,, my            'CHAPTE       X
son shall reign, Judah shall be chief cap-     TiHE P E O L        o 5n5 o 's .o ' '
tain of the host, and Jose"shall re-organize   No tidings of Aleymos!"# the highpriest
the Sunhedrin. Be united always, just, pi exclaimed: ""Should he indeed hare; betray
ouS and kind. Love each other, your God ed as and joined' therask of 'the'mebels?.L.
yournother, your sister, your people, your It  almot impossible  He stands so'high
contry--God ismy banner.'             in the estimation~ of Apollonitis,;he proved
He closed his eyes'in' the repose of death himself so 'faithfully attached=to 'the cause
in the arms of Miriam, and his six children of the' king H eyeainothave' d'eseited°sa
knelt' around' his couch, and' prayed 'with Butwhere is he?' "Theiiht isnearl  pent
hinin the last moment of his lifeS- theand Ahoneiof his soldiers returned." And
sun gets," Miriam exclaimed. "So the thphg         te tnp      ef enus uinder 'the
ro returns tohisking's palace and lays down lynx eyes of dAepasiahowill o&amp;ndiscover
the victor's sword at the throne of his lord. .her real shitiinents andeiort then to the
" HIs :dead! 'My father is dead! R" e king or to Apollonius. 'Iu"wrist be  ar fhl:'t
becca exclaimed, in''apainful voice: ""He  'A noise was heard in=theadoiaiiig art-
is dead! it ran like  ildfire through the meant. Some soldier 'quarreled  ilh Am.-
ihe shutsuf 'ictory subitied  ram; but he d    :.,i}d tei r t ;:fsnd
"He is dead'! i  it sounded 'from all lips: menaces, and sau rrily:   - '
The Levites surrounded the canp and-their   'The gloomy night 'raing
moelanch   liiruss s filled every heart with  'en"n6 tb5stnbean restr
mourning               'with taint, yletcele iting adiance
m   r nin.              '  '        'On the hill-tops ot the [est.
" He is not dead, .Miriam exclaimed.-      The mists are slowly rsln  '
"Here, in my heart, he lives. "There, in      From the valley a the plain
the heart and' history of his people, hnewill  And a eph'it isawalong,
live forever: 'There, therei'the regions6f  That shall never tiep again
enter   lig' h1e is' no  Aeyeid ih ticom-   Ae m      ratison
r  s                  The splt lis  tirrixg "song,A,
par' 'of.Seraphitn, Whosingdthe prais ae of  Thagt like the o'e n:
the Almighty. There, there, 'hiis  d  Ive'  With its solemii bass alp ."
himi theyct"e  erwi 'nayd redie 'im to  Amram would #      nb'a~h
eternaIblhss   Thhe-1iseedtWe face of soldiers continued age     ~       ni
the beloved dead.. The. strains 69f"he L  the highpriest epenefthe 4oor'op thtart r
vitey  i iteiiuytddl'0l6ein'Sifence ment, to inquire aft~ithfesse fheise.
th( g    ggf         iaigfo NW3fweaWd                                he
and.ff~lt tliOMie    nt'r   a1Af lAk oala 33' e"


T   ,E  F. I R ST  O F
S " Qfebhadai I sing, thi prince 'of thy  Suddenly Amram stopped and looked on
eoleorse woho..hntei me.like a wild:beast," the highpriest with such an idiotic visage,
sadminrn, c             Jthat he laughed loudly. " Is this a joke, or
.'he ighpriest castpiereing look on the is it seriousness?" the highpriest asked.
soldierswhi Ph ,a:sed them to speak, "The  "Poor devils must always be merry, said
fool roaimed about ,ntside the city gates," dy teacher," Amram  replied; ' for they
said the.oicer of the patrl; "we caught have nothing to lose and everything to gain.
himi as a vagabond and brought him: hither, Rich men look serious, because wealth nul-
because he said,' he ras  ypur fool.'"  ' tiplies 'cares, The fool jokes and the wise
The highpriest dismissed  they soldiers, manareflects. So m teacher'said and I be-
and examined Amvam: "Where wast thou,. lieve it, I believe everything my teachers
fool?"           ,                      said."
"1wantedto go to the mountains and see  Thyteachers made a fool of the," said
the rebellion," he said.  It must be nice the highpriest.. "I ,mustknow who taught
fug.:' ' r                             thee thin song. Tell me the. truth or
" nottell thee to stay in the city;  ' Don't, 0 don't my lord, do n't deliver
why then didst thou run away;" the high- me to Ashmadai!" the foolcried' "He-
priest-asked, indignantly.              can't he hear us? he is 'omnipresent."
"Because thouhast sent away the Wise   "He. has no power in my:house," the.
men to see the rebellion," was the answer. highpriest .said."
"I thought I must follow them, that wisdom  "Can he net catch lord Aloymos  the
be complete. Thewise can not be without fool inquired.
their folly, which, IEthought, is my ,part in  "I do not know," said the highpriest.---
the world. Therefore Ifollowed.them, that "' Tell me who taught thee this son, o
they be wise and I commit the follies. No  "Do n't, for mercy's sake do n't," the
as thy soldiers brought me back, the.wise fool cried, "and I will tell thee what Ash-
- h a-
men must commit all the follies themselves. madai did."
"Nonseige! !lone shall leave this city- " No evasions, I must know who taught
unless isepd him away, said the highpriest, thee this song, and what thou in the dead
'and I have comnianded thee to stay." of night hast to do outside the city gates,
. Th9 fool appeared .to care little for what where spies and traitors lurk to do us harm"
the bighpriest, said.  le danced a funny  Alcymos went away and I.'ran after
roun, then he sang':                    him," said the fool. "Then' he went into
-t'     iu5deeatosay                a tower and I remained outside. -going
s en                           around the tower I saw Alc ynos coei out
And foolsin  the House remain,
Whennests in the teple swear,        with many armed menhaving an old man in
And har ots in stei+'declare:       their midst.., They went on and I followed
The world is al sie isne.         them. -,Therecame Ashiadai and' his' de-
But Amram,shall sing and, rhyme,   nons and tr
To conquer the cargsand kill the toe  and ,ow down Aleymos and his men
candearried them away to Sheol, where lAsh-
The moon hasnho lustte, nay,
The sun has no warmth by.day,  'madai resides. I ran away, and the soldiers
The starseare all darkld di m.      caught ne."
They drink too much wine Justnow       'Itpssble!" th         ps
Mushnake to the king, thei~rbow,          I t ,possible !' the highpriest exelaaun-
And ing to the  g their bymn.    d  Alcyos was attacked and captured?',
But Aram  n ust sing,;Oh d rhyme,  Nor no, no, he- was notattacked; ,he was
To couquer the caroe and kill tihe time. ' cast down, tied, and carid off," hefoo
To blossom, th'otrees refused,  '.atiyinterruptied.
aruocouN  -'Howdoest th know, itas Ah                     di?
ure,~id rnn is ain.Speak, fool, speak truth, 'the lyghpriest
AN~iet ar"Did no -I
kdnlthedyg                   ''wy           eehim at     rayi thipe
",                              hoiei this    ey~~,      D   4

" That young mani?" Menelaus asked,     "Is this the people's soik?" th  igh-
hastily.                                priest asked.
"Pst, do not call hinm a' young man, he  " Yes, yes, and they se the' are 'gin"
might not'like it," said the fool. " Yes, it to teach it to Apolloniis  i d the King,"Said
wasthe same lord Ashmadai.              Amram with a monotonousvoice and a stil-
"Jonathan! 'my God, it was Jonathan who pid visage.
'rescued Jose ben Joezer and captured Al--  "Fool  and children tell truth," th g h-
cymios!" the~ highpriest exclaimed.  "My priest "aid: "I have no need ofldthee
child is lost, lest, my beloved Iphegine. My present. I shall call thee hei  fter.
dear, sweet, beloved"child thou art in1 the  "And all pow'r is in vain"e:.high-
power of impure Aspasia," the highpriest priest'soliloqized, affer Amram was' gone.
lamented," a hostage to Apollonius for Jon- "And the heart feelsits pain"--  01he
athan. He is a rebel, and '-thou art lost." fool is right," he cried. "'I am a mere au-
Menelaus covered his face with both his tomaton, if I can not save my Own child."
hands and weptaloud.                    He made many schemes to rescue 'phegie
No, no, o, 1Tan'not lost," Amram cried, from  the' iands of  spania,'b he I d 'no
"Ashmadai wentoff with Alcymos, I am confidential man, ito' help him in  , li
not lost." 'his schemes, and missed most pafifully his
"Silence, intolerable fool!" the highpriest friend Alcymos. Theday follow      a
thundered. 'Then he cried again, "My perilous one for the h.gbriest; for from
child, my dear Iiphegineis irrevocably lost. all parts of the country tidings of defeats
Amram stared a few minutes on the pain- of the Syrians arrived and alarmed the roy-
stricken mani; then, as'though' inspiration lists most  seriously: Ten tiins the.high=
had suddenly overcome him, he sang in a priest called 'the fool to send 'hm to Aspa-
jubilant and shouting melody:           sia, and always he dismissed' him again, be-
"In the valleys on the mountains     cause he'disliked to 'make use of so .low .
There is glory, are the'fountains     man to carry out his schemes. 'Now Alcy-
Of my joy, my delight.             'nos arrid with hit soldiers. it was'wel-
All my minstrels-sweetly warble
Merry concerts, that the marble      Comedby the ighp       as afried ,coming
Must rejoice with delight."         from the grave.
"Wilt thou, intantl be silent, senseless "Tell me, Alcyo isny faithful friend
fool!" the highpriest'cried.            the highpriest said, tl 'me allyouknow.
" Pardon me, highpriest, it is the song of "When ,at a short distance from Golgo-
- Ashmadai," the fool stammered forth. ".But tha," said Alcymos, " a-host of armed muen,
if thou dislikest it, I will sing thee another led on by Jonathan ben Matat i , 'as lafter-
song. In plaintive notes the fool continued: wards learned, fell on uslike fu ies.: We
In the palace, in the mansion'      drew our swords and fought them. The
There is weeping, apprehension,     i soldiers performed wonders ofeonrage; bn
And all pow'r is in vain.         'the.ranks of the enemy increased fast;,thou-
Under jewels is affliction'sands, it appeared, stormed agais           fro n
In the purple contradiction          'ands i appe    vin orean    usfnd
And the heart feels its pain."'all:sides like a living ocan, thousaxds, I
n  s     aywith swords, lances and c lub4, ith
,for it is too ows and stones, They'attacked usefrm all
true," the highpriest said; -"Who taught sides, pressed uns between 'their ahieldst
thee this song?"      'nd
"So 'they sing on' the mountains, When " Yes, yes," said the fool, whose pess
thyspeak of the cities,  the fool 5aid.- ence~was notobserved bfre."    aW$
" Then they sing-                       mhyself, Tien 'cain  Ashmdl#ttz
"Let tepower be divided'             thousand f1ery horses an4 r    pe~o ~~4
And the Jewelsle derided,            and thunlder, wih a thousand flery h4s
Let therpprple ecan;'  '            ike those in which ia dpe  heta


TUE 1 RS Oh.
g"WUtyou   gatJy begienk  saucy fool!" thought, and gashed his, teeth with anger.
the ghpriest said.                        " I believe you, my friend Alcymos;but:
"I loye to.herJim," said Alcymos, smi- will Apollonius believer it?" was the reply
glingiir,. .though;lhe exaggerates the mat- of Menelaus:  If Iadd to itithat Icharged.
tr r.in hiswna anastia w   .- -ing thus you with the duty to watch Jonathan and.
pressed together we were-seized andtied." not let him escape from this city, and Jona-
"Thein the fiery. men ,e ttheirchariots.to than rescuedl Jose ben Joezer. from; your.
shield lir;A lcymos and his host,'  the fool hands; captured you. and your soldiers with-
quickly  interr pted,  that none of them out the loss of one drop of blood, ent -you,
was wouned or harmed otherwise."        back with yourarms'and jewels.of honor,,
iWill the fool be silent?" the highpriest what will, what must Apolloius think of
t sed, indignantly.yu
He is'quite amusing, my divine lord,"  - " I see, my lord, I am ina perilous posib
Ai eyros, said,,smilingly, ." His fantasy is tion," said;Alcymos, ",and I appeal to your
loft.--Then we were-dragged to Mizpah, love, your magnanimity ,your "- -
rg, formed the, commander, if we be  "Not necessary,'' said thehighpriest, "I
dis issdgwthin. tyentyfour hours, know-your heart.,  ou have brought .peril
ee e   rpon;ur heals should be, aveng- on my daughter. Her life is in jeopardy.
ed, 'a dnne' of them sliold be spared."  By your neglect of duty Jonathan. escaped,
"'Then Ashmadaiki wad' terrified ' saiathe andshe is the hostage of Apoilonius for him,
fb1.0  AsliDndki earshadly themewing of who desecrated the temple,'o  'the;great god-
baDs            you"poc       n ,ats, dess. ;Deth ishpr, lot, if Jonathan: can not
blak cats to mew for you? I know Ashma- be;brought before 'his judge, death by your
daifeare the mewing of black cats."     fault: If you rescue my daughter ;-'
FPool oi thu dosenot observe silence, 1  "I will, my divine lord, if it cost my-
will calls ixiisdlai,'  lcymosisa, -.They blood," Alcymos cried. "Where she dies
ismissed us,nbut'kept Jose'ben Joezer."  I must die, for I can only live'where she
ivin      ' the highipriest askd.   lives."
Yes, ;   ivine lord,! 'w' ,Avi  the answer.  "Well, then, go and rescue her " the
"'CL'  l  '..                         .
.Al, lhen the old raven will.croak re- highpriest said, "and we are even."
bellion and disobedience against our,, pater-  "And the King?" 'Alcymos asked."
naln8ieith' ei hi       e steiclaimed,  "I will plead'for you," said the liighpriest.
"andne thousandiienwillhearhim. Al-     " And Iphegine?'" Alcymoscontinued.
cynio, ybtehave lost a battle for yourning."  " Must-fii'st be rescued,' was'the rely
A'N,:no,,n"ea;he didnot=fightat all! "the  ,"And' may I then hope?" Alcyios ask-
fools iterferedu ed.,
S  ' Siledce'! ""Alcyknos commanded.      "I' am  the favorite of} Antioehus,'' said,
so it looks, indeed;" 'said the highpriest. the highpriest, "I will plead .your cause."
'{I appears  as1 though ydu had an under-  Aleymos observed that Menelaus did Tnot
standing Fwith the enemy  Ho* isit,"that wish to understand him. With inane holy
n6ne ws as tonded,'and loulet irn with' your promises on his lips he'left the highpriest.
ariti .Yung man, if this comes as it' The fool sang merly:
ist, tot    a   f   p     ,onius I know not'  :'."A8hmadai is a fly,
iht*tu -fate will be. Believe you are        yAIcO t all right.'
sindei-ily attaed te, thed King' :'' Menelas'heard al o
Alcymos did not fight.".
Your wisdom, my divine lord, is that o T
a'B~dd~~ ssi Alynis.,"' ow  copr  dignation, still he cold&amp; not i elp thinking
l~n  i.rthe' erenigAseit tih home with our of his words and peculiar behavior.:  '
aris~ Thi# dat is intended to Oteate sus
1~iibn aahlt me. 'y lrd'I an ino. C H A PTZ Xii      xi.'
""~,         ~iy     napany Iphegine sat silentlf~at th~ejfr 'A
Was  a sh xtly ausrep    "nt4   4pragin the same temple of   eee~hv

- Tii Mr $0A,&amp;U&amp;AJlifS '
seen Jnathan .'Serelhe aatmyside,"' tageof iApollonius for Jonathairwhi  oend
said Aspasia,'"here he decJre'd that 'he otated'the temple of. the goddeseand join
-lovedme, and- only ,,his.word, and promise ed the  aiks .of-the rebeiN If he isines
given.to' you1 fair' Iphegine, prevented Jim placed before Apollonias* death is 'your penL
from entering~withi me upon the covenant of alty, so-the laws of Syria-dictate I.exLorig'
love. I shall; neverforget .the sigh :that es- the gd of proud Jonathan.' Writoe;:himin
gaped his, breast when he told these words" what a position you are  on his' acea nth
"Yet you accused him of, having desert and he will voluntarily 'come to rescue 'ou
crated tha templeof the goddess,"' said iyphe who 'suffer for hium"   ,',
gine,'" and would have delivered him to the  "And what shall be his lot when here,
judges to beQnidemnlied, had I not in tinie turns?" iphegine asked, hastily. '
rescued him.; .yet.you would have delivered . "You are free, and I will.protec$ h.i
himinto the cruel embrace' of .death, had 1 fox he loves ;me," said Aspasia, ' ether
not saved him."  , .                   great goddess'do I olemly promise, thatnos
"Only to ,force him to breakhis engage- harmsshall befal hint!'         t A
mentwith you,"'said'Aspasia, "onlythere-  "No, I shall not write; 'I; shall ndt entiod'
fore, I: wished to detain and terrify liim.- him away from the field -ofhonor nor en-
He confessed his love to me, he iifoimedme trust him ,to your care," Iphegine replied,
that honor was the only tie that attaOhedliim resolutely.r'
to you Why should:I not attempt to deli-    Be:careful my'lady," said 'Aspasia
er him from 'his fetters and'gaitdhin fory " You call the rebel's task a field of'honor
heart? Iphegine,' it is cruel' and unnatural o  bieak the staf over your ownthead.
if a woman hearing only the v 'ie o selfish-Why should you not entrust him to my .'cres
if              v~ie   selih.     whh loes me best; him :whop JI love
ness, ties the man whom' she loves to her' hIwho   on
best? Here' are the materialsawite Ad
triumphal car, merely because once in'an                 .             write a .
hour of weakness, he said that he loved her. save  m from the ignoininioisi dealef
ha'      f your h   e rebel, and save your own'dear life: ar ei-}
If 'honorteaehe'the{flee yourself nt for one                    o doesnele
sacrifice his love, selfishness must not 'occane
so'o     cptesa        c."           yousave the life of him you love.Take it
sion you to. accept the sac~rdice
ee.       im whateverp lig ht you please vyou:,umst*pitre
He loves me!" Iphegime exclaimed
"hod knows, he loves .me truly and' faith= yumust  l hi  back '         '
fily!              .' If I write and he return not?" Iphe-
"Sd your selfishness expounds his words ge asked, slowly.
and'behavior', 'said Asptsia. 'Ialsohedrd . He 'will come, for honor is his' god
-his assurace of'"love, and beis' not tisedto saidAspasa, "he' can. not let yoU die for
me by his' word: ofhonor. 'Ti o'might ero him.
claim, heloves me, if i did not know the in  'lThen Iean not entice him to dieforme,
consistency of man."                   saiphegine.'
" of athin canl not be inconsistent," said  Die! who tell you he : hall die?, As
ih ire   "kHii too hoble, to magnani posa'asked.' 'le loves teeas  l6fe hi.
mouse to be faithles." I kiow him wel"  Lwillprotec him   Havmgmagnanhigus,
You saw him with the eyes of love and y saved your life yonumust absolvedsmnof
'sa ~i    '  I  aw-himinhis promise, and nne he will be.a W&amp;
selfishness;  idAspasia.     saw     indare:lay land .on the favorite of£Aepasi
a moment when passion ovrrule  hi man-
r                   s    eh       I .dare, :said :A mram ; hwithu ,a
ly 'pride, I ,sew'him  4tlitut  disgise, the  ""dr,"sidA, 'n
41  '    . '                 eremony entered they apartment ndedtggd
true man, and there lie told mehe loved me, with.flamingoe oreA asia, IidoiWQ
ani _Ipthgfli"minglooks"b'frAsp is
'       hereonsternation uttared'a lrie1(&amp; 4hn
spe           ah    ea   gated on hinwishpoaiid:Amate~ut liIk
ne     pieg ne as e.   Ifhe leaves yo~L, ga~o ~    ram, the dfrm4 oeitw
I~i~,~iy  e ~e&amp;~  egine,: Aspaisia eASee 'ajie  twei a   t e     e
cipedtA4'Mdido tphwiswrp4ratandubsi gaedand y$tp         i tKhi4
Y0#$dsadardy        a Yiuagrthe:shpse 'a4sdeating   nuiptta1 i   $~Q


*                            ..T.°n" F 1.  ? ir'p.
huang frokiihis shoulders in graceful folds." deathbed',ursed'ydu', on aecounf ef the poi.
Amri took seat opposite Aspasia, 'his left son you administered to'him,' t be' the hair-
hahd' ondthe handle of'his sword,his right ess of his wealth' and the concubine oldthe
hand grasping the golden handle of'his dag- mighty Syrian; I can assistyour memory
ger, and eyeig hermwith piercing looks he to recollect the very words you dying hus
coviand d 'oolly: ' 'We must be without' band ' spoke."  'May' she find no rest" on
l esses."                            earth, no' repose in the grave, no mercy in
M4s though wnder the influence of a charm heaven;'-~-What ails you,' rich and mighty
Aspasia waved with her hand, and Iphegine Aspasia, 'that you tremble so violeitly?--.
casting a grateful look 'on Amram disap- The spirit of your' assassinated"'husband
peered through aside door: Amram like a will not return'from Sheol. The' witnesses of
badilsk:continued' silently eyeing his victim your crime are dead, Apollonius has faith-
who, pale and'trombling, could-not 'bear his fully disposed of 'them. I alone live, and
pieron g looks.                        one witness condemns none. Israel's laws
Aspasia could no longer master herself.-- are suspended: The mightiest of the Syri-
SI gveried, 'passionately, "Wbo gave you kns is your protector, why do youareible,
permission ,to :impose on me, in my private Aspasia?"
The silence of the graveyard reigned:in
4Myself, all myself," Amram responded, theroom when' Ainram paused. 'Aspasia
coolly.'  'It appear your servants love the resembled a dying person. Trembling and,
'gold better than their great:mistress."  deep moaning were all the visible symptoms;
'1will-dismiss' them all," she eriedy ik of' her life. -Amram gazed, upon her with,
heanger           'malicious delight, and with a terrible.smile
'"Hereafter; when, we are through,?' on=hislips he continued: "ean not perceive
iaidA Amram, without changing his voice; why Aspasia tremables, if ;it isnot thevulgar
positin'o'mien.' "But'you cangetno betisuperstition, that the spirits of the assassin-'
igroservart; you want no better. Forgold ated return to torment theirnmurderers, that
thef rmustdo almost-everything."'      makes ;her tremble? Or should 'Aspasia
4 'Iyou4do'lhot(lave this room,' she ried, with her serpentile prudence tremblebefore;
pasidnately,1"'Iwill call my servants."  the omnipresent and omniscient Judgewho
"They will not come," said Amram, looks into the cup of poison, and reaches, in
"Iphid them well."                     to the luxuriant and opulent temple of Ye.
" I will strike this drum and summon the nus ? Ah, Aspasia, well versed in Greek
guardians' of the temple to my aid,'- she philosophy, an admirer of Ejicur9 and a
said,"4lfyou leavenot this house instantlyj." devotee of Venus can notbe troubled,'withr
" Never mind, you need not trouble your- such vulgar' notions.  Still she trembles
dalfyon "my account" Amram replied, fri- and looks, like despair personified.' lhy
gidly. " You shall not heap also myi}lood' does Aspasia tremble?"
uponyour guilty head. But if you 'stirone  "What will you have,.terrible man?"
inch; this poisoned dagger 'will dispatch your sle cried, desperately  "why did you come,
quickly and: certainly to your judge.I am horrid messenger of Nemesis,?"
thekmastei of=the house -at present," said  I aid not cone to ask 'a 'particular favor
Aikrm, doolly, on showing the 'poisoned of you or court your kind'affections," said
dagg    in o/the='terrified-woman who, over=' Amram, sneeringly.  " In the fii'stplac 1
comenwith fear trembled violently.    came to refresh your memory as to: phi g
Abe along pause she asked,. "What does past. havingg effected my purpose I w auld
Amrd    dish of me?"               ' 4 lik to know whiy you tremlne so yien tly?
nd 6thiny/of partionlar importance," Am. wpy you look so~ sad and meianchgl? -
reni *elied,e with adnialieiatis smile on his Cher nu, ha4dy fich, mighty Aspasfiai In
lipa #HEvhut learied thatyou are so happy; life' your prddance and 'your  ioion
sledsoadwllfand'drealnsoe pleasantlyin theta charms must protect you against hiid triid
o~b#~dt~.Apollonius; I came to; refresh 'ini death~ so yotor phiilosophy taelto/there
~~4ti-that flifeb ytthat isa nolknewledge u&amp; ocTeeetido,Minf#4g
~ltefomerwhoin yourhusiband os his menit. a4Whythen does Mpasintrbdlwea

THE MACCAB ES
her;own recollections? why:shudder at her ged bird under the A.ibgence ofrheveo
oa .degds   Xt is a lesson I just now study; irous looksof the basilisk-,will be ta4 g
whether Epicure or Moses was:right. Do time.   t. least he:will prefer your ealth
kindly assist my feeble eapacitv for reflec- and charmsto death, a pecially jf; youd1ffer
tion tell me why you tremble?           him an opportunity to'dispose= of Apol.
ilyou leave me and return no more, nius the arch eneny of his people, Wha
if I tell' you that I tremble. before ,nmy own us&amp; have you any longer for the grey Apol-
consciousness of guilt that crushes me to loniusi if the beautiful Jonathas  enJiras'es
the ground ?" she cried, vehemently. "Will your chaste body?=Tl hus you serte your
you leave me, ifI confess that-the shadow country and yourself At once, Itis=' ne
of my deceased husband haunts me day:and schene,a prudent design, worthy of thephip
night'. n4 points to heaven where his avent losophical' niad of Aspasia. ButhiLmust
ger lives? Wilyou'go and lets :wretchedwo- advise your ladyship, not to, carrythis
man alone with her grief, her despair, if I scheme into effect:or else I shall have the
inform you that invain I threw myselfin- honor to repeat myvisits, refresh your re-
to the whirlpool of pleasure to forget 'ri collections, aid read before Apollonius the
guilt; it.is always before ne as the space in chapter of Sisra and Joel, or 4hatt:f bolo-
which   walk and the air I breathe? Will fernes and Judith.'Irlikesto hear good
you go and torn ent no longer a- wretched story. gPlease yoafladyship .   diare
w   'an?"                               gard my huible advice:"
"Thatdepends altogether on circum-    "T'hese are inventions of a morbid im
stances,  meanwhile I thank you for the in- agitation," saidc4iasia,. "whih Apollo
formationi," Amrai replied, coolly, still eye- niuswill not believe.'
ing h'e looselyy, for it appeared to him as if  mram  pa
she had a desire to snatch' hispoisoned daptingto hear oe, momsetaidgeiy mer
ger'.  MIay' be so, bi the evidence iises, " Aspasia is very prudent, ,but this ti o_ be
Fay be you tremble for thispoigoned dag. aswer was foolish. Itdononstysiete t
ger. B3ttfuture events yvki develop it, and she feas only one hg l      iht
"   ve ..  a    she~eax~e; nly~onething,4polonius, might 1 In a~ecpstegap fftyu  w
no man. Capes the graspof fate, your'own be reached and told the fine story 1 Mlo-
Epicure teaches. But since you are to day (erneraind Judith, beforeher seriantsfight
so exceedingly kind aidobliguig, I will give reachithe heart of Amram; Aspssia's dag.
you some good -advice. "I have learned .you gers, heir poison and the laws wilpreyent
are, soto say, in love with Jonathan ben Ma mefrom repeating my visits. Thi s'a1
tathi, afne young man, ideed,anAp eth
loius. grows old and queer. Iphegme res- proer care . t h polloiu learnt=isl e
cued him from  your iron grasp. You ac story of Holofernes and t udith Re'os
used him of=treason and desecration of th earn itin time" If however,, yo yoatur
temple. You accused' her 'of having res- br  I        hegine Jonathan o nself you
cueid hii frm the hands of -i stice. He child, your nly chid  nust iie
being outof the reachof AdpPldnius:death;  NMad, ravigl-i md  ie'  ran towsr4-Am
aQprdin to the laws of Syiria, is herpun- rnd and  ciied, 7' Myc R hld, gxv .eie  y
xs imentt gte an ingenious and original diild!' "Ama  usd  her'ack' she;'ell
n e4d'to administer poison with inpnnity 'pon. fer knees and{impld in accets f
to adreaded rival. 'You have improvedon  id gony   Torme tnme a    ighofeteier-
thegeat artof foul assassination. 1 ormerly ity,Adegtroy me in.thy;,ere geft
you fad.to'otyourself, now the laws must ple me in the burning lava of a r ging  of
do   fgrMyou,-'and you ate loyal. This is ' naodrink my blood ih ty hotwth but
great improvement. E know 'your'prudent give ,me my child, tell ni rhera mye hild
designyhavng'overheard your kind' censer- isi :
station with Iphegine.' Newe you intend to ' Thius the tigress raeken depeived of
entice Jinathanitiao your net y the agency har sl, 'after khe'atateeq p
of ,lik br~e #idhis honor, the Ipzeghnie ~ ~ blood zakindoaet ge/f
must l11   gdelhjir bo6 aaseedncien s4idiflyd                  wh$e


°na r stitutedSher body, aned'shenes  'My die lady, name;bin, describe hi
danew   d    Sataid deslgs, 'deserves ndt the villain, and lie shall not escape us, "ao
th8 eshstresof a mother, ca' inot been of the Fguardians said
tatieted with God's image; an innbdeentchild.  thou, my faithful Aleibiades," she ered,
Ihrein theiduist, withahelp in' 'thy boson; " thou knowest Aiam, the-son ofs theyeat-
DWIfthe rushingg weight of thy iifimy." thy Heron ofi$ri'a.. He has' outraged
Aspasial struggled 6nr the floor moan the temple of the great goddess. Hastn af-
edz=t d        gfoa"ed'ith" madmiess  Amfam tsr him. Give no rest to thy;feet anidno re-=
sgood there for a niosmeht dumb nknd pain pose-to thy eyelids. 'Bring him to ne1mving
st ickei:' " Wheneveisyou shallhaveimade omf dead. I will praY for th et6 the great
ito nemBn't before'God and man foryour sins, goddess, a  talent of gold shalt thou have
youllall1ave.your child. Now 'hear me, from my hands, the fairesof priestesses
Aspa"siayour servart:s ise: gone dnothirig shalt be .thins as long as thou 'pieeasst, if
except 'theL divine commandment:prevents thou bringest Amram dead or alive."
me from slaying youthisevery moment.-=      I willbring him;' the math promised,
Yon'ushall live, either to 'expiate your'ins and went off with his:guard.
oe always tormented by 'the consciou- ''ie shall not, none shall escape this
hssof yodrbloody guilt. If the'lea tharmi powerful arr," shecried. "alf of man-
is'd   eto Iphegine or 'Jonathan, remember kindmay be'sacrificed, but I muist have Jona-
this, Aspasia, I shallkeep mg word, Apollo, than, I must have my child, and I will have
miis slia ll beiinformed .of'Aour Satanic de- themn.'She would-have rage:' on much
signs' The moment Iphegine or Jonathan longer, had iot 1Alymos entered th temple
dies your child must die.'- Remember'Aspa  to worship'the great goddess and listen to
alainiy last word to my friends to whose her 'oracles "commiunicated through, her
daeyourchildis entrusted, was if X die' in priestess. ,I a few moments Aspasia, dres-
Jeruslernt'set As M sia's child die arnd'send sed in the dazzling white robe with a dia-
itsbody to its mother. And die it *ill, if niondgirdle around her waist and a:-wreath
hand'be' la d on me, Iphegine or Jonathan." of flowers in her' lack tresses  appeared at
Amaram disappeared. Aspasia raged with the altar to acceptthe sacrifice of ,Ale os'
boundless-fut'y,' but none appeared to hear to the great goddess of love  Aloymos de-
hedfor non  cane' to 'her assistance, not lived the'whitepigeon' to the priestess. and
withstanding her, repeated :and wild suma bowed reverentlyy to the statue of Venus,-
nins. 'Al my servants gone,' shd cried, Re nirkably calm'and solemn 'she pagd
Mdhisgd, enticed them to leave me.'  Yet thrpuih the ceremonies, 'then she gra ped
hetshalnot seape. Now I know whete 't6 the laurel scepter  swung it seven; tines
find  y child. 'H  must be brought back o0 a'ouind her head, and mounted thestes of
killed' befo -ehe reaohbes'Apollonius This the altar. Standing. under the rich canopy
shall beny last -in 'Iwill ,sacrifice An'alifa facing Alcymos, she asked him: "What is
Appl"'nius and  ge   for Jonathan andthy request, mortal mnan, of the greatod
my'child. Then   will be 'a virtaops asany ded e
ift'ind  otherr' j  pro   Saua~itamr   " Pray to the great goddess, divine
thou-smil '      a   eii"  She rifintc ysaid Alcymos  'that she send forthher
the secret   tMent'of 'the templead bet Graaes n   iy behalf, to move the heaA of
th'l ta  d  aboropne"i}     ethex fair naden 'I love so-afeconat y  s
the'tlarm 'dn i~' The' floor opened and- the  .  -j                      ,
guardians of the temple eaine up arpnied to hopelessly. 0 Apray to the 'great =gcd
*theirteeth. 1. 't:   :t'.'       r   that she breathe love into tie "heart of her
Dedecrate'd,' dishonored, disgraced has who captivated mniy heart'to crusl 1  the
been the temple of ethe'agreat goddess, by a the wiht of iy pai."aetst te
vuisl   pr "Gardian  o'the anctuary,   enus a'nd m rmured. unintelligible weds
bev oik1 b ~rmdet pursue- him, e  rret withifrantic geetures.' Thnaanhfie
Mm dxtd ,biing hkin'beforehis judge, that .A#chos aind ,said' . be  zgsee

Alcyns said, once,When Aspasia iterupt t thatourservant-O, it is all right  But
edinr i  " Enough, the goddess has 1 beard Apollonias should learn that anothog94r
thy jayer  nd bids me to tell thee,Jost.  resides in thistenple?"
t      sha  he1 nadesecrated her tenple,  "Then he must coutennithe wordsof te
aid Ipbegines'escued him from her altar-  maliciqus slander," she said. "He kno
If Jonathan, returns to this altar, Iphegine Aspasia:"
shalllove thee .afectionately and-,be thine,:  " So do T " saidhe., "Still w ould ,ad.
in the temple ofgreat IHEymen." She descend- vise you to treat iphegine right, or, else
ed and grasping the handofAloymos she.led would haveto say something to Apollonhits.!
him :injothe adjoininrooinhwbei-eshegom-  "4Ah, the worm threatens, the. camnl!'':
municated to him her's~chemes to ring Jona, she cried, ini an Qfleadedtone  "'Go, young
than badek} to the, ltar of the goddess, if man and learn toknow your own littleness.
Iphegiiecould'be persuaded toWrite to-him, Goand remember Iphegine diesif Jonathan
how  h r flfe  was  in eopaid 'on  his a count   is  not  placed  before  thick  altar.  W e  are
"Not neessaryd ~y itdy,~said leyings, done."
" like,' Iphegine Ican write, rnd mj letters Aleymos could obtain no further hearings,
look xeactlyi e;1is. .I will write the jet- andleft her. She swore ia-her anger o
ter andtarke care that he receive iA if neces every manor woman whopposed pr Wish-
r s "      _    '  '          Jo  athyan," "d -A';
sary.  Bit, going out'tQ-Iorrow with es.  onathan'ard hechild were then
. Apolloni e to meet and defeat the enenies, twobeings op earth shetwished to-resce--t
it will be easy fortme to capture or kill the TeBlife or death of the rest was a matter of
Asnionean "--                        -indifference to her; She .waited imp tnt4
.'Not dead," she suddenlyinterrupted,; ly for the return of th' guardians of te
"living, he mustbe placed before the altar :teiple with Amram, andeji   fan-'' J th
of the goddess, to exjiate his siiis with his presumed delight she would fee in siencing
bloo  Besides' this, i would not release the last witness of herscrinie  after the tor-
Iphegiae {from the hands of the ,stdi gent ture should have extorted from him' these
hws, if the. offender be killed in battle-- cret abode of ber child.
Captuelhiiorsend'him the'letter."
"Do 4itt h peak yof°laws;nhiy lady," Alcy..     CHAPTER      XIL
"os said,  I"pray you, do flot deceive your           rs u   ToT
self;, Apollonius is the law, and.we, his so Apollonius having coiefr-om6S6iridas
diery, mutexetute it. If I slay theAsmn the guest of the hghpriest,"till he metwith
niean,the w will troad~that 1liegine 'shall n6'suecess 'in bebaltf if his daughter .h
be my reward   Iknow thie law well. Let laws of Syriaare supreme; ery other
Jonathan berlin, and Apollonius wil.'re:' person or thing is econdary wasithepii'
fuse me no favor. Therefore, I will: wjite ple of Apollonius, adleb swore if iphegine
and, dispatch the letter as- youdesire; but was his  Own  child she wbuld ' ecevye ,
ny 'first rnd That aim is td slay him= who'is same 'treatment fromhis bands. Iathe
my rival,'him who. like: ' thief disgraded laws of 'Syria condemnedheht' to die besaid
me in thotad;of night:',1wall sl y him.w.  he,would }be',the esenutioner' of his' om
But. n'ordertodblsoyoui will, the' letter child: Controlled as be was 'by Aspa i
shall .e 'sent to  his iina a'maimnerthat he and arthorough'hatred against' theIle brew
shall motttiobtfor amoneit,. it comes di people, little 60e ld' be'exaeeted Hf hirp
rectly fyonIpegiene:                 StillMenelaus hoped to ,suceedwh n the
.".r-u shall iot slay hikI sr  A sia ne5 of'the sucessite defeats reabtiedhim&amp;
rociferated;. "if you do Iphegini isiootti. and turnedlhin a mad dedgt idtey
Suchld  the ling afandene~r shril1pr. ferocious anad insatiable besis t~at 'fi4 t
vent~ie ro aryii' n t to the ie lesatisfy Mi distru t paiomis RThe'*as
'"~ e~ n9 even Apolioninu?$1mht sonadshda ioan patrp  t in s14 t
strange I' sW lymon  "It eppiirs, nilmteag4tUafa*the mtinfulgel


- Ti     'I R54,  -F
eeuences fo rthe life of his daughter' the, dust and flatter with smooth tongue
aSdOi&amp;tended to speak agaiato Apolloniu0s- long' as they mst; but their venom comes
when tho latter, like a mamang;with the forth when the, oppressive' hadi'.ith-
sr4',iin his; hand,every ,hair of his head drawn."I Having 'cursed again  anon
standing  n end, his :eyes oling wildly inand'after runing-a few minutes about the
their sqdkets and darting forth looks of wild roomr in sheer madness, he turned -a.i.l  .
flr   aring lik eamenrage4tiger, Hither, the two defeated oilers "Where is the n-
bringthea hither i:'reeled int-the official emy now?
apartment of thehigbpriest. Like the voie  "Concentrated in; the wilderness of Ju
of nadiess itechoedthroughout the pl dah,",aid Pharches,  a high spimts and
Ssad the 'heavy walls apeared to trem. great power."
ble. More like a fury tha namii herafi up   .  Ah, I believe Philarches weeps and
abd'doWk the'rooin, and moaningwil    d trembles;"' Apollnius scorned;  he speaks
inrtiulate sounds, while leoght the re- of the hgh spirits andgreat .power
sistless air, he received his two subordinate 'handfulof rebels- Iwill teach them very
ofles 'iirhes" aivd h  isthenes, ho .soon te town weakness and cowardie'.-
broight hinthetidings of their defeat.-- At the headof my army, wilgnarch against
Prost'sted on hoir feaes they waited for the  and erushtem at ope ad f    lrver.-
his:order. 'Aftei his rage s ided so far Nine of them;bshall ,e cale., Death or  a-
that he could artiulte he' ered: "The very shall be the lot. 61  the.rebellious cows
tha hecold  rte l   .. e . -i httch,  e  .he:aht  W is''f ther's' 'womb ,and
valorous warriors of Syria, thderighty cails- rd-  Te child im it te
ions of- a glorionlS k.ir  defeated by a' the boasting hero shall learn to tremble.-
ode of    bels. Curse on allwho brugt Nee shall'escape, ;yhand shall destroy
ties share en thp arms of 'Syria. Curse          d     o   1   ah     iri'it
a~~~~~d~M 'et'talwodsrcdhesad   Mylord, , f loyal P Ihilarches is', permt
adsdeth toall,whoh sgrCedthefsd-to:spndk'he ,said, "if his voice ibe-
arfd ofking Antiochus.                af    p u   lfius    ngi   ottoeble
a    rcounordP        iar'      ,half 'of oumr forjous ,kng is not ;too 1ebe
" My graciouslord,     larches plead; to reach your ear,, let me advise, nay en-
"It is not our fault. Our men fought heidl- treat you not to attack thec eneniy before you
ically. All the, corps 'in our rear 'and flanks have received considerable reimforceinent"
gave way to the d 1ereut bands of rebels 'Weep' on, cowardly woman!      Apollo-
yho thenbroug t usinto the midst of for ninS cried, furiously;"to excuse yourigno-
df'erebit bdies ogfhe .enemy   , Q  menimous featt, reinforcement, 'toi defeat
egyld no ppgiby',stand the terrible cud'-eid of rebels? No, I need. 'ot;albof my
rntstorming against them from all msdes: aen to rout aid kill the  to the last, a
i t ,  llkof them go to Pluto and his j  how manyyriarloldiers enece sry W
ferual dapgters'" Apollonius tc rsed, "who kill a few thou  nd rebellious cowards:--
tae' dsgaced the ars of Syria!. The cowards:without an"m?',
saldards of Syria in the hands of naked,  "My  loagain:Imost solemnly assure
undisciplined rebel,s , ~ ,serpents and, you, yu are mstaken in the; character o
agergthre: regust have beentreachery, the enemy,?; Philavchesei' nstrated  "A
vile, miserable ,treachery iour own host"','hostof 'semn argbarous fanatis, half, .a
"    y dnor  ytinour camp," s Gi Calli sn;porly rmed, ,cnning,'fierce and fur;
tyeg (for       imen; fought well to the ous saee 'ihe pneny concentrated-inthe
lau$P60%er        mwgnot  en11 how they-suceeeded' to desert where they know every spot ,ard, we,
euttheir way through the corps in our rear age strangers, ,This is the true 'picture
dant h b     i, !ocamp there was rio t e enery.
tgegery pglrgeptibJe              "    ,"     eys4ltrmble bef@~ore     f lius "
p~I~ onm  y fte 'defeated corps he griigd, "and neyiesha!1etdicie   r
i A        p   eia spiW      bout y say  gg mentatly  ueet the 'eem era~u
t    gip  r*le    4 es99ors409et8d hip- Yo     hl ces      h   pto'h

PLE ~

Philarches governs Jerusale  'during" my;
abseiee  The more youtkillof'th eseebe S
the faster ;you erse your shame frommii
me nory. Whoever is suspectedof dis6gal:
ty, he must die withoutmercy. Itis better
one thousand die thanone- guilty herd es-
cape arnd crak rebellion agaistathe:kin.
Whoever _'speaks ,of the :God, the religion,
laws, rights; customs or languageff Israel,
be it main orwoman, the .hoary head or the
suckling, 'he mustfdie, and his carcass shall
be thrown beforethe-stubborn and ebehllions
people that' they 'learn obedieree: Terror,:
and dismay shall reign, none shall dare'
speak, think or feel' contrary to, the will of
our king. I will count your' merits by the
heads of the uen you have slain for your
king. Believe none, trust in nonesuspect
every one whatever his pretensions may be.
This is a nation-of 'dogs and serpents; it
must be exterminated.
"Such,.however,,are not"the orders and
instructions by our, illustrious king," Mene.
lats objected. "Yfogi dare not rage -against'
h    yis loal subjects."
"Nevter. mind what the priest. says,'
Apoion is continued to rage,  letahim
r  sacries and incense to the 'gods and
not- meddle 'in our 'business:Do him no
harni he is ourKing's favorite priest. The
orders, are' unconditional submission or t
death.' There'is no other alternative."
"My]ord, litle'do I cre for th6 rolielli-
ous Hebrews," said Philargches, "yetjmust h
beseechyoutdefer'this. operation tilr e- 'h
enforcemnt' ar ives.' T"'iou Junderrae 'he
strength' and'fury'of rthete'emt
"p'ollonis: ai'never defeated,"  e d
eried, Iroudly  "  will teach them  this s'
triith."'
eAlcmos introduced Clio, thespy we have n
seen with etathis, tthe oejf Apollo al
nius whoiwiliout speaking toCewhpknelt t
before him, said to'lymos,  Tour request oQ
is granted,-you go witb me.' The head of ti
Jonathan the Asmonean is the condition.- p
You under-standme'? Iproniise you another th
high reward for every Asmopean Jiead. fo
~nog     ed poggndly and foz~ed
to co."W     t has tie pytreport" a'
~atIi the~po'         'e~   "ws     thi

"Matathia died auddenIly, they haveno
leader and despir e- edoi them" ead
spy.
" This is the proper moment,' Apollonius
vociferated  "Aleyinos, coney myorders
to ny captains. Forthwitly etery iota there-
of must be carried out. The-spy goes with
me. dallisthenesggoes to maria to his
post. Pilarches 'remains in J tusalen. -
When. Return youeshall. see thatyou are
cowardss. The' two priestesses. of Venus,
Aspasia and Jphegine, must ebecoy
watched. One has. betrayed us arndle other
appearsrto intend it.. Unebnditiona su$-
mission or death is the quintessence -of my
orders."q                 e
Apollonius with his trainleft the apart-
ment, only Menelausrma,,iig.   vercpne
with grief, and mortifi anon, he   cyined
id Iabjnremy Godand apQstatiszemyeo-
pie to be an autonat6n, withouthep ver
to protect my friends; my own -hil against
the rage of a, bloodydespot?  fold .n,
madman, I have a renedfr, thisevil' I
am the'favorite priest of Antiochus, nd
sh1a teach thee to.tremble before an'o tet-
ge presto "  Highly agitate4 .-6 h e  4e
he room in rapid seriess uldeci4e wbat
course to adopt. O(  a sudde , he tried :
"'My child,,mybelove l child nst Ie ntat-
empt to rescue Iphegine. fom the satanic
rasp of Aspasin?"  Heunrolled thepar h-
ment, grasped the pen, butit fell from his
Bands. "If he-is' victorious I am los",
e vociferated, "if I'w'te one W'ord against
IM .--" 'Why am It Ievak4rthan marcild
rho threw.off the 'sacerdotal robeand gir
le; why can not 'folo her example" he
clilogiized; "and--and bethe pIyb  of
ay enemies, the laughingstock ofg niy oppo-
ents, the poor, vontemptible Menelans who
bjured'his God and apostatizedhi people,
cpine awayhis lastdays.in, remorsetand
biurity?. No''" be cried, violently,. not
uis victory to my eneaesi Iust be h-
iest, the  mighty favorite of Aiochus,
me lord of th is country, i must fir w ait
r   ihe kesultof tsia eaippgign"
Ph larches  r       turned to te -g.r
nd ~dghu n an a         thdihr~t
e frends of the king;therefoee cam~ to


"Philardhes'Is welcome to me, said the
sagthriest;  "butiwhat 'can  I 'do againt'.the
kin'es governor?""
'""The   hatghty   aa 'underrated  the
etfength of the' enemy, said Philarsels;
aci d thdught to'ncutoff the di1ferent baids
H6f  rhels front their nainFbody by a'hahdfil
of men, 'and thus ,exyosedtths' king's arniy
to 'peril'and ignominious defeat. 'This' the
king' should know. Nouw, after' theetemy
has gained in courageositions andmuim-
berg, after nearly one "hf' of our arnif is
diseomfitted, he expose therest, without a
reasonable hope of stxccess, to a fierce ie
iky, justto satiny his'ambiion. Also this
the king should know,"-     .   .
iWhy doyou not''infor  him thereof?"
the highpriest'asked,
tiB eoais he would inspect my words as
being 'intendedionly"to exiuse, inydefeat,"
said 'Philarehes,  and 'so I would only ex-
asie 'myself to his anger, You, my divine
lord, onbeing char ed with the dutyto re-
tain this'province far the king yomiay,
nay, youidst cmplain of this blunderof
haughty iman  whfo defies your rank aid
dignity andshurls insult at the king's most
loyal friends"'
"Arid if Apollonius returns 'victorious
froni the desert?" Menelaus asked.,
"Thenhe will accuse you before the king
of havirg'been auxiliary in' the escape of
Jose ben Joeser throiigh your daughter;",
said he to the astonished highpriest.-f
" Then Alcymos who is promised Yotir of-
fice'willitestify against=you before the kin.
. o'haughty}Apollonies will justify his con"
duct"before' tire king;, so he' will' sacrifice
'Mnelaus to 'maintain himself. ''Menelatis
do-operated with the rebels through his
daughte# a id Jonathan, this accounts for
the'unexpeoteddefeat: 'Menelaus the king 's
favorite being omit of his'way andApolloni-
us isd oid  f this fine land. This'is the
sclhidi  'Considerwewhatouinust do."
Iti'not,itd annot'lbe true," 'said tle
bghpriest'he can nt ydt such #i liend, ~
"Why not? I dtn'roe it, thaft thiis is
hs vbittbM" project,N'i4d Philakrees;
becaisine h  ishest atai 'two objece -
hd *f~    nd his ustifiationi"
'~' ~w~'w~l yo'pio~  i?'  enelaus
"1er     s  e   i4n    "idIhlre'

d'rawiiig foi'th a roll of parehment frong his
clak:"    er i his letter to the king. I
am charged    th'the ,duty of forwarding it
instantly to Antitioch  Iwill entrustit to the
care of a very slbW' messenger,send dour
letter by-a quick one."
'Menelaus-read the' letter: He knew the
hand and seat There could be no deep-
tion., The plot.was precisely as Philarches
had described it. Pale with surprise: and
amazement h held the letter several min-
utes in his 'hands staring at Rhilarohes.-'--
Retui'ning the letter 'he said, deteriiinedly,
"it shall,do' my duty. Thanking you for
this inestimable service Ilassure you I shall
do niy duty"
'"Forget. 'not, my divine lord, that I am
your friend," said Philarches,' on bowing to
retire.
" I shall never forget to be yours, my
lord," )Menelaus replied, on returning the
parting compliments-
"Is itpossible that men can be so fiendish
and false'as' this Alcymos. and, this Apollo-
nius?" he cried; vehemently, when Philar-
che8'was gone.  "Did they "not, a thousand
times, assure me of their sincerest frieid-
shipstill they havehe treachery intheir
black hearts?" a,the'"haughy, overbeaiing
cow ds and liars, the sneaking, venomous
serpents, Iwill crush them. I will expose
theig to the anger of the king."  Long the
hghpriestsat withthe pen in his hand, yet
he did not write.  lewas .lostin a train of
thoughts and s hermes from whienh he io-
lentiy roused  imsel f crying, veh p ently,
"Give me a friend, a true friendAlinighty
Ruler of my destiny1"  Then he shuddered
at his own words. havee abjurd" Hipn,
and apostatized His people, ,ie-can not hear
me," he cried  'Power, hmoe pokerthan
any o my felloewiien; Imustha ve:power;
fr  thin   else is l e.'' ie dipped 'his
pen in tie ink and Wte'fast.
"C HA ~   E       III'.
AN UNEXPECTED       MEET rI G .
1tatathiawas hiried in hi&amp; family sepu her
Na~Iodai. in       g       elis~soiarJet hs ill,
assumed t46e einNt conduqN h, revolution.
Mohthe Ni~ii would not INr Nudh lMac-
cabee. But her dnightie~beco    lowd
donathan who appenrsad 1et t
he~ state of mlz d.kag Jnttkhad

)iishead uarters commanding'a corps which brotheruder ghe assumed mask ofa a
formed the left'4ing:of the main arfny.;-- shepherd,'captiyate~dmy h bat.;  Izwas
Iere he foundnm ny a leisure hourt'think ha y.matbwhenth atriotsrose tlft
of Iphegine's h }ocricy, a faithlessnes, as for'God idIsdae lie 'efdsed to ' jinl
Alcjmosj' iade him  believe. He was too because heyswoe-apacMdoath       yo)i
kind and. unsuspectirig naman to believe Al sfatheonevereto-fgi agairt the ting's han
cymos could have belied him,' especially as pion s  l g'enti ntaway to return ioore,
he knew not that Alkymos wns aware of his and'I ai miserable. 'aniefebe, oolih
affections for Iphegine.  ike fallen angel womar that 7ecan notforgethinA"
she appeared to him in the hours of silent  "Willhe glghtintherarilis ofthe Syrians
reveries.r With a pale, suffering conztenance aga intus?-Jonathan asked.
and the tear of' reentance in her largs black  Neer " he exclaimed  " He willnot
eye&amp; she knelt beforedhm in hi draisnd gobeyond the duties which, hisfather!s':l1
prayed forgiveness and  'erey, stretched iposson hn. Hieiheart' with thepa-
out her' arms to entwine 'hiin andnestle
fondly 'to his breast; and when he gentl~y  " w hexshotild my beloved saster nt
pushed her'aside6a shriek of despair escaped  poieet h    ga     d be aite4wiph
her liys'which:m ore than onee rousedhin  ed  of her At   '     ak k
from  his sleep. Amid the clash of, rm    ; B     zethe daughter f      in ean
and the warbling of trumpet  he heard the be1thewifof  hero only  sh ep   iwd
scornful sound: "Iphegin  fell:.  In the in a   , ephati tone4  J can not  peet
t                   :.. ~~the::man ,who :was inactive when Igae ehe-
smile of joy he saw but scoian thisown thea,
pain, aod the tea r of inisery o011 eced d  stggled forlikerty and indepen4nce
hilown affiltioni fresh to his Iemory  He                                d.nath_ clasped hein hispriangab -
was miserable 'in the midst, of friends, in clanged, ;Howappy amItlat the   ygh-
the shots of joy he heard doy the echo of 'er of M  ;atithia s my sister!-Iflisfrue
his'sadness. He iourned over the efallof that the'alictionof ,others san a gte to
Iphegine,hus the fall of Zion    suited our own tlen hear howhappy honarwith
shapeainl embodiment in his.imagination, thine affrlionif crnpadwith nile.-
His grief inci'eased bis power of obei-; Like thee, every figer of yheat ovewand
ing the Mlietion of others. Therefore the- an inomitable affe ctrp goyepig my sou:-
nelencholy features' in the coi' nance of Bat thou mayest love the moyof bty be-
' issistei- could uiot'escapeis ke, looks.- lovgd friend, mayest nonversemwith hi slyde
Seg. e happor             oun ins, Why mnhe sAlent uoQnentof eve ries ordrers.
sserious aiid sad?       as aquestion Tiou mayest remember hiraosla  nglend
"which he asked  imself.. '  deepiffiptiori generous youth, and idiMp imessi  h,
must have nestleeine oul, hq boght  ecolleeton f hisetderness,      ougay-
One day when ,she sat on his s'   he re. ethope that he miget chagg    risd
uested her tospeakto ease he iieart on and' attempt;tobe thero worhy gtby
gisiadiipdrasart. ldt' -hear how infipntlygg*e
l issyrnpatuizipig breast.merle                   a-4nstuetehqw             hn
She'heitated"for a momentjen       hel  e aluIer ustculre t4eetigughan
asped  onvulsively her bother's          f   whand,is  fr Qb
and 'whispfed, "I suffer intase grief     cause suhs psit'woni  : I  gstear her
brother."                               image ot of'my bleedipg heart heause
Sspeah        sweet  eb ,c"the im.. she deceived !mpe    ief uy, protited
pia          ,,   r yi me assugg      or herself while she feigned, love to. me ,with
alevte the pain of      eart. I n sg . loghs sot 'innocent ad dwodt: most(atec-
pathizewith thee better thah' thy owtirmoth- tionte~  .iiusk dospeden~ 21 kegn
e  Speakim   bhaldved'siser; wordi g   4klymust rememlbewher as      4jggie4
suage afflipibn"' ' Wordab; her I honoredh gmigh
Ii  ildigh, yes indeedit is fplish of Nsag angph of parity~ Tri ngie for
ee dfea "' that mourggge4s Jgggt~aui elgipydbe in 4n
ot~r~  he wpge rfight f     seonstA' arsin t9' b   ispaebrogiedig
".  ou~  right and fair as thou art, my  Rebeeca embraced and fondly nated her


TE,, EF TlT OF
;x t  rs,.hreast.  " 1 , wl1complainp go hands Amiramnstod awhile, tlen heexclaim-
9re,.y bro    1ehe saig. 1at ed             yrany! tis is. female.tyranny, she
p Ri o    mit t thy:foritydethy manlye rnevr did love me '
f    aion,;wortb uand: bgconing thy ss-  Pride and patriotism it is," said Jona-
49  l ome,   d q rest Jqgath )n, let us ,e- tian; "for she loves you, indeed. When
lot apiness.       pu see your friends, ,ell them o r daughters
"Atrace    said     dh a spdi  entenghasti and sisters willingly sacrifice the icrove and
rcefe rom the egeiny's cap.    happiness to- therpatriotism  Tell them
May enter" was the ,reply. rA;young that we are invcible -" But what is
soldier entered{ the bandage'wAs removed your ,message ?".'
and before them atood -AMRAAm..Amiamc omposed himself, he was again
T           'fke tiVoinarble statues, like marble pale, :the bslrewd and witty Amian. " Thefcm-
Silert     etio  esayAarum and t': ebeca. azder of he corps 'opposite''yo  selected
etpodstaring, amazed ; speechless before me todeceive you. ,He.re 1am to domidu-
each other; and Jonathangtrugk by te t    y  Heiin e trugte(me to say that Ireeived
edmman galzient ofbothlooked oni hen this letter ,from the hands of Iphegine, and
'th# fgiiCs4toidshniert. Sur e admid  his shrewd management I was enabled to
astonish aitre er     dnd , more -striking hand into you. The, trth isTthat.I rceeived
illu  do ' tha in thiri   gip beforus.-: the letter-out pf his hpnds."
Jont ur}ws the   et to ixiter ptithe silence When Ainram mentioned ,' he-name' of
wih the4iestn        "fiat pepii=all this ?" -I hegine Jonathan bit his underlip and clasp-
%isrongnh Amarnio hissenses aid he adainadvertently thehandle of his sword.-
beged dthe    iac  Jotimtln, thtiielthus ; :What shall I do, with the letter and what
rIace                                            !'niosi   ppers  before°the+'t n,- does you commander want of me?" Jona-
iMdider oftilie difiiob '4hrie ie atternemt thann asked.
ei n     Iain to ebpenis tongueappeared to  I krno  ot  said Amran. " My duty
be  yalizedie'cold   ot tm ansib       is done on thedlivery off the letter. But I
Ithu  bt   o rosintha sgbegn to imaginethe must add my contniender if your enemy.';
pause of this amazement and he said, "Then  "And [ am  his, that s}hotanew," said
}#pak fstto igy beloved sister thatrI then 5onitha.  ",1 waitnio fayorsof an enenly.
Amayhea    r  tu essag,,               You, may .ake the letter bacl "'
, Airtain'ase titnents bursthfirft in  cur-  " e not too hasty, .my lord,' Ainrnm  au-
4ont  of{gihing words. le described 'in tioned.   The mn w ho se t me is not your
peiof:fre his fervent oge hi's in  tuous friend,  is tiue, ;nor .can he wish to.do, you
64s,/a d)thebudingipain iesufFere     afaor buthe eng the friend .oM
ikmoe heya.he ,'lastin' Modain  11 sI et 1:tusad hisjdiaughter niht intend to bene.
hig best eloqueie  toy egaidthe:love of'Re I; tkAby this'coininication  Read!Ithen
b eea  uitla+vain,-cold,trei bln  and ho den-          dl
mdtono sy 'sheeiled."'aagnite            n n received the letter, unfolded it,
'Miatlua can be t 'o"*Ifs of a  ro dly  an  ree4t)itng the hn     'f hegis bem
Hi~ddmble4hi# fevency his'oilsladtenssed        ong at the'writn befae he coulma
flv  ait      ' ad hiotly;bhut lhe t° d , ,ri"ead.  e rubbed  iis forehead  with his
1 yl  ihmat injtheyrin u      on         ia     attempting to hide his excitement,
uiemn'     i #vainle attemnbted to expla-ud after a 'hort struggle, he imd.
0he isked., "W  ly~ni"l-  ight  t           iI am in the-powr 9f Aspaia and Apol-
Snake       igde ois"Deaiis n;inevitablt,                                ease
b'yF 'brothers ? }:,t                                      ,; v      ,,b   P ~frnfi~ ec~f'as
onanof loi, ho'sensible son         imy only" deire, then beuressler
violate 'att dath sworn t6' his dyihg father" re~igthis la tof my wisIes. Fuue  1
e t ~te  ntffhitbie, " I shalfr    arot  ei  ou, can not save me. 'r-
11.                                   can nkot write more.
the ixartext d"iltfee fedd*lt'his IntllyI elaid ink~E          gi~k

TH     M"A.C C A BE    .
Aini;m. "G&amp; back tothy connimande r and inourn and *eep, but I  utloanh        foM
tell him Jorathan 'ill rescue Iphegine and eer.
fight hi opponents."          '           Jonathai'kissed tlIe' hot teams fry ,h et
' Are you so'sure that it is=helhand?" 'cheeks,  i'thdno 'words'to cr   h r
Amnram asted, " Do you knoW that she Did"e'notecho his on 'entiints,4'69
wrote it? I fear, sir, they wish'to'entice you very silent thoughts of his wo uied h1te
into the enemy's camp to destroy you.   Closer he pressed' h  to his1 WdWi~x -bth
.I' fear nothing," said'Joathan. "Do c6ild notmonsole her "One enteitrh,"
you knowwho commands on thck other side'?" yielded to "the-bvervlheiin ga r efds
"Alymos1inlord," samid Anrain, 'Al appointed loves then herase dhis Ifed'd
c ymos comands the troops sent  fqrth to the pride of a king  "There&amp;soia 4th gt
destroy you."                           greaterthan the 'asios o'e'fethedthftt
Man, it must be' a mistake; it iyan'notbe heart' heroared fo'th, '%ryi trorffr'
Aidy os " Jonathan cried a gsiduately; ol and Israel'the dominionref'rstide, 'thed
"it can not be'Alcymos the priests'     triuimpof -truth, the soveratyrefNiidt'oe,
"'erily it' is Aleyinos the'jriest," 'said are these not glorious ideas? 'Sister,'m ike and'
Airani'    h 're same Alcy nos you eptured' be thyself thedisuglbter flaatilM' W1efe
when he went forth to execute Josel bci oe- are iny-comrades? ,Let  atial °triapet
Zen                                "resonid, let meheai§ thecash of'msthe
"Aay, te  bleman, getthee'awayethou         icrythkithehlted tushesfdse
a re d    friou  teirthrough its barrow &amp;hdnhele ad.thrlit-"
mesan,"' 6o a prjed      et th       as tie picture of one nortapbehiga 'trator a
fast a' eat oathttreacherons profigate'a 'l w    nreega d,-be
.h .            ~crshed rout of thie fooilislyrhear~! tor,.fie{
I  forget not the  laws  of  warfa re .  acreihed'o n o ' the' i ai feh e date ns
I am ntthe' servant  -said Airam  are the scions of the gigai sh'eda  tau s
but Jonathan  w dultnot allow  hn an to  uttei  ' t lbe  cipple d bxr ans hink  o in  f s
anothe' word."  Away!' Get' thee away' as'forgetltt eu    "    hn     l    o
fast as possible!"- 'the enraged 4smonea' 'gret' and':to Ms ogat' re A    nto
roared tha;tke 'r eks trembled, and Ainuam r It is ati 'be edbpr'erogatveof egn'toe
wa 'bandage     '   awa.                rise above hisenat laxfeeins, ieasthee a gle
" Hersworgasa6eed oath at'Mi pah 'befoefhsoe alorft oftheis tmest;a d silence- t ne!
God and Israel to 'fightno npibe against s  dui eadth e storidt eed' oeernx
Jonathan cred; "he is' a, perured; miser duty andhonor,' wsidteeca f  t'
ble and  debased  'scoundrel,- hie is  unworthy' y stni l a weep$.'rEIove: pian * t e ''
any longer to walk the soil of israel."  ','sie,'a;ris. of: ,S Saron" .to  an die d he
Rebecca returned with a  esd  c untenanee  ina tl n o o  peom an w ark vist* e
Jonathau ferventjly -presd her to h  art yi
"Poor,,poor sister, hapless mad en!? he e.  in  ai'     e    i ex  ek of
claiie"love no longer    beservantfi" a!im gatitiio'gdaughter, r; 'butv epei a t of
'vpe ured'scoundrel.  The  daughterof M aita' oathetskedy              asi l
thiniuist unot;ldve traitorr'  '         "Of a woinan"     kti'k     h
'I complain 'nbt;" she said, ita anielan ' s           ?    ile4gagepeak
choly :tone" '" bit 'I" ut 1etov him.' 'i nvn '""so et: the truy1ets reso ni,xJay
'         ri           }           ffo fooin i  t  ethet)d 4i a tr    ble. ,'4T'u  40
coureIebau eitlistenettetarlit e6e'i6"'
its .ilve'ryt".,luniime'        -tdden'ly breaikS asund r? " lh ie t  entofA1atha 'i ag"m.? ¢
Love hurls mde 4oewridato the ityskofgdge' hit pdadtdu  tt   ht&amp;e
trgmtiin; thegg  ggapit n effet;' uti'nrthe Slagit f rmnsM *S 'irot dII FJI
mnuerloved hn. levf "mmveishal' I'ii te~a)ix "tmWe    fIi"ltt. W      jj
braetleeiiitorl Wbeafthe galdatds' def mauet ci fd     &amp;se     fMt8i
Siggaian'nd aomsall l.@eathet P lagn1' fojitt  e eion   a
to'eery hesrtanduiite  fiagal oli's''ea','is noved byher wretchedniess, andiowe T"


ted'' jonathaithought, "and I let her die riors, that the Lord had Inspired Jonathan-
because she rescued me." He could not bear as He didthe son of Saul to go into the catfp
th; iso- 'Tweptymtines heoexelaimed, ".I of'the enemy and chastise the Gentiles who
must ri cue her br dle withlher!"-but he profane the name of the Most, High3' He
couldpi conceive the rmere possibility of said to the warriors:- " The Lord of hosts-
bendittingshei0; isaypointed lovewas si- saith unto Matathia's son, Thou art my chay
lent for'abhile 'and conp shrn with sufi'er- riot and my rider. Thy life is precious in
ing Iphegh$te hadJthegnastery over him. He m7 sight, asostly even as the life of David;
seriquelydoelt, theimpossibilityadrescue her, Ten thousand Gentilee 1 .give for.hiee, a
still M4fe $' an irresistible desire t'do so.;- myriad of the eonis of Syria and Greece.-.
TJ%  4heiking fnd :eflecting;ber had, gone Gird' thy loiiis with strength 'and. with the
rx   jfqathefrom his ,camntan'prudence sword of Joshua. Lift up thine arms against
wodld :allo. One of his wai-riore asked thine eniies,' and smite 'them as Saipson
iabi   Po we; goto dine, with th"e e  +y?"  did the . tiisinsA And;Jonathan saw the
I;ymy friend?" Jonathan, awakaii[ host of angels,,he beheld the Cherubs with
from hiareceriies,'asked,,;;:           flaming swoeds, Even the host of heaven,
'Tha fylttoonthost are right in sight," the divine champions of Israel, He follow-
saidLthemnant, pointing to  short distance. ed them into the camp of the Gentiles, and.
"J nmtbh M    hidarmbearerventured went  forth to chastise the enemies of the
to'theoedap of"the Philistines." aid the A's, Lord, If the Lord shall give you signg, a
noea ii   hysholdnot we have courage pillar-of smokerising from yonder village,
to do the same  ''                      the two huired more of you are called by
S  go. with thiee; through the gates of the Lord, tdo orth and chastise the enemy.
hell,", said-the inane .tif'teft'fhosand de- If the smoke rises there, the Lord has given
monssgetar4 theih.e    .    '      "the signal.,: Then two hundred:ier'of ival-
' Who aathe inhabitants of yonder vil or must rise and,,gird their Iin  They
lageM?  Jniasked.               '       must-go forth and do as Jnoathan did, even
"Hebrews and;Greeks, , 'said one of the he whoie the servant of theLord."7
wcrridrs, in'ost 'of :them 'Heleidss."  ThI'e Levite could not finish his -message.'
,Then etus'teaoh'them to be patriots " The warriors began to dispute wh , should
said4oniathan, '"The Syrians are fools ,and have the honor to;follow Jonathan if the sig-
Alcynioskwhn commands'yonder 'division is nal should be given. After mach, difficult'
a       Bpoor iestind  till ooer awarrior:--- they choice was madeid the Honor was:
Thieis tlieir' ating'time." Let usdrive then 'conferred en the mostdistinguished war;
from =their'aeteaming dishes. Before 'the riors.
mei~a'body of tleenemyeap reach here we   Scarcely had thediffileulty been adjusted
are   pse ssion"of the village         when a column of smoke was seen to rise
"That 'is iight;'"a levite eJaculated)  '1 .from the village. "Jonathak is in danger"
dreaiedlast night, The.Lord  illdeliver ioiinded' from every mouth. All ar'rage .
them intothe hands of 'xfew. Th'eamy 4i' ments and appointments were forgotteua
vide drbin shaUl be fuallled&amp;' ';      Every warrior rushed towardthe city gates
Thstantl flxll were desiroa 'to 'embiarkin tobhasten to the rescue of the beloved chief.
thehaz rdous adventure.  "Hor any-are It took thewhole inuence of the most pru'-
we?0 Jonathan asked. "Eiftytin ne',w5 dent among the ato detain as many in.the
the answer. "Sufficient totakethevillage;'+cityas were actually necessary. toguard itin
said Jonstha , A, .Leitereturn o: Zilag case of- Mxiattack, the, rest hastened 'through
ag4pgayjornsg Tellethemd. o hepready t6 the getes, and a long column of',excited
sypp4 ys., Onward. omradop,:amannuis warriors on quickly toward the yilage,
liars theoneniysy s~eandag d es~andYthe where theasnoke wes seen. Warlike songs,
viflge,$ e~ invitee returned ag ths rest interrupted by ,thae warbling~ofa thecdorzets
of 4le party .lQ9eM99alman thtagilt and wil4ejaeulationsg ents the air, ,od4
lagn                  ..,. a,,          the. pioua,  elodies sof the Lexitds *reed
4&amp;a tdi I4Mite iporge44thea '~r prely atn4ible. 'kLqlkdona froin hea~d

THE MACC ABEs9.
ten, old Matathia," sunburntt bearded man his center and burns;us to coal ' Judah in-
dried, "and thou wilt be pleased to see us terrupted, "all this is as probable a the
whip those hirelings of Antiochus." Anoth- possibility of John or Jonathan givingkway
erejaculated, "I must get five Syrian swords before the enety." u m     i
for my boys, they have no arms."  Again,   ,    . .  g
another screamed, "The Gentiles are drow- to my heart, brother Tudah," Said Simon.-
sy we must wake them   to run a race."- "The lion can not imagine a defeat, and
Thus singing, praying, cryingscreaming and verily-thou art a lion. But let us take for
derthe thnde    n    ' the tr     t granted, we are safe in the rear-ad flanks,
under,the tundering noise o ..the.trumpetstilto  us    di    httepa       fa
and cornets tiey reached the village, where still thou ust admit that the plan of ac-
a bloody conflict was waged in the midst of tion is highly hazai-dous. Before us there
burning houses and trees. Like the des- stands Apollonius With all his disposabi
burnig tona     d te  ike ste from forces, supported by Helenists and Sairari-
tractiv e tornado; the. war riprs stormed from
several sides into the village, and in a few taas and covered in the rear and flanks by
minutes the horrid combat spread to all strong fortresses. Behind him, down from
partsof the village.                  Celosyria there comes Seron with a strong
army. The Samaritans who now deny their
Hebrew origin will swell his ranks, anidthe
C H A PT E R   X IV.           Helenists will support him. Suppose we.
D I F F E R E N T CHARACTE RS.    succeed even in throwing Apollonius back,
"I respect thy prudence and precaution he will join ,eron, and with their united
just as 'high; brother Simon," said Judah forces they will advance and. drive us back
Macoabee, "as I honor the political wisdom into the desert, and we sacrifice in vain men
of brother Eleazer, and as Iklve and admire and treasures. If we remain in-the desert,and
the daring courage, the reckless boldness of on. the plan of our father attack, molest and
brother John and my darling Jonathan. A  defeat them in small bodies, they must come
Ilove that glowinig enthusiasm and inspiring to the desert, and there we have the advan-
fervency which, with a prophet-like spirit, stage, and might dfeat them. Then we
conceive' spontaneously the exact truth and might drive the defeated army before us
actquickly by noble impulses, so do I love through the whole'land to the Lebanon."
'thy prudence and precaution. Speak, myit "Very wise, indeed, but-too slow for me,"
dear brother,' what oblijections hast thou to said Judah." "I intend not to drive Apollo-
raise' against my fast marches and quick nius back, but overthrow him, before Seron
operations?'                         *-an reach him. Done with Apolloni's wd
"Numerous ire my apprehensions, said shall scatter the army of Seron, ,even-as the
Siiion, " and I will state them. First of all wind driver the chaff. If I' failing 'over-
we left our positions in the desert with an throwing the forces of Apollonius I succeed
enemy in the rear. The Idumeans support- ini gaining territory, men and confidence.-
ed by the nonadic tribes across the Jordan, Our-people must see us advance 'to meet the
arm against us"                        enemy in order to gain' confidence. If in--
"And brother John will teach them how deed we must-retreat back-to the desert;'we
patriots fight, if Esau's sons should dare to will arrive:there with more, many more men
attack us,"udah interrupted.         iand arms than we had when we left. But
.Our ,1ef reaches to the land of the Phil the enemy' will follow us ,with a decreased
istines  Simon continued, "where an army army. Besides this I hate to sit in the des'
miht land and"                         ert till the enemy comes and forces us to
"Be wiipt by brother Jonathan," Judah fight  I  am goingtd find aid, defea the
said             ,enemy. Now.~ our. warriors, arer inspired
" All ight if neither of our lines be bro- with victory, Inactivity is death just neom
ken through by the enemy,". eidY Simon; What otie objections hast th n, brother
"but supjo e" -              'Simon?"
"The hen bprsts and falls down upon  " Reverently do ~  a t the wsa  o
our he4,the sea dsserts its old channel our glorious father,' sad S imn~  ho
gndl giales us away, or the sun breaks from pointed Jndah Nacobee his suceso
9'


6 - Tu H'FIus T 0?
uT    'ndth  ui   Israeel'hosts. indeed; thy 'Just is our cause, strong are 'our arnis,
lo±t, ,c6urag6 'end" confidence, is' supe- nigh is our God," 'was your-father's adage;
ror to-mie. StillI'must'r iseanother ob- let it also be'yours. Now the enemy retreats
jectio. So far so good if eerything goes before you, now pursue, and the 'Lord will'
esraight as tho timnagineet and; hopest it.-  deliver them 'into your, hands."  .
Iut if one part of this jreat unit fails to  "Enough, my beloved mother!"  Simon
answer its destiny,if either John or Jona- exclaimed. "Thou art my Rim and Tiurn-
than defeated   ' thymen fail' to reach im, I submit to the voice of God revealed
A olonius in tiine, whit' then? Are we not through the sacred sanction of a mother's
tiplaced inthe midst of the enemy? Will heart. Brother'Judah, thou art the messen-
we not fail to achieve our aim'?"  '    ger of the Most High to redeem Israel, and
.Yictory;in this unequal struggle is-only I am thy servant.",
en possible, if none of us and none of our  My brother and oansellor, Judah i-
schgmes be defeated," said Iudah. " If we terrupted, "my comrade on the field of bat-
remain in, the desert, and the armies-of Idu- tie and my superior in wisdom and justice.
mp iof Apollonius and Seron ;besides;one Not in, vain did father call thee Simon the
which might landing Philistine attack us, we. just."p
are eve.le" crtan o- vitor - 'than°we are  Several reconoitering parties returned and
are.even less certain of victory thane eare reported to Judah, that they met with the
anow  e right be detedshere or here, outposts of the army-of Apollonius south of
ant yie m     sight bedefeated here or there, Bethehem. and that he himself had his
Bu~tghxe ye "must fight W6,e;united 'armies, e" a r:inEllhe.Atr aig
.here w   ht one afer another. If not all headquarters' in Bethlehem. After having
f     t       fall  I ath       ld fall examined the prisoners and received the re-
o use at,vc thea  h rataerckel drap ports of all ocers, Judah gave orders for
the. benefit of fathers victoryaid hope a  a sudden moment of the main force against
thebeneill f   '   v r o I- Bthlehem. Then he stepped before Miri-
trust, God will grant.anothervi totoIs- a, "Bss me my mother" aid he      that
rael through his',humble servant Judah.-  God  rant a victor-y to Israel through thy
Like thee, brother Sjmon, I admire the wis     his is my first attempt as comman-
dom of our gloriousvfather who instructed dein chief, I need thyblessing."
me,that Simonthe mild, just and prudent'  the lion of Judalh is .safe in the, hands
brother abouldbe my counsellor. 'Thyspre- of the young lion of Modain," saidliriam.
caution and'my' enthusiasm, thy prudence " The spirit of thy father rest upon thee, the
and m, recklessness, thy; .onsideration and               .      We.lk
ny                                 power of the Lord is thy shield,' thou wilt
courage, thy circumspection and my cou be victorious for God and Israel,  y son
fidence are an excellent match, that with God
r                            .; i  Judah   ~baa.S- bo as generous as thon art brave; as
inust lead us tviotyry" He em'braded.1-S.-
mnl eaieshllrlway.herighteous as thou art valorous, let thy con-
mnon ,and exelai , ed.  ' We shall always -be
one indeterminatioa afterr we have exchanged fidence iGod be as powerful as thy coui-
one                                 age is, and God will be with thee as he Was
antiments. )To yourown satisfaction we with  an    d f illbwth
shall go to our mother, 'she - is wise and the Judal seized the 'lido banner and holding
favorite of the Lord.: Tell her botschemes it high with his left hand and the sword in-
and, leather d'ebide."            .     his right the iron decked warrior stepped
Silent and hand in hand they walked 'to 'into the midst 6f his subordiates, where he
the tent "of the mother, and Simon stated was received by a thunderr of enthusia1tic
both plans of operation closing with the re- salutations. One moment he stood still like
.ue   _ to give her opinion which she would a god 'of war surrounded by his votaries his
b..fer. Miriani, after. some reflection, res- gigantic figure and manly bearing appeared
ponded. "The Lord isl'with my sons' and to dictate terror to his enemies and venera-
they will'useeed in 4Utleit doings,the weal tion to his' friends; then hie iwaved the ban-
of Israel will prpaperinther hands. The ner over his head and silenye eied  "To
~ord~s)ih i       a ~sof fs,'dat heart battle and, victory hot61 an~d your coutry
(food goag;  oWrfbenwalrd in be- Qgag you' to day," sd he. "e           te
kl of6d aidi Taa l iny preferenc.- midnight hour we esall' hetath  eerin

force. I know every heart beats impatient-, glorious and valotous deeds. Draw your
ly in your breasts, your soul-thirsts after swords, men-ofIer el, and tenc i te w r
battle and victory, and this night your deg the grand lesson that tyrants.must trenile
sire shall be fulfilled. God is witbthe val and their thrones are shaken to theirpry
orous on the field of battle, he will be with center, when free :men strike the .pighty
you. Down with the hirelings of a foreign blow for Got and liberty,.forGod's.suanctnMy
despot, death to the cowards, destruction t andi God's justice, If you think and, feel
the.servants of tyranny,this is the call to bat- like me for. God and Israel, draw your
tle and victory. Our country, our religion, swords and follow me'to battle and ietoryl"
our laws, our sanctuary, our ancientliberty  The demonstrations-of an enthusiasuibor-
and independence, these;are the dear objects dering almost ,n.inspirationwere spontanr-
of our'love and exertions. Onward then to ogsand powerful. The swords rushed foini
battle and victory, ,honor andyour country their sheaths, the trumpets warbled as iin
call' ".the days of Jahna, the :ries, "WithJu.dah
The last words of Judah were enthtisias* Maccabee to battle and victory " and many
tic lly repeated again and anon. When si- other 'exclamations of unbounded enthugi-
le ce wasrestored; he continued: "Till now asm were almost endless. -Then the mighty
you reaped the -fruits of the first 'viegtory columns of warriors moved fonwardteBeth-
gained under Matathia,niy heroic father.--- lehem under the inspiring songs f the  e-
Here begins the second part of thisgloiious vites. and the occasional shouts of enthit-
ginsth-secon  pasiasts.o
drama. I must lead you,-so my father so sasp.
you'commanded. I have prayed to God and  Apoo a     prtl emoe cth   in my ,-
he has heard me;.I shall lead you to victory.,
: ~pg and re-organizng tlie retreating troops
Whoever seesme fail or falter shall kill me phey an  r omnthe eeting roos
like a mad dog, and. trample this lion-banner s y  , f      th   t   h
into the mire of Syria. Whenever lib- lists considerably swe   his ranks, h  ad
erty be not my watchword and justice not' a strong force of cavalry nd alephans,and
s                          3ould be, certain of ,victory. It was ms P~-
'my guiding-star, let me be thrown before the :non bepregam ofwardto 't ws.rtwi-
lions of the Lebanon,'or before the lowesteIt
of our evtinries to drink' my blood and gnaw his well-orga'zed forces and crush t  re-
the flesh fromn'my 'living body. God is my bellion at once. Clio,, the spy, brought hijn
witness, and the spirit of Matathia shall rofrom he enemy'a camp upo w
hear it, Israel's freedom, Jacob's sanctuary,
my p    ' gh                       . numerous other spies, but Cio was the' most
my peoples rights' and' independence are -      .   .-
the only objects of my exetions; as soon as reliable in his estimation. 'This evening
soonyaClisio feasted 'with the Syrian commander,
these are g   hed, I am your comrade, your and-eportedto him Sa necommande
moean rpoye ohi             all he. kgnew.  The
fellow Israelite and no                              'ere,"rebels,"said 'Clio, 'is
The enthusiam was so great that Judah commanded by Judah Maceabee, a ian
succeeded only after a good while to obtain without 'the least -knowledge. of tactics ad
a hearing. Then he said:  If you all think without experience. fiepursues the king's
and feel as I do for our country and our rights, soldiers only to deceive you, while in fact
then draw'your swords.and follow me to.bat- he fortifies his position in the desert, fearing
tle and- victory and letus teach 'the world the attack of the Iduineans. In Ziklag Jon-
how mighty the arm of an oppressed nation than, a mere lad' commands who will: do
is. Let us teach the world a lesson for'the you littleedamage."'
benefit of all subjected, all oppressed nations  4must 'have:Ziklig first,' said'Apollp-
who feel .the- burning yoke of 4yranny, ant nius, " there I must outflank them. I1 hawe
have confidence enough in God's justice to to-day dispatched a sufficient' fdrce to sup-
.break the ironeroflof the oppr~essors Come,' potAley'mos iutakinga:thatjflaceaudebi'ing
warriors of Jsraek let us, set an example tome' 'that Jonatlian, lilting or/dead, who~ htd
the world,:thatruth inspires the heartarithr the audacitot deseeiate the mbilefoft~e-
mighty valorgandethedlove ofdliberty 'i$ o  ainuiueruslinu  ieandi~hle  'wi ld.
afire from beaveip that impels drdsidMibly to vance slowly to tliedeserh Ido ndtb1lIaf


TaE    FiRST     OF
ipyselfi' that the rebels 'will venture out of "Therefore I will crush the rebels before
t teswilderness; they dare not venture a their number is thus augmented," said
pitched battle in the open'field, being too Apollonius. "Tell my brother Seron, I
few in number, too poorly, equipped, and thank him for. his goodwill and advice.--
without any knowledge of a' regular war But it is my office to'subdue the rebellion,
fare. But if they should venture out of the and I will do it. No more words, -you have
desert, we will erusl thers at once."  done your duty. Rest and refresh yourself,
A messenger'of Seron was next admitted. return .to my 'brother Seron, and tell hini,
"My lord Seron, the king's general and Apollonius is strong enough to'subdue this
governoi' of Celosyria bid me to bring his rebellion.'"
profound respects and utmost veneration to  The messenger. bowed reverently and left
the great Apollonius, the king's general and the apartment. "This is the workof, Men-
overnor of Samaria and Jerusalem."    elaus," Apollonius, cried, furiously, ,when
Apollonius having returned the long com- the man was gone.. "He certainly informed
pliment in dule form the messenger of Seron the king and Seron, that I. am too weak to
continued: " By order of the king my lord maintain my post. I know that, traitor.-
.Seron comes with his army to support you But I will avenge myself., Not one of those
in your task. In Samaria thousands of Sa- rebels shall by spared, I will hurl them all'
maritans, denying to be Hebrews, augment to Pluto. Throdgh streams of blood and
his ranks and the' troops proceed as fast as over their .car cases, Iwill returnrto Jerusa-
possible. But the utmost precaution and. lem and.teach them obedience.: Death only
circumspection is necessary to march thro' can cure them of their .madness and disobe-
that mountainous land. The rebels throw dience.. Clio,,you go instantly to Jerusalem
obstacles' almost insurmountable in our and command the governor"of the city, to
way The roads are impassable. The hills sacrifice, the daughter pf Menelaus to the
And"caves are filled with "rebels. The nar- gods. She rescued Jonathan, who desecra-
row passes are fortified  and must be taken ted the temple of Venus, rescued Jose.,ben
by force. The wells are 'destroyed. Even Joezer from the hand of justice, and is now
the grass and fruitson the way-side are de- -one of the chief rebels. That woman must
st oyed, the villages are deserted, provi- be sacrificed to the gods within, three days,
sions removed, not even an animal can be and Menela s-it is his duty as the 'high-
gotten. 'Therefore, my lord, Seron proceeds priest of Jupiter-must preside-, over the
slowly, but he will surely come in time to solemnities,. If he refuses to do his duty, I
support your movements."          '  .command the governor of the 'city to arrest
"I have no need of him," said Apolloni- him and send him in chains to me, to ap-
us, in a proud toner "I can myself van- point another highpriest of Jupiter for the
quish a handful of alf nakea rebels. The. occasion, and have that woman sacrificed fo
king's precaution is not necessary at all.- the gods within three days after your arrival
Tell my brother Seron he need not,,expose in Jerusalem. This shall be the beginnii
his army, to any inconvenience. This re- of ny' vengeance, the end shall be dreadfut,
hellion will be subdued long. before he ar- I will teach those vipers, that I am Apollo-
xives,"                                nius."'I
"May it please my lord to hear my whple . Clio bowed submissively. r The scribe of
.ssage," said the man.  "My lord Seron Apollonius was called,' the document was
alsogommanded me to inform your highness, instantly written and-sealed and placed in
that large numbers of Hebrews from be- -the hands of Clio who was i'eady to'depart,
yond Jordan, from the borders of the Eu- Apollonius repeated his instruction and
phrates sand the Kabor. rivers flock to. the added: 'Aspasia, the priestess of Venus
Aesert. Also from Egypt and Cerene large who holds Iphegine in custody, must first
notabers of them' go to Ziklag to assist the of all be informed of my' will, and in her
rebels. lit is, therefore, int these opinion of 'presence the document must be delivered to
.ry; lord Seron most advisable that your the go'verior of the city 'and ~iyWill mist
Mighness zuake zno attaci heoe the succor be communicatedito Menelaus."'
o##m tle worth arises,"                  "Shje   most faithful dog among these

THE i'ACCABEJS.09
vipers," Apollonius soliloquized, "she will graceful windings. Iphegine was dressed
look 'to it, that my will be enforced. So in a plain white garb and a wreath of lilies
Will 'I' avenge myself, so will I extermin- bounded her black hair. She waspale-and
ate this race of. scorpions. None of them sad. No smile moved her lips; Gone were
shall be spared. Syrians and Greeks, must the two roses from her -cheeks, 'the brilliaht
inhabit this land, and the accursed Hebrews luster of her bright eyes was no more.' Her
must be exterminated,-this is the will of my tall figure was not bent, it did not shake,
king, this is also my will. Slowly and grad- still it had no longer that. proud'ebaring,
allyy I will torture them to death, that I be the lofty attitude which formerly was so nat-
fully avenged of these snakes."         rural to her. 'Her lips were not blue,' nor
Several =officers. at, once rushed into the did they tremble; but they were ;closed in
apartment of Apollonius.  Consternation silence,-and it appeared they would open no
was' depicted on every countenance. "The more.
enemy, my lord'i" all explained, simultane  Aspasia looked like triumphant hell. The
ously.                                  poisoning looks of the' basilisk darted forth
"What of the enemy?" he asked.       from her eyes, a  malicious  rle noved her
"Attacks our outposts," was the report; lips.  Satanic gladness radiated fromi her
"'our soldiers retreat  fast, and Phillipus is features, her 'voice sounded like satyr.---
dead."                                  "This is the last night of my foolish rival,"
"Phillipus dead!" he cried, vehemently, she soliloquized; "Again. one step nearer
" my beloved friend, dead! Ten thousand to my aim, I advance this night," she tho't,
rebels -shall be sacrificed for him. Yen- when her faithful servant Alcibiades' came
geance, Moody, cruel, inhuman vengeance in and told her that Amram was 'not in e-
for my friend Phillipus! To arms! Alarm, rusalem, he could be found-nowhere. iOne
the whole line! .To arms! 'To bloody, dia, moment she gnashed her teeth and exclaim-
bolic vengeance! You shall see how I shall ed, "If he. is at the utmost limits'of the
chastise those daring vipers, how I will kill earth, my hand shall reach-and crush hihi,"

them by the scores, by the thousands, how
none of them shall escape my hands. To
arms, Syrians! Alarm the whole line, and
let every man slay, destroy, annihilate those
dogs, that no trace be left of them. Ven-
geance for my friend Phillipus, death to this
wholenation-of scorpions!'
The orders were sent quickly-through the
lies. Every .man .rushed to his post.- and
in a short time the 'Syrian signals and the
Tekiah and Teruah of the Hebrews sounded
through the clash ofarms and the shouts
of 'enraged combatants. The battle soon
reached its pitch of. fury, and death claimed
its victims with violence.
CHAPTER XV.
T HE SURPRI SE.
In the temple of Venus at Jerusalem, where
we were before, Aspasia-sat alone.with Iph-
egine. Aspasit was dressed in the luxuri-,
ant garb and jewels of the sacerdotal office
with a wreath of variegated-flowers:inher
black tresses, and a garland wound from her
right shoulder to her left side, then around
}the:iwait whe     Wt fel dowrtQthe floor" in

then she was again herself, calr, quiet and
terrible. Turning to Iphegine she.said, in
a tone of goodness: "My lady, the'king aiid
Apollonius command that ybu die'for Jona-
than ben Matathia; you will- e saorifibed to
the goddess, whose temple he desecrated,
and he-he will"--
"What will he do?" Iphegine asked,
hastily.
"He will embrace another womnandtid
console himself," Aspasia quickly replied.
"Ere Helios opens the gates 'of morn,the
blood of chaste Iphegine will be spilt upon
the altar of the great goddess, and he---
" And.he will love me.forever," Iphegine
interrupted, n a triumphant voice. "1die
in his place, that he live and loye me forsv-
"I admire the noble nature, ,of,  an
who, notwithstanding the ten-thousan4,fold
disappointments she experiences," saidtAs-
pasia,g"' still clings to the generous -ho
of herheart,4.and closesCher; eyes.t, the
harsh results of herexperien9e. Nygopd,
poble tlphegine, yowdieto elsppof
unpleasant obligations, even hicfuwin

'
,cY
=;',

,
_
?Y ,


THE   FrR T .OF
you die. ;Yet, beloved, maiden, yet itis  "Away, serpentile woman," Iphegine
tint, to savetyour life; yet it might be in my cried, "and deprive menot of my hopes in
p!imesto resue, you from the eol'd embrace this last, hoir of life! MyGod, grant me
of ,death. If I -can safely tell the priest fortitude to bear patiently the impious scorn
'Jo**than returnss to receive his punishment, of this Satanic woman!"
Ipbegine will be, spared.,Call him back to  " Be not excited, good lphegine," she
gietir 'for, hi nselfl and live, beautifulIphe- said, ,kindly, "listen to my advice and I will
gide,, live ,for your nourning father,.for your rescue, you. I only wish to relieve you
despawi ig;riedidAlymose! .Be sure,- be- of the erroneous. hopes which misguide you
'lveduht aiden; if you;call him back, honor to death. Life is certain and swest, death
williotate him to' come without delay, you is certain and bitter, hope' is a boundless
are rescued, 'and- swear by the-immortal ocean from which no mariner returned to
gods, I will save his life."            describe the dreamland. Live, beloved Iph-
Swear by your chastity, the frigidness egine! live and enjoy the certain sweets of
of the sun, the kindness of the storm-tossed life."
sea; th,e, fertiiy of theidesert, or. the up-  "Life like love is eternal and death is a
rigb Hess pf your heart," said Iphegine, change of life,".said Iphegine. "That ev-
"andI might easier believe you than now, erlasting life at which you shudder back is
jut;now, when you invoke the gods whicli my harbor which I shall reach this night.-
have noexistence.,Let me alone in this There, before the throne of justice, we meet
solemn night,, my last on earth, that I think again., There-the Supremne Ruler of human
of my wretched father, of Jonathan's im- destinies will decide between us. There
moral love--that I 'die, with my recollec- you will learn.the triumph of love and vir-
tions of his holy promises and awake with tue, you will behold them and mourn over
Jove,,and Jonathan in a better world. lie their loss. Now let me alone to prepare
shall live fpr his people and-its cause, and 1 'niyself for the great change."'
die, that he live., Try to uproot the cedars  "Here Aspasia commands," she said, an-
of ebanon, attem pt to move, themountains grily,""'I' will 'let youialone whenever it
of Bashan, make efforts to cast the desert pleases me. Fii-st, however, I will make ev-
into the sea and rathei- hope for success, ery attempt in my powerto.save'ydufor
° ~your 'father and for  Alcymos.
than to make ne ore .moment believe Jona-
In vain;'terrible demon," said Iphegine,
than loyes , me .not, o' persuade me for, a                                 '
than loe~ m  no, a peruad  menever,' never shall 1 entice 'Jonathan into
short minute-to entice him' into your-snares.                tie dareaint
11 your 'snares. T alk . on till the day breaks
The king, Apollonius and Aspasia cari mur,  u
'dler me, but they can not deprive me of my scorn the Deity out of his realm, frail'mor-
.1y me, butad theyucan                        -dnotgdepriveitmeouofsmyr
love. Love and Jonathan shall be my last tal, torture adding woman with your scor-
wordsonearth, that the.,an gels re-eeho thempion hissing, weep, 'laugh,. bid or flatter,
.when'    soul joins their chorusHere pray or-menace, I'shall answer you no more.
h yo oH  I shall not listen to 'you. These last hourss
ypu separate two loving hearts,'there they belong to God, to ny father and'to Jonathan;"
will ieet again in the regions of everlasting  The patience of 'Aspasia' wsgone. Like
bliss,,..Tepteneo.Apsa"a~oe-"Lk
The loud and savage laughter of Aspasia a fury she poured forthher fierce wrath, a
'isouided like'the scorn of helland contrast- current of invectives and insults on the si-
ed most diabolically with 'the inspiration and lent and suffering maiden. Then she scorn*
solemnn to1e of Ihegirie." "The daughter ed at her faith, her love, her 'utmost weak-
,of Menelaus who abjured his God and apos- ness and helplessness, untilhot tears rolled
tatised his people hopes and believes!" she down, the pale :cheeks of poor Iphegine. -.
exelahed. "' Foly itself can not' be illus- Then again. she entreated her. to write to
ti'ated more exactlg The wise "father has Jonathan and invite him to rescue her, as
'ai God and an religion, arld 'the daughter :she -suffered on his account; buta n vain,
Ibeliever andshdpesl 0, jzor, poorest child 'lphegine was dumb as the statues of the
'~"selbdec'eit, how long y'et will yon deceive temple.:'Now 'the- first watchman :of ithe
~p~relf 14 heefoolish pettres'of 'ydnr ing templestruekE the metallhe 'helly four iipes,-
a ith hisiheavy'hammer, and the apiaesteskes

9;-

TH E MAOCABEES.

noticing the signal began the morning song.
They came with the' garments of the sacri-
fice, danced about Iphegine and sung their'
graveyard melodies while they dressed the
poor'-victim, for her last 'walk to the 'altar,
where she- should spill her blood to make'
atonement for the sacrilege.
-Iphegine looked indifferently on the priest-
esses and 'betrayed no emotion of fear.--
Again the chief watchman struck the 'me-
tallic bell 'ith his heavy hammer, five times
he now sti-uck the bell. The' chorus of the-
priests 'was heard from  the subterranean
temple, towelcome the victim. The priest-
esses pressed the red crown on the head of
Iphegine, and 'formedinto procession. As-
pasia opened the door and'called her guards
to protect the sacred virgins'in the perform-
ance of 'their duties. None, however, an-
swered her summons, not a sound was heard
from 'either apartment. Also the chorus of
the priests waO heard no more.  " Treaehe
ry!" shecried, furiously, "my guards have
deserted me."
Now a host of Syrian soldiers emerged
from the subterranean apartment and; quick
as lightning, they tied, bandaged-and gagged
Aspasia and' every priestess,'threw  a wide
black robearound Iphegine and carried her
off. In the tumult; however, she recognized
Jonathan, and cried, vehemently, his name;
but in vain; she was dragged away,,and com-
manded to be silent.
Know   it, profligate, hellish woman,"
Jonathan sai1 to'Aspasia, who laid helpless
and trembling on the .floor, "thypriests lay
slain in the temple, thy protectors are smit-
ten on the battle-field.' Apollonius is dead;
his host' is defeated and thy endis nigh. I
could"cut thee into small- fragments and
throw thy fiesh beforee the dogs;'but I kill
no nwoan. The hand of'justice' will smite
thee."
While Aspasia and her priestesses were
laying in'a  'helpless condition, 'Jonathan
and his comrades carrying ofi Iphegine, re-
turned to 'the subterranean temple, where
guards' and priests laid in' their .blod.'.--
Through along subterranean corridor 'thro'
whibh they' hid come they 'eeturned agttlin
and~reaehed the sheets. 'Beating the Syria
mareh they proceeeeddthroughe~~ity with-
oiut the'least '2noleatio tiid' rudeached BeeE
ili' tden the went' into a JErge houde,

7i

where their eyes were bandaged, 'andthen
they 'were led down, 'still, down,'then on--
ward' and onward aga in, finallytheir stops
were guided tpward,. ard=upward again:m
The bandages were removed and they stood
outside the city gates at the graves of'the-
kings.
The 'morning dawned. Iphegine again
recognized Jonathan   She -stretched out
her arms to embrace him whenexclaiming,
"Thank- thee, my-'kind saviort°"" Jonathian
pushed her:back  Cold A s the' ie of Le
banon he said: " We are' even.: Thoul h'ast
rescued mte,frora the same place anddange.r
Go to the mountains and repent thyTsins.
I shall weep for thee"' Jmohathai hastened
away, evidently fearing his'own -weakness,
and Iphegine reseinbled the tomb stones that
surrounded her., Again she-stretched' out
her arms after Jonathan: but 'he was gone,
and the soldiers urged her to mount the ass'
and follow tihem out of danger.
"Why did he rescue nie "to kill iMe te
thousand fold!" she :exclaimed, painfuly
but none appeared to listerito her words.-
Now she began to think, Aspasia was rixltht.
he wished to move her out of' his wy, tiat
she never accuse him  of faithlessness; 'but
her -love refused, to believe it, and w,ith'a
crushed heart she followed her leader,
CIIA P T   R  X VI.
A 'CONFESSION.
The name of.Judah .  accabee h'ad }become.
greater in Israel than that of Matatbia.It
was said of him that:his body was enlivened
by the heroic -soul of'king David, amdhis
iron-like framerwas steeled,'bythe'blessinge
of his father, so that neither sword,cnlubor-
arrow, orany other instrument could wt und
it. .Like'-a' lion he .started forth' rom the
desert at ,the head of his' army an4 surpri'
sed one town after the other, untilhefl~inally
reached the main'Farmy  f"Apolloeiui de,.
fated i  killed Apolloniu ,'in,' th  bad4,
and drove the fragmenteof the 'Syila'i'n
into'the fortified places' 'puru  henai
body 'to' the-very igtes df"erusaieuin 'whien,
htrii'i miade his, h'6iinjarti's  Mia1.
The spiit oeithk pytiidisvaf"r~inald t~
h9f ptch. Thelilr61d'bthe hbAW
t&amp;thdiatorions diidido~
ha.. XReywhere    phtserN.       9

.

.


T HE.FIRST      oF
dieted the end of oppression. Signs were brother, and on returning he tarried -too
seen in heaven and expounded as the reveal- long at Engadi; there he was surprised with,
ing fingerof God, that victory and triumph the rest by my brother. He fought not yet
waseain.    easantt'an4 shepherds-either some of our warriors' attempted to kill him.
prophesied or took up arms, any kind they I could not see the wrong,,and interposed
cold fid, and singing psalns or shouting myself between him and his enemies as I
songs of victory they followed the-victorious have done at Modain. They sparqd his life,
b nners of the great Maccahee. Women Only a few minutes afterward.I was cut off
inmeni'saparel tught on the side of their from the main body and attacked by three
husbands or sons. Boys had heroic dreams Syrian soldiers. Amraih, so is his name,
ardicapable of resisting;their aspirations, Amram with a glittering; sword and a heavy
bought high heeled,'sandals and high caps, hammer rushed to my assistance.  'For
an4kfllowed the Maccabee's banners; So mercy's sake, kill her not, she is a woman,'
afterthe battle was won and Apollonius was he cried, and swung sword and hammer with
killednot only anindescribable wealth of the desperate strength of a fury. The sol-
armsymunit4ons: of War, provisions, silver dies surprised "left me and attacked him.--
and gold felinto the hands of the victors, They-wounded himn, I saw the blood rapidly
b tta large number of warriors daily flocked, flow from his arm, I killed one of his assail-
to.Itle.standards of the patriots, and the ants, he killed the 'two others, and disap-
courage of.the 'army bordered on inspira- feared in the multitude."  Here she stopped
tion'                                   abruptly. Her mother clasped her in her
Judah sat at Mizpah surrounded by his arms 'and exlcaimed, "Daughter of Mata-
brothers except Jonathan, and-his mother. this, heroine child of, the Asmonean, I un
Before.him there stoodj Rebecca in the garb derstand thy woe, I feel'thy grief!"
and,;armament of a, warrior. "Knowest     "Go on, my beloved sister," Judah urged,
thoui, riot, n  sister, that, the sacred Law  'what, didst thou do then?"
prohibits woman to, wear the apparel'of  "Having reached my brother, I fought at
nan?". Judah asked.   "Why then didst his side," she continued.  "He found no
thou defy the laws apd leaving woman's tent time to recognise ma Onwaid,-.still on-
meddle 'among warriors?"               ward he pressed his troops inwpursuit of the
While at Ziklag, Jonathan with a hand- enemy, defeating  him at n ever entcofte
defatig hia e.     ey ,nruater,
ful of men surprised the enemy at Engadi," and giving them no time to rest or re-organ-
she said.  " He sent word to Ziklag, if ize. So he drove them to a place near Beth-
smoke should rise from the village, two hun- lehem where he heard'that Apollonius had
dred warriors should come tohis. support.-- his headquarters inthe place.  Brethren
Smoke did rise, the. warriors hastened to the let us attack the braggart,' he cried, and all
rescue of their chief,:and--0, I could not were willing to follow, when on a sudden
at ayis Ziklag. If Jonathan calls for help, we heard the, cornet of our main army
dlange mustbe great. I Ifound 'this arma- sounding from a distance. 'That is .broth-
moenthand, uniform, of an arm-bearer of a er;,Judah!' Jonathan cried, 'comrades to
Syrian ;tdicery, and ,in them I followed the the attack!' All rushed to the attack. We
host-wArrived at Engadi, I-mixed among fought. our way through. the very heart of
theorce combatants 'and fought my, way to the enemy."
4'                                 "God. bless the brave and daring Jona-
:"feaYest fltoall, my sister," said Ju- than!"' Judah exclaimed, ahnostinspired
dal,~ fog thou hada a gy'arre1 gith a patrie with joy and enthusiasm. " Yes, need,
t    ,a  n!ueg"ier, then thou waste a he went right through Bethlehem,withis
Pes se and O       "      ,     noble h andand none could arrest hisro-
"#?  tefyruar sopdhgribravely ventured gross,. Thie confused the enemy that be
bji (l $9 oesege pjge," she "eclaimed.- knew not where ouranain body wan  Be sat-
9~~ 2 swor apsspre4 gath to his dying tacking the npen pf Jonalthan/ we fell 'inhis
t9,mo 9qfilt Ea~iltthefriendspof h4e sank with such a violence, that in. ten  .'
~~~u 1'vgpe4him at            odain, utesthayvewee trowd upon their effgen-
i~'  ~e~hra14frga the gagy's camp tony ter. with sitch Aognfusion, that they could

T H E MA
neyerhre-organize. But where is brother
Jonathan?"-
'.'On the height near Bethlehem we saw
the enemy retreat fast and in disorder,"
said Rebecca, -"and our warriors, like the
hurricane of the desert, pursuedhim. We
heard the shouts of victory and received the
news, that "thou hadst stain haughty Apollo-
nius, and the victory was ours. Then I saw
Jonathan and about fifty of his warriors
dressed in the uniform and armament of
the slain Syrians and start of. They said
he 'ent to Jerusalem.' I wanted to follow
him, but at this moment a patriot recogni-
zed, and arrested me, and 'brought 'ml hith-
er.'
. To 'Jerusalem!" all- exclaimed, simul-
taneously.  May God grantthat the daring
man,,venture not withinthe walls of Jerusa-
1em, 'said:Judah; "for there ---
"There also the Gdd of Matathia watch-
es," Mriam exclaimed, "and none shall
harm one hair on his head."
Thex cornets signalized the arrival of fresh
troops, and in a few minutes Jonathan in the
Syrian uniform  entered' the room.  The
whole family surrounded himn, and in short
teams; he" told his story, how the Builders led
him into 'the: city through the, very cave
through which heafirst escaped from 'Jrusa-
lem; how they, yielding to his prayer;.led
also his-warriors through the same:sibter-
raneapwalk into the city; how they surpri-
sed the priests and guardians of the temple
of Yenus, through the aid 'of a 'corrupted':
servant who show; them a secret entr'y to the
lower temple," huw they rescued Iphegine
and escaped 'happily. ','        '
"Daring;'dvnatdrous hero!" Judah'ek-
claimed, "'herein the pre-sence of 'thy moth-
er shalt thou promise to be-:nore cautions in,
future, not to expose sb recklessly'your life''
I promise :nothing,"said:,Jonatha .
'9 ty called me to Jerusalem and;I =was ;
ther;' Now he narrated thee causes df his
extraordinai'y adventure.
'i~,Ad 'where~ is lphegine?"'.his 'mother 1
2 noato yogmder nmountains to repent her'
sigwcep' way 1Ker shame'insilentiolitude'
aA&amp;'lwparo for':eaien,"he said.' "God# s
umet-ifaulh nmy Torivedieriiqities,'and t
4Imugh~1ere wemay isget again.' Here we t
shall meet no more."
10

CCAB1RES.                           78
" Also thou unhappy, my beloved Jona'
than?" his mothr asked with a voicetfll
of a melodious sympathy. "Jonathan con-
sole myjAaughter Rebecca; Rebecca cuso1e
my son Jonatian, and God may console you
both."  She pointed to the young warrior,
and Jonathan recognizing his sister cried,
"Thou the valoroushoy who fuglitoh my
side'in EngadiandHhebrob? 'Yes,' . the
mercy of heaven it is my 'sister"! lo em.-
braced her and cried, passionately 'e
ashamed Gentiles, you dare not boast upon
one such jewel in all your diade s: Mth-
er, brothei-s father, glorious .ft h er 'Mata-
thia, she fought with, the courage of ayodnng
lion'and the death-defying braveryof Joab
and David. My beloy-ed sister, tihou  ast
maine me pruer than I ever' was!'
' Brother Jonathah, thou hast acted too
hastily,"- said Judah, "tlionu shouldst' Ia=e
given a hearing to Iphegine But this is
not the time 'to speak of this matter. Seron
with his aimy comns'flown from Samria, he
hast'eaghed nearly the hights of ' ethoron.
ie thinks we are'tired 'and maacr hes fst'to
surprise us. Early in the morning w' #must
Ieave and -each'Bethoron before heexpects
us. We iust defeat'him.' Then the lead
is oursand the cities belong to 'tie kfIg, un-
til God will'give us  strength to 'take''them.
All' divisions of ,our-army must-'beunited
there., Sister Rebecca, thou'faitqueste'd
to stay in 1ii pihwith thy -mother, 'dnd'lglit
no mere; 'lso nt at the side of thydarik,
bra&amp;f aid' adventusoubrther; A' good
woman must libt attempt dtod the w4r' of
Snan. "She hds he blessed split re aunher
sacred duties. Sister, 'M ittithia'' g* 1r
Faust i' vii-ti oils'Woniaet d d no-*aiior."
'Rebeca' nbere4 ele ah'tly, the  Yi
brothersleft M.h li' n'thnest iorni n  -
TLhen she wepta tar for Ami amtwoi as
now somiich dearereto  heart   it Oshe
sawhiharit6'.8riri   faob^le tl 9nhet
she exclaimed often, when alone Iht ' m
coard in heg~4nmaion. 199
o; 7yehtkheb tn coarfish '  Y bt4
hope,'tWhit he' till '~ightjiefft zil ~o
he iatriotsf and lOoe'd'ia   i~
his sincere wish.     .~     :


74                           THE    F
CHAPTER X VII.'
CoNsTERNATIoT.
Menelaus sat in his room silent. and alone
with'his grief. lls visage was deadly pale,
his eyes without luster or motion, his head
dropped to his bosom, and his mouth closed.
So he' sat allnight, afteko hehad bid farewel
to his daughter. .To servant was admitted,
the silence of the graveyard- reigned in the
palace. Suddenly 'the afflicted man rose,
and with a hollow voice he cried: "She is
dead, her grief, her 'afflictions are ended;
but mine,"-he struck his breast, "mine burp
in this heart and consume the blood of life "
After a long' pause he continued, "Shame
on Menelaus whose only daughter fell a vic-
tim to' the tyranny which he,'supports in or-
der to bea higbpriest! Shame on human
nature, the father sacrifices his own child to
maintain his dignity.". Thus he quarreled
with. uhise, when a servant entered and,
after many bows and excuses, he announced
Philarches, the governor of the city.
"I congratulate you, my divine lord,"
said 1'hilareches, "your child was rescued.
She lives." '
Menelaus had no words.- He wept and
embraced Philarches who'told him, that 'he,
this morning, went to the.temple of Venus
to, witness the sacrifice as Apollonius had'
conmanded, but on arriving there he found
th priests and guards slain, the priestesses
tied, bandaged and gagged and Iphegine
was gon4. He narrated,.how .he released
the priestesses, and Aspasia in a fit' of rage
told im that Jonathan at the head of some
fty Shiai soldiers 'broke into the temple
,and rescued lpheg ne..
Fenelaus coulk scarcely recover from his
surpiseand joy; but Philarehes contained,
"Aspig also tells me that our armyis d9-
fe te an ,,Apolloniusjs deaq."'
shilarches predicted," said Mene-
;aus.   The proud man ran into his death
notwithstandingthe cautioning voice of his
frieds." a, i  e    .
.d30:id' ionthan cpme into the city?"
was. Air question of Philarelhes. "My di-
vine lord, there myst be traitors in Jerusa-
Ism, "and it is our dut  odsoe  hmN
e $tnvestgate into this matter, the
oQrtup~ and the swod must be applied to ae-
certain the traitors."

FIRST OF
At this instant the voice of Amram was
heard in the lnti-chamber singing merrily:
e       "I fear that woman's fiery eyes,
I dread her look,'that keen1f vias
With starry rays and sunny beams.
Her words are sweet,,her kiss inspires
The coward's breast with heaven's fires,
The soul, the heart with rapture teems."
".What means this?" Philarches asked.
-"It is my fool," said Menelaus. "When
Apollonius left the city the soldiers dragged
him along. He returns just now from the
camp. Let us'hear his reports."
Amram was called. One arm bandaged,
he entered.
"Where wast thou, fool?" Menelaus ask-
ed, harshly.
"Where thou wast not," was the brief
answer of Amram.    "First I was where I
was dragged'to, then where I was sent, and.
last where I was driven. I had little to eat,
still less to drink, and no fun at all, 'When
all run 1 run. fastest, and. so I came first."
" You are wounded?" Philarches asked.
"Yes," said the fool, " the dogs bit 'me.
The dogs and black bullocks are sometimes
possessed of evil demons. ;Ashmadai's-dogh
did bite me. Sire, did ever a dog bite thee?"
"Never," said. Philarches, smilingly;
"but tell me who is Ashmadai?"
"He is the prince of demons," said Am-
ram, "half angel and half man. Like an-
gels he is everywhere, rises to heaven and
is immortal; and like manhe eats and drinks,
sleeps and begets his ownkind. 'There is a
mountain somewhere, where Ashmadai has
his well of water, there he drinks. When
done 'he rolls ,the heavy stone on-'the well
and seals it  with his seal.- When Solomon,
the wisest king, wanted to"build the temple
be knew-not where to findthe worn Shamir,
by whichto.split and carve stone without
the use of iron, for the Law "forbids to lse
iron tools.,on the Lord's- altar."' The king
sent .Benaiah, Joadinh's son to catch Ash-
madai in order to learn the secret habitation
of the worm Sharir "If Shamir touches a
-stone, it splits and iaspolished-in' anyway,
Benaiah went to the mountain'Iwhere:Ash-
madai 'has -his well, he 'dug a hole under
Ashmadai.s.well and the water rushed
into it. Then he let twine flow into Ashina.'
dais'' well. The deceived Ashmnadai; after
examining'his seal, found all corret, opened

THE     MACCABEES.a7I
the well and found wine ,for water, quite a vulture,:however, unable to keep his promise
profitable change. He considered for a mo- to return the' Shamir, committed suicide that
meant, then he, told himself as David said:' moment."
" And wine makes glad the heart of man."  Menelaus in vain bid, him;silenqe, he
Ashmadai the fool drank of the' wine, and wouldn't listen. He.continued narrating:
when he was drunk he fell asleep. Then " Meanwhile Ashmadai swallowed king Sql.
Benaiah took the holy chains and bound omen, and with one wing in heaven and the
Ashmadai and brought him before king Sol- other.on earth he spit Solomon into a distant
omon."                                 land, assuming himself the form of Solomon
"Thou art. a fool," Menelaus exclaimed, .and. reigning in his stead. Now Soioppon
indignantly, " we do not wish to know all was apoor nan, he begged his bread and
this."                                 fought his way back to Jerusalem. Arrive
"I am a fool, that is true," said Amram, there he said so long and often, 'I was king
" but Ashmadai also once was a fool. He of Jerusalem,' till the sages said, there must
is none now, and so I may become wise be some truth in that' man's words, as:the
right hereafter. But Ashmadai "        fool not always says one sort. of folly. On
"None wishes to hear thy story, fool," investigation they found that Ashmadai sat
Menelaus interrupted.,                 on the throne of Israel' and the stranger
"Still I wish to tell it," Anyram said, and was the genuine king Solomon. They drove
hastily he continued:. "Iy the way Ashma- the evil demon from Jerusalem and Solomon
dai saw a merry wedding party and he cried, reigned again in peace, built the temple,
He heard a man bespeak a pair of shoes to and was a great kmng."
last him seven years, and he laughed. Then  "Philarches 'asked Amram, "What.means
he saw a shabby, ragged, poor man and all this?"
kissing him he shew him the road."       "That Ashmadai had a large stomach
" No m~ore!". Menelaus admonished- and'a big hand.-But when he was asked
" we do not wish to know any more."'   why he wept on seeing the merry wedding,
"None wishes to know more than suffi- he said,'the man would not live one year
cient," said Amram, "but like everybody, I longer.. Thenhe was asked why he laughed
like to talk more than enough.}-. Ashmadai at the man who wanted'a pair of, shoes. to
on being brought before king Solomon threw last him seven years, he said, the man knows
a cane four cubits long to his feet, saying: not whether he will live to morrow, why
So .much room is, enough to man, and thou does he want such shoes. Then Ashmadai
having conquered the world art not satisfied said, the man, ragged, wretched andebpori,
and still disturbest me. Said Solomon, I do whom I shew the right way, is the faaOrite
not wish to disturb thee, I only wish to-know of the Lord, who will outlive 'the nie'ry
of thee where to find the worm called iBha- wedding party and the man whose shoesare
mr."                                  to last sevenyears. Ashmadai,-the lord'of
"Stop fool," Menelpus bid, "or I will call demons, has, a big stomach and large brains,
my servants."                          he knows everything. ' Still the sages found
"I can not stop ere I am done," said Am- out his tricks and drove him from Jerusalem.
ram, " wise men stop in time, and I am a It is most marvelous "--
fool.- Then Ashmadai said, the vulture   " Stop, fool! " Menelaus commanded.-
which builds his nest among rocks, bor- "Tell me where thou wast."
rows the Shamir of the Liloth to split the -"Always .onward, over fields, meadows,
rock and throw see51 therein, that vegetables vineyards, by forests,.:brooks, and rivulets
grow to nourish ethes young 'birds.. Then the soldiers dragged me to Engadi,".said
Benaiah went into the desert, laid in wait Amram. "~ Thene lord Alcymos gave me a
for the vulture t411 he came. with the ,Shamir letter.'' Meredmraimwalked athewrom inu
ini his mouth;4 thten Benaiah cried aloud, the a wandering condition of mind. Menelana'
vultre Was frightened, the $harnir fell from  ad hilarghes asked. dm ,etgies after
his rn9uth, ands Benaiah took and brought his adventures before he, ansterede Then
the rare creature to his royal maste~r. The jhe said: "They took my horned hat, 0 dear

'}{ rN                 ,
g :13h             ..                     ,"

t.  .


76'                          TuB    FIRsr    O.
my horned hat, and made a Syrian, soldier " There is treason, foul treachery nt the bot-
of me. I was;send to Ashmadai'to Ziklag." tom. 0, my king, how art thou betrayed by
"What btisiness hadst thou inAshmadai's thy pretending friends! 0, Syria, how art
house?" Menelaus asked.                 thou betrayed by, thy false patriots! Speak,
"None whatever," said 'Amram, " but fool, did Alcymos send thee' with a letter to
lord 'Alcynios told me, all the charms were Jonathan?"
written in the' letter, that Ashmadai could "No, no, nio, he did rot send me to Jona-
not'swallow me as he did'king Solomon. He than," said the fool. "lie gave me, a letter
told  mto give "the better to Ashmadai and full of charms as the priests can write'it,
tell him'lIphdgine sends this letter,' then and bid inc take it to Ashmadai in Ziklag,
Ashmadai would swallow the 'letter and and say, "Iphegine sends this letter.' 1 did
burst iistantly. I'went and gave the letter so, but Ashmadai did not swallow the letter,
to Ashimadai'and' said 'Iphegine sends this nor did he purst."
letter.' But he did not swallow it, nor did  "Is' it the same Ashmadai thou hast seen
he burst. He got angry and I ran away.- here, when thou first eamest in this house?"
When I was in Engadi, Ashmadai with his Menelaus' asked.
host'cain after me, and a bloody fight be-  "He is still' the same he was in king Sol-
gan. Then all ran away .and I ran fastest omon's time," said 'Amram.  "He never,
upto Bethlehem."                       changes. He swallowed Apollonius and his
"Who ran away?" Menelaus'asked.      host and' did not burst. When he was here,
"Lord Aleymnos and everybody else," said he looked like a young man. In Ziklag he
Amram   "Or can you fight Ashmadai who looked exactly so, but it is Ashmaiai."
swallowed king Solomon?-When I came to    "It is certain," said Menelaus, "Alcymos
Bethlehem there was Ashmadari' and his deceived us. He betrayed us to the Macca-
demons. They cried, shouted, fought, killed bees, and Apollonius was surprised, defeated.
and swallowed the people, as :he did king and killed. My lord, now it will be 'a diffi-
Solomon. - There was blood, fire,.noise, con- cult taskto keep the city quiet. None must
fusion,death, h ell, fury, on all sides. - Then know of our defeat, much less of the death
all the captains were slain. Then Apolloni- of Apollonius, until Seron's army is in the
us way killed and all ran away. I ran and field and near enough to reach the city in
Ashmadai, after me."                   case of emergency."
" Terrible! Terrible!"  Philarches ex-  The joy ,of the two men at the death of

claimed: "Fool didst thou see Apollonius
dead?"
"Nobody could see," said Amram, "there
was darkness, confusion, horror, noise and
delusion, fighting, shouting and cursing,
groaning, moaning and snatching, when
Ashmadai swallowed Apollonius as he did
king, Solomon, and all ran away as I did.--
Then Ashmadai spit out Apollonius, who
crie4, like Solomon, 'I was king in Jerusa-
lem,' then he avas dead. All are dead, ex-
cept those who ran away."
" Then we are defeated!"  Philarches-
exclaimed, " defeatedas I predicted."
"We are swallowed," said Amram..
" Ashmadai swallowed 'Apollonius."
"Understand, my: lord," said -Menelaus,
" the fool imagines Jonathan to be Ashma-
dai.'
"And Aleymos-sent himto Jonathan with
a letter of Iphegine! " he exclaimed.-

Apollonius was so great, that the supposed
treachery of .Alcymos,-the escape.of 'Iphe-
gine,and thedisgraceful defeat of; the army
was for the moment forgotten. They could
scarcely hide their joy before one another.
" I will keep Jerusalem quiet,"' said Phi-
larches, "let this be my care. Let it be
your dity, my divine lord, to inform  the
kin' of what we know. I will search after,
the secret spot through which Jonathan  es-
caped again with Iphegine, and the traitors
shall be duly punished. Let the king know
his friends and his enemies," said Philar-
ches, again, "let him know hoWv to value
us."
When Philarches was gone, the highpriest
again called Amram and attempted to lea-ni
as much of; him as possible. But Airain
always told" the same story of 'Ashiad'ai
and no more. In regard to the letter lie"
was especially anxious to elicit mor infar-

THE MA~CrABE1C.

77/

motion; but Amnram could not be induced to
say much. lie said enoughto throw any
amount of suspicion on Alcymos,. and then
caine out joke and folly. When the morn-
ing dawned the city began to fill with the
fugitives from the battle-field., The brag-
ging of the soldiers and'their lies;excepted,
they confirmed fully the story of Aram.-
The disastrous defeat and de'th of Apollo-
nius by the hands of Judah Maccabee was
certain. As much as $enelaus rejoiced ov-
er this and the escapeoof his daughter, he
was troubled with apprehensions,. the Mac-
cabees might attack the city. The most ac-j
tive preparations of defense, were made,
messengers were sent to Seron, to the king,
to the governors of the adjoining provinces,
and nothing was spared to defend' the city..
Meanwhile the 'age of Aspasia was bqund-
less. None vexntured near her fearing to be
made the ob ject of her furious anger. On,
hearing-of the death of Apollonius fear in-
creased ,her-furious rage to madness, and
she accused every human being, of treache-
ry against the king. in company of Phi-
larcheswhom she had-alreadyenta ngled in,
her diabolic net, she searched through the
city to discover, the secret spot through
which Jonathan entered'and leftthe city.--.
Many an innocent head fell that day itt Jet
rusalem being suspected of a knowledge of
the.secret entry to the city; but, inyain, no-
thing could be discovered. -When evening-
approached and the' secret entry had not
been discovered, consternation'seied'on the
heads'of the city, no man was permitted to,
sleep or lay down his arms. Menelaus and'
Philarches spent the night in the forts, and
Aspasia trembled at, her own. shadow,-
Bands of Syrian soldiers patrolled the city
all night,"the watches on the walls and tow-
ers were doubled, still none felt secure.-
The returning soldiers rthade such terrible
reports of the' bravery and numbers of the
patriots, that everybodytrembled-at the least
signal from the watch-posts.
Amrai was the only fearless man in the
city, he i-ejoiced at the'sight of general con-
sternation among hose who but a short time
ago'cornedatithe patriots, lie dressed his
wounds and 'reinambered with delighlt, when
' he r.Ncud l eimea from the hands f th
Syrians, when she ii return 'saved''his lire.

His wound was a. source of pleasure and
hope to him.  "She loves M(!" he 'xelaxim-
ed, frequently, when alone, "ndmfIier
love I gladly endure this humiia ionI
love you, patriots of Israel, 'and for your
sake-I will stay here and. serve your cause.
I have brought'that scandalous Alc  osinto
ill-repute, his he td be'longst9 the kingan(
I wil°'fveinge Israel on its 'other ene pies.-
My father, I shal 'not-iolatiny  a h, n'or
shall 'forget theduties I owe to my people"
Toward the davn o      f riing thefswhole
city was thrown into a tte of alarnnd
confusion;'for the'ottpos  reported acoin
motion among the eneing at Mizp'ah, and
everybody believed an attirek was tobe made
on Jerusalem. Every man rushed to his
post. ' The heavy stes of' thewt riorq, the
metallic olangcof arms, the signalahd coi
mending voices'of the officei$esounded a-
fully through the city and friglitaed ov'ery
child ;froni its,'couch.' Amram was eailyto
set the house on fire as soon as the 'tacl
upon the city would begin. Trembling with
anxiety and agitation he waited fr'the mo-
ment of certainty that the attack wal begun,
when Aspasia reeled into the palace'
right into the' room of Amnram.  "Whee'
is your master, ye faithless dogs?" she'&amp;i'
ed, 'furiously, "Where is the highprii st?'I
must see hiin forthwith."
Amram could not answer immediately, for'
to be discovered in this critical mnioient-
was very dangerous. Seeing that she did
.not recognize him instantly, he'gained his
presence of 'mind, and assunied-a'visage so
idiotic and inexpressive,,that i'o'ne could
recognize him' Aspasia, with the voic6 of
despair,thundered: "Will you i mmediately
conduct nite to your master?"
"Pst, my  ady, do not' crys6 'loud, that
none hears thee," said Anir ,'and   will
sing thee a new song; a nice, new and sweet
song; a song of love ahd joy."'
Aspasia lifted upher 'hand to strilt6 Ain
ram nd'cried'frantically, "Tolls mthe
yournmter-is-!" ' '             '   '
Amram, apparently without noticing h&amp;
rage, danced imerrily and sang:
ef po7isindhubps isagteed2 babes;
lie aweils where Plato thionies,
In Orcus atrwin ghosts aiia shaes.
He drinks theblod of hearts ' ''
Which suffr pain, despair, remorse;' ,


,78'

Tint FiRST OF

And plays with broken hearts
To muse awuy his time, of course.
fe conns the sins and crimes
Of falln net and faithless wives';
The woes of :olden times,
The'tears and sighs of foolish lives.
There was so terrible a clang in Amram's
melody and in the- idiotic. war of laughter
with which he closed his song .and dance,
that Aspasia, shuddered. Like the snake
before the Indian juggler she stood terrified
before the horrid man.  " Who is thy -mas
tear?" she.asked, with;a trembling voice.
'" everybody's master is also mine," said,
Amram.    "Apollonius is with Pluto or Ju-
piter and  am 'here., Wilt thou go to my.
master, "tell me, and I will show thee the
way."
Eyery hair' on Aspasia's head .stood on
end. Trembling, she .left the, room, and
Amram felt relieved. The noise and con-
sternation meanwhile had considerably in-

" My lord, the soldiers look sad," the ofi-
eer continued, "and' assure me the, ease is'
quite urgent, despatch is required. Hear
them and judge then, whether this is the
proper time for recreation."
"We forced our way through the holes
and strongholds of this diabolic country;"
said Seron, yawning, "we' must have some
rest. I have sent a messenger to Apolloni-
us and cautioned him. - He will not fight till
we arrive. We are in time."
"The soldiers you should instantly hear
are fugitives from the army of Apollonius,"
said the dficer, "who is defeated and killed."
This information did not fail to rouse Se-
ron from his lethargy. He started from hi-
seat and asked the officer: '" Did you 'hear
right? Do you mean to say Apollonius is
dead, and his army is defeatell?"  -
" So' the soldiers say," the officer respond-

creased in the city. Every moment the at- ed.
tack was expected.                       "Bring them hither!". Seron commanded;'
the officer left iand Alcymos was ushered into
C HA P T ERXyIII.               the room. He fell upon one knee, "May
C   I   PT  A T XVI I. N-the great Seron live forever," he saluted the
T H E DBP U T ,A T 10 N,   ' general, who 'received' him without ceremo-
In Nethoron Seron the Syrian- commander ne   , Who tid    do you      rm
of Celosyria sat in a luxuriant apartment bother A t tidings do you bring fro?"iy
surrounded by the wealth and splendor of an  "He is dead 'and his army is defeated,"
oriental court. Seron wasa stout: and tall' said Alcymos, in a melancholy tone.  " The
man with long hair and beard. his small rebels, in covenant with'treachery, surprised
black eyes were scarcely visible in his round him at Bethlehem, killed him and made ha-
and fat countenance.' His rich vestments, voc of his troops. Many of them fled to
golden chain: around the neck on which a JruS-alem, others fled in -all directions'I
large and brilliant star wasqsuspended, and succeeded in stopping about one thousand
the golden handle of 'his saber, set with dia- men whom I brought hither to succor you.
monds, marked the high officialof the Syri-. "He was a braggart and no warrior,"
an court. A woman of exquisite beauty said Seron, "he could fight defenceless wo-
amused him with playing the harp and sing- men, children, and old cripples; but he nev-
ing pleasant airs while, slaves upon one er was a warrior. Rise,Alcymos, -captain'
knee reached him the wine in golden goblets, of one thousand Syrians, rise -and partoke,
and other, refreshments in silver plates.- of my hospitality! Be of good courage, we
The room was perfumed and the floor was will fight: those rebels,;and you shall have
covered 'with silken carpets of Damascus. of them-one thousand slaves to reward your
"I will hear the reports of Apollonius. invaluable services. :Rise and sit at my
wlhenever J am~disposed to .hear warlike right hand side!"f
tales," said Seron, "now I amuse myself  Alcymos rose and, bowing profoundly, he
quite well."                           said, "Not for reward but for victor y I risk-
But the soldiers say thematter is ur- ed my life on the field of battle.
gent," the reporting officer urged.      "I understand your magnanimity," said,
"I do not' wish': to be disturbed in my Seron, hastily;  still a; king must really'
hours of amusement,",said the general, "I reward his friends.-.You spoke of tiradhe-
serve the king, but when I am tired I must ry, what do you know about it?"
have my time 'recreation."             "It is certain to my mind, that Monelans

TH.E    MACCABEES..                             79
has a secret understanding with the rebels,"  The Messenger bowedsandleft,;the report-
said Alcymos. "His daughter helped.Jon- ing officer said atruce;from the ene y +was
athan the AsmQten out of Jerusalem when waiting outside. On permssion @uathan
he was in our hands,.,and while I was in and two officersabeaning flags oftr ceewe
Engadi I apprehended the fool of Menelaus admitted. The bandage being -taken_ from-
who oonfessed having carried a letter from theireyes, Jonathanrecognizing Alcyinos, a
the highpriest to Jonathan.  During the shrill tone;escaped his lips.  What have
combat the fool escaped or else I wouldhave you to tell me?" Seron asked harshly.
brought, him hither.' These things amount  "Nothing in the presence of this ' aari;
almost to positive evidence. that Menelaus said Jonathan-dryly.
stands in connection with the rebels. Qnly  ",Be careful, Hebrew, not toplaywiththe
thus the surprise at Jerusalem becomes-in- patience of a royal commander," Seronime-
telligible.-' Through the agency of the:spies naced. "I must be told briefly whatyou
of Menelaus,.Judah Maccabee -and Jonathan want."
were informed of our positions and move-  " My lord is an oath sacred in your esti-
ments, and succeeded in defeating us."  nation?" Jonathan asked.
"My lord,",said, thereporting officer, 4it  "Did you;come to propound questions, or
isnecessary thatyonihearthe messenger from to sue for pardon?" Seron-asked,.
Jerusalem;"                               "Neither, my lord," said Jonathan. "Still
"Admit him!" was the answer, and the I pray you-to favor me with an answer. Is
man appeared. "My lord Philarches sends an oath sacred in-your estimation?,'
me greeting to the King's glorious general  "An oath consists of words, and words
Seron, the governor of Celosyria,"-said the are sounds. 3 Are sounds sacred V?" was the
stranger, 'and wishes me to pray you to answerof Seron.
march toward Jerusalem which is threaten'  "Then:I have to say nothing," said Jonas
ed ,by, thelenemy. Jonathan the Asmonean than. "Command,, my lord,'that our eyes
secretly entered the city rescued from the be, again bandaged,,and we be. led back' to
temple of Venus, a condemned woman' who our friends.
should have bled thatnight, on the altar of . "Did your commander send you hither to
Jove, because her lover desecrated the ten ask this question?" Seron asked somewrhat
pie of Venus, and thewoman effectedhis surprised n
"'No,'he sent me hither to make yu oe
escape. He rescued her, killed, the priests
d1                              positionsns" said Jolnathan," but it is i .
and the gtardiansof the :temple, tied, ban-pa
daed and    d     the                   possible for me to speal ofs things so'impor-
dgedadgagged-thepriestesses; and es-
ped unhurt. ' There rust 'he treachery in tant inthe presence of yonder man who is
cape gnurt Thre  ustbe reaher unknown to me as a ped"jurer."
Jerusalem. The enemy concentratesat Miz- k"N o msals iipemyjre  e    "    -
"oinsutlts ti_-' ay presence'!"~ Seiou .
pah and a ,urprises apprehended. There- harshly commanded
fore, rnylord,.Philarchs desires you to send  "An oath consit of words, ad rord
himsu port-or march your whole, army to are sound",' Jonathan slowly r      .eated,
Jers ae^. a       're   "ere'is     "therefore it is no disgrace tb'be a pejru
y ayreiharked   Here is one individual"'    r     '
re  ence fr my suspipion"'             "Young man beware lest you -provokes
Iturn to your lord. Philarehes," said my fre,"'said Seron, "it is a dangerous e'
-   d tell him that succor shall be terprise."
sent him.        .9"     '                 True .enough " said Jonathai. "Om
"'et me remind my lordl," said tp e'mes- reaching this cmp your subordinate offioerse
senger "hat immediate help is necessary, according to the customs of warfare, i11yolur
it op not too laealready." ..nagpe respe~eted our trnce and promised ust
to"e w  thoud men march directly proteehip' and safety in yourcanmp; batk
tJertsalem'," said $eron,ttt his. attending words are sounds, are sounds sacred?6 Tee
olier, namung, the davisions and offeprs fore I request you to send its back to our.
wo charged with the task, "an4 let frieds".a
th~nmarc dy aund night to reach Jerupa- "said evr violated the rights qf he r~~


'                         -   Ta      FiRST' O
"9Deceiuse'you never' tiorrht, 'that- words you mustha  e despised us, as you'despise
are fram  sounds," said Jonathan.  "Now aworthless cowards, had wepatiently'suffe-ed
Tuyithitik o;, for'gou said so. If you dnot all these wrongs without auiattempt to1mi-
thitike; you iust abi ieru'if and abject prove ofr condition. 'As men who refer
4heAperjC'er.                    '"death to     ervitude, h    gho'ihcourageously
1%    . ot here tu argue with you the for their sacred rights,' you can notrefuse tis
-de its ofinnoathlor word .' said Seron, some- yonu regard. 'Yet you defeld th&amp; conduct
what ir'itated.' . "i will 'hear 'you whatever 'of that Alcym1os? This is to me an indon-
1o ©haye totell me;;'but if jou wish to go, sistencf, indeed, a profound mystery."
begone."  Turning to Aleymos 'hecontin- ' ""I have either tihie no  inclination to
used iA You are undoubtedlya weary, you e pound' my poinione to you," said Sernil
maysetire and rest yourself,", Bowing pro- 'Do'your duty!"
. upndly. Aleymos left.  "'Why do you call  "I' am doing my duty all this time,"'said
that man a perjurer?" Seron asked.      Jonathan.' "i have come to'conviiie yeu,
-aIewas oup~prisoner at "fizpah" said that 'a'people will revolt, if oppression' be-
Jonathan, "we disniissed him-under an oath comes insuffera'le-that a spirit like theone
-thst h' would never fight against his own which 'pervades our' warriOrs, can 'not be
people. Ho' -violated the oath by whichhe rushed by military force, any more than the
,aged his life, for he was the captain 'of a hurricane can be arrested by spider webs.--
division in:thearmy oft-Apollonius."    No inonardh'has sficient ariniek to brave
"Absurdity, mere absurdity!" - Seron the conviction of a. people, or crush the
ejaculated. "Your people are outlawed, 'thoughts in the breast of a nation: 'We and
the King 'proscribed them as stubborn 'and our conceptions are an indivisible .unit."
incurable rebels; they are doomed to' the  " Therefore the King commanded to extei'-
swoid br'slavey. 'An oath swoiln to them minate you,"'said Seron. '
ean'be'hindiiig uponnone.'' "'But 'the last developements prove that .
S  uStill  respect this truce,'andare di's- this is'not 'so easy, and yuconscience must
posed to hear my propositions?-' Jonathan tell you that it is wrong,' said Jonathan.
tsked,stonished  "This appears to ne an : "My conscience is deaf and'dumb, I am
ifidne'itendy mystery. Allow me to sy, the executor of'miy King's will,"' said Se-
we are not outlawed, for we bow reverently ron. , "If you believe' fora moment you are
t'otIia° , nd Asiongas a people are loyal, victorious,' because you crushed the ariy of
none can Justly outla* them. The iing had Apollonius,:yo u are ,Mistaken;'df6r he was
noig htto Proscribe us forwising in rebel- no' warrior. I vili prove to you in a few
lioifter"dath or sl, ey oilithe onside days,dthat  i am capable of enfoi-Ding the will
and he bloody combat on the other are the of my iing."
alterna  es left us. HIie tweno heartsto  "It s true that Apolloniusva no warm
fel when wre'are-m9ltuhed and scorned? n ior, said .Jonathamn. "T'he man who in
4.v )e no pride, national feelings:to be cold blood slaughters defenseless  mon,'
qgqce4 by excessive w rongs c9nniitted on children and old men, who tortures and
us? If we are trampled under youfeet. butchers the peaceable and 'harmless peas-
mnst we not cry with pai, if :the  "oi-n ants, strides over the {dead and tramplson
algrugeandends under- the:trampling foot? the wounded'on the battlefield, 'a's h e" did,
Have we no wives, no phildren,no helplessnp'a can be no warfier.' Gbd smote hirn bytiie
rentsto-defend against violeoine and abuse, hand of Judah Maccabee. It is also true
ordoddlwe not love oe's" as well as' you 6do thatyotnuare ai reputed 'warriiora rqnoned
yu Are -our' ions 'aind oui reo1le- commiander. ' But forget not my' lord, 'Jeru-
tion's, our smraernisarthsa and domestic salem is in our Ticwer, we' will stitely take
eu'ches,'our language abid our traditions hiot it, ad fu 'nmay'besiege it for years. ' Beig
deepI'frooted in out sentiments; in the very in possessiodeof' the holy city ad-sta b-te
seweret: recesseSof our heartse? And 'above lishig the sacred rites in the" temple, or
all things is our God, our religipn, our sanc- lcry fof- help will iesotundin 'Egypt, Ethi6 1a
tu"dyfde'altar imdt our sacreddboon, our in- aid Gr'eece; beyond the desert, heyon'4
alienable treasure? Sir, as a man ~if valci Euphrates to the Caspian sea and the Gan-

THE' MA C CIBEES.                               S1
ges our voice will reach and-arm our breth-  "Tell me again,'-brother Siion,'hd6*-Mdst
i-er in our defence. You begin a war that thou arrange this matter?" Jitdah&amp; askd.
might lasta century; for you war-not against  " Simpfy thus;" said he. "We  tdoept-
the people of this country alone, you wage ed a inesselier ofPhilarches seit froii"Je-
active, hostility against the "religion of 'the rusaleni "to Seron; requesting hih"to" and
Hebrews, and all of them will ultimately immediate'succor to Jeriisalem, the exploit
rise in defense of their sacred, boon. You of brother Jonathan hving'ithrown thsiii in
war against Providence, against that divine -a.state  of dismay, and'they 'e tpect _ e ery
will which made us and gave us this con- moment. Having examfinedte mhesseiiger's
viction. This is an unprofitable war. Nei- documents, and after having extorted'fom
there you nor your King can bring it to an him all theypasswoi-ds, parols, countersigns
end. Therefore we think it might be better and docu nents, we took 'him 'into cti tdy,
to stop one moment this work of destruction; took his garmentsand doeunents, gavethem
grant us- ai armistice; that we may make to a prudent friend" of 'ours'and sent him
proper presentations to the King; for" we with the identical message to Seron. ItWas
'age war for the sakeof peace. 'Pause a- impossible for'him to discover the'fact."
few days, and let us send our deputation to  "Seren is too ninuh 6f a warrior to' be-
the King."                            Jieve'that we would shut oirselves'u in a
" I admire your eloquence," said Seron, city and expose the country to 'his'idy,"
"but I have no right and feel no inclination said Judah.
to grant you an armistice. The iing 'om-  "Still he did believe it," saidSimon, " and
wands and I obey. Because there is much ordered two thionand'men to Jerusalen, so
truth in what you say, this rebellion- must we have lessened  his forces.--But'T went
be crushed in its infancy, or it would out- even beyond this. I sent brother Jonathan
growthe King's power. I Will take proper to Seron, principally to makehin believe we
care, that you do- not take Jerusalem; still intend to-take Jerusalem.'6Yutkowthe
if you take it,"not one stone shall"remain eloquence of Jonathan! He 'will 'ertsinly,
upon the other. I will raze it to the ground succeed in directing Sron'e attention to the
within a short time. Your calculation is other points and places than' those'*enirust
false in this point. I Jt.:can  not the- least take.' Besides this instructed7Jonathan to
benefit you,'if you convince ,me of the jus ask'an-armistice of Seron."
tice of your cause; for 'my convictionn be-  "Brother Simon, this goes 'to far!Ju-
longs to the Kirg. Mark, young' 'an,a dah exclaimed,  .thou puttest us to shame
royal office- 'dare not'be himself, he is 'ths before;:our enemies who must consider us
King's. He bears tie dignity which the weak' and tired."
-     te        - -      Thatis-the very object Iwished to-gain,
King 'prissed- on hi m like; the geld "coin m. nh
said Simon.   I wished to direct his -atten-
mny hand; he is 'the bearer' of the' "Kg s .
dit a      .              o   .       ion in another direction, and'rock shin into
dignity and will.. I1ean-grant nothing. Go
-,sweet repose with the belief that-we are.too
to the King."          '               weak to attack'him. ' This;suite ure~aetly.i
Jonathan was done. -,He' and his friends  hp,"                     .
Thou: art.aa. .prudent,:man,: -said&amp;Judah,
were dismissed. Seron rejoiced over the "t
1:;~   ~        still foi a world Lwould, not app .ar meak
idea, that the rebels, suing for a suspension yabQdy. lfyvery(nature revoltsagmins
of hostilities, must have sustained consider=hady fwaesg
abllo  s n Betleem.Afer e    ehe  deof weakness,  oa .?e
abl-losses in "Bethlehem. After some re-  "The union,of confidence," strength - and
election he convoked his officers, and com-        .       .    -)
prudence,',said ,tmo   last6 met y.
manded them to' be'ready as early as pacti- prudence." -ai Siau, "
' c J e e By this time Jonathan a iivAd hthemp
cable                         and appeared belbre J udah Macpabeesto re-
tiiking-he'had'donehis whole duty, return- '"ot
ed to repose hiinself in the midst of luxurypothsuoes  ,     yihleusttc
and -pleasure.,                       the 'baugtyyi, thisi-te most      or
in the camp of Jpdah Maccabee his hr9th- exppegs the gp osioxl  98~~e  a
er 'Smon wag busy engaged in" conversa- an attagkfrQmi  .  WAu1      4  n
tion with the great chief.'           tion is directed. Two touad me     ~ aie
11


82                           THE   F
t, aoetl~re already. This is our time;
let us improve!it."
Atr Jonathan had communicated all he
new to Judah he determined upon sur-
pri isg 8eron..  efr gave the necessaryor-
ders, ck walking the tent inrapid strides he
s adely paused and, tar ing to Simon, he
said: "Brother,ithis is deception and false'-
hood. I hope    ow wilt never practice it
agin."'
"TheIeatl ens call it stratagem,"Simon
saidY smilingly, "and they are not a little
Proud upon their expeness .in deceiving
their pponett. Brother, we have proved
to them our uperiorityInbravery,,let us
also onvice them-of our superior intellect.
;'They boast uponieingGreeks in, whose es-
tiration all thewordisbarbrous; let us
convince themthat our race is their supe-
rior in understanding."
"Is deception there can be no honor,"
Judah rejoined, " although King Solomon
said, '  hon shalt carry on war with- cun-
"Asd Solomon was right," said Simon.-=
Tospare the precious, lives of the patriots,
stratagems .the best means. "
14Andwhat says adventurous Jonathan?"
Judah inquired:
Lc..say, defeat the enemy and drive him
from the country Nby eany means," was his
reply. {"lrothet imon's deception is not
half as low and miserable a scheme, as those
used by the: enemy toruin our people and
eradicate our name from the records of his-
tory. Those vile'hirelings-af arcl iel despot
-have recourse to the tost abominable means
o destroy us, leI us defeat themnwith their
own weapons. BrotlierJudah; I was again
in Jerusalem andagainI=have seen enough
tdoisgust 'even an Epicurean  We must
Puri,y this pastilenial atmosphere by any
means, valor, surprise, stratagem' or deaep-
tion. Call it as thou pleasedt, I call it the
meanas to resmiothe .inheritance of'Israel
frdm the -haide of a:ile, cruel and perni5
- iutenemy.
'%tdah k s.lip iid Joniathan i -aii-aa-
glo" sid imn, " but1Seron is an ol 'fox
.   austbo M         fgp   # 1dm to a5ii (,mt

lST    OFO
on Jerusalem, and we are right in his flank
Letus advance forthvwith and take advantage
of the absurd conclusions of the enemy.--
God has smitten him with blindness and
perversion of mind,:to deliver him into our
hands."
"I submit. to your wise council, broth.
ers,' said Judah; "but I prefer honesty to
stratagem. Our cause is just, why should
we not be victorious? Onward then: to bat-.
tle and-victory! You have.led the ox to the
slaughter. house and 1 will kill him. To
arms! To arms!" the war-like warrior
roared forth in thundering accents, " to arms,
for God and Israel!"
Many=oficers rushed into the tent of Judah
and told hin, the warriors were fatigued by
forced marches and perpetual combats, and
felt no desire.lo attack the enemy before'
they had a night's rest. The long hair of
Judah Maccabee like the lion's mane rose
slowly, his nostrils widened, his eyes rolled
in their sockets. "Cowards think Qf rest
before the enemy is beaten," he roared
forth. '"My banner! give me the-lion ban.
ner that I breathe fire and, inspiration into
the weary limbs.of :my warriors!" He clasp-
ed the banner, drew his sword and stepped
into the, midst of his drowsy warriors.-
"Rise, ye champions of Israel!" he thun-
dered through the camp, ".rise and fight for
God's; sanctuary, for our people's'liberty,
for Israel's independence!jCowards and
traitors sleep when their country bleeds and
criesfor help. - Whoever speaks of rest or
repose as long as an enemy roams over this
sacred soil, is a traitor, whom the Almighty
will smite in his anger. Rouse yourselves
from your undue lethargy and follow me to
battle and ictory!"'
The trumpets and cornets warbled in all
directions, the warriors dressed and armed
themselves, and russhed to their lines. The
Levites sounded;their i sparing sqngs, and
life, appearedo: _eturi iuto the weary limbs
ofh muitude. "eron is mighty war-
r or" one f. the o~cers exclanned, ."he
com mands a'ormidable army, ad we are
few and                             . ~e,  - K
" God is a mighty warrior" -3udah replied',
".aji the chanpm ~ o Rloim are a for-
iidalle  y    t ~et        Nffar or

to-him. Let those return in peace to their
wives and children,-who fearthe army of
Seron;those who are fearless, -like ,myself,'
who valueliberty. justice,,independence'and,
our sanctuary higher than life, letfthose fol
low me. instantly. I will lead them to bat-
tle and victory or to honor and death. Go
home, return to your tents ali who are weak
of heart. Follow ie, my lion companions
who smote the-host of Apollonius! Follow
me,'warriors of Matathia, to battle and vic-
tory!  '  , .
While the shouts of enthusiasm sounded-
through the camp, many of the recruits left
the :,camp to return ,to their homes.   ."s
every coward gone?" Judah asked indig-
nantly. "We follow thee through life and
death," the warriors exclaimed.
"Be ready then, comrades -to attack .Se-
ron," said Judah.  "This is tie time of
Gideon;, and the three hundred pen chosen
by the. Lord Will gpin 'tie:victory over Am-
mon's host. dome "onmy'brave comrades,
let us put to shame yonder cowards. We will
smite' Seron and his host, or die like men
who value, honor and freedom higher than,
the miserable existence of a coward and,
slave. Yonder is your desecrated sanctuary,
your -holy eity in the hands of the invader,
your sacred soil polluted by the overbearing'
foe. Yonder is submission, bondage and
shame, misery and tears; here 'is honor, glo.
ry, freedom or death. .With ne you prefer
the last. . A pillar of fire ourGod went be-
fore  s. from thedesert to thiq place, and we
consumed our enemies as the fire consumes-
the stable; he is with us yet, fear not, he'
leads us still to battle and, victory. Spirit
of Matathia, look down from heaven, and
thou shalt see wonders, how thy bold co-
panions will take the hights of Bethhoro
and rout Israe'enemies! Spirit of Jiata-
thia, lead us on,, on, to victory or death; we
would rather die on the field of honor than
live coward s and slaves. Liberty or death!
Followme comrades, to battle and victory! ''
Onward he marched with the waving ban-
ner followed b y the columns of his insured
warriors. Hills and crevices re-echoed the
powerful shouts of enthusiasm and the fiey
songof the Leites. Like tundr it1r--

I

88-

ken to their very roots, a4d the rocks seWm .
ed to tremble under the hea y stesgeof the
advancing patriots. "Silence!' ilencet li-
fence " iteounded throughithierang se"
Judah pointed to the enemy'swatchllres'.on
the eight of'Bethhoron.' 4 terrible silence'
ensued, so that one could hear the psI ita-t
tion of his neighbor's'heart Thus in pro=
found silence'thre'e collins marched to the
assault, and in a fe*uiinutes the enehy 'was
surprised and -a furious combat'ensued.-.
God protect the just!
CIHA5TER         IX.
TuE SA G EA BD T 'E MAIDEN,
Zeredah was' charmingly situated on the top'
of vine'crowned hill. Wellsi sun-ounded
with cypresses, and neat houses anmidluxun
rant foliage, gave the. town a ruritl nhot
while the fin buildings of the '.yagogte,
court and academy mnade''it a city. At a re-
tired "spot in the 'midst of a park of' 'lives
vine and 'other fruit and shade treek there
stood the house of Jose  en Joe er, simbl6e
and 'humble as its inmates, H re in the
shade of a group of cypresses on ' couch of
earth 'covered witi flowers and grass, we
find iphegine alone abd, cheerless. There
she sits and muses" over the past, the joys
and sorrows she experience the fleeting
hours of happiness and love, and the heavy
moments of disappoutment and afffietion
as they pass through the hmen' eat.-
Happy as she felt to be' released from. the
hands and presence of Aspasiareleaeed by
the hnds of him she loved best on earth,
she could not help weep many'a"teal former
deserted father and Jonathan who escze-
to abandon her. Death, she thought, was
not half as painful as life withgthe recollec-
tion of faithless friends. Death ts a fleeting
moment of pam disappointed love isnlong
and perpetual torment
Thehoary sage, Jose ben Joezer,iapproach-
ed Iphegne ".God bles thee, daug for of
lMenelaus, said he.  iTy countenanc' is
sad. Thy ees are veiled  ith' fe {jrs. If
thoi lovest'not this place I will odaon' the&amp;'
to atuother,
"Came no, en rmable nu er zl
mi lfoktand teara,' eaid ipig~

T H E MA OCABEIS.


son e : "tgue's seetes acenerie  which ofice of ;,igbpriestess x of. Venus;;tbut.o
96  E4LyI lpatpegwith Pny sope.had (learned the sinfulness oef ay,
ch1 lyearpig afterhome.    ooon, official position, than Ithrew-off the sacer-
peq',yr asin,, ill; be s happy as all the dotalrobe and girdle. And had I conscien-
gor   p p  pouned m  ' e."  tiously and. wilfully, like Jeroboam .,sinned
it?  ppipos  bides in:i od'sfree nature, before the Lord,.hadI, like Saul, slain all
in~i pe     prru ion 4wefl," said.Jose. the priests ,of Nob, the torments I suffered
SpGodpeaks tQ our harts, through in;the hands of Aspasia at the brink of
eve y         . ,bl~deof grassy _ each smt i eath msthaveappeased the offended Deity.
ling 1o6 or,., The wi d that  hippers :TinT e.conequence of ny error was. terrible
yonder   Igfpage h  ite" ngar gf theGod s offering and a thousand-fold repentancee-
of 'love. The starry sky oftfie solemnmid- Where then is the malady of which my ven-
hight hour brings tidings of grace to innb- erablesage speaks?"
cent hearts,iLearn tofunderstand those    ".know not," said,-Jose, somewhat ea-'
impressive pices, sand, thou.wilt soon be s bar a sed. "God looks into the heart, man
happy rathe shepherds are whose lutes ie sees theeye. God knows the secret thoughts
withStheenightingale inbeautifal melodies, ad  .i
Sand yomts ofbHaanthe                                 nian-pborn only
It ist solessydo~bhapp  if man.would not 'oes with his eyes and hears with his ears.
peror, oispnnaturg                     Ihave no knowledge of what the inmates of
O,.myyvnerable lrd, supSect ne notof
corruption," Iphegiie prayed "believe nqt those polluted temples do in which'thou
thatp  u'peasr       p    orothwast highpriestess. Eye-witnesses tell me.
that sin' itselfblushes with Shame, and
city o taches me to;the.house of my father!  .     f
Think  not ,blid,, to nature's beau yor abomination looks like chastity before the
That  e notbhadto naure sbeautyor
deafto the thousand voices divine and ui- demoralied and fallen beings who are the
pressivo which proclaim God's love and be- inmates of those temple '  Eye-witn sses
nignity, ButI ax; the only consolation of tell me, there human nature is butaled,
miyd    t    to  hom       os.e   n  beastly propensities assume the supreme
my. old" }father ,to,, whom I dare _.return, no
more. .ust 1 not weepwhen suddenly I sway, intellect and feeling are squandered at
was -beref t of''myate?"     "       ' the altar of the idol,' living and 'breathing
"Thy   father, unhppy   maiden," Jose skeletons return from 'those temples to tell
said, " thy'father is'"-=----.         the sad story of misspent life, crippled ener-
"My    her, and Iain his only daughter," gies, and untimely. deth. 1'know not thy
Iphegine interrupted, quickly  "o o ot malady, thou must know it best. Let me
spear 1ard of my father, I cpnot hear it!" tell the there are certain sns which repen-
"I honor this noble affection," said Jose, tanes can not heal. There are treasures
andshall never speak mor-e of 'thy father's which, lost one, 'are gone forever. Shall I
faults than isabsolutely necssaryfor thine name those treasures?"
own' salvation  The nedicamerits have a  "'Spare, spars an unhappy, affhlicted maid-
double effect' if the, patient "knowshe .takes end spare,' o spare a wounded, sore heart!'
them to esl a certain disease, and hopes 'oIphegine cried with an agonized soul.-
be thus cured. Thon-must know thy mala  tormentt me not with sue suspicions, and
dyS h''the i edicines Ipres ibe      '   ndin me not      sjforsns'° andincapable of
"Is it2 malady in   redah to love one's ;committing. But what do Isay? I defend'
own #$ ier" !Ipeglue  sled,  astbiished  mylf?  p, I shall 'defend' myself no
'On   e gr cp a-y it is dne of the niost more"
subm       a         19se. "TAy lovei isoses was surprised by the tone of Iphe-
nogge ~a~y~        vbQIspeath, the obe; kine' 'last words. There wds a pride 'and
dience tliou aixstowed on the evil' coun- determination in the 'sound of her" voice
seli~  h ftrr~x     tlA huosqeices to which donfuedithe 01d'sage.  "Thus ofrend-'
whqi e s ,jetiell le, is tl einlady ediinnocenice |spcakis it is t 'si
of: ..j .              j               '. biit'it is no less, tus that 'deinoralizationi

Tn Et MA;C0C AiB EE S'
amnot the master to' distinguish the ggene- rounded. by 4
ine from the assumed character. 'In my;left me. In
narrow closet then world was natural. HUear the no ility
me, daughter of Megelaus'diseases of the: this day I;an
heart mustfirst ;be known to 'the patient;if 'of Zions bes
a cure-should be effected,.f thou sayest of great men
thou art well, I can not cure thee."''  ' is virne's s±
"And is there a nam  inri this land that stand feagles
can cure the disease of my heart! '' she ex. thy narroW
claimed, "0, mention him, venerable man, not learned ti
I will kneel in the dust before him and kig  Theold m
his feet; Iwill 'he his' obedient child, his the words and
slave l will be. Great, sagacious man, are ed in his 'ears
there no incurable diseases?"           rebuke of ,th
" There are such," said Jose, "and espe- at hpr closely
eially those we would not confess to our-tenance betre
selves."'                     '        Painful suffer
i' do. 'confess my disease'to myself, she fended inno
said,"" I 'am thus aware of it,that it to 'and every fea
merits me all day, and' tortures me in the countenance,
dreams of night-                        ous old man
Canst thou name thy disease? "' Jose enliven 'so 1
asked.    k'through'looks
1 tcan, was the reply, disappointedte, features soro
deceived'betrayed love is the name of my hecould not s
disease. If thy heart is not as dry asthy it came out.,
beard is graythou must comprehend the terms who has
grief, the'pain, the unutterable affliction of tonie andthe
my heart. Ask'one no' more after the 'dis-
ease of muy hieait,' it is incurable."athna'
deals so, ofte
I understand thee no t,hapless maiden!"
and morbid s
said Jose. "Love dwells notin the heart of
T ~an' angel too Y
Venus' prestesses, and thou wast her high- to her 'most
priestess. Love is angel's greeting Seraph's knows not ho
salutation, heaven' FAmelody, the harmony of,  -n
..             t   ;,       Atan...hlmsel
the spheres, ad thou hast worshiped the he gives only
abominations of the Greeks. Lot is' h-
thou must k
mane and generous, and the priests of idols      -
' thy conscien(
are 'frivolous, 'cuel and bloodthirsty. Love y
is natural and frank, but the admxirers of shy sevewi st
heathentemples are artful, cunning and dis-
lvi         -         '    to thee. Iobe
tantt   isotove, It is passion ungratified,    -
evil prpetsities unassuaged., 0, ,bethink gre
thyself daughter of Menelaiu, thou hast  bey the be
not found he rih    am. forlhy isease."        for
structedte 'o
"tGreat man, crush not a little       trcean'
with thii e u just'susidn!" Iphegine nri.  "Formere
ed. "'It s a wothy of tlhgeo accuse me gine cr-ied, i
of singwieh ni~ke mc shuddler. Fial assumed .the
obedience and glial leit Mme astry a  nigt anhk
submit tQ  mbitidi ard Watheg srdo a   d   1   yvwx
ro'd'~ilsle "Still VreAin'ed faithtB  vnal r1i

evils pry guardian.angels=nve:
the dens, f crime I prgesgevd 5
of a ,daughter of A  opsend
as pure anid innocentasany
t daughters. Jt i theslprilega
to suspect the humble; bunt
olemnrright and,triumph to
s, 'before itstern judge,'. In
closet, learnedmanthout hast
hesecrets-of the female heart
anx felt perfectly, perpexd at
tone of iphegine which sodnd-
hlike offended virtue, like'the
e mortified .abgel. ,;He looked
,I and the:featuresof' herouni
eyed the emotions of. heriheart.
ring, pious resignation  nd of-'
ence charaeterised le  ooalak
ture of her beautiful-and;gieir
One moment itstruokthepik , z
that no corrupted soul uoeald'
beauteous  a :for  ,o  radiate
so-bright'and frank,'or'h rought
gular, exnet'io andtender, and'
speak.' Thehphmpiand blut
He spoke like themia of let-'
not learned the rules of "a good
respectdue to norbid hearts
of the world must't'liersn who
n with wounded cobsciences
entiments. ' " Either thou art
noble to reveal her 'whole soul
fervent adhiitersabecaus'esha'
w great she is," saidthe;  or
f has lent 'thee a nask which
to his moot debaled4Wd tes.
now :best which is wlbb' and
ce is thy highest reward aand
paniohnmeit. As for nyself, t
pear a'h rtless man of' letters
y the 'intruction otone woe
now better than-  rhai
he s  of  pne't  w ho  I  m   i1" ',
ny life: His nesers h-
f thy disease)a 'X     ..,
'Y'                   .
y' gske -proceed    t Ihe-
quietudc gf A  itina
ge4Jse, "Who instruetdA e
ap. Ipg    oc      Ap


T8E F
per  Spea, gbo  father let me'know 'ev.e-
ryithiejgthiisheet to say.
Tho i,I wn   woat I'was told of1thee,"'
said' Jd  " i        d only  ed to' add that Iwas
;requested to admonish thy heart to true re-
pentaice. "Wk toldine so, thou  iheit to
know; thy friend and mine, thysavior and
mine, Jnathaq ben 'Natathia, through his'
messengers whothro'ight 'thee hither."
Iphegine covered her' countenance with
both her hands and wept -loudly.   Jose
paused-'verylong before he 'asked hey:
'Daughter of Mez elai1s, why deepestt thout '
"I weep upon the ruinsof 'the proud'
castles of mInhopes," she' se id. '"I weep
becauselcau speak 'no more. 'God is my
judge  n4 he is merciful. Man is an unjust
end irng 'creoture.'4 ,pis favor lasts but a
short mnent'hs words are. deceitful, his
anget asuboundLess. Love isfa rose which
fblogoms lnthe morning, 'withers and dies
at non. Hatred, malice andlalsehdod ar'e
snan4 gliding itars   : amr'ndeceived
No" I    ndgrstand the 1humati heart and
noweI'despair.:. Jonathan, the slave of false.
hood and mankind is not a serpentile gener,
nation? He. ondemns Iphegine who was
ready to die forhim; wmst I not blame the.
Creator forlismaster-work? Guiltyin the
eyes of Jonrathan Ifeel no desire to appear,
innocent to man, .nan whom I despise 'and
pity.f hear' me prince eof ISrael, 1 am a
fallen woaiuand, allenwfrom the high tower of
gay hope, y.bove, my world-sunk from the
lofty  ainqpe f coidence in main;of kind
attachmon: to, wn. 1T have see: Aspasia
and her eat4re;, Apolloniue and his
despicable slaves, do than and: his false,?
hood, j,1 o  satisfied and wishs'to see no
more. ' am inde4 e      n woman."
A n u vw       p te soul,  se rea;n ph-
,einy.a t 4e earned: cOan asai hub
man i  , Js p x f ' hea sLaw.  Every  word  of
the I mttgmaiden pierced his heart..-'
He 'wept wit her. "Be not too hestyi, ay
noble aidn" s d he, "if I or Jonathan
wroneid thb6, forge nt that both imaiiy be
misiformed.' Hi iiessengers may have mis-
repress ted iig *ords tode; or othiers liay
have4460eiteddhim.: his is n e'aftribu-
latici  dWep not, deypair' n'64trast 'rr
God eiid thiainoenikkart :I potilee to
be t  ad vkt4    # 1~ il1 leise(iI/scer.
taltlW'fadtlh lt1ed' lie

IR   'OF'
cheerful,and hopeon. Time will solve the
riddle."
Jose was interrupted by the uncommon
'noise, shouting, yelling and hallooing 'that
was heard from all parts' of Zeredah. Men,
womdifa and children 'left their homes and
ran shouting and juniping through the
streets. It-appeared as though hilarity had
seized upon all, young and old, grave and
frivolous. "What means all this, my son?"
he asked aboy of '12to 13 years, who reeled
into 'the garden breathless and excited.
"The' messengerer---of the. Maccabees,"
he' stammered, "of the patriots-they come
-to 'thee. 0 dear, they come! Here they
cone! ' Seron's army 'is defeated. Seron is
killed. His army fled to Phelistia, Phoeni-
ciato the castles, to Syria fight hundred
of them are dead. The' land is free! Ju-
dah, Jonathan and Simon smote. the enemy.
Glory, glory, glory to the. patriots! Hete
they cdme.       -
Jose, fell upon his knees, and lifting up
his folded hands he exclainied, vehemently:
Just 'and kind' art thou, God of Israel,
Lord 'of truth. Now thly servant is ready
to die' after I have lived to see that thou art
again graeidusly' ielined to thy 'peop e.-
Lord o 'Hosts, how shall I thank thee for
this glorious tidings? I an unworthy of
this great. day, of. all the ,nercy thou hast
bestowed again tpon' thy deserted servants
who trtst in thee and wait for thy salvation.
Roek of Israel, incine 'thine ear to. my
thanksgiving that thou hast saved ine from
death to'hear this message pf thy salvation."
Slowly theold man went into'the'house to
receive the messengers of Judah Macabe&amp;,
The enthusiasm of the boy was 'a'ddenyi
gone.' He looked' at Tihegine and she sat
apparently indifferent te allthings about
her, and wept, 'Weepnhot, fair, Iphegine,"
the boy implored. "Be happy and look
cheerful. But, if 'thonrdislike  this place I
will lead thee to any 'thu wishest."
The artless sympathy of the bor did  ot
miss 'its aim. Iphegie 'looked at himn and
on recogmnm 'smhe extended her hand,
whijih the youth eagery Erspd.' "er-
son, mygod:frieid," she 'sai4"hori art
th~n Nono eatfr'~yih .s        at iz
"4I'iieterel. 'sympathiseiwitlh the,
Mid 'e te h%%     i Ogeer6  $$sii

THE.. MAC C         EES.                          S"
my heart, and this is tourchasgehsppiness sions of the boy made he hu   ~.oQne
forsthee by, the last ,Irop of  y blood.,- undecided moment, one minute; iapess
peak, eogmnanud, fair ,lphegine, wat shall passeand Iphegine ;quickly resolved, drew
I what gan Ido.to make thee happy "     te boy to a sett at her side, a dIngatone
"Love me as 'thou jovest thy sister," Iph- truly sister-like she communicated the whole
engine answeredd. "Gerson,,be my brother, history of sher love and her sufferings to the
my friend, btat~ my heart b~e not consumed inquisitive boy.
by the fiane of glopng and unlavished af-
'fections.                ,,°AIl              r   e ad reare the eritemeutrap-
"1 have no sister still I loye it said increasedd and roared forth its current
of enthusiasm. _Like a heaving sea the tide
Gersorr, fer vently. Thou canst not ble ny.
e.o  f     .                        of-joy ran always higher and the denmonstra-
sister, for thy parents are not inme, still 'I
tiors o                         f iated minds grew 'louder= ith
love thee. I flee thy presence to yearn after
t  R, ~eve ry passing moment; still Gerson satqbniet
thee, and I seek thee to fee the" again.- v  p     g      n     l    se
When    see thee imy heart  beats violentlyand silent'and listened attentively to lhe-
y y    Y 4 ~  , ygie'a;sad story. "'Now 11neow  what4 can
and ny cheeks glow in rosy hue, myZ ipsca
are closed, my tongue is par lyzed, not-do 'forthee,' theboy cried,' assionately,
withstanding my firm determinatin mthy whenshe-had 'finished her:story,-"I-will
avene teeI wlleonvice liewotdho
absence, to :ell thee ever so many pleasant avenge thee, I will convince the world of
things. I mourn when thou. art not with
m', and I weep when thy liy - hain   a '   "Thither he run, there, therehe must
with my black tresses. Know not why be," voicesWere heard, savagely ryig.-
thus I am changed. If this is a brother's At this'moment the dor of the garden was
love, I never had a brother or sister-then f forced open, and ariragged, abjectr 1didual
lov theeas the brother loves his sister- with a dagger in"his hand rshed in.' 'On
f     .                               de       T  i  ' eas ethe ra  cid:4"Ar
But 0, this is happy misery and a  retch. descryng p egi  e'sranger crie  rt
ed happiness. I wish, to rouse myself from thou it, serpent? '.h  shafl l be miy von-
my dreana and I can not; I thirst after great geance on accursed Jonaathan, thou  lalt
actions but have no courage to performu them. die with me!" Hie attacked her so sudden-
- that hcudd" c
I golilgquize, sigh, speak to tie owners, ad- ly tht-he coul drnmore than srieam;
dress the murmuring rivulet, and find sais- butter voice was 'drowned by th' ioise out-
faction no where. If thi is brotbterly love; side the garden  Gerson  quick as a serpent
I love thee with every fiber of my heart and grasped:'the'dagger with his 'hand and, not-
only wish to see thee happy, cheerful, sini- withstanding the bloody flowing from his
lhiand con"teyt.'                      wounded bnhnd; wrestled and shuffled with
Iphegne I tene&amp; with surprise to the the enraged man until phegine saceeded
boy's ferven 'eloquence. His ardent aec- in throwing him down and her rigs ,ttract-
tons appeared to her like a'eeaconl lghtin ed soverl men wh9, came o herespze 4is-
the d nk 'ghtion aIife without love, while armed and'held the;r gpg1  an
his passionate agents and gestures 'fright-t  phemeine ,avin regained ;her presence
ened her.' 861 sho grasped aitd clasped his of mmd so 'far that se  ld leoo ' the
hand and could not relinquish'it when the' man, uttered a shrill  'eam  It wascy-
agitated boy covered her hands-with kisses 1nos with distracted !features,' h$ Tlethes
an   ers. 'The heart mst love human be siled with bloed ard dvt the  a:osoing
s, aii~lns, aes, rocks ad mine ras from hi mouth and widly gnaslng his
even-it must love. '   mighty ideedis teth      "h do you premifom kill-
the nnwer 'of gehiiia ande'treaetion   nthedaught   r of  enlaust"   e  ied
that they nesantly egne      lrfeehyugs le l; jpmxst ~o ypotet Ahe serpent an-
lddtea  s p~ taoyr ~par~~               agh en o~ Xelaus!"all ex-
of s0                pt56j to~an~cai~e~wt                         ~W~     ru


erllllll'em '6th!" diffem'en't parties 'fui
i   sly rieI:  "You 'shallt"nokill her 'as
'As"I live''+ theh'bo5*cied; interposin
hifnelf'between Iphiegine aid the rapidly
growing' cr9Yd:
Pfread' iy, way through.the enemy,
went over mountains without food 'or gide.
to find the lewd 'highpriestessof"dVenus, the'
enemy of Ronr people,"' Alymos enxlainxed;
"why do you protect'her and' perse'utme ?
'I'.am a sinner' before the 'Lord' because 'i
wasta servant of Antiochus and Apolionius;
'butiod:has emittei him, anid -Iam-Li re-
panting sinner.; I have sworn' a terrible
S oth;tolill the enemies of lsrael-at tire risk
of ;ng ow nife.: Here } ain'ready 'to-die,
but first I must dispatch, yonder wehmeh to.
Apollonitra and Seron,.
Again he advanced on iphegine but  the
boy had. seized aistone an4 strunk Alcymros
vently9n, the head, so that, he: staggered
Thpen ie.crled; " Jose ben Joezer, help, help,.
.urderore. ave in thine own house!" 'But
his vicewas tpo feeble to reach, the' ear of
,thpl   an,  " Who is the' dastardly cow-
ard that he care sprile a pan and warrior?"
eev4    tof.e nte titudeocried ."None
shll die tody, this is a day pf glorious ti-
dings!'' others exclaimed. "Killhiinkill
her!  ill'the.boy! They are all tVaitors!"
and 'sinilar exclama ions soinded furiously
froml the nlid8tof the agitatedorowd
T Iitil E  "3 A S s' A DT o  '
Jose beri .Joezg r received' the d p0t"e of 'the
Asionjan heroes With niarked distinctioin
&amp;nd+veiwbelming joy -mode, 's-,
sengers of the patriots '"of sra', e  dcome,'
in th name of the Most Hight  saidhe,' on
entenni the apartment where tihe essen
ker opeted' him:
Iehlzar fnd Judah, the sois of 'ata-
th ia,  dtietherheroesiand iariots, of
Israietwho mo ed 'their loins' for ffed on
andindepende ide bidthee allhail, glorious
prine,"'said' thO npakesmtrirof the depta''
theentht jaeffmypleasing d~ty tWinformi
thei tthe Lord hiisasititim th e nme
offa    lg  yle~b          Ai pollonitis
and Si,' are 'gomiothir amies are
' ~trW ' heffpot?% *1    11s6wilo ptof

and shielded 'Judah Maccabees 'the grea the.
r, swings the sword' of 'Apollonius, and
Jonathan  arries now the 'sword and henet
of. Beroi.  The "tord 6f 'Hosts again was
with us Ond1lessed btir arms; Israel's spirit,
dormant forfour eenturiesis ioused again
to i'agnaliimous emnulatioiand' glorious ex-
ploits.'=Miay the Lnd ef battle'thus r ien a
.with. us until this' land :shall be free as in
'days of yore."
"Amen Amen Selah," said the old pince.
'.raise to the Majesty on high'who has, re-
turned in his grace to the myriads of Israel
Glory to,°hdah Maecabee, his brothers, and
therest of the lieroes and patriots f-Israel
who exposed their. lives t the arrows of
death to smite our enemies andrescpe our
heritage from the grasp of the bloodthirsty
foes!   11eIl me, --y beloved brethi'se how
many of 'he enemy fell in the battle of
Bethoron?"
About eight hundred,"',aid the spokes.
man. "Like a hurricane, the 'accabee
and, hisbrothers Jonathan and S6moh 'fell
on the eieiemy, and the warriors of the Lord
following their eiample.fonght a'the iioness
does if'danger threateis her whelps. There'
isa courage in ourwarriors, anjispiration,
amagnunimous Boldness, hichfearsieither
danger nor death,iturns 'the dwarf into a
forixidable giant, the coward' into a' lion,
remoV s every obstacle andsurmouts every
'diffiulty. Like the Andkim 6f old-they ap-
pear to aproot mountainsus  hmr4tmi at
the, enemy,, Thus they drove the Syrians
and their wicked allies from every 'ortilied

Tn p   MAOOCAB E     S. 
They know the sufferings and ai ctizxot reliableiauthorities tat a aunyas24±
oi brethren in the cities occupied bythe npiiie at sgrigegf tja4 fup
eney stillthey cynothelp hem now -  bthegr~asury. 'heinriumse1f:Lt  _
Not pIldGlonit Mpab, Ammon and ,the  f af  of his arn: go s tPera o    eo
Ptiligt gieatep:us.With invasions but the;ppopl to diep . Lts, tlg
many   o; o  warriors return t6 their hiiges wick~d _angfayg, appointed reg
to  reap.  ph f ruit  eft e  field,  as  this  is  the  al p o inees  frn the .npp.ed aep
tieeeof hrvest, apd the. captains can net erpof Egypt. Heis charged Nepg ~4h
preteithenl without exposing the land'to duty of sending fifty thgisa an  en
destitutin and.famie. Thus it is ;quite cogstry, sag all the eitiesitohe  rQi :d,
natural to Expgetthat'a argerarmy of Syri-. kill or sell every soul inIsrael w    aw
ans williyade our, country, atteni-pt -unite obedience, andcoloizeatheai  i tile t
and support our enemies in. our.ni lst and;Ihe orders are.to extinga shen peltp a-
all round .about;us, before we will be ready tion, lagnage, religion, lawsetns!hab.
to  ee thgminfor.                      its, nay every trace or rygrk of~ eaql1'
oWneedrespites the 9pin'Q4  Q     Pa+?irtricken thy ,p ale'pase  agg-
whose 4tmnetzinsfired 'by the xjor ,*  mont, thenhe continued' Byi  appoin
the spokesman continued. "But we heard' pomy, governojr,ofelos riga;  bieh
from: Berothat thein og receiving the command offlthat egpediorx 1gtie
news "f lis.d featsaturned almost a mad- son of:Pt oc os ga  Gorgi the ' perigge d.
man' He raged against .most sincere strategian andtatei n  llgging
friends and  qostdevout servants.  is pr ,first army, consIstigof.20,00Qoa96
en position is quitoprecarios  In;Persia, 00horse beside those who will 1fo ltwi
the .people reise to pay tribute and drove from  amar          oaI Bdoan
h k'end'.fri
ts, king a  rs anare sromersepo- Philistine, The second ar
h, on aceou  of his encroachments .upon  s the first ip t foilpW  m4 ate  Q er
th rightslberties andgreligionof -the per- under the conita!gl of Ptoleny  f
sians.  9 r    thren  everywhereinthe  ehg m  rd4nlytlssepa
lands of their dispersion agitate 'ebellior, great strqgge is ejrnsgloriousyende  e
against the mad king, and persniatdoYtheir danger- mo n-ain.highehe      o
neighbors to'withhold' tribute 'and"tales'combats:b vnnow.e
frQmth royal ,r ,. iptian death of Israel, are the 'altpxnat ins"
war, the k ' inane. luxury and'e ssive thheroicsos g        jttare o.good
pompnzgede ed  ri, teasur',   Es'v te  roiag  par oQf)&amp;atatheao   of rood
want o~ f:imi ,riYes'iNH'~ eti th te corg    bji4~f         ~     4
want  ii ds ive h ~to desperate mea ng ,. idt heprhes   VvnMA
sures to6enforce obedieneeand collect the a d  p                   p
tributes and taxes  'all these e mbrasstepite, as long as possible  No i Y "  c~n 're
meie may ay  aded thefact that' the kige  te    t e k                Jqbiae;
front the reign uo is-father oweyet.two muc        miht eyi  .le           y
thousand tadkts to the Nomans, whd  r        a                        n   p
en wi   n     ib     this det pbsnotPid rulers, therefore, appoint thee y ble
Ei~e eiit~Y°or            Y_ 4awar-n lord and prince, under' ther' on-pf ~d
the Roman    His  recent a aa  noe  r4 iu  i     . to.o r oP .,Yd
,  _ ,N     T~; ,Iif~d=i t  v  fl  a    t  6  e tuca    a emba    e  d
he.ir                        01ferati4lede insa  hlevo that hii"t! si 0,co s9i6xs4a t b!eust'A'
he~n rwU # f rtl'a ti.  I~ nj ~v 4 h 2 to'c'esi 1,0"' f{ fi g
treashipyis in sancheba.ndfitien    bth dik p6 i' 4' r he t.n     Ba '
au4 deohrd'etions onlyrean sti#4thta frbiig  f       ti ai            Ma
ban     cy,:if heioeod iuketiloteI,.xb" d ,,. t   xsdi
wllH leAodlate Thett      i fgr oi 4  l    vifed b  h  $A    n
otat'    chlbagabi'~ l%  fre' we cmile 1$ eady to enter upon izrw in, nd
esge  kheishei                                  of n1 ofdh  [ithilie ufsg


a   ready I am to diminish it a
4    a'ffiemunble pawae.'"'
.   antie1!1Iea ba, Jtdh
$  f14  henGiajafni srtuds ai
df9f  pe lke, I Iiae but oe '
b1 M, aid this 'is to sedi the 'i
eel 6   4%' fel'h hly' do~noed'1
fidt cihe gpeirts place i;e,I
'                  toilf nde  deserve i
fa1Iy* theb  yisectations of a 'hu
r'"  } lpi 'hll  'ielp, father J
bob G'i'son 'eried, ehemently,
ber Fdo m~c~Psjak'iheykill
thedosie 4ving'been opener
anditaonfuiiiitside was heard
Jose betaJszeir 'Zastened into t
wherethe 'i4itated'idnultitude' 's
I 'hIeatd Aicynios,°' the 'o
pea ad itrieable.2Every ones
ed hallobd and threa Briedn'a
pearedfe o;sten eke' poorpal
fei  iinphegine, ho;i w itut ye
at8w i% looked apparently'indiffe
th4n tnd; ierson'abonte'er '
abesiguation in her looks,, a su
prfted iu hr 'oufnt'Ioe 'thdi
the agit ed tittidefroni killin
withitad ing ;the infiamnftorf
4If      o  a N 'Joaseben Joder
the nide of thanks ted Munlti'tide
aito yn bethren?'rJose''ngnii
do' yo t i'ik'rso loth, whea'  joy
'"Shis     o theedrghtr 'of M~n
th+ high  ieisu   dt i  be
s   1nt d(sifre6zainied : and
1d 5 'i4in5 s A&amp;nd ,hio8lalt} b
V1bdfruntib hmidsL.
' ThiIholfLtitw'odairsuto'blot
edue   tsi iiirdstialnesiffrm our
Jote'; A'God 'alone 'will punish
a     i sinnoi.' k.  no.mor, si
4 ,_1 e  sinners  are  no  m ore, si

shouldxediea' did Aq4J I8 1
lear taX4 , u ,}  opi~r Y,  sjYehr
gil

TuE. Fills?     o
S much as judge and where are the witnesses to testify
V ba i{   agansthe=r?"                   r
9M   6bea     He'reihero is a witness;' several o
ud p ti(ts 'them cried simui iitaneou, p ithi toAl-
rish i' my cinos. On'recognizieg himn   sescrcely
anseo-of'ngtrusting bis eyes, examined:AX'y has ith
by the 6«i piercing looks.  "I amp Alcymalsideed,
and it shail thesame Alcymos," saighef "Wao
IQ'; satisfy'dered'to lead 'thee, venerable pince, to'Goi!
biblee "elf'gotha. I am the 'sime Aleyinti h was
6se!' the then desperatelyf' wiked° and abomlinably
" they kill"uigodly..-J3Rit I was then captured, led
Ihe."    ,a    to Mipah,' and' there I was conniand-
d thenoise ed to 'rar a solemnn oath never 'again to
distixietlf. fiht  inet miy own' eoyle.' I gavn the'
Shegarden promise and swore the solemn oath, because
(trrouinded the priests, assurN rie, repentance or sin
fusion ap and"returifingt-God and virtue.eradioate
spoke, yell- all Sins from the book oferei'lasting mem-
1 none ap- oial. 'ince theni 9I'wandered''about the
le 'and suf- country a repenting'beggar, a wrethd esin
ntuimg an ner, like Cainra fugitive and a vagabond
rent on all driven about by the' consciousness o  ny
There 'as  sing, even as the wind drives-about: thdry
offering ep leaf. Prince or Israel, is there" no mercy
pr'etentod in heaven, and no kindness "on eaith for a,
gher, not' miserable, wretched and penitent dinner?
word'of If  eieis, it'ist be' ine, 'r  suffered
stepped  intensely;'i' there  riinot I' preparedaud
" "4What wish toidie.'
rod, "wh' ' "Godith      4 judge, ,Alernos I amnot'
3d dhappi  s' solemnIy admonished.. "Hadst hout
been the appointed excditioner of any other
ela4, and man i nIsrael, r woud'be harih' ginst
veral ien thee nid mistrust thy repenitace.' Bitt as
L the holy thou w"it ny enemy,, fforgive thee.Go
lot ut the hence erxd appease the eiftythou hast ofend-
ed 'so 6ft 1. Go,'and, f thou art an honest
'ogt 'Wiker 'an join r       th   i    15I
t ot  e  'andj inthe ranks of theasons of l atat ia,.;
itt " aid  Ndithe' enemies ot fthypeople randthy
he wieki k country.   command thee, be gone nd re-
turino i-,ore except in the midst of tk&amp;4rd
nfuliess i to9 o~upatriots.
-o                   9 nhe  nehen ws y
e, o  th  . . iex;weh Y 'nogwitness ao 'aist yqinIr,
ene aus wonun  on 9on e maltitude oeer ted
ihl e   ~    nedinesgodemns nonge,-said Joser
our ae'4 At     g erre: witnesses bares reqiihed 4to
sh2p9%0,a? rptoehtg   of' t1edelinuetrt. I tel~ou
shaioidisee thfrwitnia presnothing4Alcynosiepbe
svighednyse gonne Igj@xikeito the retth g thye
1thephe ,lrgibegoeggr4'tangetkhpi-

THE     MAOPCA rinS.          'a;.p
4s direct thtysteps tl  'thu.              e  adyggd        e q
erdsa this wman I}ust;ay; Shfe was y' "then she  el ewo Ange     A"gWW
entrustd~tQmy' care byJonathan ben Ma- QErson's .vehement; ao 4swere hj
tathia;therefor9no onp sha l daregto molest p0ereng. " dShe ies, {help, O9, eiA,
her. =o" and rejoice 'ovdx, he vioy Qo4 4ifes,' ;heried,.while th  4 4 p  agakregh
has re ted toIriel9oer it enemies. NoSn'pe er  i reeoratvee e      i    gb
shall die to-da. for^this, is aday of glory s ending  use.p y Has intense ng
.and joy, 'G nd rejoice."               broka  he heat?' the ldimaui      ed ,
"The taw of Moses must be 'enforced,' when' his means would not restere66at_' -
agajn.a 'voice was beard vociferatipg from 'N  she-gmnst not, sheoshpllnot die/ er-
the midst fi multitude. "The idolatrous sO Lomnented and.wet'her pale dcuntenanbe
wo an shall ie."                      with this hot' tearsr ,'' father Jose, Ishe
I}L             vas         breathes,  herrbosom hesyss 'the bejt eriedi
Thou comest too late, she was but is no bheserysm loves     tenimaedt
longer an'idolatrous woman,"'said Jose.
fh      .canst briti one. witness that she breanking heard;, behold she openpsher eyes
,     o'carist"brig on,{ites tia sh'       se      eloy+ ddlTphegiris  whttv all,
w s; ican  bring'anbther that she is no  more;:   shpe.an Id o le i piegie  w,'d r
Shesabandoned idolatry in Jerusalem, stoodt
at .the brinkof death;was rescued'by .Jona-  d, fWin'e. n  Attyoha was it'-.heaskI
than' ben' Matatbia at-the',risk of' his own ed, fainty '{Js pitfou4'}yes,=it is4o;I
lif.. IheisnOi      know you, Iamino 'atliac. D'speak};look
lihfe.s ; .he is: no. lnger, an idolatrous womotan,'n1
she is a pure daughter of irael, the ci not pitifully on me am Imad'   '
'9'                  No0  mydaughterthou ,attnvonad
of 'Aaron.  Go, ye  men, and  say  no,  or  ose -sai d o igter  Thu er kleo sitfd,
go sand ;iejeiee over.the 'victory'of ;Judah
Macealee over the enemies 'of Israel."  dit;of'-yonder'ruthless;menappalled" t e
-   for.,adn oment., :Bec 1lan d tiron*i s oo1
Some-"shouting,;t'                leumn ' f r  omn.'Beclmadthi        "it~
Sme  'shodeaing  in    u   ring,'  ef  recover  'Rise  and 'drink from  'youpC  It
hIpheg ne'with her bne- willrefresh a             invigrate thee:" '
factors. =The boy Gerso 'rejoiAed loudly  "Poison, kind man ,;'each me poison,'
while Jose looked ldng'og Iphegine  etxpect- e liveno longer 'sheacrie  ehemaetly
ing'her to say something, but she -baserived "lcan 'not live-to be the scorn ofall r an
profound'silence. Pale and unconcerned object of'pity-to'the least of them Ian
she ioked'to the ground and was silent-= nat live ever t.&amp;rernenberfaithlesalove and
Has Jphegine' nothing'to say?" he'slowly a mounin fater, todie every 4#aya
asked.  " Nothing," was the, monotonous eyery moment of ;life., cannott , ivearg
reply, "nothing to please a human heart.- vir',"a   fh fe.play   anoftulat, veppb -
Dry and ded .is my Kikayon,,the parching .aIboljet of Iaeglte , pityor sceqno'n Hy. Ia
rays 9fenragedmisfortune pourdownerr   egy w    ilmeI. udorfeegedeg g
cilesslyFu_ on i weak heart,,  3   m  a   t% wiet el  a  i feeear}too er
teas              '-n  e  ha    gnm      rdto, pini'en thief ha~aking heavy +Giy-
teas  e      p,t  ifuntainis destroy- me 'poisou that,  ds hipees   "n'
ed. L agve ,o say not inbesides the -   fiSiffarafthy woas,- hapless  d  r',
wisha odtho   bast saved mylfe, when,'said Jos;     ilt then die fo fe r  iof Aife?
wis to ie.     y should.I wish to live? or wilt thou subit to the vage ie saesf
y their     t Im Ldare see him no an unhappy      dayp-eAayse thour hpsf seen
Mo .    n   a estimation of mypeoplesm;hndreds o;y        p   p
a, coman, ga  ied ,anf  ebased  pyn o     us)  to, dread the Rfuy e a s.
wh   old      Venus. Jonathan abandon= Peen is ugi eathepast ?     tothe ,,  e .
(d in'ie Weloe and esteerkiue nre1 th      htN condeguis tiee not Ie~pe
lN''i tdrue    Ead $$ai', why didetter and heed no ther'             A it~i~


THE     FIST    OF
wdarest thou despair of the goodness of steps and twill do whatsoever .thou sayest.
E49 wh    Md'   in.' d snghaie t6 iefies' 'May God forgiF iy fu her, may heQhield
t     e ;ld' and pglenis  the earth  Waat and guard' onathan, I shall rinmrmur no
the k'om  nothing tit meitis tli'me i osf rnare."1
tuIanton? What hast thin done to d+- "" 'Thefarewsll, my gpod daughter " said
' g  nd h piris of thy pst lifeos', deeply 'dved'  Aceptr y'blessing.
i  # d t aga       God, tGd, woman-bornMy God riviorate thyheart and enliighten
ts$1e;in piou   i'esia ion, ad"'i"th thy:mind.°.Two' of my seinvetshal' go
h Oibi 'atiehee "b ai  the honi 6frialand with thee to my sister. Farewell.'Pray
wai .for his med.'          '''          and hope." o  ysitr.Freel.           a
ihegisgraspad'his hand in mute recog-  Jose returned to the deputies. Iphegine
eiinofbhis imupressitewordse He contin  6veied her eyes with'her hands and pain-
ned, aftr a' gonsiderable pause. "'1 mest fully exclaimed, "And so must I go again to
lea e th"i' pase'before sunset. Ican 'prO strangers, alone,.all alone."
t+et thee nodenger ,Here thou art not safe  "Not,_alone, said Gerson, "I shpll go
n accduntfOf the batted the people bear with thee. - I shall be thy guide, thy=f '.nd,.
sgahst -fthy' father., Where 'yonder blue. thyservant, I shall be thy'shado1 hat-
hillU "athe skies :thereon the Pmountains over love can invent or imiine that shall
ofdsherthere aysister4dellsalone with bemy fie to do for;thee,dearest Iphegine.
her' daughterr. She is aious, kindand I ill wreathe thybrowswith 'fresh fidwes;
hlnaaneY.matton. Thither '1 will send thee; thyouch shall be graced.wjth'roses- violets
there, the"bands of thy eneniles WilH not ad evergreen; thy room shall'befilledwith
rechthee, there peace and virtue dwell in merrily singing birds; lanbkins wite as
seTl'a*yy  leys,"on light crowned hills." :I snowshll dance abdat thee and bleat _er,
wilt szadher word that thou art de edted by rily; I will do everything to see 'thee happy
all thisd :lovest, and site will lie a mother to and smiles I did before I saw thee.,'
the    Therethou must not be the daughter  Ipeginsdoved b  e lsa tee.
, .p-ei oed   4 e backitrsses "from,
of Menelaus; forhlg 'wikeddess wouldbring the' white forehead of the eloquent-boy and
thee e iefnles everyhere; he the daughter imprinted' a long aks on it. "Yesm  n y boy,
et anmunknown -individual. 'Thei-e -thoui thousalt he the solitary) twinkling st~lr'i
est? not beIphegine,.thi is an obnoxidus  y ;nocturnal sky  thou shalt -lead ne over
name oftoir eremyies, Sarah'shall be th  the ougged8tony path of a joyless life.. I
ame: ".Alo Sarah was the dauightero a  wl trust in thee, and love the as my broth-
id latrotus father, still she was pitru uaother e   ;
Sarah. . 'be thou 'also.' 'Learn 'tliereto live .--           -
hap i,:far'firo niundb pomp. ai d corrup       C H A P T' E E  X X I.,
tiaa;d learn'",thers'tod loe thy Id arid thy '  'WI ED S 0HE MJS.
neighbor' addonfide-in the' goodness of IIa the paladcef 'the ighpriest, Phila ilips
?rovidece#  t"will h 1d thy cause befoa dand Mnelaus sit together counseling each
JTonathan and thy people, th ou gled it befor othe'what to d'o'ext  "The de fiatg  Se-.
th   'd."                               rdn is saektraordinar' and unexpected an
"Plid~tu~ God of' inerey, pardon thy-wick event," said Phili'dhes/""that I c~r'hardly
ed ehl!foite ine, od 'and 'geriekus adebuntgfdr it; for~er6E *ds ' "r og
man! ''a de eelaimedwarib ys on 'he stetician ind in coinrdiand of '  lliscipli
chgakS." :  * 'Tiejl how wicked  was.  ried armny. JudahM acabbe;,s Id  orst ene-
B6Td             'migf'looked intO 'the very eyes of mis  must aknosl"dge lt, is 'g ai-
deathds on dert       ,g'hehgthe   ourmoatf o.  rappily we huae rescued t#s  linsned
# cthfa l/si  D    t thip i as to  meif' thatnoblear'iy'to de e  ea
iamhtao nmci edby Alloytos, Once myd  i." b'   '                     di'c'
pnd     u a  ord ar mp            "f Lysiasisiot cry fast ihis peds
den 4ted  r 'b  y f dith' r  eiF  d  1naudnedy   tione  sre ltfter alg,"said tiseatw r
Joa0iA'wdn    r t@o"e'lc  ifdoverpered{tr theJ 1=daecaee saeesived yfas
zb#e.~  rl *fedil~e,M'eierble prnes,1 ooesn '9 : his$ poe. Notip~i
wilt      bthtse    r    zohdirectest m  w(r11 'eissiini fro a  tacfgersy-

THE MAGVABEE~S.
le" is very moment, and if he does, w~ rests, is the duty of the strong to p te  5 e(
e  hai I qipseefectually the i petuou we k.
k.                                         In.war all denies and Gig hs esJ.sai
e  ill'not venture an attack on this Philarcles, "to 1il or be iled ie'l e
dity,'"  si Fhilarehes, "  it he should law left."
AL qi t4016   u ie ' a   ishel of defence:  "To  e ,nem  all obli atins may cease
which Ic would instantly et in operation.- in a. state of warfare, saidenelau iid
The Asnoneans are  riots who love every also this has its limits; butthose oldeop
sc fff their people, also the, traitor, and and babes are your friends.
studiously avoid .he lestctiou bf anyper  Let us enot quarrel, any divne
son in israel, as they name it. If they ad Phiiches, stmilingly  o       e
should  attackthe city  1  would  tie  the  hands  ta ly necessary.  ITelie e 'Ly siaa  .i n
and eetof every Hebrew'within these gates timesen ad anarmy suint crh     s
'r, 'wdmenad"children, and plaoe.themrebellion, still I must beg you not4 'or-
upon the walls attacked  drd'h eiate to'd - et thatd must lild this itf
str  everg person'if the warriors approach letit cost ten thousand lives:  Txcue ntime
he e wal. 'his      ould b e sufficient to w.e shall certainly agr e on ,popr plai  :
le     w   .the ae a proper'4istance fro'i he neldefnce. Now let me as  ou :  d ou
waft"  ;    '   r     ;  '       ''lear 'the whereabouts ofyouda
;aenats was not altogether 'ieasedat  "Niot a: word, none, of  y ee gen
this hellish scheme.  "The friends'f'eths  eeded in finding the les a,,
king     e they alone inhabittis'ity now,", said Meielaus, with &amp; despe {. $
said he "should be si red 'against euyeh  "Your messengers did notentrein
treatment                           . 'Arebellious regions, and only tf she fan.
" Only old people and children will be be,' said' Philarches. ' 1 Aspaar eshy
used fort'that' purpose " said Philarches, believes she knows where lphpgiem emie
"thatno actual harm be doie us in case foundA m* g tosee Rpas            m
th   y M)lccabees would not spare thetnw  Old. lord deir es to hear her on thipoint, ii
peepls ad children are of no particular announce your visit. '  '
benaft tDou'so,' my lord," Meneia \s id, "c                                  y
Never shall Isubmitto such treatment,  although lhae  y do  tle   Aia
Menier ejac   ted, i di '  ntl   i "It i krWs more than  y nessengers.
the  tyofm n     ot    theolid, the feeble  It was fortunate for Menelaus that P1laIrW
and eth'e tiels o es,  exposeten'irst cheek left4r 'he would haveiesein4  tt'
to death aliddestruction."'             to unmask himself in his pesoifde."l
tohdeath                                wasstuchon  . Ph arkeseegone a  k
'Ah   h'i tnot, my divine lordi ' said yhiarhesJa'-g'nejthe"    0
Ikilarches smiul 'giy. The friends of the fot  di a irit lfro i     }a    tf
,. ,'             "w'ho deflver s me from th +a tram ir
ki   aut be wilhngtodefendtpiscy with
theirliMes. The li       rovet  w641heMoi.,o r y ;e ro     J mh'owfJ YonJ"ibut#   1 P
me       Arie  Q£e of'very
ptle anusdmaee, c       e   e      ey is, she gives advice to slugb9te t'1
littleusan   heg e  ty.   'e, h.ad bets hea 1  *he   .ii a i  a
venture thesa first; per aps h e  ah    h    sahvm         chId" '
St           f   does-ewby         thoushalthave -my cd      o      fr
w  Or 7ipu1  'ew erice o rw iogrrp    rytoid  I ya
we  r  , d., s  . "!         in sf      aespoted a 'u     a so cruel
saro useless ecrippleas, l   raud-fathrs' '   stlf,' I $Le tppA
or crying bae4    or theor  se     o "   a    te ussd
Iam ot a  n of'    erdlgve             ,e     s
~ ,,       m    o  gi                   AlAI   ad laughs toasobrany s~ks.


TiulE  rlR9T    OF'
might bheIe                       - sse 1thstt he  ot the gt of he
r atsQerta    the abode of Ipbegine.  e reached him a dry skull and bade him wpI
#i1td  fai     oolwithte ston, it. Alexander was wroth, still he weig ed
~    4 tis ill thi                    the skull. The arms of is  dieiS, hisown
"It is to save thee from  thyself;" said arms and jeweliy, all hi o  anddio s
*A,      dasth     d1dtwinh'would not                 talaice    e sull.  T    6ieie
'H        anstiou do that?"     enelaup canie a wise nan and. sad, put earth on the
skull and its weight will begone. 1Ste a
pibr est tanstbewig   cning, and ad Alexander marveled, Then emo Ah-
le,' v lea  j h  ,rup;b wisdom, ^ said madi, and said, that will also be thy lo  -
a'                                              .c  ~         be t U'  V   " 'r'

f ooJ," Yen el s cried, feeling
yetof An amiX slast words,, "1
hee a question."
~gJ need" said Amram.-
wae a questions of fole,
gon. So' thou art paved froma
t~ou phegne,.iuy daghte ?"

',    r, said
iNgini, thy daughter,"sad
d notspegl o loud of her;
I', wfe.; }e eaiht herjn
Ie ~nd ,egleike he seared
axed away e carried her to
st$; at place, :fool " Me e-
ce           t"
is ,ebn dthe 4 rk noun
xte.q t found  so
bp~throby thIr

""O "T 4 we or
Well; ais a ooe  en elaus ask
asked, ha tily '"  i
Not yet,  saiL4ram.  4egatider
knooked ata aof B  bR h therons
IN ~ ~ ~~~o ke~ath~ahkbldn,

"Answer, fool, to what I as  the," &amp;i
Menelaus; j'Knowe t thou the pace hith-
er "pheginew s     eia?",    - 
"There  behind the'darkongi    ns:
dark mun tins~
where tlieamois abound; there, ehin4
the gate of hell, where alexander gece ed
the marvelous skull, right there is the htme
of Ashmada" .said Anram.,   T4e. Xjph-
egine mist be.
"Can any man go there and brmyne t
dings o my daughter?" Menelaus asked
"Yes, yes, if Ashmadai carries one
there,'.. said Araram
"Now, if I tell thee where Ashndi
now, wilt thou go to hin and ask him,, how
my daughter is, and give him a letter fo
her, ant    noody what 41tou ast ,ones
and returi directly to me?  Menelaus ask-
ed, hastily.
1ecmercy, highprieht d9oiot s. nd
me to ,4sh ,adai, :he is 0, he is/rnyaeney,".
Anam crie.    '~ewill sway p  z e  h
did king Solomon, h w   tlarush me ' " ,.
64 ch           1       ta  '  '

Hie will ot, I tell thee, said Mene a s
will gife  i  hariBs t-t will -ely
protect thee  S 4   r            u
I                    wwfl  thy  1ifarns aregood,"said
theoi, wih ~      eringVoice.
"teil,   r heody for eatur&amp;, saiden-
la q   In an houror twos Qu'nmi s t~eave?
Mer61nus weit 6ff to see Apasia.Amram
ed th oy to' have an Opportto
-gee Iebe '&amp;a main dc.,;e'ndei, a new servce
tO te riotss by brvithem an accountf'
the tatef fraals inerdeusalem
Aspasia had caught Philarches in the e
ofe hJ'   if charm  and°tied hhnc fiedy to
herfdfutne TTe sh eie4i     g     dt4' {igi,
m    .     n jy w  t amnha

right, that nothing was impossible for her;
tle6t re also  ose four personsslhetho' t,
fnei4I  nut lkall into'her hands.
Thi dce saBat at her side and' listenedat-
tentivelfto her narratiye when she commu-
ica d o iri u the result of   er espionage.
s ivideznt'tha the rebels are discouraged
by the tidigsofa  rgearmy coming ffrom
Syria to m    } anend '  them.
of hem  deset their commander and r-
turn to their ;,ionses while offerss eels their
houses an4 fields for almost any price and
etsigh toEyt Arabia, eNibtis or Arime,
nia, and others tgair hide the6 selves i
cae aid crewices. Terrotandlstay reign
now    ong them:   ot the large army nmaJe
its   +erance and th6 rebel ion isa an
end  The-headsof the ' ebelliori sit in ac
tively togethef in  izaih,while th eir host
disprses;  nd i 'now;no it wha*'o do  Yo
will lee, my lord, Aspia ' i gifted with'
penetrating looks."
"Your Wiadp, my lady, e:acknowled"d,
anLadnire, your .penetrating intellect, as
much as   wor hip1our /charmnsY 4aid Phi.
larches.  "Still Le eot a bloodycoombat- -
The  rebels rillventure ;they utmost.aut
lets not speaknow of perils Lovebe our
thene.' In .your gaesence I canhardly think
of a other    When wvpAspasia bemine?"
"Wenee    nlg~    hlaches deliers
four ersons into; my{handhsd,"hsaid ntAaia

laus ig atragherogs  art  ;e p  gaager.
ed awayyhis peoplean'hi   eligio :,o the
s perdottal rope.is ga trhe  W. i  g
im 1fll,het Aiymeb high l rt 4bb0
ot r c egature, and you the.e cIyie meste f
fthisatyof fthis land.".   .. ,
",Theing gswpade yog   lgegritesagf
the great go44,ss&amp;M     g n       de,',',,sa  ,
account d your iemigw         and f1iths
hyent tos cause., 'W   49#1I
not bestowge e
I, will do so. But when I will be lord of
this land, wilthen A spaia bemine?"
" Now o     n s             iAQperene

i


the  biMde c ai't naot f~r ti.,polluted and
dl$oored." ile 'reltindt&amp;tift houteido
rant as he left it and undecided what course
dit .lie leved hi "achgitead could
r ds t' lbsf'eAto pr it et her. To 'en-
iist f'th fool*ith  o lipotant a niision
eded°hatdos''to lin. - If heas
edIdglhtbytle Syisis 'and he'shouldconf se
t a he Mie s   to'Jinathani witi'a 6ms54e
Pldt   i ofe"haoh gi est, itzku s~t c bbirn
lih  4 dfi  veki hi 'life. B 't t &amp;,fotl'
lidtwshi thiigof Jo iathan, icdthe Syrlians
t oo  ntltig of Aehniadai: The- fool is
fithfl, he' *111 ind' his way to Wonathan
and deliver the mess g . if all shoulditurn
ogst, hethoug~ht, the testimony 6f a fool
* und ha if mjuir ue him. -F'hllyhe cane
t 'i e hohisui of e diaga rebal nies-
sa       i taan by thoffol. Arem' was
cal1rdifdeit a vay with the dispatch. .
-I~    X2I.-
In $he aeetl      pathe fi y       sf ty-

fns from our country lacetrange s i.all,
its uartersanddvide thelandy otamong
them Fj   effecthisnot Oly two armies
r  ough      ae{a nd Philistine to
the, south, but another arty  ore emie
orajaizes 'beyondJordan under the lad-of
Ti notheus andBacchides.
withini come, all of themsaid Ju,
dah,      the help of 9d    shall s ite
them,  Dasivi4 smote Goliat  :od said,
we are his servants, and none should se llthe
ehildren1 of ,srael into slavery.' Theyhall
sell none of ius. Thi s our-land,, and they
shall not divide it amorig stranger--Let
them come, all of them, we will defeat
a J'oaI did the Edomit s in the ,Valleyf'of
Salt."          -}
After Judah had-spoken, a. pause eneued,
It- appeared that - one' liked toda ~ctrad tr
him,:while eery one had hi ,, doubts aind'
apprehensions Theadancing enemy ~as
much too po*erfl  to -U, ghtly esteemed.
Ptoleriy, Gorgias andY Nanrwere esperi
enced and-reipted wa iorse and Atclt'cef;
at the headoft s .s h ies ashey hd were"
more 'than- eriingh, aooding to oinnn
palmdatiohtoprotaddcisnh the a1ibt;.
4o none spokebecase each  lt the alrpaci
of ad diin   crisis, in whiehall the6lan-

T~i~M~e~BEE.a

expectnanyAmOre; -The tidings 'f the ap-
proach of solarge anerimy drives xianuy to
despite of:our Cause. Many leave tie 'otn-
try while the nu nbe'rof those is-legionrh6
seek refuge -in thecca ern, and  reoiicef of
the niountains.  We -must leave suficieniat
garilsons here and in the other cities in our
possession, to protect the women, children-'
and old people;'- therefore ie will not be
able tolead to battle nioie' than'six thousand
men.
"More than sufficient, if we act speedily,
before the armies of Celosyria' and those
across 'the Jordan join Nicanor andGorg -
as," said Judah, ii acalm and almost indif-
fereut tones
"What says my brother Simon?  Eleazar'
asked.,
"Wisdom and calculation are deceptive.
when enthusiasm swaysthe scepter," said
Simon.  "A   eriea of martial' exploits as
our patriots went through under the lead-of
my father of blessed memory and brother
Judah, are-a precedence which entitles aus to,
expect almost anything fromthe-brvery of
our inspired pat iots. I agree with brother
Judah that six thousand of ours might de-
feat forty thousand of the enemy, if wa
act speedilyy before the three armies of the
enemy can join their forces. Let-us "le'arh
a lesson "f'the great Cyrus as he advised-
Oyaxiares, his uncle, 'henthe mighty armies'
of "Assyria 'like mighty avalanches moved
toward Mdia. The warriors around us are
heavy aid courageous men. We have 'plenty
of arms: 'Let us'give to 'each' warrior a
orsat about the breast, a brass helmet to
eover his head a shield fbr the left hand and
a sword or cutlass for -th  right to enable
alLof us to com, to a close fight with the
enim    Thu 'thai   twe certainly  itibt
break throw glftheirranksd. There arilen
tk of slin ersiand archers in the county
who  wll join with s a we proceed. Let
us ddWut wahvior some d ya   weeks
close ight'}ard' then proceeding the ,ame of
God."   -
''i'Ie  rillni iis unaieues:ay, ' said Jon-
than' "hM    tt$fldif thedbet ecifoil
forgteg~an4ig'Breie/Sixiosedh@ieof
armns is eNr~joo{iiffy~etitnttio  flt d~e
16   %   g      dhslM      lea~st."
ag         gg"siM         M      Thou
13

speedy ;ationas pease God msore{theakil1
and artful tatics. God s ithsthe t t  io
ast, because he tu' ts inihis Makeran%0
thai in his wisdona."
Si.on took offence .atJi dah'ssw rds.;
my advice is; superfhious," he suaid, i fi
ture Jlshall.be silett--What do I say? ~No.,;
I will 1Qt b silent, when my peopleand any
country command,'
Eleazar interrupted them,   'rudence
and enthusiasm, wisdom  an .raer, ar
excellent conpardor in warfap " said ,..
God has placed you side by .lde as he Ai
heat and cold to produce theggnia) emper-
ature.--Let me tell you brothersagfor;3
come to definite conclusin;9,4Wio r a fera
stand elsewhere. Our brethirei In  gypt
Greece and theislands of;the seoeoutrge
the glorious enterprise 'of the  iriots.-
They sent us money, arms and cattle, aid
promisedto sends us mores :OB brethren
everywhere in the east are uklde arrn4,
allied t the dissatisftedGentiles; they.defy
the authority of 'kig Antithns  IaAre
menia -they guceeeded iniroasing kiri Ar
taries to open rebellion aganst:thatyrant,
and' in Persiathey peasuaded the people to
pay no taxes to'Antiochys . Thus;ho w lho
occupied in the east for se'veraIyeapts.Coeua
and there ,.nightfind his grave. If, withthe
help of God, we succeed i defeatipg'the
three armies in .the&amp;ldk ea inte us, TsraeI'f
independence is' securedl,-u 1ibtesrt~ee onu
laws, our samnctuary-are- ouZes2,uO',.nire as
in the gdqios :day f
an the other side of=Jordan will noto  sate
difretly against us. Itis placed , tbei 4rae
reserve to operate either inthe eatin spt
po t df Antiochus,or in 'ur county ity Supd
port :offtolekg' ary, as citrntstadeas
might require. Weneed no }feaithat My
at all foir thepresent. -Thethird aimy stil
in (Geloeyrilg *i- certauly bedelaedt  a
by th aMloqiee ofJos e   nf Joeser Who
will-confus   lem   ong a nougli for tota
usever' cadtio ii  d makee  jrepaation
ecessary to victory. Thei f e while w?
tru~stln1ed, the ju~tics ofi oui ase f a d
the valor' of Cour wariors, let us%6i eit
i1te theyafftids5 inea  aa$oi0   bl
without biiviir doe'ieW oid

t,

.
i                 i


%  brothers were divided in .pinion  the violent emotions oQfher heart, - Jonathan
4eaandtJouathan;wished to take the on- grasped his sister'sa handto lead herawaye
my ~paprise/before he coolAdthik$f an when: Amrazin cried, passionately, 4Stay,
attack; and had no idea of the-bare possibil- forGos'ake, stay"
It  of being 'repulsed, Simon and John    This trange behavior displeasedfudah-
wished tosee the warriors drilled in heavy 'Speak, Samaritan, or begone," said he.
arms a4;close eght, and have an. accurate  Jonathan understanding this well, said to
hgku ledge Of the eiimy'e'positions before Amram, ",I.shall hear thee-after the com-
venturing an attack. None6ould yield and mander has dismissed thee."  These words
Eleza r- proposed' 'a eomprodhised  "Our calmed the' agitated passions of Amram.~
father'is dead," said he, * we have neither 'Bowing reverently before the commander he
qi'im"and Thumim nor  reliable p ophet'to begged his pardon for his conduct, then he
decide you rause. .One angel, one messed-,narrated:"- "Nicanor and Gorgias are- en-
gerof theGinst High is left us, our mother,- campedit the frontiers of. Edom with their,
God bless he: Let her decide' your- cause headquarters at Emmaus, They muster
aid  t n submit tdher decision,' Let her be about forty thousand foot and seven thou-
out 'd&amp;'                          .  .sand horse: I come directly from the camp.
'411of them    consented unanimously. Here is a faithful description of every posi-
Mother Miriam rosearid addressed her sons: tion."- Amram  handed a large: scroll :of
'I am'not practised, in warfare nor is my parchment to Judah, who perused it;eagerly-
mind energetic enough.to comprehend the 'A. proclamation of Nicanor .ordains that
complicated state of affairs now existing--- every warriorin Israel should be killed, the
TheiLord has' notrevealed his will-to me, rest of-the people should.be s ld :niney for
and my heart epincides with each of my one talent, and the country' should be popu-
sas, as eaehdesires to do God's holy will lated' by strangers, among:whom- the land
I cans not:'decide.' It is true, rmy sons,;we should be divided-by lot.  Uny merchants,
have no: Urim andkThuntim, and -no reliable with plenty of gold arrived in the cam to
proiets- to' acquaint us with the will of the buy the captives."
Most High; But thereis a Bath Klo'left to  "Thank thee for this parchmeppt," said
guide-us iiicritical moments. It is the voice Judah.  "What else has come to thy know-
of'the peoplee; this-is the voice of God.; The 'ledge.'
Iode:xiho revealed, his' will through the  "A very important fact, said Amiram.--
prophets will neve!'cease to speal"t rough  I am a wealthy Samaritan and my father
Israel ,the people sanctified to hia service.-,-- was a warm friend of the kng and the per-
Ash thepeople and let them decide"      snal fridad 6f Nicanor. Therefore I pos-
"Ttiegfive: ss sankupon -their knees and sess his confidence. .' told himvhere thou
repeating the last -words of their mother, ;at;,with 'thy army. In the valley'oft the
they 4rew -their. swords and- saying them Kishon, said-I, thou art with the main body
diwn 4tsherfeet they-signified their unani- 'of-thy army, to collect about theel fight.
mns onasen t.}Rise,;mysons,'-said he;- ing men without fear of dni urbane, as 'no
"and doiasI advised you-"  They rose.and Syrian was there.  My information was
t iaoor was opened. The sentinel  ntered heeded. He will end away tomorrow Gor-
and   dsamaritan:;insisted  pop seeing gias with five thousand fot and one thou-
tm, coia der, having to oniic ate ink- sand horse-tot seektheei i   n the mnuutains
portant i formation- -Admissio n    being and drive thee into the plains. Guida are,
grahted;et   martan enteed, The ;ban- hirediwho know tie best passes through the
dage being tak n froni his eyes the shriek of mounais.
iobecea betra ed at;once the the stranger  Eno gh, young  n   a    dpd
p~4*.--                             n - -,  -ow enogh. -nBt hJat -sne~anst tog
"Wio ~t hp~,Sargap, and whaA give e-tbatfhul hstsecqje ,Nicenor
batt thp~ tog@l s?  Juda-sed.        - an~d dlat iot come to degeigeme' -
-4nanoiou pt gek,~ kgis fe-ming   " None!@  g ai4i A4mre   4tpor ted
1ool~a   sje4ntdily;. pe    ebec9a  h  " expept ~h 'ord pf gna
covered hoepguneaance si$.   gii g hi~o  'Ifdgda'hon girt gisr1       t

TUE, :Fia:$,r 0-,Iv

J #

Ti  M T]A o bA:BE h S ..                  -
said Judah, "then gird thy lbind with the 'Permitnme first to speak a few wo dg ts
sword of the Lord, and combat fae th lib- thy brother ,Jonathan' Aiita  re i s ed,
erty of thycount:y."                  "thenT 'shal1'eave'this'city' r,
" I dare inot,"-said--Amram, "a sacred  Judah waved with his'Naad and  amarn
oath sworn to    father on his{ deathbed was led into t4other comin Ther1b ega
tiesmy hands against the desire of tiy sat,. her head reoliningon-thie bosom'ofher
rhear"                   ~     1       brother,:whileher tears fastly 'riled dot
"Yes, yes, I recollect, thou hast been her cheeks. Amram;-opeliig the 'door; oh-
'here before"' said Judah; "then thy infor- served the"tears of Rebecca.  Thon weep-
mation was correct. It came in right'titme est, my only love," he exclaimed. '"0"let
to decide the b ttle in our favor. I am in- Ime' kiss these tears from thy cheeks!" "He
lined to believe' thee."                approached her and attempted to clasp'her
" Therefore Itell' thee, noble Maceabee," hand; but 'she withdrew it and, in acold
said' Amram, that rioW or never is thy tone, she'said: "I weep'to see Amram-again
time-to defeat Nieanor. His, host isf now as a smooth aristocrat; and :not in the manly
smaller than it will 'be any time hereafter. coat=of brass as my' brothers wear, as eveny
Gorgias,'the experienced tactician goesinto patriot wears in this critical time:; I weep
the mountains in search'of' thee, and Nica- because.again I see the.indifferent spectator
nor rather eipests an attack from'the moon in place of the hero. Go hence that I might
than from this quarter."  '.',weep no more."'
"If thy information is correct,":said Ju-  " Reproach me not'dearest Rebecca," he
dah,.",thous meritest a great reward."  implored, "no man ,must, violate. assacred
"I desire none," said Amram.         oath., ' Reproach ne not; althon g  I dare
"What tis it thou wishest" ,Judah asked. not fight, still I have rendered invaluable
'' To render a service to the cause, of Is- services to the cause of Israel by the infor-
rael," was Amram's reply, "and acquire thy nation---
confidence."                              Rebecca suddenly interrupted.-"Infor-
"11 an =not altoge her inclined' to place ar
impliitctfidence    thywards'saidJu-          ! Ah, then, thouart a spy.e Away;
dah                                  I'sc  dsne~sens i nt sa.~despise, 'I contemn the spy., He-'is. the
mean tool of patriots or fiivade s who nust
Stay thoui4 Miznah, till I return, if thy despise their own tool; the -gallows or gold
report' is-true thy reward dh lt-be great"  i hi fina1 aim.Away; and return a hero
"I claim - no° reward and want klione, "said
"Ielanonrrshald sa hnone "sai or disturb no more the peace of my heart."
Anrai'no sThis was too hard a lesson for Amram.--
one day."                                                                    - w
"Fearestthou to stay 1tillcan ascertain He who thoughttrender invaluable servi-
hQ  much truhthere-is in thy rport   ces to the cause of his peopleand therefore,
Julih asked, harshly,                   shunned -neither danger nor -contempt,- he
fear niipg,"' said Amam; "but'heard himself'$branded as a spy, stigmatized
h~in   given    w my 6  toMen lau Ishall ,asa despicableei-eatureby.hesrloved ep
retrr'tto i    Heiisam uhiapy man, Idearly.lle stood- awhile looking aghst
miet coxrey to hhmtiaings of his'  hter" without being able to'utter a syllgble, the
srg  [Iust-etain thee~by fere,' aid lie said in a'monotonous voi e; "It is well,
Judah   a '   Inow' whether thou hast      llrightyet I shall notviolate myoath
dah CRI ecca m                         vera bashlohed tuer --Aftery a
brouglme tte,information,':Rebecca-. uever ,haspsloved
Thou, c      ns _not dgo," saidAmra  ; pause headdres'ed Jonathyp,,  Meielaus
"I-a~no b th -api   I wat othn of sends me to ask thee wheothelphegme hiVes
thee    ,'eha ast no r ghtato rai;,ae here,, a
nor canst thou .derive any benefit fromit."' .,"SeWvs adis 4Jn hosq       p
ehhde ehveno.bego,e erh sa                         nthI
right to deprive thee ofthhy liberty. Begone','sids   en ash t  re  Ine
thea, mWpgyworddsar ttkpj shall retem-   "Aipasihnnwsath     an.hs    i  4t
berglieed"f' hey are false thru shalt ioee d1adgerobes,%a'id  iAhmx~~"$ ~
cape the hands of vengeance. ol~gone~'  Mintgre   aok tWe Wodnldn'       zh~ta

4


Turn FJUST.0

;?F             tse &amp; 'j, Vise;theoto hav
,p,       {ghtto  o fer place.
"Who told thee thatl.Apasi. nowsthis?'
4aguIt ed,
)'.so wasia the bonse of Jpse b~en
.ese.b   a'id  .M nrarn,.""a nd  wrote . aJetter
S4sasia though Lone of my friends who
gevee the letterfit." '
"'le  os is not dead?" Jonathaw asked,
atily.1
" No,he fled from the battledeld,?'said
Amteni, ":and 'coming,in, his'flighit, to 4-s
edah-br ,attempted to.'kill Iphegie( Qn
brigpe e te fromity he exposed: her toa
inue ,katudeias thedingh'ter£f Mane
aus. at ti$, higpeiestersof Venus. '.A
1y0pot~eed her, xd doae savedher life."
This , et o i   Alcymos only confirmed Jou-
sthanin his belief 'of Iphegine'sfaithless-
ness. He attempted to master his agitated
feelings' a dsaidin'dilirently,  then' Jose,
gill continue t protect hiet."'
MAIIA hIS the voice of love? 'Amram
asked,astonished.
,'" 'was 'the short reply.
"Thou lovest no more poor Iphegine, who
willingly Would. have died for thee?"  he,
continued interrogating,
" Nomn ore'. said Jonathan,1
"And why didst'thourescue. her?" 'he
,Grigd4,ydolet y.
"Topay my':dabt,  Jonathan replied,
calmly.
"Now I understand you, Asmoneans," he.
cried,;almost frantic withaYnger.  "Aslong
a Rebecca wa a'tle obr daughter, antJon
athan the prorsonofMatathia the. unpr
ten   inipl muataineer,. A ram and
lphegieere;,goodenoughsforyour-lve. -
lated itshosucasssaandthe flattery of.a
d4la4 p opie, :pride silenced',the voice 'of
o hef heughtinessaq ienehed nthe flame,
ofhftnp svarkity",,,estroyed" }ny. pa a
diaeffgJf-d eet alays poor pbegine;  ow
[ uinde   dp, and I shall 'mourn no
mer&amp; at v    forever" y ,'
Rebeeca was too noble a creature to e
Jonat%4P*$vrWetet dy&amp; Adir~hm, Mlxo
aM4ekst?#IM4dde au hy~thei s

e-art iltal   defqidedly !o.. R hepca must
master Diohr aftections as, long as tho hast
tot proved a decided friendof 'Irael'saase.
And l "-.here he simmered, " captain
ofthe patriotsxmust not lovethe/ daughter of
treacherous an4;apostatizing Menelaus.- .
Now,' farewell,'and return a decided friend
of Israel, or no more."   a
SAmran's eyes were bandaged and hie was
led away. Rebecca sank ,into the embrace
of. Jon than, and wept:asilent tear.
Mortified and disappointed Amram left
Mizpai to return to Jerusalem.- When he
was past the outpostirthe;bandage' was re-
vned fror his eyes,:and the gua;ds had
left'him,'he fell down one the grass andgieh-
ed to 'die. He roused himselff vilently- aid
walked on a shgrt distance,agaidjhiseStrength
failed dhe' sankidown in, the .bade of a
large tree, and covering his' face 'with'both
his hands he lamented over his lost hopes.
"Who art thou stranger?" -'one asked
him.
"It is Amram"--"It is Gerson," both
exclaimed at once when Amram's counte-
nance was visible. '"Who sent, thee down
here?" Amram asked, harshly.
The boy was embar saed, he blushed and
stammered tiintelli le word";' but it ap
pearedAmna n exercised a considerable in-
Inefce on hm. _e finally related-his story
how hewent with Iphegine to the 'sister of
Jose ben Joezer, 'how she. told him her suf.
forings, and:he determined upon killing As-
pa is at the risk of his life.
.  Not a  step furt her," kAmram Ooniind-
ed    I will go back with thee to the ippun-
itauns  I mun  se thee safely home a4 see
hine   oh0ishRio r ii n  erusileia aspy,
soldier, or a priest lnrks in every corner;
-tou  c an t n4t eash, Aspasia, nor darkest
tho  t kill 'herA" .  }  si '. .-  " f  '
The boy appeared to respect highly the
*ode "of A rs    WithocOiitadfiltion
the followed Ariiam'. They had not  eed-
ed   f farewhen they  etdo6stsdnfiev..-
ea ii    ""Thenu apt A aitati th' Srnmari-
tan" said oe, "tho  u  t   t ' rri&amp;"to
Jeiusalem,."  - -          'A:--
"I'ehall nos "said he,"Thamed'ione
there.'  -   a- A'   sdme "~--     
"0"Edept. Apasia, thewhighiyristesa4y
Venus, saf&amp;ethe meii, andah et~cxditorthi
hi armmitderaspAamn. Ak A

."Not alive,".Amramn  ried, drew his of"thertenplee-lil garden ,  a de
sw  d andoY desperate-combat en-ed6  The e eetarainol~diera:d i iig h  b 1d
boy GersaoA seized: thelance  of one of the  h'un ;pieciiestoad  1 ithegirdleg nes  d
temple servants; fir .toh they' were,,and glit ring d atande inthe goldsmenbli
ran it through the one who waselosest upon of hono ,upon -thfi breastaR We: o1  e
Auiram. The eonihatleted veveralniin~tes them unnoticed, /nd enter the secenFiand
before oneironthe ouit'osts of Mizpah saw main partmentof.eth garden house .ieTe
it. Several bold men venturedout offtheir we find a pecaliefoompa. * O io  efa
tline and the-temple servants 'an =a'ay be.. resting on a silk carpeted heavily interi nt
fore themen cbuldtegehpthem. Two of the with ld and silver, under a canop1Ii i tl
assailants.laid dead on the ground, and both the festoons of a- golden'eagle,%d'ecora-
Amram and Gerson were wounded          ted with go1d'rmbraidored d  o*i6rs,' r  ee
Itwas Jonathan who had followed Anrad and heavy tassels, all of' phick wera .ea t-
as far aesposible,-and then looked after'him_ed tenfold b  the netalig 'frorhieh
al farcos ee oildee ihn e' same tolhscovered the walls; blchy ofnanente4  ith
aid. On beholding Jonathar Amra iansaid: glitteing meiaic; thei we fih th  oe r-
" Tell Re'ee a am 'no cowetd. Tel 1tdah nor of Ceh  ia, ' Ptolemy' tlez on of'Dor
I am no traitor. Tgo now to perform ray menes' amanmi th6 p ime Qf Ikah6Od-ald
duty. This shallibethe thanks I  thee. surroun ed by royal li u ur.  T wo '1dy
I 'have sav~d 2the in Jerusalem, aye and guardsfrmed. With silver he obardi'a nd
Iphegine, f&amp; Iiamthe foolof Meielap2s; now dresged'ieoilt uniform esvered  ith il
we-are svel.                            ver embroidevies, stood at e ah s;dedof tie
"'Whither ilt'thon go?" Jonathanasked: governor. At is feet a fmale'laveo'
"Toy potect Iphegine," Said Ainra  -'quisite dbeauty=sat  d ; eaeh m iithe re-
,,,       w l~reshmaents 1he{ desiredl in t ~nr
' thank thee.' Farewell."     findd twome seated'efrethis dipd
"Eeturrovith mns toMirpah, for thou art      twoJe en oeate b iefre is dgii
wounded," JoJathaeiinplored.   '        tan AJeos  en hoeesera Ihiesiple  ga
' I go to perfor  TH duty, prodd Asin  riandrAlscaptsin. It. apeaidnhiftonty
nQ ,e  , ;'n Ain  paid:;      - , , q  iout'Sra  cpai.I apar4'      h  . of
ne   r~ Am'  pad.s"         contSli ldened agood.'Wh1ie t widtheitaggo
tlose'who lay dead here assailedme; 'on mi .tad lishn d  goo  wiler tithe o
occou.nIt.I go to protect jIhegine"    teased hesaila    y the. os tagh   e is
!lasd                      ,e ad: Ony te dg~      i
CHAPTER       X'XIII.+         at' truth frozn"the t~estn ybeforetaiY; the
zoATER : "     I:I-r1IlI:ca ,not.          Bothof you elaii'obe
,_ A       I        '',      the meengems of thesanepeople, .he one
Through the nasr   streets of  amascus prince of ,the Sanhedrin, the otera $4itin-
our stepeslad by many commercial palaces; !  shd 'pr.., +. Yisi  , t,1,f  bflcey;
and the mansions of 'the wealthy. We stop g  thoo: !Tht Adads~e :t
before. the antiqe palace f the kings'ofz  the ife"    r     ,r            ;
Syria, now oenpied by thge overnorlof, VO  "   !evil.Vku ,r4e:fe%        ; '
losyria.. Here ' We are'les'p yone fighto   te  l adr;    'b",
maarblestaira e oa d intheli eststate4Qy ,;oap    e ti'       ''  ;
then passing through large hall ofittart';    f             ,:ad,
ornamente  eacometbro  gh-a ceordor: .  Whntnia sts be i'  _            .
' eCr nti an pil;l ataing' frem the eam i c!'e -  n  #'  e ,iiMM
builiag th*9ughlithe. midst' of+ lluxuritntu  e xa 4'      &amp;* itb r ft
gardan'tetiniotgon.templadeo iarlerest  wholfeli~lnm    et     ~
in{ on.' maassive   oltwuiangsurnrnde"y  "PFattier Abrata   ie
apouting wall      . g.alefultatu   aid 'oblear  lordffees e  tt.he a i.
talwegetati0g   with $a~s~tself in t$4 &amp;&amp;g the ~itI         4v
thehgleui~g vadiey, ayety of dolers###d saitt 66iir i

"


~xrted fbO the right o s
Alitei~Coouant, saIseo 't
the r i t 11 h God i: ddrjes :mn
;rgh  rtI   l~e re  &amp;nfloog us I"''
.err or ,1 se4 ;~ whe i8 ;wicked  a1
4 g ju    C an =o&amp;..'P910,tthem
;.Godpj  udgps, ,the nmotives
s. 0  polint out 1G
mn w who aegi
Ait3jI j   ,9tQ a  4JOISar!d d el
+ army ,4iyi e Iw giver.
~4on are,, too ._ise t(
i oo ?af ip .byTth' tWo mn ,tsta
fo e     np,  qi  .App ,too £ust to
ijd ,,;ightepOji ones . WCinwas1
an      Ih~n ecaus , the;.:bk
b totb o*,drti d ?  r p m  the  ; e th  to ,t .a X i    d  a
:typiw sbtl{;e',orushiag Wlht tl
Ay, -g O itten-legions of
f+,vr 1y, l1mgzare. brothersrs,
one f$1e s *ri 4:once;' od.  ereaL c r#
_ i'My~rcio ulox  an:4 govei
ALovms.  ii:I ot fr thpe
p~ov9       nt gos. T, ~n
J$  ~        hi1svypled au
4 OR if     r""1       d kill; r
1!  9O pr  4 eo s oroo

and hoped ery just government to'stpport 'the 'right.
be winners seus and discomfit "the"wicked.WeY'also
Lbrah# to know'who righteous&amp; and   who1is wicked.
prayers'to Our glorious 'king sabolished the supersti-
unt   s o'the tiosof'my natio  because' those booksfill
their hearts with fa iatiiism, afoolishpride,
" .the gov- 'and a oerii inaln atredjagainst all other' 'na-
nd who is,'tions.\' Our'glorious king'commanded that
out ti' our w  'shoetld' worship the innmortal :gods, of
Greece, the 'glorioti. deities of Syria--that
of miany"  e sol--ev
"w  should leave our narrow-ninided preju-
righteous  ..-
ig     dices andibecome'menof:the world 'y yield-
. oyf4he ing tothe philosophy of'Greie and bowing
.A a   ro tonthe .will lof thenaj ity.,The king's
$1011 c, 'n ill is sapren e la sotheenlightened men
he~r icked .aw ..                            . e
kmy ael think. Righteopsness'is obedien'ce
oe        to'the  a.Therefore mylordknowe who
is righteous andwho 'is not, who must be
seared and  mho  unastibe killed. There can
Wi , Ofl 'be n 'ddi'ferenceof opinionbe'tween us."
eam1ong
uge a    iLtolemy desired Jose to reply1without any
ending b   r restraint. He did so.  "My gray hairs, my
soil gg4D bf.ntfi-ame and treiblin 'limbs, the 'forebo-
innocentdings of approaching, death, should justly
a fugitive protect me against the acusation of hypoc-
ad of his ricy," said Jose '"but IsIhal not opmplain
ie Lord.- of any harm 'or mortificatioii befa in'g 'my
not pon humble self. It is not fo6 me, it isfor my
e'burnirg people' bleeding from a thousand wounds,
othere; that'Iadderess myfyrventi      ooumy
they have lord. My 'God and yours'may 'punish the
wicked because he knows tpeni and can
sedt{A lc resieethe 'righteous as he did ot and his
th~ lorddaughters. -,We an 'do' neither. My God
and yozrl, He i.the'only, od- lid not comi-
nor, said  mand'o'exterminte! 'the Caaaites, nor did
o wike    'hepioi Jpshua or his sadeessors ever en-
ite b, fore=force' lawso barbarous  and bloody' God
alo h1  e oioly: keommauded  t u 'progenitors to "take
rdeet uposiession'of tihe landwhich was th iirrby
it best ierghts-both =piman and'divine; and pity :one
hfJo e: co  iglit op dse them ietis  od~ns .
ian a  q  the; icked 'antbeaighteous,He yina pnn-
a4p  iparecd shthe feorppbcaus# he hf wsthetmand
h      d ta emthe-'latter'If Moses +his*riath-
Sose       idsl    '  risethren withoutai direct. cour.
ho~h txiid 'ofp ~Qd, heahas donerawrongean4'I
hpss wopid iwlitle atteinptktoojustify has Iaa
pl4g 1je tokl~D~i~ j wllerthe moietetheideaea.
431gsofal; for geithr'f ati waade
isb9ks ge94  d   kgor an     eksn4 avsera
9*4;p 9%rprpsWstqry recdhuinarrogfgn~
e7 9      Oatte imltJa  t skiumhanayhek

teach our ntio' histgr y an4 inst record is wr  the peju         b4    g   ks
the' vicesand virtuesof the f hers ,onac- against us are unjustii'  pt  e
co nt et truth. 'My books tee4pGod s lawa, kingban o ,r1ig tg  9 aboliii t s4
and there it says ,  hou hlt ove thy ea I-. @God, nor h sahe the p werto pr9sh  4
bor as thyself, the" it ordams, Ye saall conviction out'of 'the hat,  d 4lpyI
love the stranger,' and then agin enjoins whghkowskal t is, Kok.it; les  aonld noaw
uponus to include the Cpetilc::pr'all oi it, wrongs his nation and wistea4s
acts of charity, to .protet i n:byouitlawa upow th 1.ery bones pf higancpestoxyq.  I
and not'](npose our rebg19 l'Q pu nPu.  ay rm right, my lord, thon my nation ia rigl4
book teach .ne   wfouthe hefit of al; and yu in the name of.  iie    uapare
therefore according tor ny books cymos is us."
wrong and     am;right;&amp;nd because I am  Alcymos m desn t tempt topea
right my p,9okas are;;right; they' lay in my out the permission of;the goveri;o r b h
mouth the wordsjlzspeak."      "        stoppedhits with the que ion j"ecoigg
Jose stopped a1ruptly/andbreathed heav t  ou, taheaiis,lord Alcynios, mustt' not
ily  Ptolemy eyed him keenly oniaddress kill thiold'ince*hemust appear quit
ing, the question to,him: Is this your whole wicked to youi 2
reply?         '        r                t' Without hesitation Aleymosre plied:  :
" No, mylord   said; ose; "but touch ' our gloriotis ki k , npiloniixs nd eMfelau
a theme vehichmightlead serious difieoul-- decided, and iis appointed' to.sere dim t
ties between you and my'h ambl self, and" to death.' If'lM  as not lie' underahe
havenolrighf to give you offence.      teetion of a~truce, the duty' td eenut the
'It is your sole -arguments I wish to learn will of theyking would devolve on=m  just
and must"know-in oder, to decideAjustly," now as it did 4WhensJonathri apre entg&amp; dr
said the governori;  theefre'I reeqst you by an armedforce from-erformig i',
to continue.''                  "iiDamaseus," Jose soliloquied,p*here
"I.obeyp  y lord, t'id Jose an ethen be 'ki g  eii'h ntombedWhbmztheprophets of
continued thus.   have"infofned ,outh  Israelannointed, a d  , num&amp;atis earg
lieto 14omon?"'
my 'books beachjusticeand e-to.Al         Ptlemy apren.        a     ttio    to
Te'piouhslssdelitioAfao obedience to dfieri
law  s piety-the pious sraelite hates nonethis,'and said 't Alcifo :'ryo n is=
nt even his enemy, thiks of no vengeance tent f But now'tellpus what ,you wished
and eairs no, rade inhis heat lov    u   sbefo
forgetall transgressions,.so my  st  I.    ftei a -iofoubd bi  lcymo&amp;ai
Is this:a superstition? *y lord, my btpks L o practice, appears, h 9  de h
teachthe nations ahoA be covered fbytheold maitohis= persattidsh
principles of 'absohlul -jasice while love cas= alowftheal his .o upstr itt  he
and meicy should rr regulate th  tercou s fore I bo* to t o ,com 0a dehitatl i
of  aleni~   isertte?         yboks all of    in iust e exi        '     i
teach ilthis to be our solemn duty because benett o txogry e      e    r     fe
VGodi, t ie llonre o al intyLell ct andrthi ase m iad of' I rVel wllri '  I  'wra T
of all existence, governs e worljthetovict on        All;thi  lbo           c
ldoe  iW this, su He st toun lybooks: they-~w rO n tpwetbC -k~l pleMt
tea  h,.that -truth wiltriuz npb ap last .a  am~ong.thekiee ii
;t'                      }    7!


VNeii 4ndi whee id theyi kill idelar
M4?   # ' n    o :ini red r,  n  '
GM a they  illec di ts
6f   '   1d$7   idi        lyzesenm  d
tbo i, hi  ede'%b+fi e=a id after thai'
d'ogpb4,gfit in     that ntioi the goVA
arnorehtiedadistioni rg
,A6b       lndredyears,  said' Acl-
ely toa loig to be agoodarguIneunt
now,V said he smilingly ."But , tell me
hir    itoh se pries. .killed;' was it done
bj legal tirirtiesr   a~ obV!
x  rd4he tlto Iatter my prd,"said emisnQSe
MMkntion can inet be. madepossible'
idier;o: idd 600 years ag      laid the
governorv "thereforeyou 1ad better choose
a i the ,argmenft. }iThzcan  pu rovenoore
th Att'     nwshon&amp; slay thein; priests,.
if :v i   go to; the etreie- , dai te of
tiepiesatl, Ibelieve, belong to'"helaeef
i4u doft progressive enlightennant."'
SAlhuembag    ed iyosameli but;
he tas soaover it &amp;rid continue: "Jose
ben'd er and his conpatriots -esort to
two sub     gefige:, tInthe'-first place they
ne e   peak of the fllies"+hich"theirhooks
e4 ijW, 4iddraost always h :wwthelightand'
hide'the 'shade. And in the se0eopdplaee'
the L oddnot confess' awle   hoeti ,is
th p  tb that they'eI gto the follies abd,
drop th:+bestiot1tin of their ownuliterature.
One of those .follies is not 'to' htermarry
kitI   8e;iles; not 49oeatNof thriFopd,
d rb     of the itn, t e yperspte

6Jose beioejer quietli.and digassionate.
ly jsten cotihe'harh'aiia ieis ofle6y'
fo. s   i'hei goerno.'io casio rally.eyednim
eloel;   l~  ' aiditalkied he ge~ban ed
quietudeIdui ng the ohole corierst on.
'  Nb e  rincecar you replyto thi?"
'thegei   worked.
"Aation whose-representative can not
refte theseausatiops "' 'taid Jose, could
riottrpeosi  it for tirteeenturies with
t he' sam'elaws ;and institutions swe-did,,
rdy lofd: Absurditieschange their e sie.
and color, deiusionsaredis eised by. the
progress of ages. Truth:onlfyis imn'table,.
and tirteen  tu'ies of inmutability speak
in our favor"
"fBefore you reply,". the governor inter
rupted, " tell me, doyoti consider lord Al.
C mos.a wicked znan?''
Godaloiekiows the motives of' man,
Said he; "Ican juge Albcyinsonly by his
words and actinios, an&amp; tbese'are very wick.
ed.                K
"Then you would haveiim killed for his
wiekedessyf he way in yor power?'" the
governor asked, quickly.
"I am no, Cain,,tbat' I should shed the
blood of imhroth ersaid .ose, sale ly.
a i  ot lord Acyimos very wicked ik your
'estitia9n?".thegovernorasked again.;
Ifanaiho savesh-life: by sacred
oath snd thi :violates{it "said Jose; "if 'a
an who; again to save his life exposes the
da dgher .of heisfriend it ith fy of an-ex,
,ited multitude; iftaprieste ioblaspheies
Aid God   deses  i altar; Af' airan who
'acus es lis ownpareisad b rot-erof the'
ilY    t risande  hls pon'you terse.

T H  I MABZ*BS.

of battle ,sing;arms against them. They.
kill none 'for having continued to' obey the1
king a little longer. than they themselves did.
'Thou shalt not-killais a divine lawwhich
niy compatriots only violate on the field of
battle."
The governor, rose and walked. the room
in rapid strides, being visibly agitated, He;
however, soon composed himself and having
again taken his seat, he said:. "Well, prince,
I request yous to reply to lord Alcymos.'
Jose continued: "Our books are ,ivine.
The Godhead commits no follie§. We need
not resort to subterfgges; for truth fears ngt
thqglowig light of the sun. We have often
been rebellious before God, and have been
puhiised;for oursins. The special. cases
which Alcyimos ,mentionspartly are :ot true
and,.partly they are ,misunderstood.. doses
married anEthiobian. David was:the scion
of a. Moabitish wonan,and- marria thed
daughter of: Tal ai, king of Geshur.'#.olo
mon marred angyptian princess. Need
not Fmultiplysexsaniples tQ show that Alcymos
did. 1dot: speak the truth in. this. case. "We
would not allow our wives or' daughters to
participate in the orgies of the Greeks, the
lubric feasts of' Ceres and Bacehus,,orto
prostitute themselve in, the mysteries of
Astarte, or be Aevotees of Venus..because
chastity is the;,,diadeni of woman andinno-
cence iasthe sacred halo which makesaher
the angel;of,' the, family.' Tiherefore we
would not ,allow,our wives or daughters to
worshipyour gods---Ineating and drinking
we consider temperance, awise rlte;, there,
fore we-have certain laws to prevent us from
eating too much flesh and drinking too much
wine. We, eat no flesh and drinkno wine
with you; but we invite you to;eat and drink
with us.. Why nust we eat flesh and &amp;rink
wine with .yopu'to proveour- regard  wrhy
cad not we eatvegetables and driil water
togthergr'remain asber, ,i4giage' neither
ourselves nor the' nations we present,' e
are a'sober and frugal peoble,lbecause'u un-
like the c aiifarbus aniial =n:subsiston.
the sweet fruite;of ou  soil and.d lkthe
water thst' aboute from the,vellsaof' our
rocks.  e ark ett~ong and healtyypeope
beeute waat tund drink temperately and.
oipythet wialg~ euo o   be eMs@e
ga~dq~Ay~ gg         qu    hpga4o)

harm, that.w should be persecuted-.zo thM
account?, What is  to thekig and
Genti e4 what weeat, na; drnk 'that
should ber massacred for this regson,
"We. do,believe. the 'wo derfu a=riony.
of this universe and the'eelg   gjusetiq
in the course:of history to-be the demonstra-
tions of one,great, everlastiing;adgsupren
iintelleet  This ssp eme initellect is oii-
mutableElokim, the first cause of ail et
for whatever existeis theresultpf ir t
Every thing  pevipusfto', its ' ati&amp; nu t
have eristeda, asn.idea'of that : upr meei
tellect;"forevery minute rt f the uiversa
contributes 'to tle ha einy ofihe rpwhres.
fIan being himself part of:the ;nuvsr~e
will never Comprhuend theessec ,of the
great spirit who created and yoprns° the
whole nature.: None 'gjfted'within tellet
can fail to perceive;the peity i    64i ia i
festations. Theref reth; atheist p
insane to us, and we ,ipt:consideevery
concrete . epresentation ordivisin of the
supreme intellect a bbaeshem  of the. 6ea=
tue committed' on its* CreatoI. :f this is
an absurdity why did Boae,94j9
totle, oifthe other wise ien of Greeceot
contradict, not refute ittwith; philosophical'
arguments?   Can the sword :and'misery
convince us that. two unit 'are moei i o
than two? Yrily, persequtio  n&amp; madtyrT
dom frequently endeared the grossed errors
to the sufferers, and .established tm  fo
many centuries#,wghy should they  tat av
the 'sa c. effect ontreth?':he.kingin per-
sec utng our patriots only wo   fr  our
cause.             ',.
But suppose, my lord, dl tis 4e not
understood,'was Alcymos in' heaven, ori
Oly pus to giveus4an_ apo4 ideo     in
As~pt ffse 'osener      - n a  °
tics h i t of theory v sf qg
which the.pilos0 hers ;off  eebe1 o    td10


1IPfrS!oF

totit loflet thoeservints'
l :i    ill I Dos;'the
,hst thos een  ho'riles
hi - u iet$? jTh is doctririe
mSnl 'fotitide'lo- bra e the
thetand' ti e'hiricaiie -f -onise
$sob er$   d1d8th1 he chasti-
S  trlie e obles 6r moral
rtus abdvethe-bevel off
It iaisrus-neiteir proud'ri.o
iuflbue5 is  with the 'conscibus
'the  ain sting  of' an; it
)oeHr which th  i irdfeels
he f8idenc6 aid6loe'of h~is
e      e erldeidted *iththeoist
;pitio s   I'pdlasuin no
t toe Gentiles thinthat pf
Sis- upile. It engenders in
e ,l ankind, jlloffwhom
e   Aildrenof'"£ikh    a  #io
hem *ith the =itsage  oflove
to"the hOuse 'of'the Father.
7   u,3piteppoeIt ismust we
d fbr this reason Mu t'death
Our bitter lot because we  on-
a ithQmessengers-of=the Gd
childrenidram the king o
dthe "diof his     t hers
l aomaon to erect a temple it~o
asithe great oking of"ted+o6Pr=
ei-elgi of'is1inbj et ,'still
2d'ti e  kiid afterth6'trim pof.
dtft''kins  fter Dai s Iyt,

the colifusion'
loe of o
lf.- -

The governor stopped and looked onJose
iwho, not being called upon to reply, main-
sined silence. -'The governor asked, "No.
blerprideeareiwe agreed?"W
; t beg to differ-.withyou, my'lord," said
Jose, respectfully.,
"Then- state your opinion, and I will lis-
ternt, saidde.
"The mighyruins of Babylon and Nine-
v6h, and'ie"fading grandeur of' Pergepolis,
Suss and 54batana," said-ose;  teach' an-
other rule to 'statesmen than the one of
which you speak, 'y lord. Thosecities,
bano the pro tinetropoles of gigantic em-
pires, the -very centers 'of wealth,°luxury
and: power are  ow almost desolate: l-:
most iinnumerable are the 'nimes of' ine.-
i*ehs kings, Babylon's proud Wari-iors, E-
batafa's warlike 'riines,and 'the i{ighty
lords of Sus :and ersepalis; but they are
notabore,' and the empiresWhich' theyestab-
lishedoneAdee di eold.' h      ytheigb
ty Work of nan so perish ble?'-why i, ,ithe
mortal 'nature of' man also the natural of
powerfulnempires? Because S'll of'them,'
each inhistime, followed sapolicy eitated
by :prudence, and eaeohbf themi forgot 'that
justice is the best polity, the oly ne 'that
outlasts all foris'of government. Prudence
dictates conquests, and they' it teaheis to
oppies the conquered' nations in order to
hold thermin- submiasioh.' -Itis an estab-
lished fact that'the oppressor's hand sooner
lose its energies than-thoppressed nations
ond bedeprivedof41thefir inherent'love'of
iode pdendcnce. Therefore the empires 'gov-
Srned:by a police of prtideice 'must invari-
ably sink and decay.  Wheiver justice
Will dictate the policy of epires, they kill
last forever for"Justice'is God s aid, like
hl mielf,i 'erlbating. Prudence- evades
tioe and destroys the ve 1edie it'in:.
edi support 'Thisis the lessoiunf vn-
g empires.and desolated or ruinednme-
'oes"                        f_ _
'A:h; noble prince, you- only coif rm my
*ords,"said Ptolemy,  youuonly esiitby
other words  Icallist prad  ce yourname
Itistide. WIt ia-juetide ifitisenot pru.-
ilne?' uttikeisetatiawrofactdn which-
rstban;4~isthe goer~td people; WMod's
tb  gk iljdestdlIsW a 4w         i-
gggdigF'ugso  ge     g eggggf'jgi,

T H E   MA     ABEES.
empire  life who tandsatjie'pead of thisghite? ).i   on uuribI       t   _
empire, sees and know:'a l ieir wants, mustfru  s wl4te                     p
know best howto benefitEemil; pgmust e eJ#v      odte"
determi g upon a;lW of action byhis pru us miserable: Also o 4
deneea'his rule, ad this law is .utice to ries it must'be 'ust to nmae tthe s
all; still  no more than prudence. The and it xute unju t to t a t
king's willis, justice.                  b    We asthe    ng ue
"My lord, permit  humblemanto con= eirbleis his not. jtst re  ik,.-11
tradict your  se opinion, said Jose;  for materials o hagine a are placed. iy
even the  isest is liable to error.; Ma u1V an ir rekeh.
unsophisticated and natural, bears in him-  True, very much so," 4      ey
self the sense'of juistie, the innate desire "but you appear to forget that dool   e*.
to do right to others; fut his intellectis notrdession to f personal  iws and  sis
always vigorous enough toascertain the ex: of  i a factiQnf r outqleo p e  y
act ruletij9ustice.  ThereforeGod reveal Laze meae gres o  orgin   kip   + u
ed to 'us the. full definition of the 'teurai. noonsidY9ppresiveid condue4-civ°ti  e
Thou slialt"iokill,.not conumit aduItey jiot r, th  faction eoide "b 14o1t
steal and not bear .flse Witness against thy aidiondcdu i tv  h p nes  Is it 1,
neighbor-Thou shalt not hatehthybrot er      d    s
in thyJreart, not-.think :of vengeance, and   So tit  gr Oiouslord,"  s dAl1y-
not bear grudge inthy heart against him  s.  We are Just    red of theimi-
Thou shalt ot sladerabuse ar calumniate tions hey call justice  'I'he sons6f May
thy neighbornioJarbng hi in a   wise into people who have entered the em$ ,ofMih-
ill-repute-tii is the negative dfini o£t rraacquaintedthethseles with the 1idoin
justice. T'Tere shall f e one la  for all, the o'fGreece, know the lofpyco ep ionsf
rich ad thepoor,'the'nightf aidthe hm- the nhghtenea disciple of ApoI o k in e
ble,theking, pist nobleman or beggar- capable of ad idiglthem-are 9 s  fife
Thou abe t love thy neighbor acid the stran- .of the old ;speisltion o E itb  -
ger- -Thou shalt uportand protethedeed; diid .eunnit      os fii05.  rs
poorand ueedy,'the widow,,orphan'or tran-. uhiah ae basedon'the °proneous  niple,
ger, this lti:positive definition ofjustie. it is  man's du ttoisil ece'lis nffeetoiild d
Kingst and 'lawgivere are not ap ointed to subdue hiisasions i&amp;order to 6     ,
determine wht i  justice, tlis we know.- which meant to deadetheipd  can e
They inus minister it and'determiine"ip of h iiaiTess ain order to be f ajiy  We
yew c"setghat, j stice ditates, So we. b   ti6lo en ugh to their nr    eon,-
tlhink, 4beaiuawe listen to di inerevelati n. cepti ois f jtst ieu l eq tise alll ini,
So everyiat idnial1r n mustthink as soon athe kina:thebear,: giv powre  noe
he learn Sit" ±;iannchy to all.' W                             -onotito  e
"So you think because yea ar peliover hapy in theW           le.
in a divine revelation," said Ptolemy"but  Yu ee nown'    inee we an sat-
we believe adthirik otherwise oUde- isfy onyoe derty~*      iukb    z jut
sireustofeat you acorig to your indi-,aant h        te anorig oyortod
vidual diews; 'but this we can not do 'with- rie, sad em~   Tekigudrto
out   iffici our own. You eanotepet     swellnl                     t  hi
this roei-U s. 't              u  - '  th     t bet 'ec .dnhi_ to rhis g' o he
' Weran, mylord," said ose, "keisether sh         r       riand   rie
the cor'traris suid att, got mneie;y secoordpig' ry 9ver th lI , nep  ed  r
to our theories,In  a lsoco ng to yours. eA             t 'b th     et   hi  s
What an be.heimy of angoernmentrifa it'  es   W   h
is not to' m1e the ntiois heppy   And -'"    cue tekgs            tob'
t0  9la      iec44~es             oner  l~e~sM            e~
taeta sour to hi ~ho li    rgQnons best.--i
Th       M $ M!i                                            7Ft    4 *L . teelo*e*ti**t:


us'n   FP   s    &amp;r         -
ORi;fl   ~  etre andhespghtoi  die .Rs VilA           p    AE XK  IV
She i u ic eded iinseda  ni  baym of It 1wasthenfifteenth  r of the xoith of Ab,
,,ur  o-;    id hdivd us to madness and " day of rejoicing in theinieyards ;i'ch;rds
re 1l o   ;   e W rie the jstioye d ail this? or groves. w Tbuasas thenr the cutonimof the
'a     neri y a     o  youtquestion, Hebrew'peoble. -'The virgins dressed in
okd4.Permite tm add: Who arethe white garments borrowed by each of her
r9 .a, 4se who obey or those neighbor, not to put the poor to shame--
i N      d   I the laws'of that land? Evi- went out with song, music and oyous danc-
leny th   frmef ; th  e  t  re a cosdered  g, followed  y the lads, and rejicd in
~it a s.. wtate  e~t ue   Syria must God's free air.  ioW muci more least a
be prei ely so ia    stia s  hose o gurplaceof'dehghtful amus-ement is the orchard
snco       X a nst. 9r hws are kob' a studded with golden fruitthe 1o~4o~
goldnrut e'door iec e
a       m fastion of iour natibi.-= with the verdant car et, be tw  nature
W A7-7r be  on9  ; y eI le   are, on the variegated colors-than th ehotaroom of
S   t        us, n     Eu ine or the  odrn beIest How     muh"freer than"in
p an sea, they think andbe1 eve as #e theclose parlor of modern society beats the
rio, not as Alcymos does. I;epresent the heagrtin the idst ofthe fragrant blossoms
illig   of I ael he speaks for himself which impregnate he-air of the grove with
fe heW 9opanion' Mdst the =millions their sweet odor, inhaled gratefully by merry
oe crigcedthgrebelhious otins o the birdsthat flute theijoyus concerts. And
fob  I itwy y4o} utter wordss when ac- the vineyards with thrrichclusters of ripe
ti     oudlyeskI The king's armies sup- rapes flamed inhth tli k green foliage is'
pored  r you're ellious, sons and weiwere a sweeter place of recreation than'the
{ithoit  ep s andl'eade s;"still " routed crowded theaters and operas of our' large
both 9 them. eThe       exp ay, were, tie citie  Therefore anciently;the ,aughtrs
people:and thgey arega giall and re elhpios off Iraelchose the vineyard, chards or
ctipni f Se; If our morals are;to trin grovs to celebrate their feasts. There they
e e     hte them be so cif we ,ardes rout-to vied with 'ightingalesa inthe sweetand fas-
Wes.,ave provedd for thirteen  ineng songs,withdilies n  eged the
cen       1tat we u derstan how to pe hap bIlosoming cheese of the beapteous dam-
S.     Ire was  o time when anarchy reign  se.
t4 in I  si, beoau0Q  9 gre ,the  gople of  mds year, the feast of, Ab was iot s merry
the  e, emphagtic9ltly;norw? t K e timee as usual for the lads were  11,gone to fight
S he thegreat a1igop de'e notnduly hon- far the country'sfreedom.. ,$tihl the  ierry
edamoig us, Thereforer islord,;hav ng band of girls dresseiwhiteleft thevillage
,r ved ours competency of selfgovernmentet before sunrise, and the fine elhoasses of
it was wrong to disturb our peace;.and se- sing rand musicians.were followed by the
4ue ou eos; Alzire foray ecomp si. a  l&amp;ath~p~uiin        eefloe       yte
,ee pur ,son   'eree c       a,         ld fatherland mothers,0by noisy children
Ptolemy's arguments wereexh    ed and and ihout rg boys. ,Arrived at'the spot of
.oymosadyanced invectivs ,void of truth, recreationthey'=fored a ,irlgofmagic
so t{a reodismissd :them both with-
t speg      agiword in fior of ether par           scsong             ddanced
thtm oweeeakthanheto tlie melodious sound 7of, the 'h a,  r"R ym
ty.       tgrz e .ved;th  o ever, the bals and tamborines. When allcheeks were
9    hear tem agai as soon, as his me inted $n "Sarlet huesand every bosom
~wu ld er a  t.prl'ce with thesatys
x -,.  e rt  h0.x  ,roy alh             a  ved  h ig h er,4 h ey  su n g  th u s.
2,mlesxn  i~big   an ed uh i             pntoMt~osW ~i
jvtz8oi         d'A~y~seive         h ~aeAhmeron                ds.

Trn MAo~CAnIES.

indle'ting Ara., J '.:
onhzzuad ,mountas1a high 1
(Qhonu..)-.Beh~pId, thesy cogs e wi lh glory crowt i,
TOur lads retatrhfrom battleground.
Wave'the banne/ ,, strikce- ,
The cymbals, dance with glee;
Glory singlike
*of Judah tedeabee,r
(Chorue.)And those wlw'con yith zaurels crown'd,.
^ l .   0uo lads regurefromnbattle ground.,
.Rise  and senate* 0 lion,,
Thy fes who shaclethee;
free must-be our Zion,,
By Judah t[accabee,
ers:.)- And those who coinwwith laurels crown'd
our lds return frembattli ground-"
While .many a teal- glittered in the eyes
of others; wives; brides and daughters,
still all joined in the chorus:"
"Beholdithey peme with glory crown'd
Our lads return froei battle ground. ',
As the singers proende their; number
and the power oftieirvoices steadily in-,
creased. When the last. strophoe cane all
sung, none accord, 'I   ,
ni is' and smite, lion" &amp;C.
All appeared to enjoy the happiness of
the posing monentand' forget the miseries
of the past _andthe pang of the:heart after
the distantnones,  the b-ight, oes which
rested in the lp of futurity. Also the hoary
headed, fathers and, mothers: begal  dancee
a     d ug,'ad thelitte.bomys,;and gills
1 sereanied, hallooed, leaked anki4 daieed.;imt
appeared that ,joy had seized upon thewhole
company andeach was eager to ontrib te
his shae to the general .mere iment.Yet
one. though pale oaoid sad tooli , still beau
tiful. as morning sun, 'satsilentiy in the
shadowof a fig-tree, and her eyes wetwith
tears"ishe gazed at the rejoicingmultitude.
This;;one was poor, abandoned and cheer
less ipdgine, now and hre alled Sarah,- -
Her heartwaA toesore to dance, sing or
evei istile  The recollections of the past
wer 'to  bitter, and too livelybeforebher
mind   ei huldnotrej'dce.  The sister of
s -beoi oezerand her   l daughters treated
t'he ;piles  ia n- withthe°enikie kind
1s e oftaotie  nd in ser; tbey ofteitat
-e3 %  e4 to i6 9nsie'   ad h'fened-
bfdnt hilqey~nth~hea~t th i+y
*   %) abi4sas9 Wsiuted andavi
.4   mntojge   ssdf~df6tter ,iough

M,.

steppedgpt4     egin   d
joinehIfestide 1
sisters " ,;he id. M" Yd-rila ,,;tU
ers; your beloved neswih et   the
battle' ground,crowned with-&amp;lol'y 7-O fill
return. Butimne will neverv-eturn
soft nioo will Againakd non shedli   l
very iusterr:on thebyghtmirror  tNea,
seasonswialoaind'go Qbu t   4tio awhom
, love will never, neer co a tley  e fr-
ever gCo ne.
liesgirl sympathisibg heartilywth their
bereftfriendspoke worda ofi erly voto
he. Shelistened,dkised tiem ' 'r t.
She coulsnot{ beeru ded tointheur-
ry+  om,"4n i  '{,  4,
STh  atitentiouf the disiega  pantips
was attracted to  st ge  do war4de
boy rightto the spot hefestl tei  he
stringer, wrapped, 4 a.icklo au4 twi  -
standing the eatvemnieat".wht*hbe@4 dear-
e4 notto mind, wakeid. ae asjsthasy
could go. Now the;fe;turesff ersiiiwe
discernable   Rt it thgie hteY;G:'er-
sou who ramsaway,"' ne ,fQthe SrI0a.a.
cl izne:' ' Iphegiletrem led  Whbg~o s
the uthusiastiP boyea44i:  w yys: waeyy
question whh  ta   bed  ee  due '  -
Jonathan-n Itg;. not 1,e,' she thou ht;
because, she was toefiptehdisto
think oi,       i npd h t1Py. Aixseng  Hof
Jonathan-neither5 djdsheexpectsifsi.n p cGt
now Amr approached; and~  ersoee-
,, Y t  , ~i...'. ", i- -i


lieI3    Whatpi4Josht   tell te?   and speak! Not a ,word, not-asingle word of
.'oetns .otb eame knd were consolation did he senid re?"'
1'      Z-Adressedo       mram.   It      o   word," said,'Arn' mournfully
j'"',i   '   " A~~  ntin"Shis' veto mkeSe    o arra, rr
Ap cAaeeSnht i       oer           e    covered her facewith her hands and
ti$eftgr yepliest. allthoseueries; till 'sobbed loudly.  WPeep ot,;nble I
saifato  a  egie" adAma     p nt'noble Iphe-
tried togivethem'such' satisfactia .he gine " said Amramand believe me, no
'Mould fgfo    hn.withhis looks directed, man is worthy of-your~tears. Console your-
t Ip eg in.e aheontieu d:,  '.have seenzthe self with my affliction. As'trtily and affec-
sa  of6. atathia, , heinspired championsof tionately as you'love: Jonathan, I love his
'rael'  Bold and full of hope are. the'.lion, sister Rebecca.' 'When they ' were yet the
Judah Maceabee, and his' brothers. Jona- children of the simple mountaineer Mata-
Gthan thee youngdion, till falls onthe enemy thia, Jonathan loved you as Rebecca loved
as .)leea      aware seizes=upo' hi'sprey.  e  Now they are the glory-crowned he-
.Smoe deads t he :nWth dwise counsel, John, roes;"the beloved ea tains, nay the cherish-
Ysea  iro   raiin the feLdt r~oghi which no ed princes of the people, and Jonathan dare
enemy-can pass, and Eleaar Is the' govern- no:longer'love thedaughter of royal tMene-
ing headto"lead an4 unitethem all. 'The laus, as Rebecca can nolonger love the in-
brvsOns~of tin hnoutains, 'en'your hus- different Samaritan. My ease is so exactly
da   ons ak'd brothers, good people; are like yours, my loveniction and despair
e ope of Israel., "l'hey are the br,.vest are aidenticalTwithyours that you find in
6i gte brave.The 'prophets see,=happy Mea-tcohpanionhof your sadness
Ine n'oxpanonof'youdsdnes.
ignonoheav     nan4have divine 'dreams of  "It is impossible, it cannot be!" she
globy'tyili s igh  'exclaimed, in accent of acute pain; but
',Idely dceeded in speaking 'thise far, soon composed hei-self and in a 'low and
No 'the ethueiastic shouts of the 'multitude monotonous voice she continued, "Yet it is
rente lair;rre ently the girls 'oined so. M y hopes are in vain,"  She sunk on
hands, forme4tthknagic circle arouri Am- the grass and wept silenttears-
ran id;epeated their new song,             Amram felt and reveredher tears. While
"SingO'ssters sng " &amp;c.     'Gerson endeavored to console her he wassi-
f    lme Ve mp'ulitude j iPed' inne~grand hent a good while. Therhe said: " de-
'oiius' and the tideOf. enthusiasm ran-very tachumn t of Syrian, soldiers roam  about
ligh.                                    thesesnountains ,i search of Jah Mdeca-
T'e first. excitementbei g over, Aiam' ee and hisarmy. Yog aa not' saf here.
managed ,o an 'tospeak alfr words alone   'dislike disturbing these pople'in their
to'lpheiie. 'onr father,' 'iY  y, pants Joy' But I must' advise them,'tlhaievening,
after his  aughter;') said,4 iAram,, "kut to leave their village and seek 'shelter in the
thereas nop.pyeet for you to return.Io his mountains. I, will' go' with you, Iphegine,
paternad heapt;'forA~spasia still seeks to to protect you."
dietroy you. Re' sent me to tell you this  "Smoke, thick smoke rises from the vil-
and  rotect ou.'-                       lage," several of the people eclaiedsmedi-
a    ma,;believe him," said Gerson, ultaneously.. "Fire, fire, fire!" itsounded
n node tl y, "he is ,a very kind man."  likeconsternation from every lip  "TLetus
A se ritie flushed over the pale oheeks quickly return."  All began' running  o-
of Ipegin;, when, after a lengthy pause, ward the village.s Arran," thunder d lien-
e    e      a   "id you see Jonathan ike, "For God'saereturn     ottoDt   vil-
Z         saa did he know your intention lags; it ia the eriemy who set at p0.Ig"
to~bjn~  ~4ng~of ng~unhspy father,?" but he gas notheard, th~e confusiopapd
AjnaaInvag o~rmeigtbie, ehe continued noise were 1go greater Now he (un~   to
in$ 5~"n     4i4 e pqt send.oue word Iphegine. nid. :pyaye4, gr "ic   ban,
(4'~p~~in tote chesgees plgymate of follownmsgygg aelostie
.  " . .."[f(4ew x 'strepgernto th
t idye- she said, "I rather die wth my nei e4.

in vain to-save herself;_she insisted upon
stayingand dying-with -her new.friends. A
detachment offSyrian cavah-y; followed by
runniing archers,. ese;ins fll gallop.from
the;village: Nany'of the peants fed into
the forest;'but others eitherhairing their
babes 'or their hoary headed parents with'
them, while againothers were paralyzed
with fear, could"not escape, and a 'nost tert
rifle' carnage  began among the defenseless
and inocent peaea ts.
' "'ee, for God'sBake, flee in time!"
Amranimcried, do it for the sake of your
lamenting father."
"I will'die With my friends," she, said,
"I have nothe'least.desire to live one ho'
longer. -Go, save yourself."
" Hear, 0ohea. the shrieks 'of despair,
the groahs of:the dying," Amramentreats
ed, "' com&amp; aindfollow me."
In vain he wold not even rise when a
savage band-of archers suddenly surround-
edthem.  "In the name of the king I eoin-'
mand you to spare this wonin," Amram
roared forth, on, showing the insignia of
trust he had received front Nicapor  ho
sent hima spy into themoitain  The solb
dies respected 'this; but instantly, the old
priest of the t9rople of Venu  tepped ;orth
and said,""Both these persops.are myprido-
iers, Aspasia the highpriestes sent me to
arrest len who desecrated  thetemple and-
are guilty 'ofctpiital crimes against the' ia
mortal=deities."
Like a thiuderbolt these Words fell crush-
ing into tlieHearts of Iphegine and Amnam
Remnstrance was in ain " Back to, Je-
rusalem to appeasethe great goddessby
your wicked bl ood!" was the ci-y of the od
priest,'and none couldobject toi With any
hope of, success.      ~',
It was ".terriflo egne, that followe the
hours of joys.adthapiness. The burning
village forced the awful baclgrountif;thea
pite wich    resene:itselfto the te4r i
ed: ind.  'he ol; n   thebabes were
slughtere in  cold blood/and' she young,'
gay and .happy hut afew.momxents before,
wge nowdego~ndent an4 ilfaged captives,
eedposedti the uitbri~d~ sesion5f rwde
a~~li ies lies.  Ahe grega ef-4,h
d    dylngdhftr~~othe,4a imen  a

tard  interrupted only by the  ng~'el
of tiemetiemiesind tie oosidimal 'tlaude
of flling'houses.4
Have mercyon a'bereftaottlerne
woman cried,  etnie b ire,   nytonlyi  il'ti
A roar .of-savage laugh hurdr'dried the.
'voice of the despairing womanVcih
ged to grasp adagger from theg   yie,:a :
soldier'nd' exolimiing,'"death iy.peferai
ble t shame ,aid. captivity '  pieed'h&amp;r
heart ;before'her hand could be'airreti4:-~
This horrid deternigh tion appeared-.tgaar
rest hrone momeit ' the ; grpav sioadof
theSyiians; but'the next io intenetth kiek.
ed the dying; woman out rof'heirs'ywiad'
tying the captives together in pairs'thef
pursued their wayonward. Iphegine never
entered a sound during the 'wholbo catastro-
phe, and'without a'murmur,,si  'was led
away.

--"Nature breeds,
Perverse, all monstrous, all prodigious things,
Abominable? unutterable, and worse
'khanr fables yet hayS feign 4,'cr fe rxconeived,'
Gorgons, and hyd as, au vb~ m Tao dire."
HAr./C H  1  X   Y
THE DETE-lM I NATLN AT.' M I LP        .
In the large square of ,i pah tl. hsdsu
of Israelites wereassembled, A lox:iitaun
ting the Mos iic ayk of the",vez ant inwhich.
the. scrollof the' Law,,was depgsitedestood
on a high platform in themidst of hq quaRe.
The platform  was coveted with.priesy
arbs, and surrounded by prieste, Levites
and Nagarites whose hair had;grown. nn.
aturally iong.e Wgha sh     we do    th
these Nazarites who;have . wge,,a vow uato
the Lorto drin1 nowie, oefat ne~ap e;,
,touch no carcass anf dIotgut;theyihai nog
shave their, bard, untiltb4eyyhave bgi
the sacrificeof the Nazir t eforethph ord,",
oucof:the priest oriea ,iiolen   gets,
('when the -mountain.eof e  op    jp   e
bands 'of' the Reathes:and  eruspe.is
deserted'dioty?"ALe  us cryAuuto'rg h Jgo ,
for Ais-er9 endurghtlforave;,'th  t elop
down, upo uson acpougrfRthefeep
iteg _eturnptp:.ie      gtupsayncu an ade  pt
again oureacrifsces."
' h  whole.Gongregitn ,broke ,,ort, g
nelanclioly, clamor, " abe eo 4
Lesavep4s. Iosiasl     ? s8      ida-
13                   )P6,

~ArAin nmvfv~il;t WiW~'  4U~iMI  W I 'Y

T H t M:ACAlI~i~

i

:4 Z"W', M4mRZKWmrAm3ALIL-m-mm=u

4


uTiin P  tRT  or
a  n; 'the'people'shouted''another,,priest in presence!"  Meanwhile the priests blew.
elgloth  ndsehes'up on.,his headl-cri d, their hundred cornets.  Tekizah and Tsak,
violently, "Her OL6rd, are our firstfruits, and again and'again ekiak and Terak it
ouno,,eates our tithe and-ourofferings; sounded powerfully, when ax' old p-iest
he., thoie#rstlings of', our kines and-our stept uponjthe platform, 'took out the Scroll
Q9e Wl he e sha, We 'offer them, where of the Law and shew itto the 'shouting mul.
ahlll  ete ' the holy meats, if thy city is in 'titude.'- This sight.restored silence. The
the' hapids', of our ,enemies and the holy priest opened the scroll and read from Exo
iantains tdesebrted by the abominatidns dus Xxxii:_
of the Eeathens?.Hear us, 0,Lord,'s thou   Thereupon'Moses besought.the Lord his
hast'listeued'to bthy servant Elijah on Mount God, and said, Why, O Lord,.shall thy wrath;
Camel    Hear 'us, ' Lord,as tho; hast wax hot against thy people tha thouhast
liste ;edto  laniahMishael and Az riah -broght forth out of the land ofEgypt,
li~e~~toHaanih;with f great power" ond a mighty, hand?-
in ' :the fiery ngfumace.{Hear us, O Lard, as Wherefore should the Egyptians' Sat'thus,'
thou haeMlistened to Daniel;in the lion's pit.. Fo mischief did he bring them:out, to slay
Ojheer, us, God' of Abraham, Isaac and them in the mountains, and desitoy them
Jceh   ,from'the face of the earth? Turn f6rm thy
The dult ude  shou the     T   ds4offierce wrath, and repentthee oftha'evil de-'
the   irtitude sho~tethe"ast    dofcreed against thy people. 'Remfber Abra-
tipriest  rt three tim s, then seven times, ham,. Isaac, p and Jacob  thy servants to
.and finally ten times, that the voice of the whom:thou didst'swear by thrown self, and
mighty chorus 7reechoed from all quarters speak-unto them, Iwill nnltijlf'ir' seed
of 'the ity.         '                 as the' stars 'of heaven; and all'the laud that
Another                                hastveho'laid. ostraed n  avspoken of will I give unto your seed,
fc 'prestwo ad:josrted upof and ,th ey shall, inherit c  it forever. Aud the
his    and groaned heavily now rose and Lord' thought himself of the evil which
cried, "Here are thegarments of the sons he iad'spoken to do unto his people."
of Aaron, " nd here ari they themselves  When   the priest stoppedthe people shout-
antiods to perform the 'holy ceremonies in ed 9 Turn from thy fierce wrath  and repent
theitiple, 6  i r +d of Hosts. But'our ene- thee of tlle'evil decreed against thy people."
riiesr4e 1s freimthine altar, 0 God, and TM Qld priesthaving returned the scroll of
v ee Iike sheep who havedio pasture,like the ;La into the ark under the, warbling of
birds without a.nestslike tihe hart persecu the hundred' canet'and the soutf the
ted 'bythe}hunter: we wander aboit the land people . aindonhe platform  l as'ite
df 'ourfathers. For the sake-of our 'fathers noise subsided he said, " 'rthes o  of
hear'iz, 04God1 foi the sake "of thy cove- Abralam"Isaac and Jacob, neither tasting,
nant hea' us 0God! ,for the .sake of thy crying, sackcloth or ashes will alter the
sanetudy uear us; O4God!"  Violently 'tri' crees of'the all-just Elokim. Reenitance of
king hi forhead  ith'his :fistshe' cried,.sin and the;deternination of obediece'are
iercely, "Wf are'lst!' 'We are lost!' We most acneptable'to the great Adonai. 'Tear
4' lt!if 'thb,, 0'Godwilt 'not smiteour' not your cloth, humble youihearts 'before
eneriiyes. Help,' 0 Ldrd, Hl osanah!". ' "" God. Cover not your heads with ashes,
' Meanwhile another priest clapped his crowns it with'the diadem of obedience to
hards i *ildagony. When'his compnitriot God's laws. Abstain' from evil and yt from
Adohd ririi, "Here ale othed'crbllesof wholesomefood. Confess yoursins with a
th      ' Half LeWaito which the 'Heathens .contrite heart rent your 'skedite
pii tt theW idols,by the side of thy name,- with an humble s irit and a penitent'
dgf   isael" Th'eyrofaine thy niaine by for verily we have sinned grieolis'ly before
thlfrahnatioiio9k il thy people, deiassthe' Lords Repemnt'and' huiY. ble y.ouraelf
tft 'hy land iimd"desecikft&amp; thy sanctuar* before God; 'peradventure he iaill have meg
byg their abborable 'suiexstitions: "ilt ey~ upon the remains Qf Israel.
tibi Stev~n hy liholy nuie, 0 Godad' "Thei whle 'chg1regatio. afeilanon thei.r
n  ithie~tei" 's'''         ~''faoes endtconfessed' teirs sins, while the
'  GTt  d4'reatidh exclaimned,?"Rise, priests with  lifted hadskimgloied*e
0' 'Lr~, a uez'thi  eneei4,"ndilet merey andforgivoees of heavn.
ase     W    4bvan         fhsahy    Thise   w   sa~ei uiil gdoriaglp

.-      Tint    'MACOAents.                      .     114
elbnate cries-was at:once interrupted by the account ofsrael and its san taty.
rielodion  tid silvery sounds of:a singl theLhnd of tbs Lo ds  utii     it
harp. Instantly another,:and severalnore=was transferred'to 'aa atofi steir
followed,'and aerreti ofsomiber accords with uncounted -millionsof diamond  w
like soothing.balmfloated through the air tal to re iect' the effdlgedt lgI ht" .=  rd
A holy and awfullsilence ensued: Slowly, the hamn ony of the sph'ere"  I iteddo
the people rose from theground and ,the theriel'odieg of the seraphs. I saw t  ed
hands of thepriestsa unintof their natural flex°off the divinethi'o e of Eta: ithe
posture: .All looked' in -the direction from boundless ocean fs 'uni From thestfib
whicr themelodiojusmusic came: Again'a of the suns there rose a man gi koi i4d4
flood of: encha'ntifgsounds charmed.theFears and clad with 'majesty.'  Fatherd'dafatua,
of the excited°n altitude 'then hundreds of cried I whatt means all this?' t  tif
stringed instruments sent forth a swelling' th'eeeeieged fro''the Aan of sunth'
tide-of musio which gradually decreased in- host of Israel's martyrs led bythe angk si fe
to a nightingale's soft voice and lastly and the Lord: Their tears; were adiod up; the
slowly 'alsothis died away.'   ',    'sad looks had vanish ed;triumph; as de
pieced on their foreheadse blise'evei'lasting
'A man tall and straight, with a hoary :ed onspekaboe  blis   sleveraig
t,'and unspeakable bliss hadse i itseftllgent,
head and beard, a-pale countenanc and atevrhar ot'           es     '
slaster over their counternances,-  hetiMdtes
mg looks, stood inthe midst of themusi- thiapproaed me'and said"Re i' and
cans notlidless a4' a. statue, ,irs hands speak.Ande-when Iifted up my eja
stretched or"and 'his looksdirected to saw the words 'with diamond letters'setinto
heaven: '  hen the somber mnlodies'expi- the volume-of' glowingsn  Israalslvii=
red he said in a solemn and tremnlous.voice: tory.iscertmin.' I shouted, 'Lord, myod,
"Ihave  Bard teviex          rTn    h
ead thy voice in the' garden, and what  eads thi'?  Matathia pointed= upon
I am afri~i for I am  naled. I hear 0 the earth, analI beheld-the armiesof :Syria
Lord, I listen, tIhearl en, behJd,' beiold laying 'slain-' on tehruitaih  of Irael;
thy servant will speak 'in thyuarme.  Dh Jndah M1ceabeiinfrl d thel ion bane
reacting his fiery. looks to the people le con  n Mont orialithiga" shoute&amp;he
tinted:  'I have seen the. veil of heaven glory of itMel's God:"andtie'angelre-
rent asunderby the wickediiess 6f the Gn- echoed pit in a holy chorus e I"''hear&amp; the
tiles  The Vfce of the innocent bloodshed Jordan sing the'sng of freedom and'idhoa
on  our soil, 'cried  to  the  Lord  There :,cam e resro aledin  accents  f joy;  the  oceaii'r a m-
the host of auigelsetoconsole the te thou - edforth'hymns of liberty, and."theW3'aters-
sand itpiryrsx of.Israel, buttheyrefused tof'Merom  leaped withrhappinessai'
be consoled oaccdunt of tleir brethri Tabor'j mplike a ram and  Lebauer ance
wh :are 19 danger, and the house of th like lambkins;sawithe'desertblosdiaaand
oi r hichidefile   'There camel ea'the rocks of'rbinaiveover with' palhsmgro1e9
zar the p ousmartyr, then came Hanahi before thetordwho returns to Isrdinhi
bf her s-n'sons-and cried to thg Gd of "r'ace..
Israel. "The ' os"1 'ngel ct console  The pious seer ;soped  bratly. First
them, bu heytifused    oklt     nac- itap red that all Were peebles,  ert
count of 1the house of hael end th people   ledwith  e ae aid joyt ;The strt4 of
of othe' kor  li f'fell'b the sword  An4imnpsicom the; chrus;9of  ites ppgsd,
the a'honof the jdroif d m'e endIwstredeepmthetbonsandsof togu ~irouhe;
lifted i po to hJ ace t bo the sk,yand th eremagic spell wh h paralyzed  em, fad the
sod i.Yradi,'otanggJs e "hi-im g' multitude raged fgrt their'e1esskl'  t
dern    irr'ii t'tar  Aghis -hands 'ani d all of enthusiasm and glory.' Hndredsltje~sa%
of teo'irm e  i'the2graisejof lie Lr'd.-#thg edge 9fhtheOld piigarment whg was
And I geked wht 'is thid, 'There a~n tbshel is obha tjmyte rpoedde dygee


T .THE                             F
#danced almost frantic with enthusiasm
Ot  ' 'epe;, jumped and clapped bads
t  oitestkof them nnaintained a calm atti
n ttfacted by the immense excitement Jz
dhandhis brothers appeared among th
multitude , On seeing the sons of MatathI
tlounsaeds cried, simultaneously: ," To bat
lera$ viptoryi T  'e is our decision, on to
battle ad victory!'
Judl   ad appealed to them as his mother
advised him. -.efore giving their final de,
01040 r they celebrated a day of, fast ,and
prayer   was described before: Now they
were de erlined to fight the enemy forth
with. This determination was so agreeable
to Jdah that l e'instantly issued the.neces-
sa y orders for a sodden departure from
lpah.Next morning with sunrise six
thosandwarriors stood, in file 'and rank
waiting impatiently for tie marching orders.
Beazar:appearedin front and read to them
the. section of the 'Law admonishing those'
to return;who had lately married, built a
newhouse and had not dwelt in it, or plant
ed a-ineyard and reaped no fruits, or who-
ever wasa coward, that they might not dis-
courage their brethren. The response ,was
unanimous; "T  battle and victory!"  '
.The 'captains over thousands, hundreds
andens being named, thehost divided into'
toteequaiaxcorps,,each;under the command'
oone of.the Sops.of Matathia, viz:-Judah,
Jonathan- Simon and John; and set dat t&amp;-
ward Emmaus to meet the eriemy. Onward
they pressed -in forced marches day: and,
fighttinging psalms and listening to e n'
courging'prbphecies; and as they proceed'
do they destroyed the heathen temples and
altars, drove off the king's officers 'and
priests, burnt all insignia of royalty, and
Wete received everywhere by shoutinginul'
titudes. As they proceeded archers- and'
slingers followed'them, in vast number's, as
Sir0A n hidpredicted, and plenty'ofwaline
and "provisions were carrried after them
loatded upon asses which invalids voluntarily
91'hue after triumphal march through ti e
iithen oonntrythke 'lnst arrive, dur-ing
t$ight at th south ideuf Emtnaus the
~omp being anrth'of thet place
si1~n'ly ptei thei eMs.   fter a

I RST OF
; short rest and ,a good repast they formed in
; battle jine. .Judah. addressed theiin nhis
i own and peculiar style thus:
0, my fellow-soldiers, no other time re-
mains more opportune than the present for
courage and contempt of dangers; for if you
now fight manfully, you may recover your
Liberty, which1, as it is a 'thing, .of :itself
agreeable toall men, so itproves to be to us
much moredesirable,.by its affording ue the
liberty of worshipping God. Since, 'there-
fore, you are in such' circumstances.'at pres-
ent that you must either recover that liberty,
and so regain a happy and blessed way of
living,.which is that according to our.laws
and the customs of our couxiry, or to submit
to the most'opprobrious sufferings; nor will
any seed of.your :nation remain if ;ou be
beaten in this :battle-fgt anfl  and
ut e i vk "aaed
suppose 'that you must die'-thoighyo4r do not
fight. But, believe, that besides' such glori-
ons rewards as those Qf 'the liberty ofyour
country, of .your lawa, of our religion, you
shall thenobtainevelrlasting o     yory. Prepare
yourelves;therefore, rand put yourselves in.
to such an agreeable. posture that you may
be ready to-fight with the enemas 'soon as
it is day, this 'morning.' God with us..
March to'battle'and victory!"'
Onward they moved as the morning dawn-
pd. Jonathan assailed' fminaus. At his
right Judah, and John'at -his left 'marched
directl against the enemy's  p, leaving
Simio to command the reserves  I'ke'u-
res-idwithexcitement nd like dan   d
despising danger 'and'death the warriors o
Isiael'rushedi ito tli ,battle. 'ixb holdi
the enemy arrayed in-battle lines the patri
ots luted their, "We beseech the 0
Lord,' safe us!", the ,crnets and; trumpets,
warbled powe   ll :the rions roars : Ju-
dah sounded like the thunder through the
tempest, and thboodam        en   with
the .first rays       ramainpened.with
lent morning, when the poiwers ~efire hed
wih' dewanziously ahi  f r the 'fsi raeof
tesun, 'andthe' birds 'wakig flute their
merry concerts; btit n awakes to cmhat
a eemis.Beiie olent morning o
anky2 wilt 11 thou dawns Th~g

T'iY  E ACOUAB EES.

ways. onward to the reign Qf peace, justice
and happiness:'
Sweet are morning's golden wings,
When darkness parts' and night decays;
Stars still shine like sIl'ry rings,
The sun his right to reign delays.
Rosy 'edged azure smiles,
The san to rise and-shine beguiles,
Zephyr gentlymoves the leaf,
The lilies filled with dew, revive ;
Merry birds, theit'.bploms beave
WithieJoy, they siug'of happyrlie-.
Dew like pearl glitters nilid-
On'leaf and fruit andFora's child.
Mature weps joyous tears
When morning da'ns tbe sun appears.
Man ,awakes to war and strife,,
Replaces savage beasts of prey,
Think ofrmeans totake the life
Of thoaehe meets in wild affray.
odi 'of marey b''thejn stay !,
o Lod-behola tbelrvicioussway I
Terror, deathis,'jnan, thy name,
'Thou rusiest hearts that 'feel the woe.
Spare-thibe imge, hate that fame'
That feeds ob heartland kills the foe.
Mercy, ndn +, love and grace'
As, iattirm whispers,, Qod commands,
Rule'shpree the human race,an
'Unite in peace-theirheart  and hands.-
Stay the ,battles, Go- of light,
Let wisdonarule and truth anl right.
CHAPTER XXVI.
H  E P MESSAGE.
Jose ben 'Joezer had been called again 'to
the governo. of Celosyria." On appearing
at the' palae he was 'onducited into a pi-
vate apartment'whereafter a few minutes,.
Ptoleiy welcomed him:       Anxiously'Jose
examinedthe features of the governoai's
countenance to detect what success he had
with hin;'but t wasso calm and itmost In-
differant, his conduct waS souisually courte-
ous'and grave that Jose expected nothing
goodof him.
Afte being ,immodiously eatcd on his
cushion "ltoleiny' invited Jose. to a seat;-
S   e- time  after- this, was done, during
which--tl 'governor sat with his eyes closed,
pondering over some important thought, he
addressed Joseben Joezer thus: '"I have
careful y consider d the argu   ns you ad-
vanegaed'in 'bealff of your people,. and wa
nota little grieved' to id that yiiu condein
thegentiles; and I am   one of othem-as an
imi o al,'corrupt and debased multitude led-
y Ctain   apd eroneous principles.     Can
aangww~ ernthen at the Gentilsswho hate
seenr~ote, ou?. &amp;pymot informs me,
a~i I ~w  zen  t iteningyour laws, ti
j pher why should tgey no

Jose, being asked to reply, lai&amp; "We
condemn no conscientious ma    hate er
his belief-might be. We deplore an -op-
pose fictions anderrors, ;-an pityh
or nation- misguided by them. Meriff 'is
our God and benign ,toall. l  sun'shines
upon 'the pious and the wicked -and bin da-
ter spouts from the mountains to o'ereh
the champion of truth and the defenidtof
fiction.', His paternal arms are widely open
to receive all his children who attep in
their 'peculiar ways to do right 'and shun
evil. None, none who is sincerely inclined
to do good, is excluded from his heavenly
grace.' His wrath befals the wicked only,
and wicked is he who violates the dictates
oft his conscience ordestroys human , pi-
ness. We condemnthe fictions .andere;
we persecute the idols but not the menwho
worship them, except they= b, of ourown
sons. for then we are morally, certain that
it is hypoericy which ,guides themimpure
motives that;cause. them to the sacrifice of
their own conviction.  And. also ,in this
case our laws are severe only in the.theory,
while the 'practice thereof is mild andhu-
mane. .Since the days of the great Cyrus
none in Israel was conde*i ed to;deah.for
any crime except murder 'a erie almost
unheard-of in our country; still we, observe
punctually our divine laws. O r behavior
'furnishes neither a just pretext nor a justi-
ication of the wrongs inflicted .o.us,f
our enraged' patriots now hate the.e who
slaughter their wives and'ehildrperand 4?ag
them into slavery, they only followthe at-
ural inpjulses of man. GiveuspeP e and,
.P wil love you:as our laws command."
Then your God is not a revengeful.and
terrible God, as Aleymos calls ahin," ail
Ptolem y.    Aceprding to your description,
my noble prince, he. is graciously dipped
to those who orshi hunet, if .key onr
do right. Why then must y      Bg aserfig
your happiness and lives;to worship hit?
P~o what is right, comply to .thew  i'of,1he
kng,'and your God will be graootly4mipo-
sed to you.                         a
"Wicedis hewhoiolateshzis conseien*#,
or. Aestroy. huniant'happiness, sahlbse,
yih~ powerful emphasis. "We A     btwIa
th inpvidib1  Gothe Areatoee(*no
1adhreseeof dhe Uivieis *1*.e *le

t


1TH10
' '   p  4 e;toleny bhins theaost abom-
' ittJofidieofoseienqeelW hQ.shlould
bsiyQghlt desertthAlm hty n
oud       e'igh y, andbistrainsitora
unger~' Wiogh~ulde bagjandbonable
endogheto 'save .rs.life by a sacrifice of
to thaf lifqaeoer4'? Not we, myloig, not
tle atriots of Israel.,If you, my lord,
conrointiously enf ce the-manslates'of the
d8g,osnieniously kneel before youragds,
moreI  the governor criedapassion
atel   r id this violent outburst of agitated
asoi sisouned to Joselike a thunderplap
fromr 'serene sky
Nire of you,"my lord    Jose contin-
td almost instantly  bat for my   ed and
uy'peole' IIshall Imust spea   long 'as
breath :ileftl thi decaying body."
1elegt momenutthelgovernor was again
c6thposed, 'ca  and dignifid as  efore.-
"W   at .i6s'your/petitiou' behalf ofyour
p6e?diasked, quietly.
behalf'of i ersecuted people I ask
tw  fatoisv of 'your'lordship," said ,Jose.
t au aan'immediate arfistice a dnpro-
P6selto the king term of peace on the basis
of liberty Of consbience'and the judiciif,
and  li evolut' is -disarmed:
xy int actions are immediate execution
of h ya   il, saidthe governor,  the
tota,'eteination of your   ishap, laws,
itoathund 'nationalt.
"nstrtioins  Ptolenythe descendant
of aram   Tire's'reatklgisitoo ' oble to
(ary'out iksttua tions hostile this bet-
ter nature   said Jose,   and  uch.they
mus apearto you. 'The king consults not
his own  interest, hesaerifreesthen to his
hts.      aetine is the key to       ogyria _rfr
ountainS 're yuir castles agenst   t, s t
" herefori"th eking 'musthave theinm
said  b      yin'countryrnit havethem.i
ar eee myn.per onals entiint, .to the
weal' f iyconti'.'
"t   i idecidedlyigyn.vain," said Jos"EE
''o* Reg rliy digpathedp cliamdge o 1r
'be~wheb  tide or etirinato rs," ilt flnd
its grave $lihe mountains of myf'diintf.
AnOieotiietidryis owst "wie 'ideutical
th~eddihdteotland' is urs;God
4:piadi.tous in'tegria'l'heritage." 3IfT
sihi  tottW  adth&amp;'m~ttise  ron4
J~   f   e    dibd4ed' i"the'

IMT :OF
gea, and the u be diyide'd into inignifiant
stars, still Israel, its eovenantanditsreyeal-
ed truth wilimremain_ n vain, Mi'l1rd, en-
'tirely in vain;.ou:can'noth rauiali us; for
in us our God lives, and ourOodis everlast-
ing. You can gain our friendship; but our
'mountains are .ours  If you wish to serve
your country and  ot the capricesof a king,
suspend hostilitig and gainour fi aidship."
"Are you a prophet, xn athatyou pre-
dict the, future with soauch certainty?"
Ptolemy asked    1h luck of warfare is a
capricious thin"
There x no such thg as luck;, said
Jose, "there is an all-just iud all wineprov-
idence, and this'is in our favor; because we
are its apostles:There isa.powerin man
invincible.  domnipotent ooniction is its
name, Wjealth can.notuit violence can
not changelit, nor can armies kill itIt'nev-
er speps, neverrests orrlaxe s energies.
This power is/ours,' and Syria's armies are
sacrificed in vain.We must be victorious
it last."
" Did you sit inthecouncil of.the Deity,
noble prince," saiWtolemy, "'that you know
so certain what he willdo?" '
"No; mylord' I am no pophet n   di
sit1 in the 'council of the' .S iighty "'said
Josef "still' I kiow as the propets $lia
and Elisha did who anointed kings of Sydi'a
intt'ihname of this self same Providence,
that we Must be vicorioustat:olast  God
himself ould be put to shaie betorhis
creatures, his flies and worms,"if uch pious
devotion to his will; such self-dnia, self-
gaprifice and contempt of earthly aies.
such inspiration and manlyeouprag a aour
patriots show at everyoccasionshould not
be crowned withesuccesswith ultimate i ie-
tory over-anynriuaea of armed bodies.
Th refire' sire'we Lkno fo  craut 'tat
the ultiimiteoioto y niust'b eous
"And    st   be'~ 'rator, because the
victorfWill beyours? "Ptolemy'remared,
Aelyltand firmly.  -
I5Atraitor?! Tlhe gre' tPtoleny cn he
n6 tritdr  oia 'is       t etrxo  h   f&amp;s
thie' dictats of'hi ibetterniatare 'Tiawonidi
maycendeni i who violates rofa~odde'$
'but the ~miSj~   God a g nn  htil

'Is bated, aud t:ite'blind assassinisond mn
e4 whate ei;r dere he obeys.!"'he gene ofs
benefactor ;offhunnaqity 'is' the beload one
of'the 'Lord, whatever orders heviolated.-=
A traitor, is he .ho trays his owniconvic-
tion.'ie isa traitor, wh ahcpepts' a trout'
bo trary this better .natre, an4 while he
revolts 'against its ,tip rlations carries it into,
effect."         '  '
"May i.:be so, my noble prince,"'toleiy
said, :rising from his cushion  "'You have
convinced me that Iam a more grievous sin-
ner than my king.' Hear it then;i' I ama'
believer in your doctrines. JIalways was.-
Knew wron the Sons of the SeYirants'of Solo
I- do; my lord!' said Jose, a little surpri-
sedg for I am one of them.  Solomon 'I
my teachet,'the=temple is my home, and the
Architect of heaven, -and earth is my sole
and onlyMaster, before 'whom I bowwith
reverece.and humility.'
"Never did I forget this't said 1'folemy.
"Therefore I feelthatI .am wrong. I grant
you an armistile, rdwill plead your-cause
before the lin. Butiapprehend it willbe
too latea:iEre this, Nicanor andGorgiasi
may; have '  iied out my orders. There-
fore as quick as possible twill dispatch a
iessen'ger to them and:bid themistop. If
abttle was fought'and the Maccabees Were
beat n,:our position if desperate and imyiin-
teffeten'e will he 'iiaan."But ifno battle
was' fought y~tL~eai 'do you ;iuehsgood. If
the   bMacahee  weere vista-iois;ythen' tell
them tonbtsten over the Jordan without-de-
day: p nieBacchides; ehastide Edom, Am.
mon 'end 'Moab before Lysias can "act. 'I
will check every movement oni s  ipait' long
enboutho'givethem seficient time  fd'this
operation. If they defeat Nieanor, (orgias
and a6hdie    the kiig right yield, qnd
we iiiight'aeebe 6ur iur-pose. They in'st
knows tissena as ponsibie, still you d re
not e    've fan sthatI be'not suspe ed.
'Cf   k ' _,3 5 . r  a  ,:. .iid+Ns ri d'E~t a 7

tA;1E;;E
tory',for ferael..aeedipogta rh: t btld
bei ained by t, e s  e  ,+ adb_4
precious lives; Mig1ityi°is'thefswerd, t y
erf i are weli1directed armies; but in lthi er
than bothe,:the words of 1l I ef
' The pld m'a  lef tthe pele busyo ly
with on"e idea-.Whom   halI send?"'
could not think of a fit person to be enrd-it
ed with so   portant a:message. Still it
was inevitably necessary to find t1h i t
perso7dor the purpose. "Ori he w t tink-
ing of his .most important s ibje
Alcfyos met and added him: "'elt,
prince Jose ben Joe er, itgeaks our  Ii.
donamdoe ,iot exactly sit the  eod
You had    . tie- consultlie tbot 4bic
maittersh,I'anrender'yon bettesrvice r
uNN consuitation"eeessary,"psid .s,
laconicali  speclalyours'is 'not rel-
red."
'Whytnot r noble prince?' said Ielrhos,
with '. cunning 'mien. " Supposel feel"s
deeply ,interestedfin theb-Muse o&amp;J'r e,
you doyr but knowing best thespitinf ,the
age, I tecomrndate a Yy''ordsato=tie seper-
stitjons ofthe 'goveinorwin~rder to achieve
a tit6ty identical witlioiivrfavbrite'iopes.
suppose,1 Isay,d thusu' atemti6ogaiiWol-
emy in'my favor that 'M[ne a'hed~ aed,
I be laced-in his.position; and the axg -
merit of affaiis.be.d ntruted tpare, th
I ight safelysettle altdifti ult l ind6ufs.
vor. What preventato frfijadg Ish
thus?7 '     Y  '   t J,";  e a i S ~
"Sincerity," was the reply;'of 'theold..
man. ' place no confdeneoina  auwho
decries his peopleiand laetraysthi friend:t
"I betray ,onlyther ermigg iferael0
said Alcymos,-"bECause'hy.htrtyadrir
Pie. rI betray Menelaus  ndshis agh-
ter' tosaveIdsrael. 'I am'epaTning signer;
but, inactive weeping and's  ing carnot
,eradic'e -iy sits frohet  book ofAeinry.
Therefore I chose again the athof oetilty.
Knowigthe pi Ytiof the age and  ie pre-
judices of the Gentilesin be  6i it  I
'thble~fmethdtiobnlo'ioG46tofu, nrhe-
This t dbst uridr e jli revalhignbreidum
stances to obtain advantngedi *eMrui6


118                     THBE F
f'  Att;.  youshall be again 'the' prince of
5pnhedn,'    d saaid lymos".an&amp;peace
ahoj: be i StOred to my country."
4A ndthe sonusf Matethia?" Joseasked.
"Shelbe the captains of our hosts, said
S ru s, '.as they desire,- aid our indepen-
endein niattsof religion and justice shall
'What guaranteedo you give us?" ask-
ed Joe
""Myword, saidAlcymos," the word'of a
priest f the Lord, the wordof"
'A, liar; ' Jose, interrupted.F "I know,
yp4cyvgsr You are ot as wicked as
'you, are ambit ns, and you are even more
wick a ,than Amualek. o, poor creature,
and _ igh, roan, bowl ,and lie before those
,who k4winot wicked Alcymos. I know-
ypu. Nex year Palestine is thine or thy
hem is ours. Go I' despise thee."
Jose isappearedinto the next palace e-.
fprad'Alcymos could answer.' Shakinghis'
eists e exelsimed,  Thoushalt not escape
fy ,,rjgeandeP' then ,heleft the place.
e gorgeous: marble palace which /Jose
entered was 'the:residence 'o1 a descendant
ofathe prophet Elisha, whose meniory was'
highlyvenerated in Damascus. Therefore,
hotaithstanding the persecution, against the
Israelites, ,o e dared aolest the scion of
the 'ioly sianwho was 'supposed to be a
rophe'- himself. Here Jose rgsided apdn
having turned fBon the governor /he reti.-
red to his private apariments, to iefleet a
moment what to do next.,Gerson, the cour-
ageous:ladapproached the returning sage.
His counmtenance' was sunburnt, still- pale
aod suffering. His cloth was torn, and his
baredfeet:bled fron many a wound.t
Josie stated back on'beholding the lad in
so poor a condition  "What brings thee-
hiter, my  lad'
'tbelsha of Ashar is a ruin, my noble
master"aidthe 'lad.
" And m y seter and her daughters?" he
angipusly inquired.;
"Nu sisterjisfead," said Gerson, "and
,A. dughters,,Jphegine and Amiram are
gone Isto captivity.": Whte?   oeak
,Who?   Whepr Wihr??oe s-
"While'oeleatingtinfeast f Ab,"aidW
~iop~"I  ~   ith14mram to tlgefestive
*4o oyving party of the enemy camne

IRS T 07F
f shortly after, burnt Achshaf, killed the old
and -the children, and carried theyoung
away captives, 'know not whithe r
"God bath given and God hath taken
away,the name of God be praised " Jose
eiclaifined, painfully. "Just and righteous
art thou, 0 Lord, I shall not muriugr. =I,
the dust, shall not question thy wisdomkthy
justice and'mercy as thou, art our God and
our father." Sill the old sage wept on
hearing the account-ofthe carnage that fol-
lowed the festive hours. "How didst thou
reach Damascus?"
"Hunted like a wild beast I rain with vio-
lent speed through the forests, over moun
tains and rocks, through creeks and swamps,
ate berries and 'wild fruits 'and sleptwhen.
ever I felt too tired to walk. I heedednot
my bleeding feet or my wounded arms. and
hands by climbing. 1 slept during the day
in the vineyards and traveled at night till I
came in the 'vicinity of Damscus where
none cared any longer for the beggar boy.-
I hurried my steps, and here I am to-pray
you, to save lphegine and Amram.
"I will, my brave lad," said Josep hastily.
"But thou must return to our home." o
"The maintains swarm with enemies,,
said Gerson, "I can not."
"1 can not?" Jose slowly repeated. "My
lad, say so no more. Thou' canst if thou
wilt. ? Didst thou think in Zeredah that thou
mightest journey overithe mountains tO:Da
mascus,, alone,_ all alone, without bread, wa-
ter or fruits? Thou cant. Thou maust."
" Father Jose, my feet bleed, my arms
arid hands are wounded," said Gefaon; "I
feel weak, sickly, feverishly! how can.I re-
turn .just now?"
" Lad, knowest thou what it is tosave thy
country?" said Jose.
"My country? Ah, speak, father:Jo'e"
Gerson cried, "shall-I creep=to BeerShieba
on ,my arms and knees? '0,;eseech you
speak, father Jose, Ywhat shalli.do?'
"Thy feet bleed, my good lad," said Jose,
"' and thy arms and hands are tieded2'
"Let thpm be!" the boy exelairpe.. "I
feel'strong as a lion, healthy as a merr~oe
swift as a young 4epr' Speak, fatherdJase,
I'pray you torture memno lnger. 'Whean
I do to saveny cquntry!"
"And Ipegn e g/f
"'Quick, return $o liipsh ani ~l~a

THE MA
Maccabee,, Ptolemy will not come with his
atm y      .llhimtosmite every enemy of
Israel' on0both sides ofJodrdan. Tell him-
this, nearest thou.  'o earthly power'must
prevent thee ,from conveying this message
to Judah Maccabee; no mortal ear except
his, must' hear it. Death itself dare not,
wring, this';secret from thy bosom. Now,
clothe as thou pleases, eat and drink what-
ever thou wishest, take.with thee all thou
desirest. But hasten 'to carry my message
td Judah Maccabee, and thy star shall rise
high on Israel's horizon."           .
But;if 1 fail'!. Gerson cried.
"Fail! My boar, there must not be such
a word as fail," Jose exclaimed, powerfully.
"Kneel down, my lad, and I shall pour out,
my spirit upon thy head, that thou csnet
bo    - fail.'Thou must live and tell,'Judah.
Maceabee, that God's help is- nigh."
Gerson knelt down, Jose laid his hand'
upon his head and. blessed him. Then the
ld 'rose and claimede: "'Father Jose, I
feel' I catinotfail..
"May God blessthee, my noble son" said
Jose. ' "Hasten now, let nothing on earth
retard' thy steps; onward to the south,
straight' down to Mizpah, and envey my
message to Judah Maccabee."
IC HAPT ER X XVII.
THE-4RRIYAL.
Againi'the lapes and squares of, Mizpah
wer.orowded sot indeed with sunburnt
warriors, serious Levites and solemn priests.
This time the lanes and squares presented a
picture much  more variegated with 'gay'col-
.ors andidiversified with veils and head-dress-
es. Now, the' daughters of Judah, the
blackeyed beauties of Zion, had congrega-
ted atMizpah to welcomethe triumphantpa
triots1 and crown them with the laurels of
victory.' Ten thousand' beauties in festive
vestnent'heads, bosoms and arms orna-
mented with fresh flowers,"carrying wreaths
of laurels, had aessenibled at izpah. The
harpymbal, timbrel, triangle and flute
sonedd joyfully through'the happy ci-owds,
and slngs and dances 'jddddeed'the welcome
Th ptriots Iya a$~   a signal victory
-v ea~~        4a.The battle of

CCAB EE1S.                        IW
gle ended inan undisputed v..toyoth
Mtcaees.-  icanor =having se t   NA QrY
gias with a considerable 'foce and not
pecting an attack of the  triot th e jII*
shock of the advancing lines was terribly
effective. The disciplined ,armies bf S yrig
could not withstand the inpettious onslaugh&amp;
of the enthusiasticband. Afterasanuo
nary combat the Syrians fled inksouthein..
and- south-eastern directions, hotlypursued
by the 'Hebrews to the gates of:Gaza, ,sh.
dod and Jamnia.  Theyleft three thousand
dead and wounded on the freld otF battle
and retreated in donfusioif and 4sorer.-
Although the Syrians set there carp on ire,
stillthe victorious patriots found a rich spoil,
especia l n purpl espices,.gid and arm.
The merchants who came to pur case the
captive Hebrews were spoliited and dismiss'
ed' with their heads an&amp; beards have4
smoothly.
Simon with .his division was ordered to
pursue the retreating enemy, whilethe met
of thearmy wase commend ,'t Rgoghe
returninIg of Gorgis and i  aryf'6c{:the
'mountains. They .son returne; butgo
learning the defeat of their nain army
Gorgias couldno longeranage.i   e n
They fled eastwardin disorder anidGrias
was obliged to fellow them in  iginy.-
So the large army ef ,Syria was defeatednd:
those who escaped death were scattered to
the, four winds and discouraged. John and
his division pursued, Gorgias to th, Jordan
while Judah and Jonathan.returned to'Mis*?
pab.
The victory thus achieved;was eo great
and unexpected that there wuascaircely a
child in the whole entry that'4idnot sl
with joy. Night after night the ire from
the top of almost every hi'l anunce'to
the country the glorious victory. fn every
town and 'hanlet the white andbliue3calorg
waved from houses, treeand. ills.,     '
people everywhere celebrated feasts, r d
praised the sons of, Matatiar
returning from Emmaus to'Misp~h   g
erwhxelmed with mianifestationg ofitu1
aszn,
The center of all festivities at i~i
ereie~ as in Mizph "huaua~
ti i  r th  ir  &amp;t       ote;te


ep4hecorated wit the gay flowers and,
v rdan.folitge othe country presented'one
huete   ple 0f j. 'Strains of muSid and
sab   rdouiidddfrom     every 'quarter.  Ten,
thn eand.6Aidens' were assembled in thel
grand 'bh utuof receptoin      ebeeca led
themerry band1:followed by old and young;
aethley proceeded, dancing and singing; to
nyxuaetthe victope ~
a  ''  hey  roweded Rebecca sung and the
gria d ehotusrespohded thus':
Om4e y    gl1setIe albelove4Msyea are,
In a'4neewO  31e join since the victory is ours;
Not a lbiidletbn ifeav #i 'hr-fiasting shall inao
+r 'u eho h als b tfsinvg on israel showers,
leasing on Israel"showers-
Oh'       .de  in   ais now wieldin the a0ord,
Wj. th atphalaax'9f youths .In stern battle array ; .
AlL ourenemies aie falllng°a prize to our Lord,
WIrew 'e i tg ning atd danciisg.-re~joici 8 i play,
;Whi we' re ingin ad   cing-rejoi i g in'pla.
Spe the owr ,relag ing al 'er the ,green- $cds,!
~" 'And the roses'seens llhing to wtdconse'sweeL spring;
So our'hearts are expanding while Israel'&amp;p'6d1nshields
On the Maedabees' breasts ih defence of during,
; Qua  4 j4 cabees' breasts 'iandeeeeofus ring'
Q,,:t w°hl sT hee  9huvah,fq'r 'grauting to earth1"
The bold c feature galled  ar, .td inspires 'wit love
' o~ fa blons, nh;,  asing thei'nansers give birth..-
*ea""ewi*hln   ryerning-we're sillyuuoug h
riare 4w adhng, we'r yearing-we'resilly en g
ea tb lanlbe, sN shyly, we're liftitig our eye,
e'4  '    44e ea Igait othtel youth'we adore;
he1ehld him s' o chruig-we, sing and we sig l'  1
Tobeknwit~knwth t we knoW nothingta et
win to know,  t    no   ot
Zn a dape, Qalpe virgins, let's merrily foin;
ooh our bniers victoriously do watve in the breeze;
Y ungh our lovrs be absent, full nimbly theloin,a
Shall be restless suspgnding--suspending to please,
S'9 Sha lbe restles ss pe lng-=-suspendlin'g to please.
Pmepar$ a prepared the q.~eess 111load the dan*ce l
The dance, the dance, the dance.
Ouroice awoke;dame nature from her trabee,
Her-trance, her trance, her trance.
The songsters on their boughs,
5upplythe'lmbiel'srain;l
Thsugnrlagidson our brows
Shalibloonrafresh again.
The'l rk attuned her voce 'o thrill the heart,
,. '.  hoear'; the Heart', the, heart ;
The queen is dancing since Hle's Israel's guard,
,Her guard, herguard, her guard,.
'When the Maccabbee adndoathan arrived
with the aanced guard, Aingig iant das
oeI   was' inipossible.   Tie shouts of the
6iittitude drowned evry ' other voice, '1he
y4~  oncourse presented a livig5 roaring
an E~vidg ocan. Some danced, jumped,
ledgeend'lpped hands, while others' seiz-
-x-4
ed upn th e warriors and carried them'bn.
~~iifbouders, atid others agaiui sof-eahed
fthefrr ethulsiasum  acmeents'o dirng
mtiegs.   here wesi     lai~dt68y  elcdxi
Zpe6b'$$$   % Tirthouiliidl artssjboke wit

1ItS' OF
throats of brass and -lungs of'iron. The
varriors&amp;were  literally carried through the'
lanes of; Mizpahto-the different 'houses fur-
nrshed for their reception. '
Mother 'Miriam 'received 'hr°heioid sons'
in the words of 'their deceased father,: "Just
is our cause, strong are our arms, "and 'our
God is nigh."  Embracing thema with' ma=.
'tOrnalaffedtion she exclai'med H'Iowrhappy
aiMotler am I, my sonsare Israel'sa'redeem-
ers! "a   .        '
"The love, the 'patriotism, mother, which,
thou hast instilled into'the hearts of -thy
sons," said Jonathan, "bear fruit in proper
season,. Thine; thine is the; glory, iiext to
God;: for.thou didst teach us to be men:and-
Israelites."  '
"Your :father,my 'son, your- greatands
glorious father did;" she staminered, with
tears in her eyes.  His 'memory be: bless.
ed."
.Judah was too much move to, be :able to
speak. - When he regained theimastgry over
himself, he laid down the lion manner at the
feet of - his mother and kneeling down he
said, "Mother, sister, this banner is still
spotless,.thank God.- You entrusted it to
'my hands apd I bring it back fromthe fourth,
battle spotless and glory'-ecrowned. J  is,
mother's love, sister's affection that sanctifi-
ed it. No enemy could capture it."
"Thank heaveui, no enemy could enfeeble
the hands' of Judahl i Miriam 'exclaimed.'
.Outside of the Maccabee's home the dew
monstrations of the peoplel 'lasted' all eight.
In the house however, Judah.and Jonathan
sat quietlfy'b the side of their mother and
with th ir wisest brother, Eleszardiscussed
what to do net. ''wo'mighty armies, aug-'
meited by the, fragmeiits of the tir1, were
still in the field against them. , The wrath,'of
the Syrian'1rulerit could not be, doubted,
must" drive him now to mad attempts against
the patriots. Simon and 'is division were
considered' strong enough to; protect the
southern front iers against the defeate 'arny
and the Edoniits, Jon and lii Jobst on
the Jordan would "oe the ariines'of Gor-
gra Timotheus and facchide~ long'enugh
thit Juidah and Jonathan could'meet hes.
cond army expected to egme from Cel s~
ni~derth'e ormand ofth g overor emy
Bliit ws   ednt' tin Jun a        ''
witlib  ~ the jrm    thtfit'           0

T ,MACCABEflS.                             -.12
were obliged to meet an enemy much more the boy Gerso. ."I have a messag toJ
numerous and-better officered' than the one dah Maccabee," said Gerson,
-us ,defeated. Thq position;of I he patriots  Who sent thee, all aske
was still highly'precarious. ,Th4 schezte of voice.
Eleazar was Without delay to take possession  "Jose' ben Joezer," was the reply.  He
of the, passes of Upper Gallilee, leave the sent me from. DamascUs."
command' there in the handsof Jonathan  "Speak, my sen," Judah said.'
and for Judah to fall into Phenicia take   "Only to Judah Maccabee shallI sp eak,'
possession of the 'principal: passes and for- said Gerson.
tresss, and thus prevent the ariyT of Ptol-  "I am Jdah," said he, "speak, my spa
emy fronpassing the northern monntains.  Gerson fell down upon one knee and kisa
Joeph -andgAsaria, two valiant chieftains ing the.garment 'f Judah,;he exclaimed,
should 'organize another -army'for the pro- '' Thank heaven that I ampermitte4to be-
tectiori of the contr y against the different hold the, co-ntenange of my-peopl' sl
Syrianigarrisons remaining in the fortified ous captain, the greathwarriQr of theLord."
cities. Eleazar expected that after the bril- Jonathan, observing 'the embarrassment;Ppf
liantvictoryjust'achieved thousands of Is- his =brother, who was not used tosucom-
raelsould flock'to the standards of freedom plinentsvbade the boy to riseand topspeak
and augment the army.r Havingnow plenty as it becomes a soxi' of Israel.
of arms and money, and an'organized arnay  "Idar ingt'uttermy message i:the prps-
full of'spirit and couage Eleazar 'doubted ence of .anybody 'except ,Judalh Maceabee,'
otithednal success against all:the' armies said= Gerson; "for the prince co handed:
inathefield.:      ",     ','          ' No mortal ear except Judah's m ust hearit,
'Judah/howeer, das opposed totIle scheme death itself dare not rig this secreV frpmi
if dividing4his ay into fo r'disconnected thy boso'"  '    '              '
bodies, feared the rashriesS and incoi'sider..  tudah ts Ge son bytehandanl ed
rek9ssiesf  pophad Aioiria, 2and him ;'into an, joining apartment.Here-
'thought' Jlhhs 'Niny inssugllient tdoprotet Gersottsaidu "the prince charged me to tell
the eastern froities against Timotheus anad you, Polemy wilknot comewith his army.
Bacisideahod re supported by the Am- Smite every enemy of Israel on both sdes
mntsMoabites and other tribes; but of 'Jordan. 'IThis and no'more ismyes
w                               ,noniit '            ajinn     atetes. ' 2 Hes-
old 'rot e offer 'ye a plah' ation, espe- sage ? EEhaustedGersn sank down ands
till-y  in as 'tie hosts t'p Tinothefs and exlaimed,; " Thak heaven, priseto The
aG cohides 'ere'united' beyond the Jorda  on high, I have done myduty." ,
and ii 6nnection with 'the'ddomites &amp;ho, ' Judali clasped himni his arms and eo er--
he juMtly concluded,'would invede the coun- odanhis 'cetntenance wth kisses.m'yThoni
try sinultaniofslyWith Ptolny. The fio nt art xha iste'd my so," 'he-saidnd thou mi t
ofiohin's arieyewas too mad11l to prevent this. have reff'renits and rested Thy people
ilyns' he best aht of thdlight  lsend e eeply indebttts fothiS seide.
'ous     'andrejeutin g  dheines"without ""Arid thy stir  ha;ve 1oiee'igh. o  nelis
agreeing' upon tny.  't;hoJi                   Ghs      in  i    "   tlink s ince-
h I tell'thee iedst see Judah dacee told me."wi'
thiveri ine," "sotreboy seeame out-  "It shall, iby tN sw  of aman, t  al!"
side, with a femmie voice. The sentinel   da   ustedze  mo.
emanstiated: 'eUle opsrsaid hel , "none' Geis.a n 'aving rhe rtakn  f'th refresh.-
adad telamittell befo'einanrg dawns:''i ment reache  imrett or ed -theice''
2    thi ebe talf        "/f'Is1r ael; 'and  i  the 'name  o hu s  fam1y  wlierb  he cpi' ''i e   h  'eg-
theeinge ose  n  Joeer"the-ntrudr sage to temso exc9%ads           pin-,
I'ed"t deandaIdnmission"'  'a"     dah, "ye advance tothr     f
"  mk electric shod this' operated' on  "Jonathan?" erd asfdV'A'46 11h
ide eithelioise evhey:rse si    ltan, must' 'ex  ona an.
rly'nre  ter'    satps aid hn onehaers 'avringul&amp;1 mena  of  Aherefrnd.


"

I12                          THE    FIRST    OF
at chshaf, the same party that burnt'the ram," said Gerson; "I knew my parents
place,. massacred the old and the children but they died when "I was quite young.--
aid carried away the adults into captivity. Amram took me to Zeredah into the house
.Aram  and Iphegine are among them."  of Jose. ben Joezer, 'and there I. lived in.
"Whither were they taken?" Jonathan peace and'hsppiness till the late occurrences
and Rebecca asked, simultaneously.  ,'  drove me from my home. I have done my
"I know' not," said Gerson. "In tli duty, let me now rest awhile to work again
bloody confusion I'escaped, to'go to Damas- for Israel and its friends."
cus, where Jose ben Joezer now abides, to  " They must be with the army of Gorgi'
informhim of the misfortune. He promised as," said Judah, "dispatch a -messenger to
me to save them. But thou, Jonathan, thou brother John and inform him of the fact----
art bound in duty and honor to again rescue But as for us, we must cross the Jordan and
poor Iphegine from the hands of death; to attack Bacchides without delay. Jose ;ben
rescue my benefactor, Amram, who' came to Joezer succeeded in arresting the northern
protect poor Iphegine'-Why are you sur. army;,now let us chastise our enemies in
prised?  I know every thing  Iphegine Edomx, Ammon and Moab, wicked Bacchi-
tol4 n e a story that roused my blood to in des and proud Tinotheus. The Lord will
dignation and I heard Amram say to Iphe- smite them as he did the rest of ourenemies.
gine: 'As truly' arid affectionately as you I am desirous to march to Edom in connec-
love' Jonathan, I love his sister Rebecca.- tion with brother Simon, through. Edon to
When they, were yet- the 'children of the Moab and- give battle to Timotheus. Let
simple mountaineer Matathia, Jonathan lov- brother Jonathan join brother John and
ed you as 'Rebecca loved me.. Now they are unitedly attack Bacchides and Gorgias at
the glory-crowned heroes, the beloved cap- the same time, and let us meet again in the
tains, nay, the cherished princes of the peo- land of Ammon. The connectionbetween
ple, 'and Jonathan dare no longer love the the two armies' must be kept up this side pf
daughter of royal Menelaus, as Rebecca Jordan by volunteers whose..positiop mpst
eannoionger lovethe indifferentSamaritan!' be so that it continually threatens Jerusalem
So I heard him say, and this is my second and covers our rear. This is my plan.-
message." What objections do you urge, brother Elea--
"It is too much, O Lord," Rebecca cried, zar? "
in accents ,of' wild pain. "Pride, haughti-  :"None," said he. "This message 'ehan-
ness! 'thou knowest it, my God, I was never ges the whole affair. Jose ben Joezer has
guilty of those sins."                 done his duty, it is now for us to do ours."
"Be calm, my beloved sister," said Jona- . Next morning messengers arrived from
than, grasping' her hands, "I shall rescue various places beyond Jordan and' from
him and' her even if they are in the grasp Edom,'who informed the patriots-of the suf-'
of Satan. I will, here before God I vow it, ferings of their brethren in those countries,
I shalldeliver them both from the embrace and implored the assistance of the Maccabee.
of deatW and convince ,them that the scions A council of war was immediately convoked,
of Matathia are actuated byhoble motives." and all agreed to hasten to the rescueof' h'
"This is the glorious Jonathan, Is'ael's oppressed in those countries, and augment
soaring eagle with the wide-spread wings!" the army by the hebrew warriors of those
Person exclaimed. "0, ye know not how cities.
kin# that Amram, and how amiable that   The        .'festivities at Mizpah wercontinued
Iphegine is; ye know not how intense their for the extvthe ays.h Noe continued-
suffeing, how violent their pain of distp- ginr thapt threes dangr Tos toulde
pome   t island e  new iyuwldntmetjyet.. Everybody appeared to enjoythe
haeaadndte                           happiness of the moment without thinkiMn
thou  aremany things, my son, which of the future. Also Judah with. himsr
t~oesl   nt'e,    said  Jonathan.-  ous  ien  smiled freq enl   ~tte  6j1~~
aorphan boy brought up by Am- was not inclined to sing or dance and seutt

-U

TaiE    MACCABEES.                              123
frequently the company of her secluded .         H APT E R   X X V I I I.
brother Jonathan, who appeared to ponder     IN A PERILOUS PoO ITIoN.
over some great scheme.  "I have dispatch-
ed hemese  tobrthe Jhn  ".idh  In the smbterranean- apartment of the tem-
ed  the :messenger tQ brother John," said" hepeofVnsiJrsamweidArm
.              ipie of Venus in Jerusalem we'find, Amirama
to Rebecca, 4'and he certainly will'ascertain loaded with heavy shackles and chainehto
their whereabouts .Then I will rescue la         "°ihhev  hcls n      hm
thei whereauts. hey wyill urerhe the floor like a ferocious beast. Opposite
themif. 1 must fight every Syrian under the him we recognize Aspasia who is _,rined
sun.--Bt sister Rebecca is at not unjust of with a dagger and keenly eyes the wretched
thee, that -thou hast -repulsed, Amram? He man.                         %
is no coward and no enemy of Israel. A   ltVou arein myAmram"ih
sacred oath binds him not to fight against .       rimy power, Amam        sh
t  k '  ie.       - j-               said, with a triumphant sneer, and none
the" kng s ,friends., A just' mari never vio-Y             hald      wl     d
lates an oath. Sister Rebecca! were it not can save you.  ou s  o my    lor   e
.the..and him to overcome thywish- like a mad dog.  No reply was made nor
b, fow                                  did he look on her. After a.short pause
es to' soo him a 'hero; and follow, the , affec-
she continued, " You have desecrated the
tons, of thy heart? Speak,-my beloved Re- she ofthe g   oddeseca     the
.  ~,                                temple ,of the great goddess. I am ;the ac
n       ,"   d   .   user, witness and judge; your doom 'is
esus sa ntheg    ow, saide.-- sealed. Remember this and discard pride
' Rescuehun, and then I will decide. But and ob tinacy."  Amram made no reply nor
brother Jonathan, is it safe to believe the would he cast a single glance at the abom-
words of Alcymos and destroy the happiness unable wemand She continued after awhile,
of thy life? 'How kn oest thou that he did " either tell me where my child is; and
not maliciously deceive thee, to make thee swear a sacred oath not to betray me or you
miserable, and crush poor iphegine forever? di
Didstthouthinkof tis?"ie the death of a contemptible wretch."
"Your child is in excellent hands," said
"   d," said Jonathan painfully; "but Amram;- "it dies one hour after me."
Iam a priest of the Lord. The Law forbids  " ProvidedI let the, know that you di-
the priest to, marry one who is suspected ed,', said Aspasia; "for no uninitiated eye
evenof impurity. Now she is a captive in can penetrate into this prison."
the handi of vile and impure fheathens.- "Except-my friends," said Amram, "they
The Law considers every captive woman know all the bloody and demoniac designs
unfit to be the wife of a priest,.  She is lost of Aspasia, and know her secret dens of
to me, even if Alcymos belied her. - I will crime."
rescue her, but I dare love her no more.-  "Let them penetrate through these walls
Sister Itebecca, I dare love her no more.-- 'if they can, let them rescue you, if they
Let the heart break, or pine away in ever- dare," said Aspasia. "I am certain of mpy
lasting anguish, 1 can not love the suspect- victim"
ed :naiden; I can not press to my bosom'the  '"And I am certain of my vengeance," he
captive woman. My hopes are gone, gone interrupted, "Your child dies one hour
forever. Thine flourish yet; crash then after me and oie hourafterward its bleeding
not with presumptuous hands; let my-tears corpse shall be.sent to you. Such 'are my
be thy, warning example. Crush,,not thy arrangements, all.your bloody ,chenes can
own. heart.                             not alter them.. But let me tell you, if I am
"Brother, dearest beloved Jonathan," she spared'and Iphegine dies by your co-opera-
cried, "I c   n not be happy if thou art tion my arrangements will undergo no
miserable. I will bethink' myself I will change"
do as thou advisest ma. BuEt let me speak -" Terrible and cruel man, why would you
also to thy heart.. Rescue thegm and; send rather die and tear-the child from its niotly-
Ipegine to me. Woman looks deepest, in er's bosom than live and restore my child to
hesister's heurt. 'I will find out her guilt, me? 4eak, daraoniaexman! why would yg
ifhope rets upon her, 6r. I will ascertain break 'the heart of a mother and pgeals se
he inocenc beyond a doubt.' Go and res- that diabolic pleasure astehe expensido
ogn tem."                               your own life? Devils and furies nevia


124                 -        "T WEFIRS       OF
vented so malicious a scheme; a man dies to Agait he tried the strength of his voice.. aIn
break theheart of a mother."         .rushed one of.the guards andcinquirei ter
Glad am I that the rays of the sun pen- the cause of the noise. "The lady'fell ever
tr te notinto thisade," said Amrm; yonder andrsays- nothing,"-said Amram.-
£for his brilliant countenance would be coy- Thetnan attempted to raise:her but she *as
ere .withshame before the lie, that Aspasia apparently dead.,-
orizes Amram. She wh'o poisoned her      "Quick, quick,", said the man,"s"he 'hears
hus nd, betrayed her people assassinated not. Tell, what can I do for thee?'")'
her friends, and abjured her'God, moralizes  "Open the doors.of my prison?." said
me, the impotent witness of her crimes,- Amram. c              r.
Let ni 'teI you, Aspasia rather I and that  ".Is not in my power," said the man.-
clid shall die than for you to'enjoy onemo-  "Open my chains and begone," Amram
nent the happiness of a mother, of which said, almost breathless. The ian obeyed
yoru e so dcidedly unworthy-a joy which instantly. -"Son of the Servants of Solomon
God etows ionly on tie pure and good.-- be careful," said he, and loosened his chains
he Sild isso "beautiful, so kind, virtuous and disappeared. With lightning speed Am-
and pihre;'rather'I 'and the child shall 'die ram undressed Aspasia, threw off his gar-
than expose 'it to'the hands of'sobloody a ments and the next minute was covered with
mother. 0, itis so beautifil and' innocent, her clothes, veil, cloak and priestly attire.
so kind'and anmiable, it must' never know ",Ah, she is not quite dead,' said he,,lifting
that Aspasia is its mother; it must not go up the dagger for the fatal blow;,but his
into the world stigmatized as the offspring of arm sank; "I shall noti kill the wretched
to gbdin able a Woman. You can not have woman, she naust die the tenfold death 'of
your child." ' '                      remorse and self-,contempt."  Then he, imi-
Like a fry she insulted and struck Am- tating the gait of Aspasia stepped through
ram, screaming' at the top of her voice, '' I the halls of the temple, waved with his hand
will beat thee till thout tellest me where my two servantsto follow hini, and thickly' veil-
child is."  Aiaran's hands were shackled, ed he went through the streets of Jerusalen
his feet were chained to the Iloor, he could to the palace of the 'governor wheie o hwa-
not defend himself. He could, only speak ved' again with 'his band intimating the ser-
and he used this weapon' of self-defence.- vants to return to the 'temple. When they
"Beat me until thy murdered husband call were gone he bent his steps toward'the pal-
.thee before the judgment seat of 'the Most ace of the, higbpiiest where .he demanded
High, I shall still curse thee and not'tell admission as Aspasia, the highpriestess of
where thy child' is." In her boundlessefuryjVenus;-      -
she approached Amram' too -nigh, he,:like an 'Aspasia laid swooning in the subterranean
enraged bullock, struck her breast so vio- cell till she recovered, which'was'only ifter
lently with, his head, that she was flung to a good while, as she had commanded none
the opposite side' of 'the apartment, where of -her servants or guards to follow her into
she, taggered and fell fainting to the floo ; the cell. -'On recovering, the lamp *aso'ex-
the blood flew through her month and nos- 'tinguished' and' she knew not'where shewas:
trials.                  -              She attempted to cry but he rv3oice failed,--
'Ah, infernal serpent, did I crush thee! " Thenshe tried to'rise but she: coulduiot.--
Amram 'exclaimed, gnasIing his teeth;t but "Dead and buried," she groaned 'faiitly,
she made' no reply. "Rise,' Aspasia," he and dropped'her head in coldadespair  "then
cried'."there is 'a husband .torbe poisoned, again sre stretched out'her hands and tough-
friends to be assassinated, a people 'to. be ing the cold'stones she shiddeiedk ahn nd
betrayed, aG'od tobe abjured!' Rise,.bloody groandd again, '"Deadand budetd." "So'line
weoman!"a She stiri'ed not." " Ah, she hears lid' until the ,jailoi' after sUnie bought the
not even 'this'quintessende 'of her life, shie sdnfn'li iefsnr     niead
mustbe dead..&amp;Dad? "No,' she dare not die hianty merup, tbioutnt'pineangh dla
yetjshe must not yet go 'to 'eterial"aamnta- in the' feebilays df the faint light, ang'hi
'tiinO' liHe cried at tihe top of 'his'Voice' fori formi' i'endereda'shadow-liked bytebi
belpbut' none 6f theegurd heeded hinE clothes, she moaned forth, with an  6ia

Tit ,    MACCABE,3CCA  B                        I;S
heart, "Mercy; mercy,..thou messenger of over, the city to:catch the escapaQ 4im
thegliostsHigh; drag me not before=the Om-  When her ag 1ago wa oveghf
niscient Judge:"                        terrible effect of the-seetes through dioh
The jailortwas not a little astonished on she had just passed, andlaid quietly oq.,
finding a half naked wpman instead of his couch. She reflected on the events, and'
prisoner. .: Thinking of the scolding he, found herself, exposedto the    Ijallr  If
would get of Aspasia he turned pale with Amr m and the jailor accused .her before}
anger and cried, passionately, "Who opened Philarches, she thought, none  knows what
these gates for thee, accureed wonitn."  the consequdnees might be.-'The - j ior
Aspasia groaned terribly and could.make must;perish before he can; speak, she deter.
no reply". The:jailor }was very angry and mined, and Ainram must be brought babk,,.
scolded her niost recklessly " Confess, crim- Then she thought againof her child whieh.
inal woman, confess, child of hell, that I Amram had said was' so beautifulesokind:
throw thy sinful flesh before the hungry ra- and innocent, and she, leaped down -from-
vens."                                .'her couch and with the strengthiof a lioness=
"Mercy, mercy," she groaned, " I poison- she dressed and commanded thejador into
ed my husband, slew his brother and was her presence. He came, she examined and
the abettor to five other cases of assassina cross-examined him, but could learn nothing
tion. 1 confess, I repent, mercy, mercy."  concerning Amram. "You stay in prison-
hejailorshuddered o1 hearing of such till your prisoner be found" she 'command-
hideous*crimes. He thought first it was one ed, and-he was led away.
of the' riestessef whose crimes had been  When late in the evening her' uardse
discovered, his prisoner was removed- with- turned without tidings of Amram, hdei fury
out hii knowledge and she was put in his was boundless. )She sent to the goternoief
place. He therefore, advanced toward her the city, acquainted him with th "p rticu-
to offer her'the frugal meal, when he recog- lars Wofthe' events narrated, as far as she
iized As' isis. "It is the machination of would cominunicate thaen, and reused
hell," the maneclaimed, "aae you'notl.a- him.to. havethe:man arrested, as he ,du
dy Aspasia! What ails you my lady?- certainly return a spy to the rebels.
Seak''speak     t hthas overcome you, that could be  caught, she believed, as th  gtea
youths expose yourself?" 'of Jerusalem were well closed and g4Qdgl,
Sherecognized her serve  t, the 4 ailor,  The governor sat in. the palace, of, the
and stood amazed and"mortified before him. highpriest and togethewith him  reented
Q'kly lead me to n rate rom,'  he over the disasters of the army.  '':Niea
commanded, and the' jailor obeyed. Reach- and Gorgias defeated,' he explain id. "
lng that she sunkon her, couch ravingly is simost incredible; such annar1ygurnJer-
mad and notwithstanding the exhaustion suchleaders. to be defeated by a ho t of aui
and the pain she suffered in her breast she trained and undrilled rebels I Mars uinself
struck the .Arum so violently that all her mustbe ashaued of his calhng  ni'.A es
serants assembled. "Treason, demoniac trained in the seh     f th gretAe     er,
treason " she; crie d; hoarsely. °' I am b- andcommanders used to victoryare.routed
traded by my own ;ervants. Woescupd by a handful of outlaws and oteasts :I
the p rsoner?. "peak, "onsgnrus slaves, who knowenoL'whit to think ond;the subj ect;
rescued:the prisoner?"            ,   ,StiU lPtolemy goiuessnot with hissecedIrt
Node'made oteply,.for every onentrem~ my lie~A ls0 appears tafear theai
ble: efoe he.fuios ~mnn.Theat atthcksiofrthe rebels. Are we allbabesJ
tending physician requeste&amp;heito beware cowards thst shepherds pddasdtadyve
if' any nde 'gitation;,ree6xaiiended fo her us to leair Wy m  dvke Lod; do
gnietude ad repose; 'lt'B hies inrdfd him  Iglmy notxave?'t
t'.ttidhiagdodi dinntiliern'serhantA. 'She' '"t146o tt;my lor, a ad M liu '
enketie di'guardians .ofdthe teiiugle' o "' informed hiof. oif drears P IO
ii r~saned~      ied' th'ed or what It is 'lmost ertailt Nihs :*  cai~~4
hid'dhenda    1hey niritdy'difrj$&amp;sed the dityr'for threda@ if hyt~~~~


THE  Fins ior

foVde against it; still Ptolemy 'moves riot,
notha he as yet commanded Timothets or
Bacebides 'to invade the country. It is ne-
eessa'y for us 'to send' him another deputa-
tion."
"So I believe,"' said Philarches, "and so
I will do 'with your consent, my divine lord.
But if the rebels attackthe city, I shall cer-
tainly carry out mysecheme.of dragging ev-
ery child and hoary person to the walls,
and Threaten to destroy them, if the rebels
advanced against the walls. 'I commanded
the soldiers to catch as many old folks- and
children as, they could get in the country,,
and- we have; already a goodly number."
"The poor children and helpless, hoary
men!' 'Menelaus'painfully exclaimed.
"Let the rebels have mercy on -their
own," said Philarches.
So, they will, I have no doubt," said
Menelaus; "but who authorized youto tear
the children from their parents, or the hoary
persons;from their kind nurses, keep them
here .n the city like a parcel of oxen to be
used in. case of a siege. My lord, you go
too fart You drive this people 'to madness,
you 'force them to succor the very revolution
whc'to disarm is your duty."
wi Well done, divine highpriest," said Phi-
larches "one should think, you memorized
your speech for several'days. But I know
my duty. It appears to me you sympathize
a' little too much with these' rebels. I do
not. Still if you can find better means of
defenc'I' will give up mine. When shall
we send our deputation to Ptolemy?"l
"wTh-morrow morning I 'shall be ready,"
said Mehelaus. "Meanwhile I will pi-epare l
a message."          '
So .will I," said Philarches,,cunningly,
and bowingprofouhdly he left the room.'
"i understand the serpent.'that hisses as'
Aspasia' teaches hin," Menelaus soliloqui- d
zed' "and I shall not fail ii informing Ptot-
emy of . the , fact.- -.Poor, poor children,
wretched 'fathersund mothers! Howimpo-. e
tent ' 1Ithat' I can not:help 'you.-.And lI
wby'not? ,Can 1not open thefr pi on, open g
tholee to the Maccabeese and save the city
of my fathers?-JIa, then Menelaus plays I
tho~zgeqgngart of ampiodg keeping and re- c
PR)rsnney, pitie4 pydthe'goods and con- A
tlyg    .bythp,'ngituge Nlod, mnust be n
Mjest      ,hjs 'au   ill eoon come to a C

close, then J-am again the lord of this coun-:
try. If God has no mercy with those child-
ren, those old and hoary people who suffer
here, why must I have ?--And my own child,
my dearly beloved Iphegine. Ah, the war
will come to a close and she will be restored'
to me. I an feeble 'and impotent -now as a
child; but I shall once more be the mighty
lord of this country."-
A servant came in and informed the high
priest, that his fool had. returned, but none
knew how he camel either into the'city or
this palace, as the gates of both were well
barred and -vigilantly guarded. On com-
mand of the highpriest, Amram was usher-
ed into his presence..
"Where is. my daughter?"   Menelaus
asked, with a powerful voice..
Amram had assumed so idiotic a visage
that none could suspect his genuine stupid-
ity. He answered instantly: "She is where
she should'not be, but l know not where she
is, nor does Ashmadai know it."
" Speak intelligible words," he command-
ed, " knowest thou where my daughter is?"
"I know where she is, but I know not
exactly .the place," was the answer. " But
what of a .place!  Achshaf also was a
place."
"Does she live?" was the next question.
" No, she sighs andsweeps," the fool said.
"Then she lives!" Menelaus joyfully ex-
claimed. "The happy live, the hapless
groan," said the fool; "I have seen it in
Achshaf and all the way do*n to Jerusa-
em."
" What of Achshaf! tell m ee what thou
knowest of my daughter," -Menelaus com-
manded.
"In Achshaf the people danced, sang anid
made music, then they 'were kiled-" said
Amram. "The- was 'Tpheine as-&amp;shma-
iai had said, and theie she sat and wept."''
"Gracious God grinit ne patience to bei-
his man's sloth and confusion! 'Menelaus
'xelaimed. "Answer now directlyandbrief..
yto what I ask thee? Didst thea.see Iphe- .
ine at Achshaf'.                }
s"As shegwasthere when Iwas there coul
help seing her?" said Amiram., " A
urse on them who diled the people f
Lchshafw Ruins,.seorpses, anda biood ggk
ow the sp4 whpre beautiftuldehshda tod
urs on the furies who destroyed 4ehand .

TnE     M AC CABJES .
"Stop! Tell me where did Iphegine go   "Nor can I explain it," saidLig "  s
from  Achshaf?" Menelaus inquired.     not I but she who cameto this place, a
"She went nowhere," said, Amram. it is not'she but I who stands here;s tl1 e
"Like other people she was ragged along and I can not be- one. It is enohantmen$,
from place to place with bleeding feet and it i Ashmadai's work.'.'
the hands wounded by the shackles."      The wLole palace was meanwhile tl iKyn
O} my unfortunate child!" he exclaimed, in a state of alarm. It was evident to the
painful.                              whole host of servants that Aspasia Hadten-
'That's it, that's it, now I knowit," said tered the palace,, none had seen liiego;out,
Amram hastily, "so all the women of Aeh. still he ws found 'owher'e, and nn  the
shaf cried. Curse on then who killed their news came that she was lying deadlyfik
children."                             on her coachh in the temple of Venus attth
"Who were the satanic assassins? "- other end' of the city. The servants' not
Menelaus cried, vehemently.            knowing what to do sent to their master to
"I know not. Thby looked like Syrians," inform hiren of the peeuliar occurrence. The
said Amram; "but the people called them first servant of Menelaus having' told him
the servants of the -highpriest, and. the dy- the peculiar story, he examined other 'ser-
ing and surviving cried: Our blood-may fall vants, 'but heard always the saine fact that
on the apostate, the fiend, the foe of Israel." Aspasia came; none saw her go, even notbite
" silence, thou terrible liar," Menelaus sentinels at the 'doors, still she was'lying
thundered. "Speak, wretch, who taught deadly sick in another quarter of the city. =-
thee these lies."                      Now confusion itself became confused; for
Amram looked as stupid and frightened Philarches came and% communicated the
as any other-idiot violently assailed by his occurrences in the temple of Venus, and
superior: The highpriest was again deceiv- added that Aspasia at the same time precise-
ed in him, and spoke kindly: "-Tell me with- ly was seen walking 'to the governor s and
out fear, who said so?"                then tothe highpriest's palace, still she nev-
" The people, all the people said so," was er left the temple.
the .reply; "but it must:be a'lie, as wehave  At this juncture the alarm, was sounded
no highpriest besides you. . It is a lie.- from, all the towers. ",The enemy, the er-
The people also are a lie. It is true that all emy! " it sounded like a-conflagration ear-
things are one grand lie. Then:all of Ach- ried furiously ondhe wings of howling
shaf were ,killed or, captured. The. dead storm.  " To arms, to arms!' Philarches
were not taken along, but all others were tied cried, and rushed out of the highpriest's
and dragged onward to'a place I know not apartment followed by all his attendant.-
its name. Then, Iwas sent, to Jerusalem Ina few 'minutes the wholescity was alarm-
and Iphegine was sent hence, because lord ed, every body rushed. and rnl .andsnone
Aleymosscommanded so.                  knew whither' Confusion and"consterna-
"Alcyinos?- What sayest; thou?"  Men- tion reigned everywhere andnoneknewthy.
elaus asked.                          .Now the soldiers smarched.over the brl4ge,,to
" Aspasia wanted Iphegine pnd me,'"said Mount Zion ,and the multitude.lenthir
Amram; "butlord Alcynoswanted Iphe- steps-thither.°The night. was pitch d k;
gine, So Iwas sent hither and shesthither." an equinoctial storm roared'j'rom _the: West
This wassa$ffient for ',tenelaus. He and drowne4;e voices of moa.  ttgr-
knew that hiandaughter lived, and Aleymos ed.frou adistanoe like-an earthbqak ,ite
would -doher.no harm. So heinquiredeno an angry hell. Through this,terribl  es
further.a After some consideration he asked cert of the raged l emenssthle  nentspif
in, a harsh tone,." How 'didst thou come to the Uebrew watriors soundedso powntal'ly
the city iankintorthis palace " Telciak, Teruak; and again and epeye4lygg
"Idid net ome te this city," said he, " I thoughlthe walls of:'Jerichp should fallggiin
way 4ragg~d hither. I did not come to this 29 Mount ion thenp mqlti4t4p
pal#Nee buAsesi eame."    ,             M '' highp  f ejtait0  t~4~~
I 4#Ednot, understand this," said hewa        Medkef
Meneass'                              xepeatedeetptrsee okheglying4 il~ #


THE    Fnst      Or'      -
IR                                          O     of Achshiif; and'rceinde d Menalaus of tied and gagged the old servant. When the
l his sins; whe 'suddenly -the door unher- morning dawned not.ai enemy' was visible
i niiju   t 'wa tlirwn open and'the gigan- in the vicinity of Jerusalem nor a trace that
tie' ftiu of a Wariior in the' Syrin aray one was',there.
reeled in. . "Where is Tphegii e, where is      N A PT     R    X I.
Mram    i   'Sainaritan?  Jonathan 'cried
apparently ,toscorn at the roesrdf the storm, "sONs , oar'TH H s.  VANT~S.OF' sOL051MO1''
ap   e       th       e  mast kno     i  n a wide subterranean hall diia. illu..
r minated with' oil lainpp many beardedmine
Who    an depict the  consternation of with erio   onntengaces sat togsthg in"a
.enelaus; an behoJ ng :the grim visage Qf secret and solemn conclave. Clad in black
Jnathan in thegeart of abesieged eiy, with white aprons and white girdles.about
-end ,n tlW houge of the .lighest dignjtary theirloins, they- appeared-strange and pecu-
thereof!t  papage. of replypag Menelaus liar to the uninitiated., At the eastern end
shivered with disamay and involuntarilygried of the apartment ,presenting-muchy more an
for help.                           ,'irregular save-than a, hall wrought by the
' In vain,, by the God of Israel in yajng' hands of man; there sat anold and -hoary
-Jonathan cried. " I am lord and niaster ,f man upon a rude stone. .Itwas'the old and
-this pace. Tell me instantly where is Iph- solemn prophet we have seen in the -congre-
egine, where is'Amran, or in a few ;minutes gation of Minpah.: On the opposite side of
this; palace-burns,.and buries;ijs:inmates." thehall, there sat an ancient man with a
Here am I,'saidAmram, "  ..ut nonein large, compass in. his right hand and-agauge
this ;city except Aspasia'knows where Tph- in-his left.. Three supporters on. each;side
egin!is.                               of the two men, -armed with halberdscom.-
i'Thou, Amram? But this-is o time-for pleted the number seven on each side of the
explanations," said Jonathan.  'A  ay.- hal. ,In the center of the apartment there
-:eneIaus, one sound and you are -a dead stood a rude stone of an oblong shape, on
man. Beware."               'which the golden eandlestickof the temple
"It'is as' terrible a'night asc Ihave{lived rested; and around it there 4wre placed the
to- Witness;" Aspasia lamented.  Is 'it true implements of architecture. Behind this
that'theenemy approaches'               group  onewlhat to the- south there, stood
' ' Td'o true, itis too certain," her hoary the golden pitchers carefully covered aiid
seat cried. "-Listen,a Tekialhz Teruah, sealed, 'vhich contained the:holy oilLto" feed
nga ;iy again, they approach the city.' --"the candlestick. There was a sedar canopy
DowIvn-down,'kill the-jailor,",she cried, above this -group' restingon, three'poles-of
that nouetestity against me, if'the e emy Almug wood, upon which the Arielof Ju-
enter'the city. Destroythe idols and burn dah rested' holding between his teeth the
thnem,-burnmy priestly robes; drive out the palm of peace and the olive branchof- hope.
-piestessesgb, lazy man,- be quick. -Pear- . The bearded: men' with the serious co.n-
s'tttj the strni'roar,- 0e16 oi'nets warble,. tenances sat on rude stones. None spoke,
b twerriors shoot  Go. Go. - ''- -f  none smiled, all appeared to expect some-
i'he:'ldianwent toward the'}door when thing soleran and grand. '-One of the   arose
ri was f'ored -open by one Violent blow, and and ,approached the central gromp;, he held
inae the giant figure-of Jonathmnn "follow- a-brass rod'inthis rightahaid with which he
fid;by'  ram'. Wherem ie !' phegine ?- strack/seven tirns thegoled=andlestiek,
-Trnth2.death Jonathan roamed,'swinging and a cleat silvery sondadhehoedeventimnes
h i heavy sord ove'Asipasits-heard.i ,  though thetsbteritanean hall, The - jri
~'JMercy,' mbrcy, she is in-Jaser-of- Aini- rose-anad' s-iood-there hi' sildnce,' heethe
di',Aspasia cried         -   --       man in the est-f- the hall'said-, W een
- ~'ile utte, I take thee alonanidaease are the pillarsEf' wisdoni"bceause-he'are
-tht n 1tfa4ig pheghief' 90hathanC said; the agmbodI-fstrength on whiehi-he-dr&amp;a
Mild4hiw zgtnnfgagedded46;nd.. of' beauty rests. -Seven- ari-te'hetrs
hgaidi idhewuet 'el6erntias   le ttbeve our heads -snd-he'colos 4f'tledin-
-hF~if*ithd ate ne'aewhile-Amramd bow. Thqe, ovenant between GQ4d da

THE     JfA
rests  on  the  divine  seven.  Seven are  the ,
planets and the inlets of man's head.'
And threes sacred to the Lord of Hosts,"
said tie ancient man in the west of_ the hail.
"Why    three  mny. brother?" was the
question from, the opposite side.
" Three were our ancestors, Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob as three vere the sons of;
Noah. == In twice three days Gdd created the'
.earth ahd the hosts tbereof. Three are the
elements'on earth, air, water' and fire, and
three are the scienCes, mathematics, philos-
ophy and history.'- Threefold areiman's
niental cayacitie , conception, judgment
and volition,. as threefold are the extensions
of the bodies. Three-angels"iitedfather
Abraham,,three"kings reigned in Jsra l ere.
the, temple of the Lord could be built by
three architects, the temple which is divided,
in three apartments."
"And five is holy to the Lord of Ijosts,"
said the.man with the brass, rod in the cen-
ter of the hall.
Why five, my brother?" the man in the
east asked.
S"'Five: areathe books of the divine law
which:-teaches usthe path of life," said the,
man in. the center.'L' Five are the senses
-of man with-which to perceive the works of
our God. Five arethe commandMents' on
each ofsthe two -tables of Moses. -For the
sake of five righteous men ,presenting the
five fingers on the right 'hand of,-Providence
-Godwould have spared the wicked people{
of 'Sodom and Gbmorrah."
"And ten is -holy to the Lord, said the,
man in "he west.
SWhy ten,-my brother?" the ,man 'in the
east askpd.
4 Tennis seven and three," said the nan'
in the west.-. "Ten times the Lord com-
m nded and heaven and earth with all their
hosts sprung into existence. Ten command
ments? are the basis of fthe moral world-
Ten generations passed,' from Adam to Noah
and ten more from Noah to Abraham who
wras the father' of the ten car'dindl virtues'
Piety, induft4y temippranbe, 1eiievolence,
ineekness; ifaithifuluess, courage, justier
eqnity, ar~d l10  of r ."lV
'~~oy arethi-eeffivdnat ten1" said the
m in   N tbas,    ~t~nnhe numbers
bol~s i'~ve  $v  a isth. rub wit

PCA   EES.
his six wings who administers bhforethe
Lord of Hosts. Thepeventi daysnithe
seventh years are-the Sabbaths of the14r4.
'Seven timed every day I praise thee' for'thy
righteous .judgments,' Seven.is the un-
her of the covenant; therefore-if the'rglt-
cous shall fall seven times he shall vise'
again.' ,Three,five and seven and tAeir
multiples are the holy arches; but seven
and its, multiples is the. nst 'holy arch in
strength,' perfection  and beauty. 'liree'
are the stones of the pillars;. but tl~e seventh
is, the key stone. The candlestick with its
seven lamps is the s'ymbol of God's creation
consisting of seven and its multiiles. Over
our head is first the arch of three, then
comes the earth the arch of five, and above
it is the heaven, the arch of"seven, the throne'
of, the Most High."
"Blessed for ever and ever be his glori-
ous name," the assembly pronounced, tow-
ing their heads in reverence.
"You stand here at the' rude stones left
of the Temple bf Solomon and the Temple
of Zerubabel," said the man in th9 east,
"it is your duty, ye Sons of the Servantsf
Solomon like your fathers to build thes een
arched temple of perfection, beauty and
strength of these rude stones. Are you
willing to work?"
" With God, truth,, light and justice ,we
are willing-to lay hand on, the work," the
assemblyresponded.
"So it shall he," said the man in the past.
"The ten cardinal virtues 'ofAbrahamn be
'your guidesand the holy seven-which in-
isters at the throne of glory beypur objeot.
Let all the world',unite to build the, areh of
seven, that God may, thr9nekupon our hndi-
work and the nations asmnbe undeit "in
the ten cardinal virtuesof father 4br l ia."
Again the man in the=1center 6f the hall
struck seven times the goisn candlestick,
and as the silvery sound 'eched throughthe'
ball all were seated], andthe iezt mi at
lence reigned supreme in the grave aseml
The ~mn n.the a~st whose amie w   o4e
ben Johrief JernsaleindliftedupA t   og hrp
Jan afted iaan repgated it nd dpar-
aed thog      ie dor     ftr0w0I4e
e t


T      IE FIR'TS  OF
-blMatuck the stranger three- times on his 'the mountains of Judah. So Ptolena on
£eod edupon  i'which the stranger lifted up his part 'promised. Whereas Judah Mac-
ige if- hisleft hand" The ma,- cabee'nd- the other patriots have smitten
W    16th'e iron rod struek'the golden candle- Nicpnor 'and Gorgias, even as David'smote
stick ten times; upon which' thestri-ger Goliath, our' hearts rejoice in the Lord and
11fid    ,the 4,v, fingers of his rightf-hand our souls shout with gladnest in' thy Al-.
ad to'f- his left'  making the sign off sev- mighty.   -
e- Then -Jose rose, and asked, " Who art.  "We, therefore, hope and believe, even
thou, stranger?"                         as king -Solomon; and Zerubabel in their
tjmes did, that the day is nigh for the 1reno-
a n of the Bonis of the- Servants of
961 on;'..'said the' stranger, "God  m  nation and re-dedication ofthee Templa of
. the Most.High. But where are the vessels
'ord   obmon  e my king and the temple isg
my h   e         'of gold the vessels.of silver and the vessels
"ny hen.   oe       n   Jof brass.? where -is the golden roof, the
hnIcme frome's ahou "l Jose ake. door. posts and thresholds of polishedmetal?
come from a place covered with Warhere are the pillars of marble,:the pillars
arch of "three;" said the stranger.
i.       ah;ietowlk"wa           h  of Almug ,wood and the pillars ,of -precious
iat path i d    thou walk "  as the metals? -They are in the hands of the ene.-
neI q  upestion.e                     my. Ptolemy received of -;king Antioch
-  alkedupo anse   arc f f,  ws t  three presents, the two .Rillars of -brass, and
Whither. -dost th go?"the olive tree of gold.             deposited them
i        d   thoug?      se continued with;us and we -are ready to return them to
asking,,,                               the Temple of- the Lore.   =
"1  walk toward the arch, of, seven,", was' th Tepleo  h  od
"a  wr     h                 wa    "Thebrethren of'Damascus. think this is
the answer.                            . the proper'time to furnish the vessels of the
d  te       a  ae temple, and, ,the    pillars, , the doorposts,
a                                      ' the 'thresholds',and' doors, as -the Temple
w as  ei vi   s of a    r   b    n "might soon- be renovated and: re-dedicated,
was, replied.                           ,but;divine service /might be' delayed by the
"And what art thou to do in the arch of batdivesevice Tihe eforelae y te
-want of vessels.:, Therefore ;they sent mes-
seven? "was the next question.          sengers to the brothers of'Babylonr-of-Su-
"To becomeaCherub of light and minis- sah, of-Persepolis. and Eebatana, inviting
ter before the God of truth and-light,',ws them to come hither, that you- may decide
the response                      -     which of 'the sacred vessels each fraternity
- the'name of -God was pronounced by should furnish, that they be finishedwhen
the-'stranger "the whole- assembly rose.- the Lord returns to his liouse."  -
Jose paId, "Heais our brother,'duly-initiated  The other messengers were called each
in   e  insteries."Give hi . ismucideh light separately, went through the same Cere no-
as   podess;'' Itantly 'the bandage was dies, and then each stated the wishes of his
tair frbnt'his -eyesand the assembly Wel- constituents. After a short debate;Jose read
Soidiedhirti bpilifting up'sevenr fngers each.' the names of all the sacred vessels from a
ie  badvi'g i~swered the salutatjon by rais- scroll. . They concluded upon the -number
in isten fingers addressed them thus:  and weight of the vessels 'and pillars -tabe
, rthire    of Danascus send me provided by each city,- furnished each with
'greet i~g tJose ben John of-Jbrusalemdind a drawing of the. vessels to be made, their
1 tiie i    kher Sou s&amp;fJ the Servants of Solonion. for sand-symbol.
4s  s a tn bildeanddesigner,      Here the council yas interrupted seven
ae'i~3ee           ddah.    f the bzs on axaetalliedi'un- from Without  All
'e~i~~ing    f th Tnbple of 'Solomnon 'ose and in a minute every ody was anwd
~W~i     6       f     ~i tl0e hea ofgn t he et and' ready fore selfdee .
4e~fsan henal1 was given from o~s4
___  ~~9goidefilanm                        w     e$rNid4n  160

fore,-were repeated, then the
removed.
"Is danger ahead?" \Jose
"None, none, may' brother
than. " The men are my men
ties ,are mycaptiyes. Their'
daged,-and them iinde are. ba
them topass through, the
kings." _
-Jose lifted up seven finger
imitated by everybody-in the
a number of them, went out
same door -here  onathan e
few moments they returned e
blindfolded man, and one lead
Aspasia through-the breathless
Another door opened'throug
strangers were 'guided' 'Wh(
gone Jose addressed Jonathan
"' Son of the Servants of S
thou precautious enougho at
tion to our temporyy temple 2
"I was, I was; I waS,"' Jon
"Whither doest.thou bend
Jose asked
"To freedom and Justice, t
pillars oft he Temply" said Jo
" W here wilt-thou -find  the i
tinued.
"In the center of the temipl
athan's reply.
"Whyin -the center," was ti
tion.
" Because the centraldomere
was the reply.
" And which is the central d(
temple?" ie wa-aske&amp;
"Peace," said Jonathau.
"Peace r ,oh-.high and peac
peace i -life and peace in seati
solemnly ifting-up even finger
imitated by the wole assembly
"Grass grow in--he lgnes of'
said Jo e. -  "Most all of the ci
the mountains. Priests;'soldie
eonstiputethe population of the
consternationd ,terrorule
Every b~-s aaid of his ows
Let th Dariotanoe and they
ity  ith;li~tlesa~ifle.  on
auts of  lpn~r~'~saidIze
'we      haearoud w es

THEz    MAC    AnjES.
-bandage was patriote of Israelthetime of Zio'seg -
tion has come. -Let theni-come n et sag
asked.        God's heritage from the abominationsof ;t
,", said Jona- ,eathens."
i, and the cap, ' "My brother,;like thee thepatriotsd
eyes are ban- rael desire, to ascend Mount Zion anditie
ified. Permit the wicked from Mount Moriah," sai}eon-
graves of the than   bit-"the 'nations threaten with * -
geance; Amaon, MoabandiEdoVni a.° in
ra which was g    s against us, Bacohides and  imothys
room. Then stand with a large:army beyondJo rdean -
through the The patriots could easily 'take°sn  ,
ntered. In a  but they cannot spare the.gai riso o fbold
ach leading- a;it; and toloose it again after- we havetaken
ing trem ling it6"would be a heavy blow,-a discouraging
lines of men., disaster'to the ;patriots. Hold rnxtf ye:pious
h which the Sons of' the Servants:of Solomon,,gte,4be
en they-were sacred lamp and the pure oliveol to; eed.it
thus:        on te dayof 'victory; guard-the sac a oil
olo mou, waet of annointment and the secrektartsof epep
ract no atten- paringthe incense that the- smoke  ise
?    L       straight like a colunnntothe doine of: heavy
than replied. ei., lut let us not be 'too hasty in the work
thy steps?" of the Lord."'
The metallic -drum without was wiolen tl
he two main beaten seventinmese  All' in the; hall ' oe0,
)nathan.    -every, hand grasped the sord, the lights
?" Jose co   were extinguished and :tha doopiddly b
Cewas Jon-    "Is danger ahead?" Joseasked.,
"The- entry: to ,:our hall is discoveed," -
he' next ques- said"the man'outside; " theh'bellwas rbing
from above, 'the doors were opened,'  -
sts on them,"  " Which doors?" asked Jose.   r--
The'doors .off the low 'house," he re-
ldme of God's pled.
"Removethe' central stairg'-"plaoe-the
artificial  ell, under'the rnarrowpanag,
e on  eadtli Josecomranded.. -Instantly ten rA{iem  h
h " said ose ed but ofthe hall exto eet eis
s, which was When 'they returned the-d'liberos    r
conttinied ealbify as before dno dang-
er -wag=apprehended: When done th   as-
Jeusile     sembly rose and iwhilesome; fllo'eJi n
tinsied to-than 'others wentthrough' the ns 'iin
is and 'spied back to the city.      '       -
:holyg ity.-  Jonathan having re ed ithe to'i ofthe
'apremea- kingttprnediit stepsto-the~ est~t tegnb
n shadow~ corps. Aspasia wea gent to W     hpab~Mdhr
can take the comzaegde($ 4oth&amp; be   ss '9pfRgbe~
of te Set ~  eg  uami waite- for!oasth~WaM
eteins~n4 the very hear$ the'ny


THE' MACCAJBIEES.I!

thoni and-promised to afford them other op-
potonitiea to render good services. "I
-want a chance to slay 'Bacchides," said one
of the warriors. "Then I must have the
head- of -Timotheus, 'another remarked.-
A   joria8 'is my man," said the third,' "and,
Nicaor mine," -said another. "Did you
e thei run and leap,' one remarked,
"wh n thiy heardiour corneta warble! "-
"Theynjumped as. though:-an- earthquake
wihs.under their feet," said another, "and
itreined fire from heaven."
Theyd%'ound out how heavy our blows
are," said a stout dark featured man.
"AiarkI! Jonathan suddenly stopping
called on his- meti. "'Somebody comes."-
All stopped. Two men came along the road
*alk ingveryfast.
Who are. you and whither do you go?"
Jotathan asked.
e men- on seeing the -Syrian uniform
answered, " We' go to Jerusalem to=make a
sacrifice, to' Adonis when ,the sun- rises."
"0.-ye wicked fools," one of the patio ots
exclaimed in the dialect of the country,
"why'do you make sacrifice to an idol?"
It is 'the godof' thy king,"'said the man.
' 'M~ king is, God himself," said the pat-
riot, "the self-same God whom-thou, fool and
scoundrel, blasphemest.",
'-' Be 'careful, ye: men," said Jonathan,
"that-your misguided piety or abominable
hypocricy costs not your, lives. Turn in-
stantly and match on before-us,"
"Are you the king's soldiers, and "---one
said.
"No. words,". Jonathan interrupted.-
"Epstward, tothe front, march!" 
whoe-men wereoonsiderably frightened-
One of them exclaimued- three times, in' He-
Why three times?" Jonathan asked.
"Because three were our ancestors, Abra-
bar   saao and Jacob, as three were the
sons of. Nah," was the reply.,
Jonathan whispered into the ear of. the
man,."I knowthee:"*
"Son -ofthe Servants of Solomon," the
a arcompleted the senterice.
'Celisthenhos -whoburnt the doorposts of
-the teinpl6,"' said- the 'an, "with' a-small
host at*y#llnighth idiurvillage to proceed
espttito~h known- inMaspah.?"'a

" Enough that I know it,"said Jonathan.
"How many are with him?"       1 =
" About three hundred," said the man,
"How many are of us?" Johathatx asked
his men.
" About fifty' One answered, "the rest
are ahead on the other road."
"Plenty,"said Jonathan.  "Be silent and
ready to fight. Lead on, man, that we find
the birdbin hit nest."
"You see that fire," said the man, "it is
the watch-fire of the Syrians. Here at our
left: the little river winds its course into the

village through perpendicular rocks.'
' That is our way," said Jonathan.  Lead
on,."
The men   crossed fields and- orchards,
reached the' rivulet, followed its'course'to the
narrow passage, then they went into the
water and led the patriots' in the water to
their belts into the heart of thevillage with-
out being noticed by-the',outposts,, It was
nearly day-break. Every soul in the village
appeared ,:to' sleep .soundly:.-'Jonsathan in-'
structed his men, and in a few minutes the
Syrians .were' attacked from all 'sides. Half
naked they leaped from  their couches to
ieet with certain death inthe confusion and
the bight of consternation.
It was a terrible affray. When the morn-
ing dawned the dead and the dying laid in
their blood and-the terrible combat still rag-
ed with unabated fury. Meanwhile several
of ,the peasants had caught Calisthenes, dis-
armed and bound him. They dragged him
to the heathen temple which was erected by
command of the king, filled the building
with combustible, of all kinds, threW Calhs-
thenes in, and sat the building on fire, not-
withstandingthe loud protests of soie of
the peasants.  "'Let' him roast the Satanic
man, who burnt:the doorposts of God's tem-
ple, and desecrated the'most holy place by
the blood of a swine sacrificedto Cerbs ' the
furious ?multitude roared
Meanwhile the Syrians 'yielded and were
made captives. Now   Jonathan heard the
savage cries from the othtirside of'ahevil:
lage. 'He hastened thereand'eard the ter-
rible -story of the end of Calistlienes -
" Woe unto your assassins °he'oared ti-.
mendnuely            eawo  mry;trieweve,whw
mite a vanquisle4 'foeM    i  d si '

i i! 4 FIRST O P

1

-149

fall 'upon your guilty heads, ye barbarous
cowards. My God, thou knowest' my inno-
cence,"' he prayed,"thou knowest the dar-
age passions of; nen-who' axe!once roused t
the destrUction of their fellow men. Who
can 'mpater these barbarousehordes? Lord
let this bloodiot fallion Israel."
"Shall he not burn who burnt the door-
posts of-God's temple?" one asked grimly.
"Fool, thou, doorposts are no'human. be-
ings," said Jonathan. Without eating bread
or drinking'wineswith the people cf that vil-
lage, notwithstanding, the ,murmurs- of his
men he left .the 'place instantly., and throat
ened to punish the..assassins, as soon as pos-
sible
Q p   R   -XX.
TUE M I5Ts  KE.
The warr-ors who brought As paia, foaming
with rageo Mizah, according 'to Jona-
than'asorders,.reported to Rebecca that the
woman captured-' in 'Jerusalem . was sept
hither by 'Jonathan; to, his. sister Re ecca,
with the particular request to wateh her
vigilantly and. not allow her to escape under
any irurnstanges; Regecca couldnly be-
iece the wo uan cptoredby .onath  un
der such 4dangerqus Mc rcumsatanicPs must be
Iphiegine. For whom else could he thin
boldly risk his life and his men? she thoilght
ie djd, not tell her name, to the warriors,
she reaponed,'because he does' not wish tdo
expose her to the gaze and  o1esting cour-
tesy of. the wrriors. Instantly Rebecca
dressed 'in her bestsappyrel, and went to.ee
phggine.  "1'  shall certainly , nd'beyond  a
doubt, ascertain," 'she thought, whetherar
she is worthy of the love Of Jonathan.
When.the morning dawned over Mizpah
and Aspasialooked.ibrough the .windog of
her room, she discovered;that she.was-be-
yond the reach of her friends. . She .saw
the colors and'unifoi'nt of the 'atriots,'heard
their cornets'eusinon th'emiiltitud6 to'morg-
ind service and prayer, and th' chorusses'of
th  efites' resound froni different quarters
of[the1city. All thlse circumstancescon-
vinedherthat shie' ifsiW harids of lIer
erinsb far beyodthe'i-each of -her frignds
rtsauae d the ~ilo nteefd
gaghst herbefor (th forumr of bse,'eb
was:inevt   %bl beiof: Thee  *ciii4 'b#

183

of her passions'awake
ei fire inthevery de s
stared long while into.
Rdbecc41 'dte Whole
aose dietoriu    .r y
all the char'h1 ia 1
. -V

terrible asshe had ever witnesse, toiW''
canie fearbodily painandthe t s;ti;  g
idea of  approaching;eath, antdheb
ion which followed' the furanus  g-4ed
Aspasia almost tsenseless-upQp the Jconob
with which heraroishwasgpro  edsd  MOas
not, the feeling;of resignittion= they l,,ed
Aspasa's furious nature;'ntwas exhaustin,
it was a physical and oral weakne s; Auph
as she never felt before, whighu gtterfr pros-
trated her, so thatneither heluii ofher
feelings werekaniy longest er'  eg'ctol
of her will.- Like the serpeut  ish'lys
cold and deadlikeinwthe aneu4 otrietdnto
insignificantringlets;hAppia-ssaaidcrusked
with cold'des;paii on the couh: The oor
opened, and the niajestie faonao Rfebeca,
in the faintlight:of warning dawsi;noTed
o r  as the bewildered.: inagina bo  ,f spa-
aia perceived it, floated intothe room. h-
posing the stranger'sto sleep sIe sdown
silently opposite AsPsia, Thuas bhaaa  ill
sufioient light-fell in the room tlatsh cou ld
see Aspasia did notesleep. TM:The p  A cn-
tenance;.the blue. and quivering lips as dthe
eyes glowing. fever-like at one, engaged the
sympathy of Rebecca. She" claspedr the
.hand:, of, Aspasia and in a tone, =of sisterly
benignity she a4l6e&amp; her,,-  o  appear ex-
hausited, good sister, whatoan-Ido foreyou'?"
'The :striking sijilaidty of ;ebeec a  d
Jonathan the' kindness andradtalloyed°'ey'n
pathy of'her voice, and -probably abo e'l1,
hedr ajestic-°for nowbent iver Aspaeia's
.couutenaie;impressed the unfortunateIwo,
man go eiolnently thatr she ,koe fro i
her wila iveries:and recovered, ots certain
degree,;her sel-control  . 'Who  t thou,
angelic woman?" she         a4piy
a an Rebecc, 'e  sipter of ratan,"
shy reps ed ,  i dly-ar g.
"er'Pove to ;J ath  r was so .coh uera-
ble tiat, not ithstanding the ,ccnrrepces of


T{Hs    FlRtSrT   OF

THE MA'CCAI3 ES.

So4ftAspasia now begin td find prope'r-e
:$4eAr:theonduct  f Jonathau and 'be
'g tobiae e oviolently'abducted he
froii Jasalem  and brought ler this si
ter to secure Ier- affectionseto: himselff;
was a monmen t of unspealabla ;appinessfo
wretched sn)asia, when her sagacity desert
edli    4 ignited imagnatidled her int
he Foa   ple  of happy love. She fel
char  denaptured with blis;a red h'u
ies et heripale chopaksand animation glit
tero  ipn l through her large, blck eyes
ag i {reips- Assnined heir, rosy tint.;
A'pasae w s silent, and'hatgwo!raan c1
spea    nben under they;inauence -of suci
feeng   Rebecca,unable' to understand
the _  i,e of her silence ,supposed  she wa
)not 1e' enough htespeak, "'Thou art ex
hated, "goo4;'Iphiginef' Rebecca said
"lit mebringithee acpoof'milk."a .
Stayl''.Apasia 'cried, in a tone:.of th
wildest'despair, grasping convulsivelythe
cloak ol' Rebecca. 'It wasran exclamation
that t iihtened Rebecca; for Aspasia, on
hearing!hbrselfcilled Iphegite, began tb
understand the mistake, Jornathan had ask
ed her ,whereIphegine was. She beganto
uxndeigitad'thatn she wras a mere prisone~
here. Thekitidness" &amp;f Rebecca'.wasv the
eonsequerde} ofa   is take  All.her hopes
and joyssuddenly' vani iedrid dire -truth
torpentedhprgaehing heart. The coni usive
distractio  ,'thefea ures and ,the horrid
4Eclamation readeRebecca believe hergest
was veryaisek. "Iwillycall-tle physiciaiif
thou wisheet,",Rebeccs eaid;  "I will' do
anything fbr th~e thou nightst desire."'
" Nothing, 'nothing;' Aspasia said.  'I t
will be overina 'iihut. e ti e b'e 'given
a cupif rlilk. 'I  11 be F  n aininute."
Rebeccaleft the'roon ' Aspasia w  's again
hersa i  ' I shall miakehl best use ofthij
mist   i   he_.soiioquiz~d. aebeocw re-
turndit h a;Up of milk;'.Aspasadrnk

r- nameIto thee. He has only one sister, and
e- he loves her well"
r 4 -recoect that he often spoke of thee,
s thy beauty) thykind and affectionate-heart,"
If said Aspasis; ." butIi have passed lately
Yr through so many hardships and tribulations
t that I have forgotten everything, every per-
o, son, "
lt  " Except Jonathan, I hope," Rebecca con-
e tirued-' "He suffered so many hoursef bit-
- ternes4 that thou must not forget him."
S-Aspasia artfully blushed and' cast" her
looks on 'the door while playing with the
 tassels af her gown to hide her emarrass'
h ment AUnsuspecting and natural:as'Rebee-
ca was, she thought she understood'the sen-
s timents of, her guest. " Thou needst not
* hide thy affections before Jonathan's only
, sister," said'she, in a tone of kindness and
prhe, ner " reedest Itiou be'ashamed of
e trn before Gd and I ael. Seak, sister
e Thegine, didst thouforget, betrey' the'love
6f agnanimhs Jonathan?"
"sBelieve that the earth had burst asun-
dei' and its jarts fe' into the darS'SheAl,"
sail 'Aspysia, yehe ently; '"that the- sun,
eonstined  the benign  taesors n aiurt of
*jalosy, and the blue vatltftdf heaven faded
ide withered like autuiinie-leaves; rather
believe all this and 'much more of theTim-
possiblitie(Na thin agine for a moent I
hii  eassd to ,ov Jokathan. As long' as
my pulses suspend not'and'my heart stops
not its1palpitation, I shall lave Jonathan.-
Bud't he abandoned re, he trimled-my
wounded  heart under'his feet, cast me away
like a useless garment." W e it P-uth Qr
hypocricy that her voice faild, and two
tears trembled between her eyelids? 't
least Rebecca did not doubt her sincerity.-.
She clasped Aspasia's hand and' pressing it
to her lips she said
"Becalm and consoled, sister Iphegine;
believeI ot what thy aprehensions inen.
Jonatha  loves thee and ill;do so forever.
Qrhelievest thou ie twice risked lgip life to
resee thee, if.he loved the not?0rdolt
thou tink I know nodthe secret emotion
of his heart? None eetrite deeper it
th  som of ma tha asisfr's a feote
~9ks   I knowr hik and hisees   Jp

184

F

ered with clouds she is his tree of lif now
guarded by the Cherub with}thedgaming
sword. Believe tee, sister tphiegine, 'an.er-
ror,'a mistake, asla'nder often have a perni
cious effect;' but innocence andetruth always
triumph at last."r
Aspasia's eSagacity 'failed note to-discover
that aanisunderstanding, existed: between
Jonathan ~andIphegine.: 'Every word" Re-
becca had spoken of Jonathan's consistent
love to Iphegine fell like live eoale'intoIher
heart.' Still her-admirable presence oftmind
and ,quick perception ,aided heroin making
the bestruse of prevailing  cuziosatance.w
Tb   misunderstanding between Jonathan
and Iphegine might'he nourished and n-'
creased to ,ins'urmouutable, ebatacles, her
scheming mind suggested,'and therefore she
paid:  ' '..'
."Satan' feeds 'upon 'the dissensionr and,
misunderstanding of lovrs. 'Thepiitive
serpent assumes thehuman shape ad]hisses
the-venom of" slander' into the heart of: te
unhappy ones," said Aspasia hurthe tune 'of
offended innocence, "Iknow that Jonathan
has lined his. ear to the darted "tongueioof
the malevolent slanderer; but is this 'love'
whichJ believes the reports of 'the'"Wicked
and sees not the tears-of offended ihnocence?
Genuine love believes iniitelf owly." '
"Jealousy is the natural offspring of fiery
affections," said "Rebecca.'  " Jongtlias
love to you Is too great an4 fervent'that sus-
picion should not turn it intoglowing jeal
oust. Besides this" he is 'a .priest of' the
Lord, and he Law "bids thate gep from
the Woman whose whitegarb of innOence
is 'stained by sii report 'Thou miinder-
standest him'and his love. Convince him
that thine enemies rangedd thee if thou'
indeed lovest him, 'then for, thesake of his
happine s cOnvince hin 'of thy love, thy,
fidelity thinei ocence, and believe me,
thou wilt heal the burning wuids of the
greatest mnanly hearing Israel. Hi loes
not like ordinary mortals do;l he loves with
everx~ fiber of 'his heart, ever drop''ofhisi
gore1 eerg thought of'his hotd, Greatnd
jnir abl as 4  oei       eluy     n
inflezble'aO'bisachar water is hsrespet for
ofthia oralheart.

-A pasieaembraced andiied   eb o4
affectionately'that the'innocent d
pecting daughter aatathia already' g n
to' elieve ;1 her 'virgi npuirity'"1vl
obey thee, kind sister," Aspaeiae 'cea i&amp;d,
"whatever thou gayest, 'shall3Ib% 'iry"law.
oil'ene,I =i'itheewho brotlruyh epots
of. me to the 'e araf Jonthn  and f"*ht
sindid tliehlanderer e=tongue peda ed  -
Tell'i 'seveythieg ihst' may"l ow' th d
m a'nitudh of n  isfortune' ud stnggle
ag~tinsit      '.'+k f " I;  1 '  !' .  r   tl tr;_
"Rebequ    arrated faithful the story eon-
cerning Iphegine whieh' Alges Chom'imlI
heated to'J nathari'thatf' ntftm igltio
the latter resegeda1:se.abenioe er fromthe
acaflkd  's heaprogressed '*itthbecan-
dalous Story=Aspasiadappodheea44al-
ways lover apparently to hjde Whlrse,
and when thestory was fninshed:he cevee4
her eyes-with her 'rht il:a  xelair e,
in a-tone of overwhelmingprief, "J g  -
ful viper whose name ie man,thowartbo¢ a
only to crush the wpak hearts' of conding
omen    Firs they. poisou our sop's ith
their sweat venoi r and irun" is to'"grtiy
'their brutl'iusts;' arid 'then, then their lo
turns into violen1b hated,'theirfost sacred
promisesboine: poiPon'edarrows topl6o
our hearts, and theiraifted passions 't
int demonsr f h red'',nd black denies.
'Ebecfcanethou;,n owest not ho *'deNi rL I
loved that'lib1lishAlfoyntos, lhow I ro  d
him 'on'tins gay'"breast, 'h'w I cone d"4nl
him with eeryfiof   , m  er t d til1 le
vooidvantae'over my ealn'es,' n  hid i
a li4 a rostiat4ddcin r        ad Mat hi : .tj --
plored  hin ihe naneof  ode %t%  ie,
and bury my disg"ae e in ,h'e etesl pif
blivion, he;shameo he ian't re'. sber
my reckless seducer, wen fart 'tand boastedi
of having enjoyed, while ' fJ~n thait'.sig od;
and eposed his digra  4"victieiirto thepi
of him '  6love 'est on eirth., 'Is tal rein
thunderbolt left to everlastin  the o
crush the reviler?" Almost ,aging sim e  If
back upon the coUci.f.,   .'
Rebecacdould n t°iagine f'i     t0
that allthis ws 'k rove thip the
taedte f'1liin  cuuedan "6

,1


Tna    F IUSi T  QF 2
+ 3 d:dint ified-dth  at essan aiden,  WehRbe hee4 As gone Aspad-okiked
tA 40eM d t.ot.i te  nindigile wiri gabhntly fter her   "A   now J h e -
8hs staeignd pitebus on       asia stand -h     d moJedretiswy. 1     y.
rho, (,pareptly lost iv-grief and reuwrselTkonw what'ails Jonatnn and, lphegigen
E    +   '.lmi1  "y                  and the 7ting is pressed l4eep ene*gliiteto
cin eea o          edy their hearts. If he can ~no-bemndew " "he
*0fu         r all et a t   shall never be her is-Newoman cankeep
1a bp ofthy;ife ; edlp troy  U  ';  s uch a ii'portanteeiet inher hosonrto-
, t      hop,? 4"spas is 4ed,=mrowa 40erof. friend hknowiphe-
"fonigo thguogenrg      e       k    gine'eAisgrace and l have ngvengd: myself
1  idnO :rmPgdo0, gofobe rif L ean not fully trim   h.-Se brings ue
ancea n the human breastfor a #o a  o  loth s, the. stupid thing,. to facilitate :yn
iate       o'osyildtothbe escape. _Wells. hall maketirebestautse-of
gtnel erm'' ot lve:. Manwill pardon,'thi golden 'opportrnity: But wherg 'I ain
thl iaa, he thiefthe $obbe  ay;.  4he gn; she and evey=bodyel ejinthis place
a$sa1iiiewilllook fki 4ly.even 4 the:must believethlet 1,;am  phegins .and not
t.titpInd  W4    h ashtered a, thus :pasi';tthe I ph'eg'j isedethroned-forever
a'd ndmdoe At bigOs ifhe,.ily rents I  in the hearteofdionathan.rShe is feiad and
coiduet and a ends orif heonly does Jet. Aloymos will- prevent her resurrection."
e    w; but therewa no-necy .no forbear  Reb eega red with a nationaleostume
e   opadon for woinap. Comedy &amp;      Aof.the daughters ofIsrael and-helped Aspa-
ab4eca, also tbo condemne t; e and wilt'e dress. Whenaongse to d Ver; ''Noje
Oaa ibn iJdoxthan,-against the di graced wo o ustkne  ytig ofvueon "satin,-
"Ou.mus gnotr e Iphegie ftche 'e'r name
,;.  c   so theedaoter o  ie   s  o      btignAle in the estimation of   pp-
I      ,    "f"eoo,0slo pl.h '' 'i  'ai ht-orde mn  ttriots.  13e thowealled  )inateh s lgngas thou
'       t741 o imthtJ n,   ' r-what he knows too;  . 
e alr gdy -       i1 $le  t betoaconded n
orl$ the      thou artlost, to him Let  " Xes, yes, I insdertaS4 tl ee" Dinah mnst
i      ore  f   hibe               my  na  r ,_ sahi  Aspasa, it terly , 'toDi-
N1  imor&amp;4 asf b l6!   d ,hast ly, nah a lot ia alsponine.. WVheremis ibn-and
{{:  th  n a  ,t ; u  s e a k  oQ   in g r e  3  h 6v e a L n vm to  a , e n g e  th   r o g s  c m m ip te d  o n
Se t           con   ation  a this 'inah,?              naes
~TtmhAif hje is lot tin   isja tire-   inh sbl e ty     ne esai    e,
ro                 j *~.~d  ilrterd~t  a  ahrt thou n Qv e 'irlu""ttebt v '  i hit
bne            ieo Inn,  eonlmy 'we n-m us0m    nu eh  , o  n m s  1bpah et
n~s~idi~~6~ehi a pardon lote hm  ~       e, n   Dr~   sil be be     nd
m                    othr 'rris  omeno
o+ eaffnewlife, hndtigh                           n ppier  thy mother i t
nos. ya dY     is-pondiflr~t" mepan.                 dd..t .ade
r      n a 1        atker  p  h it s" apir  nI  ie  c n nw
mA      a  ira±uo' t o pardon; A : rad to her  yp ocray, i  s .u hed
neto   1 l not tqps a n gam     eya                      rp
toh.aoo~  4hou rt, th~o n rst e  is           oawsh  ltred,  Wo due thj i
sTu mn  ~   u   e   gne n   Vm   the
t hintde    I    ai no, bed ebier flo0C5 ar uWiO1  o  heti  an  di
im muro    ,    d9 rio speak R   ge~ a and ipored liuprdon  '
4  ^4  {    o   t yl .  . arb, f'    Ibexa :_ heisodl_ "$khyos ie. t ~iu
p:spsi tis erpentfo ierkeary     a e
.{ , it'%   .,  y  r, '" j=E~rrs~ r  a .Jy ,:  -  ,  r a  f    ' +     "

I

T.a    MCCABEES.

CIIAPTER X XXI.r
TH   CAPTIVEV MAIDEN.
"The waters slept. Night's ill -very yell hung low,
Os Jordan's bbsonb, and the eddies ur)'dn
thelr ghassir ringsjieneath~it, life; th still,
Unbtoken besting of the sleeper's pulse.'
The reeds bentdown.the strewi ; the willow leaves,
With a soft cheek upon the lulling tide,
Forgot:the liftin winds; and the longistems,
Wlbose towers the water, like a gentle nurse,
Bears on its bosom, 'tnietly'gave wad;
Ant, geand, in gracefr4 attitosl , to rest,
Ho0w- striking gly the course of 'nature' tells,
]BY  its'light eef;of'humansuffering,f
That it was fashioned for a betterwprld i"
WILLIS.
We invite the reader with us to cross the
Jordan 'with pits r:umerous historical recol
elections, stride'over the fertile lands of Gad
to the white limestone !rocks which run up
from= the;idesert, ascend the steep hills ;and
cross the crimson and red sands of the des-
ert, tillwe come:into the'fertile land of Arm-
mon; the great oasis in the Syrian desert,
studded with palm groves,-orchards of datei,
fig, pomegranates and olives,:the hills cove
ered' with vine, tie meadows with the rich'
verdure, and .blossoms; decked with herds'
and flocks; the towns and cities well built
ahid fortified, ornamented with vast 'ialaces,
temples 'and fortifications.  Suchwas the
land of Ammbn in olden times, although it-
is now a howling desert.
Ever since the day:of kingDayid many of
the Hebrews lived in Ammon, Moab and
''dom.. Now    these -nationalities, jealous
upon tle rise and progress of the Hebrews,
not only molested them   and threatened .to
invade their country in largipumbers; but
al4o persecuted the Hebrews of those couu-
tries and droye, them  to despair.  The He-'
brewsafled to thetowns,,fortified them, and,
defended themselves as once the inhabitants,
of Jabesh Gileaddid against Nahash with
his host, and sent messengers to Judah
Itcabee to acquaint'him;ith, their suffer-
ings. ad secure his. sympathies.'
Before we can narrate thle exploits of the_
patriots in, these isnds' we must-go with ourA
readers to Jazer, ;oe of thelarges; andBest,.
fortifiedcities of Ammon. Here Chaereas,
the brother of Timotheus, supported by
Apollophafes, commandedalargegarrison
which frequeptly :ell uponte   perea
and 4(gastd their hoqpsetip lane.
side~ $lgis garrispn foraig&amp;tge'rgiggag
of the armies or apoNah aJgoIgolhes
whioh frpmed   eheasteping triaingular line.

froni the west of Edom to the north of 4mf
mon, and, maintained the, poragpd e
with the Euphrates in the (rea'and' D nasi
cue at the rightflank,
We enter" Jazer through its gates covered
with massive iron plates.  ehind stong
walls and gigantic towers we corne to wide
avenues lined with mansions and .en
Egyptian marhle, columns and  alco9ie of
imposing dimensions, gardens on the tp
of the houses and rows of orange trees run-
ning through All'avenues, and surroundi4.
in the nunierous squares,,the miian w  s
that spouted forthth e r aqueustreasuget
vie in silvery luserwth the serene sky over
the heads of the Ammonites
We open the portal of one of those golr
gous palacesandfollow the-hostof aeryanks
with their-floating cloaks of bright and vari
egated colors studded with, silver a d , l
to the rear of the building oyer a ,isesale
floor, through a corridor doubly 'set with
marble pillars and GreciaA statuary orieach
side, up one flight ofin arbleistairs, Weleoni.
ed on one side by Venus, Cupid aridtiei
Graces, and on the other side;by Apollo and
the Muses wrought by athe, artist' creativee
hands, we ,step into a room o rather;apa-
loon where Qrecian taste and art and oriet
tai luxury appeared tohave o done;thenp;
selves. Most .we not nd !happy creatures,
in the midst of.this opulenceand ;luury?-,
No,,there. mourns asweetlittle bird in
golden eage and like Philpumenaeitits
melancholy notes; there, lurks a  helpless
squirrel tied to a rich table by:agol'994
chain whileitlopgs .fer the yerdure-oro wn
ed oaks. And there sits also Iphegin igthe
long white, satinrbe, ,girdlepfgreaigws
stones around her waist, an  r i  s and di4-
mends glitterfrom her black tresses.
sian pearls encircle end     arms,- ant
tsillihge      fte a glittered from
her bosom and decoratd hr neck.
4ust ipthegine be happy Jn the ai st
of that opa sue  and ,  4z1uxry;is thisao
'nQugh to brbaiind barmany mpr  ,p r  e?
But Iphegine dooa pal8and eselpu
tuelanchgly xprssiops rpmrecin eu'sp
and her instrough ~lpqekeg~s dopg  algggy
diro  She nrst have wptyrygggzci gepp
Whopis hen cetpanienf agg4tIt
splendid purple nniform of aSyrisn tdaptpipi


iSN                          TnA Pir$T oF
hip b  st'is decked with radiant stars and ger could prevent me from hurrying to your
06iig4oki oldnd diamonds, and his war- assistance, 'rescue you or die. I made my
like apparel is of the richest kind. It way through the very lines of the enemy
is a young man of eminent beauty, high in and reached Zeredah; but there a demoniae
r k, with  heart full of glowing passions, rabble-like mad dogs furiously ran after me-
aud rice, rrrch,'ashie appearance proves. and thirsted after my blood. I never for a
Must jotp9iegine reciprocate his love, his moment lost my presence of mind. Steadily,
firveit 'iections? No, she' can not; for and decidedly I pressed onward to the house
the 'youg captain is not Jonathan, it is Al- of Jose where I knew I must find you. I
cin s.                      'exposed you well knowing the influence of
S"A   soon As I heard of the misfortune Jose who would certainly protect you, in
with 1 whichyou net' at Achshaf," said Al- order to be relieved of every suspicion, and
c  deb,' '"  forthwith sent orders to 'your enable me to carry out my wishes. Had. I
ca ors to 'ring you hither and not to Jeru- been successful I would have conducted you
sa,1e dfi' t y petitions ay friend Apol- to a place of. safety in spite of all' the mad,
lophanes received  he did, and tender- rebels ,in the country. But Jose having
ed ybi' the sdat of honor 'at the right hand crossed My intentions I went away, sought
side df'his favorite Wife who protected you. our men, watched your steps as close as pos-
Thug, thanktod, I succeeded to protect you sible; still Jose evaded our vigilance and.
against the violent' wtath of cruel Aspasia, sent you away, I 'knew not whither. Ins
siwed your',life iind protected you against stantly Idispatched several' parties to'search
desgrac'e."                            after you.,. I was.informed.of your capture
4I thaik yot,, Alcymos," said Iphegine, a. few hours alter it was effected; and by my
frigidly.' "I will try to forget your behav- orders you were brought to this place. I
ibr a = eredah."                       carried out my design after all; you are saved
"'Ah, how  hbrtsighted the daughter of and protected both against.Aspasia and dis.
M iuelads then wai!" he replied. "Did grace."

youiljdeed, not look through my scheme
thautb Then let me unravel the mystery.-~
I  Bethli hem I 'heard you Were abducted
frorti J ertselemnby Tonathan. I 'knew ex-
0c;ly  hith  heWould send you; because I
kJe* Well his' jntention to hold'you there a
hEst9eto check tlie poter of your father,
s lie ndwhbblds Adpei whom he abducted
i the-,eaine adventurous Way, to check the,
poW Fof Philai'dles to whoi' she prop ised
'We~lltid shenow remember the positive
aseg tibfAsyasia that oiiathan's haelt
w  en; -rldid she remember tiefrigid
fJoniathan'when" after hating t'es-
ed&amp;tier he 'bandoned nd sent her to'Zer-
edah;-norhi dshe forgotten the cautioning
11/dt  cf hAoNrar.     h N e he larned with
l%1titslf'rprieelathe abducted Aspasia
as he 4IIt1:{'r;t'&amp;'d the"orafound~ igh whidh
ell+d:I&amp;erirheeAlcynio uttered the last
r8iletfayi M pie i{linatio"to believe
thggiL' gi'ie onln ftoensope the attention
of "'Aldiii6k  flietelrre;paued a io-
lrien  g&amp;i e$r timeorelect,'then hecon-
n iifiM  '1stnedreo eredah. 'No dan-

All these communications sounded so like-
ly that Ipheghie know not 'Why she should
doubt them. This evidently encouraged Al-
cymosand he continued communicating to
iphegine that Lysias promised him the sue-
es'sorship to her father in thehijghpiesthood
aid' he expected to enter upon his.high office
in a vei-y short time, as her old father desired
the quietude of private life, being tired of
the present rebelliois Which require the
strength of a youthful arm t6 overcome them.
Seeing that TIhegine #as quite pleased-with
this ,discovery, but iskneW iiot her"iotives
-he felt so much'encouaed that he'co-m
mencedto'speak'of his high regard for 1%n-
elaus and, his 'beautiful daughter, and not
meeting with any pr6testationhe chine out .
withlhi intentions, and 'in maost a ection-
ate way he npoke of 'his fervent love olyIph-
egine and his prayer arn hope' to emraee
her aship  wige "the opulent, expected,
hon8 id ar1 1 ifeiv4 wife" e't  hieiph et',
the lord of -Jidah'aid Jeiilen'nd&amp; the
favdrite-ofAntio hnaind Lysiti," iAlcs
ixosholishidehis address.
4"'he'ndvelty of this unexpected cofeasofi

THR eM AC;CAB.EES.                   -14
so perplexed Iphegine that she could make  "Mercy, mercy!. co iti us igt," she  'i4
no answer. Alcymnos expounded.her silence violently, "nmurler not the 'god en $o
in his favor and thus encouraged he grasped in the temple of my heat! In vai,  n
her hand and bent his head4o kiss it. This vain. Jonathan still is, he mut be hnseI."
operated on her like the touch .of a magic  "Ah, you shudder at the faint doperi:tion
wand. 'She 'was again herself,. She with- of the change that has overcomefJognth  '
drew her hand, rose suddenly from the cush- said Alcymos, "then I shall gay no uqre :of
ion and/as though she intended to teach him him. He is the lionized,' dreadedhegro, :tht
respect by her imposing form,,she confront- is he kills without mercy and sp 4epp00
'ed him and .appeared to pierce him to the child in its mother's womb., ie ip dheret
heart with her looks., "Only one man dared and proud chieftain of a savagei;and fpqpuqp
to kiss this, hand," she said; "if he is a multitude, he must be cruel, hard, erless
traitor, none shall touch it again-if he is a and stern, otherwise he. could neither rnn-
traitor, what is Alcymos whom I saw kneel- age' nor satisfy his votaries; bu$ yo still
ing a weeping, howling, repenting hypocrite love the mild, kind, genero~is and unprteid-
before Jose? If Jonathan is faithless then ing youth; I must say no more. Oonepttio ,
this 'world has no charms for me. If he position and practice change thg dispositii,
forgets his sacred vows. of love, I will not, turn the lamb into a tiger; but I must say
and in the presence of God I vowed to love no more, lest I-disturb you in your pleasant
him forever. Forgive me, Jonathan! that I reveries of past days. 0, dearest Iphegino,
doubt thy fidelity; misery bewilders. For- your deceived, betrayed love can frgivehim
give me, 0 God, that I mention my holiest who abandoned you in the dead of niht;
sentiments in the presence of Alcymos to your generous heart finds a proper Ce ca o
whom nothing is holy, not even the promises for him who hates your own father, perse-
and vows of a loving, afflicted and mortified cutes and murders your and is friends, and
heart."  She buried her face in her hands wades to his ankles in the-blood of innocent
to hide her tears,,and.resumed her seat like men; can you not also 'find an excuse for
a statue of incarnated pain,             him who loves you dearly, and in order to
«                            rescue you he resorted to fraud ina mmefit
"I honor and admire this grief, this fidel- rescue  n hrstenin fraud  i a  -
ity, these tears, this noble anger," said Al. ofsi da erio  ' tr 1 n dearth t  d-
e ~~cisive moment of -his' lovraid earthy hp
-cymos; "not-because I-think proud and cua- pines? O, i rh   be             h   -p
pies ?Oprit e, beloved Ip iinse,
ning Jonathan, elated wi t ransitory success  -..It-fe .r ne-
ing Ja nld        t      tY          think yourself, take back the offensive words,
deserves them-po! no mortal being deserves
thee agele, par, oly  pc~e 1a~Iirewound not the heart that beats for you Qil.
.he.e                                   Be like yourrelfnnoblebecausen, pdmire °ot
sublime virtue, I honor the firm and nobleB l    y     f,    e   a*i           o
.                   the heart that is yours, yours forever."
heart. .for, me,,angehic Iphegine, let your-7.4t.a
heart beat for n  and you will see how the  Since when ae we so gel aqg     te'
happy nman gratefully worships his source of she asked, proudly, "tat you se sueh t-
happiness! Give me this optlent love, these miliar terms as beloydI lpegi    r e, det
mxatchleas affections, and a god -in a temple Iphegin, e9nob e  idea, rid dthe .But
of bliss, I shall 'wrestle with the stars for ri ,              a        4 ir , Ifo@,tpi
their light to crown Iphegine with tt.r-en- to you for this trumpery, for yourkin 4  *
eros maiden, Iii y ur love yon yet see the section ikARp      ad 1n   a9 .    fr
sismde, inn cent and  npretendipg moun-.got, sarto        , , rgot            p
tainee .Jonathan, on him you lavish your enly tlgt I am ign o powes"
resent .ention, but he is ponmore, And yo i  "Always forget these tries,    1-ai e
wpuldseareely recognize'the stern, eunming,: mgs, forcibly gauilng- I~ rW MM   Rpow-
devisig endbeartieas ohief of a rekelhious er, noble Iphegiip-partlo Puf
pigttqd  whapphap4is are grisud wih     ri~hbe psrpiatfo1freipt          am in
the blood o his fellow ereatures, whogeehgrt yoi'rpowerjg how geyreny j)fog reQ
ist harene, 4h0 Napanrs rg: cjoe~ gaist pop9 W yon emgy a
-thmerited n(Eraiw # Pi4194yig and sner~ kavjk ga   ryggiwfg~ gs4       I At# r8
ing, ghisblind to hrpa1 aa1gey' ,     crime to love you, why lapg 49 [ t  ja


a 'Iexilt , nre'than required by &amp; lo ving,
Scredulau" " heai't, ' 'he' aid' "T066j1the
xa 'thy' deat Iyd Eyinghr6'Jonathan='tisk.
ed his 'life' tb resc*ie ~'~s tbecatue
-1es .foves  mxe JionO  ore  Speak, Alc  inos,
would' you 'do' it if your mocthO  all, roux
rin8'your beloved cines, -y" ii ' God
'would be in idanger?'° Doi]  not deo~ei e + ui+
'sef. Oce I ea* you'ini' d ligr - _nd "fthen
you  exposed °the daughteror~ft dour yriejii
and protector to 'ignominiioua 'death to'eave
~yursef-there-you laid upon yoir; kneeta
.#6epini, 7rnoan ing1 lying hypoei'ite. There
is 'a feimale 'keniaa which guards the i rirgih
heart' against the set oison' +6f 'impOs-
tors,. aind this { eryr gen usteacbeemxu&amp;now
to judge' you~r" character by  what 16ae 'een
of you in an unguarded ' moi t, w*luen
yoni ' nature' and not your mask  a jpeirud."
"Happy, th r ce happy ons anhit4'xeaidAl-
cymos, "lov$,is is advocatki,' and '&amp;xpoitndsB
ploits: '°,  tI am seen in' the'light of ndif-
ference, and: :ow unsxgnic4ut are m7 - 4xer-
tions In the estumnatiois-of ier  dont to 'res-
cue 1 "I aved every storm., Look on ,yarni
self, Iphegute , behold the "jewls that adorn
you, the gold, the sl,
'The trumupery, you should sa y;the. worth-
shall=forgi'e you that, you, tink e oisli litly, of
thedaughter 'of Me elatis;fs to belie iOthece
pieces of' miodified-, dust:  nY ht = nbibe' $my
"Then, you refuse '11 e? "hey asked.
«Reiel      id orvr!fshe slud,,
'"A nd #eu' knbw that you', a ie'ln mypew.
er?"."  heoasked. ,    'F     1 a fF-r .    yMf Y1.
Casting a proud and, ontenptuoui lookout
Alc~rns, he ontnue, Ther efdre1Iilisten,
3u ' ito  :t6111jon,'Yowuhhe' y :wife;"
he aidR4oolly;" oi" -=youn tr0 in¢1iy~p Wer"j
di I' 1conteuiun you; menaOes3" she&amp; said:
,,r"'Or you shaU'be 3didgr'aced,;°ry 'co 'c i
'ie: 3OuShall be;"he said;ti that kio honestt

t ''    h  e       b n-  (lcirtn * obi as I .5 1 d Ya,   'I he o is ouptt d WtA
iMe n .' iieiiii Coward I I 'desiiise yo  , femal1    tey;.,
.def your~thi'eats."  ;: .d;F,            ook 1ihi1nEby he2A   i   tiaw l
"T . e cblae, gaucyF woman, for: the favorite ,W;Si rin this h iSe  0**ern
fapain of =KIing Atioohus aund the intend- ge tle # 6bbdeie 6,'he' ixTh ih~p
ed high; priest of, srae'e{e3a eaed    gh    le o        noi*tilIid1
"I understand. youi' diabolic schemae,' she he re 1 hr Ollectic fhe  Xii4'
aId ; "Jonathan -defeated yourseveral times Wh en AAl yo y d , isdj r  +t  oW Ih
nftd you_ thought -of revengee:, To ;marry o door behind thQ seltiee ;he Wauabdtt
digae teis the most.,bitter revenge syou half doe
eould possibly1 take   Butfirtte Blahismust Blind $bl~ek, ~e  the! L  t h e"h'k"
lie d  - sed } ere :his {daughter. ould thus ,be thenwthey'w ire F one,; d G aon; i _ i+
treated. 1  x ddrsta dYow  eLBtyout         sppiseY~oua    *m~    e~~t
forget to take into, consideration, the, strength rmart of. la ighter' ixa~ adii xi f     r  s
zd  boldness of'tan =outraged womalb ; 4 ir xthe had j ust }rdeard to  M : tie
shialtear t h  o . urrmligfm Dos-,in .hilt as e ~e t 't"  ll phni -;
bfrof daretti tuh me"         informed, him df 'th ¢              Ml f%~~of~
;A41  asp ave ' free{vent to hisfurious a- . 4 hi :.the, h4  ao iis   end *s e t reat
-et; and roared= so loud that his, wores wore , ed  t cioh  ttfr  i
hl a  ll~a et the xtensive .palace. .A young these:thipgs ; if' tl t rung w  ben~i~
*6ifian rashly o opened "the 'door an'd, without stautlyl dogged and bhe; ' ° h
ee~nY  tod  im' ' Mymistressftorbids8 u  eieed thie insta taxrei #o  f ia   '
yo3 to'  e  loud i.i r e arin~3  Ti   ;
"fairlyVS nfuri~t    o tdd    " eg fle, sa  Yh- Fax '  . C LI  t T iE m},rx 'xK Xb+ l i
liouwi 1 'Q l '  1het'ri~d,  '"or 1,wi liet yo x  1, , ir  i"  '  l IiiM 7My ~  4 f
feel the whip.".+ 'f                     D t i1*+t   $-~r" UQ1' Ck r +4p4," t  it,&amp; 2
s, nseald Che4r ongu~e of the yousg wo   hexer ' a 1 $ ie"
mnan.,. ". coundrel, ruf ~n, cQ a 4wit~the ot iif, ~tn
, x?                     W    e u   'o am    qutt  nd
sn( 4k aye, freebpq ter rn  n 94acl,. r Ugly,  "}          thi           o
w =i e ye~,4 ytus se~kto au      i    3~9)y
she  coY e.,.r+Yt   ~    overnor Ptolemuy rand Jos    l
i   er of rAmno , i the ,palace of .. pol private  onversa on.   natts ;V
.1 0  4 ,               e 2  . team    2d of wy  e  r  i J' I    i. 7  , ofJr'ir

6


40w$y  4j'w* Te        vahe qa T .y O of edhi- fi-tiond depotis  "d sglftwjlq ee
A.. r*:by       ore by tbewows ed: fate, thatbiud and.ion.o ge       pu-
yeh:    tog of 'tIoeQ reherke:,  gem preme ii Iieven A # a n ed tb gor 'ty
#4   +i:, e      g ;gnog;toA rggst the and id purity acqoiplish ;hF  work, fe-
,#of#i    tha patriots. They struction where enslaved.soulsand fettered
. noa      ,f 9 t bra ..r. I+ have =no intellect-can offer noefletual resistance.-
o   fi  r 9  'fW 99 #  theo, a; iesewill Upon our inountains the edeemere stand
teis talt thu9     f,  inmai; :acchides, and with the nfailingxpowerof the thunder
.'Ti hqusp    . Eo gi   a   b    ! 4ete:and they call the nations 'from darknesato light,
dea                o       ! #d 9Mwl foruer- from error totruth, fromn despoti m'to jus-
4        @   ~thlopagqry; m or4iegotiate 'tices 'and liberty.'On our mountains -the
with             bgkspg  d eohe h  -pl~g ofLysias, 'tr mpet:ofiresurrection resounds, power ll
iy             ll be pieparetod eeeet.nd ly; and natioowafter nation will awake:and
dfh0id         t Itime  give us, ny shout with joy at:£he 'dawn of the moving
..n    .lor4dstnd  we hall beable to prove be of redeemed 'humanity, J.romg urimag-
*'de 4esa4 astht weareiworthy of;lib- tains-floats the balhy breeze of truth, and
ery, in4 a 0l4,*e 09  dselgoverusentn that this breeze will swell into'a wind  sortQrm
,usteauds lighter than powerful ene a hurricane that will erhh and dashinto
.a* ,ui 4 oppnt resourges.'           small pieces crowns, thrones and scept re
Fa oireyo    r countrymen and. wish fiction, error and falsebood, violence,:op"
thrn ti  st#nebssi' eaid' Ptolemy, "and pression and injustice.  Sop the, gegtlP
stiall 'certainly'attempt" to'benefit them inrbreeze and the demons of humanity ill rl
's'1i4 eery'*ise ,u ti request you,no- on,  aof; d still oc 'to destruetionu; Thi is :
pe     fb  e ate yourself to a-.oeitior the diffeieice 'whether 9 viestand, ri fal ,- -
above your patriotic-sentiments and glowing This is the causewhich you support. p-
enthusiasing;' iask afsh ofioh ien I say port Walays and let, the glorion namef lot
assuie a positionhigher than that of the Hiram'n "son be inscribed with goldenlettere
on afyroalu you're a distingiished in the book of truth."
savanggA      tbe ai       e high  than  "Whereis that:book'f truth, venerable
the O comaoinLn   herefore request you, nan P Ptolemy' aked; in  solemn 'toe,
e            A ~'  n p h     triotism, such as Jose never heard'f tlat'hikW.
j a       em&amp;ti~at z     r' o mankind or the 'Where,I askyou, s thit book of 'trMV"
eauhe t              her ,yot littlecoun-  "It edtends frosi subrise'o sunset, and
It t erge tthe S     mapaire,or it 'eferygenerous'hert is i page of' the giga.
eaeienc           Ifn      e   4ises tic book,"'said Jose"everygenerush ea t
's    ble inuegc of     fate of,'hw- of all the generations-that'laay drmiliit ipa
yuren                      e honor the lap' of unr on tune 'ie  the g odlej
ia' ans  &amp;m4 vle'n so do-. book of iPradehnce     adef b  iti is nisod.-
hep;dame wii not the nieHnLthebookwhoselank                    e  I     '-opdh
gener tion a    oserity con- to every man to misii"ibehis =a me upoh
4&amp;irLner, ay' good prnce, if you thenin and 'but few ycan° handle the  T ujil  to
wrie  theirnaes intei                        ' Sile; i ' '^s
A   e eavenly 're 'fr a man thebok n Vhieh'few b iperdiittedoread,
+ha             bnes ishesto and fewe- yet are/ fit to
,saJse.' "d' 'Gotruthnames init re, I sall, ; . therin,"sa:
ea r  1 he$i  , "a I shall read I shal  rtiree      d

T a E MA   .Ai Es.               4

-" 1said    tole    "Spdakfreely,hat'a
tiding'fo   1iy"
]a     h  'd'irtedt your'highness,"
said the  riit." C"ti y tiditigs are tt
verygoherful."  :!      .t   '
"I am prepared: t hear'the=worst," said
he,  bt it must'be true. "'If'there is no
salvation 'in truth,'inf fiction there can be
none'What'have you heard?'a"'
A After very litttie eertioenon my part
suceeded' ii gaining the confidence of big-I
otted' ysias,"'said' the priest,;" and' soon I
wae hie enfidential; friend :"Nicanor.re-
turned fronu'the plains of 'Judah a defeated
mango covered with shame'and disgracemIn
the beggar'sragged garb heappdared before
Lysias, laying'"down  broken sword 'atthe
steps ,ofSyria's trone.- "Myr;lord, the
gods,disple sed with-our cruelty, fight; in
the tanksof Judabis rebels' against out
brves armies,' said the vanquished general.'
ysias' appeared moved' by themiaisery of
his friend 'His'nat'ritive-of the,'wonderful
bravery of the=Hebrews 'ezoited ithe sympa
thy4"anad admiration't of' trysisa rIthought
hiarnpipared to delivetuydurmressage to
hid. 'Irwas, confident of=suocess:He lis4
tened to'youw propositions with. marked at-
ention and 'eceiied them apparently ,ith
-htch' satisfaction.' There appeared an in-
feraal sian t eourt;tan;ambitidus;,lying and
unprinOipledimany Alcymos:is'his' name-
As' the wibdeshakes the slender oilaleymos:
moved'Lysias and changed his mind'-
'Treason,'saidrhe, "treason is the 'causeoof
Nicanoi's':defeat.Menelaus and't olemy
play 'one-game, and Jose ben :ezer2is their'
messenger":Lysian ragedagainstthe revi.
ler 'of his 'two friende'-and forbade'4him eve
to appear agaiu'before his face; 'but;the. re*:
oiler's tongue isJ indefatigable, aijbition .and
hatredbegeta thousand newe'schemet after
the defeii.t of 'a' myi-iad. Aleymos gained
tho faVor and'. cn i4dence of:Lysias."'
The' prieswiped his forehead, then' he
contitifed inlwie  tOne'"Like  icano {I
returned defeated manu
A.: ainfuiSAe "nsued, ,dring 'hipl
tingegoe stefastlynyeddthe goernot
afeatuyga'$     ~an ehtapas elegge@
. igne5P indi1erent4ye vlaelp'2i
t eg~l~ Etaeselpefh ord  ,9Cotinue
"Oneamoring I was ordered' into the

p eseice of'Lysiaa," said 'tiex iest ~: r
rbeei'ed'h  WitheF daded iew:T1  5t '
ed the" very* worestr ' Be o e, aS  @
tor' "                             r '
A traitor!" Ptolemy enla   red, orth-
er roared forth"'thats tho pillrw Ar mblebI
I a traitor'WOosdesertedagypt's  i tg to-
benefit Antiochus-and my unetry?  JT O
minute, ho*eYer, Ptolemy: Ws CQISPP9
and calpn ag evr;befgre.s "   iCoi ,e-
ader," be   d, intie 9oglest t   r.
"I did  gay intanti"' sihee ra .
"                     eigetip  e then le-
of thesecret dispatpohe whchi'Iysia'
to the long. Al9  os    s       utoin4he
as and Baccides gwhithe tria 1,st l0t o

ae u~4  crqpq#' 4tothe   1s
con ey~no lee4.;'  e all 4  .
.sesti^"{,=3,-4    "-4 r  ° t ?ay  '
vaubI  erie  chsall  ll. p  *e  u. lQ yye t; f t s±:-f fA r"   4
*~p~ac~ zd~to eau~s m ry,
yosoter6A r He pd~le 1't
r' ? k I   - -  m  .rI,. .y. jI

140


.Ad    gsis'ahe g e1 ob;4ebis morning ,{.fher' we'..had jugt  ad ,up our
ew  rin    4  gayo r i;i4pegs inmind to retire to rest te foous genergla
theQ QpUjet g 'fa,;Antioeh, wa ain i ted, came in pd.inor ed.Ii pgjes  his
..     $i spesetrmn in peaee?'1.Ptolemyfaithf'u  sp iero,' bets  bythepojxla et
inquired.  --.                        were fast retreating through thie ity gates.
-'sAMyl&amp; di dpidy"!.saId h;'«but}bring The.kingeswore cursede threatened:aged,
8     V   i x  o't 1 thtEas f"r :'  '  spokeiofvengeance ;then! weleft Auniplates%,
Xofft a       nie1 lcomtne i th  oma  dishes cups, bottles,twoh
of + atli, ' A~dthe oaernor.' GitCedne a modities, and 4ook an.earlyprenbade in
fA1%aecodtt of ybenriolth'       '   'the free'Lair 'throgh~te oity gates1-anda on-.
. i    Wi4~'hkjn in, siib4 ne ,P+ N- ow, the fun*as spoiledrdhe king*asin-
sepolie   4      i iffsas kver thg f riated; we couldinxanage him'haaloggere
* n nit  on thC o ir  in Thencame .theexcriting neW of the di ,;
tin s                     niiravsiv h'A!i.id graceftdldefea'tsof Nitanor Ad GorgiasAy
tvi   6              Judah Macabeornd,the  ikn anidesw
Se sq        Bdchi' friends,' againstaiiednost faithful seraeJts,;c
*        nhg                 aen       b   himself. ' NoWt he ;aeazd,
no         rii       ionlike, then he criedike &amp; whip boys"
Soy d P            d       le]sworehe wouldkillieteiy nand  his
e    cu i0 a b  Ies wife or ,*iv es but the neat, gen     :
e' tMaihFihi            i'8 ob dressed like                   e female, sang, idaeder4ajed
blag and ked;. and asked ^use whether hCt waspgth
t ee~          ()ftI   ima~  Aiegii 'most beautifulwoman inathetinpirk' Sharuei
th n~ ii~i66iug onitheli, L thought that suf'efr tihe gov-
I~Ii0        'S Wit  e  w ediit  ernmentofsuch  king' but, Jaccorrigg
~ w1~tfy &amp;phldsonlidrs jheifahhiong I wasi loudes'in praising&amp; tb;
a;        '' ~ rK  s  a d' - " e' o  fenm ihine -bea -criof  'Antioghue  Epiphanes s
euk ft he bsi                    re  :ThuaswLendeavored toringratiate nyelf
,ntin3 tom         ihG ee    m. in his avor,"Sissipus continued, 'iand
e E i96 19n tw~ ghidr6d gain tiis'4onfidenhein order to win hinzfonr
if~~1f(l g.i 14&amp;offeredbei A p d ~  your 'ise proposition; y dorda~ gelmaa
h ad~      ~    0 ryI~it    is uti  indeed'inelinedito listeritoebacilaoryrmeaA
t aco       n        ig       soisursiandeomrtineshe even begawhhselfe
S prpsed   reg t      Iae u&amp; e ittospeak of respect to nationalreligiopeut-
h e          teVc' a  nadr  'd toms, lak'st.andismatitutions. die spokemote'
S t       oi     e glori       frequently 'than e er ofthe rights of
Efi    Yi     "~'~              '     tiors to be respected 'by imonarohe~tle force
of cir90nustances wh~ch'colitrols also thb de
rtlantermination of'Wise prinesnay, heeven
iie~4i~ed'Sofa~~ilwas riht, spoke of the will of Jrovidence, to. which'
ec rrsnoisunertno          pctestates aust bow*with reverence,;audI,
3 eer  pa teers.  be p afenin     a    h   f
St 4dp                   thought u beg A      the  ery gated  my
dp    h      ii rtugnQrtie4bi. pqpl i hpes   t         b'er  rr tesp~eciard me ,
e              r lnoers Ipd       erf"yin      d  n e  e
en4          e 44  p e&amp; vid  'to e dffiora of 1nasusdoSaaria  and Jerua-
e~t~  w~4fiu~n ta~~t~ o~helem were strongly siuspeeted f dreaeonlend
~~~oiq~y     gs O~f4lwyh need   pirdcy,'ad heagainfcel ito dlellribns
A"t'ekin               g-  I1 -t f,  madnss.  M4 ain  dhan"yi
'a*titr                              t in evt  ikit~e"  T*hed
t    xo   *the     .h'kin.ofthe poor people e  s' toi i  e
yed" Fbd       i  e  st for  aaJy Yone  ulike rip  dranges t; no Hne' 1 ife ssa ,

THE    'MACCABIEES.                              4
b   this would not have deterred me,  J4udafs lion is in danger, if Gi o
nor   prived me of the hope finally to man- not enlighten the mind of ourb xMr  N
ege him," said Sissipus. "'Too late, alas emy," said .Tose, that evening,  wlien, it;
much too late fori.you and Syria, I learned in council with the Sons of'theS r  iiif
that he had given his command concerning Solomon. "lcymos, the wicked fiend of
you and, the revolting provinces. On hav- Israel, the very serpent we animatedtilota
ing been convinced of the entire failure of bosom changed the mind of Lysias against
my mission, 1 withdrew from the king's pres- us,'and destroyed all the good wor-1 tcm-
once to inform you thereof, and to caution polished by Ptolemy. 1f Ptolei's am'yn
you in time, my lord.                   now when the patriots are engaged in  odi,
" If you failed none could succeed," said Ammon 'and Moab, invades the holy land,
Ptolemy. " Tell me the king's orders con- and to save his life and honorhe will do'it.
corning me and the revolting provinces.?'  God's cause is exposed to threatening. dan-
."ou will receive the king's command, ger.  May God protect the .priote,
by Lysias, his mighty favorite," said Sissip- glorious warriors."
us.   They will.be to.this.effect: His will
otierning the revolting provinces remains   .CHAPTER        X X X   I I
unchanged.   Death or unconditional sub    .    TBE DAaIoIG EXPI'i'.
mission to his mandates is,'the order of the Before the walls of Jazer the ariyofthe
day ' You, being suspected of treason, will patriots under Jonathan's connnand was e-
immediately invade the land of the Hebrews, camped. The- sunburnt countenancW, th
Timotheus and Bacchides with their weather beaten brows, the stern and  iahly
while                         faces of the warriors in the idst ofa
hosts cross the Jordan to support. your ma-
nouvers., If you crush the'rebellion, the gion decked with verdant vegetation and
suspicion of treason is wiped from your luxuriant- blossoms looked like a thunder
name- if' you fail in this, you are command cloud in a serene sky. At a short distance
nam ;if oufal n tis yo ae cimii d-from' the walls" and towers of' the city the
ed to end your life by suicide, or the king's o hwln         e    fe        t
emissaries will secretly execute his will.- tents of the patriots stretched out id
Pardon me, my lord, that I thus boldly say wide and regular avenues entire
' High entrenchmentss and numerous fasade's.
what I know to a certainty. I know that                           -
are not the man to be terrified- by truth The camp had a triangular form. In etVef
you                                     corneT a wooden tower raised its nttnaclest
I also know that you still might save your
life and honor.'    .                   a hight above the city walls sd that the'sen
"Sissipus is an honest man nd a atinels could look into the' interior ofrthe 'citg
" Sssius-is.an;hoestman'an afaith- In the camp hilarity and joyfulhess rttigied
ful friend," said Ptolemy, without changing supreme. The warriors havirig def ated the
one feature of his countenance. "I thank  rmy of   ichide and-killed thI 'ii- ighty
you for your' faithful 'services, and I wish  havino  c  eit        thrroughdhW
that you instantly return to the king and powerful columns' of' the eneiuy aind defeat-
endeavor Again tochange his resoluttion cbn- ad evry body that attempted to stay thNO
corning tle revolting provinces. Sissipise progress, were intotieated -ibh- victory and
your county and suffering humanity require elated with sucea s. The songs of -iettny
'that yoSi ueTrt all your ingenuity and pra- echoed front Hall doridAe'if the ariipwh, f 'i
deofi 'ut behalf of'thse revolting provinces. the shouts ofglfry oidedfroh ie4,
{o hence, with my gratitude and bl'essing. and courage and diaing boldbe  Vra* d
$isipu s retired: Ptolemy called hi4ad iantd framever r onnt ttadde ;;  4
/"tan7 and 'gave  urgent orders for move ' Highpinitds the ary 1 GWtadiA
ensf different wings of his aurmywgg h' aae it' i a the inorh gutifing~ (R #
~erfi~l4~eo th u  ostSdo nr activ- thtnew the then'Admfiit Mwtdr
*tywas4isa ed in tiz  di fterentdj art~ fidt4bd agtti*Mt b&amp;4&amp;ehf el'y
~  I4  lf~~odobt in e1h inol ~e 6d%         th  3alx"ri~zl u~W~
~ ~  at       invo JtdasN wIt lhnd1httee
kisw~ho   ~ ny~                        brew warior   nbgat


TnE    FIst 1
Notwithstanding Ahe indigna-  " Aspasia, you say ?" Jonathan asked,
i op rmanifested in the camp, no David much surprised. "Did I not send her to
-   e - e     Dd'I    o sn    at
.wpuld rise to smite the hlasphemous and in- Mizpal ?"
sui ng  oliath.,  Come on, ye cowardish    I know you did," said Amram; "but I
flies that sting the defenceless,,and escape also know that she escaped, came down to
,through he fingers of the hand uplifted to a Edom in the disguise of a mountain girl, se-
fair fght, they would cry from the walls; duced some of the besieging warriors, and
we will beat you to chaff and send you to succeeded in abducting a considerable body
your impotent gods.  The Hebrews had of men from those forts, and led them di-
S o battering rams to break down the strong rectly to Jerusalem to guard"that city. 'It
walls or open the gates covered with heavy was a masterpiece of cunning °and deceit,
iron plates, and could do nothing against such as would do honor even to Alcyinos
the enemy   behind strong walls. They himself-'
Znashedtbeiifteeth in impotence and shook "ls that Satanic woman omnipotent?"
he fists against theblasphemers; but there Jonathan asked, while violently striking the
thei fls-  handlettheofashise sswordher
was no David to chastise the presumptuous handle of his sword.
Goliath:                                "She is a witch, a legion of devils are in
There in the midst of the camp was the her service," said Amram.-" But - Judah
tent of Jonathan and John who command. Maccabee, on learning this treachery, re-
ed this wing of the arniy. Amram, just re. turned to the forts and, after close inquiry,
turned from a tour, sat by their side and lie identified the traitors, punished them se-
coimunnicated faithfully what ie -had seen verely, and with their hair cut short, their
andheard. ".Judah Maccabee,;like an irre- beards shaved close, their garments cut
sistiblehurricane swept oer Bdom and Mo. short and their weapons broken in pieces
aband none could resist his impetuosity," he sent them  off degraded to infamy.-
said Ainram. "Like the eruption of a vol. 'There are traitors in Modain, father Mata-
cano his fire;consumed the enemy every- thia 'he roared forth, and his wrath was
where,andliketlhe earthquake he overthrows indomitable. The warriors indignant at
thn wherever they stand up against him. that treachery stormed like furies upon the
Timotheus the invincible was beaten in ev- forts that appeared stronger than the rocks
cryengagement, and his armies are scatter- of' Sinai, and the walls were mounted, the
adto the fdcur winds. Gorgias, the cunning gates were forced from the inside by the
tactician, was: oLt-generalled and covered lion-hearted patriots who made their way
-t           .                        over the walls into the forts. ,
with shame ; he returned to his master to o
tell' the story of his fall. Philarches, who  And I nust lay here idly, gaze at these
came from Jerusalem   to besiege the.He- walls and hear the wicked blaspheme God
brews in the valley of Akrabinh whither and his people!" Jonathan exclaimed, with
they had fled from before their fierce antag" gnashing teeth and cramped fists.
"From this moment Judah with his whole
osists  even the -.boasting Philarches is                 -         -  .    -
dead ;. Judah Maccabee smote that oppres; army pressed upon 'limotheus with irresis-
ur, of Israel, and.his, band was devoted to tible force. Joshua, David and Joab could
theedge sof the sword. En Edom the peo- not boast upon a brave y like those of Ju-
pleafter several successive d  ts, fed in-. dal Maccabee and his conmatrits. No
t theis strong holds to .n J dah there walls were too high, no fortifications too
"up it succor could iea'" them  tam C'elosY-strong, and no army too numerous for them.
ia. But Judah left $i    . and Joseph to They overthrew or out leaped anyobstacle
biegg. tbhl strong for .  proceeded-with in their way. Neither horses~nor elephants
9ds f hisanen 4e s hject the country culd withstand the furicus assgaults of the
to .h' 2my~   *ui     iusiec 1p~a high-spirited warriors. Under the iispring
.ti~h%9meps    oman, succeeded in seduc- songs of th  Levitesd he thunder of war-
ag  m Buti'dha bseieging pati-iots, anda bhng trumpt  and tfe shuts of ictoy
ge dyd     f $-esieged eseaped,:an    hey dashd rin. upon their enemldes,.ifa
~ ~em tqJeiit~Jm,,a tilat oityloe 10       hough mountis ad a  b~

THE E   MACCABEES.                             147
allies, though the heaviest, 'darkest clouds which~the passions of vengeance; -l6 e  -
had burst and' the' thunderbolts unchained, ger blended with regret and commiser Lion
sothey fell upoin their enemies wherever they spoke in a peculiar language of -dimb rage.
met them, and routed' them conp'etely in  A messenger fromnMizpah was announced
every encounter."                      and instantly admitted. The man reached
"And' I must stand here and gaze inac- Jonathan a letter carefully folded and seal-
ively, at the walls of Jaiert " Jonathan ex- ed. He opened and hastily glanced at it.-
claimed.                               " It is Rebecca's hand!" he exclaimed, joy-
" And I must stand by inactively," Am- fully, and Amram no less joyously repeat-
ram  exclaimed, "and partake not in the ed these words and stared, with intense anz-
glor of Israel! How shall 1, forgive thee, iety into the countenance of Jouathan, as
my father, that so terrible an' oath chains though he would decipher the words of the
ray hands, lames and cripples my manly letter ,from his countenance and ,loks.-
aRns! Not in vain, did I play the part of Jonathan's color changed, now a red hue
the fool in this great struggle, I am indeed flushed over it that suddenly gave' way to a
my fatherr' fool.                    ghostly paleness. Wildly his 'eyes -rolled in
"Also you play an important part in this their sockets, his lips quivered wh agita-
great drama," said Jonathan, soothingly. tion. Finally he threw away .the letter,
" You have done more than many a cour- laughing furiously, afid darting foth looks
ageous warrior. Especially am .I grateful of wild fire he exclaimed: "I will aftez"all
to you for the rescue of Iphegine at Ach- rescue her from the -hands of herfile se-
shaf."               ,,   .drcer. Once 1 loved her, and she shall not
SI understand you," said Amram.-~ fll a victim into the hands of thie saa
"You wish to 'know of me where Iphegine  u  o
. - . lousys cow ard!l
is. She is in Jazer as Aspasia in a moment  "May 1 askhyou what all this  means?'
of consternation told you. She was brought Amram. asked, shily.
thither bycommand of Aloymos, and Alcy-  "Yes, you shall know it," said Jonathen,.
rmos was the very man who sent the roving "You accused me of haightiness, 'p'ide,
party to Aehshafto take Iphegine and delv' faithlessness, in Mizpah did you say soito
per her into his hands."
This had an evil effect on Jonathan. He my face, and I was silently as the graveyard.
remembered the fatal night 'when Aleymos Now you shall know the vle treachery'hiqh
informed him of Iphegine's disgrace. Cir- a woman committed on him whoidold
cumstances now only confirmed him in his her, on him wholived hut for her.: Here,
prejudices against her, and like a statue he read young man, read and curse not the
sto d awhile motionless, his underlip press- creature called aoman;--for my mother: of
ed between his teeth. Aniram -could not. that sex. Read, but for the sake o
tink     anycauseof     ahan'ssuddesoul, curse not the holy affection calledlovW)
ink pf any, cause .of )on  ha'- sdde
for T 'know -it to -be c. sacred daughterd f
change of temper except his mortifying he-
lief of being unable to rescue Iphegine out heaven."
9f the stronghold which he besieged.--- Amram picked up, the letter and road
Therefore he continue this; "The enemies thus:3
after being defeated 'everywhere fell back  " MY BELOVED BROTHER JoNATHAN r en-
u on its strongholds, and Judah Mac abee fold do 1 feel the woe which I' thus potr in-
--.to 'thy gener~pasoul; nay, I wo '44sttare
reduced one place afterthe other. Within my life to extract the painfgi-tiigonw th
a few days he must arrive here with his noble heart which 1-am nowab iut pressing
main force; then Jazerwill certainly be ta. deeper into' thyn wounds. dt F ltn'r thee
ken and Iphegine will be resened."    tu) be a man o truth;. l can a de~e thpe
" Tnr?  OWI sy!" onahansudenl nor suffer thee to be dleceivgd by te
M~nN  NNI ay" onthn udenyIphegine, after being U~~tuired bytl'$ '
exelaimned "~ 1 will rescue "her -from the ans ati:Achshaf, made good her escape iti
cruel hands of her sed"- here he stopped scejteddin ceding some ofou~ .wariors
sbruptly. 'The word died on his lipsdand who led her to.ia, h


8                     Tiu     FLR$ST   0,?
Qie     cc rtin he               led oir ,parts under their feet, drank with
r     Ftd a  hertob      whi huc lc   w delight our reeking gore, disgrace our sia,
r t  tedher   be" I succeeded, With,
littleruble in extorting a confession .terdishonored our brothers, debased ;ur
xf  l pr iip. r 'ich, the pen refuses to corm- ,priests, and poisongd our paradise. S phis-
uun qte   My .beloved, hapless brother, try, corruption and abasement are the terri-
etrse -'her rot she is an unhapya ale
rie ot; shsi ean ynhredpyiafallen ble allies of our enemies to chain or kill
o'xnam falin even beyond redempticon                                    ;
'After Ihad heard ..her- contessiotn .  those who would not otherwise yield to
changed her chabiliments, imposed silence treacherous designs. Ten thousand of Isra-
and another name n her,' hat our good el fell, fell like Iphegine to crush ten thou-
'mthen  e,not, inortified by hearing the sand hearts. Speak no more of angels in
1eandateus'estorybandeshe was with us s-ge
y r =dly  "';ne morning 1 found her roo .these days of corruption. Vengeance be
esergtd;.She was gone. 1 found afew lines the watchword, This pestilential air mnust
i eroom, of which this is a faithful cop,: be purified by whistling arroirs and clanging
ye' 1aastiig    No e  er  an I vear swords. We have drawn our swords tode-
~y   a~ing looke,; every one of 'which     '
,Mpaksto my wounded heart, thou hast be- stroy the hydra with lher, numerous heads
,   (4 the1bes, .noblest and most 'beloved which spit the venom of denmoraliztion in"
Mhar in this world.  1 love him as no other to our very hearts. Destruction of the ter.
womnadi. ever witi, but I deceived him, and r
e   i -     l    i ha  a      nd v    rible hydra must be our only -thought; the
br fer whose grey locks would hedis root of the evil must be destroyed. She was
onoredb bmy fall should Aleyros ever pub- amiable and innocent like a Seiraph;, pure
lsh '   Whatever he said to Jonathanhe and afcgotionate, kind and faithful was she,
ylcetamlydcotmmunicate to others, 'if l
will     tyo th    n     T o             and confiding like a child. 'Her love.-Let
en him to he utmost. Therefore, may
fp9  hve    ercy on ie--r4 go to Jazer :in me say no more of her; "it is not she 'tho
EnAmon, where Alcymos is said to be, and fell, my people did;'niy anger can net fall
his wife.  Pray for your despairing upon her, it must crush our villanous %edu-
PBEuce.s.1shallrescue her,"let ten thousand
Hearing that thou,. besiegest. Jazer in .
tramon' , being confident of thy success, magic circles enclose, ten thousanddragoons
4 9tiud be ilent no longer that thou, on en- watch her. Aleymnos shall not betray his
tenin  hatoe itfecoen nott deceived by her victi n, she shall live in peace .without fear
~hr'offeetioins might beguile thee to em-                     pae
lrag,,the'. fallen woman. I 'know   thou of her seducer's evil tongue.  IWill seal
never forgive me,:if by my silence up his' lips and restore her to len father.-
pkn whet deceived. 19ay Qo4 cor~sole thee. She loved mie once, loves me still; if I can
Thy sister,         'RECA.       not press her to this wounded heart,  will
wone .ebrt h,**'ll
Ae feleopd, hell itself plays hkile- not abandon her to the embrace of a vil ain,
gi pa4es ,'Atramn gried;"Rebeca aceus nor expose her to the caprice ofa scnda-
,,opf#gme treacherous disgrace, the an; los seducer. This night, I lift up 'my
g916Akil again froin heaven, the destructive hand to a sacred oath-this, night yet I will
'l Iug - rek in again upon this sinful race: rescue her, restore her to liberty and dhrliv-
if this is true, Satan's delusions are no less er her of the tyranny of her seducer  s
JEN;) ~iif a falsehood it is, then. the an- sure as ifatathia was  n  father;-Iise,
gels of light turned into a gang of base liars. comrades of my gry ahd companions of
at orotl erue, nor can it be false, My my toil! Rise aid prepare for' the ght.-
"ra    tn                   bM  u n li e a whirlpool."There must We must take Jazerere thesunrises asi.
be  gtis     hiteoewhere. Jonathan, is this Long enough we have been idle.   rel.
bids, honor commands, the  heart thirsts af-
i iagnd the 'man who brought        ter action. Rise and fight!"
48i lerta~eedited inessenger," said      In' Jazer none thought'even of the bare
.1~l~~m ~i~hi, ile the miror of, the jea 'fossibilitye that the city could be:1,aker.----
A tyrn. "My sidef kinwse Cut oi'frkomevery communieatiori ith' their;
R ~J;~ thanle her fohr Ithis 'infortsationd aripyoutside of the city, theytill ee d
~k~o'to~    ngelein ths 'dase of daily the approadh of iwotbeus ~itf ne&amp;
989e odarfe 'main aimto raise tbesiege.' oti

TAE     MACCA BhX' S.                        '
larity of its champions. Feast after -feast ty withgne ndi be happy, o     d
followed to keep up the spirits of'the garri Iwill always treaty ' itb th
son. This night Cheraeus feasted in the a sister. ''
house of Apollophaies, and the costly dain  "I am unwort h  of 'a  our       nd
ties and clioice wines on' the table were a kindness, because r canA no t- eipro
suficient proof  the superabundance of them,' said Iph'egine. "WIth ;his Ci96
all provisions in the city.             heart nand agiousotI cannapp
While the Ammonite warriors celebrated your love and benignity. Le mie  hA
their nightly orgies in another apartment myfather, and in happiness ordie
of the palace,+Iphegine kneeled before the will remain you'siister, yoIn  st n c -' iCii
favorite wife of Apollophanes, her guardian ate friend. Never shall I forget your 'ki d-
angel; and prayed' with .tears 'in her eyes- ness. Let me return toien  em,"""
"tet ne tetirrito6erusalem to see iny sick,- " I can not, I daren ,she  IPd%
old father; for,las, they say he is nearly painfully,' "farewell I' can notad19i9
at the point of death. Refuse rot, my ho- nred' oath binds .me. FareW41e, o e
ble lady, hear the prayer of my tormented maiden."
heart let me see my father once more be-    Mercy, merf; atay ore miste Iger
fore he dies. Let me have this only co~iso- stay, one more' word hearf" Iphegiie ode
lation in this life of peril and nisery." ' desperately;:but in' vain, She was 'goda nd
" Compon   'ouidelf, firlady," said~Lu- Iphegines was alone with her grisf :a'nd -a i
cia the wife of 'Apollonis.  "Might'ifot iety. She did not sit long where i henlot
Y- -.       p                     ,was quietly ripened;' nd Gesoftwall  in
Alcymos have intentionally spread this ru-
mon to bend your pride, as he told you Jon-on his'toCS., She roesuddenly, eil
athan was capturedM Besides, you can not him, and 'cried enthusiastically'°f M 1rre.
possibly reach Jerusalem, as all r+ads ar deeniy savior comeei" Theh she looked
occupied by soldiers, rde and reckless war- at his ouintenance and asked hiAstteish'
niors."''             ed, 'Didvthey not kill'ftheef 'm  good i664
rior8s                                                         r  F P.  d
"My God will'protectme " said Iphegine.  not Aicyrnos hav thie    a       '
"'the hope to adinister consolation to my  The ad   rodkd m     * t fo
'fte  il        ham&amp;ber -and provided,,h-*  yf
deserted and betrayed father will quicken conld'not find te," aidGelorti
my steps and animate the desonding spir-  .
its, not to falter, no, to fail, till I'have reach- ean  oute  of  ah  d , nd  hi ch 4   a
ed the couc'of my sick father. Imagine,oa   C'
I beseechyou, imagine for a moment how   wytic        stl  hns              k
I b  ,pose incase of emergoeesNot
he stretches out hid arms after his daughter;callndae of' e ciame  N +   fM
how he longs after her, calls hername inc:mn            whai megoq  Pt  1|b
inooem' nd 'tell 'you, what 'I,~~~l
the moments of delirium; imagine, I im- me o 'the hidingfac   e i'eatetif
plore, his grief, his disappointment when he clothes,modef and  astigb  g.i
embraces the air,, and the stranger' slips an- away!" ' 'e'
swer instead of his daughter.' HIae mercy  " Take thiaslantern," she said:ogeful
on me; let .n goin peaee; care notefor my with;the cloak, pro.ceepd, follow." #,t
safety; I will swiftly, like the Gazelle  O(nhis toes, eo   reoededtbr ih
cross the Pla1d, the rgde and, eckless eel bg eoridorsog tie pee nd I ghjp
dierishallstart hack at the daughter's coin- followcd&amp;'al4 asbeadbl(  ge
mansi g look, who hastens. to administer down a d   ifrkrdfi  g . t hag
"      ,B. nPpee-04s not sick and this a et'iddet5 pioektA
trick   f ~A sjiasia tcelude:you ba.ck te Je lanteng 41degi r
reusolem to.~t you again in her power'? filedwith geap
the ad askedsgni~catlf; "willdonthas #ppael44  a9,p     Y     t~~
imni tdji expose ,ear life,'slien:liar. en~4yy~t~s, ak vidsn)
yoiiebsefe en asionig esilve osneiso  alggpy4iht.r
gifwayonu  h inkigyowmelt Ijuhogiea Reheteba@J #


T~' FiiST    0oP
' Tf ar i                       rra tF  r e "s ,9, s   tnew
fa     uteIphegine was isguised      ns ar take it, the boldest of the host contrived to
od' r6iew peasant and Gerson ashis' guide. climb over the wall, and being inside 'of the
oney rust help   through, said 0er- city fought'their way to the gate, opened it
9p,,  before we must    ave a goodly the rest .of the host stormed in, and the city
que tity . of these precious  metals and wivs taken. Whoever of you is bold of'heart.
stones pA    filled a leather bag with cost- and can climb walls let him follow me to do
l tngs, another with victuals, chose suit- the same as Joab did."
ofedfor both, reached              Instantly twenty ypung men drew their
ft some torohes n   begged lphegine to swords and without another word they fol-
m      e    god cheer      You lowed brave 'Jonathan, and the twenty he-
are my olffather," said he, smilingly, "thy roes were followed by manymore. Jonathan
t       n $hr $y-ian .r the febrew-amp, led them to a point of the wall he, had sur-
%#c9o   sances require, you must see them veyed to this purpose.. Favored.by.he dark-
9ofor ou die. It's all right, follow with- ness of night they reached the wall andun-
out delay                               detected they reached its top..]Iere they
S Iy rng,G orson, I have lost my ring," saw the bands of soldiers gathered around
phegine said, "the ringwithtthe seal  heir fires in the different spaces of the city,
.Weda get. another, no time, must be eating, drinkingand shoutingobsgene songs
lost }ow," Grson admonished; "we are in They went on thewall tota point of easy de-
thegreateetntanger."                    sce' , and like furies fell on the unsspect-
L i$ opathan' ring, I can not lose it, ing and sleepy sentinel. Before 'the alarm
0e.igente ,  _must have the ring." reached the garrison Jonathan and his men
Tr noiserapidly dnereasingabove their nearly reached. the gate.,.Here. a stron
heads; and the imploring.,wordsof Gerson force *et them and a sanguinary struggle
induced ler;to go and;leave the ring behind ensued. Jonathan; and his .twenty h9Sen
her;   ith;tearsin 'her eyes she;followed men forced their way through their assail-
Gereonthrough the subterranean gangway ants and with their heavy hammers they
tot;:mouth, creeping then thre gh masses dashed asunder locks aid bars befurethe
of,1 oopg they arrived in the midst of a palm champions of the citycould prevenitt oW
g'yright at the bank o a river. "Eher the gates were opened, the patriots' like the
uki     tuA be nearor theriver is fordable," resistless hurricane stormed'  to the city,
sai' er n; 'for' thisis their place of es- and with furious shouts they' elf on h; i-
p Agnhepalace.     He searched about enemies. A fierce combat ensued,  dread-
.   he trh, bu    o skdfFwas visible- ful carnage followed. Chereaus and Apo-
W  tut'sa ng  ward he forded the. river lophanes were soon on the spot to neep the
aosUdvingcrossed it, notwithstanding the as ai ants at the head of heir hosts;zboth
{i po eetatins of Ipbegine, returned and pati s fought with vigor and' unterifid
le Jer aorQs5mthe stream,. Then.they press bravery. The 'age of the  arriors grew to
ed their way onward through the grove.- fu-y,the dead, wounded and ying increased
Godtprotsetithe lonelytwanderers.      with'every passing moment. Over the dead
Meanwhile the hilarious feasting in the and 'through the streaks of    d the wari-
Wity kid the ativ'itrtin the besieging'host ore proceeded to struggle, victory or death.
6 in'd  Jonathan' and' John;'under   the When the sun' rose' over Jazer thefurious
crv4er 'atf,'the ,dght drl e  'uptheir host'in combat had not in the least abated, hot'i
'rnk ad 'flle oppoeit 'the principal gate of i*artiesstillt'ought'and hurled  d6tr  atki o
the 6a uxid   thcofiad6fohn. After each other. "Chereaus is "dead,    iid&amp;d
ths   iaratiehs '*re omipletede Jonathani throiighi'the city like 'the'dlaigfathefatalr
set tM'ilicho$4ae1i opanions inrmis: aMy kdiell, and disorder . nddeonisian gavei 'a
s"J'gedsldthmil~ itnobn and the'patriots considerable advantage to'the £ebrowalover
i$1i 1heNu'diS 'gaikibw laurels, while we theineeneinies.' 'With gro'winga.hepes'and re-
r  idI~fhe*  thlese*al 'Ourhonor re- aniniatedfapirits the Lehresuttjkekd their
4  ejt't~t4@'tke athis ity. Retmitaber eniyddyblj~iophad~esfdhi~'~heemified
h~ine          dbhad           o t warriotsnried'andnmany of lhem th46wieg

THE MACCABEE.
away their arms fled speedily, while the oth-  "Yo are free togo wherever you
era felan easy prey before the Hebrews.- .Tonathan said to the ,oineis. "Th  at
Now: the most enthusiastic shouts of victory nel will give you our watchword t o t
rented air, In a few hours ith  soldiers you unmlestedJ thrgir 'at       s.
wereodisarmed and tied, the Hebrew captives  "Even to Jerusalem'"  u'uia a :
released and the city was in the power of  "Also thither," said he.  Wh' d. If
the Hebrews.                            wish to go there?
In vain did Jonathan examine the captives  to Iphegine, my lord, she proposed me
and search the houses of Jazer; Iphegine the love of a sister; I go to  aulemu'9.h
was found nowhere. Like a' fury he ran said.
from house to house, searched through every  "And when you arrive at Jerusp1i  tell
apartment looked into every countenance; hers" said he, "Jonatlin for theti dtaid
but he found her not. It was impossible risked his life to rescue he.  f
for an human being to escape ding the she'shall go I will'follow l1  $I willp 6
figh, if she was here she mst be hre ye, her."rs
he thought; and continued his search. He  "'Are you Jonathan?" he asked,'hatiff
reached the palace of Apollophanes. The "Pray tell me, I have to inform yot oof inany
tokens of last night's orgies were still visi- interesting events."
ble in the vast hall. He ran from room to  "I am Jonathan," said he, "speak and
room, but the vast palace was deserted. He ease your mind:"
finally came into the very room in which but  "By thetlove of Iphegie, of pure, affec-
a few hours before Iphegine stayed. The tionate and chaste'Iphegine,aI assuaidiyed
first article that attracted his attention was that 1wfas her honest, steady and 'vevvigi
the ring bearing the initials of his name lant guardian. 'Ifprotected her aaienst'the
which he once gave to Iphegine. Here she violence of Alemos,I saved thexboiy b neot
must have been, he thought, and ordered the and gave' her the means tio esospetac Jeruied
strictest  eardh through the Whole palace. 'lem  Ilove -her-sister4ikeandshe gWordte
Hi orders'were punctually obeyed, and thus reciprocate myaffections 'Bethei-efotij
the entrance to' the subterranean inlet nlimerciful, my lord, sendment alor ettArough
was found.' Some men descended and found 'the' landfilled with warriors.  ard eia
beside the treasures stored away there sore. unprotected Widow not ued t 'hatlehiea:-
terrifid women' cowered together in a dark shame. I pray d  sd wgua rdith
corner and imploring for mercy. The wealth to Jerusalem, to' Jphegine. 8he'wil1 re el
thus found and the wonien were brought to nie :5 a sister."" '    '
3oriathan  'Among them 'was Lucia, the     You' shall' go i peace to 'ay:.aceof'
wife of Apollophanes.'           '      safety, ' said'Joniathan,  at'ae ir6ee e
"Did you inhabit this palace?" Jonathan Uher Iphegir   dif
asked.'                                 A debased'rwofan 'rules the+a! I illbtid
I was the proud'mistress of'this'palace " you'to N4izpah, there foui@e#sif,~anid}  t
said' Lucia, " before your bands'entered egin shalll .fealloweu sauthitl e  t i 'lh'is
tliis 'city now I am a wretched'widow, an tiiie.-But pmanaiy lady; tell 'in hh
humble captive.". ''v                   yeu to protet Iphe gire against = tbie'°
"Did yo tgive shelter in this palace toa ob lcymos?"'' .
ne called' hegu      th edaughterh of 'r"'Because h6 followed h i'r'hi 1
jheluestionred.              pouse jher,
"Lash night hortly before or du  the 1te-ny if~iseAs t $           1
attb   mnde' updi'thecity she escaped,"' sord'to
saidtaiid   lbeli ve throughh the subiter to be~ avemige  yod~6.Alu~iii
"An  we~eieAlymo?  Jnathan su     o4    '~        l't&amp;     ~    ~    t
4enskd


teetion .      g iq eg   ll ewith you. ;
e call Ac, ram and  requestedhim to es-
cort.uc ,n and her.cmpanins to Mizpah,
and t9 overtake lphegine and Oereon before
t  c      raldea6h J erusalemn"
filetl tiew he company withdrew
e   i (-. Jonathan almost along in the' im-
?o. ia1a~e, 9 "si4t a dream or reality "
4q  4a Z cried when he was alone. "Who
and hobeis wrong in utis matter..
My brain revolves like a wheel; I know. noi
'bha .,t think. My sistercan not deceive
4 ,'n4 this woman can not be a hired im
postor."
CH APT ER XXXIV-
T~E oox JIr unorr.
AMetMiapah 'the. heads of the people were
as'epbled to consult with the sons of Mata-
thia foWkatshould;be dorte nex  Lysias;
S eintorasiddbysias himself .t the, head, o
the*.dst formaidable.arruy Judah:had seen:
yst3aRte with  theai tentidn of snppressiug
th.ebelon .and exterdimating :every per,.
p wh' fioughtrforiter'only favored it.-'-
irlygwa estir ated at o,0O0amen with
pjy 4 '4  ephauts, eaipisgn ap4  horses
di eQbi!{ e erindersof :all the defeat.
4;bietJpieed the rm Fpf Lysia which
tame down the eastern ast thre tening
4ap44 e rogetio  a every oppgnen t.-
1              tgfters manyad brilliant
t   8  blaogerl k nowp indIsrael; ,but
Qe  e + eu otyye inse orseriousappre0
1 pine, apee lmly ,ith, ho§e who were
t h  atie inore calmand f areflect,
g dpostioni: They understood perfectly
w t pthatj 'e;:ddss notwithstnding; all the
bravery, were in favor of Lysias. The sain
~e'ient wih :I1wtswy did L: sias leave
t           prramp  theince sue-
is e oreu     ohi cr",e, ore  .person
rpthpp         es th. rbello
Jt~     y  idit oPtoley eoine
' + F# , 'pd re te ' r i ~rc

"Hi pIRST OF

the side°o ,thei enra ptured mother  asis-
ter, and tlie tales of the ia1neexploitsh i
Edom, Amnion and Moab were  naatedand
the heroes' bravery duly admiredThere
sat hippy mother Miriam; charmed with in-
expressible delight she looked on her five
sons, none, of whom had failed to perform
his most arduous task, to meet and. surprise
the most sangurnaiyiexpeotations o+ the best
patriots. There she sat and'with unspeaka-
ble delight, maternal af'ections and patriotic
pride she listened to the grand stories of her
sons' glorious victories over the enemies otf
her people. She wept while others shadte4
with joy, and every scene of danger ai
bravery passed. her sight nmagnii ed by. ma-
ternal affections.
At her right hand sat Jose beni Joezer
who insisted on making no communications
until, mother Miriam had heard the whole
story of the last campaign,to which he him-
self listened, with profound attention ani
marked-edmiration.
It was not awarof conquest but' of 'da'
fence whieh they, waged; Those natianai-.
ties. being innmical to: the independempeof
dte ebrews gave shelter and support $o the
Syrians, augmented, their ranks, oppressed
and persecuted the Hebrews, who donicilia-
ted an og them and: threatened to iavade
Palestine. The patriots frustrated that 4ieg
sign by;invading the territories of Edom
Noabaid Ammon,:crushed their united ar-
mies, razed their fortificatibns, destroyed
their works of defence, deprived:them of
arms and treasure, released their brethren-
from oppression and took those of them ohe
had no seenrityof ,arson to Palestine where
there was plentyoff roo .for them, Thoe
of the =tans-Jordanic Hebrews who:.could '
handle arms joined the army of the Mecca-
bee; thus. it :returned much increased-in
numbersprovided with, treasures andyfu
cient arias to double. its piners igee4
Al these factswere narrated.by Jon than
with isfervent *a1ogtenep, and'an&amp; er) g  t
h, ;alpresen rwit profoud dattes~tiing
While the warriors spoke of $e     erg
4isplge4t 14battJg  wro ad ho    $Jarit
adventures carried out, her elalic
I acievd  af41'. llus aaded  l ~4
[ 3 insisted uporn Jose to commrunlicate

TNTMAOCABEjS.
noislhis adexntures ipDnasue.wkena him aco ed aeedigd in        &amp;
re bted nddezaetywhtweknow ai     e1rtoafa odWp in ratsb
readypratle   nore to herointwhenPtol4 heatt.for aer asa }_ rie r   a
em4ihmiessed hiand:.isMud there most r1pogre werht t     r   as
urge todersfor the different bodies undeg p n r rto   y M
his:command. "Iheenedt to mnyprivtte He    J pp     n
ahl bet fli  f apprehension 4a regret, overpowerin g e nion.       :
the old man sad, "f tbrer aidlybieved  i roeaa l
ho weuld xreir sa hisentireforce onthis "In tee, noble age,
country, and that at a time wheoaliof yo  of Ptolemy," said he, "fo than
wQZe  sflI e ge   be, n-d J rian ' U ide. burning ploquence didst reclaim h
aed, waltedn theustretfe)  vratoe° li eshnedu    1'sd
ike  nP fA e Iws e  e ith o J ey  ad  eti ixgg em og   e   4 be t h
o        gio ano     rpp r t   t  of Jose who aie  tofeyry      'e
sorgd;e     kn   mofements;oythea;rmy d.be God6wh6 Q  celvi  uti
ip   eIadisenki~e. Jta:ppe a4strainge  to e y, gave J se to Jrf hnd
to me that they did not march diro epilyr  over our estigy. i'Iow lfi us 1be
op   pptrbut chose ap 1i   t  ig   a evidently the Lord is with us. It wil
s  .: ;al r.x y; tIp       B    4 Lysia a lone tise before hel       s
mhy;         adro mean to exlau to hosts:agains us, mean hile  'epin
my el' this arn en ode.oft ;vivqi  ja pared to meet'lii n rret tis tiG n ?
ou   ,e e     y,nerlys its     i     is our Rock 4dnd Shiald".
euthgIt,; t.;to rremaii p's, 5 ~  : s  K T; ;he women :;a*t-ilent teamsf    t'
"s ogaye,'r Burwaibe; p  pe the Twin epradinad  hiio i'f6o a
e kddler was esolved. Ptolep     n ude nd every6     ithad t speaku, 4*i'4r  f
called me, I appeared, he was.u~ngsu ell praise riad egifet for  ishi
paley   s you , i , oloxrdeT              66fdW  railsea  dst #6d58N
ly    W     he i tto al e a tod aidsFceusful e etiohesf J e'A
del~t  x t  he~J;w  te ,ell , 4tra p.ae  ,ever, inddenty interupted, Whre lg1 .
said, 'ZIcould no lou&amp;rg     s     noble lad, whre-is&amp;  oi= sthe : nt hi M°
inv  equr eonr, with ii entir  r    ae. :ese gige  '"N'  oi e ooti d  i
He pn igai  ore4 nmePnoui       wa{rti"r bad  reaped fr e
as a train , nd assumed =he chief co rmand. V hronathan itt    th
here "rtof e g iven cn 4dsto thedif- ainJerusalem.L"_ h4f"
feren  dies t&amp; tmoveb o     toito t   ,      dshe)o he   e e
province, sothatLysias shall nave toedo sev- Ate  i ohenisdrb tth* the o':i
era! weekslabor ere=h canoncentrate' bi f  ; RNid  te,,.'.i =

t %


ti '.HH. -ai t. air

." Thanth W'x  aiu g'th  ,,aidsn;f the
hoiidlJedIa    ee the"e~
- fhditr $ i o ~  azi tikdhiegos."'

y;9pel todo eo.
n  hpeai 9 sn
r L  osie

' dngeaneeon:wJenathhAu thoref ao  e 1 .1
t ee :h to a dau td  ? i of f *.  , . V
deed her at arZrdh, eid ciqatntd1err at
Aclishaf .toU devote nher toeither ar deat1. ors
~ha ae onlytvengeluimsnlf bn Jonathai.
JBelieve~ineigit ,is vengea ce _which prc mete.
they wicked xfz n  n   -all the , 1e 4. - I'am-
~ori to Jeari h atronath~an d d  o er ie~v
this1 at ,oncew'.            s
"K loble' pri ee, highly -dVIrevere thy
lIi n= and aeseot thy- word, ' s aidJoa
r' but. th istiime the greats t i  in
Bsrael wv   d eeived byaounnlrig ad'hp&amp;,
ritIo., woman ri iter'tRebeooa, . 14e96'4tell
riyleot epilice wh*attheou-knowestab ot'
Reecca ,ouimunicated fadthfullstha ver
same story '*Which  she wrote iihilete 'to
Jonathan, 'aud wh en she waa ddneaJose--Ask
ed much ~agitaed,"Speak, logh r~ of MI~a-
teesYdid-, thou 1iar'that acu~
eibinw e and ethic, ep ak, I4pritlre ; didls
thotinot i r?-{"
"R eeeba was ,'root 1litt1e supds d to
thi. 5t i  .~^ sipee,:and"r' Jsur~f d usthe 'old sttvan
that' terec&amp;ould7 be"   Ri iiiaaIic '-b6ut 'that
Le ii Me  theyletter    fpWh;,
said Jose, "Iu    e  e   ia, lo      it'

m3 igh tohh e  assumed t e :iia 8ie d Iphegiie
tbtde  #ebelbh a  R ithee; but  iphegine4
T heire a *wso miIe firmness '&amp;id mil- e
in the words of Jose that J than caud~
gainsa them~f ,", , wilrescuie her agein, if
shes in ,thie lhlandsuf. our enemies," paid
Joiath n; ":the   th tamyl ioble' prince
halt be ier ; father and protector "
. ' Tl e, tron g armi of Jonathan: needs, 10a
assistance .to' protect his,%bride," said Jose,
.'! ~ bride;?':N\ever! Never!"Jonathan
eli ed, pQ ife i ; "r ,am, a priest ,of the
Lor l,.a. d eji ) not oily susppcte , but,
wada~ptv~
"Trlyl said rJose, coolly, "I forgot the
law, thpe strictness, and seveity of the lawt
and public opinion .in ,this respect. ILet e
tell thee, lhowever,; 44&amp;Pegiewassnspeacted
by az Oal iis#i.only; and: if Aided-the
d(Qg  ev .of' Menelaus twes a'o~ptive rin the.
hand of"t friends of .her nightyf-ather
#hlJ sin positiveo Jphegine ,ca Ydieky her:
own hand,, butshe eould not' live ~dishonor-
e4  ov   .   I anw her she,-is be r~ the.
:r ba efthe vila n'slhand, s'he is,4r b .o d~
stwpi i$i.:jEhe. Jaw: ~ead . ii4 pubhc:
op ionixoften ,tle; sp filed Chufi nveter-
ate pr udices; -b ut Iphegine .lves; her heart,
her ardent love: and firm i vrtues defypr , -
dices anid can' safely laugh at the ior ce.ocf.
tha &amp;ublie Qop'uioa which ie eg ped~ply fo~
the wre4,Let l"1A ~ted and','A vewil.
finvetj tend, eon ince the wQ~rd of heir,
innocence."

ed widow. The-ge A               UAWt
granted me  this gur. ancor
e eK now wrould +he a Ae'teh'cA cpt*
Wheom last, we met, .I xwpt with7i4sW lt
k  urreut ,of it ar gu shed ?I'eIithes
andher toice failed   _        +dQS
Ipheginel:pres ed herto x r oee ai e
soothing andouonsoling words dried' 4+Rr
tea so, and, dheriahed her dropl gsto
wihleerful e# ~poissa; n. ui e-
spondent: and .its; a pea ed ynt hi - wz
support -her d4eclaii. hps1~ii4
zonish ed tbei i tht t tie was xw   or
,an   ain .s oeP 011A"defeated warriors, might -inoppoifytzee
he advised;,-"yheowe oare eIITg&amp;~ell
oared for , :Toipah, ' hiladI~en
a" w e  p r o a e ' d   .- d i r e r e  O ,Pb   ° i  y . .  tF .ltl y   d;nd   f u i e l 1  1 6j '    L  +
proceeded to 1e         e'"I Wx4fs
es~f~ ~r&amp;~wel~$ IThe ~a~t ~ his


EN1 Q Q$~f O y1i~eI1~Je~J               do;i ""-      "py,
'  .*       ti^f       "tt.   ;tymos had this rumor sred             {i
: 0006      i tey    t on th Lroa&amp; Ixeabi  yo!  o~  arti y yo   Ia1Ifnd
r a ~ hib xevries . }r  , e tea? 0n4YQ* P'$e
(b   r t      D ,                   r e~~t~t~ai~  xga i i l~ered  W eiti vely. iJ T bib;fwa
- d       iO ',-b1leefthee, " *   ws he .re altogetheir  new Vte h'  . phg ie~kiu.i
, gon    =r    ht h   lr Rd  :  t  end:; -,Y'our con xdi~t tis; opilalon of {'Ltcibt it~d,
step ,"the peasa      te kd;toSn   Mi.  pah "My heart 'the 'heart of  t'dati hter!tells
. fT                Ami me that my, f ib e r is sielk, .eryfie ~a d I
~~t i~iz ahiour lovayleads." fe..           1 shall see.hi n mo"~
u 'E'In Mi p=hthe,' Lord aof hbo ti=abides,"  truee it i ha  ou'icfahei,*aer
~  h'ei p '  1 t'it iine~e  heathens' }pok    aid"loyosrs igp ist ' iiiI Y "
$ik Id*.oheybity; pf D avid. Bend' your l"th ki   ,.rs x   ii~tr 3ran
-'e~*o ~gh~to J~r    ostheref the enemy his power, and yur ,ri.s.b i iae. .
. a$r u i1 -he hgeoea' efof srael wll fially'' Gersbn ,"I  ,b hor .that 41&amp;6kd, ztib.  Do
niot  0xpos  y ~tself aIn tth3' "~bjf
~~~h'     ee od   mn," aid Amcra, iithts vae r mari,:ho i  ~ tri d  .e
v+ ; b   .e si rnnds;',                      to &amp;satisfy hihsaie   Mtis"
/thy peas.          "N  $e'of o   s hall 0 g$  ttet~
~9t~e      le~E ot   ,l' ofwae  ~d Iph~eni, "go to  M itpah, the  atibts
also date e nd fg, trees. ,Then ha ead andjvictors eairegni utey~l  rtet
- ;M   *''i -a ~osh -3 ;4  oused frebt'h' ieerie fal 'C o ry aTI st ~  to max e ( en~
E'                               abe.e  ie dl'idTk hei ey fther h~s' o a h  ik~bed, th~ee
W4              ,theo .!de a ofJ   thaz   l~ pie. Let: Aspasia, ;A1y16 a i
~t~u~teliuiotef~~phgn to retoka thtir 1 ions "of furies',be 'there th z ,lf
t_ Jern aem. T.he'part ,.h ,d =*rached a rot to  i rozthe ede of my  ok 1fte
~ w~~f~=~ool; pha4* ~of 'sid" whenever O be'' sibik no'ibit an
ped              re       ,:: die. To ,have doe-'our ' duty sign -ifies°'t
~":, ,od       A*eg       bro.h e, fairest  "Allow iie to 40k a word  6iOtoytrz
*  1 g, " '  e1: 4 ale ; .   oa a s re  ytind yr d r fie, td l  nte lip   t niy'se-
ti ,",4 T~ku                    oret to you."'.'             '  t,: i,
*, f,,Q0se 4 r afteryour ifX = e,0,$  u  She did so and When beyond the hearing
Awl,             gem pe athere,'foJ of the oilbez'8ra hi ere ~" ifyo
°aa  v            a4..}n[_  tw4  ";  gIS y Y  " 7  T, Y .d are afraid ,to'tretur rn'  ti'Mizpah  ecue o
rxlw:;.  - yt  b  e pr Y er pro- o  eseyr gilt}to Reaoa,eritis
f,  $h e  4                   1t    I eo 4irectly; " 'r r,°Jo aths ad t .  his
0"             . rs5ndJ, g ' te only p -ina  "1 sy ourfer i' roudls.$'k pB 1
t4 inet r oonpol    '  ii n   rstn        not, goa7  od i.,'[   f .Id
s  , ,  ,.  Y,1  [  q ' l's       M r fe  '" J d   t  uaz'd  ttti  ®  d, wordod "o11 Fk
' rA;gtr, r      bohai7. as   e lCthis.1:.Y 4 S:it toU  meJ' prt!M!-'ithe *bM   id .

.~i~ eeY ' the wife of e4poI    fw.. {Y     h1 ® t t s' l T -9 i"
-  4ifi} 4ra'St" t"th14w "el nt  ; ;z  wp)O ~ 1

j  i
. ,,
i
J


uiAfiY     aeefks    eel
tit bb ds OM r 22 C ation tudOrseI d-
tel  Zli tfrt  it Abhi1ne fil s h
tj  r  {,§e~/4  ilhav  id  t~f~

*h 1ete*IMA  ia  di~e* the  'swd *d
and tookft 6ui~ateuid "
thIfrs   in st :e brth .friWtb s r6oe,1and
' i1  aae°Yell fell eli th iefe  irr i. Lu-
tia clamored -at.. the pit h od- eiiei~b:
"'Tou are °niid,  ru killtha-irmdi i loma
generous en~emy Sen~t t pr     ea the ,

iii:"lf"tihe y   yon in Je' rua  ; 't
Ii~l be.goad  k 46oh f rohe;u:"
vors "of ;Axiri 'spartii dh'e ~inI ~re
fagg'ed oi*'ard Ve J'e usalern
C HAP TER XXXVJ.
Rs, TIPK3 D 1 ISIVE'BATITLE.
"Feat, or treache~y dzhote Ptolemy' to feni-
-cide,' 'said Lysiasto hliat nt _hofad
(assembed a ro+uundm= hbnln acburt il q ofz War.
"Either the ;various ni fdrt zes Of, urar-
my  ;Vin:tiese Y caffipaigns Ii1'd his he' . ";ith
;fea r thM. be, whu n v r5 w s efeated, -might
lose hi , laurels~in t   s enterprise;, .ortVwo s
treachery, the discovery "of which he~dreiid-
the  '61ot. ;hat has beeridone befu' r
" I tell you my Lord, }it  waaneither,"~ said
Sissiptis. -"I  ,Was:,present * vhenh Vedied-
Ihe  rd the lust4'breath t'f his heaving 3bo-
som; I felt they ,last,-struggle.'of a'hisE; ,heart
mait tho". effect, ~  of  ion. The agony of
hisNbody wuby far out-bdlaneedh-k=the sat-
i ',tioim  f ig' sul,. Died .= i  at econ-
= ,i pa'es of h wing done jhis "duty.  W hen
he' sed mc     hm4 rlast he bade me  ,go
*  d t1l the tiny Ihave  beon convineedthat
this ~ ~  ~   ~    Oa i tunutw Icn  t ght .agadnst
n' who deft d a just' eatse.'"o fine iad
id reccsilinend' g his tspisitItot eiM nbr-
xta Yo rle' diedi th a°s ile oi
Since Sobtat sn  in iedsooali446sat-
i fliseftroughy, donviueed f the isty
i e t e     we fes is               u

F'PI Fiitilr

Woe-
''a' {nay fir  ?ah.
i     t  ru  to   ' he 'T ai ;
771"  ri'r  1rf7 TIII '

tifi l headef .           weaut d8QMp1k,   o y(  4g
lain:'  n Thit od ' .o r eveti , x  a  iee iko  ern+ of  1   x  t&amp; 4 l t
y!bss  ig t~at.yyo Fi rhead  Y T . 4$ ' ,  U.V er   ,"  w~e4 WJ$4A*  "4u
'W  tudiybiish                outen 1t
put 1 s  t  tilen  d.  'bu  of -o h~ e be   w .I We~
frio're %,  askd.f°   ?Kie t  tre eth of the euemnyr,~
me"   'L y, :isiu i a ked. r  y  r
' I knwf ot"  sads,  Y, b,  j y m{,     e b  ,- r§, V!. '..
cear an# "ins?"Lyi- a , i ~
~ Yo:k=..no i, oawee neof hs  f"iPMA,4   .
t tmsbno ko iyti  bdd tr hk'  t lL  Oby
te1ise' Mu.}Y  Ias  sdo n  t no  w iA.  '    WB'at' i  s. he"di  imo.6fwi
"m: I t mel{a  ntefil?  wste  'o c1Aandfthowte fragn  o e,  "34
"Noheein  ntr are hisvo, r p aid 1 ' hi" / th   adai  e
att  *intosuh  ate" 'aiS  d Sis tipu,"TsA-  '".$   ii1    n
Ie ~ and noesoldierF,1t*a.c fi  d  ~t   ~       W~h
"uiertn  o re  o,"La a ssI , tort  .,{
, f1 ; latw  "you-'. are u  S Lntyrian ,ni1Aeno   t s&amp;e ,  i' i E dri ~ O11
sai T  hhe ies faher s f. otuelne an  'b,' uppse it.Th n rnis  o 'd 3


IW           ~TiiRr Frwor
to , f               ' to 4 4 w&amp;  fnwo nibd
tt4:,to °;y  le   th* Let a evzyn  r b ire.  reay  ft t  o~w
oursntb~rsn in."  uess
4:      l  aoalruleoaM~i&amp; . M,   h i{lla tri~
AJ~   ~    b~it        m u  ommnder ofTheSamarita arc  y~
in ~1 gonh}*n "  -i r s, o  a s&amp; t.f s  .nn~tM
Sic ,,    o +r bbi  at  ""o  a m ever s  ntoMmvd  nh ,s'
als teb r  ,p 1e  P, "ptha 7"ii _  ~lais  iethn ig  1td
00 A"'n3,   t t ipa 0  px~zn ,  L  A p-Aii 'I +  i  r   of' esco as r in t7 ior.v ' w iJp'  t
b(uh  aent o  reqierty ° .Pt&amp;er  h   r e  "  "h w~icw
x., 4an aretu 9  .     ohe, eei~j rf .ratS OilEu -
Li, ~ t  i  , e,,urca~ry , hogh tatweopresonustIiiss'or-
Otn  ik ~rrn w u Ju4~e  lhkpwr~4r
a       ai o fv " th emoiWe -a b' d en l.are t er ofw'r i I ift wil outer
1_ , t 1   ks  nd o r p'4pes.a T: , ,miht i,  MtherT,  n dob kedinkco iBObthd
4wwn byI myt aitcl. -mco r o t  .l d~ewlb&amp;
,  ; i1 o  the  fra r I f  "s apj (l.t44 t retem   eibl.~n rtht , +yf '  / 1-(

- TWO  '  &amp;*Al 1  h.,

tax~c dt in o'oue aidibot
the forthcoming battles ,
stu  .hv Jhda-Fi ion    id
hmte, t'iku  c   rhi  g or f ekif
DW, ois if     iii
~~~ *p or-aim ot 11f, ], nybrtad
hvl et,.tsaih4Pdthe 'fir{24~h
Efjd 1tth' e  4$w.f  g  t all ntI i  A4
"Wou l d  to  God 1 ,A  h  i t  ., no'l '"  _:   ! :" ; J +i°

"No2 'it is the th _    1~
..:m~ yiiw9.S dat !t L  Y$  iJ :  .hI  A.A43UiUL

iec~nd wbheido

'uju 1 at us tu  iE  hrtuel    h" *#
JOur latd4vihtmn,6*w1i
klb   irw
lha~~~tOr fk4J1k~k

I                     ~

i,

11,


~ twas the e r"'*
!  '  .f       ,a tew w4ji
*e~~~fib wepereato
brw 'hcl ; mws$d ie ee
!5baO  : a .bpgs .il~tetsaz ogh
wp~    ~.e st.~4 tpIhi
8  r dA by$  oed  ih
allte   i hs  '  odwf
~eW~r~1e I4~ pipe th
0MAtP.g%)iu~ates--
Pat*.th
,    wne4 %r-da w

S  lQ  , T91-4ay" vet ght ft " OTIrGWr.
;1oMDup o. yo ,-, onward teto ltJat "
W:ping, e lionbannrieproed and
Ee t(ithus~a tic Vband aftr i mui14rlethe.
warbling sound r of:,thoocorne s 'nd' thrum-
e i; drinedtocsionni~y1)by thIasongs 'of
the ILevltes .ands the' . rlike ihoute of the
~ilitnd*e. O ird they proc ded toward
Jetheur where the headquarters =o t te no
*y weire. kI vnkeaohed . the iisioaoste
Bethetitthey ler'eoliedathatt the 'r$yn1lns
f*rau d  ith .plhxR  na ij   ohmsf
:From ' itaioe 't'  atbe riiu stn hed its
t i °  tfiems, threy looked - like 'one °ne
tale- firor "Interseoted onl rby thaglitter,.
ing towers upon the Elephants. This vi~*
of ;the larges$and hest.equipp  r  -mythe
paiceehee4hk1the         prog +s§ hex
40A   we.,    u~h obei ~    ti  ~rs
~dpowrtuly:'Tr~i~~yso , hpair y of
A"   a~us lo  ;e4/ich tie= ang aemote in
*m ae the enemy. ,:t at 8elf j an e i l n-
ze wth N ii  ?g sword,'And p Q nied to
smite, our enemy Onward, o battle and
victo! ' I
" he, angel of 16 ~Izliah whpsemotean-
Ie1  apeau'ed }to'. mn,. ta dpr om se  to
smite, our .euemy" :one told the x.:  r tih erand
is ,p _few zmoment every warrior, kn~jw't,
vjeseats l

,T    , i s       y
P  -1

'' I

a'

e i~e 'r eiubli jg clidre i k e    t ihat th4ter ohrs     rt  ei
inma  tun leidd b  a  a teele ld fa heri,
ladke'darco *  iipziih  mii t i g 'iiM,,
and l ifing ~pins tirenblin ; bid= o heavy
pip hak1bs- i G,,6d magy  T   loebn
nd   e clahied k inspir~ed' with  coinfidehr
" God' wi ,i prbteet- the sliders of Zli~n, tW
champioi s of ji tice end r edo iI!"  i+d"the
old' wonian 4"', Miriamn, the' heroiI wife' of
*'THE LAST C6114 PES"S"N
The  silence 6 'the grave'ad re giued "n the
vast and ma iide it' alace of' the ilgli prie t
of  Jeris~aleni. N'ok~e' swke" louder' than a
whipe  or walk+ d otherwise ' than t'oni his
ti~ Toes:' The servants when by ihenisekes-
cur sed the surly and  wayward oldx. . who
would  il1ow none tosmile and would 'stop
the birds' music if the' couldd' 'oft tmerry
Yense echoed' in the zpalace, not a smile°'was
vi il e of'any 'eonteh anee ±abut  the' vast
mins"lo t oy aiid lsholy waM the
aspect of the -'luxuiriant aboe  w  tent
mnerou-A aines o la ips on jdolden'r .andle=.
Ricks did not relieve 'the heavy gloom" trim~
u  room .     " t  furnishedige Yfiud
Menelaus. 'Fv y hair of"h is head 'anrdbeeuri
had" turned grey.' His  eyes w~er'e &amp;hi' and
niumerous wei e  th'e fturrows ,one his' oou Ate-
I $ ne.' i 'hd 'waxed old, x hoary .and oe~
ble. _ A:.A thousand 4 tiiies hef'" epeatedi 'the
wordsiof Auan     '~
:''dher e weepin, ,pp'eheo aion,
U) dir. We r s IaUcoi
Este I~t 2 dtio   y      t

I'n&amp;FMasT p                                      E9t,.

iess  prodlgy.'Y'{F~ L' rt  tA# rA {  ^  . r T4 1
i S ipus -:at so'x°nmuch sur
s    fdapper  o e  io 1  ibe  lm'sn 4  ,
the astonisjh6dS W$kjni~2 =AI- 4,
rev'efe~ ~~~~I a"~ d~.~ ~sae'40MM
pt},wh .sek y' e  iht
andr   }iKe 4lgom         l


i  eh  sbu4 before ,he, could finish, M  n p   1  "   '    e ' rlrR(  cJ°
~~ ~~ dotalti-re.. Menel;auschngd his  9f o
~~~ c~q~e         rem iohap s ha d er , p~1ns  a
k    , ~,  1   ~njupA  doalskatreto Meneau hanged hdolr-
th#C   SOofths vsi.  isspis~ t  ceisrmone pd i    lwt we  nsyha
~ of glq4Ms , ho0M4W;
r#*R ~iR~a48sipusoy U~ 1  " hour, " Qf 3:"t ,Ss
4A     this  i i  Rse~dt~i  Aanifz ~ee  tkt~~haotie~
vetshall preve x     {x nt 'm,  athe'aek'oxen
s.i8xi4A~eie     Q4i Iphegin ie  e   huriecL ow ~itt.  u4 . a" e1ding
child!"     th!e d 1itsgrthm  jthe
a        roej4$a ~

~1'
,,,pre              "I  A        4
to,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~9 herwa1yssoef~  i~,pf~~p~, ohs
9p4~ok?             _qo a'~)s ~ho P
t, hearlwhatsras ghen,h~' 1 pff', bf , ' gc vet ~a  1j~
~h~l~aawW1~ih~~ tpnasiPru d  .g-1  ,
the nam  ofi helaw o f yr a  n 4 eh ltoft   6a dine idug g hi4s
she ottm ded to separately heiti  e rt~  hyx x H3 t7 a e  u"e:tihh.eh$t
,'  ' tppease"     fd Pthpr a g ,"'a.  i o ': po  e1eiiLein it.  "i ;s
N
bloodiy"4den h s ee, helpless r"asttxph   anoi=ted ghpg  he
and x timrn; none18hold  espalae  «~~~   e~n  o ~ ~ i
i rrtiy p lfri " "   io" thn the r trx #f  waa  °axI
feebleold ,' saWennaid ngsu
thinks : } iea o vhfanld aeih  " A pasia"  eey 44
her- i 'e boils  = #ic the : r  gedederwx ., n


~tah" P* T ' F
, i j°tise eg S!aiD.  Are ow you  r '  t _
r  4  T ii  4  V i1A Ii'  h e 4
~tl~u~, K-T~~W~~dRdid~6tif lft 'th

AL, it0 $Moerv *   0  A A~1t 
te l t e 
11  4'" A4O  II4 e"
1 001,  hiou t-, *  wth o

it d 't h4'k  i   bid you Iib  t  irer.
request youtIM fei~6    av~
k~iktg  r~~4h'au~d~shal1i ul  lain
with, tre nblirT1 I  .  "' c ur kd%,  1*ta6
o~ihSsles iiiki~frtiW  a t  ernor,
o Te i~a i ixi c6~ei'edivith brobdti d dust
ted  * tgs    ! "  fa  A. %' e   =:
, ?,f; ,  i s an athSy2rl4ne *trede eaten in.
rebels arer  f TO . of th: at l  &amp;
1:c'b he endi  ng1A~Ih ioof t&amp;4znnt
a pr ahe  1hgib. *ipe4     to he
rears f   x dead father~   hT
'~ie  yrian V  e orrabte"p
p e  8a~eoj the worst ' di'ithei #t  o'
qh r8 wi{ 1 di   o  hir ege re: '-o
± 4e-#er iblel wood s of .'y de  F~u~
speedily be fulflled. Iphegine, daughter
°Melhwitso caiie  t i bI   + W ith
tbOrd l~yord3tyFAjt4 I    it;01
dtA.9)are ef  ; "l-f :the j be  .4   o z
die within three days as th4g, w4  an4
r ien  O '  y our : oste.The  a  "f4 laay
~.these men  Iltve those old :mmesa 4he
"Of fdien TOO id A t&amp;be ,  e y , s   Ch "Avl
ag 5sthe ene1fy, rs say lep  o  ,pjt p

Tij M*4IAA~s.


ri 6d 'ofb idhyeit N6 Iif e40fW fde
t  ti t tby piracy-poison--yes, this is the igflpg
jeii  'i danipimy  t    ddis  e4dini ti igh-.
SsIfruithpi#iad dri Atyis byikei
Mi* ty~ mistakee Amram mistd ie"f itf,4 ite
mnnds, kfagib    ob d4-a     iMvng
ibi~ fo i:  mind "Ob  6jsiftt&amp;,"add ifi6it
S   t oAfohs is ea oM"e thebme  r   ie 1is
WA~fbs is lg- i/~hi,!ydntithEeigli
d  6 iton- A1 iif" ' u  n d  a

"V:''

tiasO kig indondtable :temPs of An4~tien  age$gtgdistenqe fo m. lge
chui and Lysias who, needing a j  nyrteil*f&amp;igfriie, t           bjpp
ha a      oblig4 to ,#tre t -# -ughater- lionized by the shouting dt1
-ritdrM pp alatad tyoia sn             :" bittem  VA.,, waxshieJa              . '%grg f
M       a ebe bgttLe ayd abeut twe le t oethe   .cep RTSpykas  t .q1 distinti p.
sads  u;i     'eptat oni    a o u r,  Jonathan sat alone in his roOm po:ndadig.
then arnreses animaentsr,        r    over                        x      _ne r adventure, lepaabipwa
si le     sunitions-ecap whih he had a     'eainto. hislresence " aIa wthl"
baght, .     e.1ad we free; the people dwel ' aidionathan,.hastily,; tho  o
whmtosell into perpetual servitude he had of those who went with Amraafroana
ccme reiged Indepen4ent instead, of the in  mmon to' Jerusaen  ' How  ewe et
tyram eial king and his soulless tools.-- touither?"
Tie, fate were k own to e3ery child in    lithe governor of Jerusslm yieldingt
the country, and the joy it egused wes im the prayers of the wife of Apollophades'
mde                                     said theman, dismissed usin peace. The
In Betheur, where formerly the .hea- wounded were placed under her :care ant
quarters afaLysias'was, we Aind Judahand Amram is among the wounded.". :  ;
JonathanbuilW 'engaged in fortifying that brief conversation Jonathan elicited of the
place against the Iduneans who might rise xHan all thetinformation he was epal of,
again in favor of the Syrians; while Signon giving. But that was very little4 andJen
aiA 3ohn 'onducted the-pursuit of the te- than apparently knew mpre of hle fated
treating army of Lysias. Judah Maccabee; those in Jerusalem than th ,aauAd4tThe
w'6n valor, patriotism  I'd prudence were conversation was interrupted brednessen~
lauded b'f a milion of tongues in proseand ger who called Jonathan to. a ¢ounoil
poetiiti words and music, by any  nd ev wart
ed  e oistratin of an insFired and grate- Jonathan on entering'.the apartments 90
ftil    ople=-felt unstf, intie midst of his Judah was weloomed by the latter with an:
asii 'fordhe wa s AOZ used to the ten thou  nspeakable itriumphiin 'his countenan4e.'-
s'   Oplipnenlts and congratulations now "Now I am certain .that the Syrianaan
heebowedon im. Ten thousandinow came driven from  this country," saidJudah ,  iefo:
in th e sin of the hero tQocatch aglirnipse Lysias offers terms of peace. .ereos4t0
off  m tough'his garment, oahear a word better '
spokenby him. 'the enthusias i'had seie&amp;  Jonathan took theletter andre   'Lye
up   4.thp.rt, distinction ofWsetor age,' as,.iii glorious  ajesty thei king f e,
an d:,udg was obigeto stand this ptormy Syria' appointed .egent gree ingtodJaddg;
cgrreMt of c  huss  which for several1j.eeabee and the-people of Judi; suhoJ
dypi      e ccssion Aloded toward  him- Lebanon: Your misfortunes touched u_.
e bee     eds calm, dignified and self- bear4 and moved mystto 4exmise4aton.
satisfied as any sucesau D fiereoanus  enough 'of'blood has beenehed4 llge   'A
h   .ftlags  in hemu t lo    o,ad by  eign nowana hencefortkh..i:Iliterl3ede
nQ90aerglue the cnoetration by th; for you with our most lrianQMgAnegpi
expressiOn of his real feelings, which werebantr  gldepgs       orAg y; by
hypy    u3eh atravag   esp  -gepud Manippheggapplit°      pnad
not imagine hp had d ze po '   itel    e 9!rumoqgleue p      ayhL
4  pyhepariot diho left bis        fed~~ggip
and isked his life: ouhe battle e  4     9    ofa'kpjdia  I s
p b     e fpp     p oncee nd ypstgo ieusW
t   ~ ~sstit     of popul~   n ueu        he    4   9   r M$ % 4h
ie/M       iso  nt ghe    ge   Pge' poeesd to ApI~
'* 22 -nuewihketh            nni~dt


4 1  Mf T '  4m t
'pIh a  ~l ';e 41Id$lah

J         row4tJrezz       t4 (+o
4   ov't*tquita ell, still Ifrrt  je~
pared to "take Jerusaeme," said J~at
"   4    e1o   i .ctinel aU be~ap re4~the
pl eted .the .wbrdsh of J .at a"4   nd your
'4 Tfi :ynthey relva rdjL claim - 1i : allthe
e caie°d fi ve6tiyfr en hwe olikq u zeds
'FIozM, 'Jpheginh, Auirain, by,- _tiae living
God ~ of'nnir , i. otn e. +Ye ienoceW eb4.i1
d'enj~  i rmlesst ith atka ifud  Oters,yo0
redeemer approaches. Zion, Morib, holy
aIty vf the' Eprophse t~de ig t oe, myfQed4
Y,'ebre vweca =foll o w ?Jonnin  lies
sho   e ~'cf  takiir-, Jei san,: e  nt
"Gfierson, my son," said-- Aniram;wiJ
tkhathbi hen  ath sa.,{ kno t qj'.
a1  a   i  yq b .th 4l  p Jpeitr thy; word
tlf'iii am ie  reler  thy ~ . lte:..t f
y    l "Vi~ti4"  se ')efo' re U Gbd'do  I p  ie,

1 ht    l '       °Ga ,°.y:' ' s¢sjj,'A  is what ° sea.?' 0rson
hs d tr  g f f i l n e   '   sth h   ,,b . ;y } ,e d .I
nd t i tst° d 111io ~a  .    aiothe' -
Meakihle 'the guards 6f1 A0pasia; von=4
:all; c sa ei*i~~d tied eGe is ;ha ids p  '
"Take away the Satanic boy," she oilied,'
and";Geraow rwas ,led; ;way , '
'~et. thi : boy, this faithful by A
at my -Ied de," A cra a 'Aroq a ee vjy"
,claimed,:,he :mue ;pay., for, . s niur  ops
'~ie.t  oy..r  F i;with. me UI

ill bIUoy   tfi y' wth me!'" .PI77
I ""TIObndiet,Ai i  V  h n""l
"V '  nAm

;, ~i".see ried,. '"where' is my childYM X
Lek 4s*     obhe . e,,'4het aji t= 'Th  thee here that
boyv; g vewie thebay f"    ;.h . ';;r  "L    4i
Sth ornet' of. the' p triat scitided :e._
~~tly   o   s de ;of the ditthat every.  F   !Ae
:t tb.'eity~i~  hLe khetrd thei- Tphegine," sh
PA ka nrou' sedhn edf. fr omw'hieouh iiid C~1p J 4  pI
stared aghast. *"They  come to-deier God Ys j"Ad ere
'sdty from h hai 4s.offtheenemyr. x.    , jZli, ~~Pj,
'4F"spsia'lell :upon:,'her knees :before bAni ju1,  fu ous
rangy and; with her -hands",lifted up he px'ay~ Iqt, 41 fj
;rd     a~g'ive '~  my ehild , that; God 9U h i gha
have rawcy ,oP you !".                 pot.desp iri n
"as$ eme ,notI"y; Co , ':he said:'. f  numnc t dt r
"Give me gay cild, 'rhe cztit  cpray  w t iginktJe
i g, Jto4  rania p wAie  = n r t'oi  .a eard, iniLiAuc
Agpi     . hed #,Qqr. op id: ri o  eryaufitcome yet , in-41
P. ?ezi "I {succeeded      r, si .he, 4 she called  ebci
, wts  lyi v . ~1we t  soby, but  ave   ers

t  ya   ; c l ii  yi,, a  up his  oi eb
an41   Qclvy d  ,his  le, c u qtuce 'iith1.k18s
,Qmy ?  y.  InfliI  ,i;pure the lovpers
held each otlier closelyembr~a ed,  ' 4 a
w f4eeoa p4 their v* .  eg  # P poke.
l4 pia    tigone.-,:nd  ra  {  r
claimed, Iforgive her!ahehha'gfren; meide3 h
4 gin     se ~4r Am0nn' id let fnvow
~~thtk f- '4~'

live or ~11&amp;  it~i th' ~  d~
'shal again4ri a min'i f r gyq
A's 'la~"YsW

IL .  k1

at w Ihai

I


' ~ be, oastjn  her gae on U6i ob-
'srwi t ,e PresenOe of  spasia. She ro$e,
antovaronting Aspasia, she eadin  comn-
mia dgtone, "Away, erribe woman, de-
e   i the. oly spot  here yonder great
umngrests innth;embrae of ;death. Away,
I say, your presence is not wanted.";
I forgive you," said Asbauia; "for i
misery aln'oitreme happiness thepassions
Rye eiltedAbeond the control'ofr ason{,or.
g odinanerserInust be here Iphegine;
S he  oeno andAloyimos sendomeniandyou
are kindly requested to listen to wat I have
r , "'  o . '
~E iidlo ybn kuodrf Mkiy ea eisv"4

.
,

Top, t~43hS

rtg ih      . 4 He 4 6bd       for
T'fri7 hae:edha ainhe ergen shi :.g:
she replied.  '               ? .
'iBewa)  e t fthe poi ongus afrm #Yaid
Aspasia.-= You'ktow .amin Ggrs  riend;
but by order of the government ends the high-
priest whocommniserate you, I:mustaddress
kind'words to you." '
"Angel's message itself becdmes terrible
laughter of hell :in her mouth," said 'phe-
gine.'IknowSher:"
"You know yourlife is forfeited to she
laws of the land," said Aspasia -
Iphegine interrupted her, "Bdt'° u side
the votnoteof patriots resound." a
"Poor child, these ornets'will sst 6er-
thro* tb'' walls of our Jerieho,"' iaId' As-
pasia. "'Yo 4will pay for youtubborihess
with your life, ere y'nder patriotiecn  ove
'one stone fromour Walls. 'But'the governor
and the highpriet 'sent ie'to infdr jyi of
their special grace, if you in due .t#e  ll
listen to better 'a4vise. t'Alcydei6  is high
pestt in Israel, 'so t' king'iiff it,' °,nd
your father dead. Al   d is'0 the, , en,
is of Jerusalem, aU the 'beautiful  $n
love' hin  Ai you, indeed, are  e of the
m ost beautiful. A.leymos is riot, .we ti,'
i fluenti l atrid has the li ssne$napzi . to
love you; I 'knownot why. Tu     Y 1 r,
heart to 'Alcymos and  ou are free, riheb,
mighty aed beloved. 'You sle liidhlie
this now in the pess6be of the 'rabele
hs a is my mesage, so the gover  z ud the
highpriest will it."   '     .'..
a the jrsence off this ,uigfa'blet dad
I'deolate solemhly," she=sid deteMihrte-r
ly, "that I will rather die tentiest, ider
any' tortures youbiann hu't, Ath ^   p he
*if O o '&amp;c.os. 06, tell him n'y  n  r-
able determination." '
"I am sorry'that I can not obligeyo in-
mediately;"_'Aspasiassaid,:seornfhnygl r
in this caseS'I have te tell you afew orre
voids.e In another ,romrofFtihgfglace
there are threeeedoun dewso&amp;Ighlino
theyare Ileboy ersong~u    the$:ar-
itan, and 1Rebecca the eis&amp;t~ t ilylJ
"Not instantly;e herefter," aieti

*414 #,hdd~okemlet495A4
silidoo ethe goyanor4Ud th ihbrhdt'
4iaxset aaagiafds,'sddkedi&amp;
"e thenek eQr ing dawn' . h     ,e
nad~htiekebierosesoaped'ta  lipaei
tphghed ;hesbueied her onteinse:ix
her d.ni' andthenfille with abhurtence,'
sheeried, "Only asdich a womata:cat bring
suphsa.=message;. such i woman  only can
suppose another of her seecould marry 4
man who is capable oftperpetrating SuchI
shocking crimes.-No no, no, what do I
'es?   tis not, it can 'not be tr e.,'Satan
hinself:acould not invent it. She isanot in
Jerusalem.' None thinks of perpetrating.
thethreefold crime. 'Go,'shanefulwomnan,,
I can not believe your lies.".'
" Ipity your poor woman, wrotehed and
'ha less creature," said Aspasia; "therefore
I take no offence at your rude words.y- "It
is true, however, all literallytrue, whatever
I told you.' Tou 'must decide now, ere I
leave this room."    '
"Now   I understand the -hellish plan,"
said. liphegine. "Vengeance'-prompts Al-
cymos to destroy me and the sisterof Jong-
than; but' le is a highpriest, he dart'not
-omit ninmurderv{Theefore"I  ust fall vice
ti of hi sreengefl' wickedness and 'must
is wife and 'Rebeboa   d; now I sunder-
etatd the scheme, will return disgraced to
he brother,?or bethe second wiferof Aley
ais. ' idersiand and abhor youy ,nalof
Meanwhile 'a'dark .night had sreadover
theity.   1ahty tuadrtornrolloeVOr
the mountainss and 'a copious'Shower "fell,
4riven:yr a terrible stormefrom the west.,..
Throgl thilthunder 'and the rain-the cor-
nesif the patriots were heard distinotly
romdflrferektdistances and opposite points,
"Foolish combinations!   saiAspsai.
to JiY essvgm   teeenausted.
h           p gte oo',othree fiere men
4. red    fot ,pithyaseonrtheirtkould
4]aek'attheght  Ap&amp; h         4

r

w       ,.   .
; ,   f '. ;: '   n  T  "S E#,

~~Qii              i _n ths41..  ~~a
of' hi1-i-l     e
can not,'l phegie oried '
en, sakvohelp s e thinnoae04r
" Poison poison! poison!" s't  '4iu
the shrieks of'fdespais all over thet*s~al-
ace,allthe inmates of whilt wori;i n ."
into a state ofalarm, and thewomenisazy
crying; '"poisoon!- poison !  OisGnt" e
through the deserted halls.
"Too soon?"-A.paaia ex0Iaime&amp;" nd
rushed :ut of the room, tl guards'folw-
ed her. 'Iphegine and Leoi a'&amp;l  ''ed64o
the tooni fro-whenee thetiei' om;it
was A$n'am   re tom.Raeeo 'a de t
both laying in the arms of Amrt elrug~Ied
in the agony of unnatural delth.    i
SissiPus, and then Iphegine and ELid eeme
into the room where the tetrible sig to-
seated itself to their, gaze.4+' "'I o#ditee
foreer," said Rebecca witha }hild6d ice,
and her bursting eyes still eta  bI lining
'Am am.' tesoen   oaidbea ly-,rbi    -
trieted dith'  ram s,'slung to!A.1%:it6
on beholding iphegine, andtiudi + ,et
u to them.' Lucia 'lifted him ugid@Mld
him on a couch. Ize gave    rthe     l
while saying) 1die,'gee the Mtier t+15c-
;athan."  Am'an 'heard   r$    erd   s.
" Does he ie" lie-haked,tilittg bi  t
'his last strength.  Wo;eh i 4ei ± ' he
,groaned, "she is de dy Deu l   A;
"t' e dies,"  euia :sai  1p inn" _ k
'ebecs froma hiis  s'he      uld    "
her no longer. -'Then he rose dike; $ r
from the grave. :r2oie  o            ng
eyeopno eildnd  r       s      °
sia. "That is her    r wl6'ibo ft#hr
hubol d;"!he said.    t
hold 1 under   ' fhd        h w


ib  gghegasw   adgaadie~        noghe unhapyenlis    e   s $4#e4   he
* e  cl.da(ps#       da4   teit   iep4 way to the terriblessho,}fdat0do
ed         ~g es ~rgvged wriidlyc~iikeguimthie?  the,;giver 'orbe 2d e
ti      ,1sleh gzIdes  t teeh, sodo door was hastily dpenad. Here is Abe
ati l ath ,entdben she ei d the daggers dogs, nelit,'to e, eriedeontside K  .Ji her!I
p   gr tl.e intoo he own  ea4, end.1iitjberprdomrad'es," ,voide hounded
S Idtg     -mt e in adnggOadnfes she odTtss'his voice, Alasight nulerfrthe uni-
felegdig and dun on h   ddad body; of vrs'et'Iphegine cried #,an4dat'this instantS
W9f :t",u,          ;i        the patriots-fromall sides rushed into!the pal-
i1#M ropbrkof the confusion in the palace ace and pressed the governor and his s .itda-
aike gighprid.tyreaehed ;the;governor,. an otbenarrowrooa   '     ' -
b havnggvnte the necessary orders came      Death to the enemies of Israel," 'was
*~the Ildede and in congpahyof Alcynos who the dry of thestorming patriots, and in afew.
notwithstanding-his ,Wounds, 'had left this moments ;not fighting man toodrerect in
999ot e   uircr after the terrible occurren- theapalace.
r   ree atM reesprtadehim.Thy entered     "Who. artlth u; unhappy man?", Jona-
,eIerg e   on the four corpseslaid. .' We than asked- the. governor4. upon Whom ie
u4    4e dtM 4ghter of.Menel usi"thegover- knelt with a drawn sword in-his hand.
40e,0 atte4 to save her; bute sheis    I was the governor of Jerusalem,,now
S     , lA   er, "get  _r out f the palace I am thycaptive," was theanswer.
.   dr rAthltl                       'Thou haste shown mery to my men,
3;m ia ndi Sissipuis simultaneously inter- thou shalt not die," said Jonathan.
fred &amp;  "Whyj my    graious ,ord, why     "Here is Alcymos," one cried, ' that cat
shoul4dshe die ? She, has done no harm  i is not dead yet."
"   ehs," the governor'repliedangrily.  ' Alcymos?" Jonathan exclaimed, and
",new  tdien, chanberain of the; king, phegine,'j he added. -"UAloymsand phe-
nd .ife  f Apolphanes, this. horrid Wo- gine-Now the nise in the ,ity increased
spn age4 the poisonwith therink which rapidly. A tumultuous uproar had sesed
di tended fotrhis Jlordshipthe hi    pyh riest               ar;ha ,a  d
end         .Io ,hip thehighpriest upon;,all quarters -thereof; tie qorbatwas
aecygs:Dut thiswagsuspected and the inside andnot outside the city. No orders
,'hikas.giver to the captives, and they came,    e           r    onward
dedn R$ ho kM~dAspaiaN       es    e $epatriots  -stormed owadyim-
,     etwl  e    d he A, spaMfxdtShe?   pet ious and irresistible fury  The dead
~  erself1shemined the poison and the' wounded increased fe rf9lhy  Now
tiltg' water " ludia eidlai aed.                                      y.No
di"teay     u glia eglated    o     the gates opened, and the host of. thelpat-
yoi e the        'si of  elil. woman, riots like the waterI'that broke through its
ou nso are im"tnyof her guilt;' te digov- dam stormed inand swept eerythingg qfgre
9_o     . ~ p m d;.e w h ew rac  uao- them. Resistance, was'impossilde, the Syr-
D,,,rh  . .   ian .soldiers as many as;;could.eseape did so,
pu         g          a        he rest ho feE not intofthe :an(s of the
m    eg  enaino n   talln atriots, fled ito:the fort-of Antideand
aewannd. 3,obaricadedits gates' This fort eould not be
-, , lf!f    taken easily.   1
8d1 np "Y e.aJ;   s an assassin and a tr i= 'The."ons'tfthe servants of Soloohad
tO the agvan"Ig hu deed. know, opened their secret passage to'the potpf
y ;      e4haatmatfiternd of Ptole- Jonsthan,gas they had 4     Qaefrs!efpt, ,Ror
$M*tip 9er    foeh  trasebry.g You :several daysasndonightse the mnonMuvi ws
a be bhtray or be: the. king.. :kep4 tip by$4 pat~riotal aroud Aieeiy,
b          liiwththeir.:So Lygigopi ta  eto a  htit n gl~p te ggwrsejgall
4s1ykere##d             the ~lg   em4~~g    m qer.  vQ4      y
r              $$9g~             thiteatened an k        adenfr

T   'e  N     A   agiirfs.r                    ,I    s
and bie bed heit wh    tt  t    nomJonr 4,dedd 1 iso     e n
with kaehban          h 4 taes       he 4ns4o$  t  pet                  4
we- though tbes seeret'a  e, ,tg F edw''y eto,t'g'ien
pmiei pai     otdefe : al instwithut leagues and myself doe,
meeting anyresistaneedaongpede the  ese  id 'e:., d-      ily  epuin ,i
for the:large 'ar'y4MWhenhoe 1n4g lathers with all the honors de4h        #
dawned the patriots were masters!o  Phemains of1s!'aehh gJ
Cityv MountaZin and ;thgempe,, and4he lyiiauedorders that itpu         e
rempinngeye    enelhesei ed inIt for 'Jonathan'w a4tear    fre  h+5:   a
of Antioch. While ,tiq  altitude shoueg  " Thank Qod, i geedno orspa t'  p
wit .ethisasm   e1y wept bout the deso- of a1man who once was my pateg   jnl
lationof io, here the/grass graw in the whom I honored and loved moret;1}g1k
streets, and the desecration of  o's, temple other mortal 'being. May 0o4 to gW~vhim
whereidol and altars of all kinds desecrate as we do.-And what has bp oiof a 1M0.
ed te holy spot. While -th mltiude,
joiced,..dah. and Jonsthar lamented the                             e S  ftands alne and fo  n i
loss of theirdbeloved sister   Ibn4  phege orld1  said Jose. "the waits  r
sat again alpe by the remains ofher fath- conso her "
er andamournedt" "4I can not, I dare not sdeher i"                        oa
P  E R   X  X X1Xweek and            veher toefer ynt y tQvev:F ,e;
Tun     oRE toNIIAAT1a."      into her presencewit-;          nom   e
The city of Jeusalem  rapidly filled with of her,.vepprgble prince, she is acure 'rromn
pyeo le fniom iil pits of, the surrounding dage  I have ne  y duty. - I
coutriy ''ho'uands of pilgrims arrived'to console her.
kiss gainite    e 'sil of M riAh. The        ou,      have    de
deserted palace againreceived their former you must console lr,  said  o e.'
iYiha  1ts and th~1lanes soon asunied the can ngt abandon her yob huves  drtd  r e
a ih'ea ance 6a   oudiuts  y' Judah and from irtamin death."
the other captains of.'the hostsissded aipro-  " Venerable prince, my bih i'fathert
clttiation xin which  initrsal ' amnenty' wasdnathian r~ ied,. ochermeiitl .f du ki'w
gated ,: id} 'full pardbn tto'all' who wouid not'the suiferings of my heart. I love' ler
return to the  standards of Israel:  bus ndy.aliot  o        r
the old'inhabitants of the city by the'th- bility of hier infidelity is a to ep d*pfwd
sands retuired'to'th'eir habitatioiin.  ''  and you know her own confeasiohi Mz h
'JonathaE and Nib} elect' comrades took toi'y lamiented siste . Eh is s d e $
possession 'of t e temple of Vens .wi ip irifti aind as ir c'itt itynd
wefit met with Aspasia. IHi h ,}at ;priest of lie' Lard I-Pke thi lory'tI
withl'Jdse be~afoirrandaremted'er tng fae, this'proud' etis aiotiiowdl indie
fat&amp;e  f hi sister Anrampand' erson-.-tlhundred dedly affrays!" ale  i 6or;
i hidciabat "has costiany' ;dea sacri ;this wealth, take all I have, 'a n +
fle, 1W nori de are tony hearthan Er      'neuncn iphe ine withhrxe,
beoes~ Pkida .onathan  "e     inietenther attachment, as Iinagineddh'in n6
Rebeoch  She fdil1 vici toher ownlo:} day s of im happiness aiid Iwilldiallu
fsele ain pr dessioun.ase d the ho iie.  Vwilbl'ievere'ydu as my nob st befabem(
Jdnatti +doked theoggh sh   'c jndwd and But invain, she islostfor ie;"  id  o
beleldeatig$ tdtate netrc. aoesion.  Water a pause of considerable leni.7
"Whom       tie thus1ibhebr  Jdnaitha  roshiandhayingr walked theniooad
aske4    - .Thi d    y- dT             timesap an44own hes,it s'"

f i

I-


.   i Y he    Mdt rihf
cdri %, i sed ,yJose',re=
. fathedisin4he ago;
t o f it okenlie rt; andshe
c ,told  her, that you suspect
She is miserable beyond

'.41ftd Ahe denies her guilt?" Jonathan
a*  d~Ati
T±o1 But she, conscious of her innocence
i'4h1     f rings on your account, weeps
oaK Ile*eikhiess of Jonathan, that hi for
a in    nt' only could doubt her'sin ere-
no more of her, mj beloyeds
p on tian cied, passionately. "Tor-
t r i x in doer, atn but a human being."
will not go'to ses he"r'Jose
a  s   id,°wly. T'youthave a thousand tines
e1 me  a   a  eu. gnd death without {ear,'
pow the ero,, onathan, fears the looks
o aoige    fergs the tears of a mortified,,
breaking heart? ,Fear not, go, cons oe h.r
1goto seo4leymos- .
aywe ent:uand left Jonathan alone
w ;4isexcitefpassious to struggle between
Jp,lquxsgapd bonor.. It was a struggle
wpyfrd 9      nt4,anly heart. "She isi
e  '1 eyon4 description!" he ingdvertnt-
lieg4    gd, several timee; alLthis senti-
.  y ympath$and love wgerouseto
Wence stiblie could cope to co conclu
- 1hoe No d of Aleymos and the letter
bhe a stood specterlike between him
uati in mourning wishes to.,sere
" 'pa  he . spnainel.
.her"enter, hesaid. "Ife s lost
sbn     d   f ther'r/ brotheron:thieheld
o " bttile I' wii console her.  Le, her
A09~es .i   '' rnpu n    i,

I5

rj ea osaacedaut. r:f"yr litimeod  heaw
Sdeth .f tlie *oy G~Wnakid heigar4e
t    jiohmen 4rbile nteringt Ii  1a id lastF
4W? 4.A ADeli r . this-ithou t fai tojna
th ngand tellhige raiagad eittoeern
Jaiithant' 'hen )ie died within mile oai
his lips."
He Neagerly grasped the-  ichmient andf
unrolled 'it. He read thus: "Iii the last
hour df my~ life I inform yon that Iphdegne
never was in Mipah. She wa setdireb"-
ly to Jazef as I then was to Jerisalem
"Some  -iireling must'have unposed on,1%
becca. Lucia, the wifa of Apollophaneswho
'is now in Jerusalem' can tell You  nore
about this. Iphegin  hates Aleymhoseand
never loved him. I am certain b   belied
you. I can write no more. I die eontit.n
Farewell.        AMRAM, the Levite."
"Gracious God! I it possible t4hat I
wronged her!'"Joathan exelaie4-o-" But
what iqthis?.the hand of my lister. Pp I
see right? 0 God! I can -not    1.q  ile
buried his face in lis .hauns a4 wept sn
tears. Then he roused himself and 'read
" Beloved brother Jonathan:
"The messengers of Aasignfo    ed sp
that: mrmilaid da  erously sick in . ie-
salegn, and the governor would, altow rae to
see him, astehis was his last wish. .,hesi
ttd not and here I amt., Thank qdI iae
seen him again! Amram thinks I anis
danger bait I .care ftI i;have him again.-
He advised me toireieva,,your heart of the
hey burdenaJ have rolled on.it y he e-
ception practiced on me, aad Ipoby. T
wgman who- in Mizpah told ' e she wastph .
egi e,  *A-s8.4 '4t, otIph gie.:'Airaa
tell me the Knight when theoui is t c pt ye
her pi irseleg, end.that VQgy veggtoep
was brgetto    Iispah, There is o# 'thy
lse6ogbt-it was Asia  I sawbegere
andi feco giened her .insta ntly If 1  t't
die, bave  more to Etell the than,  ve
me4 lo e niyrm therxdnd sy M bxl th*
heaven wei ett~agoh fister     CtOeA
cThy sister REECAt

S

o5 u

IL
(I
C

S-
e

ma Y

and loathed ets
Again an4giet~ '
and she-oppnp9! .
jehr it

erent beings.
' re repeated
hastily
A4 b

I.

}*heybre.}8jAN" whet'is ma,1

_
.}

rAl              AL
fit

-Li


7                        TH
ar ,"a Jeghan, "Speak likea mor-
t~ i Mi  xat Iwo ship 'th e not.,"
th  dea.ret fied of ;?y
'~ i-e nopbe angryat-thee,Js'ustifor
Q Ifmust lJye theeab'he   mailly sam-
eygg,#$ the high-beptirg Jiart al-
*? o    etp4 lewordeajratelligble; but
1 tre _a(tan :Ybelieed could be en-
d      yd .   abn     ' ttep is now;the'
,tip lR4 ~aspased; it i a heavy dream,
awf  ight. 1y day hastbroken, my. sun
r     ~eu  anp; ,,m hpy, n4 Ikpow it be-

and most honored daughters sh t honube,
as thouartthe most heautiulamopg tie f ir-
est daughters, of Zion.-Come now, thou
deitretbelov dIphegine; 'cme'kith' me to
'aiymoterr She mourns the 16s8 of a great
nd 6g6o8d daughter; 'thou 'shalt 'fill the vacu-
-  ity il her heart Which theoss'of a daughter
t a~Uses./                   5A        v
Italf she went and htalf he  carried her
014 trin; uumph over the'corridorauid down the
flightoft the marble ste s,-where the coin-
panis of Jonathan received them with en-
thmsiastie cheers, and accompanied them to
tie 'house offmother Miriam.'
C HA P T E R' X L
THE HANUKA N- E AsT.
'rTenthousand men prompted by religious
ealelated 'by grand victories, aind enrap-
tuned with regained independene and lib-
Ortf can ac c iplish much in a short time.
'herefore while part of the army'beseiged
the Syrians in the fort of Abtiochueten thou-
: andoen !ere engaged in'rernoving every
traeofdhe Syrian do inion from, the city
mdatethplen 'reiiri g;theFtemple acd
the neo tm   Ieour&amp;:.;he idol and'alt r
were detroyed,4thsagtin'te ples hnd stat=
dibedthenIghio f dfiyalty re=

supriority was :viible in the city. The
courts of the teupJe were qpickly, cleansed
of ,pl pagang emains, the. temple; was hasti-
iygrepaied, rits front. wis covered  ith the
golden shields and.diadegs whichte war-
riorsA aid qund mong the spoils,   i in a
few' afs every thing had assumed its usual
aspect as it had before the Syrian occupation.
The altar having tein defiled by sacrifices
to the heathen hods,it was demolished, its
stoneswere deposited in a lonely corner of
the temple-mpunt and a new altar was built.
Every thing finished the twenty-fifth day
qf the inth month called Kialer, one hundred
ard sixtYfoul years befqrq the Christian
era, three years after the altar halbeen pro-
faned the very same day I3ycrders of Anti-
oehuS .piphianes-was appointedas the day
of re-dedication of te ,temple. From all
parts of the country and even from foreign
lands the  ulitude of pilgrims had  ome
to -erusalem, to witness the glorious day of
dedication. Thel anes and avenues ofJe-
rusaem but-lately desolate preseri d the
prospect of an ocean o  iMng bemgs. In
the suburbs of the city and many fArlongs
around it tents were pitched aind boths
built for the pilgrims who found no shl1tfr in
the' city.' Whatever the season bf ered in
fruits, flowers _nd' green br-anches was there
in abundance and  plenty f aulnials de-
ccrated'with lowers and ther'hon  ilded
were held ready for sacrif es "Joyradiat-
ed from every countenance,; happiness and
glory resounded from  all quarters of the
city in the music and songs of the pilrims.
In the morning of tie appointed day the
priests and Levites followed by an inimense
concourse of people cane, in solemn proces-
sion from  Miszah, carrying back to the
tepIe the huly garmentsusical instru-
mients ayd 'sacred vessels whiclh the had
saved. 'Outside of th 'e ity near:the toab
of the kings tey were joined by 'the Sons
of the Servants of Solion"-iwho carried in
ti~iunph the golden:'A&amp;i dlestick the golden'
table of shiebiedd di' golde~t/tof in-
eise, tMg6lde'n oivftsee, 'dhies es-
gil0f1d    lamdt ilver, ad thi trwures
Whiuhdhsf6ecsted for teifale. tWhen
gl~pyggedioig imliod tgl city deu ns-

es'for each2and shouted fosann4 as on the  Jerusalem never celebrated
feast pf booths. As the procession marched rious and great asthis. nWb  Z ba
through, the decorated streets followed by dedie$tl the secondte$pie s
the myrads, of sohputing singing and edn- dependent on P riand t qte wle
inggultitude, it 4ppearedthat the glory had the workof'a foreig deae   a t rit
returned ttIsrael. As they proceeded the favor.  utInow ael waf    tr   ,ad
numbers, of' enthusiasts'increased rapidly, iieenn.r4oe
and: always louder the voice of joy was ito e               aghe. a aa"n
heard. When .the irst had reached the joyed the valuablegifts o ' index  eittee n&amp;
bight of the temple mount the last were power to valae them fully, and hey. eso
still at its. base, and the whole mountain, free, low they came from .the bat p l4
was covered with living, singing, dancing, of inependece crowned ith vitor a=
and shouting persons.                   glory; nowtheyeaeofromslave/yto freedom
Thus the:Seroll of the Law was deposited all werefree., Therefore the euthis
in the mostsacred' place, the curtain: was_ rejoicing was boundless.
spanned to separate the'most holy from the  ,When Judahhad laid aside 'the af'
holy place.-Attevery 'performance one thou- garbs and insignia and steppednto the first
sand musicians'  supported two thousand court of the temple, called the cosrt o Is=
cantors and cantrices to proclaim 'in pious rael, he was received:by th chosen   of
psalnis the praise 'of the Lord of hosts.+- Israel who surrounded and congratulate
Then the golden bandlestiok, altar and table him and his brethersn this dayofna-on-
were placed in-the holy apartment. Jose al bappines , Judah replied with.a d
ben John-of Jeualem, the firstof the Sops voice: " I praise the Lord whohasredoem.
'of the-Servants of Solomon 'gave the;vial-of ed Israel from the hands of his enezes
pure oil sealed With the seal of the temple and '4w9;1 again in thia house. Ipraise
to J udalL Maccabee- and said to him: "Ju- the Liord who has chQger 'the houseo'mi
dah, great son of the ,great Matathia, it is father to lead Israel'spatriots tola nd
the will of' thy brethren the priests, the Le- victories.  ut as Ipromisedyou iinthe
vites, the-Nethinim and 'all the people that days of danger so Iwill d everknow.
thou be this day=the highpriest of Israel.-- Neither I nor any one of  mothers sal
Here is the golden candlestick and the pure assume any office or dignity in Israel. Vie-
oil which the Sous ofthe:Servants. of Solo- tory ,is the warrior's prize. Israel=is=free
mon faithfully guarded.  Thou, shalt re- even as in the days of Joshua;and  niam
kindle the'light ;in God's temple which was Israel is strong and dreadedbyeitspenemme
extinct for two years'"                even as in the, days of David -None shal
'Withott i: him a: chance to:make a deprive us of this freedom or doubtour
ithutgiin  hm  cane o  ak  astrength..,PHero are ou~r flysw jr Uepr --
reply  the priests  and Levites under the  pow- strnthe. san rt ar  o  f e   wrd e r Ite m
erful current of music and the boundless
. ".   down not to be taken out till;Israel esm=
shouts of enthusiasm clad Judah with the mands. We are w'itwe wto srae fie
eight garments of'the highpriest.' after and independent like you.
the diadem wae placed on his head, the    The 'spokesniin of the asseinbled iuil.
voices'were silent; the lamps were filled, and tude said to Judah':' " Weare thyre de  t
Judah kindled the lights.               aties of Israel, and it is our dtei=f tos'
Proceeding t 'the' outer altar where the  gblessiris of 'freedomjust .,I ell bi
sacrifoes were prepared the sWords of the  rciu sacrifices. e"Re'4in  d ' th eads
king uspededabdve tlfe'alar were 'broken, in winning those eaorbsl'ift meisn'~ti
with te fragmenits 'the stones of thiodltar firstto eure and 'guai'dthnm." ' Tifreto
were struck till the sparks kindled the wood i'ael thuNogh tieasm 1jfapjitd iidai
and the sacrifices were set on fire. Now Ju- Maccabee highpriest of Israel forever. El-
dah returned to the holy place and 'burnt easer A~varan, thy brother, shall be our gov-
the frankincense, then he placed twelve .ernor, Jonathan Apphas, Simon Thassi and
sh-wbreads on the golden table, and return- John Caddis, the sons of the glorio ts Mata
d to, less the people.     .thia, shall be the chief captains         f lsaaela'


ed iiit"i6~
then} W  AA
i~iwe" w   i~

"     +  k
2 ~idShe

4i A BE E S
'    fadtb ibae odo; and 1srte1 b8
$ ,d oehic les  honoi s upon yotb ds ±
o l wdar    ven ma~on to adiiionis,
fane       'W  atie I°ofFa do the Lor
in3 ~tIn ive 9f
my d      .aofl  r.  But vG rs"ju .t;mfr hu
says tho rdrt f'  rar athe gts of Para
virtu os pheie tj I ,oe0ed f to }h  r
.i~ h~~~ ~ t ,2he 9 a  .tker fr jm
~in {his freowe wil1denet~itgi  ti2'. b
hT  pvsos tel bfoeJikf~
tax 44 t     d  'Af  ,z
&amp; ,t  r  uikph  gh eJ  i  ie  ibpm ;
i ' og   4her sm    ihtegdYs'
a tFt4

aibt~4rc
helped glory

Cd  5[    ;3A   ;.  3T''c.,+   j y'  oSi:=fi'" jS jif  Els .  ingzerst;4lii. af ' ku  c r .t  ; a
,                                           t  Aj Lll
te lpry to  Wae, VL                "F   f"a
«iL i~y  rl~t P t  fi~  td  ,.J c., , .    T f  Mi,_     , lai  ,'   " %z*.  i! s     :1t  J _  s .. ~11
L .   (  ,2 Y t    P i  ,':  :   .   ^~  (   ir  "     . a °f         .
I "   'r j+  .  .'' « . rL  '  .  r! 1 iwt    g  , f sYi .' e _  i  '  " ,  r  . .  .  -
I                                  . p  h  t     .  '-r  b "  -  (  , 1 Y ;y ,"  I    4 .  "     i

vu


  
             
         
       
   
