
    ----CITATION----
        Williams, Henry Llewellyn, (1842-). The Icy Deep, or, True unto death! .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8323
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE ICY DEEP; 
               OR, TRUE UNTO DEATH! 
               A STORY OF WILD. ADVENTURES AND FEARFUL PERILS. 
             
            BY MAT MIZEN, Author of 'The Rush of the Tornado,' 'The Flaming Beacon,' &c., &c 
            
               NEW-YORK: 
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER,  
                     No. 13 FRANKFORT STREET. 
                  
               
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress; in this year 1868, by ROBERT M. DE WITT, in the Clerk's Office of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. 
          
          
             
            POPULAR SONG AND JOKE BOOKS. 
             
               The Follow that Looks Like Me Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Pretty Little Sarah Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Gipsy's Warning Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Naughty, Naughty Girls Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Vive La Compagnie Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Jolly Irishman's Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Goose Hangs High Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Meet me in the Lane Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Tim Finigan's Wake Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Black Crook Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The "Whos'e been Here since I've been Gone" Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Tilt Skirt Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Shamus O'Brien Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Pat Malloy Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Wearing of the Green Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Hooley's Black Star Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Hooley's High Daddy Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Free and Easy Comic Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Bryant's New Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               J. S. Berry's Comic Song Book, Price 10 Cents. 
               Eph Horn's Own Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Bryant's Cane Brake Refrains, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Stars and Stripes Songster, No. 1, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Stars and Stripes Songster, No. 2, Price 10 Cents. 
               Old Abe's Joker; OR, WIT AT THE WHITE HOUSE, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Annie Laurie Melodist, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Handy Andy Song Book, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Rataplan, OR, THE "RED, WHITE AND BLUE" WARBLER, Price 10 Cents. 
               Bryant's Songs From Dixie's Land, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Teddy Regan Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Pete Morris' American Comic Melodist, Price 10 Cents. 
               Bryant's Essence of Old Virginny, Price 10 Cents. 
               Matt Peel's Banjo, Price 10 Cents. 
               Unsworth's Burnt Cork Lyrics, Price 10 Cents. 
               Bryants Power of Music, Price 10 Cents. 
               Mac Dill Darrell Dime Melodist, No. 1, Price 10 Cents. 
               Mac Dill Darrell Dime Melodist, No. 2, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Patriotic Songster, Price 10 Cents. 
               Paddy's Own Dime Song Book, Price 10 Cents. 
               Fred Shaw's American Diadem, Price 10 Cents. 
               Fred Shaw's Champion Comic Melodist, Price 10 Cents. 
               New Dime American Joker, Price 10 Cents. 
               Bob Smith's Clown Song and Joke Book, Price 10 Cents. 
               Byron Christy's Burnt Cork Comicalities, Price 10 Cents. 
               Byron Christy's Clown and Joke Book, Price 10 Cents. 
               Mac Dill Darrell Dime Joke Book, Price 10 Cents. 
               The Soldier's Health Companion; or, Hints Gathered from old Campaigners, Price 10 Cents. 
             
            Copies mailed, post paid, on receipt of price. Address R. M. DE WITT, 13 Frankfort St., N. Y. 
          
       
      
         
            The icy deep, or, True unto death! 
             
            THE ICY DEEP. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE FACE IN THE DARK. 
               THE Raven's Tower, the remains of an old feudal castle, stood on a hill some two or three miles distant from the pretty little village of -- Devon. 
               It was a fine piece of old architecture was the Raven's Tower. 
               Clothed in ivy, the crumbling old pile was in sooth a romantic remnant of former times. 
               Any stranger entering the village near was invariably advised not to fail in paying a visit ere his departure to the sombre grey old pile known as the Raven's Tower. 
               In summer or winter time of year a walk from the adjacent village was well repaid by an hour's stroll in and around the old ruin, gazing upon the peaceful romantic scene. 
               A favourite resort for lovers and admirers of the picturesque was the old Raven's Tower. 
               A thick copse near, afforded a retreat to the feathered songsters who the livelong day trilled their sweet notes upon the air. 
               It was towards the close of an oppressive and sultry day in the month of July, 184-, that two wayfarers bent their steps up the hill leading to the Raven's Tower. 
               One of these, a dashing handsome young man of perhaps three or four-and-twenty years of age, was laughingly endeavouring to carry his companion, a fair young girl, up the steep hillside to the tower above. 
               But, the young lady stoutly resisting the liberty, the two anon walked peacefully to their destination, the air meanwhile ringing with the shouts of the fair one. 
               Reaching the old ivy-clad ruin, the two sat upon a huge block of granite that, covered with bright green moss, rested just without the Raven's Tower. 
               In silence they gazed at the old pile, and anon at the wild copse below, or far-off ocean that, like a thread of silver, was just visible in the distance. 
               "A beautiful prospect indeed, Clara And so this is the Raven's Tower, eh?" 
               "Yes, Frank. What think you of it?" replied the young lady addressed. 
               "'Tis as you said, a beautiful romantic spot. See the copse below, with its trees of varied garb, some of pale green or rich brown tint, the dwarf oak, the dark green fir, all mingled in beautiful contrast. The coast, too, in the distance, the pretty village standing to the left, just discernable, the spire of its church peeping up in the air, and last, not least, the grey crumbling old ivy-covered tower. It is indeed a sweet spot for meditation, Clara, nor do I now wonder at your oft repeated praises of Raven's Tower." 
               "Oh! I thought it would please you, you dear romantic creature!" exclaimed the fair girl, as her companion in silence now cast his eyes upon the prospect before him, 
               "Yes, it is indeed as pretty a scene as ere I gazed upon, Clara, and I have traveled far and near too. Well, they must not talk to me of the sights and beauties of Italy, Venice, on any lauded land. Give me dear peaceful, rural, merry England, with its sunny vales, and rich green hills." 
               "And yet, despite your love for your native land, you mad wild truant, you are ever away from its shores, wandering in some far-off clime. But a little month at home, and now again, Frank, you have determined to set off to a region of frost, where all is ice and snow. The Arctic regions! Upon an Arctic expedition you now are bound. A perilous enterprise, in the prosecution cution of which so many brave hearts have lost their lives. But you will not go, you will think better of it, dear Frank? Surely you will stay behind, and join not in this mad expedition, at the earnest request of your loved cousin Clara." The young girl here gazed pleadingly up in the face of her companion, her large full dark eyes fixed earnestly on his bronzed and handsome countenance. 
               "Clara, dear one," exclaimed the young man, as he clasped the fair girl's hand in his, "you know I love you. Returning last voyage from India, after an absence of three years, I found you more beautifully enchanting than ever, and with wonder asked myself why I had not before sued for this dear hand. Three weeks back, however, with trembling lips, your Frank, who at sea or on land fears nought human, ventured to pray that you might be his. You blessed him, sweet one, with the assurance that his tardy love was returned, though they told me you had some time before my coming home betrothed yourself to another." A dark blood-red flush here mantled the fair girl's cheek, and, turning her head, she heaved a sigh, unnoticed, however, by her companion, who resumed-"Before I saw you, sweet Clara, on leaving my ship a month back at the London Docks, I was introduced to a party of brave hearts who were forming an expedition to the Arctic regions. Asked if I would join, I with eagerness said yes. Nor can I, now that all is ready for a start, the brave ship leaving Liverpool two days hence on her perilous voyage, retract my promise. I must go, my Clara, but be assured on my return I shall call upon you to redeem your pledge, giving me this sweet hand. Then, fair cousin, in some lovely rural retreat I'll seek repose, nor travel more, content with happiness and thee." 
               The ardent young seaman here bent down and imprinted a kiss upon the snowy brow of his fair cousin. 
               "Dear Frank, I fear if you depart upon this dreadful voyage to the Polar regions we shall meet no more." 
               A tear here stood upon the eyelid of the young girl, who gazed with pensive sorrow into the dark handsome features of her companion, who, with a merry ringing laugh exclaimed- 
               "Pshaw! Clara. Why should you think this? Have I not for years, ever since my boyhood's days, braved successfully the perils of the briny deep? Twice wrecked, have I not, with the aid of the All-powerful Ruler above, returned after all in safety to my native shores? Then why, loved Clara, should you fear thus for my safety in this Arctic expedition? The same Providence that before has watched over your sailor-cousin may again safely rescue him from danger. Remember the old lines:- 
                      
                        There's a sweet little cherub that sits up aloft 
                        To keep watch for the life of poor Jack." 
                     
                  
                
               "Still Frank," replied the young girl, a look of heavy sadness and gloom resting upon her beautiful features-"still, my Frank, I cannot dismiss from my mind the idea that something terrible will happen, some danger far worse than any you have before encountered will take place should you persist in this intention to visit the horrible region of the North Pole. Oh! be ruled by me, dear cousin (whose love you know, is yours, and only yours). Put off the voyage. Write, say anything, but go not hence. All are aware of your courage in the hour of danger. None dare or will assert that fear keeps you from fulfilling your promise. Say, oh! my Frank, you will not go." 
               "I dare not, Clara. For my honor's sake I must go upon this voyage to the Arctic regions. The very fact of its perilous nature prevents my breaking my pledged word." 
               The young man with sorrowful gaze looked up at the old ruined tower, turning his head from the pleading tear-bedewed face of his lovely young cousin. 
               A truly young and beautiful girl was Clara Burnham. Of the medium height, her figure was cast in nature's purest mould. The faultless outlines of the young girl's richly developed bust could be traced by a tight fitting jacket. With a complexion dazzling, fair Clara Burnham's lovely features combined the hue of the blush rose. Rich full coral lips, white even pearly teeth set off her small and well-formed mouth. Long curls of bright auburn hair fell in showers upon shoulders, round, smooth, and dimpled, and white as Parian marble. But that which most struck the beholder was the young girl's large full beautiful eyes of the darkest hazel. They were as bright as a young fawn's, with beautifully arched eyebrows, and fringed with long lashes glossy as the finest silk. Rounded dimpled cheeks, upon which generally rested a merry smile, completed the charms of the fair girl, and won the admiration of every beholder, causing her to be called not only the belle of the village near which she resided, but the handsomest girl in Devonshire. 
               Casting a glance upon the features of his lovely cousin, Frank Aldersley the young sailor was almost tempted to forego his word, and give up joining the brave band who two days after were about to set sail from their native shores for the far-off and dangerous regions of the North Pole-the cold and frigid regions, where all was eternal ice and snow. 
               At length, with a smile upon his handsome bronzed features, the young sailor drew the fair girl's arm in his, and endeavored with cheering words to rid her breast of the gloomy fears that oppressed her, walking meanwhile round the old Raven's Tower, ever and anon trying to divert her attention to the many feathered songsters who had built their nests in the old ruin, and circled joyously in the air, making the place ring with their notes. 
               But all was in vain. 
               Nought could chase away the sadness from the fair brow of the lovely girl. 
               At length, halting by an entrance at the old ruin, Clara Burnham looking fixedly into the eyes of her lover, exclaimed: 
               "You are determined to go upon this terrible voyage, Frank, about which I have such fears?" 
               "I dare not retract my word, Clara," replied her cousin, in sorrowful accents. 
               "'Tis well. Then I will tell you what I saw yesternight." 
               "What you saw yesternight? What mean you, Clara?" 
               "Listen," exclaimed the young girl, with her large dark eyes fixed earnestly upon her lover's features. "Last night, as I sat in my father's library at the old Manor House, I began thinking of your so soon again leaving us. It seemed to me but as yesterday your asking me to pledge to you my troth. I thought of my girlish foolish attachment to a young gentleman whom I met some two years back whilst on a visit to a neighbor. Thinking of this and our interview here at Raven's Tower three weeks ago, when you asked me, Frank, if I would become your bride-reflecting upon this, I sat there in that dark wainscoated gloomy old chamber in your uncle's house till I fancied a crowd of human figures were gathering round and about me." 
               "The effect of a powerful imagination, Clara. Think not of it," exclaimed Frank, as he placed his arm lovingly round his beautiful cousin's slender waist. 
               "Nay, Frank, you have not heard all. Do you remember before you went away on your last voyage, three years ago, a scene that took place-a scene, an incident of strange wonder to us all?" 
               The young man here started and gazed with now pallid features into the no less pale face of the fair girl beside him. 
               "Good Heavens, do you allude to that wild dream you had the night before I left England?" 
               "Yes. But as I told you then, I tell you now, Frank Aldersley. "'Twas no dream, but a true vision of future ill I saw that night. Did you not write home a twelvemonth after informing us all of your narrow escape from the tiger that in my vision I beheld as plainly as I now behold you declining fiery orb of day sinking behind those heavy clouds?" 
               With blanched features, the young sailor gazed wonderingly and in awe upon his cousin, then, in excited tones, exclaimed: 
               "By Heavens, 'twas indeed a wild mysterious foreknowledge of coming events vouchsafed to you that night, Clara. I remember it well now, and can vividly recall to mind my fearful struggle and escape with the fierce denizen of the Indian jungle (as in your dream or vision, call it what you will). I was dragged to the earth by the powerful brute, and but for the bullet from a gun sent with unerring aim into the beast's brain should not now live to relate the dread occurrence." 
               A shudder here shook the frame of the bold and daring young seaman at the remembrance of a terrible incident that had happened two years before. 
               "Frank, can you, upon recalling that horrible vision of your cousin's to mind, can you doubt that Heaven has strangely gifted her with second sight or power to see as in a map future events laid out before her?" 
               The young girl here drew her figure up to its full height, the while glaring with her fine dark hazel eyes full upon her lover. 
               Like some inspired being, or beautiful enchantress, looked the fair girl, as, with head erect and hand raised upwards to heaven, she stood there by the entrance of the Raven's Tower. 
               With a glance of mingled awe, admiration, and devoted love, the young sailor exclaimed- 
               "Beloved Clara, at the same time that I can vividly remember the fearful vision you beheld ere I left England on my last voyage, and its terrible fulfilment a twelvemonth afterwards, can I doubt that Providence has indeed gifted you with what the world calls second sight. Having firm belief in this, and loving you, sweet girl, with heartfelt affection, yet I dare not-though you beheld me, in a vision, this hour, suffering a fearful death on land, or drowning in the fathomless deep of the briny ocean-I could not break my bond, with the bold hands about to risk the terrors of the frozen seas-the Icy Deep." 
               "Then, Frank, do I fear we shall never meet again. Take this, and remember, if you perish-recall to mind in your dying hour that Clara Burnham, if not yours, will be none other's. To you, dear Frank, she will be True unto Death." 
               The young girl, with quivering lips and trembling hands, here gave to her lover the half of a wedding-ring. 
               With tear-dimmed eyes, and in silence, he took the half ring of gold placing it carefully in his vest. 
               "Now, dear Frank, I will tell you of a something that ocurred yesternight in the library of the Blue Bells. After you left us to go to the village," resumed the fair girl, who, with her lover, noted not the gathering darkness of the night, or the distant rumbling of thunder in the heavens above-"after you had gone my father, who you may remember had been seated with us in the library, left me alone. Oh! dear Frank, never shall I forget the terrible incidents that followed, exceeding far in horror the vision of two years back. As I sat there, in the centre of the library, listening to the chirruping of the birds without, and gazing upon the setting sun, it seemed, all in a moment, as though the chamber was filled with a dense thick mist, my senses seemed wrapped and lost to all earthly things, my eyes staring wildly for the bright setting sun seen only a moment before. Gradually the thick mist clearing, I beheld a strange and terrible scene." 
               The fair narrator here drew her hand over her eyes and clung, as if for protection from some threatening ill, to the side of her lover, who, wrapped in what was falling from his cousin's lips, remained with pallid features staring vacantly at the gathering clouds that now in heavy banks rolled overhead. 
               A few moments silence was at length broken. 
               Again the subdued whispering tones of the yonng girl's voice fell upon her eager listener's ears. 
               "Frank, when at length the thick mist that had obscured my vision cleared away I beheld the tall masts of a ship, her hull scarcely visible to my sight, as she was surrounded by huge blocks of thick-ribbed ice. In an instant a voice seemed to whisper in my ears that it was your vessel, and even at that moment a huge block of ice, slipping aside, revealed to my eyes the forepart of the brave ship, and here, in gleaming letters of gold, I read the word 'Sea Mew.' It was, then, your ship. I now, with straining eyes, awaited what was to follow. Oh! the remembrance of the sight I beheld in my vision last night I scarce can tell. I saw the brave ship struggling through the sea of ice, on, on through the Frozen Deep, her tall masts and rigging distinguishable from amid the huge blocks that surrounded her. Anon she seemed to have passed all danger, sailing once more in open waters. But a stifled shriek escaped my lips as I suddenly beheld two mountains of ice slowly but surely bearing down for the brave ship. I beheld human forms hurrying to and fro. I saw the captain of the doomed vessel bareheaded addressing his crew, I seemed to hear wild cries of distress ringing on the air, the wild roar as of water in a gale of wind. Nearer, nearer bore on the hills of ice-one on one side and one on the other of the devoted bark. There is no escape. On came the icebergs. I beheld them, Frank, within a yard of the ship. I saw you in speechless horror gazing at their approach. I then saw for a few seconds the brave ship with a mountain of ice on either side. The next she was gone! The ice alone remained!" 
               With waxen livid face, the excited girl stood glaring wildly into space, and as an ejaculation was trembling upon her awestricken lover's lips she exclaimed (the while her clutch grew firmer on his arm), "See! see! There! Do you see? Again the Arctic regions! But no longer out at sea amidst the floating bergs. Behold now barren rocks, a sterile land covered with snow-nothing but snow. Snow is falling, falling thickly round me, and there, in the drifting storm are two poor wanderers. They struggle manfully through the drift. Onward they go, but the snow-storm beats them back. Ah! yonder comes another form struggling in the snowy mass, but 'tis not a human figure. 'Tis white-white as the fleecy cloud that falls so thickly on all around. The two travellers in that wild lone Arctic region now turn in their onward course-they retrace their steps, they fly, they are pursued-pursued by the ravenous polar bear. Yes, yes. I can see his white and gleaming tusks. The unfortunates are doomed! Yet no, he that has gained ahead turns upon his heel and, as his comrade is seized by the ravening brute, raises a knife. He stabs the beast, it falls, they are saved. The conqueror of that wild denizen of the land of snow now looks towards me. It is-it is yourself! And now, God of heaven! see, the scene changes. Frank, there, there I behold you on a snow-covered rock. Before you stands the man you saved, but now in his hands he holds a gun. Great Heavens! he points it towards you! You will be slain by him whose life you saved. The murderer turns his head. Ha! 'tis he whom I-And see, see you not? There, there in the dark, his white face staring upon us!" With a wild shriek the young girl now fell senseless at her lover's feet, and even as she slid from his arms, to his horror, Frank beheld the outline line of a white face distant some dozen yards from where he stood. 
               Scarce conscious of his actions, the excited young man, snatching a pistol from his pocket, fired, the loud report deadened by a burst of thunder. 
               The next instant two figures were struggling desperately beside the ruins of Raven's Tower. 
               All was inky darkness. 
               The storm that had been gathering during the revelation of Clara Burnham's wild vision to her lover now burst out in all its fury. 
               The spectral vivid blue lightning followed flash upon flash. 
               Whilst the burst of thunder seemed as though about to scatter with its reverberations the old ivy-clad ruins of Raven's Tower level with the ground. 
               Fierce as was the storm, it exceeded not the rage of the two struggling beings on the low hill-side. 
               Aldersley seemed instinctively to become aware that he was combating with the man to whom they had told him his faithless cousin had pledged her troth a year before. 
               Wildly the two men struggled in the howling storm. 
               No cry for help escaped either. 
               Hidden from each other in the inky darkness, they fought with savage fury, ignorant alike as with whom they were doing battle. 
               At one moment a wild cry of rage rings upon the air in a pause of the tempest. 
               The next there is the sound of a heavy fall. 
               Then all is still. 
               Save for the occasional bursts of thunder, all is silence. 
               A blue vivid blinding blaze of forked lightning anon lights up the scene. 
               Standing by the Raven's Tower is revealed a solitary human form, with clasped hands, bending over the senseless body of a young girl. 
               Whilst below, disappearing in the thick copse, is the figure of a man, who turns, shaking his fist defiantly in the direction of the old tower. 
                
               Again all is darkness. 
               An hour afterwards all nature was changed. 
               The hurtling thunder no longer echoed in the skies. 
               The blue lightning no longer lit up, with horrible brilliancy, the inky clouds. 
               All was now bright and beautiful. 
               The lustrous moon rode high above in a cloudless star-spangled sky. 
               The summer storm was at an end. 
               The bat, with leathern wings outspread, circled round and about the old Raven's Tower, whilst the tu-whit-whoo of an old owl sounded clear in the silent night air. 
               It was as the distant bell of the village church was giving out the hour of ten that two figures left the vicinity of the Raven's Tower. 
               Half an hour afterwards Aldersley and his fair cousin entered the portals of the old manor house, known as the Blue Bells, the residence of the wealthy Squire Samuel Burnham. 
               That night was one of sorrow and gloom to the light-hearted nephew of the squire, for, despite the visions vouchsafed to his second-sighted cousin, Frank felt in honour and manliness that he could not dare to break his words with the captain and crew of the ship Sea-Mew. 
               The vessel that was destined for a perilous voyage to the Arctic regions. 
               Frank felt bound in all honour to join the brave crew- 
               And dare the perils of the Frozen Deep, though their frozen waters proved his shroud. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               OUT AT SEA-LOCKED IN THE ICE-HUNTING FOR BEARS-A GOOD SHOT. 
               OUT at sea! Approaching the Polar regions! 
               Bravely the good ship Sea-Mew sped on her voyags. 
               It is early morning. All on board the brave barque are preparing paring for that most refreshing of beverages in cold weather, good strong coffee. 
               Several hardy tars are awaiting impatiently at the door of the cook's cuddy for their share of the hot draught, that will put into a glow their frozen chilled frames. 
               It is a fine morning, but cold-piercingly cold. 
               The sun rising in the heavens, casting a thin cold light upon the waters, adding with its rays to the gloomy aspect of the scene, giving out no heat, but serving to reveal more plainly to the eyes of the mariners on board the brave ship the huge blocks of ice that float along on every side. 
               "Well, Fred Darker, what do yer think of this? Pretty cold this morning, ain't it?" 
               "Topsail sheet blocks, you're about right, Jem Bateson, it is cold-so cold that shiver me if I warn't afraid I'd lose my smelling-bottle when I turned out of my hammock." 
               A loud laugh here burst from the hands that were assembled in a group round the cook's galley, as the man, Fred Darker, clapped his fist to a huge nose, the redness of which went to prove the speaker rather partial to something stronger than coffee. 
               "I say, Tom Handsail," exclaimed a brawny seaman. 
               "Ay, ay, that's me." 
               "You've cruised afore in this 'ere latitude?" 
               "I rather believes I have, Sammy Dunk. What then?" 
               "Why, is it true that it is so infernal cold at times that your coffee freezes afore you can get it down?" The fellow here winked slyly at his companions, it being a known fact that not only had Master Handsail never been in those seas before, but that he was also a most confirmed and inveterate liar. 
               "What? Coffee freeze before you get it down? That's nothing. Why I saw that happen once." 
               "Indeed, Tom? How was that?" 
               "Why, a poor fellow was waiting with others, as we are doing now, only the morning was about ten thousand times colder. Well, in course we was all eager for the stuff, as we is now. At last up it comes. The poor fellow I'm speaking of collars hold, puts the tin cup to his lips, and began to drink. Lord bless yer, yer should have only seed it. Such a sight." 
               "Was it, Tommy?" 
               "I rather think it was. I'll never forget it. What do yer think the cup did?" 
               "What?" echoed the listeners in a breath, as though eager for the conclusion of the yarn. 
               "Why, if the tin cup didn't actually freeze to his mouth I'm no sailor, that's all." 
               "No!" 
               "But I say it did." 
               "Well, and what did they do for him, Tom?" 
               "What did they do, Dunk? Why, shiver my timbers, douse my top-lights, what could they do? The poor fellow remained standing, and didn't move a hair." 
               "Well?" 
               "And at the end of half an hour we had to pour hot water round him afore we could move him. He'd actually froze to the deck. The tin cup had froze to his mouth and he was a dead man." 
               "Oh! oh! oh!" 
               "It's true." 
               "All right, Tom. That'll do." 
               "Got any more like it, Handsail?" 
               The ship's bell now gave the usual warning for eight o'clock. Scarce had the ringing of its notes ceased echoing on the air than two figures appeared issuing from the hatchway. 
               The foremost of these, a stout hale man, of some forty years of age, exclaimed, on setting foot upon the deck- 
               "Well, Frank, here we are, lad, cruising at last fairly in the Arctic seas. See, by heavens, a huge mountain of ice there to leeward-the first berg we yet have sighted. What ho! Hayward, Newton! What ho, lads! Below there! An iceberg to leeward. Now then, my boys, we are fairly sailing in the Icy Deep. 
               Rubbing his hands with glee, Captain Ebsworth of the Sea-Mew, for such he was, with our hero, Aldersley, kept pacing the deck, scanning, with steadfast gaze, a huge mountain of ice, that by an unpractised eye might have been mistaken for an island in the distance, so large was it. 
               In obedience to the captain's hail, the officers he had summoned appeared quickly on deck, and, with all hands on board, were soon engaged solely in noting the huge hills of ice that each moment grew plainer to the sight. 
               Nearer and nearer the brave ship and floating berg approached each other. 
               The sun, casting its rays upon the iceberg, caused a thousand corruscations as it glinted on its uneven sides, that glittered like diamonds in the cold clear air. 
               Onward came the huge hill of frozen waters till the immense berg lay but a quarter of a mile from the vessel. 
               But why do the captain and all on board give utterance to an exclamation of horror? 
               The faces of the roughest tars pale as they gaze upon the approaching hill of ice. 
               In silence all gaze spell-bound at the mountain of ice that each moment draws nearer and nearer. 
               At length the silence of the scene was broken, as, in trumpet tones, the captain orders one of the boats to be got ready for service. 
               A dozen eager hands at once pressed forwards. 
               Whispers and exclamations of pain and horror now are uttered by all on board. 
               For there is a sight before them that chills the very lifeblood in their veins. 
               All eyes have noticed a flag floating in the breeze from a projecting corner of the berg. 
               Underneath this sat the form of a man! 
               Beside the miserable shipwrecked mariner reclined a huge dog. 
               Both seemed to be anxiously gazing at the approaching ship. 
               Nearer, yet nearer, approach the brave ship and mountain of ice. 
               At length so close that a biscuit might be thrown from one to the other. 
               The captain now gave orders to wear ship. 
                
               A nearer vicinity to the mountainous iceberg would be dangerous. 
               Seizing his speaking trumpet, the captain hails the solitary stranger, who still sits calmly beside his faithful dog. 
               "Where away, there, my poor fellow? We are getting a boat ready to bring you off." 
               All waited a wild shout of joy from the wretched figure on the berg. 
               But it came not. 
               All is silence. 
               Neither man nor dog moved from their post. 
               As if frozen to the ice, they remained where they were first discovered. 
               A groan and cry of horror now escaped from all. 
               The fatal truth was apparent to the distressed crew of the Sea-Mew. 
               He whom they would have risked their lives to save was past human aid. 
               The lone figure on the berg, and the faithful dog, were no more. 
               The Union Jack floated over the dead. 
               What a death! 
               A thrill of horror was experienced by all that gazed upon that silent form. 
               How came the man there? 
               Who, what was he? How many days had he sailed thus upon the ship of ice ere he perished? These were the questions each asked the other as they stood in horror and amaze glaring at the berg that now gradually left them, growing every moment less and less distinct to the sight till finally lost to view. 
               A sigh of relief escaped the breasts of all as the iceberg with its ghastly load was finally lost to sight. 
               But none could forget the lone mariner and his dog- 
               Sailing there in the frozen seas upon his death ship- 
               The huge and mountainous iceberg. 
               For hours the strange and terrible sight they had witnessed was the one topic of conversation with the crew of the Sea Mew. 
               A heavy gloom settled upon them. 
               All were bold daring hardy men- 
               Men who, with foreknowledge of fearful perils, had embarked in a dangerous hazardous enterprise. 
               But even the most indifferent to danger shuddered as he recalled to mind the dead mariner and his dog. 
               On on sped the brave ship, each hour getting further further amid floating ice. 
               Bergs were now seen on all sides- 
               Huge floating masses of ice- 
               One of which in contact with the brave vessel would in a moment bury her beneath the waters of the frozen seas. 
               On all sides was ice. 
               Ice! ice! nothing but ice. 
               The sun, like a huge ball of copper, shone high overhead. 
               But no cheerful warmth was experienced from its rays. 
               Nought but the piercing cutting wind from the frozen north was felt by the seamen of the Sea-Mew. 
               Fairly now in the Arctic regions the good ship sped on. 
               Night at length fell upon the scene. 
               No moon with its silvery ray lit up the waters. 
               All was inky darkness- 
               Thick, black as a funeral pall. 
               Pacing to and fro upon the deck, Captain Ebsworth the commander of the Sea-Mew, shouted his warning to the helmsman who guided the brave vessel through the waters of the frozen regions. 
               Huge blocks of ice ever and again struck the brave ship with fearful violence, threatening instant destruction, and causing her to tremble from stem to stern. 
               Anon two dark figures appeared issuing from the hatchway. Stumbling up on deck, they joined the captain in his watch. 
               "A dark night, captain." 
               "Yes, Frank, and one of danger too." 
               "You think so, captain?" exclaimed a tall handsome man, whose features were lighted up by the glare of a lantern hung in the rigging at that moment by one of the crew. 
               "That I do indeed, Wardour. Ah! dost hear that?" 
               An exclamation of alarm escaped the lips of all on deck- 
               Whilst the captain shouted wildly his orders to the man at the helm. 
               A strange roaring crashing noise now resounded on all sides. 
               Ever and again a loud report, like the snapping of a pistol echoing in the air. 
               Then followed a fearful crashing, as of broken ice. 
               The ship, stayed from proceeding onwards in her course, shook and heaved to and fro, groaning and creaking in every timber like a huge thing of ice. 
               Crash! crash! 
               In wild fear the seamen of the Sea-Mew gathered on the deck. 
               In the thick heavy inky darkness all were conscious of two large structures beside them, that loomed like phantoms on either side of the brave ship. 
               Each moment it was expected would behold the foundering of the vessel. 
               But the wild noise at length ceased. 
               All was silence. 
               Nought sounding in the air but the whistling of the wind in the rigging of the ship. 
               Slowly sped the hours of that night to the bold mariners of the Sea-Mew. 
               At length morning dawned upon them. 
               A wild sight was then revealed to all. 
               A cry of horror escaped the lips of those bold seamen in the Arctic regions as they gazed around them upon the scene revealed by the early light. 
               A scene of wild fearful grandeur to those who gazed upon it. 
               Prayers of thankfulness were uttered by the hardy mariners to the All-powerful One above as they by the morning light were made aware of a fearful hideous danger they had escaped as by a miracle a few hours before. 
                
               Firmly fixed in the frozen waters on either side of the brave ship were two huge mountains of ice. 
               High, high above the tapering masts of the good ship the icebergs reared their glistening summits. 
               Only a few feet distant from the sides of the vessel were they firmly fixed in the frozen waters. 
               A nearer approach in the darkness of the night, and the huge hills of ice would have crushed the ship on either side like glass, shivering her to pieces and burying her beneath the frozen deep. 
               A shudder crept through the frames of the hardy seamen on board as they beheld the danger they had passed scatheless the preceeding night. 
               All around was ice, thick-ribbed ice. 
               Like iron the good ship was rivetted in the ice. 
               For miles round now nought could be discerned save large fields of ice. Like hills, on every side huge bergs reared their glittering heads to the clouds above. 
               It was a wild scene- 
               Of fearful grandeur. 
               In mute awe and admiration the seamen of the Sea-Mew gazed upon the sight before them. 
               All was ice, nothing but ice. 
               The good ship could proceed no further. 
               She was fast frozen in- 
               Fixed like a rock in the solid Deep. 
               Standing by the forecastle, as the morning light shone upon the scene, were three figures- 
               The captain, Frank Aldersley, and Wardour, who had remained upon the deck till the dawn of day revealed their situation. 
               "Well, captain, what do you think of this?" exclaimed Frank who, with awe and a feeling akin to alarm, gazed at the icebergs on either side of the ship, and recalling the dream or vision of his fair cousin (who had forewarned an incident like unto this, but attendant with a hideous result they had by a miracle escaped), could not withhold a nervous shudder creeping through his frame 
                
               "What do I think, my boy? Why, that we have, by God's providence, had a narrow escape. But three or four feet nearer, and one of those bergs would have crushed our brave ship like pasteboard. But we have escaped, though we are fairly frozen in." 
               "And what will be your course now, Captain Ebsworth?" exclaimed Wardour. 
               "Why, we must wait till the waters are unbound. We are locked in, and must make the best of it. 
               The prospect was dismal, indeed- 
               Icy plains or icy pinnacles- 
               Far as the eye could reach, no relief from the clear, cutting ice- 
                      
                        "Ice to the front of them- 
                        Ice to the rear of them- 
                        Ice on both sides of them-" 
                     
                  
                
               Moody and dejected, the young men, with folded arms, gazed with steadfast eyes upon the iceberg by the vessel's side, nor could the smiles of his companion, or lively converse, disperse the dark shadow from his brow that rested there. 
               Richard Wardour a stranger to all on board save Captain Ebsworth, had joined the ship the day of her departure from the dock. Of handsome gentlemanly exterior, it was known by all he was a man of means, and it was supposed had joined the perilous enterprise for its very dangers. Only after the first few weeks was it discovered that a private pique, or domestic calamity, had driven him to quit suddenly the land of his birth. 
               To all on board Richard Wardour was strangely reserved-save with one exception. 
               With our hero, Frank, he was from the first upon warm terms of friendship. Introduced to him by the Captain, he at once conceived to Wardour friendly feeling, a feeling moro firmly cemented as time wore on. 
               The Captain now re-appearing upon deck, a party of twelve was collected together, who were to leave the ship and endeavor to find out their distance from the shore, the commander-in-ship ship having discovered by his chart that he had been coasting off Novazembla and must now be within a few miles of land. 
               The sailors, in high glee at the prospect of a few hours' leave from the ship, selected some implements of war, in the event of meeting with any savage inhabitants of the neighboring coast who might molest them, and were presently, headed by Frank and Wardour, scampering over the rough ice like wild boys let loose from school. 
               A strange creature is your true tar- 
               Bold, fearless, light-hearted, and generous to a fault- 
               Leading a life of trial, vicissitude, and danger- 
               Ever roaming and wandering in far off climes- 
               Never at rest- 
               Ever, ever, will-'o-the-wisp-like roaming from shore to shore- 
               The very dangers of his calling to him his greatest charm. 
               Followed by the shouting laughing members of their crew, Frank and Richard, wandered, with each a gun in his hand, over the rough uneven ice- 
               Ever and again losing sight of their vessel, as her hull and masts were hidden from view by intervening hillocks of ice, or bergs of various sizes, that reared themselves up at every turn, their glistening crystalite sides dazzling beautiful in the rays of the midday sun. 
               They were not however, the only denizens of this cheerless region. 
               Their loud talk had disturbed the "ancient, solitary reign" of an old inhabitant, who deemed that he had a pre-emption claim to the cold, cheerless waste. 
               A huge white bear. Wild with hunger, perhaps, had been for some days drifting and prowling on the ice, and now starved into savage fury made for them. 
               "Get ready, Richard. Fire between his eyes. By topsail sheet-blocks, I can see the glitter of his sparklers from here." 
               With gun levelled at the bear, Frank now advanced, his blood tingling with the excitement of the scene. 
               The bear, a large and fierce-looking brute, with a wild roar, now sprang towards his foes. 
                
               Anon, mingling with the roar from the beast's throat, was the ringing report of musketry- 
               Followed instantly after by a wild cry of horror- 
               Of terrified amaze- 
               The seamen of the Sea-Mew gazing spell-bound and horror-stricken upon a scene of danger in which was involved the lives of their leaders, to whom no human aid could be rendered. 
               At the moment that Richard and Frank fired, to their dismay and alarm, they felt the ice move beneath their feet. 
               Some yards in advance of their friends, they had, in their excitement of the chase, stepped over a fissure in the ice, that a moment after opened, and a huge floe, some mile in length, with a cracking grinding noise, parted altogether- 
               A wide strip of water now dividing the ice upon which stood the bear and the two young men from their terrified companions. 
               They were thus left alone to combat with the fierce denizen of the Polar regions. 
               No aid could reach them in time if they failed to conquer the savage bear, whose red eyes glared furiously upon them. 
               It was a moment of horror-of terror to all. 
               With nervous haste Frank again loaded his gun. 
               On came the bear towards them, a dark crimson stain marking his track upon the ice. 
               He had been wounded, then. 
               There was hope of escape. 
               Loud shouts of encouragement rang in the ears of the two companions in danger, as their friends made frantic haste and endeavors to join them. 
               But, with a shudder he could not repress, Frank saw that aid would arrive too late. 
               The animal was mad with hunger and rage. 
               Glaring wildly upon the beast (a white bear of the largest size), Frank raised his gun to fire, when, bounding forwards, it seized his friend in his grasp, and, with a wild roar, dragged his body over the ice towards the block upon which it had been first discovered. 
                
               The gun, knocked from Frank's hand as the brute rushed past him, exploded- 
               And his wretched doomed friend was hugged in the embrace of the hideous brute, carried each moment further from him. 
               With a cry of fury, he snatched up his gun, and despite all danger from a hand-to-hand conflict boldly rushed upon the ferocious monster. 
               For a moment his presence of mind was destroyed by his furious bravery-but in a second he thought of his pistol. He pressed it to the brute's head. It exploded-one fierce savage growl, and in death fierce and grim, the monstrous bear lay bleeding on the ice- 
               A round hole in the centre of the skull from which the blood was welling forth proclaiming how true and effective had been the shot. 
               Rising from the ice, he now discovered that beyond a few bruises he was none the worse for the conflict, and it being ascertained also that a tear in the left arm and a few scratches were the extent of Richard's injuries, the party, first skinning the bear and cutting up some of the meat, prepared at once to return to the ship, which they succeeded in reaching just as darkness began to fall upon the scene. 
               The account of the meeting with the bear, and the courage and daring of Frank, who had succeeded in saving the life of his companion, was alone the topic of converse that night on board the frozen-in vessel, the brave Sea-Mew, that lay as though bound up in iron in the waters of the Icy Deep. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               LOST IN THE DARK. 
               THE ensuing day Frank and Richard accompanied by four of the crew, left the vessel with a determination of carrying out that which had been attempted some hours before-namely the finding how far they were from the nearest shore. 
                
               It was a heavy darksome morning that the little party left the vessel, followed by many admonitions and warnings to be careful from the captain and those that remained behind. 
               It was with a strange nervous thrill that when he again left the ship he fancied he beheld a shadowing spectral form waving him back, whilst a voice seemed to whisper in his ears a warning to return. 
               The tones of the voice that he imagined rang in his ears he remembered well: they were none other than his beloved betrothed, his fair cousin, whom he left, despite her prayers, three months before, and now her soft whisperings sounded as though the fair girl was indeed beside him. 
               With difficulty shaking off the gloom that oppressed him from this effect of his imagination, he hurried from the ship, and, in company of Wardour and the sailors, at length dismissed the incident from his mind. 
               Only afterwards, when undergoing scenes of fearful trial and peril, did the young sailor recall the strange forebodings that had then pressed upon him. 
               But we have seen that with him to resolve was to act, no matter what danger might be in store. He had proposed to be one of the exploring party, and after this he would have been inflexible had his dead mother's shade risen from her grave to warn him back. 
               We have said the day was dark and gloomy, clouds veiled the vault above, no brightening rays from the sun lighting up the frozen deep. 
               All was wild wintry gloom. 
               A bitter blast, too, careered over the Frozen Deep- 
               A fierce northern wind, that not the thick fur wrappers of the little party could keep from chilling the very marrow in their bones. 
               Taking the lead, the friends, Frank and Richard, walked onwards over the frozen waters, the four seamen following close behind them. 
               For some little time, both wrapped in meditation, the two leaders of the little party walked across the ice-bound waters in silence, but at length, rousing himself from his reflections, Frank, who was not one to give way to thought in dismal imaginings of future ill, exclaimed- 
               "Well, Wardour, do you think we shall meet any bears today? Egad! 'twas a close shave with both of us yesterday." 
               "Ay, dear Frank, and but for you I had been now no more." The young man here wrung the hand of his companion with honest warmth, his voice trembling with emotion. 
               "Speak not of it, Wardour. It was but my duty. What! see a shipmate in the paws of a ravening brute and not pour a broadside into him? Frank Adersley would have deserved to have been shot had he so disgraced his calling and his name." 
               "Well, dear boy, I owe you my life, and may I forego an oath of terrible vengeance regist ered in heaven against one who has torn from me all I hold dear on earth if ever I forget that to you I now owe it I'm alive and well." 
               "Enough, Richard. Perhaps ere again we set foot on land you may rescue me from peril as imminent as that from which I saved you yesterday, and, as our dispositions seem strangely akin, let us here, upon the Frozen Deep, swear to each other eternal fidelity and friendship. The Divine Ruler above knows only what dangers may be in store for one or both ere we get quit of the fearful regions of eternal frost and snow." 
               Seizing Frank's hand with fervour, Richard Wardour, at his companion's suggestion, registered an oath never to forsake him to whom he owed his life, vowing brotherly love and eternal devotion whilst drawing the breath of existence. 
               "Be assured," he exclaimed, in conclusion, raising his right hand to the heavens above-"be assured, dear friend, that Richard Wardour will ne'er forget his oath. You shall find me true to the last-true unto death." 
               There upon the Frozen Deep the two young men registered the oath of friendship. How it was kept will be seen anon. 
               The four sailors who had accompanied them from the vessel now coming up, they hurried on, the little party proceeding for some hours with nought to intercept their journey over the sea of ice. 
               Nought but ice had they met with-ice and snow, ice and snow on all sides. 
                
               Nothing but ice. 
               Journeying on, Frank and Wardour presently are brought to a halt by a wild cry from the men, who had been for some little time wandering from the direct path taken by their leaders. 
               Joining the sailors, they discovered them gazing awe-stricken at a strange and terrible object lying in their path- 
               
                  A human skull!
                
               Lying beside a thick block of ice, the grim remains of mortality, with grinning jaws and white teeth, met the gaze of all. 
               A shudder crept through the frames of the sailors upon beholding the grotesque and hideous object. 
               How came it there? 
               Like the unfortunate discovered upon the iceberg, doubtless it was all that remained of some miserable mariner lost and doomed to perish in the frozen regions. 
               "Frank." 
               "Richard." 
               "This is terrible." 
               "There has been, some time back, a wretched crew of some lost ship habiting these regions." 
               "Doubtless," ejaculated Wardour in a fear, gazing upon the skull before him. 
               "It must have been so, else how came that terrible evidence here?" 
               "You are right. Yes, a crew like ours wrecked-the vessel buried, perchance, in the frozen deep. What horrors may the survivors from the lost ship have encountered!" 
               "What horrors indeed!" 
               "Come, let us away. The sight of yonder grinning skull is aught but a pleasant one, and we ice-bound in this terrible region. Come. See the men are whispering and glaring with fear and horror at the fleshless remains of the lost one." 
               Starting from a reverie into which he had fallen at the sight of the terrible skull, Frank now looked round and beheld the sailors, with gloomy countenances and blanched features, gesticulating and pointing the way they had come. 
                
               At length an herculean seaman, with bronzed features and scarred visage, stepping forward, exclaimed- 
               "Look here, lieutenant, me and the lads here are agreed as it's no mortal use crowding on all sail any further in this 'ere latitude. We fancy it will be best for all on us to 'bout ship and return at once to the Sea-Mew, or mayhap we may lose our blessed rudder, and, like that poor fellow whose skull lies before us, perish here on this infernal ice. We means returning to the ship, don't we, lads?" 
               "Right you are, Darker." 
               "'Bout ship!" 
               "Let us weigh anchor afore it's too late." 
               "Yes, yes. It's already getting dark, and it strikes me a night on the ice would about send us to Davy Jones." 
               "Right you is. Come on, lads, wear ship." 
               The sailors, about to hurry away, were for a moment restrained by the voice of Frank. 
               "Darker," exclaimed our hero addressing the tall seaman who had acted as spokesman-"Darker, listen to me, and not be carried away to commit a foolish act by sudden fear at sight of a human skull. Pshaw! man. You formerly of a vessel of war, and frightened at a glance of that!" 
               "Excuse me, lieutenant. It arn't the blessed skull, but our safety, as drove me to suggest a return to the Sea-Mew. We have left her behind some miles, darkness is falling upon us, her ladyship the moon arn't up to light us on our way back, and shiver me if we shan't be in for it if we don't pretty soon 'bout ship." 
               Glancing round him, Frank now found what, through the excitement, he had not before noted, that a heavy darkness was indeed falling upon the scene. Fearing that a night upon the Dismal Deep might be indeed perilous for them all, he at once gave word for their return. 
               In deep converse with Richard, Frank had not been heedful that they had come some miles over the ice. 
               Thick darkness now enveloped the scene. 
               Not a star was visible. 
               All was dark and drear- 
                
               Whilst the breeze, with its frost-laden breath, threatened death to those who dared brave its fury. 
               In fear and dismay they now attempted to retrace their steps. 
               For some miles they traversed in silence the rough ice, falling ever and anon over some huge block that lay in their path, as they hurried on with frantic haste. 
               "Frank, I fear we shall nover reach our ship to-night," exclaimed Wardour in alarm, gazing round, and endeavoring to pierce the inky darkness, 
               "Hold for a moment, and let us consult the men as to our best course." 
               Frank now, raising his voice, gave a loud hallo to the seamen, who had gone on ahead. 
               Receiving no reply, he again hailed them, his voice echoing strangely in the rude blast. 
               Save the howling of the fierce wind however, nought fell upon the ears of the two friends. 
               All was silence- 
               The silence of the grave. 
               No echoing shout replied to the loud hallo of the now thoroughly alarmed Frank. 
               Again and again his shouts rang upon the night air, over the frozen deep. 
               But, save the howling wind, nought could be heard in reply. 
               In horrified alarm the two young men now stood upon the ice, the fearful truth at the instant made apparent to both. 
               They were alone- 
               Alone on the Frozen Deep! 
               Alone in the inky darkness! 
               What was before them? 
               Death? 
               It seemed so. 
               Providence only could rescue them 
               The seamen of the Sea-Mew had wandered on, and missed them in the thick veil of night. 
               "God of heaven, Frank, this is awful. We are lost!" 
               "Ay. I fear me we shall never survive this night." 
               "You are right. Already the fearful blast seems freezing the life-blood in my veins, whilst a sense of delicious repose falls upon my senses. Well I know that this dread feeling of sleep is the fore-runner of death. Let us hurry on. We may yet, by the aid of a merciful Providence, reach our ship. Should our faltering footsteps guide us to the vessel, we are saved." 
               "Alas! what chance is there of such an event? We must be many miles away. I fear we are lost. But come, we will leave this spot. We will perish only when our strength will no longer allow us to proceed." 
               Hurrying on, the two wanderers journeyed for hours over the frozen waters. 
               Ever and again Richard, sinking upon the ice, besought Frank to leave him, but with nervous grip the latter would seize him by the arm, dragging him on, nor allowing his companion to fall a victim to the deadly sleep that weighed upon his eyelids. 
               At length a cry of joy escapes the lips of Aldersley 
               A cry that roused the sinking energies of his companion. 
               Staggering forward, he, with wild shouts, exclaimed, "We are saved! Dost discern yonder dark shadow through the thick veil of night? There, there, before us! It is our brave ship. Our unerring steps have led us safely back, and we have passed scatheless the fearful perils that enwrapped us." 
               Nerved to fresh strength by the exultant shouts of his companion, Richard Wardour, who had all but fallen a victim to the icy blast that careered over the frozen deep, now staggered forwards, halting with Frank beside an object that reared itself up in the darkness before them. 
               Wildly he now glared through the darkness of the night. 
               A cry of disappointment from the lips of Frank was not needed to tell the fatal truth. 
               It was no ship that reared itself up before the two lost ones. 
               No answering shout echoed theirs. 
               No light flashed in the air. 
               All was darkness. 
               All was silence. 
               The howling of the biting blast alone falling on the ear. 
               It was not their ship that loomed before the two wanderers. 
                
               Their wild frantic race had led them on shore. 
               They had halted beside a ruined log hut. 
               With a moan of despair, Richard Wardour sank insensible at the feet of his companion, who, with a cry of anguish, seized him in his arms, and, dragging him forwards, made his way through an opening in the building before them. 
               Frank now murmured a prayer of thankfulness to the Providence that had opened to them even this retreat. 
               For on making his way to the interior of the rude hut he found that its walls well kept out the biting blast from the frozen seas. 
               In comparison to the fierce frost they had braved upon the ice, the hut felt warm and cheerful. 
               An all-wise Providence, that had led them to the shelter of the lone hut, might eventually save them from perishing of cold or hunger in the frozen regions. 
               Laying the still senseless form of Wardour upon the flooring of the hut, the other now, snatching a flint and steel from his pocket, prepared to get a light. Succeeding after a few moments in his object, he next gathered together some rotten pieces of wood he found in the interior of the rude building, and in a few minutes had lit a fire, the ruddy glow of which cast a genial warmth through the place. Drawing his companion to the side of the crackling blazing timbers, he rubbed and chafed his hands, and presently had the pleasure of beholding him open his eyes. Lifting up a piece of the burning wood Frank now caused the fire to give out greater warmth, as some fresh pieces of the rotting timbers burst into a flame, lighting up with their glare the rude interior of the place. 
               "Where, where are we, Frank? What means this change?" 
               With a wild incredulous stare, Richard who had now recovered from the effects of the cold, staggered to his feet. 
               "It means, that we are saved." 
               "And this place?" 
               "Is a rude hut, doubtless built by some mariners ship-wrecked off this coast, years perhaps ago." 
               "And so a second time have you saved my life, my more than brother. But, God of heaven look there!" 
                
               With a wild cry of horror, Richard here pointed to the extreme corner of the hut. 
               Starting to his feet, Frank in alarm cast his eyes in the direction of his companion's trembling fingers. 
               A strange and inexplicable sight presented itself- 
               A sight that caused his blood to turn ice-like in his veins- 
               A sight that caused a shudder as of death to dart through his frame. 
               Kneeling beside a rude kind of grate in the corner of the hut was the figure of a man. 
               Garbed in a red Guernsey shirt, and wearing wide blue trousers of a Hollandish type, it was apparent that the kneeling stranger was a seaman. 
               Heedless of the two visitors, he stirred not- 
               But strangely watched some half-burnt pieces of wood lying in the grate before him. 
               Near this silent kneeling form, sitting upon a cask, with one hand resting upon a table and the other placed upon a paper, was a commanding-looking man, who, like his companion by the grate, stirred not, but appeared intent only on the letter before him. His attire was ancient. 
               The bright flashes of light from the fire made by Frank in the centre of the hut shone with a ruddy glow upon the two silent figures. 
               A mutual look of horror was exchanged by the two companions, who, in a hoarse whisper, ejaculated, as in a breath- 
               "They are dead!" 
               "Good God! See!" 
               Even as Frank uttered this exclamation of horror the figure by the grate fell, as by the wand of an enchanter, into dust upon the flooring of the hut. 
               Turning from the hideous spectacle, the eyes of the friends were cast to the stranger at the table. An exclamation of horror escaped them both. 
               He was no longer there. 
               Like the shadowy being at the grate, he had fallen into dust. 
                
               Staggering forward, Frank, with a shudder, picked up the piece of paper that lay upon the table. 
               Yellow with age the writing upon it was scarce discernible. 
               In horrified curiosity he now hastened to the fire. 
               Assisted by its light, he might be able to read the contents of the letter. 
               The two friends could almost hear the beating of their own hearts as they knelt beside the fire in the lone hut, with the dust of the departed lying near them, attempting to decipher lines penned ages before. 
               After some difficulty Frank read the following aloud:- 
               [There were seemingly two sets of lines, one in Dutch or similar character, the other in English of the ancient secretary hand. The latter, by dint of infinite attention ran somewhat as follows:] 
               
                  "Year of our L-a-i-fted-o. These seven traitorious and high-prized (by Satan) men of my crew this day putt me, Henry Hudson, liege officer of the States, my son, and the carpenter (on whom they had looked but sowerly the whole vyage, into the smalle bote, the which they cast off, without so much as the crumbs of the bread-breaker. I have seen my boy perish on the breast which had too little warmth to lend him more life, and I have forgiven them. I have seen my comrade, true despite the temptings of devils in shapes of hunger and pain, stiffin likewise by my side, and I have forgiven them. Forgiven them! in the belief that this agony of mine, humble discoverer, under God's guidance, of New Amsterdam and the boundless region it beyond, is but one of the blood-drops poured out freely to make the new land a blessed one in years to come. I lay down my ice-cold head in peace with man! Amen!"
                
               "Oh!" cried Wardour, "if an American had but discovered this, instead of us, think, if a man born on the banks of the noble stream called after this man of past centuries, had had this moment given him. For absent Americans, I uncover my head and bow to the unrewarded discoverer's dust!" 
                
               "All honor to it! and to his memory which lives, no doubt. Well, the wooden walls of this rude building, preserved by the very cold which destroyed its creators, will shield us from the icy blast without. But for its shelter I had been now, dear companion, alone. A few moments exposed to the frost-laden wind without would have for you ended all." 
               "What do you now propose?" 
               "To remain here." 
               "Here?" 
               "Ay, till dawn." 
               "And then?" 
               "We will endeavor to find our way back to the ship." 
               "If we fail to find her?" 
               "Return hither." 
               "To perish?" 
               "No; we may find some means yet to escape. Remember, I have my trusty gun, you a knife. Besides, we have the means of procuring light, and, we are thickly wrapped in fur, to protect us in some measure from the icy blast. Let us have courage, then, and we may yet o'erleap the precipice that yawns before us. And now to find more fuel, ere the fire burns out." 
               Leaving his friend standing by the smouldering embers. Frank left the hut and presently returned with some large pieces of wood that had apparently at one time formed the door of the building. 
               Breaking up some of the half-rotten planking, and placing it on the fire, a warm ruddy blaze once more lighted up the hut- 
               Casting strange shadows on the rough uneven wall. 
               The wind in wild gusts howled and raged without. 
               Bending over the cheerful blaze of the fire, and strengthened by a draught from a brandy flask, fortunately brought away the day before, they blessed Providence, that had led them to the lone hut out of the darkness and death-dealing blast without. 
               Engaged in tending the fire, Frank was suddenly startled from his pupose by Richard, who seized his arm and pointed to to the door. 
               "What is that?" 
                
               Expecting some fresh horror, an exclamation of terror escaped our hero's lips as he cast his glance in the direction indicated by Richard. 
               The entrance to the hut. 
               All was inky darkness without- 
               Thick and black- 
               Made more noticeable by the ruddy glare of the fire within. 
               For a few moments Frank noticed nothing alarming, though straining his eyes into the thick veil of night with earnest scrutiny. 
               But anon an ejaculation of fear escapes him- 
               Whilst the grip of his companion's hand fastens firmer on his arm. 
               In the inky darkness at the entrance of the hut Frank now beholds two bright red sparks- 
               Two burning beads of fire- 
               That glitter like stars- 
               Immovable and bright as polished steel. 
               Presently others approach. 
               There are dozens of the bright beads of flame dancing in the air at the entrance of the hut. 
               In the darkness gleaming like coals of fire! 
               Bright, lustrous, and powerful! 
               The entrance to the hut is alive with the burning beads of flame. 
               A death-like chill darts through the frame of Aldersley. 
               A cry of horror escapes his lips- 
               A cry echoed by his friend. 
               Both give up all as lost. 
               There is no means of escape from this new peril. 
               No hope. 
               None! 
               For a few moments, in wild despair, transfixed and speechless, they remain glaring at the entrance of the hut. 
               Nought can save them from a fearful death. 
               They are about to be attacked by bears. 
               Not one, but twenty or more of the fierce ravening brutes are grouped without- 
                
               Their deep angry growls sounding plainly in the still lone spot. 
               Anon the friends can discern the forms of the savage beasts looming through the darkness. 
               They enter not the hut. 
               What can deter them? 
               In whispering accents of terror, the companions ask one another for the cause that keeps their fierce foes at bay. 
               The fire burning brightly, as the fresh wood bursts into flame, lights up the rude hut, throwing strange shadows around. 
               Ah! the fire! 
               A cry of hope escapes the lips of the unfortunates. 
               They may yet escape. 
               "Richard, we are not yet lost. The fire, the ruddy glow of which has doubtless brought upon us this ravening horde of bears, may keep them from an attack. Whilst you feed the flames with fresh fuel, I'll see if a little powder and lead will not disperse our grim foes." 
               About to step forward, he was restrained by his companion. 
               "Frank!" 
               "What is it, man? Why do you stare upon me as though you would intimate all is at an end." 
               "All is at an end." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "Your gun." 
               "Well?" 
               "Is not in the hut." 
               "How?" 
               "You carried it with you when you went to find the wood for the fire, and you brought it not back." 
               "By Heavens! it it so. You are right. I remember I left it without. I placed it against the door while I searched around for fuel." 
               "Frank, my friend, all is over." 
               "Nay, say not so. We may yet escape. We have passed scatheless greater dangers than this. The fire will keep the savage brutes from an attack." 
               "Is that our only chance?" 
                
               "Well, yes, until daylight dawns. They will then disperse." 
               "And how long do you take it will be ere the darkness of the night gives place to light of day?" 
               "Some hours" 
               "Then we are lost." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "Our wood will be burnt out in less than half an hour from this. See the last we have to place upon the embers." 
               In wild despair the friends now gazed upon each other. 
               With a horrible thrill, as though his blood had turned to ice within him, Frank now saw the true peril of their fearful situation. 
               Richard was right. 
               The fire was even now dying low- 
               Strange shadows being thrown upon the rude walls of the hut. 
               Louder, more savage, grew the deep growls of their fierce foes. 
               In a confused mass they appeared at the entrance without. 
               "Frank, this is a fearful death." 
               "We may yet escape." 
               "No; impossible." 
               "I will make a dash to secure my gun." 
               "Madness! Think not of it. You would be torn to pieces ere you laid hand upon your weapon." 
               "But if we remain within the hut till the fire expires the wild horde will rush in upon us." 
               "Even so." 
               "You seem lost to hope." 
               "I see, no chance of escape." 
               "Let us each with burning brand in hand, dash to the door. We may scare them hence, and in their flight I may secure my trusty gun. Come, what say you?" 
               "Your plan, Frank, is worth the trial. Better die at once than remain here to be torn to pieces the moment darkness falls around us." 
               "Just so. Now seize that flaming ember, and follow me. You remember our oath?" 
                
               "Aye." 
               "To be true unto death." 
               "Yes, dear friend, and this night will we conquer our savage foes, or together, falling side by side, make our great leap in the dark." 
               "Bravely said, noble heart. Your hand. In a few moments death may claim us for its own." 
               There, in the centre of the lone hut, the companions, with pallid cheeks, wrung each other's hands ere they approached to probable death. 
               For what hope was there? 
               Why in the frenzy of despair, did they advance to the attack of the wild and ravenous Polar bears? 
               Well they knew that in a few moments the last pale flicker of yellow light from the now dying fire would expire. 
               And then! 
               "Wardour, are you ready?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Now then, flinch not, but let us both boldly rush among the ravening brutes that threaten our destruction. If I but secure my gun we may yet be saved." 
               In hoarse whispers the friends had uttered their ejaculations, and now, in frenzy and despair, with wild shouts, they darted forwards, whirling frantically the flaming brands they carried in their hands. 
               But scarce had they approached the door ere a huge dark form bounded in, hurling Wardour to the ground with fearful violence in its progress. 
               Frank, instead of rushing out amidst the angry surging mass that met his gaze, turned, and with a cry of fury dashed at a large bear, that, mad with hunger, and more daring than the rest, had bounded into the hut. 
               At the moment that he left the entrance the fierce brute made a spring at his advancing figure. 
               Instinctively he held forth before him his flaming wood. 
               The involuntary act saved his life. The wild animal making his spring, the burning brand met it full in the eyes, and, with a roar of agony and terror, the beast dashed away. 
                
               Staggering to his feet, Richard, catching up a last remnant of the fire, followed by Frank, once more rushed to the entrance. 
               In wild fury and terror they now attacked their fierce foes. 
               Looming in the thick darkness they beheld a huge mass of heaving forms. 
               Deep angry growls sounded in their ears. 
               Wildly they fought with their fierce antagonists- 
               Each moment expecting to be dragged to the ground, as final darkness fell upon the hut. 
               They are presently surprised by a sudden glare of light. 
               With deep roars and angry growls the confused heaving mass retreat back into the darkness. 
               Frank and his friend are alone. 
               For the moment they are saved. 
               In frenzied excitement Frank glances around for his gun. 
               An exclamation of dismay escapes him. 
               By the light, that now has increased, he perceives his valued weapon lying by the door. 
               But now no longer of service. 
               The stock is torn from the barrel, even the very iron is bent and torn. 
               Seized by one of their fearful assailants, the gun has been snapped to pieces like a reed. 
               For a moment, dazed and lost to all by this fresh calamity, Frank has paid no heed to the repeated ejaculations of the other who now, leaving the hut, drags his companion with him. 
               The darkness of the night is anon dispersed by a broad yellow light- 
               That gathers each moment brighter-fiercer. 
               Presently all around is bathed in a reddened glow. 
               In wild dismay, Frank glances at the scene before him- 
               Whilst a burning crackling noise sounds in his ears- 
               The light each minute growing brighter-stronger. 
               The hut is on fire! 
               Their refuge from the biting blasts-from the icy deep-is being reduced to ashes before them. 
               A funeral pyre is blazing over the remains of the illustrious dead discovered by Frank. 
                
               Brighter-fiercer grows the light. 
               Showers of sparks now shoot up in the air. 
               Round the immediate spot all is bright as day. 
               With a shudder, Frank, glancing in a direction pointed out by Richard, observed a wild mass of forms heaving to and fro in the belt of darkness beyond the reach of the light from the burning hut. 
               Well he knows what is there. 
               A crowd of the wild and savage Polar bears, who the moment the fire dies out will rush upon their victims. 
               Bravely burns the old ruined hut, lighting up, with lurid glare, the wild frozen region. 
               The wind, in blustering gusts, whirls ever and anon myriads of sparks up in the air, that, circling in fantastic eddies in the darkness, add to the strange wild scene. 
               In despair, and lost to all hope, the friends gaze silently at the burning ruin before them. 
               Ever and again turning their heads, they glance at the darkness beyond, a shudder darting through their frames and ejaculations of terror escaping their lips. 
               Paler, paler grows the light. 
               The burning rafters of the rude building now, with a crash, fall in. 
               There is a bright cloud of sparks- 
               A last flash of light. 
               Then all is darkness- 
               A few charred and smouldering embers being all that remains of the log hut. 
               For a moment all is silence- 
               Broken anon by a strange rushing sound as of the moving of a large body. 
               Dimly perceivable by the faint ray from the smouldering charred remains of the hut are two human forms. 
               With clasped hands the two friends await their hideous doom. 
               "Frank, all is over." 
               "Farewell, Richard. We shall meet anon." 
               "Good! yes. See, see, they come." 
                
               "Ay, like a crowd of devils thirsting for our blood." 
               "This a hideous death." 
               "It is fate. Let us meet it like men." 
               "We will. God bless you! They are upon us. Farewell!" 
               "Farewell! And now for death! Clara, canst see now? If so, pray for the victim of fate." 
               A dark mass nears the ruins of the hut- 
               Low angry growls sounding in the air. 
               "God of heaven! what's that?" 
               "Hullo! hullo!" 
               A wild scream escaped his lips as the strange shout sounded in his ears. 
               "Ha! ha! ha! Saved! saved! But see, see, our grim foes are upon us! Beat them back! Too late, we are lost. See, see, Wardour, the red eyes glaring at us, Wardour! Wardour why do you not answer? God, he is dead! They tear him limb from limb! I can save him not. Have at thee, thou fiery-eyed devil! Ha! ha! That was a brave shot. Clara! Clara! canst thou, with thy second sight, behold me now? Yes, yes, I am answered. I see thee. There-there by the Raven's Tower! But what is this? The wild denizens of the Polar regions touch me not-they fly before me. Wardour give your gun. How the bullets whiz in the air! Behold the ravenous beasts fly from before us! We are saved, saved!" 
               With a wild shriek, Aldersley now sunk to the ground, unconscious of a crowd of human forms that gathered round him. 
               "Is he dead?" 
               "Have the cussed varmint run him on a reef?" 
               "Where's Wardour?" 
               "There, by the fire." 
               "How is he?" 
               "Coming to." 
               "Give me that brandy, mate." 
               "All right. Well, to think as how that beacon should light us to their side." 
               "We were just in time." 
               "Another moment, and they have slipped their cable. 
                
               "Well, anyhow, cook John Want, we shan't be hard up for bears' meat." 
               "No, bad luck to the piratical beasts! But where' the cap'n?" 
               "He'll be here in a moment. I left him on the rock and clapped on all sail. And, good luck to my old timbers, it were well I did, or these poor lads would have gone on their last cruise by this. But a clapper on your jawing tackle, Fred Darker here comes the skipper." 
               "How now, lads? Were you in time to rescue them from their fearful peril?' exclaimed the captain of the Sea-Mew who now appeared on the scene. 
               "Oh! yes, yer honor. We poured a broadside into the enemy, and they hauled down their colors, beating a retreat. Topsail sheet blocks, yer honor, I never seed so much bears' meat in my life before. It were a mercy we saw the reflection made by the burning hut, or we should have returned to the ship without meeting those we came arter, who, I calculate, by this time would have been well on their voyage to the other world. Howsomever, yer honor, we have saved them from a fearful fate; and, by yer honour's leave, we will now get the poor lads safe on board." 
               "Ay, ay, Want. The brave boys must want rest after their fearful sufferings. Carry them at once to the vessel. How is it with you, Frank, lad? Cheer up, All danger is passed. You have struggled through the breakers and are now in safety. Come, we will at once to the good ship, for there are those on board would anxiously know if we have been successful in coming up with you." 
               For a few moments, as if unconscious of the captain's presence or that of his comrade, our hero stared in wild amaze around him. 
               "Where-where am I?" 
               "In safety. Do you not know me?" 
               "Captain Ebsworth?" 
               "The same." 
               "Great Heavens! then all-all was a hideous dream." Staring round at the eager faces of his companions, he suddenly ly started to his feet, and, pointing to some huge grim bodies that, lying in gore, surrounded them, he exclaimed, "Yet, no, no, 'twas no dream. The burning hut, the attack by the fierce and maddened brutes, the wild denizens of the frozen regions, the Polar bears-all was too true. And Wardour, where is he?" 
               "Here, by Providence, with yourself, saved from a horrible death." 
               "Stepping forward, Richard seized the hand of his friend, who in stupefied amaze gazed incredulously round him. 
               "But, great Heavens, what means it? How-when were we saved?" 
               "A few words, will explain all," exclaimed the captain, "and as you are apparently sufficiently recovered to hear me, I will tell you how, by aid of the Divine Power above, we were led hither to rescue you from your hideous peril. Your comrades who with you left the vessel yesterday, returning late with the intelligence that you were lost on the ice, I at once called the crew on deck, and asked for volunteers to join me in a night search. All would have followed, but, picking out six of the best hands, and arming ourselves well, we started on our path. Shouting loudly as we made our way over the icy deep, we every few minutes sent a rocket up in the air to give you notice of our coming. But no reply answered our cries, and, in terror for your fate, we hurried on across the frozen deep, determined to keep up the search till the dawn of the following day should fall upon us. It was after we had traversed the icy deep thus for some hours that we were suddenly startled by a bright red glow in the sky before us. Supposing it was a reflection in the heavens common in these northern latitudes, we took no particular note of the incident, but presently, as we journeyed on, we found that we were nearing the spot from whence proceeded the light, and a shower of sparks darting up in the murky darkness of the night convinced us we were close to those of whom we were in search. It was as I was giving the command to the hands to hurry on that we were startled by a loud cry for help. In wild haste, and uttering shouts of encouragement to proclaim to you their approach, your comrades rushed forward to find you battling with a score of bears in front of the burning ruin, the flames of which had been the beacon that warned us of your vincinity. Dispersing the savage brutes, we were just in time to rescue you from a fearful doom, by falling victims to their hideous fangs. But by the mercy of Providence you have been saved. And now, Frank, let us to the vessel. Day is breaking, and we have, I take it, some miles to go ere we anchor again alongside our frozen-in ship. Come, lads, forward. Press on all sail, and when we return we will have a double allowance of grog, and a day of rest to honour the escape of the brave lads from the ravening jaws of the Polar bears." 
               With loud hurrahs, the sailors, gathering round Frank and Richard, prepared to leave the spot, but not before laden with a good supply of bears' meat. 
               A few hours afterwards they reached in safety the brave ship, being received with stentorian shouts and cheers by those on board. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE FATED WANDERERS. 
               TWO months have elapsed since the incidents related in our last chapter. 
               Two months-two weary months of suffering and privation to the lone voyagers in the Arctic regions. 
               Two months that have appeared interminable in their length to the mariners of the frozen-in vessel, the Sea-Mew. 
               Time, with leaden wings, has passed slowly by to the seamen of the unfortunate vessel that, like part and parcel of the icy deep, remains fixed firmly in the frozen waters. 
               With gloomy brows, the lone mariners now ask of each other, will they ever with life escape from the frozen regions? 
               Their good ship remaining as immovable as one of the massive icebergs between which it stands- 
                
               Hope now begins to leave the stoutest hearted seaman on board the vessel- 
               For their provisions will no longer hold out. 
               Death apparently stares them in the face. 
               The morning is a bright and sunny one- 
               The orb of day glittering like a round shield of burnished copper in the sky above- 
               Its rays giving no heat, however, in that region of ice, but only serving to mock the lone and starving mariners by its bright and cheerful light. 
               The ship's bell has just given out midday, when there is a call for all on board to come up on deck. 
               Standing by the poop is Captain Ebsworth, sorrowful, and with a look of care and pain upon his features. 
               Even he begins to fear the end. 
               The men, with wan features, and shivering (depite their thick clothing) in the icy blast, stand upon the deck, with eyes that bespeak nought but despair. 
               Aldersley and Wardour, with folded arms and downcast features, stand by the side of the captain. 
               To all on board hope seems alike to have departed. 
               "Seamen of the Sea-Mew, brave lads and true-" (The captain's voice was thick and husky as he began to address the group upon the deck, his quick eye noted the disappearance of several whom the fearful regions had some little time before singled out for death. Conquering his emotion, that had compelled a pause, he at length went on.) "Seamen of the Sea-Mew, the moment of severest trial has come. Our stores have sunk so low that if we longer remain inactive nought is before us but starvation. I perceive, with heartfelt sorrow, our ranks already fearfully thinned, many bold hearts that left their native shores on this perilous voyage having cruised' at the call of their Maker to the heavens aloft. We now have scarce enough hands on board, were our good ship released from the icy deep to-morrow, to man her safely through the waters, and but a little time hence there will be no article of food left for us in the vessel. In this extremity I have called all hands on deck. The moment for action has arrived." 
                
               "Ay. Let us quit the ship." 
               "It's no good sticking to her." 
               "Go ashore." 
               "Better death on land than here." 
               "Hold, men! Hear me!" The captain's voice rang loud and clear above those of the excited sailors, who with wild shouts had interrupted him. "Hold, my lads. I have a better plan than that proposed by any of you. It would advantage us not for all to quit the ship. We are ice-bound, I find, off the coast of Novazembla. From the shore discovered by Aldersley and Wardour we are but distant a few miles. Once there I believe that it cannot be far to the nearest fur settlement. I propose for two of the hands to make the trial of reaching it. Should they fail, we can but meet our fate. Should they, however, succeed, they can return with food and help to save us all." 
               "But who's to go?" 
               "It's death." 
               "Who'll volunteer?" 
               "Who's for the nearest fur settlement?" 
               "It is a good plan, but where's the two who will stand their chance?" 
               The loud ejaculations of the excited seamen now ceased. 
               But none offered to undertake the perilous journey. 
               All was grim and silent. 
               Again the captain's voice (whilst a hushed stillness wrapped all around) sounded on the deck. 
               "I have a plan which will, I think, answer satisfactorily to all. It is agreed that my project is a good one?" 
               "Ay, ay." 
               "But none like to chance the trip?" 
               "It is nearly sartin death." 
               "No two care to risk the chances to save the rest?" 
               "It can't be done." 
               "Yes." 
               "How, captain. 
               "Why, let us cast lots-decide with dice-the two that threw the lowest to undertake the journey." 
                
               "Right. Let it be so." 
               "Ay, ay. Ready with the dice." 
               "Belay with that barrel there." 
               "Easy does it." 
               In a wild excited crowd the sailors now drew a barrel forwards, and, placing it by the mainmast, gathered round in breathless silence, awaiting the arrival of the man sent below for the dice. 
               It was a strange scene. 
               A game of life or death was about to take place. 
               Despite the horrible prospect of starvation looming before them, none cared after all to leave the ship. 
               All saw the advantage of the captain's proposition. 
               Yet none cared to undertake the perilous journey in search of aid. 
               The man now appearing with the dice, all was a hushed silence. 
               In turn each now took his throw, those gathered around watching eagerly for the numbers that turned up. 
               "You're out of it, Bateson." 
               "Who's next?" 
               "Now, Darker." 
               "Look alive, yer lubber." 
               "Clear away; it's Wardour's turn." 
               "Three!" 
               "He's one booked for the trip." 
               "Now who's the next? Now, Sammy Dunk." 
               "Good; you're out of it." 
               With eager countenances the crew of the frozen-in ship gazed upon the last two to throw- 
               Frank Aldersley and the man Tom Handsail. 
               Breathless the seamen gazed upon them. 
               Handsail at Frank's request, threw first-nine being the number given. 
               Frank, indifferent as to the result, carelessly shook the dice and threw six!
                
               The two that had thus thrown the lowest numbers being himself and his friend Wardour. 
                
               "Frank!" 
               "Richard!" 
               "Once more alone we are about to journey through the region of ice and snow." 
               "To save our comrades or perish in the attempt." 
               "Right, brave heart." 
               "And we shall succeed in our enterprise, Richard. A voice seems whispering in my ears that, despite the dangers to be encountered in our perilous journey, we shall yet overcome them, saving at once our comrades and ourselves." 
               "We shall succeed or perish." 
               Gripping each other by the hand, they stood surrounded by the sympathizing members of the crew, the majority of whom gazed upon them as doomed men. 
               Frank now gave orders for the different articles they were to take with them, declaring his intention to quit the vessel without delay. 
               No persuasion of the captain or the crew could prevail upon him to forego his departure till the morrow. 
               In the determination to leave at once he was joined by Wardour. 
               Half an hour after the strange scene upon the deck they left the vessel on their perilous journey- 
               A journey of life or death to all. 
               Crowding the bulwarks, the seamen watched the figures of the two friends so strangely fated again to encounter fresh perils. 
               Long the shouts of the seamen rang in the ears of the companions as they journeyed on over the ice. 
               Twice or thrice the wanderers turned and waved their hands. Then, as the seamen of the Sea-Mew grew at length but as dim specks in the distance, Frank and Richard began to realise their position. 
               They were again alone. 
               On they journeyed, the vessel at last disappearing from sight. 
               At length they set foot on shore. 
               The sun now disappeared in the horizon. 
               But why do they simultaneously utter a cry of horror- 
                
               Gazing round in terror at the wild spot at which they have halted? 
               Behind them is the Frozen Deep. 
               Before them, as far as the gaze can penetrate, snow-covered rocks and dark bleak barren wastes meet their view. 
               But that which so enchams their attention is the charred and blackened remains of a former rude dwelling that had stood in that frozen region. 
               Gazing into each other's faces with looks of horror and alarm, they stood for many minutes, nor attemped to hurry on. 
               With horror they stood statue-like, rooted to the spot. 
               They had unconsciously halted by the charred and blackened remains of the ruined hut. 
               At the place where two months before they had been rescued from a terrible fate. 
               Recovering from their horror and amaze, the companions at length, with exclamations of terror, hurried from the spot, despite the fall of night, continuing their journey- 
               The stars that glittered diamond-like in the blue vault above their only guide across the bleak frozen waste. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               BURIED ALIVE. 
               IT was perhaps some three hours after they had left the vicinity of the ruined hut that Frank and his companion, afraid of proceeding further in the darkness of the night, came to a halt. 
               Throwing the parcels they had been carrying (consisting of a few provisions to help them on their journey) at their feet, they now endeavored to make themselves acquainted with their place of bivouac. 
               "We want no bears to-night, Wardour," exclaimed Frank, with a forced laugh. 
               "Well, no. But, considering we are well armed, one would be a guest I would welcome. A ham would serve us in good stead," ejaculated Wardour. 
                
               "Hullo!" 
               "What is it?" 
               "Well, I fancy I've found a sung retreat for the night." 
               "Another hut?" 
               "Not exactly. Come here." 
               "All right. Why, in Heaven's name, what are you doing?" 
               Reaching his side, Richard now found the other fast disappearing from his sight- 
               Apparently into the earth at his feet. 
               "Come on, Richard, it's all right. Follow me. 
               "But where are you going?" 
               "Into a warm retreat from the piercing tempest that blows without." 
               The voice of Frank, who had now disappeared from sight, sounded strange and hollow to the ears of Wardour. 
               Perceiving a large opening in a rock that rose from the ground some four feet in height, the latter unhesitatingly, at the request, proceeded to scramble into the dark opening before him. 
               To his surprise, he discovered that he was entering a small cave. 
               As he gradually drew his body through the opening a faint glimmering light shone in the strange retreat. 
               Looking round, he perceived his friend, light in hand, standing in the centre of the cave. 
               There was just sufficient room to stand upright. 
               Staring round in surprise, Wardour exclaimed, with a satisfied smile- 
               "Well, this beats the hut. There's no bears, and no ghastly remains, either. Come, this is an improvement. Egad! this is a fair omen of success upon our errand-a safe warm retreat from the awful tempest opened to us at the very commencement of our journey. But, confound it, how did you find it out?" 
               "I discovered the opening in the rock, as I threw down my load, and made up my mind to enter, provided it would admit me." 
                
               "But, good Heavens, suppose there had been a bear inside? You would have been torn to pieces." 
               "I was prepared for all contingencies. This trusty blade would have served me well, I doubt not." Frank here drew forth a large knife from his vest; then, holding high the small piece of taper he had lighted, he next took a survey of their retreat. 
               Discovering no signs of aught likely to disturb them, he then made his way through the rude opening, and reappeared, dragging with him the articles they had left behind. 
               Sitting now at the furthest corner of the little cavern, the companions partook sparingly of some food, and then, moistening their lips with some brandy from a flask carried by Frank, prepared to pass the night in their snug resting-place. 
               All was still and quiet in that lone retreat. 
               Save the howling of the fierce northern blasts without nought could be heard. 
               Surrounded by inky darkness, the light burning out, sat the two friends in that lone cavern in the Arctic regions. 
               Wrapped in thought, each recalling remembrances of home to his mind, for some time the companions observed strict silence. Frank, at last, the first to break it, exclaimed- 
               "Well, Wardour, it appears that neither of us at the moment can court repose. What say you to tell me the secret kept looked hitherto safely in your breast? Come, you promised to make me acquainted some day with the cause that led you to leave, somewhat suddenly, your comfortable home, upon this perilous voyage to these inferna. Arctic regions." 
               "It is but the old story, Frank," ejaculated the other, with a sigh. 
               "The old story, eh? A faithless mistress? Is it so? Pshaw! the woman does not live that should cause me to rush broken-hearted from my native shores, praying for death in foreign lands." 
               "Perchance you have never loved." 
               "Never loved? There is a beautiful creature now in England who nightly offers up her prayers for the absent one, Richard, and I love this girl as my life." 
                
               "And would die for her?" 
               "Even so." 
               "Then what would you do if she bestowed her love upon another?" 
               "Impossible." 
               "Nought is impossible with woman." 
               "But I would stake my very existence upon the truth of her whom I love-her to whom I am betrothed." 
               "So would I have done, and should have lost." 
               "You were jilted, then?" 
               "Ay; the tale is short, and quickly told. Some two years back I met with a fair young creature, with whom I fell, as it is termed, in love. My passion was no boyish one, but firmly fixed, rooted in my heart. I gained an introduction to the object of my desire, and became more than ever infatuated with the charming flirt. For some months I paid my court to her, all but gained her consent to become my bride, when the fair demon that had enslaved me in her fetters at last shook me off for another." 
               "She must have been a worthless coquette, and deserves not a regret." 
               "That may be. But still, so firmly seated was my passion that I could not erase her image from my mind, and even now I find that, though recalling her faithlessness to my memory, I cannot, as I would wish, feel within my bosom a sentiment of hate equal to the love I formerly bore her. But woe, to the man who robbed me of her! I have registered a vow of vengeance I will keep to the letter should we ever meet." 
               "Know you the rival that snatched the traitress from you?" 
               "No. Though I had my fingers once on his very throat, I know him not." 
               "How?" 
               "Even so." 
               "But how was this?" 
               "It happened thus. I was passing a lone spot late one summer night, and seeing that the heavens portended a storm, made for the shelter of a ruined tower ere it should burst upon me. Hurrying forwards, I was, upon reaching a slight copse, transfixed with fury by beholding the girl for whom I would have given life in the arms of another. Oh! may you never know the misery I endured at that moment! A mist of blood appeared to drift before me. With a cry of rage, I rushed forward as the threatening storm burst forth. All was darkness, dark as in this cave. I heard a loud report, and, by this, was made aware my accursed rival had fired upon me. I met him on the hillside, we gripped each other in the deadly grasp of hate, and, writhing like serpents, rolled from the summit of the hill to the copse below. Stunned and bleeding, I lay for a few moments lost to all around, then, rising, and discovering nought but the old tower in the murky blackness of the night, I shook my clinched fist at the blue forked lightning, vowing by its glare to be even with him who had torn Clara Burnham from me." 
               "What name? Great Heaven, you are mad! This is some trick. The name you have breathed but now is that of my loved cousin, she to whom I am betrothed." 
               "Say you so? Then you are that man that stood that summer night by the Raven's Tower." 
               "The Raven's Tower? Yes. But, Richard carry this cruel jest no further." 
               "'Tis no jest. Frank Aldersley. Know, I am the man to whom your cousin plighted her troth. I have vowed a deadly vengeance against the rival who tore her from me, and, by the fiends below, I'll keep my oath." 
               With a cry of fury, Richard Wardour seized his astounded companion by the throat and hurled him to the ground. 
               Anon the sound of a fierce struggle woke up the silence of the cave. 
               A moment's pause. 
               Then again deep-breathed exclamations of fury resound in the darksome cavity. 
               "Loose your hold, for Heaven's love. I would harm you not Richard. Dost so soon forget our oath of friendship? God of heaven! what's that?" 
               There was a loud crash, a sound as of falling earth, then all was still. 
                
               For a few moments all is silence in the darksome cave- 
               Broken at length by the sound of a human voice- 
               A voice thick and husky with terror. 
               "Richard, where are you? Speak, man! He answers me not. What means this fearful stillness? How dark, too, it has grown! No longer can I discern the dim glimmer from without. Great Heavens! can my wretched rival be dead? Yet no. I harmed him not. He has doubtless left the cave, and I am alone! I will follow him. Yes, yes, I will at once quit this fearful place." Groping his way blindly in the thick darkness, Frank now endeavoured to find the opening by which he had entered. But in vain. 
               Nought but rock and earth met his outstretched hands at every turn. 
               Ever and again he called upon his friend, but no reply gave token that he was still in the cave. 
               All was silence-the silence as of the grave. 
               Cold drops of fear now gathered upon the brow of the daring young seamen as, for the second time, he began to carefully make a circuit round the cavernous recess, feeling with his hands against the rough uneven surface of its walls, in search of the opening by which a short time before he had entered. 
               "Great Heavens! what can it mean?" he gasped, as, faint and sick with fear of he knew not what, he groped slowly and carefully round his prison-house. "Richard must have left me. This continued silence is a surety of that. I shall go mad if I get not presently from this place. I must escape. But what is this hideous truth that begins to force itself upon me? I remember this piece of rock, that now I encounter beneath my feet, laid at the very entrance to the cave. But the opening-the means of exit without-I cannot now find. All is a mass of earth and broken rock. I see it all. The fearful truth is forced upon my maddened brain. That crash that sounded in my ears as I struggled with my frenzied rival is now explained. We are buried alive!" 
               Giving utterance to his thoughts aloud, Frank was startled by a voice that echoed his last fearful ejaculation. 
               "Buried alive!" 
                
               How the terrible words sent the blood rushing in a torrent through the veins, a cold icy chill, as of death, pervading the frame! 
               "Frank! Frank! Friend! brother! we are lost! Let us not die in enmity. Where-where is your hand? Let me grasp it. And say-oh! say you forgive me for the past." 
               In trembling sorrowful accents the voice of his unfortunate friend sounded in the ears of Frank, who, with a cry of joy, hastened forwards, and presently, stretching out his arms, encountered those of the wretched Wardour. 
               At all events he was not alone. 
               His friend yet lived- 
               Lived!-and in a voice choking with emotion vowed not again to forget his oath of friendship- 
               To be true unto death. 
               "I was mad, Frank, but now," he exclaimed. "I was driven for a moment to frenzy at the remembrance of the past. But we will speak no further upon this. Should we escape from our present dreadful peril. I will prove dear friend and brother, that I am not forgetful that to you I owe my life, and you shall find me true to the end. But I fear all is over with us. How can we get hence? The way by which we entered is blocked up against us, is it not?" 
               "Ay. Richard. As firm as though bound with iron is the rock and earth that has fallen by the opening of the cave. We are doomed." 
               "Buried alive?" 
               "Even so." 
               "God of heaven! what a fearful death!" 
               "Yes, a terrible finish to our sufferings. Better had we fallen a prey to the ravening bears-better have perished in the flames of the ruined hut, or been entombed in the frozen waters of the icy deep, than die thus in this horrible cave a death of lingering torture, our fate for ever hidden from all on earth." 
               "It is indeed a fearful doom. But do you not think our united strength might force an opening without?" 
               "Alas! no. The mass of earth and rock that has fallen by the entrance could never be moved by hand of man." 
                
               "Then we are lost!" 
               "Even so." 
               "Buried alive!" 
               "Yes, dear friend. But thank Heaven we are prepared to perish as we have lived, true friends to the last." 
               "Ay, dear Frank, true unto death. But hark. What in Heaven's name is that?" 
               "I hear nothing." 
               "Listen! Some living thing is entombed with us in this fearful cave." 
               "I hear nothing. You are deceived." 
               "No. Hark!" 
               An ejaculation of terror and surprise now escaped the lips of Frank. 
               Distinctly audible to his ears was a strange puffing blowing noise- 
               As of the deep laboured breathing of some animal. 
               What did it mean? 
               Was it within the cave or without? 
               Had some beast that had used the place for its den returned to find the entrance sealed against it? 
               This might be so. 
               And yet each moment the strange puffing noise seemed to near the prisoners, as though some living thing was about entering the cave itself. 
               "Frank, what do you think of this? I dare to entertain hope of release." 
               "How?" 
               "Why, I believe there is a means of quitting our dreadful prison-house." 
               "Impossible." 
               "I think otherwise. Hark!" 
               The strange blowing puffing sound that had so startled them now seemed close beside them. 
               Yet could their straining eyeballs detect nought through the inky darkness. 
               All was a black impenetrable veil. 
                
               "Frank, have you your gun and knife ready, in case of a surprise?" 
               "Ay. But what can assail us here? You are led away by hope of escape. Be assured there is no means of leaving this fearful cave." 
               "You are deceived." 
               "How?" 
               "Do you not feel a rush of cold air upon your face when turned to that part of the cave at our backs, which is directly opposite the way by which we entered?" 
               "Well, yes. What then?" 
               "Listen, and you will find that the strange mysterious noise that startled us a few minutes ago sounds from this very quarter." 
               "You are right. What can it mean?" 
               "That there is some passage or opening at the back of the cave. 
               "But we discovered none when first we entered, and a small piece of taper by means of which we cast a pale glimmer through the inky darkness is now lost to us. I have searched in vain, and cannot find it." 
               "No matter. We will prosecute our search without it. Let the strange noise that now so plainly sounds in our ears be our guide. Come, follow me to the further end of the cave." 
               Led to entertain some slight hope from the confident voice of his companion, Frank groped his way beside him. 
               A cry of alarm presently escaped the lips of Wardour. 
               In choking accents of despair he exclaimed- 
               "The Will-o'-the-wisp that deluded me with hope has vanished. We are lost." 
               "What mean you? Is there, then, no opening in the walls of the cavern?" 
               "No." 
               "But from whence comes the rush of air that, stooping down, I now feel plainly with icy chill upon my face? There must be some entrance way for it." 
               "Yes, at our feet." 
               "At your feet!" 
                
               "Ay. Another step, and I should have disappeared in a yawning gap that now opens before me. Put out your hand. You will find it grasps nought but space." 
               "Heavens! Richard, you are right. But how did I escape this fearful cavity when I searched a few minutes back around the cavern for the way by which we had entered?" 
               "I know not. Doubtless, in your terror, your examination of the cave was only a cursory one. If otherwise, you must have discovered this opening, or fallen a victim to it in the dark." 
               "How plain that mysterious noise now sounds in our ears! Do you know, I don't yet give up all hope." 
               "But we dare not trust ourselves to leap the yawning cavity. It might be instant death-our bodies falling bruised and mangled a fearful depth below." 
               "And yet it may be only a few feet beneath. We might with safety alight upon our feet." 
               "A hideous chance." 
               "Less hideous, think you, than to remain here in this fearful cave?" 
               "Well, no." 
               "You will be guided, Richard, by me?" 
               "Assuredly, dear friend." 
               "To remain here is certain death." 
               "Ay, a slow, torturing, and fearful one." 
               "If we decide to lower ourselves down this cavity Providence may ordain that we alight upon our feet in safety." 
               "Right. Therefore do I, with you, think that we should risk all." 
               "If we fail we can but perish. To remain here is death." 
               "A dreadful one! At once, let us make our perilous descent. Stand aside. I will go first." 
               "Hold!" 
               "What would you?" 
               "I have thought of a means that may give us a clue to the depth below." 
               "Indeed? Pray Heaven you may succeed in your design. 
               "Fetch me the guns." 
                
               "They are here. I carried them with me when we left the other end of the cavern." 
               "'Tis well. Give me one. And now, as I hurl it into the dark abyss before us, do you strain your hearing to catch the faintest sound that may follow its descent." 
               "Good. We shall then have a guide to the depth before us." 
               "Hark!" 
               Leaning over the cavity, upon the brink of which they were kneeling, Frank let fall his gun. Both awaited the echo of the fall. 
               All was silence. 
               Peering into the opaque darkness, they endeavored to pierce the inky gloom to catch sight of any form or substance below, but in vain. 
               All was black as a funeral pall, and silent as the grave itself. 
               The mysterious noises that a short time before had directed them to the spot now had ceased. 
               "Well, Frank, your plan has failed, and I own I shudder at trusting myself into the fearful gulf before us." 
               "What alternative have we?" 
               "None." 
               "Just so. Therefore, as bold men rushing to the cannon's mouth, let us at once decide our fate." 
               "Lead on. I'll follow." 
               "Are you ready?" 
               "Yes." 
               "God have mercy on us!" 
               "Frank, farewell." 
               "The Lord may yet save us, brave-heart." 
               With a spasmodic shudder, and a tightening sensation at the chest, Aldersley, who had been clinging with his hands to the edge of the abyss, over which a moment before he had lowered himself, suddenly let go. 
               With a rush, he descended through the air into space. 
               Even in the thick darkness he was conscious of another form whirling beside him. 
               And in a second of time he seemed to reach the earth. 
               Bruised and shaken, but not seriously injured. 
                
               As he staggered to his feet the voice of Wardour sounded in his ears, uttering prayers of thankfulness for their escape. 
               The earth upon which they had fallen was soft and damp. 
               Had it been otherwise, serious consequences might have ensued from the height they had fallen-as near as they could judge, some thirty feet. 
               Scarcely had they time to gaze around them ere again the same noise that had startled them in the cave sounded in their ears. 
               And now close beside them. 
               A huge object looming before them in the darkness. 
               The strange blowing snorting noise grew louder and louder. 
               Presently followed by the tramping of feet. 
               The animal, whatever it was they had surprised, was taking flight. 
               Feeling upon the moist earth around them, they, after a few moments, found their guns, and with ejaculations of joy started in pursuit of the creature before them. 
               The beast would doubtless lead them into safety. 
               The same thought entered the minds of both as they, gun in hand, rushed along the underground way in pursuit of they knew not what. 
               The puffing, blowing, and snorting noise, with heavy tramps, that sounded ahead, was a sure guide to them in their chase. 
               Onward they traversed the strange underground way, anon a thin faint dim ray of light denoting an exit from the place. 
               Their eyes accustomed to the darkness, the two companions now discerned that they had been hurrying along a huge cavern some quarter of a mile or more in length, and as they, with a prayer of thankfulness, emerged again into the open air, they discovered that the beast whose track they had followed was a large walrus, or sea horse, who, with a loud bellow, rushed away as fast as its unwieldly bulk would permit. 
               Though many hours had elapsed since first they made their way into the cave, where they had encountered such peril, Frank and his friend noted, as they stood once more in the open air, that a kind of semi-darkness hung upon all around. No stars or moon shone in the blue vault above, nor did the glorious orb of day cast its rays upon the scene. 
               A darkness as of night rested upon all. 
               The winter season in the frozen regions had fairly set in. 
               No longer would the sun gild with its rays the bleak and barren rocks. For some months eternal night would rest upon the scene. 
               A cheerless prospect for the wanderers, who, with prayers, however, to a kind Providence for their last escape, with bold hearts hurried onwards over the lone dismal waste. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               A STRANGE SIGHT. 
               KEEPING a bright lookout for wild beats, who roamed those dreary wastes, our two youths breasted the cutting gales, being resolved to stand by each other whatever might be the hazards which they were fated to endure. 
               No vegetation, not a single tree greeted their eyes, although they sometimes felt the moss crumpling under the snow as they kept their way over the pathless wild. 
               They had gone forward thus some two hours, when they be held, approaching them, something which resembled a huge sheet of snow sliding over the plain, and then they heard a rushing sound amid the darkness which was alarming because mysterious, and because they could, in nowise, conjecture what it was. 
               On came the fleecy torrent. 
               "What can it be, Frank?" 
               "Hush! listen! our guns are useless against such a foe, we shall be swept away." 
               It looks like the lava of a burning mountain, only it gives doubtless, the white foxes of that region, who became alarmed and fled as soon as they discovered the presence of the two young men. 
               "The next may be more dangerous beasts," said Wardour. 
               "We must be prepared to encounter white bears," responded Frank. 
               "What is that?" exclaimed Richard pointing to something that stood up before them, white in the darkness, and seemed a giant of huge proportions prepared to dispute their passage. 
               "Don't let us be needlessly alarmed," replied Frank; "there are doubtless many strange sights in this sterile wilderness that, seen amid the darkness, may pass for a great deal more than they are worth." 
               As Frank said this, the two youths continued to approach the huge Colossus, and, perceiving that it did not move, concluded it was a pile of rocks that some freak of Nature had thrown into the shape of a gigantic monster-some lone monarch of the wide and howling wilderness. But, what was their surprise upon coming up with it to discover that it was a huge heathen god some forty feet in height and formed of a sort of chalky stone which easily yielded to abrasion. 
               Who could have reared that stupendous idol in those desolate regions? On one side of the gigantic pile they found an opening, and, without more ado, crept into it. Rude steps carried them up to the head, which was of the dimensions of a hogshead, and finding two holes where the eyes should be, Frank and his friend looked out upon the frozen plain. It was well that they did so; for, while they looked, they beheld a dozen great white objects, which were doubtless the bears of that region, go trembling by. 
               "Thanks to the pious artificer, who reared this great idol!" cried Richard, "for without it we should have been lost." 
               "We are commanded not to put our trust in idols," returned Frank; "but I think I shall not leave this one in a hurry-at least, not till those white-coated adventurers have decamped." 
               At length, however, the two youths found it more unpleasant inside than outside of the idol. Motion was necessary to circulate the blood in their benumbed limbs. They descended, and having looked carefully in every direction, and not being able to detect anything unusual, they went forward again. 
               All was darkness and eternal frost; but they remembered their shipmates reduced to the last mouthful of food, and pressed vigorously forward. 
               On the third day, nothing material having occurred in the interim, they found themselves on the ice, while beyond and ahead of them was seen the coasts of Russia, and they knew that they were not far distant from the north west corner of Siberia. High mountains covered with snow were visible; these must have been the Ural mountains which, commencing on the northern and western confines of Tartary, extend northward to the Arctic Ocean. 
               But, when they reached the main land, there seemed to be no relief for them. No inhabitants, no dwelling of any kind presented itself. 
               Having found a cave partly sheltered from the cutting winds, on the seventh day of their departure, they lay down in it to sleep a few hours before continuing their journey. 
               Frank, waking at about two o'clock in the morning, imagined that he heard a singular noise-a very singular one for that region, for it sounded as if a brook was murmuring near them. 
               Could he be dreaming? 
               The sound, at first, had the effect to lull his senses, and he was about to fall asleep again, when a harsh note broke upon his ear which quickly roused his attention. 
               It was the human voice and, no pleasant voice either. Another voice replied in still harsher tones, and a violent wrangle ensued. 
               Where could these strangers be? 
               Richard and Frank had supposed themselves alone in the howling wilderness. That was desolate enough; but the latter took little satisfaction in discovering that they were not alone. The company to which they were liable to be introduced, he imagined might prove worse than none. 
               Frank jogged his companion who rubbed his eyes and demanded whether it was time to set out again. 
                
               Frank soon repented his imprudence, for the voices which he had overheard were hushed at once. 
               All was silent. 
               Richard repeated his question. 
               Frank endeavored to hush him up, and motioned to him to come away silently, at which Richard was very much surprised, though he obeyed the suggestion, and crept out of the cave after his companion. 
               They were not permitted to get away so easily. A stone block was removed from the inner extremity of the cave, and a grisly wretch peering forth could discern the two youths at the mouth, as they made their egress. 
               He motioned, with his hand behind his back, to somebody else in his rear, and then came forth into the vestibule of the cave, where Frank and Richard had slept. A dozen desperate looking fellows followed him. 
               Our two adventures were not to be taken by surprise, and saw several dark bodies issuing from the cave. 
               They turned and took aim with their rifles. More men came bundling out of the earth, and they all rushed upon our two youths who, being determined to sell their lives as dearly as possible, discharged their pieces. Two of the foremost assailants fell heavily on the earth. 
               In the next instant our two adventurers were seized and roughly dragged into the cave. 
               "Where are you from and what are you doing here?" demanded one of the ruffians who was heavily armed, with pistols at his belt and a hanger at his side, and who wore a short feather in his slouched hat. 
               "Our ship lies embedded in ice on the coast of Nova Zembla," returned Frank; "the crew are short of provisions and we are seeking for a settlement in order to obtain relief for them." 
               "And you have murdered two of our men-you must die!" cried another unsheathing a broad dagger, and approaching Frank fiercely. 
               "Stop! stop!" interposed the first speaker; "these men have fought in their own defence, just as you or I would have done under like circumstances. They shall have a fair trial when we get on board, and we will then see what can be done with them." 
               The other ruffians looked at each other, as if they did not like this decision any too well, but they remained silent. 
               "You will pretend that your ship has not come into these parts to hunt for certain treasures that were buried hereabout by the noted corsair, Don Carlo Ugolino, some years ago, and which have not yet been discovered by any adventurers?" demanded the first speaker who seemed to be the leader of the band. 
               "We were come hither on no such errand, sir." returned Frank; "and now if your curiosity as satisfied in regard to us and our belongings, we crave permission to continue our journey, as time is passing, and our shipmates are starving." 
               "Not so lightly as that, romantic youth do I regard the loss of two of my best men. Fortunate is it for you that, being two likely youths, you will be able to fill the vacancy left in our ranks by their death." 
               "Leave them to Him who feeds the sparrows-" 
               "That were sound advice in a clime where sparrows are to be found; but there are no sparrows in these high latitudes and they would fare badly if they came here." 
               The captain of the band smiled grimly, and signed to his companions to prepare for their march. 
               Frank and Richard, finding that they were prisoners, could do no otherwise than set out with their captors, and trust to fortune for an opportunity to escape. 
               Our two youths were placed in the center of the band, and a man with a drawn sword, walked on each side of them. 
               When they traveled for more than two weeks, seeking repose at night in caves and hollows which seemed to be well known to the buccaneers, or whatever they might be called. 
               One thing they learned, the chief spokesman was called Captain Rudolph, and his lieutenant went by the name of Gonzalvi. Although young, he was a bloody-minded wretch, and continually recommended the massacre to our two adventurers. As for Rudolph, his mercy seemed to be the result of policy and calculation rather than impulse. 
                
               Others were called by the names of Fergus Blake, Hal Harpoon, Rotaldo, and Black Bill. They seemed to be of all nations, and their names were probably assumed only for temporary occasions. 
               After some fifteen or sixteen days of travel, the company reached a little cove not far from the White Sea, where lay a large brig, carrying twelve guns and manned by some two hundred wretches in the parti-colored dress always characteristic of lawless depredators. 
               Our youths now knew into what hands they had fallen and understood that they were expected to form part of the crew of the piratical vessel. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE PHYSICIAN AND HIS CHARMS. 
               THE object of Captain Rudolph's visit in that region was the recovery of immense treasury said to have been buried there by one of his lawless predecessors. 
               Soon after they reached the brig and she had set sail, Captain Rudolph began to suffer from a wound which he had received some days previous in a contest which the shore party had had with white bears. Gonzalvi, who would succeed to the command in case of Randolph's death, acted the part of a disinterested friend towards his commander, however, and seemed to have no ambitious designs. 
               There was in the vessel a strange being whom the crew of the El Malachor-for that was the name of the brig-had found wandering on the coast-an uncouth dwarf, calling himself Hans Hinckman. 
               This mysterious being, who would give no account of himself, and who seemed to have dropped down from the heavens, or to have come up from the other place, seemed to entertain a settled dislike to the youthful Gonzalvi, and for some days the latter had not spoken to him. 
                
               Hans Hinckman had professed to be acquainted with the healing art, and now, Gonzalvi sought him out, and demanded whether he could cure the wound of Captain Rudolph. 
               The dwarf replied in tone of sarcasm which, at any other time, would have tempted Gonzalvi to plunge a dagger to his heart. 
               "I must conciliate this wretch," murmured the young lieutenant. 
               Ceasing his banter, Hans Hinokman's eye seemed to pierce into the very recesses of the soul of his companion, as he uttered in a firm voice- 
               "Rudolph sleeps soundly, but he sleeps in darkness, and there shall be for him a day-spring; his waking thoughts are yet as vain and wild as those which are wheeling their giddy dance through his slumbering brain; but the dream shall be dissolved, and--" 
               Suddenly, again altering his demeanor towards Gonzalvi, the speaker approached the youth with his right hand extended, and in no longer the menacing attitude he had assumed. 
               "Let there be a truce between us," continued Hans. "Interest, the strongest tie that human nature knows, should make us friends." 
               "I am content," answered the other; "but what security do you offer that you will observe the truce you have proposed?" 
               "My simple word alone," answered Hans, dryly. "But for the risk I am about to run, I somewhat fancy that it is you from whom I should demand assurance, did I not know that treason seldom dwells with courage, a quality I have learnt you possess in the highest degree." 
               "I shall be true to you," said Gonzalvi, laying his hand on his heart as he spoke. "While our fortune wills, we remain in company together, and in good faith." 
               "Friendly deeds are better than fair words," continued Hans; "of the last we have had enough. I shall render Rudolph an essential service, and one that he will not readily forget.' 
               "Did I not know better," muttered Gonzalvi, "I should esteem this act one of a madman's." 
               "Madman's!" returned Hans, who had overheard the remark. "According to the belief of many who are under the influence of immediate inspiration, they are often right. Know, boy, that when one eye is extinguished the other becomes more keen; when one hand is cut off the other becomes more powerful; so, when our reason in human things is disturbed or destroyed, our view onward becomes more acute and perfect. You will, I suppose, next look upon me as a necromancer, devil worshipper and idolater?" 
               Loath to answer the question the youth was about to pass it with that sullen port which seems to say-"I know thee, but will hold no communication," when his purpose was defeated by the prompt demand- 
               "You must speak." 
               "What if I tell you I am on my captain's errand?" 
               "Mine touches Captain Rudolph more nearly. I bring him health." 
               Gonzalvi measured Hans Hinckman with credulous eyes, replying- 
               "You are no surgeon." 
               "Perhaps not," interrupted Hans; "still I have some skill in healing wounds, and as your captain is sinking rapidly from the one he has received, may it not be as well that I undertook to work a cure on--" 
               "Stay. There is an air of mystery about you that begets suspicion, and I must have some warrant that you are not bringing poisons instead of remedies." 
               Hans, though displeased with the manner of Gonzalvi's reply, answered calmly- 
               "You have nothing to fear on that score. My life will be in your comrades' hands if I betray my trust, and surely that is sufficient guarantee that I mean no foul play; but, nevertheless, your caution and prudence does you credit, though they may be dispensed with in the present instance, and, if not greatly mistaken, I can give you proof of my earnest sincerity." 
               "Your token?" 
               "This!" 
               With the words, Hans whispered in the ear of Gonzalvi. 
               The youth was struck with the solemnity of the obtestation, and now answered with more cordiality than he had yet exhibited- 
               "Friend, you must not think ill of me if I treated you in the first instance somewhat brusquely in this matter; but you must bear in mind that-" 
               "You gave me a cold return for a well-meant kindness," interrupted Hans, shrugging his shoulders as one who wishes to avoid an unpleasant topic," but that didn't surprise me, for few men live, now-a-days, who know their enemies, and, in these latitudes, the art of destroying life is as general as the art of cooking." 
               Gonzalvi smiled an assent, adding- 
               "But I must for the present bid you adieu. I am wanted, in the captain's cabin; at noon, when he slumbers, I will speak again with you." 
               The youth and his companion then parted, better friends than they had met: but before separating the former received further credentials from his newly found friend. 
               It was on the decline of the day following the conference, that Rudolph lay in his cabin on his couch of sickness, loathing it as much in his mind as his desperate wound made it irksome to his body. 
               His bright eye, which at all times shone with uncommon keenness and splendor, had its vivacity augmented by fever and mental impatience, and glanced from under his unshorn locks as fitfully and vividly as the last gleams of the sun shoot through the clouds of an approaching thunderstorm, which still, however, are gilded by its lustre. 
               The manly features of the pirate chieftain showed the progress of wasting illness, and his beard, neglected and untrimmed, had overgrown both lips and chin. 
               Casting himself from side to side-now clutching towards his coverings, which he at the next moment flung from him; his tossed couch and eager gestures at once exhibited that energetic disposition, whose natural sphere is that of the most active exertions. 
               Beside the couch of Rudolph stood Gonzalyi, in face, attitude and manner, the strongest possible contrast to the suffering pirate. 
               The faithful youth had not lain aside his clothing for nights, enjoying but such momentary repose as the warder of a sick chamber might by snatches indulge. 
               He had scarcely, since his attendance on his captain, changed his position, except to administer medicine and refreshment, an office performed only by his hands, to the surprise of those who had been longer followers of the invalid. 
               The cabin in which these personages were had more of a warlike than a sumptuous appearance; weapons, offensive and defensive, were scattered about the apartment, or disposed upon the woodwork that supported it. 
               Skins of animals slain in the chase were stretched on the floor, or extended with the skeleton monsters of the deep along the sides. 
               Here and there were massive chests exposed to view, and laden with spoil taken in some recent marauding expeditions. 
               The most noticeable trophy was a mighty sword, which rested within arm's length of the reclining buccaneer. It was a long and two-edged bladed weapon he had brought from the Levant. It was black from hilt to point, destitute of ornament, except some golden hieroglyphics near the guard, and of a weight which would have wearied the arm of any other than that of the herculean Rudolph. 
               "I think the crew of this once dreaded vessel have turned women," said the pirate chieftain, after a long and perturbed silence, spent in the feverish agitation which we have endeavored to describe; "four days passed in idleness, and not a stiver added to our coffers; would that I could once more pace the deck to set the lazy lubbers a better example." 
               "Captain," replied Gonzalvi, "my comrades are as brave and willing as ever to either fight or plunder, but respect for you has kept them inactive. When you appear again among them you will find them more devoted than ever." 
               "Then you must have no excuse on my account." 
               As Rudolph spoke, he thrust his right hand out of bed, naked to the shoulder, and painfully raising himself on his couch, attempted to rise from the same. 
               It was not without a gentle degree of violence, which the buccaneer would scarce have endured from another, that Gonzalvi, in his character of sick nurse, compelled his patient to replace himself on the couch, and cover his sinewy arm, neck and shoulder, with the care which a mother bestows upon her infant nursling. 
               "Gonzalvi, you tend me too carefully," said he, smiling, while he submitted to the strength which he was unable to resist. 
               "Captain," replied the youth, with some show of emotion, for which his companion could not account, "what is a wound or a fever-fit, that we should not endure them patiently, in order to get rid of them easily?" 
               "Fever-fit!" exclaimed Rudolph, impetuously, "a dead lethargy, if you like, which is so infectious it seems that it deprives every one of my followers of speech and action." 
               "As you value their interest, captain, take this matter less violently." 
               "This is smoothly said, to soothe a sick man; but does the league of a sworn brotherhood droop with the malady of one man-why should my life or my death affect the actions of one hundred and sixty-four men as brave as myself? 
               "When the master stag is struck down," continued the pirate chieftain, "the berd do not disperse upon his fall-when the falcon strikes the leading crane, another takes the guidance of the phalanx. Why does not my band assemble and choose some one of their number to whom they may entrust the command of this vessel and maintain its prestige?" 
               "Senor Rotaldo, captain," answered Gonzalvi, naively, "has in some measure, taken such an office upon himself." 
               "Ha!" exclaimed Rudolph, whose jealousy being awakened gave his mental irritation another direction. "What, because he is as superstitious as yourself, without your indifference to danger. Let the men look well to their leader, or some fine morning they may chance find themselves made merchandise of by English skippers and Spanish pedlars." 
                
               As he spoke the buccaneer raised himself suddenly in his bed, while his eyes, sparkling as they were wont to do on the eve of battle, seemed to inquire into the cause of such a proceeding. 
               "Hark," he said. "What is that passing on the deck above us?" 
               "Some of the crew appear to be in altercation," answered Gonzalvi, listening attentively, and endeavouring to learn the cause of dispute. 
               "I can distinguish a stranger in spite of those around him; go and bring some account of this intruder," said Rudolph to his companion, while with an impatience of mood, he extended his hand in direction of the cabin door. 
               "Captain, I can guess what is happening," said Gonzalvi, hastening to obey the order he had received. "The voice you hear is that of a man we picked up the sole survivor of a shipwrecked crew." 
               "I should have been acquainted with this before," rejoined Rudolph, angrily, with one glance of fire, transient as the flash from the cold stony flint. "You are remiss in duty." 
               "I grant I have done wrong, captain," said Gonzalvi, calmly, "but my care for you made me forgetful in this instance. Remember, when this outcast was taken on board you were in a sleep that had been a stranger to you for many nights, and had I aroused you--" 
               The sobs of the youth prevented his further utterance; there was something in his manner that struck Rudolph, and the feelings of the pirate reproached him with undue severity. 
               Laying his hand upon the shoulder of Gonzalvi, he addressed a few words to him in a more kindly tone. The latter raised his eyes. The black orbs were filled with tears; he looked with a blind gaze on his captain, and thence at his hand which he still suffered to remain on his shoulder. 
               At this instant the cabin became filled with pirates, while the most conspicuous among the group was the little distorted miniature of humanity, Hans Hinckman. 
               Hal Harpoon was the first on entering to address this seemingly despised individual. 
                
               "And so," he cried, "you have the courage to practise your art upon our noble captain?" 
               "I have," replied Hans, unabashed by the taunts that were now thickly showered at him. "Aye, and as well as on the meanest living creature. I should make no distinction between the Port Admiral and the cabin boy, when called to exercise the art of healing." 
               "Remember," said Fergus Blake, "that heated iron and molten lead will torment your lacerated flesh, if our Captain die under your hands." 
               "That's rather hard justice," returned Hans, dryly, "seeing that I can but use human means, and the issue is written only in the book of futurity." 
               "Put a clapper on your jawing tackle, Fergus Blake," said Rudolph, who had, during the interim, received a full report of the physician from his trusty confidant, Gonzalvi. "I am well satisfied with the virtues of this mannikin's medicines, and shall not refuse them." 
               The dwarf looked grimly on the unceremonious buccaneer for a moment, but, on exchanging a glance with another who stood by his side, smoothed his frowning brow as well as he could, and watched with impatience the passing scene. Rudolph continued to speak. 
               "Gonzalvi," he exclaimed, "I am going to take a leap in the dark, you will say. It may or it may not be so; difficulties give way to enterprise, and resolution presumes to soar. Your captain will be again amongst you, or you shall give what is left of him a grave in the ocean. I would say more, but this fever has wasted my strength, and my wound becomes more painful. Come, stranger, to your work-to your work." 
               Hans Hinckman, who had already informed himself of the various symptoms of his patient's illness, now felt his pulse for a long time and with deep attention, while all around stood silent, and in anxious expectation. 
               He next filled a cup with cold water, and dipped into it a small red purse, which he, with some formality, took from his bosom. 
               When the rude sage seemed to think it sufficiently medicated he was about to offer it to Rudolph, but was prevented by his abrupt exclamation- 
               "Belay, man-belay! You have touched my pulse, let me lay a finger on yours; though a rough seaman, I know something of the doctor's art." 
               Hans Hinckman yielded without hesitation, and his slender dark palm was for an instant enclosed, and almost buried in the large enfoldment of the pirate's hand. 
               "His blood beats as calm as an infant's," said the pirate; "so throb not theirs who stab and poison. Comrades," he continued, "whether I live or die, grant protection and safety to my physician, here, for I am without doubt of his faith." 
               Rudolph then raised himself in bed, drained the cup offered to him to the very bottom, and, having again resigned it to Hans Hinckman, sank back as if exhausted upon the cushions beneath his body. 
               The physician, then, with silent but expressive signs, directed that those present should leave the cabin, excepting himself and Gonzalvi, whom no remonstrance could induce to withdraw. 
               For some hours Rudolph remained in a state of alternate delirium and stupor. 
               While labouring under the effects of the potion his ears were assailed continuously by mysterious words, uttered in such unearthly tones, that he could only attribute them to some spirit, or supernatural agency. 
               Whether the draught he had taken had proved too powerful for his exhausted state, or whether his brain wandered but to reveal reality, he could not tell. 
               One thing seemed certain-that the scene pictured and the characters pourtrayed to his vision, were sent as a warning of approaching danger to himself. 
               Suddenly he rose up in a sitting posture, to listen once more to the voices which appeared to issue from the bed of the mighty ocean, upon which the vessel was sailing. 
               He felt unusual fear-a painful foreboding. 
               He knew not why. 
               A violent gust of wind roared round the cabin, the windows were blown in, and the lamp extinguished. 
                
               Although the darkness was intense, Rudolph could discover that he was attended by a stranger whose form and features were as clear and as defined as if it were noon-day. 
               Struck by the singularity of the circumstance, and choked with agonising sensations, he was unable to utter a word, while an uncontrolable feeling urged him to watch in silence the actions of his mysterious companion. 
               His clothes were saturated with the water which had lately fallen. 
               His visage was white and corpse-like. 
               Remaining for some minutes without motion, this individual approached the invalid, who, partially recovering from his surprise, found a cold, dripping hand in his own. 
               It was the grasp of ice. 
               The chill of death. 
               Fear seemed to give Rudolph strength, for he was able to throw himself from his couch, and recoil with horror from the presence of one whom he could look upon but as no other than an apparition. 
               "Am I awake?" he cried, rubbing his eyes and glancing around him. "Yes; I can distinctly behold through the porthole yon flock of screaming birds which, scared by an echo, hover across the ocean. 
               "Ah, what is that?" continued the pirate, gazing in the direction he had spoken of. "A black speck as it were from the very centre of the waters. 
               "It advances. 
               "It assumes the form of a vessel. 
               "Now a sail appears, white as the foam preceeding it. 
               "It is the the barque I have before encountered-it is- 
               "The Flying Dutchman!" 
               As these words were uttered a hurricane burst upon the ship. 
               The canvas flew away in ribands. 
               Mountains of seas swept over the decks and rigging, whilst in the middle of a deep over-hanging cloud which shrouded the vast expanse, were written in characters of livid flame, the enigmatical sentence- 
                
               "Till the crack of doom!" 
               "Listen to me, Rudolph," said the unknown, "for my time is short. One hope alone remains, and for this I am permitted, or rather charged to come here." 
               "You are no longer a being of this earth, then!" 
               "I am not dead, nor yet am I alive," replied the other. "I linger between this world and that of spirits." 
               "Your appeal extended to me the signal of confidence-your declaration destroys it," said the pirate, with a melancholy smile, "so dies, too frequently, the last spark of friendship, when the sigh of adversity should fan it to a flame." 
               "The world, I know, holds in abhorence those who league themselves with powers incomprehensible to man," returned the unknown, "and you I find are no exception to the general rule. But 'tis an universal error-there are spirits of good as of evil, and Vanderdecken, of whom you have spoken, is among their number. Before you condemn, you should, at least, not too severely adjudge one who has both the power and inclination to save you." 
               Rudolph nodded a seeming assent to these words, and, by his demeanor, invited his companion to proceed with his discourse. 
               "I can give you joy and influence," he continued; "wealth is at my command, and I will bestow it on you." 
               "Yes, I have heard of one who guards the treasures inexhaustible of a century-lost wreck in these latitudes," answered the pirate, "treasures which, though watched by a spirit, may yet be yielded to a mortal hand." 
               "They may be yours, even yours," exclaimed the stranger, "though you be only the despised and persecuted Rudolph whose long train of dark crimes have branded a name with infamy and brought down upon it the indignation of civilised countries. 
               "Already," continued he, "the ships of the outraged nations are on the track to punish your heinous offences, while the powerful arm of justice is about to avenge those injuries which have stained your soul." 
               "Forbear, I charge you, man or devil, which ever you be!" shouted Rudolph, raising the sword which rested near his couch. "I know that I have mankind for my enemy; they know that I am prepared to elude their machinations. They must be daring bloodhounds, indeed," added the pirate, "who would venture to beard their prey in his stronghold, and those who have the temerity to attack my good ship, El Malachor, will perish as wheaten straw in the glowing furnace. Rudolph may not bear a charmed life, but, backed by his bold crew, is safe from all harm!" 
               "He who puts his trust in his fellow man, leans on a frail reed for support," was the other's reply, "and, I am prone to think that it is a pity that a heart which beats with pulsations of nobility of purpose, should suffer itself to be so deeply execrated, where it might be so highly honored." 
               "You speak in riddles. What would you have me do?" 
               "Accept the lot which fortune may bestow; in a word renounce your present condition, and become once more an honest gentleman." 
               "What, turn renegade?" exclaimed Rudolph. "Never!" 
               There was a long pause, terminated by the stranger remarking- 
               "I have already told you that my time is short." 
               "Might it not be more consistent with your profession of friendship," answered Rudolph, "if you lay aside the dark mask which conceals your intentions, and converse with me barefaced?" 
               "I am forbid to speak to you in plainer terms here, but have the power to show that I mean well to you elsewhere. Plunge with me into the deep, and--" 
               "Are there no terms to our compact?" asked Rudolph. 
               "None save those you are at liberty to reject." 
               "With this concession I may accept your offer." 
               "Quick, then. Follow me, and fear nothing." 
               As he spoke these words, the unknown took the pirate's hand and led him to the edge of the cabin window, beneath which lay a small boat. 
               How Rudolph reached it, was a mystery as great as the scene which he had just witnessed. 
                
               He seemed in his descent to tread upon air, and nothing less, being provided with neither steps nor ladder. 
               He had no sooner entered the little vessel, than the rope which had hitherto held it to the ship was cast off. 
               The next moment Rudolph and his trusty pilot were darting with the breeze though the rough blue ocean. 
               At midnight, when the fugitives had quitted the El Malachor, the men who had just come upon the middle watch were aroused by a sound on the waters. 
               It was a tempestuous night, and the moon obscured by thick clouds, rendered it a somewhat difficult matter to discern the object which had attracted attention. 
               A heavy thunderstorm coming on, and the lightning playing among the rigging, at length revealed to the half blinded gaze as their dread enemy, the Flying Dutchman. 
               Rotaldo, the commander, who at the moment came upon deck, ordered the pirates to fire into her. 
               The latter were so overcome with horror, that every shot struck far off the mark, and glanced from billow to billow. 
               The storm continued with unabated fury for some minutes, at the expiration of which time it partially cleared off. 
               Though it was extremely dark, Rotaldo insisted upon keeping up the chase of the mystic vessel. 
               As the buccaneer was following the phantom ship, she tacked and swept past so closely, that the crew of the pursuing vessel could distinguish the faces of those on board her opponent. 
               To the horror of one and all, they perceived the ghostly skipper in a halo of light, and by his side the dusky form of their leader, Rudolph. 
               As the eagle wings her flight, so did the phantom ship seem to skim the turgid waters of the Pacific ocean. 
               Leaving her enemy far behind, she continues her cruise at a terrific pace. 
               Motion is imperceptible; it is impetus-voltion. 
               But yesterday, Rudolph and his companion were treading the deck of the El Malachor; to-day, they are hugging a coast thousands of miles distant. 
                
               It was not until the waning moon on the ensuing night was hearing a level with the ebbing waters, that this mysterious being essayed to speak. 
               "You can advance," he exclaimed, addressing Rudolph, with a gloomy demeanour. 
               "There is a sepulchral tone in your language which chills me even as the blast of winter," replied the pirate. 
               "Tempter," he continued, "let me fly! Are you not--" 
               "Vanderdecken, the Flying Dutchman, who impiously swore in defiance of heaven to gain my point, though I beat about till the crack of doom. But this concerns not you in the present instance, who are somewhat ungrateful." 
               "Shew me," replied Rudolph "this wealth-strewn wreck." 
               "Here, on the spot upon which you stand! it is at this period only that the wreck of the charmed ship can become visible to human eyes. Behold!" 
               Suddenly a thick mist enveloped the scene, and rocks and waters rose, discovering the half buried hull of a vessel. 
               The ropes of this ship appeared green with seaweed. 
               Her timbers much decayed. 
               Her crew lay about, as if in the last convulsions. 
               Every where, bales of merchandise, chests of gold and jewels met the eye. 
               As if by enchantment, the dead seamen of the wreck became instinct with life. 
               Each had his bony finger on his lip as if to impress silence; an oath of which was extorted by Vanderdecken from Rudolph previous to the narration of his history. 
               The crew were a company of odd-looking personages, and dressed in a quaint outlandish fashion. 
               "You shudder," said Vanderdecken to Rudolph. "Are you cold? here are beams will warm you." 
               As he spoke, the phantom skipper opened a large chest containing that precious metal for which men bell their souls- 
               Gold. 
               Uncounted-this inexhaustible wealth-all shall be yours in exchange for one year of liberty." 
               "Liberty?" 
                
               "Yes, yours for mine-one short year of captivity for the wealth of Vanderdecken." 
               Rudolph hesitated. 
               "Hear my story: Many years ago, in the olden time, Vanderdecken and his devil crew were the terror of every sea. Never passed a day that these decks were not crimson with blood enforced by guilty violence. At length the bright star of my destiny set: tempest and wreck, and loss in battle ensued-mutiny next. I was dragged down from my cabin," continued Vanderdecken, "and manacled in the dark hold, while they, in riot and demoniac exultation, returned to perish. "Yes; fearfully, terribly was Vanderdecken avenged," he cried. "As I lay in my prison, fettered, loudly descended to my ear the drunken sounds of mockery and defiance. The rage-the strength of superhuman force possessed me. I burst asunder my iron bonds, and reaching a porthole of this devoted vessel, snapped, as though it were a frail thread, the chain that held it. In furiously gushed the booming waters. Deeper and deeper down, with every roar, the ship descended. I cared not for myself. To die avenged was all-avenged, and like Vanderdecken." 
               "From thence your doom-" 
               "To watch the fearful wreck one year in a century, and at one especial hour of the night to encounter the re-animated forms of those I murdered." 
               "And must I endure all this?" asked Rudolph. "If I refuse?" 
               "It is too late to retreat," shouted Vanderdecken. "The moon is already on a level with the waters." 
               "A desperate zeal inspires me," muttered Rudolph. "The excitement which conducts to hope is better than a nothingness worse than death. 
               "I will not consent to join you in this unholy compact." 
               "Then I must compel you." 
               "I am armed with a relic-the holy cross upon which you made your impious vow." 
               With the words, Rudolph drew the sacred emblem from his breast. 
                
               It was no sooner exposed to view than the heavens darkened and forked flashes of lightning burst through her sable mantle. 
               The crew of the charmed vessel again aroused from torpor, became endowed with the appearance of life. 
               With brutal ferocity they stabbed their invulnerable commander, who, with fierce mocking, defied their deeply-dealt blows. 
               They flashed their fire-arms at him, but still no sound prevailed. 
               A foretaste of death seemed to pass over the face of Rudolph with a marble paleness, and thick drops of sweat gathered on his brow at the ghastly encounter. 
               Protected by the cross, he recovered from his terror, and, in defiance of the supernatural band, plunged from the vessel's side into the surrounding sea. Engulphed in the waters, his senses were overpowered, his eyes swam in his head, and he remembered nothing till he found himself peacefully reclining in his own cabin. "Thank heaven, then, it was a dream," he cried, joyfully, "and not sad reality." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               A DARING EXPLOIT. 
               THE sea is like a mirror. 
               The breeze caresses the sails of the El Malachor as she speeds on her course. 
               Let us now turn to the forecastle of the schooner, some hours later, and see what is going forward there. 
               Look, look! What are they bringing up now? 
               The party, armed with drawn cutlasses, who surrounded a prisoner, were accompanied by the captain of the watch, Black Bill. 
               At the same time we may remark there was nothing about the unfortunate being in custody, save and except his deformity, which could warrant the display of glistening weapons that were pointed at him. He was quiet. 
               The sturdy Black Bill, as judge, having acquainted himself before hand with the conditions and supposed offences of the captive, was enabled to have in readiness replies to expected answers, and at once, in a magisterial tone, commenced his interrogation. 
               "Your name?" 
               "He is called, or rather calls himself, Hans Hinckman," cried several voices. 
               Hans Hinckman merely shrugged his broad shoulders. 
               "Now, your business?" said Black Bill, going on agreeably to the routine of persons in such a position as that which he now held. 
                
               "Times when I read the stars." 
               "You hear, messmates," said Black Bill; "he acknowledges himself to be a magician." 
               "There may be mystery, but no magic in the skies," returned the prisoner. 
               "That will do," said Black Bill, to the seamen around him, who began to whisper and look at one another. 
               "You are accused," continued he, turning to Hans Hinckman, "of sorcery, magic, and attempt to poison our captain, Rudolph." 
               An angry roar followed this remark, mixed with cries of the pirates for summary justice. 
               "You had better tell all you know," cried Black Bill. 
               "That I dare not do,' replied Hans Hinckman, shaking his head and then he added, firmly, "what is more, if I could, I would not." 
               "Belay there!" he exclaimed; "though he deserves a halter, I won't let him swing till he has spoken out, and I think we have means of making him do so." 
               Upon the deck of the El Malachor was now placed a cube of wood-work some ten feet high, and hollow within. A rude flight of steps led to an upper platform, upon which was seen a horizontal wheel constructed of oak. To this wheel the culprit was at once bound, upon his knees, and with his hands tied behind him. Jerkin and shirt were taken off, and Hans Hinckman allowed himself to be stripped to the waist without the least opposition. 
               An axle of timber, moved by a capstan, next caused the wheel to revolve, and exhibit the face of the pinioned wretch to every point of the compass. This was called by the pirates "harnessing" a prisoner to the wheel. A loud laugh was raised by those assembled when they beheld Hans Hinckman's naked hump, his camel breast, and scaly shoulders. 
               Amidst all this mirth, a man of Herculean frame advanced. It was Csar, a black, he had bared his right arm by turning up the sleeve of his shirt to the elbow: over the left arm was seen hanging a whip. This same was composed of long, white glistening thongs, knotted, twisted, and pointed with sharp bits metal. The negro had no sooner taken his stand beside the prisoner, than Black Bill stamped with his foot. The wheel began to turn. Hans Hinckman shook in his bonds. The expression of his hideous face at this crisis, drew fresh shouts from the pirates who surrounded him. All at once, when the wheel in its revolutions presented the shoulders of the culprit to Csar, he raised his whip-armed hand. The thin lashes hissed sharply in the air like so many wasps, and descended with fury upon the back of the unfortunate manikin. He merely turned the one way and then the other. A second dull thud succeeded the first stroke, then came another and another. The wheel continued to turn, and the blows at its rotation to fall. The blood began to flow from the swart and lacerated body of Hans Hinckman, and the thongs to sprinkle it in drops over the persons of his unpitying and ruthless persecutors. In defying his torture, the offender had not overcalculated his strength, but the agony he endured forced, at length, from him one of those shrieks which baffle the orthography of every human language. 
               "Hold," said Black Bill, signaling to the negro that he might cease his barbarous duty. "I thought we should be able to make this oracle open his mouth." 
               "Wizard," he continued, do you persist in denying conspiring against the life of our captain?" 
               "I am innocent," groaned Hans Hinckman. 
               "That we have yet to see," returned Black Bill, with a sardonic smile. 
               Again the wheel was set in motion. 
               Csar, preparing to renew his labor, again took up his station near Hans Hinckman. 
               The dread of future punishment seemed to incline the manikin now to throw off his former apathy. He endeavored at first quietly, and without any external effort, to break the cords with which he was secured. His eye was then observed to flash with lurid fire. His muscles and limbs swelled and gathered themselves up. The struggle was evidently desperate, mighty, prodigious. All of a sudden the shackles cracked. Ferocity had given the dwarf the power of a giant. The hempen lashings ings, which had eaten into his flesh, snapped like a piece of whipcord. Taking advantage of the temporary amazement of his persecutors, Hans Hinckman managed to possess himself of the capstan bar, which had been inadvertently left within reach. 
               Black Bill was the first to recover from surprise, and drawing a huge hanger from his side, made a rapid cut at the offender. The latter had forseen the stroke, and averted it with his ponderous iron weapon. Such was the force of the blow, that the swordblade, though of the best-tempered steel, was shivered at the hilt. Gnashing his teeth with rage, the vanquished sea-man sought a new weapon, and encouraged, with shouts and cries, his messmates to press in a body on his antagonist. Galled by the fierce and pertinacious assault, Hans Hinckman, with his powerful instrument of defence, raged among his foes like a wolf in a lamb pasture. 
               In a few moments the destruction of the pirate crew would have been complete. 
               It was at a critical moment, when a cessation of hostilities took place, by a voice shrieking out from the hold- 
               "Fire-arms!" 
               Aware of his danger, the remarkable agility of Hans Hinckman stood him in admirable stead. 
               Disengaging his right arm, he clutched at a rope that hung suspended over his head from the fore-mast. 
               Though through his tremendous exertion he could scarcely oven draw his breath, and his brawny chest heaved like a laboring mountain, he contrived to reach the cross tree with the agility of a startled cat, and for a moment he was partially out of harm's way. 
               Hans Hinckman did not long remain in his perilous situation. His quick eye had observed the carbines levelled at him, and instinct revealed to him the deadly aim of those who were poising them. Springing forward without hesitation, he leapt from the dizzy eminence into the sea. A demon laugh-a laugh such as one only who has ceased to be human is capable of, burst from Hans Hinckman as he struggled with the waves. The pirates, with dark and louring faces, gathered at the bulwarks, and their eager eyes strained themselves to watch whether their late captive gained or lost by his daring exploit. 
               For some minutes they gazed intently on him, and conversed in a somewhat low tone. 
               "How the lubber sails," said Hal Harpoon, emphatically. "For such a queer-looking craft it is wonderful!" 
               "Look yonder," said another; "there is a black mass on the surface of the waters." 
               At any other time the intimation would have occasioned either curiosity or apprehension; now it was forgotten in the danger which menaced the fugitive. 
               In the direction indicated could be seen the dark object sighted by the pirate, whose track, by the white mist wrenched from the ocean, was coming down to him with a wild, rushing sound. 
               All at once it reached Hans Hinckman. 
               The next instant both were lost sight of, and the minute after the sea, to use the terms of our social friend Nick, turned as red as a marine's jacket, and man and monster appeared again; the former darting away from the latter, like a bird loosed from the string. 
               To the surprise of all, Hans Hinckman made once more for the ship from which he had escaped, followed by his enemy who was now distinguished as one of those gigantic animals tradition asserts at times frequents the deep. 
               Hans Hinckman, as if endowed with supernatural power, seemed to increase the distance between himself and antagonist, and eventually succeeded in gaining the ship. 
               Setting both his knees against the side of the vessel, Hans Hinckman hooked himself into one of her clefts, and, by super human exertion, succeeded in passing his body through one of the open portholes. 
               Amazement and terror, which had hitherto compelled the pirates to maintain silence, now, at the desperate act, caused them with one accord to exclaim- 
               "It is the devil, and no man!" 
               Being now persuadod that they had to do with a super-natural being, the pirate crew gave back as Hans Hinckman sprang upon the brig's deck. 
                
               Rushing down into the cabin, Hans Hinckman was greeted by the Captain, who acknowledged that, notwithstanding his horrible dream, he felt much relieved-that his wound was evidently in a fair way to he healed. 
               Our two youths, Frank and Richard, noted well all these occurrences, and would, if possible, have made them subserve their own purposes; but, on consultation, they decided that Hans Hinckman was not the right man to be entrusted with their secret design to escape from the pirate brig. 
               Time would fair us to recount the many adventures of the pirate brig, before the long-wished for opportunity arrived for our two youths to leave the rude company into which they had been pressed. 
               It was not until many months had elapsed, and winter had come again, that our two adventures succeeded in getting away from the El Malachor, and even then their attempt would have failed but that the pirate Captain, returning to the Northern seas to give another search for the buried treasure, placed too much reliance on the severity of the climate, little imagining how much Frank and Richard would endure for the sake of liberty. 
               In that sterile and frozen region, they wandered solitary for many days, till by the aid of a rude skiff, they were enabled to reach a more genial shore. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE CREW OF THE "WANDERER"-THE MIDNIGHT WATCH. 
               MONTHS have elapsed-months of happiness to a few, of suffering and despair to many. 
               Long weary months! What changes has time brought round upon its wing! 
               Even nature herself assumes a different aspect in regular course at the hand of time. 
               In the far-off frozen region the icy deep is for a period unbound- 
               Its waters once more rolling and heaving in the rays of the golden orb of day. 
               It is midday. Upon a sandy beach off the coast of Newfoundland stands a solitary female form, gazing intently at a vessel that, some distance from the shore, is riding safely anchored upon the bosom of the briny deep. 
               It was a strange sight, that female, with her fair girlish form erect and motionless, standing there, gazing at the little bark that heaved to and fro upon the glassy waters. 
               Long and silently the young girl stood statue-like on the beach, starting only from her reverie as a hand was laid upon her shoulder, a voice in rough homely accents exclaiming- 
                
               "Mistress Clara, so please you, marm, if you step to the cave the skipper has news that, mayhap, you'd like to hear." 
               "News, news? Say you so? Oh! tell me. Is then our patience and long watching rewarded at last? You have heard of those for whom we have instituted so determined a search? Is it so? Speak, Binnacle-honest old man, stand not upon ceremony, but let me know all and at once. 'Twill be an age ere we reach the cave." 
               "Not it, marm," exclaimed the man, a rough, burly, good-humored looking weather-beaten old salt of some fifty years of age. "If we claps on all sail we'll be alongside the skipper in less than the shaking of a topsail, or my name arn't Joe Binnacle. Lord love yer pretty toplights, I daren't break orders. Says the skipper, 'You'll find Miss Burnham on the beach. Bring her to the cave without delay. Tell her I think we have a clue respecting those we are in search of. I, of course, at the skipper's orders, waits to hear no more but puts on all my canvass; and if we are smart we'll get back in the twirling of a handspike. See! Blowed if there arn't the skipper hisself, and Jack Junk, what brought the news, bearing down for us." 
               The old tar here pointed to the advancing forms of two men, the parties presently afterwards meeting. Clara Burnham, for she it was who, so silent and rigid, had been gazing at the vessel as it rolled upon the waters, now seized the arm of the youngest of the strangers, in quivering voice, and with pallid cheeks, exclaiming- 
               "Captain Steventon, what is this news brought me by Binnacle? Is it, then, true we at last have heard tidings of the lost ones? Your bronzed features pale at my fixed glance. Deceive me not, but tell me the worst! They-they are lost-for ever lost! Is it not so?" 
               "I know not. Be calm, Miss Burnham. We certainly have ascertained that the brave Sea-Mew, the vessel in which your cousin departed from England, has been lost in the frozen seas, but we know not your cousin's fate." 
               "Captain Steventon, you are aware, though scoffed by all my friends, that, in consequence of a strange vision revealed to me some months back, I was the cause of your brave little bark, the Wanderer, being manned and sent in quest of the crew of the Sea-Mew. After fruitless efforts we have at last as it appears gained a clue to the absent ones. As a man of honor, attempt not to deceive me, but let me know all. The worst were better than cruel suspense." 
               "As you will, Mistress Burnham. It seems, then, that Jack Junk here and two more of our crew met a crazed demented creature, who in rags and nigh dead from want, exposure, and exhaustion, talked wildly and at random of having the winter through subsisted in the Arctic regions. When asked how he had made his way hither the poor unfortunate pointed to a curiously contrived skiff, made of rude planking of fir, half by gesticulation and half by muttered ejaculations explaining that when the winter broke he with another had braved the perils of the deep, after various hardships at length reaching the spot where he was discovered by honest Junk here." 
               "But what has this poor creature, Captain Steventon, to do with those of whom we are in quest?" 
               "Much, for the half-maddened seaman, when questioned, handed these papers to Junk. They are leaves torn from a logbook. See. I, who know poor Captain Ebsworth's hand so well, recognize this writing at a glance. 'Tis his." 
               The sailor here handed to the pale and trembling girl before him some loose papers he had taken from his vest. 
               Glancing for a moment upon them, she then gave them back, and had it not been for the friendly arm of the man Binnacle, would have fallen to the ground. 
               Recovering presently from the faintness that had seized upon her, she exclaimed, in low faltering accents- 
               "By those papers it appears that the ship was frozen in; but they do not give intelligence of the fate of those on board the ill-fated vessel." 
               "Alas! that is too easily guessed at. Without provisions, locked in the ice, nought was before them but death." 
               "Where is this wretched survivor of the hapless crew?" 
               "Safely lying in the cave, tended by a few of the sympathizing sailors of the Wanderer." 
               "I must see this stranger." 
                
               "Ay, but your impatience, dear Miss Burnham, must not out weigh discretion. It might be death to the poor unfortunate to question him further at present. He spoke of some companion in misfortune, who, he said, had sighted our vessel, and, rushing madly away from him, was quickly lost to his view; but he breaking off into wild, frenzied, and incoherent ravings it was thought by Binnacle and the rest that he must have been alone. Still it behoves us to make a search for a mile or so round, and I have sent off a party to beat about, so that if there should indeed be another survivor from the wreck of the ill-fated ship, he may be saved." 
               "Right, Captain Steventon. In this you have done well. But I will now to the cavern, and so soon as the miserable wanderer whom we have saved is sufficiently recovered I will have speech with him." 
               Accepting the proffered arm of the captain of the Wanderer for support, Clara, the brave girl, who, in her devoted love for her cousin, had left her home to brave the perils of the ocean, now made her way towards a high range of rocks, distant some half-mile from the spot where they had been holding converse. Upon reaching this place the little party halted at a portion of the rocky mass that projected from the rest some hundred yards or more. Here a large opening, sufficient to admit half-a-dozen persons abreast, gave ingress to a spacious cavern. 
               In this rude and natural retreat were congregated some eight or ten seamen, who, gathered round a senseless form, were eagerly discussing the probability of his return to life and consciousness. 
               Upon the appearance of their captain and his fair companion all drew back, retiring into different portions of the huge cavern, the interior of which had been fitted up as a habitation. 
               Tottering towards the corpse-like figure, that, enveloped in covering, lay upon a rude bed, Clara gazed intently upon the livid haggard features of the man before her. Long and fixedly she kept her eyes fastened upon the pale death-white face. Once or twice her lips moved, as if words were about to issue from them; then, drawing her hands over her eyes, she again would turn them upon that weird haggard countenance and anon, staggering back, sank into a seat, her features as pallid as those of the ill-fated stranger upon whom she had been gazing. 
               Finding, after a lapse of a few minutes, that she rose not, one of the seamen rushed to her side, startling his companions with a rude oath, averring that she was dead. This, however, was not the case, she having but relapsed into a heavy swoon. Upon recovering from her insensibility Clara, to the surprise of all, refused, as she had been wont, to return to the vessel. She would rest in the cavern that night, she said, nor could aught urged by the considerate Captain Steventon alter her determination. 
               The hours flew on, the several parties sent in quest of the missing stranger returning without the slightest intelligence of the supposed absent one, and it was settled by all that the unfortunate whom they had rescued had but raved when averring he had another in company. 
               Hour after hour flew by, Clara Burnham, pacing to and fro in the huge cavern, ever and again casting anxious glances at the figure of the worn and jaded seaman of the Sea-Mew, who still lay in his death-like sleep. 
               Despite the entreaties of the rough but kind sailors, who besought her to return for the night to the vessel, the brave and determined girl insisted upon remaining at her post. 
               As the midnight hour drew near, leaving the interior of the cave, in spite of the chill night air, she took her station by the entrance, gazing vacantly at the star-lit canopy above, and the lustrous moon that cast her silvery rays alike upon land and sea. Silently Clara Burnham for a time stood there by the entrance of the cavern, but anon murmured ejaculations escaped her lips, the while she gazed in wrapped emotion upon empty space, nor stirred nor moved standing rigid and as a statue, her fair form looking angel-like in the bright moon's rays. 
               "Who-what is he?" she gasped in broken sentences. "I know him, and yet I know him not. I have seen the face before but when? where? In spite of the finger of death, that has touched the pallid features, I recognised them, me thought, this morning. Shall I know, ere death finally claims him for its own, whether indeed 'tis he? Yet no. Surely fate would not decree that this should be. Shall I, too, never see my cousin more? Why, what is this? What is that pale face that suddenly appears before me? No, no, no! it cannot be. Yet there, in the ghastly rays of the moon, it glares upon me. And now another beside it! Help! help! help!" With a wild scream of agony, the excited and terrified girl staggered back into the cave, followed by a strange haggard figure of a man, who, with yells of frantic delight, caught her fainting from in his arms. 
                
               The early morning sun shone upon a strange scene in that rocky cavern upon the coast of Newfoundland. 
               Lying upon a rude bed, placed upon the ground in the centre of the cave, was the form of the wretched seaman rescued the day before from death upon the sands. Round the couch of the fast dying sailor were congregated the crew of the Wanderer. By the side of the rude bed knelt a fair female form (Clara Burnham), who with one hand grasping that of the dying man, with the other held a kerchief to a face bedewed with crystal tears, that fell like rain from her large dark eyes. 
               At the foot of the death-bed stands a figure with a countenance near as haggard as that of him who is about being called to his account, no other than Frank Aldersley, who with a death pale face, in pain and sorrow gazes fixedly at his dying friend. 
               Scarce a dry eye can be seen in that group, consisting of rough men whose lives had been passed in peril by sea and land, and who were accustomed to death in every form. 
               "Weep not, dear Clara," exclaimed the dying sailor, in a voice thick and husky with emotion. "Weep not for me. I am about to start on my last cruise. Frank, you will think sometimes of our perils and escapes upon the icy deep, and our winter quarters in the Arctic regions. All the past appears like a dream now. Weep not for me. I shall be happy aloft, where we may meet, perhaps again. Clara, Clara, one kiss. So, so. How dark it grows! The bright sun shone full in my face awhile back, and now all is gloom. Why have you left me? Pray for me. Steventon, a word with you. Hist remember, bury me not upon the beach, but let me rest in the blue waters. Farewell! I feel all is over-my course is run. Frank, you see I have not been false to my row. I have been-true-unto-d--" The last dread word remained unuttered. 
               Richard Wardour had gone upon his last cruise, called aloft by the Ruler of All-summoned by a voice that knew no denial. 
               Our romance of real life is now ended. 
               Frank Aldersley who, with his unfortunate friend, had lived through the fearful winter in the Arctic regions, reaching, after perils and hardships, the coast of Newfoundland, with the brave seamen of the Wanderer, strove to find out his wretched companions left on board the Sea-Mew. They failed however, in their task; neither the vessel nor her ill-fated crew were ever heard of more. They, with others, had fallen victims to the hideous perils and horrors of the icy deep. 
               In obedience to his dying request, poor Richard Wardour's remains were embosomed in the glassy depth of the ocean, the guns of the Wanderer booming out his funeral knell. 
               Frank on his safe return to England, united himself to the beautiful Clara, nor dared the perils of the ocean more. 
               But in after years, when his hair was silvered, and his children had grown to man's estate, the ceased not to remember his friend who had with him encountered the perils of the Frozen Deep, and who had so nobly kept his oath, remaining True unto Death!
                
             
            THE END. 
            
               RUSSELL'S AMERICAN STEAM PRINTING HOUSE, 28, 30 and 32 Centre St, N. Y. 
         
       
       
          
             
            DE WITT'S Ten Cent Romances. 
            Each book contains one hundred pages, printed on fine white paper, and enclosed in a handsome cover, with, an illustrated, engraving, and are sold at the remarkably low price of TEN CENTS. 
            No. 1. THE DEMON OF THE DESERT. This book is one of the most powerfully exciting novels ever written. Strange and terrible adventures crimson almost every page. 
            No. 2. PRAIRIE PETE or, The Trapper's Avenger. Of all the tales of wild adventure in forest and prairie this is the most excellent. The reader seems to actually hear the demon red skins sees their painted faces, and witnesses the lurid flames of the frontier log cabins. 
            No. 3. WILD BILL, THE INDIAN SLAYER. Wild Bill never walks out of the house without a brace of fine revolvers slung to his waist, and woe to the Indians that cross his path. 
            No. 4. THE DEATH TRAIL. Some of these incidents are fearfully terrific, such as the vigil of the Indian by the corpse of his wife, and his awful revenge upon her slayer, in the ruined wigwam. 
            No. 5. GREY-EYED LUKE. Every page of this thrilling book is full of incident-every paragraph leads the reader rapidly on to the culmination of the most interesting plot that an author ever conceived. 
            No. 6. SIX-SHOOTER JIM. This book will find readers as long as there exists a taste for the wild, the terrible and the sanguinary. It is a truthful picture of life. 
            No. 7. THE WRECKER'S VICTIM. This story is terribly interesting. It details some of the most surprising events afloat and ashore ever depicted. The daughter of the iron hearted smuggler and wrecker is one of the loveliest maidens that ever pressed foot on sea-sand. 
            No. 8. THE STORM CHILD. The dark caverns that money-comb the storm-lashed shores of Corn wall have witnessed terrible crimes in their recesses; but nothing more black and mysterious than the incidents narrated in this startling book. 
            No. 9. CAPTAIN BOB, THE MOUNTAIN DEVIL. A few years ago there dwelt in the almost impenetrable recesses of the Ozark Mountains, in the State of Arkansas, a wretch whose name was a t to the inhabitants of the surrounding region. 
            No. 10. WILD BILL'S FIRST TRAIL. Is a plain recital of the many adventures in which this daring Indian Fighter, Buffalo Hunter, Trapper and Union Guide, was an actor. 
            No. 11. SAM SUTTON, THE SCALP TAKER. In this book figures many of the very Indians who are now making the Great Plains a "dark and bloody ground." 
             
            No. 12. THE CRAWLING SNAKE. This famous Scout and Indian Scalper, went far ahead of the most cunning Indian in tricks and stratagems. He could crawl right through the best watched camp, and knife an Indian in the heart of his encampment. 
            No. 13. BIG LICE; or, The Red Cloud of the Soshones. It tells of a young hunter who found a brave Indian Slayer wounded to death; he succors him. When he himself is attacked Big Lige comes to his aid. 
            No. 14. ZOPH SLAUGHTER. A bold young hunter goes through the fiercest fights with the most savage of savage warriors. A Scout with the eye of a hawk and a heart of steel-with a wit as keen as his scalping-knife. 
            No. 15. LEATHERSKIN; or, The Prairie Guide. This well-known Scout, who figures in the pages of "The Crawling Snake," was one of the most singular men that the plains have ever given a home to. 
            No. 16. BLACK-BEARD. This ferocious pirate, who seemed to love crime for its own sake, was one of the most skilful sailors that ever took his "trick at the helm." This is one of the best sea yarns ever spun. 
            No. 17. ADELAIDE, THE AVENGER. How a young, lovely and innocent girl, followed the fortunes of a black-hearted corsair, (seeking to avenge the wrongs inflicted on her lover) is fully told in these pages. 
            No. 18. OLD PIKE, THE INDIAN TRADER. Cobb. Robinson and Bennett seem to have united all their skill in producing this most capital Indian story. It is marvellously well told, and true to life. 
            No. 19. TIGER-HEAD; or, The Spectre of the Swamp. Fearfully interesting are the strange scenes in this book. Wild hunters, wild beasts, and wilder savages, run riot in its exciting pages. 
            No. 20. JACK LONG; or, The Shot in the Eye. This book is full of the doings of a brave hunter, whose unerring rifle gets him square with his relentless enemies. 
            No. 21. OLD EPH, THE MAN GRIZZLY. A story that can't be beat, for it is written by one who was "THAR." 
            No. 22. WICKED WILL; or, The Trapper's Last Shot. Full of the most exciting deeds in forest and prairie. 
            No. 23. BIG BUFFALO; or, Steel Hatchet's Revenge. The giant form of the great war chief of the Apaches towers aloft through the red pages of this thrilling romance. 
            No. 24. MURTY, THE ROVER. A wild, powerful tale of the most strangely romantic incidents ever recorded. 
            No. 25. THE ICY DEEP; or, True unto Death. A thrilling tale of the most wonderful adventures in the most perilous of seas. 
            Sent Post Paid, to any address, on receipt of price, Ten Cents. 
            ROBERT M. DE WITT, Publisher, 13 Frankfort St., N. Y. 
          
       
   
