
    ----CITATION----
        Westmoreland, Maria Jourdan (1815-). Clifford Troup .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8257
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Clifford Troup 
            
               /9

CLIFFORD TROUP:~

4

DY
MARIA JOIJRDAN WE~TMORELAM),
A~JTHOR. OW
"HUAIIT-HuNoax," ETC.

UNIFORM A NEW BOOK,
WITH THIS VOLUME~ AND BY THE
SAME AUTHOR.
HEART HUNGRY.
.~ ~bd.
BY THE AUTHOR OF "CLIFFORD TROI~P.'~
Sold by all Booksellers, and sent byniall, postage free, on
receipt of pricer $1.~5, by
0% IV. CARLETON &amp; CO~, Putbllshers,
New York.

NEW YORK:
G. W. Carleton &amp; Co., Publishers.
LONDON; S. LOW, SON &amp; C~
M.DCCcXLXXIII.
/

I..

&amp;

1

4


Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by
G.W    CARLE3TON &amp; CO.,
In the Office of the Librarianl of Congress, atahngol

d

"Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discour-
aged."-ooians, 3d Chapter, 21st 1Verse.
I. Thou shalt have no other gods before me.
II. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any like-
ness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth be-
neath, or that is in the water under the earth ; thou shalt not bow
down thyself to them, nor serve them: for, I, the Lord thy God, am
a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children
unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me: and show-
ing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my Corn-
mandments.

UbV~Y o$ ~ 20u no1 A~A5
A~ug i~?,194O

*     *      *     *     *      *

*      *     *

V. Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long
upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.-Eodu,
20th Chapter.

373

Stereotyped at the
wOMfEN's PRINTING UOUSJD,
56, 58 and 60 Park street,
New York.

S


~t~inzttb to
JWJRS. J3. )~a )SToI~Y,
(LA SUPERBB,)
0U~
NEW OnLEANS, LA.

ATLATqTA, GEORGIA,
Febmaary, 18T3.

4

4


CONTENTS.
- ft -
CHAPThZ                                                     PAGE
L-The Terraces      .    .    *   *    *    *    *    *  11
IL-B~bixLdtho$cenes.        .    .    .    .    .    *
111.-The Day after the Wedding      .    .    .    .    .  22
IY.-The Last Appeal          .    .    .    .   .    .     82
V.-Done!!!          .         .    .    .    .   *    .   44
VI.-Playing with a Two-edged Sword.        .    .    .     50
Y~I.-Of Course!                                    *    *   59
V41.-The Sage of "rleasaat Retreat".         .         .     65
IX.-NotNow            .   .    .    .    .    .   *    .   71
X.-Love and Honor      .    .    *    .   *         .     '77
XI.-TheArxival       .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .   82
XII. -Homesick           .    .    .   *    *               93
XIII.-In the "Sanctuary" .                     .    .    . 100
XIV.-Forbidden Memories        .   .    .    .    .         105
XV.-" Angels and Ministers of Grace," etc. . . . 107
XVI.-NotManly             .    .   .    .    .    .    .    113
XVII.-Inevitable 1     -.    .   .    .    .    .    .      117
IVIIL-Thumphi               .   .    .    *    *    *   .    124
XIX.-Despair!     .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    . 132
XX.-.A Mother's Heart *      .    .    *    *    *         144
XXI.-WhyNot?.          .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .148
XXII.-ATrueWife            *   *    *    *    *    *    *    153
XXIII.-.-Going Away      *         .   .    .    .    .    . 157
XXIV.-Wearing!         .    .        .    .    .   .    .    162
XXV.-Fore~er?      0    *   *    *    *    *    *    *    * 168~

I


10

CONEN.

I

PAGZ
CHAPTER
XXVI...-ACheck!     .    .   .    .    .   .    *   .
XXVII.-MayI~       .   .    .   .    .    .   .        . 180
XXYITL~-Lonesome!     .    .   .    .   .    .    *   .    189
XXIX.-T Beseech You!       .        .    .   .         . 192
XXX.~~WellPaUl? .      .    .   .    .   .    *    .   200
XXXL-Kil3~ing the Fatted Calf .     .    .   ,         . 202
XXXJL-Never!!        .    .   .    .   .         *   .    212
XXXIIL-A Charuiing Vuipil .      .    .   .    .    *   * ~19
.XXXIV.-.TheRiva1S     .~   .    .    .   .    .   *    .    220
XiXXV.~-A Beautiful Iceberg     .    .   .    .    *   . 235
XXXYI.-Not in the Calendar     .   .    .    .   *    *   210
XXXVII.-AU that a Woman is Born for?       *   *    *    . 240
XXXVJIL-Dear Paul! *                                        252
xXXIX.~-Nothingl .      .   .    .   .    .    .   *    . 255
XL.-~At Last!     *   *    *   *    *    ,   *    .   259
XLL-OvertheSeau     *    *    *   *    *    .        . 276
X.LIT.-Ilush!!!    .             ~    .   .    *    .   282
XLIII..-InAshes.      .    *   *    .    *   .    *   .~288
XLIV.-A Bitter Struggle      .    .   .    .   *    .    291
XLV.~~KBaekiI1LOfldofl    .        .    ..*  .   *   . 295
XLVI.-AiuuleSS!     .   .         .   .    .   *    .    302
~LIX.~~Breaking Down the Wall       .   .    .    *   . 320
L.-The Shadows Thicken.       .   .    .   *    .    831
___        .    .   *    *   .    .    *   . 335

1~

CLIFFORD TROUP.
CHAPTER I.
TJIE TERRACES.
LJFFOI&amp;! !"
It was~ but a single word-a single tono-a BitI~
gle name, but it betrayed all the agony in her
heart, and by the soft moonlight, the tears which stood
in her eloquent eyes were visible..
Steeling his heart against the better impulses 6f his
nature which wer~e struggling for the ascendancy, and
iiot trusting himself to glance at the grief-stricken girl so
fondly loved, lest it should unman him, he said:
"Yes, Gertrude, my father demand's it, and to save
his gray hairs from a prisoner's cell, my happiness must
be sacrificed."
us words were quick and hurried, and it was evident
he would have spared his betrothed this cruel blow, had
not a high sense of honor driven him to make her his
confidante.
"Oh, God! then it is true?"
These words came with a gasp, and the next instatlt%*
the trembling, weeping girl was folded to a heart which
was as deeply lacerated a~ her own. Rie tears mingl&amp;d

N


THE TERRACES.

with hers, and they were iiot unmanly, for in that mo-
ment of speechless agony, the fate of two lives was being
decided. Should it be separation and misery, or shQuld
it be disobedience and happiness? Should. the son be
sacrificed for ~the father, or should the father become a
martyr 'for his boy? These were the questions which
forced, 'themselves upon Clifford in the trying hour here
recorded.
A mother's heart would have answered,: "Burn me
at the stake, hut spare my child-"
But, a father's heart?
W14 ~dl1 be its reply? We shall see! -Nothing could
j&amp;~8~utiful than the devotion of these two young
: ~ ~or they loved each -other because their ~ouls
K #e~ In ~c~~ord. Thus far, their lives were skinless, their
rnoti~es pure, their4ntentions good, their hopes hNght;
~ut they, like all the rest, nust ~ay for th@ transgression
in the garden ~\nd judging from present ~pearances,
thefr sorrows wer9 to begin early in life.
It was a gala-night at The Terraces, those far-famed
gardens which have been deservedly immortalized ib song
and story, and which are equally celebrated for sly flirta-
tions and match-making, to say nothing of tender vows,
of whispered words of love, of stolen glances, and of
dreams - too beautiful to last. This earthly paradise,
*    which lay just beyond the outskirts of the beautiful vil-
1~ge of L-~-~, stretched over acres upon acres; and was
adorned with fountains and summer-houses, and hedges,
and flowers, and evergreens, which bewildered the mind
as it took in the scene. It was the wedding-night of the
only daughter of the proprietor of these famous grounds,
and as these two lovers sat in a secluded summer-house

f

4

THE TERRACES.                13

in a state of crucifixion, the music- of a fine orchestra was -
wafted .to them upon the soft warm night-air, and their
happy companions were flitting in the dance. Thus, the
lights and shadows 1of life are ever blended, and it is
strange how forgetful the joyous can be of all but their
own happiness, and how oblivious the wretch&amp;l can be of
all btit their own misery. WomanIy~in her grief, as in
her love, Gertrude's whole being was shocked by this nn~
expected blow, and but for the little self~.contro1 which
Clifford at length commanded, this painful interview
might have been imprudently prolonged. Finally, crush~
ing down his own feelings, and clinching as with a vi~e~.
the desire in his heart which pleaded for sympathy, he
attempted to console her, from whose pathway he would
*
have banished every shadow-to soothe her whom he was
called upon to sacrifice for a father's honor.
Raising her head, and kissing her brow, he said ten.
derly:
"Do not weep, Gertrude;" but the torrent poured
afresh, and he might as easily have stayed the tempest4ix~
its course. No answer came to reward his eff~i't, and in
that moment he fully realized that the first great grief
had come to them both; and though the wound might
heal, the scar would go with them to their graves. ~
No matter how palliating the circumstances, no matter in
what way a woman is disappointed in her love, she can ueve~
meet it calmly or with fortitude. This would be expect- -
ing her to unsex herself. She can never understand that
it is best for her not to love where her heart yields invol-
untary homage, nor can she always appreciate that duty
sometimes drives men to smother feeling as they woul4
the blaze enkindled by an incendiary. Gertrude expert

r

N

18


14                  TIlE THRI~ACES.

THE TERLRAOES.

enced all this only too keenly; for disappointment was
unknown to her, and her love was her being, her future,
her~ alL Deprive her of that, and what were life? A
sepulchre, whem3in would be buried aTh her hopes and
dreams. That she loves and cannot forget, is the ce~nctth-
emc&amp; which curses every woman with soul deep enough to
.experience the grand passion; and we say an~athemce mc&amp;r-
anatk&amp; upon that false system wl4ch cultivates feeling at
the expense of duty, and leaves one half of God's creat-
ures with weakened hands to fight the stern battle of
Life. Women haye to stan4 alone at the Judgm~ut; then
why not educate them to help themselves in this world,
instead~ of teaching them that such a thing 5s unwom-
anly, and that they must forever lean like slender reeds
upon some stronger support? Such false ideas are not
only mistaken kindness, but cruel in the end, making life
just that much harder to bear. A woman need not be
masculine or lose one iota of her delicacy because she is
morally strong, and no true woman will ever desire to go
beyond the pale in which her Creator has made her the
equal of man 'in all, but physical strength;
The moonbeams stole quietly through the clustering
vines, and fell like a silver sheen upon Gertrude's dress of
rose-colored silk and illusion ; the night air wasleavy with
the perfume of yellow jasmines and honeysucides; the mu-
Mc jarred harshly upon the unstrungnerves of the lovers,
and while the young girl's life seemed ebbingfrom her in.
hysterical sobs, Clifford bent sadly over her, and a silent
prayer went up from his heart to God which asked for
help and guidance At last, serving himself for one
more effort, he said tenderly and tearfully:
"Gertrude, you forget that this marriage, will be as

15

hard for me as for you, or, I know, you would sympathize
with, instead of reproaching me."
The appeal went stuiight to her woman's heart, and
'twixt her tears 8he said:
"I do not reproach you, Clifford."
"What are these tears, but reproaches?"
"Let them flow, or I shall die!',
"But I ask you, darling, to dry them, so that w~ can r~-
turn to the house; for our absence may be remarked, and
I would not compromise you for all the world;" and he
stroked her beautiful brow as he spoke. Instantly imag-
ining he was weary of a scene in which his sympathy was
not equal to her own, she forced back her tears, and aris-
ing, drew herself up haughtily, and said, in a wounded
tone:
"I should as soon think of dancing a~t my own funeral,
as of returning to the ball."
"But society and appearances compel us~ to do many
painful things," interceded Clifford, with his usual regard
for all the demands of courtesy.
"213ut you see I am not a society slave; and soI will
go home if you will escort me to the carriage."
At another moment she would' have listened calmly K
and heeded willingly any advice from this &amp;ource*; hut
love whispered she was betrayed-pride whispered she
was forsaken, and womanlike, she resented the combina-
tion.
"But you have no wrappings?" Clifford said, with
the hope of arresting a determination which he well knew
~was more the result of pique than reason.
"That makes no difference;" and stopping suddenly,
where the moQli shone full in his face, she said, taunt


10                 THE TEREAOE5.                                                   BEHIND THE SCENES.             17

"The night-air is not so cruel as men-it surely will not
* hurt so weak a thing as a-woman"
*    Then, with a sneer upon her faultless lips, she walked
* like the Q~ieen of Tragedy towards the entrance to the'
Park. With a sigh and no heart to reply to her cruel
words, Clifford said again :
"Will you not allow me to go to the house for your
shawl and hood?"
"No," was the laconic reply, as she almost flew along
the serpentine walks, in whose intricate labyrinths had
been passed the happiest, and now the ~nost wretched mo-
ments of her young and uneventful life. In silence they
'gained the carriage, and after assisting her in, Clifford
wo~1d have entered also; but waving him haughtily back,
'and slamming the door, she said:
"IL prefer to go. home alone!"
With an astonished air, he drew himself proudly up,.
and said:
"What excuse shall I offer to our hostess?"
Quick as a flash ~she looked him defiantly in the eyes,
and said:
"Tell her that I am heart-broken, and have gone home
to die I"
A low, mocking laugh, which is fearful in women, fol-
lowed these words, and then she ordered the driver per-
ernptorily to "go on9"
Sinking back in the carriage, she abandoned herself to
her grief, and' reached the humble cottage of her widowed
mother, in a state of wretchedness, which increased as
the night dragged by, while her lover returned to the go~y
saloon and laughed and danced and drank with a dagger
in bi~ heart.

CHAPTER II.
BEHIND THE SCENES.

ROUP!!!
A name which should thrill every Georgian's
heart with pride-a synonym for all that is
good and great-~---recalling, as it does, one who was the
embodiment of unswerving Principle, devotion to Coun-
try, and fidelity to Liberty.
A worthy disciple of Jefferson-a man who loved
Right for Right's sake, and with the strong conviction of
Truth on his side, fearlessly denounced frauds and ag-
gression at home, and defied insult and tyranny from
abroad. The champion of personal freedoTh and Stat&amp;s
Rights, and the i~itrepid author of those immortal
words: "I entreat you, therefore, most earnestly, now
that it is not too late, to step forth, and, having ex-
hausted the argument, to stand by your arms!"
Such a man was our George IMI. Troup !-one of the
few who was not born to die-~-an honor to the country-.
a glory to Georgia! It was not strange then, was it,
that the Honorable Clifford Troup, Sen., was proud to
claim even a very remote relationship with such a man
as this?
Nor was it singular that doubtful' means were em-
ployed to keep such ~ graiad name untarnished, was it ?-~
that is, untarnished before the world.' We think not, for"
human nature will be human nature; and sometimes.

x

N

16

17
"a


/~
/

18

33EIIINb THE SCENES.

false pride, which may be reckoned as one of its greatest
weaknesses, drives men into fatal errors, which are coin-
mitted through want of moral force and moral discipline.
It is the same old story which 'is familiar to many of us
in our beloved South. Mr. Troup had been in politics for
many years, but was at length defeated---had lived most
extravagantly, then travelled abroad with his family-paid
enormous sums for pictures by the old masters-threw
away money upon celebrated statues which princes en-
vied him-bought every pleasure which could be pur-
chased-entrusted everything to overseers and agents,
only drawing upon his factors, until one fine day he
was summoned home from Europe to' find himself-a
bankrupt! There was but one alternative. It was put
into execution, and the "Troup Manor," the grand old
home of his ancestors, was mortgaged. It was easy to
obtain securities in those days of wealth and chivalry,
and with pressing creditors eased off, the honorable gen-
fleman again resumed the old luxurious mode of living,
forgetting or ignoring the fact that he was no longer a
9miilionmaire. But there were some daughters and a son
to look after, and their future rather perplexed the affec-
tionate (~) father.. It was only for a little while, though;
and comprehending fully that money was the great de-
sideratum now, the next step was to find the requisite
number of individuals thus fortunately endowed. They
were found, and within the next two or three years,
which followed from that time down to the opening of
our story, the lovely and accomplished daughters were all
married. rou&amp;~e~u~ of unusual magnificence were
furnished them-the utter recklessness of their expend.
hire gav9 rise to much talk-the father became more

BEHIND THE SCENES.

19

deeply involved every day, and what was to be the end,
the future alone could tell. At this stage of affairs in the
crisis, the honorable father, for the first time, began fully
to realize that something must be done, and that speed-
ily, for in less'than three months the mortgage had to be
raised, or the alternative endured. This now meant~
dishonor, if not imprisonment; for his creditors, who had
borne with hini long and patiently, were denouncing him
publicly and vehemently, and ~seemed bent on revenge.
It was the beginning of the fight between the classes,
now some thirty years ago; for although they were all
"honorable men," yet the Hon. Mr. Troup's cotton fac-
tors knew full well that his aristocratic doors were
closed to them, and now that his fortune was gone, their
doors would be closed to him. To ask a loan was out of
the question; fo~ he had already borrowed from both
friend and relatiVe, and having failed to meet his pay-
ments, could not, of course, again trespass upon their
liberality. In this dire extremity, he sat thinking one
night, long and late. Piles of papers and books and
ledgers and bills ~vere around him, but to look into t~iem
now was of no avail, and could prove nothing but that he
was a. ruined man. Until the hour which saw him so
perplexed, he had rested in fancied security, expecting
by a marriage between his son Clifford and Virginia'
Dearing, sole heiress of the magnificent estate of
"Mossy Creek," to meet his 'liabilities. The 'two had
been betrothed in their childhood, and it was the life-
long hope of both families to have the betrothal consume'
mated in mar That Mr. Troup desired it for more
reasons than one, will be readily understood, when it is
known that he looked forward to the bridal dower as the

t


BEHIND THE SCENfEs.

BEHIND THlE SCENEs.

last hope of rescuing the "Manor." Suddenly, he was
awakened from this fond dream by a letter from Clif-
ford, which aroused him to a knowledge of matters as
they really stood, for in it his son said, " The engagement,
which was only partial with Miss Dearing, has long since
been broken, and I have no desire to renew it, even
granting it should be agreeable to the young lady."
" Broken !" thought the father, as a~ look of disap-
pointment and perplexity knitted his brow and com-
pressed his lips. A new dilemma-what was to be
done i After a few moments of reflection, he thought:
" I will tell him exactly how I am situated, and leave the
rest to him-as my son. I fancy such a course will have
its weight." Let no one suppose that Mr. 'Troup was not
arn honorable man; for he was the soul of honor, and
could his motives have been looked into, perhaps no word
of censure would ever be uttered against him, for his
main idea-was to pay his debts. If he had had the
~noney, he would have paid the last dollar he was owing;
but not having it, he was driven by pride, and a sincere
desire to shield his name from reproach, to extraordinary
means of procuring it. Thus do we behold the end of a
man who had been reared to sympathize with his caste in
thinking it not exactly the thing for a gentleman to look
after his own business, to keep his own accounts, or to
know aught of ledgers and day-books. Away with such
false ideas! Let children be taught habits of business
and industry-of prudence and economy ; teach them
that it is a disgrace to live upon a credit and be in debt,
and rest assured the midnight hour will never find them
plotting for the sacrifice of their own flesh and bjood,.
Were there no qualms of conscience in this father's heart

as he sat thinking and plannin I? There were ?--for
there was nothing mean in his n ture, and now he was
but the creature of circumstances dnd expediency.
IHe never dreamed-of doing what he was about to do--
for, regardless of the future, he sought only to relieve
the necessities of the present.

(

~20

R

21~


THE DAY AFTER THE WEDrnNG.
CHAPTER III.
THE DAY AFTER THE WEDDING.
OVEIRTY is ~, hard task-master, and allows but
few privileges to its victims. So, with the early
dawn Gertrude exchanged her ball-dress for a
simple calico, in order to open their rooms at the usual
hour; for her mother was a dressmaker, and by the as-
sistance and good taste of her daughter, succeeded in
pleasing the most fastidious fashionists in. their midst.
Gertrude was a great pet in the village, for it was one of
the few places on the globe where money was not wor-
shipped to the :utter exclusion of merit; and hence it was
that she was visited by the first and best, and invited to
their' houses. Her father, Mr. Augustus Lawrence, was
a man of good blood and mind, but-dissipated. That
tells the whole story, and explains why the mother and
daughter were left penniless to bend over the needle for'
a~ support.
Attracted by a pretty face, he had married the daughter
of a plain, honest farmer-some people said for a home,,
for you know people will talk; and it really seeme&amp;~o;
for he never raised his aristocratic finger to do a thing,
and lived upon the old man, until driven from the roof
by an exasperated family. This is not to be wondered
at; for a man with "delirium tremens" two-thirds of the
time, is not the most desirable companion in the world;
and nothing but the love of woman can endure and bear

THE DAY AFTER THE WEDDING.        23

with such a degraded creature. Wife-like, Mrs. Law-
rence chose to follow the precarious fortunes of her
drunken husband; and it was at this time that she took
a house in the village where we find liei', and offered her
services to the public as a dress-maker. It was a bitter
struggle to keep the wolf from the* door, for as fast as
the money came in, it was as quickly exchanged for
liquor; and with shame be it written, that blows were
sometimes given the wife, when a tiny pittance was with-
held for the bare necessities of life. Her father had
given her her choice, to follow her worthless husband, or
share his home and comforts. Like a~y true wife, she
went with I~im whom she had taken for better and for
worse, and toiled and slaved for him, henceforth becom
ing a~ stranger to her own family, from whom her pride
separated her. Many times she would have sunk beneath~
her heavy burden; but casting it upon the Lord, she asked
Him to help her carry it, and true to fli~ word He never
forsook her. Matters went on from bad to worse-the
wretched years multiplied-little Gertrude grew and
strengthened in spite of the noxious atmosphere of her
cheerless home-.-the grief-worn furrows deepened upon
the mother's brow, and the insatiate longing for that heW.
ish beverage which makes brutes' of those creatures who
are only a little lower than the angels, was finally-satisfied
in the grave.
Yes, Death was merciful to the wife and child; and
after many years of torture to himself and others, the
man, who was husband and father but in name, slept the
la~t sleep, and no longer made his home hideous with his
wild ravings. After this period, the wheel of fortune
turned in ~favor of the widow, and in the course of a few
4

23


24        'TIlE DAY AFTER TIlE WEDDING.

TIlE DAY AFTER TilE WEDDING.

years she was enabled to buy a little home and fit it up
simply, but conifortably. She had her danoliter
the best advantages of education within her reach, and
as they had not been misapplied, she now had the gratifi-
cation of knowing that Gertrude was considered one of
the most accomplished girls in the town. She was much
admired, and cotild have married well; but her affections
having been disengaged until lately, she preferred assist-
ing her mother and supporting herself, to wed ding for
convenience. She had those large gray eyes, which are
Dot only indicative of intellect, but of soul and depth of
feeling, and they were fringed with dark-brown silken
lashes, Which rested against a pair of delicately arched
eyebrows of the same tint,, which looked almost black as
they pressed against her alabaster skin. Her hair was
almost golden, her brow low and broad, her lips red 'and
thin, her teeth -faultless, and the rose and lily played hide-
and-seek in her dimpled cheeks. With a nature passion-
ate, tender, earnest, and loving, she was destined to enjoy
intensely and suffer keenly.
"You are up early, my darling," said Mrs. Lawrence,
as her daughter entered the dining-room at the usual
breakfast hour, and gave her a kiss, the morning after
the. wedding.
"Yes; I could not sleep, so I got up."
"I hope you are not sick," was the anxious reply, as
the mother noticed how pale her beautiful child was.
"Oh,' no; I have a severe headache, which I hope the
coffee will relieve."
"I suppose the wedding was a brilliant affair ? ~'
"YesJ'-sipping her coffee.
"Of course the bride looked lovely?"

25

"Yes "-as if not wishing to talk.'
"And you enjoyed the evening? "
Gertrude struggled hard to sa.y "Yes," but the falsehood
faltered upon her lips, and as the tears caine into her
eyes, she hastily left the room. Until lately, there had
never been any concealment between mother and daugh-
ter, ai d so long as the maternal breast is the confessional,
just that long ~vill the child continue in the path of virtue,
and be strengthened to resist temptation. Oertrude had
committed no real wrong, but she had acted in opposi-
tioii to her mother's wishes in receiving such marked
attention from Clifford Troup, for with a Woman's keen
perception, and perhaps with some ill-defined omen,
Mrs. Lawrence feared this fine aristocrat might wiii her
daughter's he~rt, then abandon her. So, when the time
came, which tIle mother had predicted, it was net strong&amp;
that the daughter should shrink from confiding in her,
and it was but nattwal that she should wish to shield her
lover from blame and censure.
Thinking perhaps Gertrude was only a little nervous
from loss of sleep, Mi.s. Lawrence went quietly about her
duties, and left her to herself. Several ladies dropped in
duriiig the morning~.the wedding was amply~diseussed~
the day advanced, and 'when the mother sought her child
she found her in a deep slumber, from which she did nQt
awaken until the sun was sinking. Surprised at the late-
ness of the hour, she sprang quickly up, and hastily made.
her toilette. The long nap had refreshed her wonder
fully, and as she took that inevitably last look h her mim
ror, Which. the ladies will steal, her mother ente~'ed, say~
ing:
"Mr. Troup is in the parlor." '
2

it


TIlE DAY AFTER THE WEDDING.     27

26         ~rm~ DAY AFTER THE WEDDING~

The color deepened in her cheeks, her eyes sparkled
with the joy which made her heart flutter, and throwing
her arms around her mother's neck, she kissed her, and
said:
"Oh, mother, I was so foolish and nervous this morn-
ing; but I am perfectly well now, and as happy 'as I can
be I"
"I an~ glad to hear it, my daughter," returning the em-
brace; "but come, you must not detain your friend."
"No, I will not;" and together~ they left the room.
Gertrude's heart beat so violently and with such wild
apprehensions, that she feared her mother would detect
what lay concealed therein, so she was very glad to see
her go in an opposite direction from the parlor. How she
came there, she scarcely knew, but a moment afterwards
'the young gim'l was folded 'in a silent embrace to her lov-
er's heart, and he was saying:
"Come with me for a walk. I must talk to you, but ii
cannot do it here!"
Granting his 'request, they were soon strolling quietly
and silently in the direction of The Terraces-that
£   heaven of all other trusting spots. Happy to intoxicatiQn
in the presence of her lover, Gertrude forgot for the
moment the painful occurrence of the night before-or
ig she thought of it, it was only as one recalls some horrid
nightmare, which is instantly banished, as too dreadful to
dwell upon. Some harrowing thought evidently obtruded
itself upon Clifford, though; for a cloud knitted his brow,
the dark circles beneath his eyes told of suffering, and his
compressed lips spoke sternly of a painful determination
about to be performed. Nature had been lavish in her
endowments to this young man, and to almost physical

perfection was added intellect of a high order, which
would make its mark, should he be able to defy the stQrms
which now threatened him. He was tall, finely propor-
tioned, with an intellectual brow, deep blue eyes, a nose
slightly IRoman~ florid complexion, and black hair, while
a moustache and imperial of th~ same color gave him a
di8tinguJ and rather foreign air. He was warm-hearted
and impulsive, generous and chivalrous, fashionable in
his dress without being foppish, and in his manners
combined an ease and grace which only comes with
gentle blood and polished associations. He was an.
avowed friend and an open enemy, and it is not strange
that men as well as women loved him, for it did the soul
good to contemplate such a magnificent specimen of the
human race. 'Upon looking into his clear blue eyes, and
listening to his merry, ringing laugh, you felt quite ~ui'e
that only the better impulses of his nature had been
called into play, while the baser element, if there was any,
had been kept in check by a will which could be both as
inflexible as iron and as gentle as a woma~n's. The pur-
ple twilight deepened into &amp; darker hue, the silver cres-
cent hung suspended in the sky, one or two stars caAme
tripping shyly forth, and the two lovers walked silently
along, happy in each other's presence-at least, if ~not
happy, satisfied.
having reached The Terraces, Clifford sought a re-
tired spot where they would be free from intrusion, and
being fatigued with the long walk, Gertrude seated her-
self upon a~ grassy mound beneath an .aged oak, where
they were partially concealed by the vines which hung
around them in natural festoons.

C


28          TIlE DAY AFTER TUE WEDD~1G.
Throwing himself gracefully at her feet, Clifford looked
up at her and said:
"Gertrude, do you love me?"
"Better than my own soul," was the earnest reply of
this impassioned girL
"What does love mean?" he answered, probing the
heart which he read but too well.
"It means everything! It means to give your life in-
to the keeping of another, and to think it happiness to
have no will but his! It means that there are but two
huin'an beings in the universe, and that they are the
world to each other! It means to live for each other, and
if need be, to die for each other!" and her whole being
was aglow with the feelings which inspired these words.
"You answer well," said the unhappy lover, and it re-
quired no small effort on his part to keep. from betraying
the response which 'echoed in his own heart at these
words.
"Because I feel it!"
"But this love of yours is a very selfish thing, Ger-
trude."
"Qf course it's selfish!"
"It thinks only of the gratification of its own desires."
"And very naturally, Clifford, foil its desires are so ex-
acting and SQ all-absorbing, there's no time left to Punk
of anything else;" and they both smiled at the truth of the
picture.
Clifford had undertaken a difficult rc~te in attempting
to turn Gertrude's thoughts into a different channel, but
lie managed his subject adroitly, for he proceeded skit.
fully. Those acts are not always the most heroic which
~re so accounted by the world, and could we look more

THE DAY AFTER THE WEDDING.        29

closely into men's lives, we would be amazed at the valor-
otis deeds there recorded, as we would be forced to ac-
knowledge that it sometimes takes more courage t~ live
in the performance of life's duties, than it does to die.
If. Clifford Troup had had no feeling in the matter, how.
easy his task had been, but considering that he loved as
deeply and as truly as Gertrude did, his conduct will
justly place him in the front ranks of heroism. After a
few moments of silence inwhieh he seemed serving him-
self for the last charge, be said:.
"how different human love is from God's love!"
"In what particular?"
"Human love means self-indulgence, self-gratification.
God's love means sacrifice."
"Sacrifice!" repeated Gertrude; and a shudder crept
through her, as her woman's penetration comprehended
all that this word was intended to convey.
"Tell me what you mean, Clifford?" came with appre~
tensions which could not be concealed.
"I mean, Gertrude, that if my love were about to bring
some great calamity upon your mother, that for her sake
and your sake I should endeavor to control it-A mean,
that if some cruel fate demanded our separation, that I
would help you to bear it."
The words were uttered as if by force, and well we
know they were. Gertrude did not faint, or weep, or
make any outward demonstration of what she was suffer-
ing, but sat as immovably as if turning to stone. The
moon shone lull in her face, and as Clifford reclined hr.
the shadow he studied its every ~ature; but farniliai~ as
he was with its every lineament, he was not able to probe

4


80         THE DA iT AFTER 'rilE WEDDING.                        THE DAY AFTER THE WEDDING.       81

her thou~ht~. While he gazed, she moved her licad
slowly up and down, and said absently, as if to herself:
"I understand."
are you ready to make the sacrifice-are you.
ready to help me?" But he waited long and a~xio~s~y
for an a~wer, fur she whom he addPess~d seemed petri~
fled as skhc "passed under the rod," and it was now
evident that by the strong will she possessed, she was
quietly serving herself for the great contest of her life.
Clifford watched her with painful interest, for he had
never seen her in such a mood before, and consequently
was at a loss what to think. At last, tm'ning to him, she
said, in a tone which ~spoke of resignation a~mid despair:
"My love has made me powerless-I have no will but
yours-do with me as you wish."
The effort and the words were too much for her; the
stron~ resQlutions of a moment before were gone, and
she was now only a trembling, weeping, blighted woman.
But those tears were wept upon a heart which was true
as her own; for scarcely had the last words left her lips,
when Clifford sprang to her side and folded her drooping
head upon his breast. He was almost powerless himself;
and feeling that what little strength he had was fast
going from him, he hurried to say:
"Gertrude, I can never leave you if you weep. Will
you not dry your tears? Will you not. try and be strong
for my sake?"
"iDry your tears and be strong!" Two difficult things
for a woman to do when her love is about to be sacr[
ficed. But this gentle girl had some stern material in
her, and presently she raised her head, and said:
"For your sake, I will try!"

"That's my brave girl," said Clifford, with the pride
and love he could not conceal.
"And now, Gertrude, since you can be strong, from
your lips must come the final decision. Must Ii harry
this fortune7 and save my father, or must I marry you,
and see my father dragged to jail?"
\Is it so bad as that?"
"It is!"
Another moment of painful suspense, and fearing her,
resolution might waver, he said in a whisper:
"Would you see your mxiother dragged to jail for your
love? "
"Oh, God! no-save your father, and leave me to
die;" and with these words s1~e sank weeping upon th~
grass.
q

30

31


THE LAST APPEAL.                 88

82                THE LAST APPEAL.

CHAPTER IV.
THE LAST APPEAL.
QTIIER, it is impossible for me to yield to
father's wishes on the subject of this marriage,
and the more I think of it the more convinced
do I become that I can never ask Virginia Dearing to be
my wife. What is to be done ~"
"Alas! my boy, I know' not."
"Have you no influence with father?"
"I am afraid to say," came with a high and an expres-
sion of doubt.
"Does he not love you?"
"I hope so," ~she answered, with quivering lips.
"Dyes h~ not love your children?"
"I rust so," was the uncei'tain reply; for when she re-
membered how he w~s sacrificing those children one by
one, for money, she was forced to distrust his paternal
feelings.
The daughters who had married husbands of hi~ choos-
ing, were mistresses of handsome establishments, which
failed to satisfy the hunger in their hearts, and now the
only son, the pride and the hope of the house, was to be im-
molated upon the altar of Mammon. It was not strange
that the mother's heart beat warme fov her last-born, for
he was so tender and so loving, corn ning in his beautiful
n~t~ire the gentleness of woman with the bravery of man.
Tweiay-three summers had passed lightly over hjs head,
and from the first moment his childish lips could lisp, they
4

had never uttered any but xvords of affection for her who
gave him birth. Although her hair was tinged with gray,
and her face wore that sad and chastened expression which
comes of suffering, Mrs. Troup was still beautiful, and
the likeness between herself and son was striking. An
urgent letter from his father brought Clifford in haste to
the " Manor," the grand old house of his ancestors, which
was situated near the city of M , and it was here that
the present interview took place between his mothei' and
himself. Upon his arrival his father did not only entreat
but insisted that he should consummate his marriage with
Miss Deariug at the earliest possible moment. Clifford
assured him that his engagement with the young lady had
been broken by mutual consent, and that he doubted if
she would renew it. To his sum~prise his father then in~
formed him that the family expected him to renew his
suit, and that he must do it, as they were pi'epared to
answer in the affirmative. Driven to desperation by
this most unnatural demand of his father, in the last ~x-
tremity, Clifford sought his mother,' as children ever will,
knowii~g only too well that when all the world forsakes,
she clings the closer. iler love, which brightens prosper~
ity and soothes adversity, is ever the same, and nothing but
the love of~ God can surpass it. Mrs. Troup was in the
"East room," as they called it, the morning that Clifford
sought her, and as he walked back and forth the roonr in
a state of agitation which was oblivious of everything but
his own sorrows, she sat gazing out upon the sloping
lawn, and her heart ached at the bare thought of parting
with their cherished home. This feeling was only mo-
mentary though; for, watching her boy with painful in-
terest and remembering the unhappiness of her other
2*

4


34

TIlE LAST APPEAL.

children, she felt that she would gladly ,walk forth from
the ~' Manor" a beggar and di~e of starvation, if that
could avert the blow of misery which seemed to await
them all. Since the last words, a wretched and pro-
longed silence had fallen upon mother and son, and no
longer able to control her distracted feelings, Mrs. Troup
buried her face in her hands, her head sank upon a table
by which she sat, and she wept. The low sobs aroused
Cliff6rd, and softly approaching; he folded hcr in his
arms, and laying her head upon his breast, said: "My
poor mother!"
He stroked her gray hair, and then, as his 'whole being
trembled with indignation, added:
"'Mother, if father still insists upon this marriage, he
must be a demon !
Quickly raising her head, and casting him from her,
she said haughtily:
"Clifford I I 1 blush to know that I have reared a son
who can speak in such disrespectful terms of his father
and my husband. Do not again utter such words as these
'in my presence, even if your heart can harbor such
thoughts."
* Kneeling at her feet, he pressed her soft white hand to
his lips, and with that chivalry which characterized the
race, said:
*   "Forgive me, dear mother, and I will never so forget
myself again. But, mother, will you not plead with
father for me? I cannot marry Virginia Dearing, for I
love another, and to her my honor as a man and your
son are pledged. Would you have r~e be so dishonora.~'
ble as to break my word with a woman?"
"No; my son, no; 'but what can I do?"

TUE LAST APPEAL.
"Go to my father; make one last appeal; pray to him;
beg him fo enouncee this ~rueI plan, for it will not only
wreck my happiness, but hers, who is the innocent victim
of this fiendish scheme."
Burying his face in his mother's lap, his tears mingled
with hers; and the sight would have melted any heart
save that of the weak, selfish man who stood in the
doorway looking on and listening to the last uttered
words of h~s son. His face was distorted with passion, for
his tyranny was exacting, and his will knew'~no opposition.
"That father to whom you would Isend yorzr mother,
and the instigator 'of this fiendish scheme,' is here. At-
tend to your own business like a man and a Troup should
do!" and entering he seated himself beside the table.
Taking up a paper he pretended to be reading, but the
sheet trembled so, it was evident his indifference was only
feigned. Both Mrs. Troup and Clifford were startled by
this unexpected interruption, for at breakfast Mr. Troup
had announced the determination of going into the city,
which was some twelve .miles away, and they both be.
lived him gone. Arising slowly and remaining quiet for
a few moments, as if collecting all his forces, Clifford
stood before his father and in a straightforward manly
way, said:
"Since it is your desire, sir, that I attend to my own
business, I repeat what I sa~d at our interview last night.
I ask you once more to withdraw the request which
makes it a filial duty for me to pay my addresses to ~Nflss
Dearing."
His manner ~ dignified and respectful,, filling the
father's breast ~ pride, and the mother's heart with
anxiety. -


86               TUE LAST APPEAL.                                             TilE LAST APPEAL.

87t

Returning the fearless glance of his boy, Mr. Troup
said:
"It is too late; Miss IDearing expects you to.day. I
made the appointment for you to call."
"It is cruel injustice to both of us! I do not love her,
and we both will be miserable!"
"iDo not love her?" sneered the father. "Who said
anything about love? Not I, surely! Love will 'not raise
the mortgage from this estate, or giye us back our for-
mer luxury. Let fools and womeu rave about love, but
as a man you must understand that it is something to be
enjoyed only when you have plenty of money and noth-
ing else* to do."
"Oh, Clifford," came in a h~art-broken groan from the
wife whom he had once professed to love,, as his irreverent
words brought her to her feet. Pain and apprehension
and suffering were depicted in her face, and sinking again
into her seat, she thought death would be preferable to
outlivin~ the affections of her husband..
b
Outraged by these words, which somlded like bias-
pheniy to him, Clifford advanced to his father, and lean.
ing over him, said in a low whisper which could not reach
his mother's ears: "Did you not love my mother when
you asked her to become your wife?"
"Idid!"
"Do you not love her now?"
"I do!"
"The words just uttered by you, then, were cruel and
uncalled for, and will long be remembered by me as the
teachings of one whQm God has comnianded me to liQuor."
Writhing under this well~meritedr lash, ~Mr. ,Troup,
with an attempt at concealing his angersaid courteously:

"You forget that it is neither becoming nor respectful
for a son to roprove his father;" then rising, as if to go,
he said, "Time is precious to me, as I have business to
attend to. But allow me to ask, before going, what you
intend to do, Clifford? Will you marry Miss Dearing?"
"Father, I cannot, without being a dishonored man. I
am engaged to another. I love but one woman in the
world, and she alone will I marry!"
Anger and consternation were both visible in the face
of Mr. Troup, as he said sneeringly:
"And may I a~k who this unknown, but honored (?~ in~
dividual is? She must be a paragon among women, to
have aroused such deep and true devotion in the breast of
the fastidious (?~ Clifford Troup, Jr."
Clifford remained silent under these taunts, which he
would not have allowed from any other man, and his
father proceeded:
"Miss Dearing is pretty, wealthy, and well connected;
and I say again, Clifford, that your cherished idol must
be a Queen among the roses to so enchain your fancy!"
His sneers were as graceful as his ~on mots, and to his
surprise, his son answered his last taunt by saying, "She
is a veritable queen, sir, for she i~ queen of my heart,
and ever will be."
"May I ask the name of this angelic creature?" sneer-
ingly.
"When you can do so, sir, with the respect due a lady
from a gentlemriang' answered the son, imitating well the
haughty manner of his father.
My son!" was the gentle rebuke of his mother; but
not noticing her interference, Mr. Troup said in quite~a
di~terent tone:


C

8

TIlE LAST APPEAL.

"Clifford, may I ask again the name of the lady to
whom you are engaged?"
"Certainly, sir," was the ready a~d courteous reply-
"Miss Gertrude Lawrence."
"What is her father?"
"lIe is dead, sir! He was Mr . Augustus Lawrence-a
eon. of Judge Lawrence, and, I believe, a classmate of
yours.~~
"Oh-yes-I remember Gus Lawrence well, a drunken
vagabonds a disgrace to his family and country, who ended
his worthless career by marrying an overseer's daughter."
"An overseer's daughter?" exclaimed Clifford. "I
think not, sir. He was a plain farmer, but not an over-
seer."
"Well, what's t1he difference? It's one and the same
* unless they've got money. Money, you know, hides a
multitude of faults, as well as a person's lineage. What
of these people? Are they rich?"
"I think not, ~ was the reluctant answer.
"They must have something, or else how do they
live?"
Clifford did not reply, for although he saw no disgrace
in the occupation of Mm. Lawrence, he knew 'that his
father would look at it in a very different light, and lie
even feared the opinion of his aristocratic mother.
"Tell me, Clifford, how do these people live?"
"By honest labor, sir!" was the manly reply.
"And what may that honest labor ke?"
"Dress-making, ~ir."
"Dress-making?" exclaimed Mr. Troup; and, rising
* from his chair, lie walked up and down the floor in a rage.
"Dress-making, did you s~y? What, a Troup marry the

THE LAST APPEAL.

39

granddaughter ot~ an overseer, and the daughter of a
dress-maker?" and regarding his son with scorn and aver~
sion, he ~vondered how his aristocratic blood could flow
in the veins of such a creature.
"Why not, sir, if lie loves her, and if she is a o'ood
and noble woman, such as I know MissLawrence to be?"
asked Clifford fearlessly.
"I would sooner follow you to your grave, than have
you-;" but his words were cut short by Mrs. Trotip,
who sprang to his side, and placing her hand across his
lips, said:
"Oh no, Clifford-my l~usband-.---do not speak such
wicked words."
"And I would sooner be laid in my grave than marry
Virginia IDearing," said Clifford excitedly. "1 will go to
her; I will tell her I do not love her; I will tell her that
she is the innocent victim of a man who would sell his
soul to the devil for money; I will tell her-"
"Oh, Clifford, do not talk thus. Forbear, I beseech
you;" and his mother sank at his feet.
"Mother, I must speak, and if you would not hear me,
you must leave." Then turning to his father, who was
standing aghast at this unexpected and defiant outburst,
he continued: "I will tell her that hei" money is all that
]s wanted, and that she and I will be the miserable and
lifelong victims of aii ill-assorted marriage. having told
her this, I will beseech her to save us both fi'om this liv-
in~ hell."
"My son, my son, if you love your mother, be silent."
"Would you be silent when the gates of perdition
were closing upon you, and you thought there was any.
means of escape?"


TIlE LAST API'~AL~

TIlE LAST APPEAL,

Leaving her excited and distracted boy, she crossed the
room, and sinking' at the feet of her husband, said:
"Clifford, is there no alternative but this ? '~ and her
tears flowed so that she could scarcely speak.
"None," was the single word that fell upon her ears,
as the death sentence falls upon the heart of some victim
doomed to die.
"Clifford, think-by the memory of our early days,
those days when we were all the world to.each other-by
the memory of those happy years which are gone, can you
not save our boy from the sin arid misery of marrying
one he does not love?"
Clifford sat across the room with his head bowed upon
his hands; but no word escaped him, and his strong frame
trembled as the sturdy oak when shaken by the tempest.
Recalling those youthful days of love and pleasure, which
not even the demon of money could entirely obliterate,
the obdurate heart of the father was at last touched by
the appeal of her who had once been fondly loved, and
raising her tear-stained face, he said solemnly: "Mary,
you are both wife aiid mother; by the memory of those
happy daya, decide between your husband aiA your 5Ofl.'~
her Mad sank, her tears flowed afresh, and a groan
of despair escaped her, as she thought of the difficult
task these words imposed. She did not reply, and her
'husband said again:
"Decide, Mary, whether it shall be a sail for me, or
happiness for your son."
With terror in her face she~ said: "It is not possible
that your creditors will allow you to be imprisoned?"
"It is not only possible, but certain, unless some pay-
ments are made on this mortgage. I do not a~k anything

so dreadful of Clifford: I only ask him to marry a very
charming woman who loves him, and through whose
means he will be enabled to rescue his father from dis.
honor, and to save the family-seat from the vile tread of
vulgar creditors. This love which he now feels for Ger~.
trude Lawrence is a fierce flame which will soon burn
out, as all such passions do, and then he will learn to love
the gentle girl whom I would have him marry."
Never I" said. the son to himself.
"But, Clifford," pursued the mother, "I would rather
give up the 'Manor'to our creditors, and go forth a beg~
gar, than knowingly and willingly sacrifice the happiness
of one of my ehildr~n. Let's give up everything and be-
gin life anew. What if it is. as paupers? I should wel-
come the daily labor of a menial, if by so doing our
children could be happy."
But the mere idea of being a pauper strengthened the
false Pride which ~made paternal love a secondary thing,
and the father said':
"Mary, you know not what you say.. Your words are
those of a mother whose love outweighs her judgment.
Your son sympathizes with you; ii hope he will always do
so, for you will have need of it, when friends and fortune
are gone, and your husband lies iii jail." The picture
was a gloomy one, and. as the last ray of hope fled, the
wife, in a low despairing cry, said:
"God help us."
Some little time passed, when suddenly a new thought
struck the father. Slipping his arm am'oiwd the waist of
his wife~ he assisted her from where she had sank upon
the floor, and raising her to her feet,. they crossed the
room to where their boy sat.

9

40

C

41


42                THE LAST APPEAL.                                              THE LAST APPEAL.                43

"Clifford?"
At the sound of his name he too arose, for these people
were scrupulously courteous, and no amount of suffering
could make the son forget the respect due his parents.
They now stood very near each other, the father support-
ing the mother, and the son resting one band gracefully
upon the chair from which he had arisen. The father
was grand in his proportions and looked as if born to
command; the mother, although her form was drooping
and her face tear-stained, was elegant and graceful; and
the son was a fit- representative of the two-a worthy
scion of noble ancestors. It was a toucI~ing picture, and
one that will not be easily forgotten by those who under-
stand and appi'eciate it in all its lights and shadows.
Properly enough, the boy, with his youthful face, stood a
little in the foreground, and the shadow which his body
cast upon t~e two figures in the background would
grow deeper and blacker as the years advanced, unless
these two figures should abaii~on their present posi-
tion.
After a few moments of silence, Mr. Troup. said:
"Clifford, I made an appointment for you to call at
'Mossy Creek,' to-day at twelve. It is now near the
hour. Will you go?"
The mother's heart beat anxiously as she watched her
son, and then, looking his father straight in the eyes, he
said:
"Do you desire it?"
~' I ~    *
"And you still wish, after all that~ has been said, that
this marriage shall take place?"
"I do."

"Dishonor with one woman is not dishonor with an-
other, according to your code of ethics?"
"Circumstances alter cases," was the evasive reply; and
listening to this painful cOllversatiQn, the poor mother's
heart was tortured beyond description. An ominous si~
leuce, like that dead calm which precedes the storm, pre-
vailed for a few seconds, and then, like the thunder-~lap
which is the signal for all Heaven's artillery to open fire,
these words broke upon. the stillness:
"Them, my ruin 1)e upon yoz~r head!"
A shriek from his mother pierced his heart afresh, and
rushing from the house like a madman, the son mounted
a horse which was waiting for him, and as he flew across
the park in the direction of "Mossy Creek," Mrs. Troup
lay fainting in her husband's arms.


44,                  DoNE!!!                                                DONE!!!                   46

CIIAPTEJ2~ V.
DONE!!!
ES! it was done!
E   l    The engagement was renewed, the day for the
marriage appointed, and two months hence the
nuptials woald be celebrated. Two more young lives
would begin the journey of life wrong, and while this is
- nothing new, it is P5 be regretted all the same. "honor
Ahy father and thy mother, that thy days inay be long in
I the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee," has been
handed down to us through all the ages since the laws
were delivered to Moses amid the thunders of Sinai. But
does this mean that we are to sin in obeying this com-
mand? Does it mean that we are to act in direct viola-
tion of the laws implanted in our~ nature by Jehovah
Himself? True, God demands sacrifices, but they are
very different ones from those prescribed by man, and we
do not think the desecration of the marriage-rite, or obe-
* dience to a father's wicked desires, are, included in the
obligations imposed by the flf(h commandment.
".~NoUe88e oblige" was the motto upon the auciemit seal
of the Troups, and reared as they had ever been to re-
gard death itself preferable to the sacrifice of family
honor and glory, they thought nothing of setting aside
God's laws, as men frequently do for their own con-
venience. So far, Clifford, Jr., was an exception to this
false pride; but his father's idea was that the "Troup

dynasty must be sustained~ though the heavens should
fall."
In thinking of it afterwards, Clifford wondered how it
was possible for him to have offQred himself to Miss
Pearing, when his heart belonged wholly to another;
and perchance, there are others whose eyes will fall upon
this page who will ask themselves the same question.
Strange, isn't it, that men can ever gain their own con-
sent, or can ever feel called upon by any circumstances,
to sacrifice a woman's happiness, simply because custom
has placed them in a position where they dan? Let those
who are tempted by motives of interest or convenience,
but who have not yet entered upon this uncertain road,
reflect, and if not too late, abandon a path which will
surely lead to misery, and perhaps to excesses which shall
end in everlasting ruin. While Clifford and Virginia
talked, the wretched hours dragged by; and* lit~e caring
where they were passed so they went, the accepted lover (?)
remained to dinner, because Mr. and Mrs. Dearing said
he must. For days he had been nnder a fearful excite-
ment-for two nights past he had not slept. The day
just gone was a fiery crucil)le-rniiid and body were ex-
hausted, and as men have done before, and will continue
to do to the end of time, he sought relief in the sparkling
wine. Thus, one error induces another, and where they
shall end, the future alone can tell. Mr. Dearing's
cellars were famous; and as he insisted upon Clifford's
trying first one brand, then another, he rejoiced in his
heart to find that his future son-in-law was such a~con-
floi&amp;~eur in the matter under discussion. Could men see
the serpent that lies coiled in the sparkling beverage,
they surely would shrink with horror from either tasting


DONE!!!                 47

46                    DoNE!?!

or tempting their fellow-creatures with such potent
poison. But alas! they fail to see it until it is too late;
they know not what they do, and thus do they gratify
their appetites at the risk of losing their souls? Accus-
tomed as he had ever been to the dangerous habit of
drinking wine daily, Clifford was often spoken of as
"that model young man, who never took too much."
But from that fatal day when the errors of a lifetime be-
gan, we fear that temperance could no longer be included
amongst his virtues. The champagne exhilarated him.
He had never been so brilliant, and the unsuspecting
family regarded hin~'with feelings of pride. In the inno-
cence of her heart, Virginia thought his gayety proceeded
from happiness, not knowing that the prisoner bird trills
forth its merriest lays as it frets itself to death against
the cruel wires of its cage.
Excusing himself immediately after dinner, Clifford
mounted his horse, and flew along the woodland path in
the gathering gloom. He was wretched beyond concep-
tion; for the darkness which was settling upon his soul,
unlike that which followed the goddess of night in her
cheerless flight, would not be brightened by any rising
sun on the morrow. No-the mantle of night had fallen
upon his young life, and unless God mercifully lifted it,
it would follow him to the grave. More distracted than.
sane, he soon reached the "Manor," and rushing up the
steps where his father sat, said in an excited tone, which
was due to the wine:
"Father, it is done!"
"Bravo, my boy," said the father, arising and slapping
him on the shoulder. Then. offering him his hand, he
said:

"Let me be the first to congratulate you.". But the
extended hand was not noticed, and going down the gab
lery to where she sat alone in the spring-time twilight,
he threw himself at his mother's feet, and said in a tone
of anguish:
"Mother, pray for me!"
Folding her arms around hi~ neck, she bent over him
and whispered:
"God help you, my boy."
The father stood looking at them in anger and amaze-
ment. It was but a moment though for the conscience
he had so outraged gave an uncomfortable twinge, and
entering the house, he locked himself in the library, as
was his custom when in trouble~ Controlling himself by
a powerful effort, Clifford Boon raised his head, and ~aidi
tenderly:
"Forgive me, mother! It is unmanly in me to distress
you thus."
"No, no, my boy; do not say so. Let me at least share
your sorrows, since it is all that is left me to do. Would
to God I could avert every trouble from your life-how
gladly, how eagerly would Ido it!" co4-the d~
"I know it, my precious mother. But
is cast; it cannot be helped, and I must bear it like a
man. Lot's go in, and while you pack my valise, I will
speak to father, for I must leave by midnight in ordeE to
catch the morning train."
"Why so soon? ", asked tl~e mother, leaning upon his
arm, as they walked around the gallery to the entrance.
"Because, mother, this place is hell to me!"
"Oh, Clifford! The 'Manor' hell to you?"
"No, no, mother, but 'Mossy Creek;"' and seeing


48                  DONE!!!

DN1!                         49 I

how pained she was, he said quickly: "I did not mean
what I said, for you know I love the dear old 'Manor.'
Have I not given my life for it?"
Clifford, if you would not kill me, do not talk so I"
and overcome by the despair and recklessness of her
child, she entered her chamber and threw herself upon a
lounge in a state bordering upon frenzy. Poor mothers!
how often are their hearts crucified either for their chit.
dren or by them! Theirs is a double duty, and I-leaven
help them to carry the heavy load.
Clifford sat by his mother and stroked her hair for a
little while, then whispering:
Forgive me, mother," went softly from the room.
Her sobs followed him, and entering the dining-room, lie
walked up to the sideboard and sought oblivion in heavy
draughts of wine. Rapping at the library a few mo-
ruents after he was adrnitted~ by his father, who
said, in his courtliest manner and with his blandest
smile :~
"Come in, Clifford; I am glad to see you."
"I hope you will pardon the intrusion, sir; but as I
leave to-night, II came to~ see if I could serve you in any
other way."
"Why such haste?"
"I have business which must be attended to, sir!"
"You are right,,then, to go, for your 6u8iness (?) should
receive your first attention. J3ut tell me, what are the
prospects for your nomination?"
"Alt that could be desired," was the htconic reply.
"This is encouraging, and if you will consent to be
guided by my advice, you will not only fill the place of
a State Legislator, but in the halls of Congress you xviii

win back the laurels which have been snatched from your
father's brow by trickery and treachery."
"My life is yours; ill have given it for you-Ao with it
as you will."
Grasping the hand of his son, Mr. Trou.p said:~
"My noble boy, if I have given you a pang in the sac.
rifice you now make for me, rest assured future honors
shall obliterate even the memory of it." -
"If that be possible," said Clifford, arising. Thenj
with a pressure of hands, a "good-by," a "God bless
you," the son was gone, the father was left a~lone.
The parting between the mother and her boy was brief
and painful, and the light of another day saw~ him going
back tQ business-to love and to misery.
3,

/

I

49


PLAYING WITH A TWO-EDGED SWORD.

CHAPTER VI.
PLAYING WITH A TWO-EDGED SWORD.
S it strange that the flower, oversbadowe d by the
oak, still seeks the sunlight?
Is it strange that the prisoner, shut, in from the
bright world, turns to the one ray which lights his gloomy
cell?
Upon his return to L-, Clifford made it his first duty
to see Gertrude. Painful as the interview was,, it had
its pleasures too, and in their sympathy for each other,
they were like two persons walking upon the brink of a
precipice. Notwithstanding Clifford's attempt to prepare
her for the fatal news, Gertrude had hoped much from
the last appeal, which she knew he had gone to make,
and had only thought of his marriage with another as of
something, too horrible to contemplate. She did nof be-
lieve it possible, and banished the idea instantly when-
ever it presented itself. Woman-like, she fancied her
deep devotion could rescue her lover from any fate, fail-
ing to consider that a father's cruel exactions and family
pride could outweigh that love and crush it beneath the
demands of selfishness, and bury it under the plea of
filial obligation. So the blow was as unexpected as if no
warning voice had been raised to admonish; and thus, let
sorrows ever come, for did we anticipate, then realize all
that is in store for us, life would be unendurable.
For a long time Gertrude sat weeping as if her life

would expend itself in sobs. Clifford 'could not console,
~or his own heart was bleeding at every pore, and in si-
lent misery he walked slowly back and forth the room.
See! two crosses erected by human cruelty and human
injustice. Duty is inscribed upon one. Necessity upon
the other. The victims are a young man and a young
woman; the executioner--a father.
They go forth to the crucifixion ~ith bleeding hearts,
and one day that blood shall cry for revenge, and in that
day the father will cry unto the mountains to hide him
from the wrath of his accusers.
At length, seating himself beside her, Clifford said:
"Gertrude, you will drive me to desperation, if you do
not control yourself." No reply came to sustain him in~
his painful duty, but only fresh sobs to tear his wounded
heart. A few minutes passed, and then he said again:
"Gertrude, do you not, can you not comprehend that this
marriage which is forced upon me is even more painful
to me than to you?"
For an instant, the~ tears stopped in their briny bed,
and with quivering lips Gertrude said, with that unrea-
sonable persistency for which women are sometimes justly
noted:
"Then, why do you marry her?"
Regarding her with painful surprise, and wondering
how she could forget, even for a moment, all that he
had told her of tht~ unfortunate circumstances which
drove him to this~ step, Clifford said: "IMust I tell you
again that my father exacts it, not only to save him from
ruin, but as a filial duty which I owe him."
With flashing eye; Gertrude said hastily:
"I have a contempt for a man who thus tamely sub-

4

4

50       PLAYING WITH A TWO-EDGED SWORD.

51:

50


PLAYING WITh A ?WQ-E3)G~D SWORD.

mits, to the authority of any other man, even though th1~t
other be his father."
The flush of anger was upon her brow, and Clifford re-
garded her in amazement as sh~ added:
"Every man should be his own master!"
No word left his lips at this cruel and uncalled-for re-
tort, and burying his face in his hands, he strove to hide
the pain which no language could express. Then an
agonized groan betrayed what he felt but would not speak.
Gertrude regarded him in silence. She regretted her~
i'ash words; but for the moment, pride kept her lips
sealed.. However, the tenderness of her woman's nature
soon asserted itself, and as she could not bear to witness
the suffering of one so dearly loved, she laid her hand
~~pon his shoulder, and bending ever unti
touched his cheek, said, in a sweet 1 her lips almost
Clifford, forgive me!"
As forgiveness is a Divine attribute, so is it only found
in God-like natures among men; and with his usual ma -
nanimity Clifford loQked up quickly, and folding his
pretty suitor to his heart, said :
"Thus do I forgive you;" and he kissed her ruby lips.
Do not be shocked at what the rash lover did,~or~o
matter how dishonorable it may appear when tested by
the cold light of propriety, it nevertheless occurred, and
is true to nature, notwithstanding all assertions to the con~
trary.. And besides, we are not writing about what peo-
ple ought to do, but about what they do---recording their
weaknesses as well as their strength. iMien may talk about
honor and duty and about flying from those they love
,wheu it is ~rirne to linger, but point out the man who
ever did it, and we will ~h~w you the woman who never

PLAYING WITh A TWO-EDGED SWORD.      53
Ustened to love's insidious language, when she felt and
knew that by so doing she was outraging the laws of pro-
priety and morality. Inclination sometimes conquers
duty, and this is not so rai'e an occurrence as we would
have pach other believe. Is it not a strange delusion of
the brain which makes men fancy that they are honest
and upright in the sight of the world, when they must
acknowledge in secret that God knows how impure are
both their motives and their actions?
And this seems still stranger when men know that they
must judge each other from their own stand-point, and
what they themselves would do under similar circum-
stances. J3ut let us stop a moment, and ask if they do
it? No, indeed t-for what is latitude and charity for
one's self, is dishonor and crime in another. We are5
commanded to "love our neighbor as ourself "-who
does it? The rule in this world is to love yourself and
hate your neighbor-or at least to be indifferent to him;
and let no man say to the contrary, unless he can bare
his heart to the inspection of One whom he cannot de~
ceive. So, let no man say that Clifford Troup acted un-
naturally, when, in a moment of impulse, he folded to his
heart and kissed the woman whom he loved as he did his
own soul.. There was no crime in the action; for crime
must be premeditated and of all men in the. world, i~one
would appreciate the loyalty due another more implicitly
than Clifford Troup, when the hour should arrive in
which passion would be under the dominion of judg-
ment. For the instant he was conquered by impulse, and
before men shall raise their carping tongues to denounce
his conduct as dishonorable, let them ask themselves how
-they would act in a similar situation. Don't smile to


PLAYING WITh A TWO-EDGBD SWORD.

PLAYING WITfl A TWO-EDGED SWORD.    55

yourself and say, "I would have done as he did," and
then. say to the world, "Tie was a villain!" if he was a
villain, he has a great deal of respectable company, for
ninety-nine out of a hundred men would have acted just
as he did; and remember, that no matter how much so-
ciety may applaud your virtuous denunciations, the mo-
ment your back is turned, your best (?) friend will laugh
derisively, and say, "Pity* he doesn't practise as well
as preach." A great inconsistency here-belbw, is, that
immoral men exact the highest standard of virtue from
their neighbors. Of course, virtue is a good thing to
have in the world, but very inconvenient except for one's
friends. Thus, censure coming from the most censurable,
charity comes alone from those few who, by their blame-
less lives, are the only ones who have a right to judge
iheir fellow-men. And why is this? It is because ~these
men look frequently into their own hearts.-.-they walk*
with God-they do not endeavor to deceive either Him
or themselves, and they have gained their own consent' to
acknowledge that naturally their hearts are vile. This is
the beginning of reformation, and until men confess their
wickedness they will never have the least desire to do
better. But remember we do not defend the conduct
of Clifford Troup, but we do ask for him that charity
which we all exercise towards ourselves. Fearlessly, and
in the fear of God, with human nature for our standard,
we propose to write the truth, according to our under-
standing of what the truth is. We propose to lay bare
the inner-workings of men's hearts as they daily appear
to us; and whoever expects to find human beings idealized
into saints, must look elsewhere than in these pages; for
S
we do not belong to that complacent, hypocritical school

of writers, who write for the pleasure of encouraging
somebody's ~pet sin, or for the purpose of telling people
how they can daily violate the ten commandments, and
then go to heaven. Two or three persons have said,
"Why don't y~" write of pure people ?-why don't you
have your chara~ter5 without a blemish?" We answered,
"Because we sl~ould have to go to heaven to get th~in."
The interrogators were dreadfully shocked, and seemed
to have forgotten that Christ said: "Blessed are the pure
in heart, for they shall see God." And when we remeln-
ber that the angels are not pure enough to gaze upon the
face of the mighty Jehovah except. when veiled, we do
not think we have placed our standard of purity too
high. if men had been angels, the bloody tragedy upon
Calvary would never have been enacted; and why do we
ever forget that Christ said, "He came not to call the
righteous, but sinners to repentance"? Why do men re-
sent it and even grow angry, when' told of their wicked-
ness? We will tell you. It is because they are trying
daily to harden their hearts more and more, so that they
can lead a life of unlicensed freedom, without reproach
of man or fear of God. We do not say tha't all men are
vile, for our experience proves that there is some good in
everybody, if we are not too blind to discover it; but at
the same time there is room for improvement, and it can
only come through a strict self-examination, and strength
from above.
Clifford Troup sought Gertrude to tell her that they
must part. It was a bitter task, and can be appreciated
only by those who have reared i~n idol but to see it
snatched from them forever. They loved each other be-~*
cause their natures' were in perfect harmony. lie had'


56 ?LAYfl~G wrru A TWO.EDGED SWORD.

wooed her honorably, and looked forward with bright
anticipations to the time when he should make her his
wife, It may be called the law of affinity, or anything
else that is suitable; but one thing is certain--out
of a host of beautiful and brilliant women, Clifford's
heart had only warmed towards Gertrude, while from a
throng of suitors she loved but him. The disappoint-
ment which had fallen upon them was hard to bear; it
tested all their fortitude, and left their young hearts torn
and bleeding. lit was a solemn occasion, and the mutual
~acri1iIce there made, would influence their future for
good, or evil. If men would only half appreciate how
deeply love and matrimony affect their lives, there would
be no need of divorce laws, for every home would be an
Eden upon earth, and every nation would be more ele~
vated by the purity, the virtue, and the happiness of it~
people.
There was no disloyalty in Clifford's heart to Virginia
Dearing, when he went to pay a last visit to Gertrude;
fQr he went as an honorable man, to explain to her 'the
necessity of asking for a release from an honorable en-
gagement, which, until the night in question, had not
been positively broken. But love was stronger than
honor, and he lingered longer than honor required, and
was guilty of acts which can only be pardoned upon the
score of feeling, and the weakness of human nature.
When he entered that house he believed himself strong
enough to say "good-by," and to go there no more.
Strong! Who is strong when battling with a great love?
Then, men are but as the reeds with which the tempest
toys. and plays, and bends and breaks! For the time
they ~re powerless; for there is no slavery so perfect, no

PLAYING WITH A TWO-EDGEI) SWORD.     57
tyranny so exacting, as love. It was growing late, but
Clifford lingered, and poor Gertrude clung to him as if
eternity were waiting to snatch him from her forever.
In those few hours of painful bliss, he forgot pride, fame,
honor, father, mother, betrothed, everything
lie only remembered that he was retreating into dark-
ness, while the gates of heaven were closing upon him.
He only remembered that life would henceforth be a liv-
ing death to him.
Is it strange that he lingered? Is he not to be for-
given, aye, and pitied? They had actually been laugh-
ing, even as men will trifle with their souls upon the 'very
brink of hell. But the clock told one, then two, and
rising abruptly, as if he would tear himself away, Clifford
said:
"Gertrude, I must go!"
"Oh, no, no, no, Clifford. Do not leave me!" and the
frantic girl clung to him as a person will when the death-
grasp clutches some cherished one in its cruel embrace.
Finally, comprehending that his honor no less than the
reputation of her he loved demanded that he should
leave, Clifford said, as if powerless to act for himself:
"Gertrude, send me away I"
Between her tears, she said:
"I       ~,,
"Then I must tear myself away. Good-by ; "~ and
snatching a hasty kiss, he reached the door without daring
to trust himself to look back.
A moment more and all would have been over, but
just then a cry of anguish s~dd: "Clifford," and once
again he returned to her from whom it was so hard to go.
"You'll come again?" ~he asked pleadingly.
3*


58       PLAYING WITII A TWO-EDGIW SWORD.                                      OF CoURSB!

"I ought not," was the answer prompted by duty, while
the love-look in his eyes told the struggle in his lieart.
"But you will ?" urged the, beautiful sorceress.
"Do not tempt me, Gertrude, to do what we both know
is wrong."
"But you will ?" she again pleaded, and his strength
was all gone, as he answered:
"Yes, darling;" and rushed from the house.

CIIAPTER VII.
OF COURSE!
S the days and weeks went by, and tjie fatal hour
of separation drew nearer, Gertrude and Clifford
became more reckless in their desperate but
hopeless love. The weekly visit, which honor suggested
might be paid to a friend, soon became semi-, then tri-
weekly, then daily, then twice a day, and all uncon-
sciously this infatuated pair found themselves lingering
at The Terraces, strolling in the moonlight, enjoying'
silent conversatiollS on the porch, exchanging rose-buds,
~and indulging in~ all those delicious little nothings which
go to make up the sums totum of happiness for lovers.
For a time their misery would be forgotten, or if remem-
bered, it would be only to give new zest to a love
which was becoming dangerous from its very intensity.
Thus will all passions conquer, when uncontrolled, and
he who expects to emerge from such a contest as this un-
scathed, counts upon strength which ~o man possesses.
The Troups had taken special pains to speak often and
publicly of their son's approaching marriage with Virginia
- IDearing, for the honorable father, with his usual sagacity,
fully comprehended that this would be the most effectual
means of silencing the insulting clamors of his impatient
creditors. It had its effect, and for the first time in many
months, Mr. Troup experienced what a relief it was not
to be harassed hourly and daily by pi'essiug debts. The

4


00                   OF 410UR5E!                                                          ~F COURSE!                   61

rumor was not slow in wending its way to L-, and as
the latest bit of news, it was discussed, with all its varia-
tions, in the rooms of Mrs. Lawrence one day. Half a
dozen ladies had dropped in that morning apparently for
the purpose of debating the fashions; but Mrs. Lawrence
thought scandal took precedence in the conversation, as
she quietly listened to the dissection, in detail, of at least
half the village. She was fitting a dress for Mrs. C
when Mrs. B- said:
"Have you heard the latest news?"
All eyes were instantly~turned upon the speaker, and
Mrs. .G.-~---- said:
"No. Wiiatisit?"
Why, 'they say "'[those invisible but sleepless report-
ers] "that Clifford Troup is to be married very soon to
Virginia Dearing, the heiress!" for she was known by this
title all over the State.
"Why, you don't say so?" said one.
"You don't tell me?" said another.
"Why, you amaze me!" said a third; and exchanging
eignmcant glances they all turned their eyes, in vulgar
interest, upon Mrs. Lawrence, for the whole town knew
of Clifford's devotion to her daughter.
They obserVed unanimously that her hands trembled-.--.
that she dropped a pin or two, and that her face crim-
soned at Mrs. U-.-.-.'s announcement. She made no
comment, however, and after an awkward pause in the
conversation, Mrs. C-.---, who hated ever to hear of any
one's good fortune, said, with a curl of the Jip:
"Better be born lucky than rich."
"But it doesn't seem that he considers himself lucky
or that he desires to b&amp; rich," said Mrs. J3- ; and as all
I

eyes were turned upon her in eager curiosity, she added,
"for 'they say' he doesn't love her, ~nd that he is only
marrying her to keep his father from ruin, and to raise
the mortgage from the '~Manor."'
"So that's it," said Mrs. G ,and for the second time
they all glanced at Mrs. Lawrence, who quietly proceeded
with her work and said nothing.
"Oh, yes," said Mrs. C-, "I've heard people talk
that, way before, but show me one man who marries for
love, and I'll show you forty-nine who marry for money."
"Oh, Mrs. C-.--, how intensely material you are!"
simpered the lisping Mrs. F-, who sat over in the cor~
ner.
"Material or whatever you choose to call it, Pm
only telling a truth which may be applied to both sides
of the house," answered Mrs. C-, "for as a general
rule, women much prefer jewels, handsome dresses, line
houses, fast horses and elegant carriages, to so much love;
and men think it very comfortable to have a wife who
can foot her own bills if need be, with a rich old father
to back her in case of an emergency."
The chivalry of many men will enter a public protest
against this attack upon them, but down in their hearts
we suspect they will'~gree with Mrs. C- in thinking
it very nice to have a wife with an extra deposit at the
bank.
"You are candid, at least, Mrs. C.-," said one of the
ladies.
"Yes, but I only say what other peoPle think," re-.'
plied Mrs. C-.
"Judge not;" said Mrs. B
"There now, I think* that will do, Mrs. (I-~---.," said


62                 OF COURSE!                                                       OF COURSE 1                63

Mrs. Lawrence, as she completed the difficult task of fit-
ting a waist for her, and considering how much she had
to be filled out in some places, and taken in in others, it
was no wonder that the poor dress-maker's heart misgave
her when attempting to give satisfaction to such a lean (?)
subject. Stepping to the mirror and examining it in
every detail, Mrs. 0- said, rather reluctantly, and as if
not entirely satisfied:
"Yes, I suppose that will do."
"Why, I think it fits perfectly," said Mrs. B-.
CKIIf you desire any alteration, point it out, and I will
take pleasure in making the change," said Mrs. Lawrence
with a quiet air of resignation.
"Oh,* no; that will do;"and with a shrug of the shoul-
ders she took the garment off and threw it impatiently
upon a chair; she was evidently dissatisfied, and if the
truth must be told, it is doubtfM whether an angel from
heaven could have pleased her. Thus do persons profess-
ing to be ladies sometimes forget that those who labor
for them have feelings as well as themselves. Politeness
is so cheap and~ yet so rare! What a pity it can't be
bought like commodities of necessity, for then, it is to be
hoped, all men would have a share of it. But alas, money
can never buy what must come alone from goodness of
heart-a br ad arity, and a desire to make every one
hapj~y. Thjs, then, is the secret of true politeness-this,
then, is the secret of its rarity. During this little side-
scene, the conversation had drifted into other channels,
and after assisting Mrs. 0-.- with her toilette, Mrs.
Lawrence took up the unoffending garment, when one of
the ladies said to her:
"The styles seem very little, changed from last season."

"Yes," she answered; and handing her home new con-
gravings, added: "even in these latest cuts there is noth-
ing particularly new."
"No, nothing but what we have had;" and with the
exchange of 'some other trifling little' nothings, the half
dozen ladies went forth upon their mission of scattering
and gathering, and Mrs. Lawrence was left alone. With
a moan she sank down, and the hands which had so much
to do fell listless at her side, as she realized, in all its coni-
pleteness, the unhappy condition of her child. This, then,
explained the late capriciousness and nervousness of Ger-
trude, and with a woman's quick perception, Mrs. Law-
rence knew all the misery of her child's heart, without
ever having been made its confidante. Ah! mothers,
mothers! it is not enough that we must suffer ourselves,
but we must share the sorrows of our offspring as no other
bosom can, and this is the cruelest penalty of woman-
hood. To suffer for ourselves is nothing, but to see the
blood of our darlings dripping from every pore; to feel
that the light is going out of their young lives'; to know
that they are wretched-this is worse than death. It was
now too late to remedy, but Mrs. Lawrence felt that some-
thing must be done. to avert any further calamity. The
unexpected, and to her', distressing news, had so paralyzed
her, that she was powerless either to think or act, and
turning at last to her neglected work, sought relief in
employment. It had also been. a trying morning for Ger-
trude; for she had been visiting some young friends, and
turn where she would, they twitted her with her lover s
early marriage. Writhing under their taunts, yet laugh-
ing to conceal her real feelings, she at length, heart-sick
and weary, dragged herself home, as the wounded hind

0


OF COURSE!                                              TILE SAGE OF I~EA5ANT RETREAT.       05

lies her to her den, to die. How' she wished in those
ho~irs of tearless agony that she could lay her head in
her mother's lap, and weep as she used to do in the days
that were gone. What a relief she thought it would be!
But no-rather than bring censure upon her lover, or re-
proaches upon herself, she would bear her sorrow alone.
Thus, while the daughter thought only of concealing her
misery from her in whom she should have confided every-
thing, the mother thought only of how she could rescue
her child from the dangerous meshes which seemed tight-
ening around her each moment. So the gulf was widen-
ing, and where there ~should have been but one heart-
throb, the mother and daughter were as~-strangers.
* Would to Heaven we could reach the hearts of all the
girls in the world, and impress ifpon them the necessity
of confiding in their parents, hut more especially in their
mothers, for here their safety lies. We would not then
have lived in vain, for that life would be spent to some
purpose, which could enforce upon the minds of young
women the importance of never doing aught which could
not be sanctioned by their mothers and their God.

*     CHAPTER VIII.
TIlE SAGE OF "PLEASAliT RETREAT"
ONGIRESS had just adjourned, and the Hon.
all United States Senator, immedi.
ately repaired to "Pleasant Retreat," his cown-
try seat in Middle Georgia, with an unusual yearning for
its quiet and retirement. The session just ended had
been a busy and an exciting one, and this far-seeing
statesman painfully comprehended that the feeling of
hatred between the sections was daily increasing. His
country was his pride, and loving it only next to his soul,
he regarded these unmistakable forebodings with sad ap-
prehensions; f~r it must be remembered our story ~iates
back some thirt$~ years ago, when the conflict between the
sections was assuming a formidable shape. Mr. flail was
sole lord and master of his old-fashioned country farm-
house, which he would not have exchanged for a palace;
and as he had never married, he was dependent for homq
comforts upon the attentions of faithful and devoted ser4
vants who ministered cheerfully to his few wants, for con.-
sidering everything superfluous except actual necessities,
he would allow them to do no more. The building was
a frame house, t~vo stories high on the front, with an eli
running back in the rear. II~anding in the hall, were an.
tique and winding stair-ways; in the chambers were those
high-post bedsteads, remindu~g one of their great-grand-


66         TIlE SAGE OF PLEASANT RETREAT.                                 THE SAGE OF PLEA&amp;ANT RETREAT.        67

mothers; and in every appointment of the quaint establish-
ment was to be found comfort, without any pretensions to
luxury or finery. There were blazing fires with doors
wide open, in genuine Southern style, and any number of
sleek, well -fed negroes and pet-dogs standing idly around
the premises. In the lawn, the grand old oaks, which
evoked one's reverence, had never been touched by the
sacrilegious axe of the woodman, for the statesman loved
nature more than art, and would never permit them to be
disturbed. In one corner of the grounds stood a church,
which the gen*~i6sity of this great and good, man erected
for the worship of the honest, upright people who lived
in his immediate neighborhood. Some persons said it
spoiled the looks of the place, but to us it enhanced its
interest, saying more eloquently than words could ever
have done: "I acknowledge the existence of a God,
whom I worship. Come thou and do likewise.~~
In the parlor were two or three family portraits, an en-
graving of the members of the Senate in their chamber
at Washington, listening int~~itly to a speech by one of
the immortal triumvirate, Webster, and an engraving of
one of Georgia's most brilliant sons; but generally speak-
ing, these bachelor quarters were' destitute of those little
decorations which bespeak not refinement so much as
the presence of woman. In the eli of the house, which was
separated from the main building by an open hall, were
two rooms library and bedroom, where the Sage lived;
and there, *hen he was at home, not only were his doors
wide open ~o all who came,, but his waitm, generous heart
was. ever ready with sympathy and consideration for his
fellow-men. There ~words of wisdom fell from his 1ip~i
for the yoa~Ig; words of comfort for the afflicted*; words

of consolation for the bereaved; encouragement for the
struggling; pity for the erring; charity for all-no matter
whether they were high or low, rich or poor, white or
black, no human being was excluded from a share in his
regard, for he scorned nothing which God had made. On
the contrary, he considered it a privilege to do whatever
lay in his power for any and all who came within the
range of his circle.' How beautiful is old age when toned
down and Boftqned~ by the noble acts and charitable deeds
of a lifetime; and to those who knew Mr. llall's~ inner
life, he was not more admired for his grand intellect, than
revered for his goodness of heart, for no matter how
plausible a man may be, he will never be able to impress
mell's hearts when his own life is false.
Above his study mantel hung an engraving ~f Riche-
lieu, which was alone in its glory. This picture ~vas sug-
gestive, for it 'showed the bent of the man's thoughts,
who rarely did anything without a motive; and as the
great Cardinal loved France, so did this statesman love
Georgia  The life of Reuben Hall had been a rugged
one, and the fact that he sprang from obscurity, unaided,
into a Senator's chair only demonstrated what grand
things a man of ability, of will and energy may achieve
'in our glorious Republic. llere,.thanks to our free in-
stitutions, the most princely avenues are open to the
humblest; and if there be sneers for any, let them be be-
stowed upon those, who, being favored by birth and fort-
une, can yet let the less fortunate outstrip them in the
race of life. IReiiben Hall had studied and worked with
an energy which never flagged, sparing himself neither
by day nor night, no more than if he had been a ma-
chine; and it was no wonder that such unceasing labors

I

I


THE SAGE OF PLEASANT RETREAT.                                   TlE SAGE 01' PLEABAN~f RETREAT.

made deep inroads upon a constitution naturally delicate,
and that now he was almost a walking shadow. So that,
although not quite fifty, his frame was attenuated, his
movements infirm, his complexion sallow, while his clas-
sical features were as closely cut as if chiselled from
marble. his long, white hair was brushed back from a
broad, intellectual brow, and his black eyes, which were
startling in their brilliance, gave evidence of the immor-
tality within, while they seemed gazing into the very
depths, of one's soul. They were eyes, which once seen,
were never forgotten, and by the magic of their power
made men with guilty consciences most uncomfortable,
lest they should penetrate their hidden secrets. A week
or so after his return home he was sitting in his bachelor
quarters, with "Rio," his favorite dog, dozing at his feet,~
when his reverie was interrupted by the entrance of~Paul
Maxwell, the son of an old friend in the village near by.
I~he young visitor was studying law with the Sage, and
coming in through the open doors unannounced, he said,
in his frank, hearty, manly way:
"Good-morning, Mr. Hall !"
"Good~m6rning, Paul!" and extending his emaciated
hand, it was warmly'grasped by his young friend.
"I brought your mail, sir, and hope I find you better,
this beautiful morning."
"Yes, I am better Paul, but still suffering from fatigue
mind and body;" and he looked as if laboring under'
depression of the whole nervous system..
"You tax your strength beyond its powers, sir; but
now that we have you at 'Pleasant Retreat' once more,
we will make you well before you leave us again."
But Mr. Hall made no reply to these kind words, f~r

running his eye hastily over his numerous papers and
letters, a certain handwriting arrested his attention. It
was instantly recognized, although years had elapsed since
he had seen it. With trembling fingers he broke the
seal, and read the following:
"L-, GA., Hay-, 18-.'
"Mv D11~A1~ BROTHER :---With the old love beating warm as ever
in my heart for you, I 'break through the silence which my own
pride and obstinacy has imposed upon us. But, brother, I beg
that you will forgive me, for I am now conscious of having done
wrong, and God knows I have suffered deeply for it. I now have
a new trouble to encounter, and remembering the good, kind heart
which beat in your bosom years ago, I hope I shall not appeal to
you in vain for counsel and sympathy. With no father or husband
to advise me, whom else should I seek but you? My daughter,
Gertrude, has now grown into a beautiful woman, and lately has
formed a most disastrous attachment for a young lawyer in our
midst. The attachment is mutual ~ but the father of the young
man being heavily in debt, urges hi~ son. into a wealthy alliance, in
order to extricate himself from his financial troubles. Although
very unhappy at the proposed marriage, he yields to his father's
desires, leaving poor Gertrude the victim of love~ and disappoint.
ment. She is terribly depressed, and melancholy beyond descrip.
tion; and I fear her health will be seriously injured, unless there
is some change. It is most unfortunate for her that the young man
lives in the village, and still. insists upon visiting her, although his
marriage is near its celebration. I think perhaps, if I could send
or take her away, that it would be beneficial both to her health and
spirits. Will you advise me what to do?
"Your Sister,
"MARGARET LAWRENCE."
The estrangement, for which he was not responsible,
was forgotten, for all his numerous overtures of kindness
and assistance had been refused; there was an unusual


THE SAGE 01? PLEASANT RETREAT.                                       NOT NOW.                  71

flutter about his heart, and a moisture in his eyes dimmed
the sight of the statesman, who fancied he only loved his
country. He for how~grieved u~ almost angered he
was at her for throwing herself away upon Gus Law-
rence---he forgot how she had almost scorned his attempts
to serve her in her destitution-he only remembered that
she was his sister, and that she was in trouble; and as
the old love, which was but slumbering, burst forth once
more, he took a pen and wrote her a hasty note. Turn-
ing then to his letters and papers, he examined them
leisurely and indifferently; for memory was busy with the
years that were gone, and the sad changes that had inter-
vened made his heart heavy.. His parents rested be-
neath the sod, his sisters and brothers were all gone but
Margaret, and 'no matter what had ben her past errors,.
she was forgiven; and ~ in those moments of reflection
he detern~ned to be to her and hers, what he would ever
have been, if permitted, a brother in spirit and in deed.

is

0

ii

CHAPTER IX.
NOT NOW.
ITH feverish impatience, and in a state of uncer-
tainty, Mrs. Lawrence awaited a reply to her let-
ter, for remembering how she had almost scorned
her brother's every kindness, she was rather doubtful of
its reception. It came earlier than could have been ex-
pected, for the mails were slow in those days of staging;
but the time seemed long, for suspense is worse than fatal
reality. She read it over and over again, although it
contained only the following:
"PLEASAWr RETREAT," 2fay -, 18-.
"DEAR MAROARET: Come to me, and bring Gertrude.
"Your brother,
"REun1n~ HAIL."
Mrs. Lawrc~nce was not surprised at its brevity, for she
remembered her brother to be a man Qf few words, yet
she could not doubt but that the welcome messenger
came from a kind and sympathetic heart. Then, as memn-
ory drifted back to the happy~ days of their childhood,
and the subsequent years of estrangement, the floodgates
of her heart were opened, and she wept over the long
train of shadowy events which had saddened her life.
Indulging her tears but for a little while, she arose, and,
with a mother's unwavering devotion, prei5ared some del-
icacies for dinner, in the hope of tempting the appetite


NOT NOW.
of her unfortunate child. The quiet of the graveyard
had fallen upon their once happy home, and Gertrude's,
merry song and gay laughter no longer echoed through
the cosey little cottage. There were now only sighs arid
tears, and silence, and the wretched girl glided noiselessly
about the house like a spectre. She was pale to ghastli-
~iess, and the dark circles beneath her eyes told a silent
tale of suffering. The luxuries which her 'mother's kind-
ness had prepared were untasted, and after sipping some
'coffee, she quietly left the dining-.room. Tearfully and
sorrowfully Mrs. Lawrence looked after her, and as her
heart was too full ~to eat, she too arose from the table
without touching a morsel.
Despite the advice and protestations of Mrs. Lawrence,
Gertrude received Clifford daily, saying:
"It will be only ~or a little while, mother. Bear with
me for when Clifford is married, my life will be over."
iNo mother's heart could have resisted such an appeal
as this, no matter how mudi her judgment disapproved
what she consented to, and believing that Clifford loved
her daughter as sincerely as she loved him, Mrs. Law-.
rence thought it better to let them meet under her roof
than perhaps clandestinely elsewhere, as lovers sometimes
do. Thus seven weeks of excruciating torture had passed
over the heads of these two wretched young people, and
on the 4ay of final parting they were no more reconciled
to, or prepared for i~, than when the bell of necessity first
tolled the knell of separation. It will be a matter of
surprise that Gertri~rde's pride did not prompt her to' a
different course, and some may say, "~o girl of spirit
would-have acted as she did."
But it will not be the first time people have tried to de-

NOT NOW.

ceive their own hearts, nor will it be the last time that they
will be reminded of the fact that love is stronger than
pride. Besides, there is no shame in a pure love like this,
and instead of condemning its victims, rather let us scorn
the false sentiment which would teach us to crush a feeling
which is God's chief attribute, and which He has seen
fit to implant in our natures. The world considers Ger-
trude jilted, and regards her with pity, if not contempt.
But we, you and I, know better. We know, that if there
is truth in man, that she was loved as sincerely as she
loved, and that she and her lover were but the creatures
of unfortunate circumstances which forced them to do
what they must, not what they would. Has no one ever
been so situated before? If not, life has been unusually
kind to them, and they should have some little charity
for those who have not been so. fortunate. Pity the
woman, and pity the man, for the crucible through' whose
scorching flames 'they were passing deserves our commis-
eration more than our censure. In their blind worship
they forgot that the Lord God is a jealous God, and
made idols of each other, but to see the altar with its
images shivered to atoms by the avenging hand of Him
whose laws they had disobeyed.
Clifford had not borne the approaching separation with
even such poor fortitude as Gertrude commanded, and~hia
friends remarked that he was depressed and moody, and
that, at times, his face was flushed and his manner excited.
On several occasions he visited Gertrude with the odor of
liquor on his, breath, and when she remonstrated, 'he
would say: "I wish that I could drink myself to death,
or else drop dead at the altar. What have I now 4o live
for? All my hopes are blighted, all my ambition is go~,
4

I:

I


~4.           NOT NOW.

and the future to me is one black page of misery and
necessity."
At length the final separation was over, and while Ger-.
trude abandoned herself to her grief, and Clifford went
to the marriage-feast as if to his funeral, the good citi~~
zens of L-.--. were in a delightful flutter over a bridal
party whk~h was to be given by Judge Baker, the uncle
and law-partner of the groom. The invitations had been
issued the day before, everybody was invited, and this,
more than the last adieu, made Gertrude realize that it
would now be a crime to love where her heart went forth
in one wild bound like the surge dashing against the
shore. flaying completed her household duties, Mrs.
Lawrence joined her daughter, and sitting beside her on
the lounge where she was lying, said: "Darling, I have
a letter from your ~Uncle Reuben!"
"Indeed! and what does he say, after his long si*
lence?"
"lie says I must come to see him, and bring you; an4
I came to see if you would not like to go at once?".
"Not now, mother!" with a sigh.
"Why not now, my darling ~" asked the mother anx-
iously.
"Because-," was the faltering and unfinished reply,
while the tears sprang to her eyes, and the blushes dyed
her pale cheeks.
"Because what, Gertrude?" asked the mother with
painful anxiety, as she regarded her child with fresh ap-
prehension. "You are ill, my darling, and nothing would
do you so much good' as change of air and scenes. Why
will you not go, Gertrude? Tell me. Do not conceal
anything from pie."

N'

NOT NOW.                 7

Freighted, as 'the appeal was, with a mother's tears, it
had its effect, and looking up, Gertrude said:
"Because, mother, I promised Clifford I would attend
the party at Judge Baker~s.~~
Comprehending what additional suffering this new
trial would impose, Mrs. Lawrence said:
"My darling, I fear you over-estimate your strength.
Do you think you are strong enough for this ?"
"Strong enough?" exclaimed Gertrude; and springing
from the lounge with some of the old fire, she walked
hastily back and forth the room with a determined air,
'which bespoke a will ready to fulfil its. resolutions to the
letter. Her mother regarded her in painful silence, for she
feared that this was but the recklessness which comes of
despair. .INeither spoke, until after' a few minutes, Ger-
trude turned and with the old smile of ~happy days play-
ing around her beautiful mouth, said:
"Do you not see, mother, that the very thought of it
makes me strong? And did you suppose that I would
run away for the gossips to say I was afraid to meet Clif-
ford's bride? Comet mother, where's your pride? You
should advise me differently."
"But suj~pose, with the eyes of the whole town upon
you, you should tremble or become embarrassed, or faint
when you are presented to the bride?"
"Never fear, mother;" and the .same reckless laugh
which' fell upon the midnight air that night at The Ter-
races, accompanied these words, and made the mother
shudder. "Never fear, mother, for I'll bear myself like
a queen, and a~s your daughter should." Then coming
close up to her mother, she said ahw5st in a whisper, as if

75


NOT NOW.
afraid even of the walls: "For if my heart breaks, the
world shall not see it."
"And you will not   now?" asked the mother with
a heavy 'sigh.
"Kot now, mother."
*" When shall we go, then? Decide, for I must write
at once to Reuben."
"Sometime soon-say in two or three weeks;" and
when Mrs. Lawrence left the room, Gertrude threw her.
self again upon the lounge, overcome by a paroxysm of
tears, which was the inevitable sequence to the undue
excitement which preceded the result.

7

CHAPTER X.
LOVE AND HONOR.
FIlE party was at its height, and the parlors were
blazing with light and beauty. A quadrille was
just finished, a the grounds and colonnade
and halls and windows and stairways were crowded
with lovely women in tulle and silks and satins, and with
men in the inevitable blaek suits, all of whom were chaP
tearing like so many blackbirds. But there was a hush,
as Gertrude, leaning upon the arm of Frank iMiorgan,
passed through their midst, for her marvellous, beauty
silenced conversation for the moment. Her dress w~as.
faultless, consisting of a white illusion underskirt with
puflings which were divided by pink moss-buds, with a
light-blue satin tunic and bodice trimmed to correspond,
while coral jewelry and a single. rosebud in. her hair,
completed this exquisite toilette.
Her large gray'eyes sparkled with unusual brilliance.
-excitement gave something like a heeti~ ~1ush to. her
~heeks, and she bore herself proudly as she wept grace-
fully forward to where the bridal party stood.. Every
eye in the room was turned upon her,. but she bore tho~
.battery of glances without flinching, and after pay1n~ her
respects to the host and hostess, was presented by Judge
Baker to the bride in these words:
"Mrs. Troup, permit me to present Miss Lawrence,.
one of your husband's. best friends, and Mr. Morgan~"

LOTh AND HONOR.


118             LOVE AND UONOR.                                             LOVE AND HONOR.             79

The hands of wife and rival were clasped, and without
the slightest embarrassment, Gertrude said:
"I am happy to welcome you to L
To which the little blue-eyed, brown-haired bride,
in white silk, illusion, point-lace and orange-blossoms,
said:
", You are very kind."
This was all; and as Gertrude took Frank's arm with
the intention of' passing on, Clifford, who stood convers-
ing with a lady near by, turned and offered his hand,
evidently desiring not to be forgotten. Taking it, Ger-
trude said, with her sweetest smile:
"I'm glad you are here, for I always make it a point
to extend my congratulations to the husband."
For some reason or other, Clifford could not command
hi~ usual readiness, and so he was very glad when his
little wife said:
"And why to husbands more than to wives, Miss
Lawrence ~"
"Because, women are all angels Q) you know, but
men-it remains to be~seen what they are."
"You are complimentary, as usual," answered Clif-
ford, scarcely knowing what he said, y~t feeling forced
to say something.
"Oh, with all your faults, I like you still-that is,
your sex, I mean," she answered, with an attempt at a
smile, and an increasing constraint which fortunately no
one else detected.
"Honey and aloes," replied Clifford, bitterly, for this
trifling was absolutely painful to him; and as he saw
how artificial 'even Gertrude could be, he doubted for
the moment the earnestness of all women, forgetting

what hypocrites society makes them, forgetting what des
caption custom demands at their hahds.
"Miss Gertrude, this is our dance," said Frank Mor-
gan; and without replying to Clifford, she took the arm
of her escort, and as they moved off, looked over her
shoulder, and smiling to the bridal couple, said:
" I'll see you again.~~
So the little farce was over, and those who looked on
could detect nothing to criticize in what appeared to be
only an indifferent meeting between two society people.
Thus do we read each other, and while our hearts are
breaking, we go laughing and dancing, even down to the
brink of the grave.
"May II see your card?" said Clifford a few moments
later.
"Certainly," said Gertrude; and when he returned it,
his name was, down for the next quadrille.
4Z~ertrude had never been gayer than on this evening,
and her old admirers, whom she had almost cut lately,
felt very much encouraged by her kindness towards
them. She was the centre of a group ~f these old
friends, and the sparkling witticisms and brilliant sar-
casms which fell from her pretty lips; inspired them with
new admiration. However, they were not destined' to
enjoy this charming conversation long, for after a little
while, the bridegroom led her away, saying:
" This is our dance.~~
Understanding that for her sake and his own it was
ne'~essary he should pay her some attention, Clifford had
asked Gertrude to honor him with a dance, more forth
purpose of silencing the tongues of busybodies, than be-
cause he felt like participating in any gayety.


Silently and 'in a stately manner, they walked through
the quadrille, without exchanging even so much as a
word or a glance, and to a stranger they would have ~p-
peared like the negative and positive poles meeting; but
to those who were familiar with the recent events of
their lives, they looked like what they were-two people
trying to do their duty in spite of fate and feeling.
The quadrille over, Clifford slipped Gertrude's hand
through his arm, and passing out at one of the windows
walked down the colonnade to where some chairs sat in
the shadow of a column.
They sat there £Qr a few mQments in silence; then Ger~
trude said:
"This is very imprudent."
"And who cares if it is," said Clifford, recklessly
"I care for nothing, f~r I love but you."
Rash words these, if not dishonorable, and to be attrib~
uted -to the influence of wine, for we are convinced that
Cliffoid Troup's high sense of honor would never have
permitted him to use such language had he been him..
self. Arising, and standing before him in all the majesty
and grandeur of a woman who feels that the hour has
come in which she must either save or damn, not only
the man she loves, but herself, Gertrude said:
"But if you are the honorable man I take you to be,
you will tear this love from your heart;" and God above
only knows what an effort the words cost her.
"Is this what you would have me do?"
"It is."
"Is this what you intend to do?"
By God's help, it is;" and turning her eyes to
'heaven, ehe stood for a moment in an attitude of prayer.

No more heroic act was ever performed than this, and
there is every reason to hope and believe that God will
be merciful to the woman who can make her love the
safeguard instead of tl~e ruin of the man she loves.
There was a bowing of the head, a pressure of the
hands upon the eyes, a harrowing pang through the heart,
a low moan, a stifling pause, and arising, Clifford offered
Gertrude his arm, and theyreached the ball-roominsilence~,
Here a partner who had been in search of her claimed
her, and the next moment saw her whfriing in a waitz~
Regarding her for an instant, then walking coolly~away,
Clifford thought to himself, "Illow we do trifle with the
most sacred feelings of our hearts!"
4*

80              LOVE AND HONOR.                                            LOYR AND HONOR.             St.

81

60


82

THE ARRI~VAL.

CHAPTER XL
THE ARRWAL.
WO weeks later, as the shadows were lengthening
and the sun was sinking, the cars came puffing
slowly along, and stopped at the village of
C
Mrs. Lawrence and Gertrude stepped on to the platform,
wl~ere they were met by Mr. Hall, who said, with gentle
voice and a look of tenderness in his eyes:
"How d'ye, Margaret?" t~ which she replied, "How
d'ye, Reuben P' and shaking hands, the greeting1 be-
tween the brother and sister, who had been separated
for so many long years, was over. No doubt they loved
each other as well as those ~ho are more demonstrative;
but in their early education they had been reared to re-
gard kissing and such other little mannerisms as forinali-
ties properly belonging to the outside world, and hence
it was that they were not overly punctilious about those
triflingg. ceremonies which are so beautiful in the home
circle. Without any premeditation or particular ambi-
tion to inaugurate a new era in her mother's family, Ger-
trude put her arms around her uncle's neck and kissed
him,. simply because he was her uncle. From that instant
his good, kind heart opened to her, and this one little un-
studied act of tenderness paved the way to years of future
love and devotion. So it would seem that while kisses
may not be sought from an old, gray-haired and wrinkled

2

THE AERWAL.
sister, they may be very acceptable from a young and
pretty girl. Exactly-oh, the old sinner! But then,
there are few men who would not be v~quished under.
such circumstances, even granting they opposed these se-
ductive things upon principle; only, we never heard of one
who did.
"And this is my little Gertrude ?~"' he said, taking her
face between both hands, and looking into her eyes.
"Little?" she said, smiling. "Why, I'm almost as tall
as you.~~
"And a beautiful child you are, too," he answered, still
regarding, her. Then turning to his sister, he added:
"how like her father!"
Without noticing his last words, Mrs. Lawrence said,
with deprecating look and tone:
"But beauty is spoilt, Reuben, when the owner be-
comes conscious of it."
"Oh well, Margaret, I don't suppose. anything an old
man says will turn the girl's head,. but it might if it
came from a fine young fellow like this;" and as Paul.
Maxwell then joined them, Mr. Hall presented him to
th~ ladies. And indeed he was "a fine young fellow,"-
not what women would call handsome, for his nose was
too prominent and his features too irregular; but, accord-
ing to Napoleon's standard, the men~ with noses are the-
men who make their mark, and according to our obser-
vation this is a very good .rule to judge by. . Paul was
tall; and riding horseback. and hunting and living much
in the open air, hs1d given him a physical development
which was remarkable for so young a man. His ha~eL
eyes were fearless and truthful, his brow too prominent
for beauty, and his mouth firm and compressed, bespeak-


84              TIlE ARRIVAL.                                           TIlE 41VAL.            .85~

ing will and determination. In his manners he had all
that easy grace and polished gallantry which character-
izes the true Southern gentleman; and as he stood with
uncovered head in the presence of* the ladies, we cer-
tainly thought with Mr. Hall, that he was "a fine young
fellow.
"Is the' carriage ready, Paul ?" asked Mr. Hall, after
the usual compliments had passed between himself and
*th~ ladies.
"Not just yet, sir. The horses were afraid of the cars,
and 'Harry' said he wohld drive down the road until the
train was gone.
"That was right; and while we are waiting, dome the
kindness to have the trunks put on the wagon."
"With pleasure;" and he went eagerly to attend to the
request.
Then the train moved on, the few idlers who almost
gazed their eyes out at Gertrude dispersed, and entering
the carriage, our quartette drove slowly through the
deepening twilight to "Pleasant Retreat."
"You have not changed much, Margaret, although
your hair is a little gray," said her brother.
"I wish I could say the same of you, Reuben; but you
are sadly altered. Is your health bad?"
"Oh, yes. I'm ~ mere wreck."
"Wbat's the matter?"
"hard work and no rest; for you must. have some idea
of the up-hill road I've had to travel all these long years."
"Yes. You certainly have achieved wonders."
"No, not wonders, but the possibility that lies within
ithe reach of every American boy who has ability and
perseverance.

1

Here the conversation stopped,, and Paul was heard
saying;
"Do you think you will like the country, Miss Law-
rence?"
"Oh, I don't know; I've never thought of it at all;"
and as her words called forth no response, the remainder
of the distance was accomplished in silence, each one
being busy wth their 6wn thoughts.
As was the custom in those days, there were numerous
stands erected in the park, upon which were enkindled
nightly fires,~not so~ much for the purpose of illumination
as for the object of enticing the bugs and insects which
otherwise rendered it exceedingly disagreeable to re-
main indoors.
"flow familiar!" said Mrs. Lawrence, as the light
broke upon her, for the custom had been one which her
father observed, and memory was again busy with her
childhood.
"Here's marster-.here's master" cried a bevy of
voices; and about forty little black urchins, more or less,,
ran in advance of the carriage to open~ the gate which
led into the park. "How d'ye, master? how d'ye, mars-
ter?" they then shouted, and as he smiled and said:
"Oh, you little scamps 1" they danceL1for joy at the
recognition, and showed the whites of their teeth and
eyes more than the law allows.
"That must be a very heavy gate," suggested. Ger-
trude with a smile, and trying to count the number of~
children who held it open.
"Not half so heavy as their hearts would be were theyr.
denied the privilege of opening and closing it," answered
her uncle, with a gratified look&amp;

4
4

9

86

84


THE ~flRI~AL.

THE ~RW~&amp;t.                  87

Bat now they were at the house, and upon alighting
were surrounded by a fresh bevy of Afric's sons and
daughters, who took bodily possession of them, wliil~ pet
dogs in abundance barked forth their noisy welcome,
"Rio," the special favorite of the master, leading off in
the demonstration; for, to tell the truth, "Rio" had al-
most as much sense as anybody, and he knew full well
that something unusual was going on.
"Get away, 'Rio,' and you 'Troup,' you 'Frank,' you
'Bink~,' begone," said the master, stamping his foot at
his pets; but as this only increased ,their barking, he
was compelled at last to call in the aid of "I-Tarry," the
"Major Domo," as he called, his colored valet and car-
riage-driver, to get rid of them. This noise being finally
'~silenced, he said to his sister and Gertrude:
"Welcome to 'Pleasant Retreat;' and here, 'Ellen,'
take these band-boxes~ and you, 'Dora,' take these shawls,
and 'Fanny,' take this basket."
"'yes, sab," they answered, curtseying, and seizing the
respective charges.
" his is Miss Margaret, and this is Miss Gertrude,"
lie said by way of introduction, and after much "how~.
d'ye-doing "'on the part of the ladies, and "J'se well"
on the part of the darkiess," they ascended the half
dozen steps, and stood on the porch, where they were
greeted by '~ Aunt Eliza Jane," the faithful old house-
keeper and cook, who had for twenty years or more su-
perintended the household affairs of the "Retreat."
"Is supper ready, 'Eliza'?" asked the master.
"Yes, sah; ready and waiting. "
"Then ~show these ladies to their room, 'Ellen~' and
when they get the dust off,: we'll have supper;" and

"2Ellen~" and "Dora" and "Fanny" mounted the an-
tique stair-way, followed by the ladies, when, to make
sure that everything was right, "Aunt 'Liza" left her
particular domain and went after the guests and her
children, for these girls were all the offspring of "Harry"
and herself, and well they might have been called the
happy family.
"Got all you wants, Miss Margaret?" she asked.
"I believe so, thank you, 'Eliza.'"
"Ladies 'are a rarity here, are they not, 'Aunt 'Liza'?"
asked Gertrude.
"Lor, chile, no-why, master has big parties and
balls here sometimes, and de ladies frum de whole neigh-
berrin' country 'round here comes to 'em."
"Why, you don't tell me?" said Gertrude, with 'a
smile. "Why, I thought uncle was a cross, crabbed old
bachelor that a lady never would speak to."
"Marster ain't nuffin ob de kind: he's jes as peaceable-
like' and good as he can be, haint he, 'Dora'?" and it
was quite evident that the "~iarster" couldn't be spoken
of so lightly in. that presence.
"'Deed he is," answered '~ Dora;" then added, "and
we all lubs master, kase he's good to us."
"Jes as good as de days is long," said "Aunt 'Liza,"
turning down the cover from the snowy bed. "But I
must be goin', and.jes make yeselfs entirely at home, and
if ye wants anything, jes call one ob de gals; and soon
as ye gits ready, come right down, for supper is waiting. "
"Well, we are ready, now," said Gertrude; and to-
gether they descended to the parlor, where Mr. Hall and
j Paul awaited them.
"So you've finished beautifying yourself, have you?"


8$               TUE ARRIVAL.

THE ARRIVALS                 89

asked thee uncle, looking at his lovely niece again, for in
his heart her beauty pleased him.
"Oh yes, that didn't take long, uncle," was the smiling
reply.
"Well, I declare, Gertrude," said the mother, "be-
tween Reuben. and yourself, I really fear you will be.
ruined;" for somehow~ or other she entertained the
ridiculous idea that she could keep her daughter from
knowing that she was pretty, when, too, that daughter
could look into her mirror every hour in the day.
"Supper's ready, masterr" "Ellen" stood in the door-
Way and said, from behind her waiter.
Arising, Mr. Hall, said:
"Come, Margaret, and Paul, bring the girl into sup-
per;" but slipping her hand through his arm, Gertrude
said:
"The girl 'prefers to bring her uncle into supper, and
Mr. Maxwell can bring the widow if he chooses."
"Anything to please the children," said Mr. Hall,
laughing: and they all entered the dining-room in a glee
that was truly refreshing, followed by the dogs before
mentioned, for "Rio" was literally his master's shadow,
and always expected to eat at 'the same time the "white
folks" did, as the negroes say. The blessing over, Ger-
trade said:
"Well, uncle, I declare! do you expect me to eat with
all thes0 dogs around here?" as the quartette grouped
themselves around the ux~aster's chair.
"I certainly do, for I wouldn't have anything, unless
I could share it with 'Rio '-would I, 'Rio'?" and the
faithful "Rio" whined and barked as if, he understood
what his master was saying.

I

"But I haven't made you acquainted with this impor-~
taut branch of my family yet-have I?"
Well, then, first and foremost, this is 'Rio Janeiro,'
-shake hands with' Miss Gertrude,' 'Rio;"' and putting
up his right forefoot, he did as ~he was bid-"he was a
present brought to me by my friend, Commodore -,
from South America; and this mastiff is named 'Frank-.
lin Pierce' -we call him 'Frank,' for short; and this
little black-and-tan is named 'Bingo Binks.'"
"For 'Sir Bingo,' in 'St. Ronan's Well'?"
"The same-we call him 'Binks' for short; and this
poor old blind cur is named 'George liVE. ~
"Troup," exclaimed Gertrude, almost springing from
her chair; then looking at her mother without intending
to dp it, she sighed and sank back, and looked at the poor
old blind dog with something like pity and interest in her
moistened eyes.
"Yes, Troup; there's nothing so strange in that, i~
there? He's named for the great Georgian-the, wis.e
statesman, the intrepid governor."
"Yes, I know, I know," said Gertrude impatiently.
"We call him 'Troup,' for short ;"' and seeing instantly,
with his usual in~ight,'that there was something singular
in Gertrude'B conduct, he looked at her closely, to divine,
if possible, what it was. Appreciating the situation, and
thinking it best to change 'the subject, Mrs. Lawrence ~aid~;
"Why, what an excellent cook you have, IReuben! The
coffee is delicious, and the 'waffles as nice as I ever tasted."
"Yes, "Liza' usually manages to do very well, eon~ider- -
ing there's no woman to overlook things;" and a bark'from
"Rio" was repaid with a. biscuit.


90               TilE ARRIVAL.

THE ARRIVAL.              91

"Why is it that you have never married, uncle?" asked
Gertrude, with that respectful familiarity which his un-
assuming manners invited.
"Perhaps it's because I couldn't," he said smiling, fob
lowed by something like a sigh.
"Oh, uncle, that will never do. What, the lIon. Reu-
ben Hall, United States Senator, couldn't get married!
Why, there are plenty of women would jump at the chance,
and do half the courting."
"Do I not speak the truth, Margaret?"
"Indeed I~ can't say, Reuben, for you know I haven't
kept up with you all these long years."
"There now, you can get no proof there, for mother
sticks to the truth in the most persistent and provoking
way.
"A virtue you do not seem to have the highest regard
for," suggested Paul.
"'Well, no, too much. of it is sometimes disagree .
able."
"You naughty child," said Mr. Hall, joining in the
general laugh.
"Come now, uncle, own up like a man, and tell me why
I haven't an aunt here to greet me, instead of an old
bachelor with a lot of dogs."
'ILhope you don't dislike my dogs, Gertrude, for who-
ever likes me, must like my dogs; and besides, they are
all I have got to love."
"That's just what I am driving at. I want to know
why you haven't something else to love."
"Well, then, since you are so persistent and will know,
I'll tell you what I told a lady in North Carolina once,
and that is) that the ladies whom I had desired to marry I

~had4oo much respect to address, and those whom I could
marry, I had too much regard for myself to court."
"For shame," cried Gertrude, as a general laugh fol-
lowed these words, "and I don't intend to allow you to
talk about my uncle in that way;" and as "Troup" then
gave a bark, she silenced him with a piece of chicken.
"Does the poor dog want some supper?" then asked
the master of the old blind pet. '~ Speak for it, then;
ci~y for it-louder;" and as he almost talked, Mr. hail
said,~" Give him his supper, "Fanny.'" Then turning to
Gertrude, he said: "IL told you the truth, child."
"I don't believe a word of it; and besides, it may not
be too late yet, for 'Aunt 'Liza' and 'Ellen' have been
telling me that you have balls and parties here every now
and then."
"Certainly we do, but I'm past the marrying time
now;" and as a genuine sigh followed these words, we
thought, who knows, perhaps he has loved and ha~ been
disappointed, like so many others.
"You should not be so inquisitive, my daughter,~~ sug.
tested the mother.
"Never mind, mother, uncle and IL wrn understand
each other, will we not?"
"Oh yes; let her alone, Margaret, and let her do what~
ever will make her happy;" and with these words they all
arose and followed the master int&amp; the study, where the
dust and confusion proved conclusively the need of a
woman al)out the establishment.
"happy?" said Gertrude, just loud enough for her
uncle to hear her, as she clung to his arm ;.then, with a
sigh, she recrossed the hail silently, and mounted the
stairs to her room.

4

,*1

4


TIlE AIlRWAL.                                                               HOMESICK.                     *93

Toby brought his master's pipe, Paul said "Qood-.
night," and when the sister and brother were left to-
gether, Mrs. Lawrence said~: "My poor child, Reuben!
What shall LAo with her ?"
"Leave her alone, and time will do the rest," he an-
swered, while a 109k of concern knitted his brows and
compressed his lips. And while they sat talking of the
past, the night waned, and Gertrude sank into a stupor
of misery which rendered her alike unconscious of time
and place.
She had tried so hard to be gay, because her mother
requested it, and because she thought she owed it to her
uncle; but her spirit and strength had been taxed beyond
their powers, the tension was too tight, and the heart-
cords snapped when her uncle talked to her of being
happy.

CHAPTER XII.
HOMESICK.
ETURNING home late one evening, Clifford
was rather surprised not to find Virginia upon
the gallery to meet him, for this was her custom.
Bowing to his uncle and aunt, with whom he made his
home, he said to the latter:
"Where is my wife?"
"She has not come down yet," was the reply, which
sent him upstairs with a well-defined apprehension at '~
heart that all was not right.
Conscieiice does not only make cowards of us, but it is.
the unerring monitor that reminds us of neglected duties;
and Clifford felt, in the self-examination then forced upon
him, that he had not been all to his young wife that he
might have been.
He forgot that she was a stranger among strangers-.
that she was a mere child, who was separated from her
parents for the first time, and selfishly thought only of.
himself, while she was left alone ~to wonder at his con-
tinual absence.
A species of refined cruelty which is unjust to the
wife, and unpardonable in the husband.
The days of early married life are trying anyhow, but
if he who has taken the fluttering bird from the parent
nest would only shelter her with those thoughtful little
attentions which should be hers in consideration of all

THE ARRIVAL.


she has given up for him, there would be no necessity for
recording secret tears and pangs concealed.
'Many men neglect these minor things through thought-
lessness, while their hearts are full of love, and we trust
it is only necessary to show them the importance of what
they consider trifles, for them to be put into immediate
execution. So let them always bear in mind, that they
are the thousand and one little nameless attentions which
love suggests, that will make their wives devoted and
happy, themselves satisfied and contented, and home
the dearest spot of earth.
It was deep twilight when Clifford entered the room,
but by the soft moonlight which came in at the windows,
he saw his wife lying upon a lounge. She did not turn
to greet him though, but remained motionless with her
face to the wall, until he knelt beside her and said:
"Virginia!"
Only her name * no "darling," no "dearest," no
"sweet one," none of those little titles of affection which
signify nothing in themselves, but which mean so much
when they come from a loving heart. No; by none of
these did her husband ever greet her, and already. her
woman's nature yearned for perhaps what it would never
have.
Clifford was a poor dissembler~ and he was too full of
the old love to be yet on with the new-a sufficient cause
to raise up awall between himself and his wife, and ad-
ditional proof that where marriage is not based upon
perfect harmQny, that no man can properly do his
duty.
However, a gentle nature and a chivalry peculiar to
our people, made him the friend of every woman, and his

.H OM E ICR.

H0MJ~5I0K.                95
heart was touched as he pressed his wife's hand and said
tenderly:
"Virginia, are you sick?"
"No," came from quivering lips.
"What is the matter, then?" kindly and anxiously
again asked her husband.
"Nothing much," said the young wife in a tone which
implied a good deal.
"Nothing much! then you admit there is something?
What is it? tell me-don't'keep anything from me."
As if forced from her, she said:
"I'm only homesick!" and her tears told the rest.
"Only homesick!" As if that didn't mean overy~
thing!
Why, it meant to be neglected by one who should
have made the absence of dear ones a temporary oblivion
-to be left to herself in the midst ofg strangers-to be
made to feel that she was nothing to him for whom she
had given up family, home, luxury, and love without
measure. "Only homesick!" A heart-pang that might
be spared by a little care and tenderness; and no man has
any right to take a woman from a home where she is the
centre of devotion, without he expects to give her at
least what she has relinquished for him, if not more.~
Feeling this for the first time, Clifford took his wife in
his arms and said tenderly:
"Then you shall go home, Virginia."
"Not without you, Clifford;" and the whole story
was told as she put both arms aroun~1 his neck, and
nestled her head in his bosom. She was homesick for
hbn.-she wanted more of his society; and when he dis.
covered how dearly she loved him, he hated himself for

A

95

H OMBSICK.

9 A


V

allowing any. force pf circumstances to make him deceive
such a trusting and confiding child. Other men have
experienced this feeling before; and so surely as night
follows the day, will nature recoil upon the heads of
those who disregard and outrage iher holiest claims.
There was silence between them for some moments,
and the low sobs of his young wife smote Clifford's heart
painfully. Then he said:
'~ But I cannot leave just now, Virginia, for court is in
-session, and my cases may be called any day."
"Then P11 stay with you;" and her wifely devotion
made itself known in these few words: "But, Clifford, I
see so little of you, and I'm so lonely when you are
gone."
- "Isn't my aunt company for you?"
"Oh, but you. know ~he has her house 'aud children to
look after, and always when I go down she seems so busy
that, for fear of intrusion, I soon return to my own room.
Then I am so lonely that I can't help crying."
"But now you mustn't cry any more, foi' it will make
me very unhappy if you do;" and he wiped the tears
from her eyes.
"Then I will try not," said the loving little unappre~
cited wife, "for I wouldn't make you unhappy for the
world."
"Nor I you, my little wife. But come, will you not
get ready for tea ?" and he raised her from the lounge.
"Not this evening, for I fear my eyes are too red. Be-
sides, Clifford, it is sc~ sweet to be all alone with you. I
don't-want to see any one but just you."
And if he had 'felt as she did, how happy they might
have been! But instead of his heart responding to hers,

IIONtESIOK.

96

hOMESIcK.
an uncomfortable twinge made itself felt in that organ,
and he said with truth and earnestness:
"Virginia, you love me more than I deserve."
here the conversation was interrupted by a rap at the
door, announcing supper.
Turning to go, Clifford said:
"Shall I seni you a cup of tea?"
"Just bring it when you come."
"Nothing else?"
"No, thank you;" and with a breath of relief, he
closed the door bet~veen himself and his wife-with a
breath of relief he left the presence of her whouf he had
sworn to love, to keep, and to cherish. Do not be
shocked, fo~' Clifford is not the first man who ever felt
this way, nor will he be the last, so long as men shall
marry for money and convenience; for where there is
not -love, there can be nothing but aversion.
lie ~~as very miserable ; for no man can deliberately
sacrifice the happiness of another without suffering, no
matter how hardened both his heart and his conscience
may be.
"Where's Virginia?" asked Mrs. Baker, when Clifford
entered the dining-room alone.
"She's not feeling very well this evening, and doesn't
wish any tea."
"Oh, I'm sorry to hear it. I thought she was only a little
late dressing, or I should ha4e gone in to have seen her.'~
"Oh, she's not sick, only feeling a little homesick, I
fancy."
"An inevitable disease for brides, but a most distress~.
ing one, as I have cause to know," said Mrs. Baker, with
feeling. "I must see her and try to cheer her up."

4


98                  HOMESICK.

HOMESICK.                 99

But Clifford made no repl~r, for he stood at the side-
board pouring out some whiskey from a decanter, while
his uncle looked on with a frown of disapproval, for he
knew that this habit of drinking was growing upon his
nephew, and it gave him great concern, lie would speak
to him about it. Whei'efore? lie knew by experience if
men were determined to drink, that they would do it,
but he resolved at any rate to enter a protest before it
should be too late; for he believed, and we believe, that
it is our duty to remonstrate one with another, when we
see our friends being dragged down to ruin by some vile
habit, which is not, only tolerated, but winked at by so-
ciety. If women only half appreciated their po~Ter, and
the danger which threatens the men of our la3id from
this increasing love of liquor, what an immense influence
they might wield for good in the world. For suppose,
instead of drinking with men, they should say: ~' Don't
drink that. I especially request you not to," what man
would refuse? It's all very well for persons who regard
this thing too lightly to say:
"Men are going to drink anyhow ;" but what encourage-
inent haye they ever had to abandon this pernicious and
insidious practice? If they don't drinksvwhy, they are to
be taunted with, "oh, he's a temperance man,"' " lie's
afraid &amp;f his mother," "lie's afraid of his wife." Would
to Heaven they were all three, for then there would be no
wretched mothers over. sons gone astray-no heart-bro-
- ken wives over husbands who were victims to this fleixd-
jaW habit. 'Who doubts but that a substantial reform
would take place, if every woman in the land would turn
her face against this curse, which is born of the devil, and
which is his ~surest and; largest plan of destruction? Irave

you a father, a husband, a brother who driuks3 flave
you a son in whom all your hopes are centered, who per-
chance may be lured into taking his first glass of 'wine,
when temptingly held out to him by tl~e hand of beauty?
Think of it, oh mothers, wives, and sisters, and pause, be-
fore encouragiu~ such a deadly snai~e for the betrayal, if
not ruin, of those you love. Banish wines from your par-
tie~, from your dinner-tables, from your receptions, and let
your friends understand that you would as soon give them
the Borgia poison as have them drink; for while one
kills outright, the other blasts the moral nature, and
makes that life a curse which might'otherwise have been
a comfort to one's family, a bies~ing to one's country, and
a glory to God.
But while we've been entering this little wedge against
a custom which is the great and prevalent evil ~-of our
land, supper was oyer, and Clifford had returned with the
cup of tea for his gentle, blue-eyed wife. As usual, the'
room was bright and~ cosey, his slippery and robe were
ready for him, and putting them on, he sat down to.- a
book, and Virginia laid upon the lounge and watched
him. her tears had ceased' to flow, but her heart felt
heavy, and the pOOr child was still-homesick.
~ 2
) ~9
t q

t
&amp;


100            IN TIlE  54NCTUARY.
OIIATER XIII.
IN TUE "SANCTUARY."
T was decided that G&amp;rtrude should remain at
"Pleasant Retreat;" so, after a visit of a week,
Mrs. Lawrence returned to her home, which was
desolate enough without her only child.
Gertrude, I feai you are not ~vell," said her uncle
one morning, after she had been with him some weeks~
"Yes, uncle, I am very well ;" and confusion brought
the roses once more~ to her cheeks4
"You have grown perceptibly paler and thinner since
your arrival here ;" and as he fixed his penetrating eyes
apon her, she felt as if he was looking into her very
heart, and reading the secrets which she held as sacred.
"What is the matter with you?"
"Nothing," was the trite reply; but the moistened eyes
which sought the floor to hide their tears, told a different
story; and Mr. Hall knew to the contrary as he leant
forward and whispered in her ear:
"You are struggling with a great love!" at which
words she start~l, like some guilty creature caught in the
act which he fain would hide from every human eye.
"You are a brave gid, and you are trying to do t1ie
best you can, but I think I can~.h~lp you.~,
The poor child, who as y~V 'did not understand that
there was anything else to do except to indulge the nat-
ural impulses of the heart without restraint, sat weeping,

*

IN TJ3EE " SANCTUARY"         101

and her good, kind uncle was touched as much as he
could be, considering he h~d had no love-episodes, and
that he had put all of' the softer feelings out of his life,
as being too effeminate, and requiring too much time.
After regarding her silently for son~e time, he proceeded
by asking:
"Do you think it right for you to indulge this love
now?"
"No," was the scarcely audible reply
"Do you think it right to still cherish the memrn~of
it?"
"
"Then why~do you do it?"
"I cannot help it!" came in all honesty and sincerity
from a heart that loved with a depth whi~h is known to
but few, for to every one is not given the knowledge of
how to love.
"have you tried to help it? "asked the statesman, who
like the skilful surgeon probed deeply ,and mercilessly in
order to cure this terrible malady.
"I have," was the faltering reply, for she felt doubtful
as to whether her efforts had been altogether honest' or
not.
"How have you tried?" and as her uncle l~aiit for-
ward and scrutinized her face closely, she felt that it was
utterly useless to attempt~ any longer either to deceive
herself or him; Lut she saId nothing. 11cr silence con-
:tirmed what he feared, and with an ominous shake of the
head, he said;
"Alit my child, you, like too many others, attempt to
deceive yourself. You say you have tried to keep from
indulging a feeling, which you not only know,,but con.


192

IN THE '~SANCTUARY.'~

fess is wrong. But how have you tried? I will tell you.
You have tried, by thinking of nothing else, day and
night, and by keeping constantly before you the image
of one whoi~n it is now crinie for you to cherish. 'You
fancy yourself badly treated by man, and, your heart is
fast being hardened towards God for permitting what you
consider great injustice to yourself. Is it not so? All
this my child, is wrong and wicked, and is not only
injuring your own health, but is killing your mother."
"Killing my mother!" exclaimed Gertrude, as she
recalled the worn and haggard expression of that dear
face.
"Yes; wearing her away, day by day, for the melan-
choly change which has come upon you affects her more
than you can understand. You are all she has to live
for, and do you suppose she can feel happy when you
are unhappy?"
"I did not know this-I never thought of it," said
Gertrude, 'as if talking to herself. "I didn't know any
one cared for wha.t I felt."
"We all care, my child'; and you owe it .to us, no less
than to yourself, to get rid of this enemy which is prey-
ing in secret upon you, and if possible, to make us happy
by your smiles."
"Uncle, I do not feel as if I should ever smile again,
for life is over with me, and I shall never be happy any
more!" and the tears would come.
"Life over at seventeen!" said the uncle in surprise.
"Why, you are only a baby! and besides, those persons
who. smile are not always happy; but those alone are
happy who know their duty and do it."
Seeing that he was making an impression, he continued:

IN THJ~ "sANcTUAg~."

103

"And even if we are miserable ourselves, it is sheer
selfishness to inflict that misery upon others. How much
better, how much~nobler it would be, did we crus self,
and' live for those who are dependent upon our s iles for
their happiness! Did you ever think of this,
Drying her eyes, and looking thoughtfully out of the
open window by which she sat, she said after awhile:
"I must confess I never. I did not know it mattered
what I felt; nor did I dream that it affected any one
else."
Her answer did not surprise him, for he knew human
nature too well.
"But you will think of it i~ow, Gertrude?" and so
deep an impression had be made 'upon her in this short
conversation, that she said at once with an earnestness
that was unmistakable:
"Yes, uncle; and if you will tell me what my duty is,
I will try and do it."
"That's a brave girl," lie said, while the joy that beat
in his heart shone forth in his beaming eyes. Then,
with great seriousness, he said:
"But you ~anuot do this of yourself." Evidently not
understanding his meaning, she said:
"Cannot do it of myself?"
"No, not without the help of God. Do you never
pray ? "
"Not now," came with a sigh and downcast eyes.
"Butyouusedto?"
"Your mother taught yo~i this?"
"Then why do you neglect it now?"

K


'104             IN TIU~ ~5ANCTUAT~Y~

jORB~Dhi~{ MEMOBTh~5.               105

"Because, uncle, I have been so unhappy!" and the
fountain, which seemed inexhaustible, sent~ forth fresh
tears.
'~ So much more the reason why you should ask for
help to carry your cross; for does not Christ say, 'Come
unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will
give'you rest?' Come;child, come with me, and together
~we will kneel down and ask help from above;" and
taking her by the hand, they walked across the room and
stood before a door which ~was never opened except by
the, master of "Pleasant Retreat." Taking a key from
his pocket, he unlocked the door, and they entered a
small room, the furniture of which consisted of a table,
with an open Bible upon it, and one chair. Gertrude at
once understood that it was an eccentricity .of her uncle
to set this room apart for sacred purposes; and while she
stood in wondering silence at the beautiful idea, he said:
"This is my 'Sanctuary'; and it is here that I come to
ask God to help me in the struggles of my life~ J2et us
pray; "' and kneeling down, his voic6 ascended in an elo-
quent petition in behalf of the unhappy girl who knelt
weeping by his side. Up-up-higher-higher went the
prayer to that everlasting throne of mercy, and unto him
who is always merciful to those who ask for it-.-always
forgiving to those x~ho wish to b~ forgiven-always lov-
ing to those who desire to be loved. And who knows
but that this great and 'good man had loved and lost, too,
as wo!l as the unhappy girl for whom he prayed. That
4here was some mystery in his life, was admitted; but
what., it was, was another thing. had he an idol some-
where in the world? Perhaps!

CHAPTER XIV.          =
FORBIDDEN DvIEMORIE5.
F only that house were out of the way! But so
long as it stands there, it will be. a daily torture
for me to pass it!"
Thus thought the husband of scarce two months, as his
eyes fell upon the unoffending cottage of the widow,
which stood almost opposite his uncle's.
This may not seem very proper or very manly in. Clif-
ford, but it was what was suggested to him ~dmost every
day, as he passed and repassed the4ittle cottage, beneath
whose roof 'had been spent the happiest as well as the
most wretched hours of his life.
And shall we not be merciful? We who perchance
have our cottage wherein the' hours flew unheeded-
wherein we told our love-~--.wherein we d m'eamt bright ~
dreams, 'and talked of those far-off joys. which we fancied
would be ours?
Shall we not be merciful to those who cherish a rose~
bud-a geranium leaf-a half-worn letter all blotted
with tears-a ring which eats into the flesh with its har-
rowing memories, but without which they would be still
more wretched-a tress of hair-a book all interlined-
for have not 'we the same?
Have we not all walked upon forbidden ground? have
we not all our forbidden memories?
Yes, a thousand times yes.! Then lets us pity and be
5*


106            romnnrn~ MEMORIES.

4
charitable; but do not let us become converts to the per.
nicious doctrine of "it might b~ve been;" for this it
was which was crushing Clifford beneath its baneful in-
fluence. Rather let us inscribe upon our banner "it may
be," and pressing boldly forward, Inake the future what
it should be, with the errors of the past omitted.
But by day and by night these forbidden memories
held Clifford in bondage, ca using him to neglect his du-
ties, to ignore his young wife, and to seek temporary ob~~
livion in artificial means.
It was not rightbut it was what they drove him to do;
and man that he was, he did not seem strong enough to
resist their thraldom.

~~ANGEL5 AND MINISTERS OF GRACE~~' ETC.  tOT
CHAPTER XV.
~ANGELS AND MINISTERS OF GRACE," ETC.
ALP-PAST six!" said Gertrude, as she and Paul
Maxwell stopped at a creek to water their horses,
upon their return from a morning ride. "Then
we must hurry, or IL will be too late for uncle's breakfast."
"There's plenty of time. It's only about two miles
from here," said Paul, bestowing unmistakable glances of
admiration upon his beautiful companion.
But they were all lost upon Gertrude, as she sat grace-i
fully stroking the mane of "Lucy," the pet of her uncle's
stables, for the past was as yet too vivid for her to think
of indulging in the female luxury of adding another vic~
tory to her list of conquests. No, she was a true and an
earnest woman. She had perhaps as few frivolities as
belong to her sex, an when her heart was enlisted in a
cause it was almos a life-struggle to abandon it. She
had promised her uncle she would try and forget what
was now crime to remember, and With all the earnestness
of her nature, aided by his encouraging smiles, and their
united prayers, she was gradually overcoming what was
conquering him from whom she was separated. But the
horses were through drinking, and gathering the reins
more tightly, and arranging her skirt with an easy grace,
Gertrude looked at Paul and said:
"Now for a race;" and away she flew along the shady
road that was flecked here and there with sunbeams,


108 ~ ANGELS AND MINISTERS QI? GRACE'~ ETCi.
while Paul was close behind her, and at length they were
head to head. Tqo ambitious to allow this, Gertrude
urged '1' Lucy" to a quicker speed, and passing within
the open gateway, outdistanced her escort by at least a
hundred yards, much to- the delight of her uncle, who
stood upon the porch watching them.
"Good! fine!" cried Mr. hall; and before Paul could
dismount, Gertrude sprang to the ground, and running up
the steps gave her uncle a good-morning kiss.
"So you. have concluded to try an old man's prescrip.
tjon?~
"Yes, uncle, and I feel so much better," she answered,
while the delicate tinge upon her cheek n~ade her look as
tempting as a ripe peach.
"Ali! PauV that was an inglorious defeat," said Mr.
Hall, as the young r~ian joined them on the porch.
"But you wouldn't have me be so ungallant, sir, as to
beat a lady?"
"No, indeed, nor would I have the fox eat grapes if he
couldn't reach them," said Mr. hall laughingly.
"Breakfast is ready, sir," said Ellen appearing in the
doorway, looking, black and fresh as ever, and dropping
the inevitable courtesy.
"Come, children, some into breakfast;" and Mr. Hall.
led the way.
"Thank you, sir;* I will not come in this morning, but
will ride down for the mail;" and bowing gracefully,
Paul left them.
When seated at the table, Mr. Hall said:
"What do you think of Paul, Gertrude?"
"Well, really, uncle, I have never thought of him at
all," was the indifferent reply.'

~~ANGELS AND MINiSTERS OF GIAOE," x~rc.       109

"Never thought of him at all!" and the statesman ele-
vated his eyebrows in surprise.
"Come, come, child, that will not do! The ides of a
beautiful young woman being thrown in daily contact
with a handsome young man for nearly twos mouths and
then to say she has never given him a thought, is alto-
gether past my comprehension."
"And that is altogether attributable to the superior
vanity of your sex, uncle."
"You mean the vanity of the superior sex," he smiled
~tnd said: "But you do not think Paul handsome?"
"Rather good-looking."
"And'gallantP'
"And talented?" with emphasis.
"Is he?" with a mischievous smile and rather doubtful.
"Of course he is."
"And why of course?"
"Because I never have blockheads around me, and I
do assure you he can read, understand, and digest more
of Blackstone in an houi; than most men can in a day."
"I hope he's altogether worthy of such a wariii adher-
ent," said the niece smiling.
"lie is, and if you had the penetration for which IL
have given you credit, you would have seen it for your-
self. But tell me, what did 'you read yesterday?" foi' it
must be known that Mr. hall had advised a course of
reading for his niece, which he was directing, and it was
his custom at breakfast to converse with her of what' she
had read the day previous.
"In the first place, I read Plutarch's Lives, as you sug-
gested, of IDemosthenes and Cicero."'

E


110 "ANGELS AND ~flNISTER5 OF GRACE~'~ ETC.
" Well, what did you discover about the illustrious
two?"
"A singular coincidence;" and as she hesitated, her
uncle asked:
"What was it?"
"That while both were so eloquent, both were so cow-
ardly. Oil, in other words, no men could so eloquently
remind their countrymen of their duty, and no men
could abandon that duty more ingloriously than they did,
when the hour of danger caine."
"But they had not made military art a study," said
the uncle for the purpose of making her defend her po-
sition.
"No man need study any art to know how to defend
his country, if he has a sparkof patriotism in his breast,"
was the enthusiastic reply.
"But statesmen are needed quite as much as soldiers,
for who would make laws and carry on the government,
if you put all the legislators in the field?"
"There's no time for making laws when one's country
is invaded, and every man is needed to drive back the
foe," answered Gertrude with sparkling eyes..
Admitting you are right, iF every man went into
the army, who would take care ~f the women and chil.
dren?"
"Why, they would take care of themselves, and if need
be, help the men fight!" -
"Why, Gertrude, you would make a second Joan of
Arc!"
"I hope I should, if my country needed ~
"Your patriotism may b~ tested one of these days, and
then we shall see if you will put your words into execu~

~ANGELS AND MINISTERS OF. GRAOE~'~ ETC.  lit
tion," said the uncle with a sigh, for he looked fork
ward with gloomy forebodings to the future of hi~
country.
Regarding his niece with admiration, more for her ~Uw
tellect tIia~ her beauty, ha asked with interest:
"What else did you read yesterday?"
"Singularly enough, I ~opened Gibbon at the life of
IRienzi, just after completing that of the distinguished
pair already discussed."
"This was a little singular; and what aid you learn
from the life of the great Tribune?"
"Simply this: that men who drink and give unbridled
license to their passions, can never become tbe proper~.
leaders of others."
"Wisely spoken-~wisely spoken! And what else did
you read? Why, you interest me amazingly," said her
uncle, and looking at her closely, he contemplated a brit-
liant future for her, if she could only' be cured of the
mad passion which at one time threatened both her h6p~s
and life. To this end, and for the purpose of diverting
her thoughts from herself, he had directed her mind in
an unusual channel for women, at least in those days.
Thus, instead 'of leaving her seeking consolation in
Byron's insidious verses, or poring over some love-sick
novel, he suggested to her the i'eading of such solid
works as those under discussion, and was surprised to find
her philosophizing upon su1~jects worthy of his own reflee-'
tion. And this is where men underrate the gentle sex,
for there are numbers of women whc have the ability to~
cope successfully with them, if they were only educated
to be anything but the fashion-plates which custom and~
society make them.


112    "ANGELS AND M    STEES OF OgAcE," ETC.                                         NOT MA&amp;LY.                 113

Gertrude seemed reflecting, and as she did not reply,
her uncle said again:
"Was this your day's work ?~'
"No," she said, smiling, "for after closing Gibbon,
what should I do but open iMiacaulay at the life of Machi-
avelli ?"
"Angels and ministers of grace defend us," exclaimed
Mr. hall, laughing. "Well, do you learn anything from
this man's life ?"
"If I didn't, Mr. Macarilay fully convinced me that it
matters very little how a man lives or what vile doctrines
he disseminates, if he is sure of an apologist after he is
dead."
"1 believe he makes him the creature of circumstances."
"Yes, and excuses him upon the plea that he was the
exponent of the times in which he lived."
"Well, child, we too must cultivate charity, but we
must not practise evil because Machiavelli has taught us
the science so artistically, or because Macaulay has seen
lit to excuse and defend it. But come, you have enter-
tamed me so well tbis morning, that the time is slipping
by and my duties are being neglected. You fell upon a
singular quartette yesterday, but you have profited by
the lives of these men, and with nice discrimination have
judged each character according to his just deserts. Jim-
prove to-day as well, and when you are through with
your reading, come to me. I have some copying I wish
you to do."
With these words he entered the library and sat down
to his writing. Leaning ovei him, Gertrude kissed his
- brow and botook herself to her books, of which she was
daily becoming more fond.

CHAPTER XVI.
NOT MANLY.
T~IFFOIRD, my deai' boy, you will ruin yourself
if you continue to drink as you have been doing
for the last two months," said Judge Baker one
day; and there was deep concern in his face as he spoke,
for he loved his nephew, and it pained him inexpressibly
to see him throwing himself away as he was doing.
Clifford's face was flushed, and his uncle knew he was not
himself, when he looked up and asked:
"Whose business is it if I do?" for he was distin-
guished for the respect with which he universally treated
every one. It was rather an inopportune time to speak to
him, but as it was now too late to recede, the judge,
drawing a chair up near to his nephew, said:
"It is the business of all who love you as I do."
His tone, which was kin4 and affectionate, had its effect
upon Clifford, amid grasping his uncle's hand, he said:
"Do you love me?"
So love it seems was the need of this young man's life
-the one thing which family, friends, and money had
failed to bestow, and without which there was nothing.
"Certainly I love you, Clifford, as if you were my own
soiin, amid feel the same interest in you. We all love you
-your mother-your father-"
"Stop! Never repeat such mockery to me as that!
He loves nothing but money and himself, and for ha


0

114

NOT MANLY.

god, which is money, he would sacrifice wife, children,
friends, soul, ever ! Look at my sisters! Married
to brutes, because they had money! Look at me! sacri~
ficed to my father's pride and married to an innocent
woman, whose life mus.tpass and end in misery."
"But misfortune overtook your father, Clifford, and .i~
is not manly for you to talk so."
"No;         manly to have a he~rt, I know."
"Why, you talk about love like a woman," replied his
uncle, with something akin to a sneer.
"Because I love like a woman, and Jam not ashamed
of it.'~
"But love is not the one great desideratum of life."
"What is?"
"Have you no ambition?"
"Not for ambition's sake: but had I married the
womar~ of my choice, I should have had ambition for her
sake."
"But you are not alone in this respect, for very few
men marry the women of their choice. And would you
throw away your life for a disappointment that comes to
almost every one?"
"You may treat it lightly, but this disappointment at
which you sneer has made me so wretched that I no
longer care to live. And every time III enter the presence
of her whom I have so deeply injured, I feel as if I would
~'ather die, than stand before her with the lie which is
branded on my soul." And while he. walked the floor
ex ~trdly, his uncle sat perplexed, not knowing what
ci' argument to use.
ino time passed thus, when evidently a new thought
ocwwrod to the Judge, for he looked up and said:

NOT MANLY.

115

"have you no family pride?"
"Noble88e oblige made me what I am, and no6le~e
obliqe will be my ruin!"
"Do you not love your mother?"
"Not love my mother?" and pressing his hand to his
brow, he looked at the man in amazement, who could ask
such question.
"Not lve my mother?" he said again, Thinking per-
haps he had not heard aright.
It was a happy hit, the moment was auspicious, and
taking advantage of it~the Judge hurried to say-
"Have you no ambition to be worthy of one who idol-
izes you as your mother does?"
In an excited manner he said:
"Tell me how I can do it?"
"By not drinking, by being true to those precepts which
she taught you, and which your own nobility of soul will
tell you are right."
Turning away, he said with a sigh:
"My poor mother! God knows I would not give her
a pang, if I could help it."
"Let it be the work of your life to try and help it.
You have marked ability, and a brilliant future awaits
you if you will only be true to yourself."
"And what are the honors of men without happiness,"
said Clifford with a sigh, as he walked back and forth the
office, with eyes downcast and arms folded behind.
"Perhaps the honors may bring happiness. *Banish
love, and ~ut ambition in your heart! ."
"And is this your advice?" asked Clifford, pausing in.
his walk and casting an ilbconcealed look of scorn upon
the speaker~


r"

nToT MAL.

INEVITABLE

"It is-because one is dishonorable, while the other is
an honorable possibility."
Then turning away, Clifford said in despair:
"My God, if this is tlie beginning of life, what will be
the end?"
A few ~moments, passed without a word, and then the
Judge said:
"But all this is not what I wished- to say to you, Clif-
ford. What I wished to say was this: that your drink.
ing is being very much talked about, and that if you do
- not stop it and give more attention to your affairs, you
will surely be defeated. In a few days you are to meet
your constituents again. Go to work now in time, prepare
a speech worthy of yourself in the meantime, do no~
tou~,h a drop, and you may yet have it in your power to
turn. the tide again in your favor before it is too late.
Willyon do it?"
Taking him by the hand, Clifford said:
"' Since you tako' such an interest in me, I will try?"
and without any other words, the Judge repaired to the
court-room, and Clifford remained shut in his office in a
state of mind ~bordering on frenzy. The vigilant spirit of
the Evil One knew it was an anspicio~is moment, a~d lost
no time in pouring fresh poison into the already bleeding
heart of the young m4. It whispered :
"happiness is a myt ~i; duty, a cruel infliction; and life,
a curse." Thus, thought became torture; with each mo-
ment the craving in his heart plead for even a short re-
spite from the stings of memory; and forgetting all his
pledges, he sought relief once more in the vile habit
which was daily tightening its clamp upon him.

4

CHAPTER XVII.
INEVITABLE!
hAT a subtle thing love is," said Paul Maxwell
to Gertrude one evening, as they rested, after a
long walk, upon a rustic seat in the lawn at
"Pleasant Retreat."
Love again! Of course!
No matter how much the world may laugh, no matter
bow much the world may sne9r, yet into each life will this
little thing, called love, creep, sooner or later. And how
much or bow little it influences the lives of men may
never be known to others, but the scars which it inflicts
npo~m their hearts will go with them down to their graves.-
"Yes," said Gertrude, with a guilty start, as if her se-
eret had been discovered.
"You cannot see it, you cannot hear it, you cannot
touch it, you cannot taste it-you.
"But you can feel it," said Gertrude with an impulse
which she regretted, but could not recall.
"Yes, you can. feel it," was the quick rejoinder, as Paul
reiterated her words; and- gleaming over, he gave her a
burning glance, which startled her, for her woman's in-
stiiict told her better' than words what it meant. Until
then, she had rested in: a security that was based upon
the old love which she fancie4 she had forgotten, and2
never suspecting that her very indifference but whetted de-
sire in Paul's heart, after the usual manner with which
we all - seek the impossible. That they had known -each

116

117


IIi8                  INEVITABLE.

INEVITABLE.

other scarce three months didn't matter, for Paul was as
madly and as completely in love as if it had been the
work of a lifetime. To the student of human nature,
this will be no matter of surprise, and upon the day they
met, we wrote it down as inevitable. Unlike most of her
sex, Gertrude was neither a coquette nor a flirt, and her
affections had been so deeply enlisted for Clif.frrd Troup,
that it seemed. like sacrilege for any other man to speak
of love to her. Thus, feeling so secure from the fascina-
tions of any one, it never seemed to occur to her that any
one should be fascinated with her. Now that she knew
it, it appeared absurd; for Paul felt much more like a
brother, than a lover. She regretted it deeply; but what
could be done ~ She could not prevent it, and to cure it
-was quite another thing. And thus they sat- both
busy with their own thoughts, the one wishing to be, tl~e
other wishing not to be--loved. The sun went down, the
daylight lingered,, the summer twilight came slowly on,
the stars c~me tripping forth, the evening air fanned their
diceks, aiii~ still-they said nothing.
Not desiring to renew the conversation, Gertrude arose,
and after a long and embarrassing silence, said:
"1 must go now; uncle will be waiting for me."
"Stay a little whUe-stay until I tell you that I love
you ~ and taking both her hands in his, Paul pressed them
to his lips.
Withdrawing them, gently, she said:
"But y~u must not love me and turning, walked
rapidly in the direction of the house.
"Must not. love you?" said Paul, following her. But
she did not answer him, and as they neared the house he
said again:

"Why must4 not love you?"
"Because-I--------." But the words were never
uttered, for t1~ey were then at the porch, where Mr. Hall
sat awaiting them and indulging in all kinds of castles,
in which they figured most conspicuously. The ever-faith-
ful "Rio" was lying at his feet, and wreaths of smoke
from the inevitable pipe circled about his head.
"You are late, my child," said the uncle.
"But none the less welcome, I hope," was the pfayful
rejoinder, as she stooped and kissed him.
"Certainly not, when you give me such a greeting;"
and he seated her upon his knee.
"Don't you envy me, Paul ?"
"Indeed I do, sir, and I only hope
"S upper's ready, masterr" interrupted "Ellen."
* "Hope what?" asked Mr. Rall.
"I only hope that one of these days I'll have ~a niec~
to love me, for Pm sadly in need of some one to love
me.
"Tnt, tnt, what nonsense! when half the girls in~ the~
village are in love with you. Come in to supper, and don't
talk such nonsense any more."
"You must ex~nse me this evening, sir ; good-evening; "~
and bowiiig distantly he walked slowly away, to the blank
amazement of the sage, who stood looking after him and.
wondering what was to pay. of
"What's the matter now?" asked Mr. Hall Gertrude,
as the truth instantly washed upon him.
"Matter?" asked Gertrude.' "With whom?"
".Why, with Paul; that's some of your doings, G~r.
trude. I suspected as much, when you were out ~olate."~
"Suspected what, uncle?"


120               INEVITABLE.                                                  INEVITABLE.              121

"Why, do you think I don't know? I suppose it isn't
enough to trifle with one man, but true to the instincts of
your sex, you must go on scattering ruin wherever you.
go.
"Oh,* uncle, what an unjust accusation 1" and she was
ready to cry, for she could not bear to think that her un-
cle thought so poorly of her as that. Seeing that she was
really wounded, he hurried to say:
"Then forgive m~, child; but I love that boy, and II
don't want you to fool with him."
"Nothing is farther from my thoughts or wishes; and
to prove my sincerity, I must tell you that I have just de-
clined listening to his avowals."
"What?" said the uncle in surprise; but not wishing to
reveal his feelings on the subject, he said: "Come, let's
go in to' supper ~" and taking his arm, they entered the
dining-room.
For a little while Mr. TIall sat thinking, for although
he was very far from being a match-maker, yet somehow
or other, away down in his heart, he had hoped that Gei'-
trude and Paul would fancy each other, and he was dis-
a to have this little desire frustrated so soon.'
Gertrude made a pretence of eating some bonny-clabber,
of which she was very fond, and said nothing, for Paul's
love gave her real pain, and in her heart she wished it
could have been otherwise. Tile dogs and the waiters all
seemed to partake of the mood of master and mistress,
~hd not a word was spoken, until "iRio" made known
his wants by a whine.
"And does my good friend want his supper?" asked
the master; which question being followed by several
whines and barks, with variations, supposed to mean

"yes," he was given a biscuit, and "Fanny" ordered to
give him his supper, which was always placed on the
earthh for him.
"It's a shame, uncle, how you neglect 'Troup' for
'Rio,' and I intend to take special charge of~ the poor
old blind creature;" and her uncle watched her as she
stroked him tendei'ly on the head, then fed him, for he
knew the name was the attraction. But, as yet, she didn't
know that he knew it.
"But that's the way; our friends always desert us when
w~ are in4rouble, and when we are growing old."
"'And pray, where did you learn so much misan-
thropy?"
~" Ne~r mind, I learned it; besides, 'Rio' is petted
and spoiled by everybody, and because poor old 'Troup'
can't s~e, he is neglected."
If you only knew how devotedly ' Rio' loves me, you'
wouldn't wonder that it is returned. Why, have you not
noticed how jealous lie is of you?"
"No, I hadn't."
"Well, now, notice, every time you come near me, or
hiss me, he looks up with a sad, knowing look, and
crouches as closely as possible to rue. Try it. Come and
sit on my knee, and put your arms around my neck."
She did as her uncle requested 'when the dog immedi~
ately left his supper, and when she said:
"This is my master, 'Rio,' '~ he put his fore-paws up on
his master's shi~ulder and whined as if Gertrude was do~
ing something terrible to him, and it was with diflicnlty
that Mr. Hall could make him lie down. So faithful and
devoted are these poor, dumb creatures, that we think
their example is worthy of imitation by men. Seeing hOW
6

9

*/

4


122                       mTEvI J~ABLE.

~.t worried the dog for her to keep her position, Gertrude
took another seat, and crouching at his master's feet, "IRio'~
watched his rival out of the corners of his big black eyes,
while Mr. Hall said:
"J will tell you of an act of his devotion. Some years
ago, I had a friend stopping with me, and we were going
over to W-to a political meeting. The cars not running
to suit our engagement, we went from here in a top-buggy.
'Rio' had been with me on many of these trips, but as
he was very annoying at houses where I stopped, I deter-
mined to leave him at home that time; so, I not only sent
him back, but made 'Harry' come and take him by force.
We drove on for some miles, and forgetting all about the
dog, stopped at a creek to water our horse when a
shower of rain came up, and upon raising the top of
th~ buggy, who should be coiled up back there but 'Mis-
ter Rio.' Determined not to be outdone, I got out of the
buggy and drove him back home, as I thought foi~ good,
and we went on our journey alone. The next day, how-
ever, when the train passed 0-, 'Rio,' who had re-
turned home, got on the cars, went down to C ,the sta-
tion where they change cars for W , made the change,
and upon arriving at W----, jumped off the train and
came panting almost out of breath to the hotel where I
was stopping. What do you think of that?"
"That it almost equals any fish-story I ever heard;"
and provoked as he was, the uncle was obliged to
laugh.
"It's the truth, whether you believe it or not," he reit-
erated. "Isn't it, 'Rio'?" and a wag of the tail seemed
to say ~
"Ab! but, uncle, you know what elastic cQnscienee8 you

ThIEVITABLfl.            123
lawyers and politicians do have, and sometimes we have
to take what you say cum g~ctnq."
Thus, while the uncle and niece sat talking, the disap-
pointed io~er~plunged deeper and 1~arther into the woods,
as if seeking to get away from himself. He was in 1 ye,
and because ~at love was not returned, he was miserable.
And yet there are people in the world who will laugh at
this, and call it boyish. But they who can treat the
noblest sentiment of the human heart so lightly, know
nothing of the bliss of loving and being loved, and may
they never know the agony of loving and being disap-
pointed.
4


124                 TRIUMPH.

125

TRIUMPH.

CHAPTER XVIII.
TRIUMPH!
HIRTY years ago, a barbecue was regarded with
nearly the Same reverence that welcomed the
memorable fourth of July; but now, since free
dom means to be manacled in a prison outside of your
own State, and patriotism means to steal as much as you
can from the. best government on the earth, why, these
ancient holidays are far too pAmitive and virtuous to~
attract the progressive men who sit at the political helm.
Then, honest Farmer Trot donned his brag suit of blue
and white checks which he was proud to say had been
woven by B~tsey's own hands, and hitching the oxen to
the cart, took B6tsey and the children, all in their best
bib and tucker, to the barbecue, as the event of the season.
Pigs roasted whole, barbecued lambs, and cider were the
standard dishes and drinks, and among the penalties of
being a candidate were kissing the babies of constituents,
patting their pet dogs on the head, flattering the old
Women, and drinking cider with the yQung ones, with
now and then a promise from some proud mother to
name her next boy for hini. But, alas! those good old
times 'are gone-the free air of heaven is ignored along
with the rights of free (~) citizens, and instead of the old~
fashioned barbecue, we have modei'n mass-meetings held
in dusty, crowded cities, in halls that are carpeted,~ while
"Jersey Lightnin&amp;' takes the place of cider, and fri@.

ass Jes and m6ringues are ostentatiously' exchanged for
roast pig and barbecued lamb. Pet dogs and crying
babies are left at home, and the Farmer Trot. of toAay,
with his Betsey, the one in "tights," the other in o4igmon~
and pan~ier, having come to town by theA "keers," are
quite indignant to find themselves seated in the gallery /
along with the "poor white trash" and "niggers." In
those good old days, men voted for-principles, and they,
absolutely loved their country so much, that they would
as soon have thought of putting spurious coin in the Ooin~
union Alms, as of sending b~ men to legislate for
them. But all that is changed now-temperance and
patriotism are two old fogies that are set aside, and men
vote for those, who, by their superior knowledge of the
complex machinery of the Treasury Department, or other
behind the scene villany, can furnish the largest amount
of spoils and the smallest amount of principles.
Some persons consider this the most corrupt age of the
world; but we are not quite certain that we agree with
them, for there are still good men who proclaim Go~d's
eternal truths, and there are some believers among their
listeners. But leaving philosopher's, philanthropists, and.
ministers to fight the battles of the present, we ~Will re~
turn to the barbecue of thirty years ago, where the fatted
calf had been killed in honor of Clifford Troup, the
youthful aspirant for the position of representative from~
the stanch old county of' T
There were n~ great issues at stake in those days~ and
the country w~s movingg along as quietly as it ever can,
with such frequent elections, and ignorance as powerful
at the ballot-box as intelligence. But when the young
candidate arose, he was greeted with as much enthusiasm


126                   TRIuMPn.                                                       TRITTMPII.                127

a&amp; if he had been some conquering hero returning from
a victorious ~ampaign. This, perhaps, was to be attrib-
uted to a recognition of the past services of his father
and family, who had always been exceedingly popular in
the State, and who had ever borne themselves with satis.
faction and ability when entrusted with office.
Clifford was very y~ale, when he stood before the eager,
honest faces of the people whom he proposed to represent,
while the dark circles under his. eyes were suggestive of
suffering, and a strong will, was barely sufficient to con-
ceal a nervous tremulousness which was caused from
abstinence that morning~ This unusual abstemiousness
had been effected by the earnest solicitations of Judge
Baker, who knew full well that if the honest, temperate
countryy people saw any symptoms of intoxication in their
candidate, that he would surely be defeated. Clifford
was by nature an 'orator, combining a polish and strength
Which was rare in so young a speaker. What he said was
so ~vell and yet so simply said, that his words impressed
both the learned and untaught; and in consideration of
this fact, it is no matter of surprise that he held the
uninterrupted attention of his audience for nearly three
hours. To earnestness, he added a wit which 'relieved
the tedium of sober truths and facts, and a satire which
could breathe the most polished but most scathing denun.
ciatjons when necessity demanded; 'and when he took his
seat, the woods rang with cheers which prophesied an
overwhelming victory at the ensuing election.. Judge
Baker, who had represented the county for many years,
and who had declined, the nomination in favor of his
nephew, being then loudly called for, responded in a
&amp;hort but appropriate speech. He was then followed by

two or three lesser lights, after which they mingled with
the people and partook of the bounteous barbecue which
had been prepared for the occasion~
Clifford was very much exhausted, and the desire for
the accustomed drinks, burning like a consuming fire
within him, superseded every other thought. He was
restless, nervous, abstracted, miserable; and so will every
man be, who once lets the poisonous alcohol madden
his veins, by mingling its impurity with his life-blood.
Once taken, it creates an unquenchable thirst which cries
for more, more, more; and with such overwhelming
fury does this appetite increase, that the honors of the
world, love of family, pride; ambition, position, amid even
the hope of Eternity itself, will be given in exchange for
the one drink of which the victim has been deprived for
a few short hours.
And what is this desire after all? It is but a beastly
appetit~-a craving of the stomach which conquers the
intellect, and makes demons of its followers.
Clifford could not eat, and after drinking several cups
of strong coffee, and trying in vain to talk to his friends,
he proposed to his uncle that they should go. Appreciate
ing, as well as a sober man can, the struggle Clifford was
making, Judge Baker yielded~ to his request; for they'
had a long drive, and after many apologies for him,
whom he represented as not being well, they said good-
by, and took their departure, ami~1st the deafening ciThers
of those simpl&amp;.min4ed people, who believed t~he story
they had heard.
Not well! What little words tQ~ express the fearful
disease which racked the body and mind of Clifford
Troup.


128                 TRTUMPIr.                                                  TIUMPfl.       -       129

Not 'well! no; nor would he ever be again, without a
strong will aided by Divine assistance. Soon after they
had left the happy crowd, Judge Baker said:
"It has been a day of triumph for you, Clifford, kind I
congratulate you. upon your success."
"I am 'honored, if you think there is cause for congrat-
ulation in anything I have done," answered Clifford,
sadly.
"The triumph has not been so great over your con-
stituents as over yourself; and I hope that this is the
beginning of a reformation which shall be Permanent;"
and he looked from the corners of his eyes beneath the
hat of his listener, to see what effect his words would
have, but Clifford made 'no reply; for even then the
desire for a drinkwas so great, that it was difficult for
him to conceal his impatience.
What a state~of mind t~ be in! And yet those men
who are slaves to this vile habit will here f~iicl a true
picture of their inmost thoughts. They 'm~iy not ac-
knowledge it, but there is one Eye that sees and knows
the inner workings of this secret foe.
The rest of the drive was made in silence, and it was
full of apprehension for Judge Bakei', as to the 'future of
him who sat beside him; while Clifford's whole life, past,
present, and future, was merged into one idea, and that
idea was, the' quickest way to obtain a drink. how de-
grading! and did we not propose writing the truth, we
should hesitate before blottino~ these pages with such
hiunan depravity, or exposing such human weaknesses.
But the writer who would do good must not shrink from
telling the truth, no matter how painful it If~~ no matter
how much he would shield the creatures of his imagina~

tion' from the condemnation of the world. Arid who
knows but that God is using him as anginstrument of
good, and perchance the words which he writes may be
the means of arousing some heart to a sense of its neg-
lected duties, or reclaiming some recreant, who before
seemed joined to his idols.
Then, with this end in view, let no writer prove a mis-
creant to the sacred trust reposed in.him; do not let him
write for his own self-exaltptioii; do not let bun pndei
to the tastes of the public, by flattering vice at the sacri-
fice of virtue, but let him use all his influence to elevate
the standard of morality, and to glorify God. This shall
be our aim; and if we advocate the right, it will not be
because we love to disclose unpleasant truths, but for the
higher purpose of doing good, and of warning tIi~ inex-
perienced seafarer of the breakers ahead. herein the
authors task has never been fully appreciated; for who'
caii doubt but that it would be infinitely more agreeable
to delineate a perfect than an imperfect character? But
the question here arise~, "Does a perfect. character
exist?" If we reject the idea of original sin, and be-
lieve God a cruel, unjust Judge, who pei'secutes us
because lie loves to do it, then a faultless being may
and everlastin~ damnation may be the myth which
exist,           b
fashionable philosophers and the followers of idealisms
tell us that it is. But, accepting the revealed religion of
Christ, and philosophizing upon the weaknesses of human
nature, we shall endeavor to do good, by laying bare the
cause and effect of those evils which' are tolerated, if not
encouraged, by society. But we would not ha.ve our
readers suppose that we find a delight in the task to
which we seem driven; and could they see 'the tears which
6*

a

128 .

TRIUMPIT.


130                 TRIUMPH.                                                     TRIUMPH.                 131

are shed in secret oyer the human follies depicted in
these pages, they. would understand that we were fulfib
ling a cruel destiny, rather than yielding to an agreeable
pastime.
But while we have been wandering, the Judge 4and
Clifford have driven quietly along, entering the village
just as the purple shades of twilight were settling down
upon its deserted streets. Being very much fatigued,
the Judge sought the nearest route home; but Cljfford ar~
rested this movement so far as he was concerned, for as
they drove thrQugh the torn, he said:
"Let me out here: I must go by the office."
Fearing there was some hidden purpose behind these
words, the kind-hearted Judge said:
"You had better come home with me, Clifford."
"P11 be up soon," lie replied, without looking back;
and while the Judge drove sadly home, his nephew en-
tered j The Everglades," a den of iniquity, where the
keeper trifled with human souls, and only kept his ow~
record steady, for the greedy love of gain.
Calling for whiskey, Clifford seemed annoyed that the
man only half filled the glass, for his long abstinence had
made him desperate, and when lie held the goblet up and
said:
"Fill it," there was such determination in his voice
as made this devil's serving-man treml)le and obey.
The mere fact of having swallowed the long-cQveted
drink brought satisfaction, and even before the poison
had time to make itself felt in the effect desired, he ac-
cepted the invitation of a friend Q) to join him in a
game of cards. TI~~ game had not proceeded far, before
Clifford (~aIled fQr ~another drink, and the friend Q) who

drank nothing, ordered a bottle of brandy for the especial
benefit of the man whose purse lie was draining. Mat-
ters went on thus for some hours,~ and ClifFord kept los..
ing and drinking, until reason was dethroned, sleep o~er~
came him, and his friend (?) and the bar-keeper put him
to bed in a back room, which was specially reserved for
the weak and unfortunate. Here he slept until morning,
and then, like a guilty wretch, crept home to his anxious
and distracted wife.
And this was the ending of a day of Triumph!


~1~2

DESPAIR

I

DESPIR.

13

CHAPTER XIX.
DESPAIR!
*      OTJNG and envied, but in despair! How strange,
that in our selfishness we ,ignore the claims of
others, and do those things which shall not only
recoil upon our own heads, but which sh ~dl make victims
of those whom it should be our duty and pleasure to
shield from suffering. Let no man or woman suppose
that they can do ~vromg without giving pain to others
than themselves; for we all have families, to say nothing
of friends, who shall be made happy or wretched by opr
conduct.
Then, let us pause, if not for our own sakes, out of
consideration for those who have claims up~m us, before
committing acts which shall perhaps plunge the hearts
of those dear ones in mourning. If Clifford Jiad thought
for an instant that his conduct had any effect upon his
wife, the knowledge might have had some, influence, fQr,
naturally, no man had a higher regard for her sex than
he did. But, wrapped in the gloomy mantle of his own
sad. thoughts, he almost ignored her existence, never sus~
pecting that she might possibly be as wretched ~s him
self. And how gould he ever know it? She never coxn~
pIained~-she never remonstrated. No. For although
gentleness itself she had that strength within which can
endui~e in silence nutil the heart breaks. There are some

1k

few women like this, who, though physically weak, are
morally strong; but the world is none the wiser, for they
pine away in secret, and die without a murmur, some~
times even their husbands failing to observe thek tears
that ~vil1 come, the sighs ~that will not be suppressed,
the paling cheek, the unsteady gait, which to an anxious,
loving eye would be more expressive than words. We
repeat that husbands do not remark these prophetic but
silent signs. Why? Because they are too busy with
themselves-too busy with the world. They haven't
time to feed a starving soul, and less inclination to watch
the breaking of. a human heart. So the body is nour~
ished, so the material is cared for, what else is there for
husbands to do? Nothing, sar~ly, unless the eye of love
can see for itself.
How different with a wife! Should the husband's
brow be clouded, who so qiiiick to discover it as the wife?
Who so ready to soothe, to encourage, to sympathize with,
as she who has not even had a single word of love ~o help
her bear her little grievances? But then, the petty- details
of a woman's life are held in such contempt by men, that
they do not think them worth a consideration. Ed their
selfishness allow them to examine for themselves, they
would find that not all time great troubles of men com~
bined, are half so wearing as the thousand and one horrid
little duties which daily devolve upon women, Sapping the
fountains of their youth, and making them old while -yet
young in years. It's to look after servants, to give out
meals, to have the house kept in order, to take care of
the children, to cut out, to sew, and to do a thousand
other little things too various to enumerate. Of course, a
woman expects to do all thi when she takes upon herself

t

1~


134                    DESPAI1~.                                                                                    135

DESPAIR;.

the duties of wife and mother; but suppose her husband
should come home after she has had a day of unusual
worry, and say, " Come, wife, leave? all your caPes now,
and tAke a walk or a drive with me U' Do you not sup-
pose her heart would be lighter for the attention? And
then, if he should talk to her and tell her how he loved
her, just as he used to do in the, olden time before they
-were married, she would feel strengthened to meet any
fate that should be sent upon her. This is a very little
thing to do for one who has given her life, her love, her
all, into his keeping-it is less than nothing to do for the
mother~ of his children. Then, let husbands be more
considerate, more thoughtful, and we shall see fewer wives
prematurely old, with men in the Jrime of life; for all
duty and no recreation will wear away a stone. A wom-
an's whole life is a sacrifice, while a man's is 01)0 coin-
paratively of choice. Now, let there be less sacrifice and
more choice for the woman, and more sacrifice and less
choice for the man; and while the one will be happici',
the other will be nobler: for self-abnegation always in
creases our self-esteem. Let the husband keep up the
attentions to the wife which he gave to the sweetheart,
and no matter how rugged life's journey may be, she will
be prepared to defy its storms and to enjoy its cdins.
But with these little things neglected, life becomes a
painful disappointment, a cruel awakening from a beau-
tiful ideal; and the yearning in the heart for that syim.
pathy and tenderness which is denied it, can only be
appeased in the grave, if, mercifully~, it is not satisfied in
crime.
From the evening of the bridal party to the present
time, Virginia had heard, incidentally, of course (?), of

Clifford's devotion to Gertrude Lawrence. This knowledge
had been conveyed to her, not directly, but by hints and.
insinuations and innuendoes-those cruel thrusts which,
like stabs in the dark, rankle, but cannot be resented..
And just here, we would -like to ask, why people cannot
let well enough alone? Why is it that they abso~ utely
seem to hate to see the happiness of another? A first,
Virginia only laughed at what she considered a fancy of
th&amp; past; for she l6ved her husband devotedly, and did
not doubt but that he returned that love. Suddenly,
though, the trusting child developed into the jealous
woman; and could the gossips have seen the agonizing
traiisition,~We think even their slanderous tongues would
have been silenced and their malice appeased. True,
Clifford had never been very demonstrative towards her;
and while he was thoroughly polite, he rarely kissed her,
or bestowed upon her those delicate little attentions
which a refined and sensitive woman loves and appre~
cites. Simple child that she was, she had been happy
in the belief that it was all right, until a iperciless shaft
pierced her trusting, confiding heart; and now, her wom-
an's instinct told her that he did not love her. A fear-
ful discovery for either husband or wife to make, and a
death-knell to idl future happiness. She knew now why
he found no pleasure in her society, and why he absented
himself from her presence. It was because he loved
another, and in her tightened grasp she - held the proof,
which was cruelly convincing.
Being entirely free from the influence of anything but
his own reason, the morning of the barbecue, and feeling
more keenly than ever how deeply he had injured the wom-
an whom he called wife, Clifford was unusually kind and

135


186.

JoEs1AU,

attentive to her. Following him to the gate, the tcar~
sprang into her soft blue eyes, as he tenderly kissed her
"g~od-by," and she stood watching him until he was out
of sight.
Thankful for even so small a crumb, she returned to
the house in the happiest mood.
"Good-morning, Marm Judy," she said to her laundress,
who 'sat in her room awaiting her.
"Good-mornin', Miss 'Ginia! Yer see I'se come &amp;oon
fur de close, kase it looked so unlikely fur rain, and here's
some letters I'se bin had long time. Dey come out'mm
Mars Clifford's pockets, and I'se bin layiii' off to fetch
'em all dis time, but ever time I come, I forget~ 'em;"
and she handed the letters to the young wife. They were
soiled and crumpled, and thinking them of no imp~rtancc,
she opened one, and her eye was riveted ,by these words:
"My ow~ CLIFFORD -You ask me if I will always love you?
how can you ask me such a question? Does not your own heart
tell you? and wicked as it may be, I shall love you until I die.
But Virginia could read no more; for the tears which
sprang to her eyes blurred the words, and with a gasp,
she buried her face in the pillow upon the lounge where
she was sitting. She rested there but for a moment,
though; then remembering that a pail' of curious c~es
were upon her, she forced back her tears, and arising in
great confusion, said:
"The clothes are ready, Marm Judy, and f have no
doubt Mr. Troup will be much obliged to you for taking
care of the letters for him."
"Dey's all right, is dey?" asked the sable creature,

nsE5At.

137

who was dying to sit down and tell "Mi~ 'Ginia," as she
cahleti her, everything she knew, and more too.
"I presume so," said Virginia, with a powerful effoi't
to hide her feelings.
"I jes thought dey bought be from his ole sweet-
heart, Miss 'Trude Lawrinces-and dat was de ~son IL
took sich good care on 'em, honey; and den, you know,
Mars Clifford took to drinking' so hard jis afore he got
married, dat I don't s'pose he ever know'd he ever sent
'em out to wash."
"Did ho love her so much?" asked the poor little
wife timidly, for she was almost afraid to trust her voice,
lest she should burst into tears.
"Lor, chile, yes. Dey was onsep'rable-dey was jist
like one-dey was togeder day and night; and de very
last hour Mars Clifford ever spent in dis here town, afore
he went to git married, was spent wid Miss 'Trude."
Then stealing a glance at her listener, and seeing what
a painful expression almost distorted her face; she hur-
ried to add:
"'Twas a shame, chile, too, and everybody said so."
With a composure that was past understanding, and
hoping against hope, Virginia said:
"If lie loved her so much, why did he not marry
her?"

--          ~ ~ - ~.t~      ~~L1~4!

"She be too pore," answered tne iusi~zy
maker. Then, with a knowing shake of the head, she
added:
"Dress-maker's daughter nebber suit dem 'ristocratic
Troups."
The girl he loved was too poor, but I am rich, thought
Virginia; and with a won~an's quick perception, she now

I-


138                  DESPAIR.

saw the solution to what seemed a mystery a moment
before.
"But Mr. Troup is wealthy, or at least his father is,
and it was not necessary for him to marry for money;"
and again she tried to delude herself into the hope that
there might be some mistake somewhere.
~' tor', chile, you don't know nuffin, for folks sez dat
ole Mr. Troup done broke all to smashes, and dat he
married Mars ChifforA to you to save de Manner;" and
having done all the harm she could, she took the 'clothes,
and hobbling to the door on her stick, said:
"But I must be goin'-ole folks will be ole folks, chile,
you know, and dey always gabbles too much if dey ken
git anybody to listen to 'em; so good-mornin'.",
Then turning and seeing how distressed the poor child
was, she added:
"Don't take nuffin to heart I'se said, honey, kase it
may be all stories, for ~people will talk and dey don't
always tell de truf."
But the warning came too late; the fangs of the ser-
pent had deposited their poison; and no antidote could
counteract the effect now.
So, while the vile old mi8chief-maker hobbled off with
a grin of satisfaction upon her bronzed face, th~ stricken
wife sat pressing her hands upon her aching heart, and
gazing into vacancy as if she would turn to stone.
What~ a fearful awakening from a happy dream! For
it is a terrible thing for a wife to realize that her husband,
does not k~e her. He loved another, and had married
her for her money. had she heard aright? Was she
the same being of ai~i hour ago? Then she stood at the
gate a blushing, trembling ehild, kissing her husband

DESPAIR.           .      139
"good-by." Now she was a full-grQwn wretch-
edness had developed her. The agony of a lifetime was
compressed into one short hour; and a~ she sat thei'e so
still and rigid, the color faded out of her cheeks, the pain
became more intense in her heart, the dark circles be-
neath her tearless eyes deepened, and she seemed turmng
into marble. Despair was written in every feature of
her sweet, girlish face, and life was over for her before, it
had begun, for she was one of the few whom grief kills.
No tears came to her relief; nor could she seek consola-
tion from friendship, for not even to her own mother
would she cOnfide the fatal secret of that morning. For
why kill her mQther? ~o; she woul&amp; die for him she
loved, for she was in his way. He wanted her money.
Well, he might have it, both while she was here and
after she was gone. These were the thoughts that Vir-
ginia indulged during the long tearless hours of anguish
that she sat brooding over the gossip of the old ci~one,
who had sent a death-stab to her heart with her cm~el
words.
And this is not an isolated case, for Sout iern women
talk too much to servants; and many homes have been
made wretched by the tattle of negro confidants, where
no real cause existed foil unhappiness. In the ignorance
and moral degradation, and in the ~attering manner with
which, their slanders are received, during the interval
that the dignity of mistress is laid aside for that of coin-
pai~ion, may be found an excuse for the conduct of these
poor, unenlio'htencd creatures. But what apology can be
offered for those men and women, who, being made in
God's image, go about retailing scandal as the pastime of
intellectual and accountable beings? We fear there is a


140                  DESAIZ
terrible retribution in store for them; and it would at least
be well for them to ~anse in their misspent career, and
consider: What benefit can come from this discourse?
Does it elevate? Is it charitable? Is not gossiping the
twin sister of lying? Does it leave the conscience at
ease? iDoes it not degrade whoever indulges in it?
But while we have been asking these questions, for
winch we ask .a sober reflection, th~ husband has made a
triumphant speech, the wife has been changed from a
loving, hopeful woman into a Niobe, and now dinner is
announced to both. Neither eat, but from what different
causes! In truth Virginia did not hear the servant who
told her dinner was ready, neither did she notice her
when she brought tl~e meal to her room. And thus she
sat in silent, tearless agony, while the hours went by and
the sun went down, and until the silver beams of a new
moon fell across her folded hands and reminded her that
her husband might soon be home. Not wishing him to
see any traces of suffering, she arose, and putting the
cruel letters away, made a fresh toilette with unusual
care, and went down on the gallery to await his corn iug.
But during those long hours of crucifixion her plans for
the future were made, and sti'aight tb the bitter end the
innocent and injured wife would walk with the unIlinch~
ing spirit of a martyr who felt proud to die in the cause
espoused. Thus, instead of dwelling upon her own griefs
and disappointinent~insteacl of cherishing hatred for her
rival, ahd resentment for her husband, she only reinem-
bored how cruel was the destiny that had forced him to
marry for money instead of love; and there was nothing
but pity an&amp; sympathy in her heart for the two unhappy
creatures whom man's inhumanity had forever separated.

3)E5PAIR.                141
Then, resolving to men ion to no human being the fatal
news which had blasted h~' happiness forever, she deter~
mined to be gentle and tender to her husband, and, in
addition, to do all for him that money could do. Instead
of chiding, she would, try and save him, for it was pow
evident to her that he was fast becoming a slave to hi~
cups, and without a speedy reform could be effected, it
w~uld be too late. Naturally delicate, she felt that the
shock of the morning would soon wear her silently away,
and loving her husband more than herself, she cared not
how soon the end might come; for then, with her fortune,
he might wed the woman of his heart, and two souls would
then beAiappy, where three were now so wretched. This
is not unnatural, but only uncommon; for some few
women have lived who were capable of just such self-
abnc~atiOn, and who possessed the martyr-like spirit here
embodied in the character of poor Virginia. With these
thoughts in her mind, she went below stairs and. met
Judge Baker as he entered the front door.
"Where is Clifford?" was her eager answer to his
"I left him down town. He will be rip soon-or at
least he said he would," was the doubtful reply; and the
laces of both speaker and listener betrayed the anxiety
which they felt. Then, with too much wifely pride to
betray her real feelings, even in that presence, she com-
manded herself and said:
"how passed the day?"
"Triumphantly for Clifford, and if we can only keep him
straight for the next two months, his election is certain."
"What do you mean?" asked Virginia, with the quick
resentment of a wife.


142

143

]XESPA-U~.

DESPAIR.

"AMy poor child, do not be offended , for I love Cijiford
as if he were my own son; but lately he drinks too much,
and I beg you, if you. have any influence over him, to
urge him to stop, for if he continues to drink as lie has
been doing for several months, it will ruin him forever."
"ff1 have any influence?" said the poor wife. There
it was again! A fresh stab! Well, she couldn't expect
anything else, and gliding out of the house, she walked
down to the front gate, and leaning sadly upon it, watched
for the coming of her husband. Scarce twelve hours be-
fore had seen her stam~ding in the same spot, a happy
wife; now she was a betrayed woman, an outcast, a
wanderer through the dark valley of Despair, with no
hope to cheer, nq beacon-light to guide.
The twilight deepened, the sky became ihky black;
but still she kept her silent vigil and peered into the un-
fathomable darkness for the form which came not. It
lightened, it thundered, and from the masses of black
clouds a storm burst upon her uncovered head; but nothing
daunted, she held her post, and still-he came not. Then,
through the terror of the darkness, a strong arm was folded
lovingly around her, and her uncle s~aid in a kindly tone:
"Come in, Virginia. Your watching will not bring
him;" and without any resistance lie led her to the house
and into her own room, where she sank down, with her
drenched clothing clinging around her. Conscious of
nothing but a dull, heavy pain in her heart, she did not
know that the night was gone, until the first faint glim-
iner of day-dawn was followed by the entrance of a pale
and haggard man. There were no exclamations, no tears,
nothing unusual; but extending her hand, she said in her
softest and sweetest voice:

"I am so glad you have come, Clifford! See, I have
waited for you all night."
The kind words touched his sensitive heart, and press..
ing her hand, he sank upon the floor by her side, and bury.
ing his head in her lap, said:
"Forgive me 1"


F
t
'I
I
I
I
I
[

A MOTHER'S HEART.

CHAPTER XX.
A MOTHERS 5 HEART.
HE dower~xvhichi Virginia Dearing had brought
to her husband, and which her father generously
gave into the sole keeping of his son-in-law, was
munificent beyond expectation. Secretly transferred to
the proprietor of the "Manor," it saved that ancient es-
tate, besides liquidating some other pressing debts; there-
by causing the Hon. Mr. Troup to look the world
haughtily, if not squarely, in the face once more, and
again to bid defiance to that fate in which he believed
more implicitly than in his God. Thus, instead of feel-
ing thankful for the timely aid which saved his home and
extricated him from dishonor, in stead of beginning a life
of reform, he triumphed in what he was pleased to call
his '~ Wonderful management," and again renewed the
old system of extravagance and effeminate luxury, with-
out giving a thought as to when or how these new debts
would be met. His expenditures were reckless beyond
description, and served to verify one of Thackeray's many
truisms, when he says: "people never live half so well,
as when they are comfortably in debt." So flattering him-
self that he was a man of destiny, and confident that fate
would take care of her favored child, he cared nothing
for the future, so the present gratified his boundless de-
sires. lie forgot that his own flesh, had been tortured,
Lis own blood spilled to satisfy the tyrannical demands of
his pride, for in his thoughts there was room for nothing

144

A MOTHER~5 HEART.             145
else but Self. Or if he remembered his son at all, it was
with a sneer for his weakness, and a hope that he would
soon be 'cured of his boyish folly. Thus, can love of
money and self-indulgence not only dwarf and distort
man's better' nature, but it can obliterate and deaden
even the ties qf consanguinity.
how different with the mother!!! No amount of
money can stifle her affections; and instead of gratifying
those inordinate desires which ar.e born of selfishness, she
is always thinking, "What can I do without?" And
whatever it is, the value of that self-denial willie cheer-
fully given to those loved ones whom she has borne
and nurtured. The thought, "What can my children do
for me?" rarely suggests itself to the mother, but it's al-
ways," What can I do for my children?" and in thinking
of her boy,. Mrs. Troup felt that she would gladly give
home, friends, position, everything to make him happy.
Before his marriage, he used to write herregularly once
a week, and his letters were so full of hope that the read-
ing was like taking a fresh lease on life. Afterwards.
though, at long intervals, caine some short, cold, and un-
satisfactory notes; and at length these were succeeded by
a silence which was cruel in the child and hard for the
mother to bear.
From gossiping tongues the news of Clifford's excesses
reached the family servants, and through them the re-
ports became knowi~ to the agonized mother. He was
the subject of her thoughts and prayers by ~ay and night,
and her heart went out to him in one great throb of sym-
pathy, for she knew only too well what was driving him
to such recklessness. But, alas! what could she do?
She was powerless-she could do nothing except to give
7


ii
ii
II
ii'
r? II
U
ft
II
I
I

A M0THER~5 HEART.

him her love and her prayers, and these she gave without
reserve. His conduct wounded her pride; but, mother~
like,, the lower he sank in the esteem of the world, the
more lie was deserted by friends, the more closely her
heart-tendrils entwined around him, for a iiiother never
forsakes. Then, while a mother's heart is so unchanging,
it seems cruel that children should forget her claims, and
return her unwavering devotion with neglect and in if-
ference. In this respect Clifford was not unlike many
others; and although in his heart he adored his mother,
in his conduct he shamefully disregarded her claims upon
him, thus filling her each day with new anxiety, and giv-
ing fresh pain where it would have been merciful to pre-
vent it. This is not right; and if we could only remem-
ber how our mother cared for us during infancy; how
tenderly she watched us during the silent hours of the
night, when every other eye was closed in sleep; how she
laughed in our joy, and mourned in our grief; how from,
childhooA to manhood her devotion never faltered; how
from the cradle to the grave she is the one friend who is
true as Heaven-we would pause before giving her one
moment's pain. From that evening, when Clifford knelt
in. the twilight at his mother's feet, and said in despaii~:
"Mother, pray for me," there had been a dull, leaden
weight about her heart, which nothing had the power to
lift. She had grown thinner, her cheeks were paler, and
her hair had suddenly become gray. But with mother,
~s with son, it was not so much a regret that he was mar-
ried to the lovely Virginia as it was a regret for the mo-
tive; and to this womanly woman, as to her manly son,
came the ever-recurring thought of a deep injury done an
innocent girl.

A M0THER~5 HEART.           147

But while the mother's heart ached sadly for her boy,
the father, wrapped in his own selfishness, was rearing
new gods to worship, and devising endless means of en-
joying this life to its fullest extent.
And yet there was nothing mean or little in this man's
nature. He didn't even know he was selfish. Do any of
us ever know this, or acknowledge it? Xo ~ he was the
victim of. weakness and frailty, which made him substi-
tute pride for paternal love, and expediency for duty, un-
til he had now but two ideas-the one was to keep the
name of Troup up to its proud old standard, the other
was to save the "Manor," let it cost what it would.,

1463


~;; \

WIlY NOT?                149

CHAPTER XXI.
wHY NOT?
T had been unusually quiet at "Pleasant Retreat"
fQr the last few weeks-indeed, ever since that
afternoon when Gertrude said to Paul: "You
must not love me!"
Mr. Hall was immersed in politics, Congressional re-
ports, and a heavy correspondence-Paul had taken his
books home to study, only making his appearance with
the mail in the mornings, which it was a fancy of his to
bring, and withdrawing' as soon as Mr. Hall had ques-
tioned him ~upon his studies; while Gertrude was trying
hard to forget by assisting about the household duties,
and by devoting a portion of her time to the reading and
exercise which her uncle's wisdom had suggested.
Mr. Hall missed the gay society of his young student,
and still entertained a faint hope that he might yet be his
nephew one day; but miot believing, as some others fool-
ishly do, that women can be reasoned into loving whom-
soever their grand-pareimts, parents, uncles, aunts, or other
relatives think it wise and prudent for them to marry,
he discreetly said nothing. I
my not having married, may I ask if you expect to live
"And pray, Gertrude~ since you are so concerned about
single all the days of your life?" for they were Qn the
subject of matrimoi~y again, and Gertrude, as usual, was
teasing her uncle about being an old bachelor.

"Why not?" she said archly, and smiling in the ear..
iiest, pale face of him whose deep black eyes regarded
her seriously.
"There are some good reasons 'why not,'" he answered
gravely; "and now, laying all sentimentality and foolish-
ness aside, since we are on this subject, let us have a sensi-
ble, practical talk."
"Agreed, uncle," said the bewitching girl, who had com-
pletely captivated the old man's heart; and sitting orr a
stool at his feet, she added, with a pretty pout of the lips:
"only I hate to listen to sermons on week-days, they seem
so out of place."
"You naughty girl," he said, smiling.
"But come, what are the reasons?" she asked, at the
same time looking down to hide the mischievous smile
which she felt was at least disrespectful to one whom
she well knew had only her good and happiness at
heart..
"First of all, then, your mother is your only protector,
and according to the laws of nature it is reasonable to
suppose you will survive her. If you do outlive her
"Oh, uncle," she said, in a tone of distress,, then
bowed her head upon his knee. Stroking her hair, lie re-
peated, slowly and solemnly:
"If you outlive her, to whom will you look for love
and protection?"
"To you, uncle," she answered, while her beautiful face
was contracted with pain.
"To me, certainly, if I am living; but, m dear child, I
am a slender thread to cling to, for, as you kpow, I am
only a wreck, and the probabilities are that~ you will long
outlive me."

148                 WHY NOT?


150                 wn~ NOT?                                                     WILY NOT?                 151

"Oh, uncle, do you want to kill me?" she now asked,
while* her eyes were swimming in tears.
"No, my child, no. On the contrary, I want to pre-
pare you to live the life that is before you. I want to
make you understand that when one resource fails there
are others to take its place. I want to teach you to bat-
tle with fate, instead of yielding to it. Do you know
what I would like you to do?"
"What?" was the eager response.
"Marry some sober, honest, energetic, and intelligent
young man, who would take 'good care of you."
The suggestion was received without comment, and they
lapsed into silence. After some little time, the uncle
said:
"What do you think of it, Gertrude?"
With a sigh, and looking down, she said: "I cannot
doubt your motives, uncle, but you surely would not have
me marry just for the sake of marrying."
"You would not have me marry a man unless I loved
him?"
Evading her question, and perhaps as much for the sake
of argument as for the purposing of discovering her real
feelings, he said:
"Did it never strike you that this feeling called Love,
is a thing of the will?"
"Never!"
"Nor that it is an ideal thing?"
"It surely is, not tangible, but it is powerful!" was
the earnest reply.
- - "Well now, my child, let us reason a little on the sub-
ject. In your calmer moments, when passion and j udg.

ment are equally balanced, you will acknowledge that no
man possesses the god-like attributes with which a
Woman's love endows him. Do you admit this?"
"I suppose I must," was the reluctant answer.
"Well, then, upon a close analysis of the emotions, per-
sons in love will find that 'they are worshipping an ideal
that exists only in the imagination, instead of a living,
breathing reality. See, if you admit the first proposition
you must admit the second. Then, why not say to your
will, 'Ii will love this or that man;' bring your imagina-
tion into play, and the thing is done."
"Oh, uncle," said Gertrude impatiently. "You reason
upon a subject of which you know nothing! You have
never been in love! If you had, you would know how
powerless one is when under the influence of what you
call an ideal emotion. You would know too what bliss
and what despair it can bring, and how it persecutes the
victim it holds within its grasp;" and as a flood of emo-
tipus swept over the chords of her soul, she bowed her
head upon his knee and wept.
"Oh, my child, my child! Is this the way you for-
get?" and hopeless as the task seemed of making her
bury her idol, Mr. Hall did not despair, for he believed a
strong will could conquer any feeling, and more espec-
ially if one can be made to realize that honor demands
the sacrifice. This he hoped to impress upqn Gertrude,
and indeed he had already done so; but ~t times the old
love came back with such force, as to submerge all new
resolutions, and send both her will and honor drifting out
to sea, without chart or compass to guide.
Raising l~er head after awhile, and looking right into
her tear-staihed eyes, Mr. Hall said:

A

p


152                 WHY NOT?                                                                             153

A ThIIE WIFE.

"My child, I have only been talking, just for the sake
of argument,.,~and for the purpose of getting at ybur real
feelings, for there's no man living WhQ appreciates more
thoroughly than I do, that love must spring from congen~
iahty of tastes and temperament, and that it is ndt a thing
of the will. And again, when you say that I 'reason
upon a subject of which I know nothing, and that I have
never been in love,' let me assure you that you talk upon
a subject of which you know nothing, for no man has
ever loved more devotedly, yet more hopelessly, than I
have. Let this knowledge be a consolation to you;" and
with a deep sigh he drew her to his knee, and, folded her
in his arms.
So, the man whom the world thought without feeling,
shad been in love; the man whom the world thought utterly
indifferent to women; bound his wound in secret, and,,
Portia-like, endured in silence.
"This is not to be spoken of, though," he said, as she
hid her head upon his shoulder and wept; "and II onl
told it to you to show you that you are not the only y
one
who has loved and lost. Come, now, don'i cry any more;
for it pains me to see tears in. your eyed;" and arising, he
kissed her brow and entered 'his "Study," while she stole
quietly to her room, to wrestle with her memory, her
heart, and her will.

CHAPTER XXII.
A TRUE WIFE.
OT a murmt~r, not a complaint, no reproaches,
nothing but kind words~ ever came from the lips
of "Virginia for her husband; for she was con~
evinced that if kindness failed to reform him, harshness
would be still more unavailing. And now that she knew
the secrets of his heart, a tender sympathy was added to
her love, and she appreciated that he needed encourage~
ment rather than censure. That she did not upbraid him
may seem strange to some, and her charity may possibly
call forth sneers from others; for the greatest of all the
virtues, according to St. Paul's idea, is regarded by men
as cowardice and want of spirit.
Virginia was ind endent, though,~ of either the ap-
proval or disapproval of the world; for having sufficient
moral courage ~to do right for right's sake, and being sus~
tamed by that help from on high for which she daily
prayed, it was not tiossible for any human power to swerve
her from her purpose.
She was a wife, and remembering this, she determined
to do her dnty, no matter if her husband failed to do his.
She married him in good faith and because she loved
him, and the fact that he married h~r from mercenary
motives did n6t lessen or relieve any,' of her obligations.
She did not care for the moneybnt the fact that he loved
another pierced her heart like a poisoned dart; and yet
7*

153


(

154.

A TRUE WIFE.

she was brave enough and. strong enough to lock this Un-.
fortunate secret in her own bosom, and to walk boldly
forward. in the discharge of her wifely duties. The
story had been divulged to her in an underhand way,
but her resolution to keep her husband from suspecting
that she knew it, was firm, although her heart should
break in the attempt. This was a brave determination,
and perhaps martyrs have gone to the stake with less*
heroism than the fuhilment of this pledge required. She
was unselfish, and in the possession of this transcendent
virtue was to be found the motive which prompted her
not to allude, either by word or act, to the unhappiness
which her husband coulcbiio longer conceal from her
watchful eyes. Such self-~acrifice will not be appreciated
'by many, for it is a natu~'al delusion of man to think
every one happy but himself, and when the shadows
come, to fancy all others luxuriating~ in the sunshine.
With the insight of a woman and a wife, Virginia felt
that she was not necessary to her husband's happiness
long before the fatal secret was revealed to her and had
the cause been anything less than love for another, per-
haps she would not have had so much charity for the
man whom she idolized. Fully appreciating* that that
was a feeling which cannot and will not be controlled, her
heart was f till of sympathy for him who was the victim
of a combination of circumstances which were beyond his
control.
For a little while succeeding the morning when he
Lknelt at her feet and wept some contrite tears, Virginia
had strong hopes of a permanent reformation in her htis-
band; but the demon which rankled in his bosom again

155

A TRUE WIFE.

drove him to excesses, with its harrowing memories and
torturing accusations. Thus will men ever find excuses
for dissipation, and although acknowledging its ruinous
effects, will not struggle to be released from its fiendish
bondage. Clifford was punctiliouS to a fault in all out-
ward attentions to his gentle, uncomplaining little wife
but, as we have before remarked, in those nameless acts
-those delightful nothings which love alone suggests,
he was a stranger. And because Virginia did not seem
to feel slighted, he thought she was satisfied. Many hus-
bands think the same, when, if they could look into the
hearts of their wives, they would see how yearningly they
were throbbing for love-words and acts of tenderness.
Clifford was not insensible to his wife's kindness and
thoughtfulness, and sometimes, when it grated upon him,#
he would say:
"I am not worthy of so much kindness, Virginia;"
and then, when she would answer: "Yes, Clifford, yo~.
are, for I love you," he would shrink away from her and
say to himself:
"Oh, God! if she didn't love me, this, life of deceit
wouldn't be so hard to bear."
Then, after a few words like these, they would relapse'
into the silence which inevitably fell upon them as soon
as they were alone. Feeling it a duty to be at home
sometimes, Clifford, would occasionally remain in the
evening and attempt to while away the time by reading
to his wife. Soon growing weary of this, and restive
under the loving glances of her soft blue eyes, he would
fly from the house in sheer desperation, and joining some
gay companions, would go to "The Evergla~es,~' or some

A


*
156                A TRUE WIFE.                                                 GOING AWAY
other saloon, for a game of cards or billiards, which it was
quietly understood would be interspersed with drinks.
Thus night after night, and day after day passed away,
and Virginia~'kept her lonely vigil as sacredly as she kept                 CHAPTER XXIII.
her secret, for 8he was in every respect a true wife.
GOING AWAY!
HAT did you say, Paul ?" said Mr. I
up from his paper at his young
by the table with a troubled e~pressi
manly face.
"I said I was going away, sir," repeated F
looking up.
"Going away I What for?" asked the stat
a frown of disapproval.
"Because I am not satisfied here, sir, an
can do better elsewhere."
"Where are you going?" then asked IN~
coldly as {f he felt no interest whatever in th~
"Out West somewhere, sir. I have not
what place."
"Out West!" said the statesman, with a
pression. "To the modern Utopia, which lur
men from their homes, in search of fame a
which they never realize. But you will x~
after you are admitted to the bar?"
"Not until after my examination, if you
suggested Paul, with his usual timidity.
"Ah! the admission is a foregone conelusi
"You. are very kind to Bay so, sir."
"It's only a week or two off is it not?"
"That's all, sir.~~

Jail, looking
~nd, who sat
on upon his
ad, without
;esman; with
lithinkl
rr. mIl, as
~ matter.
yet decided
dubious ex~
3S our young:
ud fortunes
iot go until
please, sir,
)UY


158.            GOING, AWAY.

GOING AWAY..              159k

"And you go immediately?"
"At once.'~
"Is your mother willing?"
"I have only intimated it to her, sir."
"And what did she say?"
"She opposed it."
"And you still persist in going?"
"That is my present intention, sir."
"You will allow me~ then, I hope, as one of your
father's best friends as well as your own, to enter my
protest against the movement, and to remind you of some
duties of which you ~o not seem to think."
"Certainly, sir 1"
"In the first place, then, I think you owe it to your
widowed mother, as her oldest son, to stay with and pro-.
tect her; and in the second place, you -~owe it to your
Dative State to remain within her borders, to work for hor
good, rather than to go in search of strange lands to serve.
and new gods to~f6llow after. What do you say now?"
"I think ~your views are correct, sir, and under more
auspicious circumstances they would be mine. But I am
not happy here, and I fancy, when surrounded by new
scenes, I may be more contented."
"Not happy? What have you been doing? for as
Victor Hugo rightly says, 'our acts make or mar ~
"I fear this is an exceptional case, sir, for really I have
been doing nothing very bad."
"No man ever did, by his own consent. But tell me,
what makes you unhappy, and why this sudden 'decision?
Come, you have no secrets from me, or at least should
not have."
"That is true, sir, and I do not wish to have."

"Own. up like a man then, and tell me what is the
trouble."
"Sirtce yo~i flatter me by asking my confidence, sir I
will tell you that II love your niece, and that her rejection
of me has made. this place intolerable."
"And is it for a girl that you are going to abandon,~
State, home, friends, and family?"
"Doubtless you consider me very weak, sir, and I may
be, but this affair has made me so unhappy that I can
neither study nor be at rest here any more."
Seeing that his young friend was in earnest, and with
the hope of driving him from his purpose, Mr~ Hall's
usual sagacity suggested at once what course was best to
pursue, as he said:
"How often have you courted the young lady?"
"Once, sir.
"Once? only once? Why, you don't deserve to suc-
ceed! Court her forty times, and if need be, an hundred
and ~forty tim~s; always bearing in mind the motto:
'Faint heart ne'er won fair lady.' Was the world made
in a day? ~Suppose you had read only one page of
l3lackstone, would you now be ready to be admitted to
the bar? Abandon your Western trip, lay siege to this
young lady's heart, and by your hope of success, never
lay down your arms, until you have carried the citadel!
Once t. Why, that child's play!. Doii't you know that
wol nen love to be coaxed and begged and petted?'
~ Excuse me, sir,-I should have sought your advice
before, but I. did not dream you were so well posted in
regard to a class whom you so entirely ignore."
"But Ii haven't gone through life with my eyes closed,
as you see; and ! assure yoi1 I have been the confidant of


1~G               GOING AWAY.                                                                      161
GOING AWAY.

so many men, both single~and married, that I might as
well have had all sorts of love-scrapes and been mar-.
ned myself. And besides, who says that 1 ignore the
fair sex? It is not true, for although I have never
married, they have no warmer admirer than myself, and
the older I grow, the more convinced I am that all men
should marry. It is a duty they owe their country, not
less than themselves, for there comes a time when the
State no longer needs them, and then only can they find
comfort and happiness in the retirement of hom6~ An-
other reason is, that marriage is right according to our
religion, and should be the normal condition of man.
As a 'promoter of virtue the institution should be en-
couraged, and my advice to all young men is to get
married."
"But suppose you can't?" asked Paul, Whose face had
brightened, and Whose heart had taken fresh hope at the
Words of his revered mentor.
"Oh, but you can! Now, let me tell you something'?
You have taken your books hom\e-.-bning them back and
study here as you did before. Call upon Gertrude, send
her flowers, books, music, papers, fruit, anything. Be
cheerful, and let her see that you do not intend to die,
even if she did discard. you, and my Word for it, you will
notice a difference in less than a week. Walk With her,
ride with l~er, tell her* you are going away, but don't
mention lov~e to her; and the first thing you know, you.
will become necessary to her: this you Will find out, and
when the proper time comes, you will make the assault."
"Agreed I" said Paul, arising and grasping the hand of
his friend.
"Go now and 2get your books, for I've wasted as much

time upon you and your sweetheart as I can to-day."
And taking up his paper he resumed the reading of it,
while Paul xV~ent whistling across the lawn, with eyes for
no one, ears for nothing, when suddenly a familiar voice
said:
"You are in a happy mood this morning."
"Why, Miss Gertrude! Where in the world did you.
come from? Did you drop down from the skies?" and
he shook hands with his beautiful vis-d-vis.
"No, I came from a walk in the woods. But what
makes you so joyous?"
"A conversation with your uncle, for really I should
feel anything but joyous."
"Why?"
"Because I am going away soon, perhaps never to re-
turn ;" and he watched her closely to see what effect this
little ruse would have.
With surprise in her face, and nothing more, she said:
"I'm sorry i~ hear it, for my uncle will miss you."
Simple words, and spoken without any intention to
wound, but they fell upon Paul's heart like a well-direct-
ed blow aimed by a premeditated hand.
"I shall feel flattered if he doe~," was the cool reply,
and with a "good-morning," he passed on. But his face,
that was a moment before so beaming, was now clouded;
there was an absolute pain in. his heart, as he despaired of
ever winning her he loved, and for days her words
sounded like a dirge in his ears.

100


A~2                WEARING.                                             WEARING.               163

CHAPTER XXIV.
WEARING!
HE buoyancy and hope of a few months ago 310
,longer stimulated Clifford to action; his ambi-
tion was dead, his duties were attended to after
a fashion, and thus another noble life was being added to
the victims of the cup. The life waA telling upon him,
for the bright blue eyes of other days were heavy and
bloodshot, his cheeks flushed and bloated, his manner
impatient and restless, his words hasty, and latterly inter-
spersed with profanity-something which in former days
had been a stranger to his lips. This is not surprising,
for it is the work of the poison which lie daily imbibed
to degrade, and as he sank lower and deeper and more
surely, so will every mau go downward who gratifies this
low appetite at the sacrifice of reason and of self-respect.
&amp; the wretched days went by, and thinking only of him-
self, he failed to discover that some secret cause was
preying upon the health of his wife, and,, wearing her
young life away. He did not notice that her step was
languid, or that she was pale and thin, or that even as-
cending the steps quite took away her breath. Oh, no!
these are such, little things, and then-she never coin-
plained. Had she have, told her husband that she was
ill or suffering, no man would have been more ready
with words of sympathy, no man would have sought
medical skill more quickly. But it is this very blindness,

this cruel neglect, that makes wives endure in silence, and
that, ~at last, places them beyond the need of watchful
eyes or loving words. No matter how they keep up, no
matter how cheerful they seem or how uncomplaining
they arc, the disease is in the heart, it is wearing away the
life-blood drop by drop, and nothing but love and kind-
ness can stanch, the crimson streaih. Oh, husbands I is
she whom you call by the sacred name of wife sick-is
the mother of your children lonely-do you absent your-
self day and night from home? Does a sickly pallor now
take the place of roses in her cheeks-is her merry laugh
changed into a sigh-is her light step blow and weary?
If so, recall, the day when you bore her from her father's
house a blushing bride; think of those times when you
told her how dear she was to you; go to her, comfort and
cheer her, be to her what you voluntarily promised to
be in those love-days that are gone; and in the evening
of life, remorse will not be added to the long list of
neglected duties which shall blast your peace of mind
with their painful ~recollections. No matter from what
motives men marry, there is no law, real or imagined,
that exempts them from the performance of certain
duties which the marriage relation imposes; and try as lie
did, Clifford w~s not sophist enough to reason himself
into this way of thinking, or to reconcile himself into
believing that his continual neglect of his wife was right.
Then he attempted to quiet his conscience by fancying
his conduct must be above reproach, as she 'found no
fault, and even tried to make himself believe that she
neither cared for nor desired any demonstrations of love
on his part.
however, the feeling that he had injured her was fast

*


v        164                  WEARING.                                                   WEARII~1G.

wearing away, for under the corrupting influence of
liquor 'his better impulses were yielding to the bad, and
the latter readily excused any omission and sanctioned
any neglect. So, day by day, two lives were being
wasted, two hearts were wearing away, but to each other
the causes would be "nameless evermore."
Clifford now had an additional grievance, and it arose
'from the fact that his father was making fresh demands
upon him for more money. The thousands that had been
furnished him had gone, no one knew whither, and the
fact that~, his father was again upon the verge of bank-
ruptcy, and that he again called upon him to save him,
drove Clifford almost to suicide. What to do he knew
not, for rather than go to his wife or her father for
money, he would die.
One evening, while this new trouble was heavy upon
him, instead of going down town as usual he went up to
their room with his wife. Folding his hands behind him,
he walked slowly back and forth the room, with his ?yes
bent upon the floor. Virginia took up a book, but it was
not to read, for her heart Was full of forebodings, and
her watchful eyes followed her husband in the hope of
divining his secret grief
At length, seating himself at the table, he took up a
book also, when his wife, iiio longer able to endure the
silence, leaned upon his knee, and said, with tender
anxiety:
"Clifford, what is the matter with you ~"
"Nothing," he said, indifferently, without raising his
eyes fron~ the page.
Natui'ally timid and shrinking, she was now ~mbold.

ened by the hope of alleviating her husband's troubles,
and said, again:
"It grieves me, Clifford, to think that you do not confide
in me, that you never talk to me; and it; is killing me to
see that I am just nothing to you;" and here the over-
charged heart poured forth its long and silent struggles
in tears. The words came from her without any will Qf
her own; they were wrung from her by suffering. She
regretted them, for she had intended going down to the
grave without giving him a hint of how deeply she felt
his neglect.
"Virginia!" came in surprise from Clifford's lips, and
folding her in his arms for the first time in many months,
a fresh reproach added its harrowing sting to many
others; for~ until that moment he believed his wife to be
as indifferent to his attentions as she seemed.
So little do husbands know of their wives!
While she lay weeping in his arms, he said:
"Forgive me, Virginia; but really I have nothing to
tell."
Nothing to tell! nothing to say to her who should
share his every thought! What a reflection upon the
sacred relation they bore each other: aud yet how often
doss it happen!
Let husbands look to their firesiaes; let them remem~
her that they have the world for society, ~ut their wh~es
have only them. Let the attentions of the honeymoon
be extended into the years that are to come; for as the
cares of life multiply, as the delicate constitution yield~i
to the shock of mimotherhood, as the roses fado from her~
cheeks, she will need your love, your tenderness, move
tha~i ever she did in the gladsomne days of happy youth.


166                   WE&amp;1~ING.

167

WEARLEG.

Then ~he had admirers by the score; then she had fathers
mother, sisters, brothers, home; now she has but you.
Don't forget it; but when your eye falls upon this
page, if there are duties left undone, if your heart smites
you, don't let your pride keep you from doing a simple
act of justice; but go to your wife, show her these lines;
there's no need to say a wo~'d; but press her to your
heart, kiss her-she will understand-then go your way,
and try and be a better and more attentive husband.
4nd if you should not love her-God forgive you if
you have injured her to this extent-be * more mindful
than ever, and try to let your acts of tenderness supply
the deficiency in your heart.
For some time the sobs of the young wife alone broke
the silence, and they cut deeper and deeper into Clif-
ford's heart each moment ; for in his soul he abhorred
himself for what he had done. Wretch enough to die,
and not knowing what to say, he sat holding his stricken
wife in silent agony.
Then, when the first storm of grief had subsided, she
raised her head, and said, with such composure as she was
able to command:
"Pardon me, Clifford, but I saw something troubled you,
and I thought I could help you; I hoped, at least, you
would not refuse my sympathy."
Although gently spoken~ her tone w~s slightly re-
proachful, and Clifford hurried to say:
"My poor child, I do not refuse your sympathy, but it
is only a money matter that troubles me, and I did not
care to worry you with it."
"Whatever worries a husband should worry a wife,

and whatever gives pleasure to him should give pleasure
to her." are an angel;" and seizing her hand,
"Virginia, you
Clifford kissed it, in his usual hot-headed, impulsive style..
But his heart smote him afresh; for with all her trans-
cern-lent virtues and beauties of character, he did not love
her; although she was his wife, his heart would not be
forced into loving her, and he added earnestly and truth-
fully:
"I am not worthy of you 1"
Then letting her little thin, white hand drop, he rested
his head upon the table and sighed a deep sigh.
Without noticing his last words, Virginia said:
"What about the money, Clifford ?"
"I want a certain amount for a special purpose, but
I fear it will be impossible to raise it," he answered, with-
out looking up.
"What is the amount?"
lie named it, and then taking his hat walked out into
the summer starlight, then down town, then-into a
drinking-salo~u, while the wife sat in her room weeping,
because she was so miserable.
Thus two lives were wearing wretchedly away; but
the sun shone, the flowers bloomed, the birds sang, and,
the world went on all the same.

I

C


FOREVER

FOREVER?

CHAPTER XXV.
FOREVER?
T'S. fortunate that men and women are not ex~
pected to g&amp; oii doing the same thing forever
like Tennyson's monotonous little " Brook I"
What a stupid world if they were! Nor do they ex-
pect to march to the end of time all abreast down a long
lane that never turns, even if the philosophers do tell us
that reason is a straight line. No, indeed! for flogarth's
nice little idea about a curve being the line of beauty,
Dpsets all such straight-laced doctrines as these too com-
pletely. For does not the world go in for beauty, with
reason ~u con~traire? Exactly! and sometimes with the
d-.-l in full view.
"Uncle, mother writes that she is nearly crazy to see
me!" said Gertrude, handing him an open letter, which
she had just finished reading.
"Well!'~ answered the maternal relative, still looking
over his paper; for when was a man ever doing anything
else? If there are no papers up yonder, what will they
do with themselves? Worry the angels correspondingly?
"And I say, I am nearly crazy to see her," again sug-
gested Gertrude.
"W011?" taking' up another paper, which eulogized
the action he tools upon a certain bill in the late Congress,
and looking through it with that feeling of grati~cation
which springs from knowing one's efforts are appreciated.

True, the papers were in regular order at the time we
make our descent upon "Pleasant Retreat," for it was
morning, and the hour, breakfast. Mr. hail sat at the head
of the table poriiig~Yver his papers, as before intimated-.
Gertrude sat upon his right reading her letters, and Paul
sat at the foot, reading a paper, of course. For once,
broiled chickens, waffles, hot-rolls, muffins, omelets, and
coffee lost their charms; and from the way the mail was'
being devoured," 'Liza-Jane" feared the~ appetites would
be appeased before they reached her tempting dishes; for
she came and went from dining-room to kitchen, being a
silent spectator of all that was going on, and thinking to
herself that one of her breakfasts was worth more than
all the pepeis and letters in the universe. "Ellen" had
served tl~o coffee, and "Fanny" kept her fly-brush mov~
ing energetically, although there wasn't a fly to be seen,,
and still nothing was touched. Standing it as long as she
could, "'Liza-Jane" now made her appearance with hot
waffles, and having handed them around without elicit-
ing any attention whatever, she took the liberty of touch-
ing the head of the family and saying:
"Marster, everything's gittin' cold; why don't yer eat?
Dem chickens iz jis as iiice as can be, fur one o' em is dat
speckled pullet, and other one is dat yaller-leg rooster
what I showed you 'isterday when I was a feeding 'em.
Don't, yer 'member?"
"Yes, yes, 'Liza, in a minute;" and he went on with
his paper. In despair, she then appealed to Gertrude,
saying:
"flab some o' dese waffles, Miss 'Trude? Dey's nice
*~nd hot."
8

168

II

I

169

~1


ITO                FOREVER?

FOREVER?                171

"Thank you, 'Liza, I will," she said, as she was now -
through reading her. letters; "for as I am, neither a Sen.
ator nor a candidate for Congressional or State honors, I
am not so deeply interested in the papers, and I will pro~
ceed to eat my breakfast."
"What's that yo.u are saying, Miss Impudence," asked
the uncle, who, no matter how deaf he was to the appeals
of every one else, always had an ear open to whatever
she said; and laying down the papers, he proceeded to
follow her example, by eating his breakfast.
"Nothing of importance to a Senator," replied the
niece, with an aadacity that was pardonable in such a
pretty woman.
"Indeed?" answered the Senator, trying to look very
dignified and austere.
"Was it, Mr. Maxwell?"
"Certainly not," said the addressed; and the truth is,
he would have sworn that black was white, or any other
absurdity that Gertrude desired, so gratified was he at
being noticed by her at all.
"Oh! of course, Hr. Maxwell is too polite to disagree
with a lady. But here, I want all this nonsense between
you two stopped; and II want you, Gertrude; to call that
boy Paul. Do you hear?"
"May I ?" she asked, with a bewitching smile, and an
irresTistible glance from her expressive gray eyes, which
thrilled him with a strange delight as he answered:
"I shall be only too happy if you will;" and from that
moment his infatuation was more intense than ever be.
fore.
"Well, now, that being settled, tell me, Gertrude, what
it was you were saying about your mother."

"I said she was crazy to see me."
7Of course, a woman is always crazy about something.
If it isn't a dress or a bonnet, it's a child or a poodle, or
something else equally insignificant!"
"A child or a poodle!" exclaimed the indignant
beauty. But her indignation was only momentary, and
she joined her uncle and Paul in their laugh in spite of
herself.
"Come, don't go into heroics, diild. It's too hot, and
besides, they are out of date."
"Uncle, you've no more feeling than a brute!"
"Surely, now, we can play quits and each feel sufilci-
ently avenged. But tell me, what are you going to do
with this crazy mother of yours?"
"I'm going to see her!"
"The mischief you are! Who said so?" -
"Nobody!"
"How do you know you are, then?"
"I just know it!" (womanly~.)
"Who's going with you?"
"I don't know that either!"
"Nor don't care 2"
"Not particularly."
"But I thought you were to stay with me?"
"Forever?"
"Certainly !"
"When I'm married, and for all time?" -
"Of course!" and a meaning glance exchanged with
Paul might have revealed a fond desire, if not a secret
understanding between* the two. But it was lost on
Gertrude, as she answered in surprise:
"And never go to see my mother?. Why, uncle!"


172                FOREVER?                                                     FOREVER?                173

I

Without noticing her reference to her mother, he said:
"When do you go?"
"At once!"
"Bat you haven't asked my permission?"
"But I will , though;" and leaving her seat she knelt at
his feet, and rested her roui~d white arms upon his knees;
then clasping her little, soft white hands together, looked
up into his face iii her most killing way, and said:
"Dear uncle, may I go home to see my mother?"
The veriest woman-hater would have been vanquished
by such a beautiful petitioner, and raising her to a seat
on his knee, Mr. Hall said:
"Ab me! you women know so well how to steal into a
man's heart and carry him captive, whether he wil~ it or
not."
"Do we, though? And if we do, who has been bold
enough to dare to try to steal into yQur hard old bacho-
br's heart."
"Here is the daring little rogue;" and putting both
arms around her, he kissed her affectionately, while his
heart glox~ed with a warmth for her that he had never
felt for any one else.
"I feel much complimented, uncle, and I trust I shall
never be supplanted."
"No danger; never fear."
"But am II. to go home?"
U you will I suppose you must, and I want you to
tell your mother to get you ready to go to Washington
with me."
"Oh uncle, how delightful that will be!"
"It is now the last of September--i shall go in No
member, so you ~have. plenty of time.

"Oh dear, h~w charming that will be!" then catching
a glimpse of Paid's face, which instead of reflecting back
her happiness, as she anticipated, wore really a sad ex-
pression, she hurried to say:                 N
"And will you not take Paul too?" for the first time
calling him by his name.
"Of course, and ~ Liza-Jane,' and 'Harry;' and we
will keep house, as we do here."
"I certainly am obliged to you both," said Paul, "and IL
only wish that I could join you, but by November 1 ex~
pect to be in 1~he far West."
"What nonsense! to talk of leaving dear old Georgia.
I wouldn't give her for every other State in the Union."
"Good!" said Mr. Hall, as his heart echoed the~
sentiment of Gertrude. "Spoken as my nie~e~ should
speak. But, Paul, I thongh1~ you baa al)andoned the
Western trip.~ At any rate you will take another trip first,
and that will be to see this young lady home, as it is un-
possible for me to go with her."
"But suppose Paul doesn't want to go?" asked Ger-
trude quickly.
"But he does want to go," was the ready rejoinder.
"But suppose I don't want you to go?" she asked with
a side look from underneath her long, dark lashes.
"That alters the case," was the disappointed reply.
"Don't mind her, Paul; she's dying to have you go, b~t
you know women are never happy unless they are tor~
meeting somebody. So I'll leave you to fix it between
you, for I have already given too much time to your non-
sense this morning."
"Nonsense, uncle?" said Gertrude with a pretty pout;
but only a puff of smoke came back to her as he entered

I

173

172


174                FOREVER?                                                     A CHECK!                175

his study, and sitting down by Paul, she helped him,
without intending it, of course c?), to lose his heart more
h~peIessly than ever; and no doubt, as they sat there talk-
ing, the Western trip was entirely forgotten.
Who knows~?                                                                    OIIAPTER X
A CHECK!
WEEK later, Virginia Ii
for the amount he had na
at it, a hot flush swept ov
it into her lap, he said:
"Viro'inia! how could you m~
b
"Mortify yop, Clifford?" and ti
suffused with tears.
"Yes, mortify! for your father
"lie does not even know that
it for myself; and besides, what
his money but give it to me? lie
it all belongs to me, and has espc
shall never hesitate to ask him
his meaiis."
But Clifford did not answer, cvc
pride was deeply wounded, and he
of Iidw his father had. influenced h
instead of teaching him to ignore
come legitimately, or that was w
lab~r and industry. But even tho
instilled these precepts into him,
and his native nobility of soul was
ineinbered that he was little better

zxvi.
Landed Clifford a check
1med; but upon looking
er his face, and tossing
rtify me so?"
ie gentle blue eyes were
will consider me a beg-
it is for you. I asked
else has he to do ~vith
has often told me that
~cia1ly requested that IL
For any amount within.
,n if lie heard, for his
was thinking bitterl~~
im to degrade himself,
money that did iiot
t the result of manly.
ugh his father had not
they were born there,
outraged, when he re-
than a beggar.. True,


U    176

A CHECK!

*A CItEVKI

he wanted the money, because it would save his father,
because it won Id relieve his mother, because it would
again rescue the dear old "Manor," but as yet he could
not bring himself to the revolting act of touching that
check.
"2tT~blesse oblige" said Wtake it!"
Then why did he hesitate?
Because his' conscience said, "you married that girl
for her money," "you are receiving and not giving," " you
are taking what is not due, and you know it i~ wrong."
What a troublesome thing a conscience is.!
There was nothing little in Clifford~s nature; indeed, he
could not even contemplate a small action without loath-
ing, and had he been left untrammeled, lie would have
died before doing for himself what he had done for his
father.
"Nobles8e oblige!" a pretty motto for a seal, ai~d a
beautiful theory in the al~stract.
But when it means a sacrifice of all moral obligation,
when it means an utter disregard of the better nature,
when it means to set at defiance God's holy laws; is it so
beautiful?
Granting, which we all do, that it is rig~it and proper
for families to stand by each other, it does not follow that
it is a Jilial duty to commit crime in doing so. Truly,
"money is the root of all evil," and he who makes it the
motive spring of his life, he who puts it in the place of
his God, will admit a demon into his breast which shall
give him no rest, and which shall corrupt the moral facul-.
ties so that vice will seem virtue.
While Clifford sat buried in thought which must have
beeu painful, judging by the troubled expression upon

!his face, Virginia sa~t watching him with feelings of the
deepest anxiety and sympathy, for she loved him.
What mattered it then that he loved another
lie could not help it, neither could she I ielp loving him;
more's the pity for botl~
So, in that hour, she forgot all his coldness and indiffer-.
ence which cut into her loving heart like a keen blade-
she only remembered that he was in trouble-that he ~as
unhappy, and with her woman's ready sympathy sh~e asked
herself: "What can I do fur him?"
She had offered her assistance-it had been rejected-.
and with her usual timidity she almost shrank from mak-
ing another effort. But a woman who truly love~ cannot
sit down xvith folded hands, when the loved one is suffer-
ing; and so, with all the courage she could command, she
leant on the table near him and said:
"Clifford, I beg that you will take this check. Do not
do it because you want to, but simply because I ask you
to." Still his position remained unchanged, and he
seemed buried in the most painful reflections. Watching
him with intense interest, she said again:
"Something troubles you. I do not know what it i~,
but God knows, if I could help you, I would love to do it."
They were simple words, but so full of truth that they
touched Clifford's heart more than a thousand passionate
protestations from any other lips would have done.
For an instant there was a pang in his heart, there
were tears in hi~ eyes, and drawing Virginia to him with
one arm, he said:
"My poor wife I if you knew all, you would~pity me;"
and leaning over, he pressed his. lips to her brow.
"Why not tell me all, then, Clifford? Why do .~you
8*

U

477


1Z8                 A CHECK!                                                        A Crn~CK!               179

not confide in me? I feel that I am only a wife in name
--I fear I am only a burden, instead 'of a comfort to you.
Come, Clifford, tell inc all; will you not?
" God ~ I cannot! " and puslung her gently from him,
he walked the floor impatiently, while she, poor child,
leant back ~in her chair, and tri~d to choke down the tears
that were bursting from lmer~ heart. Cannot! Is there
anything you cannot tell your wife-she who should be
alike the partner of your joys 'and woes? If there is,
remember~ while you read these hues, that there is a wall
growing up between you, which, in comhmg years, no
affection can climb oveu', no amount of love can batter
down. For there CO1U~5 a time when "too late" is
written down as the result of such conduct; and you will
find then, to your sorrow, that you cannot retrieve the
past. You may mend the future, but remember, that
when a heart is once estranged by slights, by coldness, by
continual neglect and indifference, that all the attentions,
all the devotion, all the assiduity in the world cannot put
back into it the freshness, the confidin~ love, the warmth,
which h~s been frozen out of it. A. deep chasm lies be-
tween you and the happy past, when you 'could have
built up in your wife's heart a great love for you. The
dreary, cheerfess present is upon you; the bleak, hopeless
future is before you; and on the banks of this chasm, so
close that you might clasp each other's hand if you chose
you walk singly down the declivity to eternity. What
a picture! ~You two, who should be one! You two, who
should be the support and comfort of each other's de-
clining years, trudging' on alone. And yet this is what
must come, if you begin your married life' without love,
and then' live~ that life strangers.
4,

"Clifford, I ask you again to take this check;" and
slipping her hand in his arm, Virginia joined her hus-
band in his walk across the room.
"If you'll promise not to hate me, I'll take it;" and
he looked searchingly into her face to see if . she could
say one thing and mean another.
"Hate you, Clifford?" while her soft blue eyes re-
turned the searching lookNhe gave. "That would be im-
possible!" and lookiiig at her love-lit face, one could not
help believing that she spoke the truth. Then turning to
Clifford, it did not seem strange that women adored him,
for he was handsome, intellectual, fascinating, the soul of
honor and chivalry; and his faults, as we see, were de-
veloped by wrong paternal training, and a chain of cir-
cumstances which were beyond his control.
It's all very well for successful people to say, "I would
have risen superior to circumstances;" but if they have
l)een so fortunate as to steer clear of the breakers, we
think that charity would be more commendable than
arrogance, when they see a brother threatened with ship-
wreck. For let them remember, that so long as life lasts,
and even until their bark is anchored on the shores of
Eternal Rest, there is danger.
The wife's last appeal and- assurance won! Clifford
took the check, and going straight to his office, enclosed
it itl\ a letter to his father. Th&amp; communication was
enough to have moved a heart of stone; but, doubtless,
upon its reception, it will ~be tossed into the fire with
oaths, while the check will be seized with all the' avidity
which a man can feel who has made nioney his God.

178

179


180

MAT19

MAY d9

CHAPTER XXVII.

MAY 1

ERT1~tTDE had now been home several days
and of course everybody knew it-for an inci-
dent in the village was almost as rare as a case
of small-pox, and in consequence, not to be overlooked.
her arrival formed the principal topic of conversation
in the community, and the fact that Paul Maxwell had
escorted her, was sufficient provocation for the committee
of arrangements to announce an engagement, and appoint
an early day for the marriage. They did everything but
make the trou8seu,~ and issue cards ,of invitation ;and
some of the extra-knowing ones said that" all that prepara-
tion for Washington meant a' wedding."
Everybody had been to welcome Gertrude home, and
much to the chagrin of the few (?j~ visitors who loved, not
truth less, but news more, the name of the strange young
man was not mentioned by either mother or daughter.
This was more than woman nature conld stand, and for
revenge, the invisible class of reporters known as "they
say" wove a pretty little story, which, for warp, woof~ and.
~ilhng, was all their own
Mrs. Lawrence found Gertrude muck' stronger in
health and happier in spirits, and with that fond delusion
which makes' desire belief, she flattered herself that five
months of absence had worked a radical change ~in her
daughter for the better.

1'81

She thought she had forgotten the "old love," and
secretly hoped ~she was on with "the new '" for Pa~I was
a. great favorite with both mother and uncle, and accord-
ing to the world's phraseology, "a good initch for any
girL" So little do mothers, even, know of the hearts of
their children. True, Gertrude's past was buried out of
sight, but was it forgotten? She was a woman of deep
and lasting feeling, not a humming-bird flitting from
flower to flower, and down in her heart were memories
which death alone ~ould uproot. But the roses again
bloomed in her cheeks, her step was light and elastic, and
her laugh and song once more rang merrily through the
house. The neighbors, whom she ran in and out to see,
were deligl~ ted to have her back, and in their eagerness
to tell her a~l the news, never failed to inform her of how
dreadfully dissipated Clifford Troup had become, or of
how wretchedly Mrs. Troup looked. These things, Ger-
trude well knew, were told to her for effect; but the
curious eyes that watched for a blush or a tremor were
disappointed, for she held her feelings well in check, and
quietly dismissed the subject by saying:
"The reports must be exaggerated."
As much a~ she heard, though, she was poorly prepared
for the wreck she met in returning Mrs. Baker's call; and
indeed it was difficult to realize that the pale, sad woman,
who exchanged- the usual conventionalities w th her, was
the blooming bride from whom she parted a few months
before. Yet it wa's true, and such is the havoc that . a
mind diseased can play with a body that is healthy.
Strange to say, Gertrude had not yet even caught a
glimpse of clifford, but to those who know aught of the
iniier feelings, it will be~no matter of surprise to hear


that they thought of each other mutually. Perhaps it
was the wrong thing for them to do, but they did it
nevertheless, and meant no harm in thus thinking'
Paul's visit, was now drawing to a close, and as this
was his last afternoon, Gertrude had promised him a
drive and a walk through The Terraces.
The horses stood pawing impatiently at the gate, and
while the young lady in question, was giving the ifflishing
touches to her toilette, her escort walked thoughtfully
back and forth upon the vine-covered gallery, clreamiiig
of the future-of what it might be.
For once, be it remembered, one human being took the
advice of another; for since the day when Mr. hail ad~
vised Paul to do his wooing by actions rather than words,
he followed his counsel to the letter. Scarcely a day
passel but he sent her something-a bouquet, a basket of
fruit, a bunch of grapes, a book, a piece of music, or some
little thing which spoke more eloquefitly, yet mn6re deli-
cately, than words. Words would have been rejected, and
perhaps have induced a coldness which would have been
a* death-blow to even friendship between theni; but the
little gifts which were daily sent and daily accepted were
softening the heart unconsciously, and perchance, paving
the way to future success. Who knows?
However, our surmises may be all wrong, ~for there
never have been any flied laws by which to judge of
womankind, and measuring the future by the past, there
never will be, so long as a woman's a~woman.
"You see, Paul, punctuality is not one of my virtues;
I hope patience is one of yours;" and this was the apol.
ogy for detaining him nearly one hour behind their ap.
pointmnent-something not unusual for women to do, since

182                  MAY                                                             MAY i?                  183:

their minutes are other people's hours, and seconds a
period pf time not set down in their calendars.
With his heart all in a flutter, Paul forgot all time car-
dinal virtues, and all the cardinal sins, and everything
but the beautiful woman before him, as he gallantly re-
plied:
"To wait an eternity for you would be nothing, so you
came at last;" and his very soul beamed through his
eyes, as he spoke.
"Come, come," said Qertrude, blushing and feeling
very uncomfortably, as he handed her into the buggy;
"you must not flatter me."
"Why not?" taking up the reins, and rather glad of an
outlet for what he feared was too much enthusiasm for
the present.
"So you confess it was flattery?" with an arch of her
faultless eyebrows.
"I'll confess anything you wish me t&amp;," Was the playful
rejoinder.
"And are these ~the teachings you have received at
'The Retreat '? I'll have to report you to uncle."
'~ But you can't eXl)ect to confine a man to any teach-
ings or any particular theories, when he is in the presence
of a beautiful woman;" and again his heart poured forth
its fullness against his will.
"Why what is th&amp; matter with you this evening? I
never heard you talk so before. But 'see, what a lovely
place we are passing 1"
"Yes, it's very beautiful; but speaking of your uncle,
would you believe that he was ever guilty of planning a
love-campaign?"
"No, never!"


~[84                   MAY i?

MAY                       185

"INot for himself, but for a friend!"
"~6t he never thinks of such silly things!" with a
sneer.
"Such silly things, Aid you say?"
"Idid!"
A rapid drive had brought them to The Terraces, and
as they entered the beautiful grounds, Paul wa~ saying:
"But you didn't mean what you said ? ~
"how do you know?" evasively.
"Which is worse, flattery or falsehood ?"
"Falsehood?" and as Gertrude stood beneath one of
the numerous arches of evergreens, in those bewildering
gardens, she tried to look indignant, but upon catching a
glance from Paul's mischievous eyes, she couldn't help
laughing, at the same time saying: "I think you are very
impertinent!"
"A thousand pardons," gracefully lifting his hat, "for,
really, J didn't mean to be;" and as he looked into her
face, she could not doubt his words. "Am IL forgiveix?"
"Oh, I suppose so; but don't let us waste our time in
such idle talk, when we h~ve only a little while to ex~joy
this lovely spot;" and with these words she turned do~vxi
one of the broad, shaded avenues throi~gh whose over-
arching boughs the setting sun was forcing a few sti'ag-
gling ~bcams. Paul followed her, and said,~ rather re-
proachfully:
"~Suclx idle talk ! ~
"Yes, I never feel like talking here; I always feel
silenced by the beauty of the surroundings. See here!"
and as they stood beneath a grand old oak, Paul followed
the direction of Ixer finger, and read, in German text of
evergreen letters tipon the ground: "GQd is Love."

a

* "That's my doctrine,~' he answered, "and I have
always argued and felt that if the world is not saved by
love, that it c~n never be saved by fear; for. men will not
be ruled by the law of compulsion, not even in the salva.
tion of their souls."
Busy with the memories of other days, Gertrude. wan-
dered on silently, until they reached* a spot known as
"the parlor," the furniture consisting of arm-chairs and
divans cut out of the oedars.
There she sat do~vn, while Paul walked leisurely back
and forth, and the quietness of the hour stole over them
like the inhalation of some soothing ether, chilling their
senses and making them feel at peace with all the world.
Gertrude's face was always sad when in repose, but Paul
fancied there was a pained expression mingled with the
sadness that evening; and so there was, for the grounds~
recalled the happiest hours of her life and the most
wretched. Forgetting that any one was n~ar, a sigh
escaped her, and she only remembered that she was not
alone ~vhen Paul said:
"Why do you sigh?"
"For the days that are no more." Paul felt an un-
comfortable twinge about the heart at these words; for
the gossip about her old love-affair had reached him during
his stay iii the village, and although he fancied he was
indifferent to the ~mors, a little pang just then told a
different story.
"I wish I could recall them for you, if they would give
you pleasure ; '~ and he watched her to see the effect of his
words.
"If you would not give mc pain, rec~ell your wish," she


186             MAi? 1

said, with an attempt at a smile, which ended in a sigh.
Then arising, she walked bn, saying:
"You should know the lovely woman who presides
over these grounds; but if, as they say, one' life takes
coloring from their employment, we should ~5tb e sur-
prised at her purity of character', for these flowers and
her God are her daily companions."
"With such companions I can readily believe all that
you tell me, for next to communion with God, there can
be no associations so refining and so pure as the society
and cultivation of flowers."
* Then they walked on silently, beneath trees covered
with ivy and surmounted with rustic bird-houses, around
which the swallows flitted, beneath arched of evergreens,
down ivy-covered terraces, past beds of heliotropes, ger-
aniums, oleanders, and orange-trees; on tl~ rough the
twilight air, which was heavy with the perfume of inyr-
jads of roses, through patches of light and shadow, by
murmuring fonn~tains, while the young crescent kissed
the whole with its silver beams, and the birds twittered
good-night, and a grayish pifrple haze settled down upon
the lovely scene. When giving one last lingering loof~,
they felt, "how beautiful !"
Their souls were surfeited to sadness, their natures
were soothed to gentleness, their hearts were too full for
utterance, and driving slowly do~vn the lawn, they almost
regretted having come, since they had to leave; but
neither spoke. Gertrude felt that Paul was too much a
member of the family to be talked to unless she fek like
it, and only too glad to indulge any whim of hers, he
was kind enough to leave her alone; so they drove silently
along in the deepening twilight.

A few moments more, and they stood at the door of
her home with clasped hands.
"Good-by," said Paul.
"Oh, dear; don't tell me 'good-by.' I never say
~11~
goou-1y'to any one.
'But Pm going away, and perhaps we may never
meet again."
"So much the more reason why I shall not say 'good-
by.' So go-go quickly, and P11 run and get aii old
shoe to throw after you for good luck;" and while she
went to put her words into execution, Mrs. Lawrence*
came out and said:
"Will you not remain to tea, Paul ?"
"No, thank you, as I have only time to arrange my
little matters before the stage leaves. Have you any rues-
sages for your bi'other?"
"Yes; tell him we are well, and that I owe hi!n many
thanks for returning Gertrude to me so strong and happy.
Tell hi in, also, that I will have her ready f~r the Wash-
ington trip-but, I have a letter *" and as she went in to
get it, Gertrude came out laughing and saying:
"Why, haven't you gone yet, Paul? The shoe is
'ready;" and she held up a tiny slipper to verify her
words.         -
"No, I haven't gone, because I have a repiest to make
before I go."
"What is it?"
"May I write to you?"
"If you like ; ~' with a shrug of the shoulders.
"Don't be so indifferent! Will you answer my
letters?"

I

ii

187

MAY Ix?

186


188

MAY 19?

" I suppose !" with a tantalizing air, as her- mother
joined them.
" Oh, mother, Paul wishes me to correspond with him.
May I "
" Certainly, my darling ; I have no objection. How-
ever, do as you like."
Then handing the letter to Paul, he grasped her hand,
and said:
" Good-by, Mrs. Lawrence. You surely have no objec-
tion to telling me 'good-by.'"
" Only the pain of parting with one I like so much."
It was hard to conceal his real feelings, and be' as in-
different as he thought it best to be; but he was equal to
the occasion, and, assuming 'a gayety which appeared ex-
ceedingly natural, he turned to Gertrude, and said,
smilingly:
" Good-by 1"
"Na, no, not that to me."
" What must I say, then?"
" Au revoir !"
" Au revoir, then, with all my heart !" and bowing
gracefully, he took, his departure, while Gertrude lau gh-
ingiy threw the slipper after him. Stooping, he picked
it up, and, turning back, heard Mrs. Lawrence say :-
" Why, daughter !"
"Why, mother !" then fell upon his ears ; and hurry-
ing on in the starlight, he thought:
"If she only loved me!"

P.

I

I89

CHAPTER XXVIII.
LNso!
YOUNG girl sat with beautiful hands folded
idly upon her lap, looking out of the window at
the sky, but she didn't know it was the sky. Now
and then she heaved a sigh, but knew it not. Anon she-
took up a book, but to throw it down.
Then she tried her music, but ended as abruptly as she
began; and if the truth must be told, she thought it would
be an immense satisfaction to' pitch the piano into the
ocean, for thus refusing to comfort her once. .
Then, she tried to talk to her mother, but after a few
questions and as many drowsy monosyllables for replies,
the conversation died. Sewing was then resorted to, but
as the needle only pricked her finger, that was soon aban-
doned in despair. Sleep was then'thought of as the last
hope, but the coquettish goddess was not to be entrapped
that day, and thus, the last resource proved as great a-fail-
ure as the first. At length the neighbors were thought
of, but they were dismissed with a shudder, and this semi-
wretched girl finally settled down to being' lonesome and
mniserab~le in dead earnest.
The world, that great ignoramus, that thinks it knows
everything, but really knows nothing, said she ought to
be very happy ; and as the world said so, it ought to have
been so; but wgas sheik
Else why was she lonesome?

I

I

LomESOME.


190           ~LONEsoME-                                                   LEOM.

Was it because a bright face that she had seen daiiy
for months was gone
She would not admit, even to herself, that this was the
cause; but we, who have no concealments to make, will
acknowledge it for her.
And so she sat--not oniy lonesome, but lonely.
.   .           .    .    .   .    0   ..g
" Pleasant Retreat" looked like it had furnished a first-
class funeral for the sober reflection of the world, and the
master wore the. air of chief-mourner, as-he said aloud:
" How I miss her !"
And so you see people do soliloquize somewhere else
than in Shakspeare's plays.
It was no matter of surprise that he was lonesome, for
is it nothing to have life, light, beauty, and youth taken
from out a crumbling ruin is it nothing to have the
warmnth and sunshine taken away from a heart that must
boi-row its freshness from just such a source?
Is it nothing to sit waiting for a merry laugh-a light
song-a sweet kiss-a quick footstep-a lovely form-a-
loving word Try it, and see if you will not be lonesome
when it is taken away.
And No. 8 was lonesome too ! Only think of it ! Three
human beings in this busy, bustling. world, and ~all so
lonesome ! Listless, he sat with Blackstone open before
him, and the pages tantalizingly reflected her beautiful
features. Then he would sigh and look at the trees, and
even they looked dreary ; the air was, heavy with lone-
someness, and his dog, partaking of his mood, looked as
disconsolate as his young master, as he snapped drowsily
at the flies which tormented him.

Then there was an absolute pang came into his heart,
as he remembered her indifference. Of course it was all
about a woman-misery- and mischief generally 'are.
From being lonesome he became restless-the house be-
came intolerable, and throwing down his book, he went
into the woods; but even there the red and golden trees
sighed mournfully, the little squirrel cracked his nut
drowsily, and the whole world seemed Lonesome.

4

1~

191

II
i~.
14
Ii
1!
ii
I

Ii

190

LoNEsoMS.

j
k
1*
I
ii
II
ii
IL,


192               I BESEECH YOU.

193

CIIAPTER XXIX.
I BESEECh You!
OThER, Ii do not feel like going."
"But I would make an effort, my darling-.
indeed, 'I specially request it; for if you are not
there, it will be noticed, and remarks may be made which
we would not relish."
"Enough, enough; I will go!" was the somewhat im-
patient reply; and, with burning cheeks, Gertrude left
the room.
The place she did not feel like going to was Judge
Baker's; the occasion, an invitation to meet the success-
ful candidate and a few friends who had worked ener-
getically to seenre his election.
The triumphant man was Clifford Troup; and while
Gertrude rejoiced in his good fortune, she would rather
not have met him.
Who can blame her?
Certainly, not you and I, who know everything; rather
should we commend her for wishing to avoid him. Bat
that scarecrow, public opinion, and her mothei~'s wishes,
forced her into unwilling obedience, and against her incli-
nations she accepted the invitation. She ran over alone,
as :it was 50 near' and soon after her arrival a baud of
music and a crowd of men gathered in the street before
the house. After some soul-stirring music by the band,
cries of "Troup, Troup," rai~g out upon the night air, and

I
I

it was evident that nothing but the sight of the ccuiquer-
ing hero would satisfy the enthusiastic demand.
As yet, Gertrude had not, seen him, for he was stand-
ing at the extreme end of the gallery, talking to a group
of gentlemen. Increased calls from the crowd brought
him forward; and in a graceful little speech, which pos-
sessed the unusual merit of not having a word too much
r a word too little, he thanked his constituents for the
h nor they had conferred upon him, and pledged himself,
b all that men, hold sacred, to endeavor to be worthy of
th trust thus reposed. The bright moonlight fell full in
hi face; and, from behind a pillar against which she
1 ned, Qertrud~ could see that he was flushed and
h ggard. This pained her: for she knew, if the habit
hidi was growing upon him could be broken, that a
brilliant future awaited him; but 'if persisted in, that it
would lead inevitably to his ruin.
The young wife, who stood by her s!de, did not seem
to have ammy apprehensions, though, for her face was
beaming with joy and pride.~ This only lasted, however,
while her husband was speakingg, and when he ceased,
she gave a sigh and sat down, as if from weakness or
fatigue. Judge Bak5 and two or three others followed
Clifford in short but appropriate speeches, and after the
usual hurrahing and music, the crowd dispersed, leaving
the guests to the customary enjoyments of such occasions.
Oddly enough, Mrs. Troup and Gertrude were left to en-
tertain each other most of the evening; for, notwitf~-
standing the autumn air was chilly, they both declined
going into the parlor or dining-room, w ere, doubtless,
the merriment that existed was to be attl4buted to~ rare
wines, and the goo~i feeling consequent upon success.
9
ii

I BE5Eii~CH YOU.

192

I


194                1 BESEECH YOU.                                                I BESEECh YOU.               W5

"So you like our little town?" Gertrude was saying.
"Yes," answered Mrs. Troup; "for although I have
seen comparatively little of the people, yet that little has
been ~'ery kind and pleasant."
" Y s, they are the dearest, best people in the world,,
aild uniformly kind and appreciative. I regret to hear
you have not been well."
"You are very kind; but I am going home soon, and
I think that will cure me.
"You have not been home since your marriage?"
"Why, what a hero! for, do you know, I think it must*
require a. great deal of courage to be alone amongst
strangers so long, with only your husband for a friend,
and he almost a stranger, too."
"Well, I suppose we ml~ght think so; but I'm not very
courageous, and yet I've gotten along very nicely." And
tinis these two women~ exchanged the ijsual and inevitable
platitudes common to their sex; while th&amp; bitter thought,
"he loves her," intruded itself upon th~ wife, and, Ger-
trude wondered if they were happy, never dreaming that
the wee, pale woman, who sat opposite her, knew all2~
Such is life; and thus do we try, but all in' vain, to dis-
cover the inmost thoughts of each other6 There was a
pause in the conversation, which was interrupted by a
familiar voice saying:
"Ah! Virginia, I was in search of you.. how do you
feel ?"
"Fatigued;" and as he did not speak to Gertrude, she
said, "here is your old friend, Miss Lawrence."
"Why, Miss Gertrude!" (shaking hands.) "I have

I

not had the pleasure of s.eein~ you since your v~turn.
AIlow~ me to welcome you home~"
"Thank you; I'm. really glad to get back once more."
"But you had a pleasant visit?"* N
"Oh, yes; very quiet, but. very pleasant."
"I must bid you 'good-night,' now, Miss Lawre~e%",
said Mrs. Troup, "for I fear I have already taxed my
strength too much."
"I hope not; I'm sure. Good-night;" and they shook
hands, after the conventional mo.de,
As they were leaving, Gertrude said tQ Clifford:
"Can you tell r~ie where I can find. Judge Baker, for
I must be going too."
"Are you alone. ~"
~' Then I will see you home in a moment; as soon as.~ I
see Mrs. Troup to her room."
~' Thank you, no; I will not trouble you; and, if Judge
Baker is engaged, I. do not mind running across. the street.
alone."
"But you must not;" and leading his wife away, he
said, '1711 be back in a moment."
She felt that it: was wrong to accept his escort, and it
was ao'ainst her judgment to do so; bat~ what else could
do without seeming rude?
And by the time she ha4 bidden Judge and Mrs~ Ba-
ker." good-night," Cliffod. was at her side, saying:
"I am ready;" and taking his arm, they. went silently
down the moonlit avenue, and. out into the street. A
short walk, and they wore at Gertrude's. home, without
exchanging a word.
"Qood~nicrht" said Gertrude. "I'm much obliged to

PR


N

196

I BESEECn YOU.

you for ~seeing me home;" and her extended hand was
grasped so tightly as to make it painful.
"Gertrude, I hear you are to be married to Paul Max-
well."
"You can hear many things, if you'll only listen."
"Is it true?"
"It is not."
"You declare?" in an excited tone.
"I declare, upon my ~honor, it is false," she answered
with dignity. Then releasing her hand, which he bad
held unconsciously, he said, with great earnestness:
"Gertrude, I beseech you not to mai'ry him;" and the
flush deepened on his brow, and the odor of liquor on his
breath was wafted into the face of his fair histene~r.
"Why need you make such an unnecessary request? ~'
"Because I would save you the misery I daily endure."
"Why do you talk this way, Clifford? Why can you
not be happy with your wife? She is lovely, an din
every respect worthy of your affection."
More's the, pity! and do not think I am more unhappy
for myself than for her, for with her' woman's instinct
she suspects something is wrong, although she does not
know it. i hate myself for the injury I have done her,
and I know that there is nothing but misery in store for
both of us."
"But, Clifford, you should make it the study of youi
life to render her happy, and if you have wronged her,
the duty you now owe is doubly 'binding."
"I know it-I feel that every word you speak is true.
But if you were compelled to 'live with a person *daily,
whom you did nojt love, you would then understand how
loathsome that companionship will become;" and sitting

I BESEECH YOU.              191
down upon the steps, he looked away into the moon-
lio'ht.
"Bat you should reject these feelings as disloyal, and
if possible, cultivate a cheerful resignation to what you
cannot avert."
"flow easy to talk, but how hard to do!"
Then there was silence for a few moments, and corn-
* prehen ding that it was neither right to encourage this
accidental and most unexpected visit, nor the expression
of such sentiments, Gertrude said:
"Clifford, if IL could do anything for~ you, ~you know
how gladly I would do it; but as IL cannot, I think it best
for me to say good-night;" and again she extended her
hand to him.
Arising and taking it, he said rather reproachfully, for
men are over-sensitive when drinking:
"So you send me away, do you?"
"Yes, because I think it is bett&amp; for you, better for
your wife, and better for me, that this interview shall not
be prolonged;" and clasping her hand in both of his,~ he
said:
"Gertrude, I beseech you again not to marry Paul
Maxwell, for unless you love him, you. will be utterly
wretched."
"1 have no idea ~f marrying any one, Clifford; so
do not give yourself any solicitude on my account. But
let me beseech you, as a friend, not to yield to the habit
which is already growing upon you at such a fearful
rate!"
"lilt doesn't matter what IL do. IL have lost all ambition,
and I have no future."
"And is all your pride gone too?"


I BE~S1M~CII Y00.                                                             I BESI~ECH YOU.                   I9f~

~" What is pride oranything else wheii one iswretched?"
"Oh! Clifford, you degrade your manhood by yielding
to a feeling which you should struggle with all your
might to overcome. And remember, disappohitment is
the common lot of man, and you are not the first or only
one whose hopes have failed to be realized."
* "Gertrude, I know all this; and had I not committed
the unpardonable. crime of marrying that innocent child,
I should be strong and ready to battle with any fate.
But that act hangs like a dead weight about me, and
~ems dragging me dow~ to ruin."
"But it doesn'tTelieve you from the solemn obligations
you took upon yourself when you married her. You are
her husband, and she is your wife, just the s~xne as if you:
loved her, and sympathy for her unfortuii~te condition
should make you inor~ punctilious than ever in the dis~
charge of your duty."
"Who says I do not do my duty as a hn~baimd?"
" I do," was the feadess answer of ~th~ woman who
bad seen all the lI~Yrr(ws of a drunkard's life portrayed hi
her father's terrible career; "for no man can do his duty
to any one or an~4hing who is constantly under the influ~
ence C4 liq3ior."
Stung to the quick by these words, and springing to
his feet, he said excitedly:
"No man dare speak ~ to me!"
asawotnan and a friend I dare do it~ and it is
with the hope of a~rousing that chivalry in your breast,
which I know is only deadened by the base poiscm which
~ou ~ailydrink2'
Resuming his seat upon the steps, he said not a word;
lint buried his face in his hands.

Then t1i~ heroic girl, seeing that he was at last
touched, knelt beside him, and said:
"Clifford, you know ~ou feel that I am right. IDo not
turn a deaf ear to what I &amp;ay, but determine now, th is
moment, to. abandon a habit which must bring upon its
victims, at last, ruin and degradation. Promise me that
you will henceforth devote yourself to the happiness of
your wife and to the cultivation of those talents which
you undoubtedly possess."
Taking his hands from his face, and turning around,
he regarded the beautiful leader at his side with a feel..
ing of reverence, as he said:
"Gertrude, your advice deserves the highest respect;
not more for the unflinching friendship it reveals, than
for the nobility of sentiment which has prompted it. I
will try and do what you have asked, and God knows, if
I am reformed, I shall owe it all to you. Good-night."
"Good-night, and may God help you;" then shaking
bands, they parted. Tie, to return to the desolation of
his wife's chamber, and she, to return thanks for the~
strength which had been given her to speak those words
of counsel.


200.                 WELL, PAUL?                                                          WELL, PAUL?                 201

Ol-JAPTER XXX.
WELL, PAUL?
ELL, Paul, what does she say?"
"She says she misses m&amp;terribly," rep lied the
young student~ while an iptense smile of satis-
faction lit' up his manly face.
"Misses you terribly?" repeated ~he master of "Pleas-
ant Retreat," while looking over the inevitablee paper.
"Those are her words, sir," again ~'~d
too happy to dwell upon the subject.  Paul, as if only
"Well, that's not so bad; indeed, if I were in your
place, I should consider them exceedii~gly encouraging."
"Young ladies are so' capricious, '~ir, that I think it
safer to take them by contraries."  ~
"Gertrude is not capricious, and she certainly is less
of a coqnette than any woman I ever $aw. Take for ex-
ample her conduct while here. Wh$r, sir, nine womei~.
out of ten would have encouraged yo~u to' mak~ love to
them, just for pastime or conquest, even if their feelings.
had not been enlisted."
"I hope what you say is true, sir."
"nut you doubt it," taking up another paper. "Wait
until you see more of the world, and you will then
know what Ii ~say is true. But what about your Western
trip!"
"I have almost abandoned it, sir."
Sensible boy! Besides, going West to find ready-

made fortunes iS chasing an ideal anyhow, for a man
who 5ucc~~ds honestly must be content to do it by honest
strokes. It is better so, for then economy will take care
of what manly labor provides, while money that is easily
made is spent as recklessly; and it is not uncommon to
see the precarious owner of such unstable fortunes fight~
ing both remorse and poverty in the evening of life.
~o, boy, stay in Georgia, for with her industrious, active
population, and her great internal resources deveh)ped, she
is obliged to become one of the first States in the Union,
and there's no need for young men to seek a better open-
ing elsewhere."
"Your advice is always wise, sir, and I am honored to
be the object of your interest."
"Are you quite ready for your examination?"
"I believe so, sir, except a few little points about which
I should like to consult you this morning if you can spare
me the time."
"Certainly, certainly; come into the Study, and we'll
~ee what it is;" and while they go in for a consultation,
we will wend our footsteps elsewhere. Unwillingly, it
may be; but an author must go forward, no matter how
much he would like to rest, no matter how much his
heart aches over scenes upon which he must look, but
from which he would turn away if it were possible.
9*

t


V

202

XiLLIN*~ TBZ 1~TTED CALF.

C~LtAPTE.R xxx:i.
XLLLING TIlE FATTED CALF.
HE glorious . month of October went by without
rniy 'incident
Only think of it!  notein onr little world.
Superb days, gorgeous forests, bracing air, 1na~gniflcent
6tinsots, summer dying, and no one seemed to ~eare
That i~, noue '~f ~our immediate friends, Lor th~y were
all too busy with themselves to stud~ the beauties of nat-
ure.
&amp; :the'thirt~one days c~f autumn-time ~were gone, and
~ear1y in the month of November 'the good mothers at
"Mossy Creek" and the "Manor," with a bevy of colored
assistants, were turnitig the two housesinsideout, in an-
ticipation of. an ~early visit from their ~children, for the
~uceessfnl representative was to spend a ~few days at
home,. before proceeding to the Capitol. Such a dusting
* a~d scouring, and washui~g of window; and putting 'down
carpets, and ~baking cake; .fand making pickles, etc., etc.,
had been rarely seen; 'but the expected ~i~itors were held
in high esteem at eachii'espective place, and the fatted
calf 'had been killed in honor of their coming.
At length the appointed day arrived, the carriages had
been sent to the city, and as the sun went down Mr, and
Mrs. Troup walked through the, park to the lodge gate to
speak to their children, e~ ya&amp;~ant, for of course they
would go on to "Mossy Creek" for the first night.

~1LUNG TH~ FATTIW CALF.

~2O3

The father and mother looked older than when we last
saw them; the wrinkles had deepened upon the face of
the one, the hair of the other had grown grayer, and as
they walked back and forth in the grass, they were sad
and silent.
Mr. Troup was not thinking of his son's welfare, though,
for he was in trouble about money, as. usual, and was
puzzling his brain to 'kndw how he could again apply to
Clifford for assistance.
how different with the mother! She was wondering
her son was happy, and if he was doing his whole duty
to his~yormg wife; for she felt that she could endure see-
ing her daughters mistreated by other men, rather than
have a son whom she had reared disloyal or indifferent to
the woman he had married.
A bank of purple clouds, flecked with crimson, and
gold, stretched across the western sky, and as the fading
sunbeams fell upon the silent couple, the rumble of
wheels startled them. Exchanging a glance with his wife,
Mr. Troup said:
"They are coming!" and w.ith these words they both
stepped o~itside the gate.
A moment afterwards, the carriage stopped, and affe~-
tionafe greetings were mutually exchanged.
The kisses and embraces over, Mr. Troup stood upon
the carriage-step talking to Virginia, while Clifford's arm.
lovingly enfolded his mother, who was saying to him
anxiously:
"You. are not well, my boy."
"Oh, yes; very well, but a . little out of sorts," he an-
swered, with an attempt at a~sinile.
"And Virginia looks wretchedly. What is the matter.
with her?"


204.         KILLING TDE FATTED CALF.

205

KILLING THE FATTED CALF.

"The poor child is homesick, I think! We will both
'be all right now in a few days; will we not, Virginia ?"
"What is it, Clifford? I do not understand."
"Mother says we both look so miserably, and I said to
her as we were only homesick that we would soon be all
right. Will we not?"
"I hope so," with a sigh, a drooping of the eyes, and a
quivering of the lips.
"indeed I trust so," said the mother anxiously; "and re-
member, my daughter, that as soon as they can spare you
from 'Mossy Creek' we will claim you at the 'Manor."'
"You are Very kind," said the little pale wife, in that
soft, sweet voice of hers,." and of course I expect to di-
vide my time with you, if I am well enough."
" But I will nurse you so-tenderly, and we will all try
and cure you if you will come to us. Will we not, Mr.
Troup?'?
"Indeed 'we will," added the father tenderly, for even
the Jove of money was not sufficient to overwhelm the
chivalry that was innate in his breast.
Virginia did not trust' herself to make a reply, for the
tears stood in her eyes; and to hide her confusion, Clifford
hurried to say:
"She'll be over soon, and ~as it is getting late, we will
say good-evening, not 'good-by,' for I will see you in the
morning, mother;" and after an affectionate leave-taking,
the carriage drove on.
What a sad burden it bore, we alone can realize who
have loved, who have suffered, who have been disappoint~
ed, and who 'have laid up treasures, but to see them
snatched away. Virginia sat over in one corner weeping
the tears which 'would not be forced back, and Clifford

sat in the other corner, silent and miserable. Silent, be-
cause he could not console; miserable, not so much for
himself as for the woman whose happiness he had
~vrecked. For his instinct told him she knew something
was wrong, although no hint ~f the fatal secret had ever
escaped her lips. And thus it was that the trusting child
who, a few short months before, had the paternal
roof a happy bride, now returned to it a crushed and
heart-broken wife. An occurrence not so rare as the
world imagines.
No more would life be the same to her; and like little
Christian martyr, she hoped to conceal the blow which
was killing her from her parents, knowing full well that
their hearts would bleed with hers, and their hopes le
buried in a common tombf The wife suffered scarcely
more than the husband thouo'h for an honorable xian
must feel it when he has betrayed the trust of so weak a
thing as a confiding woman; and so keen was the remorse
hi Clifford's heart,- that he would freely have given his
life if he had never taken the fatal step which bound him
to Virginia Dearing. Her sobs became more intense as
they neai~ed her childhood's happy home; and when driv-
ing through the park, which was illuminated with bon-
fires upon stands, Clifford folded her tenderly in his arms,
and said:
'"Virginia, for my sake, try and control yourself;" but
the words were unheeded, and it had been as easy to
force the tide back into the ocean ~as to check the flow
of those tears which refused to be sent lj~ack into their
briny bed.                         J
The carriage stopped, and a moment later the poor
homesick child was weeping upon her mother's breast,


206                ~XLLfl~G ~rxu~ r~im~n OAIiF.

'EILIJN(k THE FATTED GAIJ'.

whfle the father stood -pressing her thin little hand in
wondering silence. At first they thought it was the joy
of coming home, but suddenly the mother's heart -sus-
pected something else, and looking, at Clifford, she ~said
-anxiously:
"What is -the matter with my ~huld?"
"She is not well, mother, and I hope is only nervous
-from fatigue. Come, Virginia, let me take you into the
house, where you can lie down, and y~u will -soon feel
better;" and folding his arms around her, he would have
'tarried her, but turning to her father, she said:
"Let father take me."
Yes, my precious, father -will.;" then, taking her in
his arms, he lifted her into the house, and would have
taken her into the 8itting-~rocnn, only she said-:
"No, not here; take me to my own room, for I have
come home to die."
* "My darling, would you -break our hearts?" said the
father folding her more closely in his arms, as he carried her
tenderly up the stairs; then laying her on her snow-white
bed, he kissed her pale, emaciated cheeks time and again.
-shall father, forgive me, and mother, -don~t cry, for I
be. with you a little while yet;" but the mother
knelt by her side and wept as if her heart would break.
The old family servants too stood around crying; and as
Virginia recognized them, she became more composed,
* and said gently:
* "Why, there's Ohaney, and Luke, and Harriet, and
Sallie~..How 4o you all do?" and each one eame forward
and shook hands with "Miss Queen," as they called her.
Then looking around and ~seeming to miss ~&amp;ome one, she
-said:

r

a -

"Where's Mamnmy?"
"Here, oliho," and the old black woman, who had
nursed her from the very hour of her birth, now took her
in her arms and said:
"De good Lord be praised .for a-bringin' you back to
us, honey, and We'll neber let you go-away from us- agin,
poor chile!"
* At these words, Mis. Daring looked up, and as the
*     light fell full upon her daughters face, she was startled
to fine it so thin and pale. Then turning to Clifford,
who sat upon the foot of the bed, a silent -and wretched
spectator of this heart-rending -scene; she said rather
reproachfully:
"What have you -done to our pet?"
"Oh, mother, he has done nothing," said Virginia,
quickly. "I have been sick for some time;" another
stab for the husband.
"And why -did you not let us know it, my darling, so
that we could have brought you home?"
"Because, father, I kept hoping to get better, sand
besides, I did not like to leave -Olifford;" and as she
looked lovingly at her husband, -he pressed her hand and
kissed it.
"Well, that is the feeling a wife~shonld have," said the
motilei'; "but still we could have come to you, pet."
"So I am here at ;las~, it doesn't matter, does it,
Mamrny?" and she looked at her dear old nurse for - a
reply.
"No, chile, an' we got y~u here now, we keep yen, .~
honey," -a name by -which she -had always -addressed her
young mistress.
"Mistis, youse forgittin all 'bout supper, liaiu't yer,"
A1


'208'           XILLE4TG THfl BATTED CALF'.

209

suggested Chaney, the colored factotum, who walked
around the establishment with all the dignity with which
a huge bunch of keys dangling at her side inspired
her.
"You are quite right, Chaiiey; I had forgotten all about
it. YQW can't go down, pet ~"
"Xo~ no, mother. You all go; take Qlifford and leave
Maminy with me. I want to talk to her about the tirne~
I used to run away from her and make flutter mills down
in the branch in the grove."
"Just a&amp; you say, love, and I'll send you up some sup.
per, by Chaney~ Come Clifford, come father;" and in~
stantly Clifford slipped her hand through his arm and as-
sisted her down the stairs as carefully and as gracefully
as he always performed those little courtesies.
Closing the door, Mammy sat down by the little,
wretched wife, and while stroking her hair, said:
"Now, honey, tell iMlammy, what is de matter wid her
chile?"
"Some other 'time, Mammy. I'm too, tired and sick
now; but as I didn't wish father and mother to know it, I
tried to talk ai.A laugh as long as they were in the room.
Here now, let me put this pillow in your lap, and rest my
head upon it, as I used to do, while you run your fingers
through my hair."
"Yes, honey, do jes as ye like, and ol4 Mammy will
be happy;" and arranging the pillow as desii'ed, her
young mistress rested her aching, throbbing head upon
It.
"There now, that feels so good, for my poor head aches
to distraction."
"Neber mine-Mainmy '11 ~ub it and make it well.

4-

KILLING THE FATTED CALF'.

'1~

I
I

There now, try and go to sleep;" and for a little while a
- profound silence reigned in th&amp; room, for Virginia was
exhausted, both l)y mental and physical suffering, and
in addition to these, her heart was heavy with its own
bitterness.
Lying with closed eyes, she recalled the happy past,
when, with the usual blindness of youth, the joys of the
moment were ignored, and her heart went bounding forth
to the untried future.
Well , that future~came; there were but two periods in it
-happiness and misery, and now the brief career was
ended, and she seemed going down into that dark pit of an-
guish which overwhelms th~ soul when we have loved and~
*    lost.
There was no resurrection-day for her; and recognizing
*    the melancholy fact, she resigned herself to her hapless
fate, with that martyr-like spirit which utters no murmur
and is determined to bea~r its burden' unassisted. In the
nobility of her soul, and in the spirit of sacrifice which
gave her courage to endure, she thought it would be too
cruel to break a father's heart and crush a mother's life
because hers was blighted. Neither did she desire to add
one iota to the unhappiness of him who had caused her
ruin; for wretched as she was, she could but admire the
loyal devotion which made her husband immolate himself
for another, and in keeping her own lips sealed, she was
but imitating his noble example.
The feast which was brought to her room by three ser-
vants, and which was served upon three respective large-
sized silver waiters, was called by the unpretending name
of "tea;" and as Chancy recommended eaj~i separate


210          KILLING TEE FATTED CALF.

dish, "Miss Queen" regretted, more than words could
tell, her inability to eat a single morsel.
Only drinking a cup of tea, she strove to soothe Cha.
ney's disappointment by saying:
"Never mind, Chaney, I'll be better to-morrow, and
then I can eat ~some of all these delicious things which
you have so kindly prepared for me."
"Lor', chile, II hopes so-~-kase wese bein a cooking'
and a cleaning' and a fiXin' here for de last free weeks, jis
for yer comm' and Mars Cliffort's."
"Well, don't let 'Mars Cliffort' eat up everything from
me, for I shoAl be better by and by, and then I shall waiit
some of this nice fruit-cake."
"Lor' sakes, chile, Mar~ Oliffort didn't touch no sup-
:per neither. Neber seed sich folks. What be de mat-
ter?"
"Well, Ohaney, I am sick, and Clifford ~is tired, I sus-
pect. We'll eat to-morrow"
"I hopes so; for its jes frowin' away de raw material to
cook for ye all;" and with these words she took her wait-
ers down as she brought them up.
"Now, honey, let 'Mammy' take all dese close off, and
make ye comfcirtable."
"As you say, Mammy;" and yielding to the suggestioji
of her life-long nurse, she soon found herself vastly more
at ease in a white wrapper than she was in her travelling
suit.
Supper over, the gentlemen walked out upon the gallery
for a smoke, while the mother sought the chamber of her
daughter.
IJutil far into the night did she and Mammy watch
their precious charge; then, at Virginia's request, they left

I

I

KILLING TIlE FATTED CALF.        211
her to try an~d seek repose in sleep. But the night passed
away in sigl~s and speechless agony for both wife and
husband, and when the light of another~ day broke upon
the world, they seemed asleep; but were still awake.


212                  I~EVER!

21~

ChAPTER XXXII.
SEVER!

OON after breakfast, t~ie next morning, Clifford
galloped over to the "iMianQr."
The air was bracing, the forests gorgeous, the
season beautiful; but he neither felt the one, nor saw the
other, for the cause of his wife's depression and illness
had dawned upon him suddenly; and by that intuition
which sometimes gives us an insight where wQrds and
actions would leave us groping in the dark, he now knew
why her young life ~as going down to the tomb in its
youth and freshness.
Surely, the taking of an innocent life was sufficient,
we think, to blind the eyes of even the most hardened;
therefore, it does not seem strange that the beauties of
Nature were all ignored on time morning in question.
True, the life that was ebbing gradually away was not
threatened by either ball or steel, but sometimes these
would be merciful to the wife who finds lrome-.a desert,
and liusband-a stranger.
It had been a wretched night for both wife and hus-
band, and although neither slept, they exchanged no
word. Clifford's sleeplessness betrayed itself in eyes
which were red and swollen. his cheeks, too, were
flushed as the result of the panacea taken to "make him
feel better," and the unmistakable odor upon his breath

I

U

NEVER!

made his mother's heart beat with anxiety as she kissed
him "good-morning," and said:
"how is Virginia?"
"Not well; the return home was too exciting for her,
and she has slept none."
"Poor child! I am sorry to hear it. And you, Clif-
ford, you are not well either."
"Nor never will be again, mother;" came in sad tones
from lips that had to be compressed to hide their quiver~
mo'
"Don't talk fhat way, Clifford;" and ~ pained e~pres-
sion rested up~n the mother's delicately cut features
"You would have me tell the truth, mother?"
~~Yes, my boy; but what is the matter?"
Do you not know?" he asked, sadly. "Does not
your mother's sympathy, added to your woman's instinct,
tell you when your children are unhappy?"
"Yes, my son, but it does not tell me the cause of
that unhappiness. Come into my room, where we will
be free from intrusion, and tell me all;" and taking his
hand, she led him along with her, as in the olden time.
Entering her chamber, she locked the door, and Clifford
threw himself, with a sigh, upon a lounge, after the boy-
ish custom of days that were gone. Sitting down by him,
his mother stroked his hair, and said:
"Now, my precious boy, tell me what is the matter?"
"I am wretched-utterly wretched!"
"What makes you so unhappy?"
lie hesitated some time, as if dreading to speak the
words which faltered upon his lips. Then half-raising
himself up, and resting upon his elbow, he looked his
mother hi the face, and said solemnly:

I


2141

£ "She i&amp; dy!" 'tha~i sank baek upon the lounge
with a groan, and covered his. face with his hands.
"Oh, Clifford!" came from the mother's lips, and
bowing her head upon.~his bosom, she wept.
Both were too wretched to talk, for their consciences
were still fresh. and ~piire~ and they realized, in all its her..
ror, wbat it was to sacrifice the happiness, and perhaps
the life, of a human being. Some time passed by, and
then putting his arm around his mother's neck, and draw-
ing her to him, Clifford said;
"And mother, he who has caused all this misery will
suffer. for it before he dies?'
"Oh, my son, do not make any threats against your-2'
"I make no threats,." sa~id. Olifford arising; "but when
a man utterly. disregards the feelings of his fellow-creat.
ures, it. will be brought hack to him, sooner or later"
"Bat your wife, you hava not. mistreated her? uch
a thing would be impossible for my 8Ofl.~
"I have not dealt~ her blows, but I have broken her
heart, I have never sought her except from ditty and
respect, and py lips have never framed themselves to call.
her by. any dearer name than .' Virginia;' and do you
think she does not know, she does not feel insti~etively.
that soiiiethingis wrong?
"I would have neglected her shamefully,~had I yielded
to my feelings, and had not the chivalric, blood of the
Troops and the Bakers forced. me tQ .a different courses
"But what are the IuQSV assiduous attentions worth to
any ~ unless, they. are prompted by l~ve?"
The ioor heart-broken mother had no time to reply,
for a~ rap at .tha doors ended the interview, and entering,
Mr. Clifford Troup, Sr.,. said:

I

'I

"Goo4.morning, Clifford! I come t~ offer my congratm'
nations, which I neglected to present in our hasty meet-
mo' last evening."
*     "I thank you~, sir, arid though I prize worldly honors
but little, yet your congratulations are~gratifyiug."
*     "What's this 'I hear about not pricing worldly honors?
Such sentiments are unworthy ~of a Troup 1"
~' But for the distinguished name I bear, sir, I should
have been utterly indifferent as to the result of my elee-
tion;" and the father winced as he comprehended some-
thing must be wrong. Then, with an attempt at pleas-
antry, the honorable father said, with a forced smile, and
looking at the mother:
"Why what has come over ~tlie boy?" Then turning
to his son, he added: "A year ago you were buoyant and
ambitious, now I find you depressed and indifferent."
"True! because, a year ago, I was an honorable man;
now, II am a betrayer, a perjurer, and, perhaps, a mur~
dever."
Liquor, as is known, has a different effect upon different
temperaments, and while it makes some men silent, it
makes others communicative. It ha&amp; the latter effect
upon Clifford, ai~d made him expose those things~ which
in sober moments he would have held as too sacred to be
spoken of at all. This must be the apology to the reader,
for what may sometimes seem weak 'in a man, and better
left unsaid. The mother sat weeping, and the father stx4
regarding his son with scorn.
lIe was rather surprised to hear him speak as he did,.
for he had flattered himself that ki~ son's feelings could
be crushed out or bought at will, as his own could be.
lie was not so much astonished to hear it iiitinvated

NEVER!                 215


f

NEVER!I

that the wife felt betrayed, as he was to find his son af
fected by such a trifling (?) thing as the heart-sickness
of a woman, lie had fancied him strong enough and
stern enough to resist snob an unimportant influence, and
when he saw him absolutely yielding to it, he felt a kind
of contempt for him. lie forgot for the moment how
tenderly he had loved that boy's mother, not only for 'a
year but for years after their marriage, and never had
that love been supplanted until avarice entered his heart
like a festering wound and poisoned his whole being.
But while he stood in sneering silence, Clifford crossed
the room, sat down by his mother, ~nd putting his arm
around her, said:
Li
"Forgive me, dear mother if I have given you pain;
but the confidence you have always allowed me, and your
entire sympathy in all my feelings, naturally made me
seek you when I was in trouble; and now that I am a
man, I suppose I must forget my boyish ways, and rely
upon myself instead of finding relief by pouring my sor-
rows into your ear..
"No, my boy, always come to me, tell me everything
that troubles you, and if I cannot save you from suffering,
I can at least give you my sympathy;" and pressing her
lips to his fine brow, she kissed him, as a pledge of her
earnestness.
." Dear mother" was all he could say, and for a few
minutes they sat looking down and thinking; then arising
suddenly, and as if lie had forgotten something, Clifford
said:
"I must be going, for Virginia may miss me,. and as I
can only stay a day or two, I must be with her as much
as possible."

NEygR I

21?

"Only a day or tWo?"
"Yes; you know the Legislature meets next week.
But you'll be over to-day?"
" Yes! "
"Oh, I forgot to say that Mrs. Dearing requests father
and yourself to dine at 'Mdssy Creek' to-day."
"Your mother can do as she likes, but I cannot leave
home to-day;" and with these words the honorable father
stalked grandly out of the room.
"Well, I will see about it after I get there, Clifford, and
if Virginia is well enough, perhaps&amp; I will remain. My
thanks to Mrs. iL~earino'"
"All right; good-by;" and kissing her tear-stained
face, he walked quickly from tl~e house, and, springing to
his saddle, galloped rapidly dQwn the broad, ~'indingave-
nue. - Much-to his surprise, he countered his father at~
the lodge gate, and not feeling in a humor to talk, he
would have bowed and passed on, but was arrested by
this request:
"A word with you, Clifford."
"Certainly,, sir," said the son, lifting hi~ hate
"I hate to apply to you again, but II am terribly in~ need
of a few thousands, and if you could help me just this
once, I will never trouble you again"
What an abject appeal, and what abject things ~iioney
will drive men to do; things which they would die rather
than do from any other cause!
"I regret that I cannot oblige you, sir, but upon my
honor, it is impossible!" answered the son, respectfully
but sternly.
"Could not your wife get iL for you?"

10

216 ,

I


I

218                                                                          A CHARMING PUPIL.

"I dare say she could and would, but never again will
I ask her to do it."
"Think, Clifford, it is your father who comes to you in
his old age for assistance;" and resting one hand upon the
pommel of the saddle, he looked the picture of despaii~
Clifford's heart was touched, iiotwithstanding that father
bad caused him so much suffering, but his resolution ~vas
taken, and no power on earth could aite~ that resolve, so
he said in a very determined tone:
"Did I have the money, father, you should not wait to
ask me for it, but to take another man's money and give
him nothing in exchange for it but faithlessness to his
child, is impossible! II cannot do it; do not ask it. What
I make myself shall be yours, but more than this I can-
not promise;" and lifting his hat, he bowed "good-
morning," and galloped rapidly away, while .his father
stood looking after him with an angry and disappointed
scowl upon his handsome and striking face. And here
we see, step by step, how surely and inevitably a man will
go down the ladder of moral degradation, who ignores the
laws of Nature, and sets at defiance the laws of God.

219

CHAPTER XXXIII.
A CHARMING PUPIL.
F course, the rest of the world were in~rnotion ~
during these sad scenes at the "Manor" and
"Mossy Creek," and while they were being en-
acted, our old friends from "Pleasant I~etreat ".were es
tablishing themselves in a very handsome house in the
gay capital.
The novelty of everything soon wore off for Gertrude,
and instead of resigning herself entirely to 1~he demands
of fashionable life, her uncle si~iggested ~she should
study music and French, which she did.
Her beauty and freshness elicited admiration wher~
ever she appeared, and she was acknowledged by the
critics to ~be "the belle of the season."
This was a distinguished preferment, for it seemed as
if the jxtrterres of the world had furnished their most
beautiful- flowers that winter to blossom in the gay bou-
quet which lent its varied hues to make the capital more
brilliant4han ever before. The Senator's~position at once
introduced his niece into the best society, and the petit
diiers and brilliant coteries which followed each other in
quick succession at his own house, and over which she
presided with so much ease and grace, were talked of as
among the most delightful r~uniow~ of the seasoix This
attrition of mind with mind naturally expanded Ger-
trude's quick intelle6t, and a judicious. course of rea4'',

4

A

218


220             A CHARMING PUPIL.                                                  A CIIA1~MtNG PUPIL.         221

ing, united with congenial exchange of thought, was fitting
her to be the companion of savant8 and 1Ut~rateurs.
11cr uncle's pride in her was unbounded, and no won-
der, for she was beautiful, accomplished, gifted and
brilliant, admired and sought; and he yet hoped to see
her married to some man whom she loved, and who
would appreciate her in return. To this end he watched
her when she did not suspect him; for this cause, he was
pained at the indifference she manifested towards all her
visitors~ however, there was one whose society she
seemed to prefer to the others, and as a natural conse-
quenee the uncle gave no encouragement to the attentions.
of the fortunate individual, for when, since the world
began, were ever uncle and niece, or father and daughter
en rapport regarding a suitor? True, the young man
was a French Count, an attacked of the French L~gation,
and some papas and 'some mammals would have died in the
attempt to secure such a prize.
But the lion. Reuben Hall was not only antagonistic
to the nobility by birth, but from principle, considering
an American Rudolph worth all the kings and emperors
of Europe. This he not only felt but acted, giving the
preference at all times to his young countrymen who were
striving by their 6ww'exertions to raise themselves to some
elevated position. Of course, he was always polite to
foreigners, and extended to them the hospitalities of his
house, but he had no ambition to marry his niece to any
one but. a deserving countryman~ thinking the highest
honor an American woman could enjoy was to be the wife
ef a true Axie~ie~m..
When Gertrude told him that Count IYAuvergne had
kindly offered to assist her wit~h her French by conversing

with her an hour each day, he was silent ai~d rather ap~
prehensile, while his usual infallibilIty on the subject of
human nature suggested how speedily the les~ns 'might
arrive at that stage when the verb (timer 15 brought into
considerable use. If it was only to conjugate and leave
it alone, well and good; but who coukd foretell what the
state of the heart might be while ~this lip~service w~s
going on? For has not Owen Meredith fully compre~
headed ~he coquetterie of this graceful tongue when lie
says:
"But the language of languages dearest to me
Is that in which once, 0 m~ toute ck&amp;ie,
When, together we bent o'er your nosegay for hours,
You explained what was silently said by the flowers,
And, selecting the sweetest of all, sent a flame
Through my heart, as, in laughing, you murmuredje t'azme.".
Yes, that was it-two heads bending together over
the same book-inhaling the same odor from the same
nosegay, which gallantry brought each day to the queen
of love and beauty; ~ lok~
~xe~ 0~~b into eyes, a pair of inns-
tached lips trying to teach a pretty pair of unencumbered
lips how to roll the r's, and how not to pronounce the W8,.
etc., etc.; a mel'ry laugh at the failure---~a beginning over
again. Why, don't you kwow how it is? Why, it is the
most fascinating, all-overish feeling in the world; and, so
thought the Count, when he said one morning, in the
midst of their lesson:
"Vows e~tes une ckarrn1ante deoli 'e I"
" Vou~ me flatt ezI"
"lVor&amp;, nom, &amp;e~t vrai! Vou8' parlez. tr~ 1~ie~ ~t
votreprownoiatiofl~ ~t trAs 6Qrkn~e!"


A CHARMING PUPIL.            223

222               A Oi14RMt~G PUPIL.

"Speak in English, now, for the lesson is ended; and
such close application may (?) end in~ softening of the
brain, or something worse (?);" said G9rtrude, laughing.
"Have no fears, mademoiselle; fork I think it would
take sorncthing more difficult to soften ~eit1mer your brain,
or-your heart ; '~ arid he stole a glarnie at her beaniing
ace.
"Who said anything about hearts ? '?~ she said, going to
the window to look out at the gay promenadess who
thronged, the avenue.
"I," answered tIme Count, at her e~r, and while she
looked out, he found sufficient occupation in studying, for
th~ millionth time, her beautiful pm ~lile, until his pro-
longed gaze brought a blush to her dtiee1~s, and turning,
she said:
"We've had no music this morning.!"
"Pm at your service," with a graceful bow.
"Come, then, we'll try that exquisite duet of Men~
delssoJ'mn's, 'iii would that my love;"' and leading the 'way
to the' piano, she played the prelude; and they began:
he, in a delicious tenor, she, in a rich, pure sopraio,
which would have made her a Divc~ before' the footlights.
And 50 they loved music?
Another attraction, another bond of sympathy; for a
handsome man , who sings is 'to all women-even those
who do not love the immortal art-4he most fascinating
creature in tIme world.
Let fathers and umicles and inammas be correspondingly
warned.
~The duet concluded, the Count leaned gracefully on
the piamio, and never looked so handsome iii his life, ~as
when he ~aid, in accents soft amid tender:

"Now sing me just one little song."
Didn't we say lie was handsome before ~ If we didn't,
we meant to; and another thing we ~wanted to say was
that he was of Italian descent on the maternal side;,
hence his love of music, and his soft, dreamy, black eyes
and poetic nature.
No, lie was not one of your. volatile Frenchmen, for
had he been, Gertrude would never have been attracted
to him. On the contrary, he had a depth of feeling,
which, as yet, no plummet-line had sounded; 1)ut that the
far-off chords had been struck latterly seemed beyond a
doubt; and if they hadn't been, that they Tould be,
seemed quite inevitable, just now. Looking dyer son~e
music, and humming a sweet little air, as if t&amp; herself,
Gertrude looked up finally, and said:
"What shall I sino' 2"
"Your selection will make me happy," was the gallant
rejoinder..
"Ab, Count, you do say such sweet things!"
With such inspiration, how can I help it?"
Thanks expressed in a glance from a pair of glorious
eyes, then a piece of music spread upon the rack by ta..
peering fingers which were pink as roses.
What is it? "Pen~ez d rnoi I"
These words on the, title-page:
"Aved 1e8 regards de Uount D'Auvergn~e."
A prelude, of course, then in a soft, low voice she sahg,
while aii occasional glance at him whb sighed and turned
the leaves, made him feel "Oh, delicious it is!"
And we should rather say it was! Look at the pict~
nrc! A beautiful woman, a. love-song, dainty wl~ite
fingers pressing the i vt~ries; oh, so lovingly; broken Freiwli


2~L              A UIIARI~flNG PUPIL.                                                 A ChARMING rtu'u.             225

bewitchingly snng by ruby lips; glances between times-
flQt laid down by the composer-along with "andante,"
".~otto voce,"" av~ regret," and the other cabalistic signs
only understood by musicians; the odor of flowers, canary
birds warbling, sunlight peeping in at the rose-buds on
the carpet, and lastly, but riot lastly, a very handsome
and di8tingud man, who evidently was becoming more
deeply hifatuated each moment.
Where was it all to end?
Did any one ever stop in just such a delirium of ecstasy
to ask any question-but one?
The moment was propitious-it was going-would it
ever come again? Gertrude was just a little bit coquet-
ti~h, but she didn't mean to he. What woman ever did?
Her heart was safe, and the Count's ought to be! At
least she had never given him any encouragement. Oh,
no. What woman ever did acknowledge that she ever
did do anything except spmethiug that wouldn't tarnish
the reputation of a s~idnt?
The song was ended.
Sileklce by two. Her fingers still pressed the last
chord; its melody filled the room; a moment more, and
her eyes sought those of her visitor; his face was flusl~ed,
his eyes 'full of a new light which startled the' lair givl:
he trembled-the love was in his heart-the words were
on his lips.
Oh, moment of ecstasy! 11
Delirium of love ! !!
Dream of heaven!!!
Linger! ! I Thou canst not depart!
One~Ltwo-three----fourlive - six- seven - eight-
uine-teu-elevefl----

"Twelve o'clock! We'll be too late for uncle's speech
unless we hurry! P11 be back in a minute, as 80011 as IL
get my bonnet. 'J~cu8ez mci,"' and the beautiful vision
had gone-so had the opportunity, and a moment after-
wards, the Count was muttering under his breath:
"&amp;tcre 6ieu! Stupid, hate," etc., etc.
His soliloquy w~s short, if damning; for at last Ger-
trude had learned the value of min~ites, and no matter
how much she wished to linger at her mirror, exchanging
admiring glances with herself, she returned in an incred-
ibly short time.
"Are you ready?"
"S'il vous ylc4t?" and there was a glove to fasten--
another trying situation for a man in love. Then a
parasol and a lace handkerchief and a veil to hold.
Oh 'these women, how deliciously tormenting they can
be!
"Allous!" and she led the way.
"Avec ylaisii'!"
Silence down the ball; silence in the vestibule;
lence past the door. They linger a inoment-he takes
her hand and presses it just a little 1~it, in assisting her
down the steps. Then out into the streets, undem~ the
glorious sunlight they join the gay throng who are pomwing
in a living stream to the Capitol, and of course, became
very proper.
Kissing the tips of our fingers to them, we say au
revoir!
10"


' I~T

226

THlE RIVALS.

CHAPTER XXXIV.
THE RIVALS.
lIE few sweet autumn days when Clifford lin-
gered so tenderly by her side, and read to her
from her favorite authors, were now but a mem-
ory, but treasured, oh, so fondly I Yes, treasured, for in
those~ days she almost believed he loved her; lie was so
kind; sothoughtfiil, so considerate, and Heaven help him
for ever being anything else. It always was against his
nature to be so, but love is stronger than chivalry, and
while the latter can be forced, the former never can be,
no matter how reason~ and judgment, and society may
shape the conduct.
What a little thing it is to be kind-to speak a gen-
tIe word; to give a look of sympathy! and yet, how often
are they withheld, even though we know how much hap-
piness they yield to others. None of us are, too poor to
cast these blessings upon the pathway of -onir fellow-
creatures, and instead of scowling and freezing all the
kindliness out of our hearts,. let our smiles and cheery
words be scattered broadcast, as well upon those who
xieed them, as upon those who seem to need them not,
~or Qftener than we dream, a laughing face may hide a
bleeding heart.
Yes; the happy days were' gone forever, and the young
wife buried her grief so deep within her breast, that not
even the searching eyes of her doting parents could dis.

TUE RIVALS~

227

cover the disease that was gnawing at her heartstrings,
and stopping the very fountains of her youth. Sh~ came
~otter~ng down staji's with Mamrny's assistance, and b&amp;
cause she was cheerful, they deemed her happy; because
they were hopeful, they considered. her out of danger~
The idea of surrendering their only treasure to the grim
monster wa~ never thought of, and indeed, who ever
thinks of this painful subject, but to banish it?
So can even the eyes of love be deceived, by one who
has the moral courage and the heroism to be~r 9ie~ cross
alone, by one who loves others more than self, and whose
chief desire is to save those dear ones pain.
Except an occasional visit from the Troups and some
other neighbors, the trio at "Mossy Creek" we~e rarely
invaded, and one day was so much like another, that but
for Mr. iDearing's diary~ they could never have been told
apart. Vii~ginia beguiled the tedium by embroidering a
pair of slippers for a Christmas present for her husband,
and could the tiny leaves and flowers which grew into
life under her little pale fingersliave spoke, they wQuld
have told a sad tale of bright hopes that had been woVen
in their creation, and perhaps of a tear which had been
dropped now and then, as these fond hoped were doomed
to perish.
Letters came regularly from the absent one, to cheer
and comfort the little wife, with such comfort as it was;
and through the papers she saw with pride that "Clifford
Troup, Jr., was winning honors for himself and name, as
he was considered beyond doubt the most brilE~nt de-
bater in the House."
Relieved ifrom the restraints of a home in which lie was
not happy, and with the habit which seemed growing


228

TIlE RiVALS.

upon him, it was but natural to fear that Clifford would
go into excesses. So far, nothing of the kind had oc-
curred, for the relief of being alone-the necessity of not
having to live a daily falsehood in the presence of an-
other-helped him to bear what he could not conquer,
instead of driving him to seek oblivion in the~poisoiiouS
draught which kills both body and soul.
Thus two mouths passed quickly away, and the sage
legislators looked forward with delight, as they thought
of the 1~olidays which were to be passed with the loved
ones at home.
Clifford, we regret to say, was an exception to this
almost general rule, for although he tried to. imagine
himself happy at the idea of returning to his wife, yet
with the same feQling was singled one ot repugnance;
and at that moment lie might have put the continent
between himself and her whom he. had sworii to love,
cherish, and keep, had not honor stepped between, and
kept him somewhere within the bounds of duty.
If there is a husband whose eyes shall light upon this
page, who suffers this feeling of revolt upon repairing to
his home, we say to lThn: "You have outraged the holy
law of matrimony; for you have married from some
other motive than that of love."
Poor Virginia!" Wretched Clifford!~~
The one deceived; the other deceiving ! Which wa~
worse?
Suffering for one; suffering and crime for the other.
Two lives ruined! But what is a human life?
A fearful gift from God,, or an insignificant b'~on
which men barter for gold, and sell to the devil for
worldly preferment?

7

T

THE 1RLS.

229

"Who appreciates that it is the former? How many
consider it only the latter!
While we have been reflecting, an unbroken stream of
pleasure-seekers have been pouring in the direction of the
Executive Mansion, which is beautifully illuminated, and
thrown open for the last levee before the holidays. The
gathering was large and brilliant; for Georgi~ then
was represented by all that was best and noblest within
her varied borders; and no one could have min&amp;led in
the gay throng, or received the courtesies .of th Chief
Magistrate and his wife, without feeling proud ~o own
himself a citizen of the Empire State of the Soutl4
It was long before the days of scalawags and ~arpet-
baggers and thieving governors, in a time wheA men
were honest, and when they loved principle moi~e than
money-if, indeed, the imagination has the power to
drift back to such an ancient date. Could the festivities
have ended here, it had been .well;. for then s~me of.
Georgia's noblest sons would have returned t&amp; their
homes and constituents, at least as they came, and with-
out the blemish upon their reputations which from that
night would rest upon them forev~r. But there was to be
a banquet at the Hotel, complimentary to th~ mem-
bers of the legislature, and, judging from the has,~e with
which the gentlemen escorted the ladies home, "a jolly
good time" was in anticipation. Of course,"a jolly time,"
for it was to be one of those entertainments from which
ladies are excluded-" no restraints, you know "~--which
means, "~I can drink just as much as I please," "and say
just what I please, and no one~will be any the wiser."
Granted! No one will be any the ~viser (?), but is there
no mother, wife, sister, or daughter, to suffer by the degra-.


230           TlE RIVALS.

TIlE RIVALS.             23t

nation of such conduct? No loving hearts to be l)ruised
by such blows?
Anathemas loud and deep, say we, upon those ca-
rousals, more politely called banquets or suppers; xvliere
men congregate without the restraining influence of
women, and the odium of the public be upon those who
give and encourage such entertainments; for we all know
they are not given either for the purpose of benefiting
or elevating mankind, but are, as a general thing, used as
advertisements for some hotel proprietor, 01' to farther
the interests of some clique or corp()ratW~n.
*      Cheap wines and medicated liquors are the tempting
beverages on such grand occasions; everybody is expected
*   to get drunk, as a compliment to the host, and the man
who fails to come up to the mark, in this particular, is set
down either as unmanly, stupid, or "henpecked."
Henpecked! a term of reproach that is applied to a
man who respects his wife too much to make a brute of
himself. Judging from the noise, the entertainment was
at its height, and to call it Bedlam would be giving only
a faint idea of the boisterous scene.
Imagine five long tables the length of the immense
dining-room, at which were seated as many hundred men,
all talking, speaking, and clattering knives and forks at
one time, and some conception of tho picture xiiay be had.
At first, the toasts caine in regular order, one at a time,
but as the men grew heated with wine and excited under
the other influences surrounding them, as many as twentl
or thirty occupied the floor at once.
These together with the cheers of the listeners, who al-
ternately cried: "Down with the Senator from C
or "Mr. T---, the Representative from B-, li~s the

floor;" or " Go it, Mr. D-," "We'll hear you thi'ough,
Mr. S-.----," reminded ~ne of the lower regions, where, it
is said, the demons occasionally revolt against the demands
of his Satanic Majesty.
And so the uproar and the drinking and the speaking
and the talking increased, until the heat of the room be~
came stifling, and there was a general stampede for the
open air. Railroads being scarce in those days, many of
the members of the General Assembiy had to reach their
homes either by staging ox' private carriages, and as it
was broad daylight when the banqueters left the ball of
feasting, their conveyances were awaiting them. Amongst
the crowd of vehicles was a handsome top-buggy, with a
pair of spirited sorrel ponies attached to it, and evidently
it was all the driver could do to keep them in check, for
they pawed the earth, and in their impatience were eager
to be off.
"Aix, Jake, I was just looking for you;" and springing
into the buggy, the speaker waved "good-by" to some
friends who were with him, and giving the reins to his
ponies, was off at lightning speed.
"By Jove, if he drives that way, he'll break his neck!"
said one of the men, looking after him.
"Jake will take care of him, I hope.~~
"What a pity, what a piby, he will drink so, for he is
by far the most brilliant young fellow in' the State."
"Better say what a pity he has such a fiend for a father,
for it is he who has ruined the son."
"Oh, you've heard the story!',
"A love-affair, 'wasn't it?"
"Yes; loved one WOman and married another."

230

. 231


~282               'TIlE RIVAL.                                                     TIlE RIVALS.              233

"But he will not throw himself away for that."
"That's just what he's doing; but IL must seek some rest,
and you?"
"Will follow your example."
"Meet me at twelve at the Capitol, in regard to that
matter we were discussing last night."
"1 will ;" and they parted.
While they were talking, the subject of their remarks
was giving not only the reins but the whip to horses
which were regarded as the fastest in the country, and
seeing how~ excited his master was, Jake said:
* "Mars Clifford, better let me hab dem reins;" but the
* proposition was answered with an oath, something very
unusual for the elegant and polished Clifford, Jr., and
Jako, the faithful, lapsed into trembling silence.
Excited by the run, and maddened by the lash which
had been dealt mercilessly, thQ horses at length became
unmanageable, and as Clifford endeavored to check them
by the bits, they reared and plunged, then darting off like
lightning, ran against a tree which stood at an angle in
the road. The shock smashed a fore..wheel, and then
Clifford was dragged. over their heads, and for some dis-
tance, before rekasing his hold upon the reins. Jake,
in his fright, sprang from the buggy, whi~oh resulted in a
broken leg and fractured skull; and together master and
servant lay upon the high road, bleeding and insensible,
while the maddened horses rushed on to their destruction.
The road was not very, much frequented, but surely ~they
will not be left alone to die. Even if the accident 'were
the result of recklessness, and an utter disregard of life,
God is always merciful, and surely He will send some
good Samaritan that way to bind up the wounds of the

wounded. Hark! there's a sound of wheels~ and another
traveller approaches the scene of the terrible disaster.
Lost in thought, though, he did not see the bleeding man
until ,with his feet almost upon the body, the horse gave
a snort and halted. Springing from his buggy, the stran~
ger approached what appeared to be a dead mars, and
turning him over, was shocked to find that it was his o4d
rival, Clifford Troup. What a strange and fearful meet-
ing; and as Paul Maxwell supported the head of the life~-
less man, he thought to himself, "What is to be done ?"
And indeed it was a question of importance, for' he
was alone, and at least six or seven miles irom the
nearest house or physician. To leave him to go for aid,
was a revolting idea, although Paul could ~ no good of
staying, and to move him might prove fatal. Then what
was to be done? And as he bent above the still lifeless
man,. and felt for a throb in the temples, he thought
again: "What a strange meeting 1" Paralyzed by the
unexpected shook, he sat holding poor Ojifford, and think-
ing only "How strange !" After what seemed an age,
'another traveller drove up, and after much consultation
it was agreed that he should return to M-. and bring
.a physician and a litter, so that the wounded man might
be removed with as much comfort as possible to where
he could receive the necessary attention. It was a long
time to wait, but Paul was tnore than willing to do what-
ever lay in his power for a sullering brother, what though
lie did it with strange feelings in his heart. True, Olif-
ford Troup had never harmed him-iudeed they were
strangers to each other; but then they both loved the
same woman, and that is an offence not easily. forgiven
one man by another.

282

THE RIVALS.

233


234

THLE RIVALS.

Strange, isn't it, that this thing of h~ve has such a pow-
erful influence over us all? People may laugh, they may
sneer, they may try to dismiss the subject as unworthy of
their thoughts, but those who laugh the loudest are gen-
erally those who cannot for life or death get out of its
troublesome coils. Those two hours of watching were
weary enough, and in after years Paul remembered them
as the dreariest hours of his life. But he held his lifeless
burden as tenderly as though he had been a brother, in-
stead of a rival; and he bathed his temples ~as gently as
if they both didn't love the same woman. And then he
thought he would like for him to be saved-he would
like for him to live.
For what? To be loved by her, and to love her?
Then a shudder came over him and he thought-well-
he thought- But it is too wicked; we cannot write
it. At any rate he thought something that was very, very
wicked, would be very nice. No, no, surely he didn't!
But then doii't forget that men are men, and not saints.
Did you never wish a rival out, of the way? Once only
did he open his eyes, and this was after Paid brought
some water from the spring near by, and bathed his tem-
ples. But it was a look of unconsciousness, a stare only;
and then, with a moan, he sank back, while the blood
flowed afresh from his arm and temple. A little far-
ther ou poor Jake lay ii)Seflsible also, and not until
Paul was going to the spring had he discovered him.
After ages of watching and wicked thoughts, the messeii-
ger returned with several other gentlemen, a physician,
and a litter, and sadly they bore their senseless burdens
hack to the capital, which they had left only a few hours
before so recklessly.

A BEAUTIFUL IOE~~Ra~.         23~
OIIAPTER XXXV.
A BEAUTIFUL ICEBERG.
- HAVE always heard that the Southerners were
such warm-hearted people," said a low, soft
voice, with quite a foreign accent.
"We are," was the quick reply; and a pair of beaming
eyes looked defiantly into a pair of black eyes which were
gazing fondly at her, while her attitude and air rather
invited further defence of her country and people.
"You must be an exception to the rule," then came
deliberately.
"I?" in unaffected surprise.
"Yes, you; for you are only a beautiful iceberg-a
snowflake, in dress and heart. And see, your hair is
golden-that is not Southern! Surely, your ancestors
must have drifted dowii from the North Pole-you must
be a Saxon-a Selavon ian-an stray !"
"Count D'Auvergne! '~ said the fair listener, springing
to hei feet while all tlie hot, Southern blood in her veins
rushed into her face. "1 am Southern to the core, and
you shall find Southern blood quick and ready to avenge
your words. Escort me to my uncle;" and sweeping out
from behind the folds of curtains which draped a bow.
window wli~re they sal~, she stood before him in all the
rage and imperiousness of an insulted queen.
"Pctrdonnd a thousand pardons, mademoiselle! I
did but jest. I adore y6ii, and your coldness piqued me.
*

9


23~             A BEAUTIFUL ICEBERG.                                         A BEAUTIFUL TOEBEUG.

I am on fire while you are ice. I am a madman. Ii know
not what II say. Kill me, but love me!" and in the hi.
tensity of his passion he seized her hand, and would have
draWn her back into the embrasure, but that she resisted
the movement, saying:
"I think a lady's private parlor would be a more ap-
propriate place for love-making than a ball-room."
"But we are not in' the ball-room. You are mistaken.
See! we are alone, and I directed our steps here pur-
posely."
Looking around, Gertrude saw that the beautiful 861o~
was deserted, for the guests had all gone into supper.
"Purposely I '~ she said, turning her glorious eyes upon
her suitor, with. an expression of displeasure.
"Yes; because I felt that I must iell you to-night how
much I love you. Bu1~ you turn away-you sigh-~--you
are cold and indifferent."
"Since we are alone, I will sit down for a moment,
and tell you in a few words how much I regret this
affair." And resuming her seat on the divan, she con~
tinned with dignity blended with regret:
"What you call indifference has been a desire on my
part to save us both this issue."
"If ~oii ~JreadeLd the issue, why did you encourage xn~
"There is where you do me injustice. That I have en-
joyed your society, I cannot deny; but I can also affirm
that I n~vor dreamed of anything beyond a friendship."
"A friendship!" said the Oomit in surprise. "Why,
~you have received my attentions to the exclusion of
almost every other admirer."
"True; because you were the only one who gave me

any' particular pleasure. You loved music, we read
French together, you were congenial, and if I have been
selfish, forgive ~
"Selfish? you have been cruel;" and with a~moan he
btu'ied his face in his hands, as if to hid&amp; the terrible
awakening.
"But think, Count. You are a nobleman, while I am
only an American girl."
"That makes no difference, for I have distinctly
avowed my purpose of marrying for love, not rank" was
the manly and earnest reply.
"But should I be acceptable to you, I might not be to
your family."
"Fortunately II do not belong to my family, nor am I
responsible to any one but myself for what I do. If you
love me, nothing but the strong arm of death can keep us
apart. If-you-~--.do-----not----love-me," how slowly and
tremblingly the words camel from his lips:' "tell me; do
not be afraid, bat tell me, and let me go."
Gertrude's head drooped lower upon the hand which
supported it, and a deep sigh told more plahily than words
how keenly she ~'ealized~'the painful duty of rejecting a
love which oonl:d not be doubted. An unpleasant task
always, for the few womei~i whG appreciate that the offer
of the honest love of a sincf~re man is the highest corn-
pii:ment that can be paid them. But minutes seemed like
ages to the impatient lover, and when she did not reply,
he said, ~in a trembling whisper:
"You do not love me."
A breathless suspense, and "No," fell like &amp; death'
knell upon the silence.


238             A DEAUTIFETL ICEBERG.                                     A. BEAUTIFUL ICEI3ERG.         239

"Nor never can?" he then said, as a dying man asks
his physician if there is any hope.
"Nor never can," was the final and fatal reply.
"You love another~?" prompted jealousy.
"Yes, that is-I did," came from her lips, as if by com-
pulsion; and she hoped by this confession to be spared
any more importunities.
"JJid?" asked the Count in amazement. "And you'll
marry him?"
"Never! he's~ married!" said the trembling, agitated
girl, as though she had been at a confessional, upon which
her life depended.
" Married? Then God help ris both!" and again he
buried his face in his hands with a moan, while Gertrude
sat, with a pained expression upon her face, looking
through the blinds out into the pale, cold moonlight as it
fell upon a foumitain in the fl9wer-garden. A few mo-
ments of silence, and arising she said:
"if you will be kind enough to assist me in finding my
uncle, I will go home now."
"I am always at your service, mademoiselle, but will
you not have ~some refreshments?"
"Nb, thank you! I feel as if II must be alone'
"But your engagements?"
"Must be broken!"
"A glass of champagne will revive your spirits, and
then you can keep them."
"With ma~ny thanks for your kindness, I still must in-
sist upon going home;" and as they walked through the
elegant sd1on~s which were now thronged with the guests
wb~o were returning from the banqueting hall, many

I

were the eyes which followed Gertrude in unuttered ad-
miration.
The occasion was a ball at the French Ambassador's;
and out of all the glittering crowd, our Gertrude bore off
the diadem that nighL
And yet, how simply was she dressed: in white illusion
with puffing and flounces, an overskirt looped with scar-
let geraniums, a cluster of the same dazzling flowers in
her blonde hair, and coral jewelry. Somehow, blue is
the traditional color~ for blondes, and yet, if they did but
know it, nothing is more becoming to them than scarlet
and white. But then, a pretty woman can take great
liberties; and so what does it matter so she's pretty at
last? The uncle was found, adjeus were spoken, and the
Count stood at the carriage-door saying "Good-night."
"We shall see you soon," Gertrude was saying.
"rtaineme~t, 8~ VOU&amp; meperm~tte~ ceylaisir.',
"We shall be only too happy to see you. Au revoir! '
"Au revoir;" and as he stood in the moonlight looking
after the carriage which held all that was dear to him in
life, Gortrude leant her head upon her uncle's shoulder,
and sobbed in a low, hysterical way which is not un-
common to her sex.

II)

238

239


NOT iN T~IE CALENDAR.

i

CHAPTER XXXVI.
NOT IN TIlE CALENDAR.
1111, the misery of those days!!! KNot in the calen.
'~ Yes, they are there, but you are too blind tc
see them!"
"My eyes aregood!"
"Yes, but it's the blindness that will not see. There
~re the signs written opposite every day."
e~td them! "Happy to-day," "gloomy to-morrow,"
wretched the next day," "ill the next," "better the
next," and so 011% according to the life ~vhk1i discloses
the symptoms, for every day until you die.
Eor, as Thackeray truly says: "Life is a mirror: if
you frown at it, it frowns back; if you smile, it returns
the greetifig."
Cruel or jnst~ whichever you like,, as the old Mosaic.
law, and unfortunately for the convenience of some few
(?~ has not changed with the Christian era. If men
~ could have altered it, they would have had blood ilowing
better~ i high, but what they would have bad a law
adapted to the\ demands of their little foibles. As
it they try to make life what they wish it to be, re-
gardless of any TJerea~fter, so long as they can deceive
one. another and have a good time. Deceiving one an-
other, though, is not deceiving God, and IJis 'laws arc
inexoral ~le.

2A0~

There had been no pleasure gilding Clifford's cup of
pain, and he hadn't even th~t, one poor little consolation
with which the generality of sinners try to balance their
suffering.
Nothing but remorse as the bitter wages of transgres-
sion.
Was it nothing for him to lie there and helplessly sub-
mit to the heaping of coals upon his head? Nothing for
him to be watched over so tenderly, so lovingly, by4he
woman he had wronged? Nothing for him to see her
life-blood oozing out drop by drop, and day by day?
Sometimes, in his agony, he would say to himself: "I
will tell her all;" and as if driven to do it that instant,
would say:
"Virginia, come here; I wish to talk to you."
Then, when sl~.e would come with a smile, and "Yes,
dear," his heart would misgive him-lie would as soon
kill a dove as wound her; and turning away, he wonid
close his eyes, and say: "Never mind, now; some other
time," little dreaming that she knew all. She, a woman
and a wife, knew that her husband loved another
woman, and yet could keep silent. "Impossible! She's
only a pretty absurdity dressed up for a novel, for no
*   such woman ever existed," sneer the wiseacres, who
concur in the generally received opinion that the whole
*    sex haven't an idea above a fashion-book or a new tonne&amp;
We'll admit, without further argument, that a woman
*   with a soul is almost as rare as a man with the same
faculty, and perhaps the reason she is so little appreciated
is the slight demand in market for such creatures. If a
man ever happens to have a ~soul, he can go into battle
and get gloriously shot down for his country, or he can
it

241

NOT IN TU13 CALENDAR.


242          'SOT IN 'X'UE CALENDAR.                                                                     243

NOT 'TN THE GALENDAR.

found hospitals for the poor, and build asylums for the
homeless; but if a woman i~ born with a soul, society
reserves the exclusive privilege of crushing out what God
has given her, and of putting her in one of its model (?)
grooves. If, however, she dares to go on in her own
little way, the knowing ones conclude there must be
something wrong about her; and from the moment she
hoists a flag of opposition, from that moment begh~s a.
'warfare between Mrs. Grundy and herself which only
ceases in~ the grave. If Mrs. Clifford Troup, Jr., chose to
lock her secret in her heart until she died, hadn't she a
perfect right 'to di) it?
If she chose to try and brighten her husband's life,
which she well knew was as wretched as her own, who
had any right to interfere'? What good would all the
~'tears, all the Wringing of hands, all the hysterics, all the
gossip with neighbors, have done?
Would such ~ course have given 'her her husband's
heart?
Never! and having failed-to win his love, there was
nothing more in life for her 'to do, except to smooth his
pathway, and then to die. So long as health lasted, and'
he was daily enabled to drown the upbraidings of con-
science by artificial means, Clifford managed to worry
along 'with life after a certain fashion. But when mis~~
fortune and disease came upon him, and he was once
more under the dominion of reason, new tortures con-
stantly beset him, and life, in its beginning, was already
Ao~e long remorse.
His 'recovery seemed far removed as yet, for his iim
'-provement was scarcely Perceptible, and no surprise will
~be expressed at 'this, when to bodily suff.~wing were added

his 'own secret griefs, and anxiety about the increasing
troubles at -the "Manor." Besides all this, his practice
was, of -course, entirely neglected, and the frequent drains
made upon him by his father had left huin almost with-
4ut a dollar. how 'humiliating to a man of his pride, and
sometimese, in the bitterness of his heart, he would say:
"Can any more be sent upon a man than this?"
And all 'the time we are remembering that the "iniq~
uities of the fathers shall be visited upon the children,"
etc., etc.
Then 'would come .a fresh stab i-n.the galling thought:
"I deserve it all for turning from the path of honor and
rectitude."
His father had only been to see him once or 'twice, and
then the visits were short band formal; but his poor
mother, who came daily, 'how it crucified his 'heart to see
her, for she was pale and thin, and weary and sad, while
oftentimes her eyes 'were red 'witlr 'weeping, and he
knew 'that the life she was forced to lead was killing
her. Not 'a woM had they exchanged, but in the pressure
of hands, in the kisses, in 'the glances, 'they knew all that
each other suffered. It is said That the law of cornpensa~
tion provides a corresponding pleasure for every woo;
but -even this maynot he enjoyed, when -what would other-
~~ise be a joy is but a fresh stab.
Thus did the proffered kindness prove a pain, "when,
on the morning in question, Virginia 'entered -the room
with a waiter in her hand, and said': - -
"Come, Clifford, do try and eat thi~ bird; for I cooked
it with my own hands, .and 'I shall be .dr~adf ally disap~
pointed if y~u do not gratify me."
"Virginia, you ar~ too 'good, and for your sake I will

'I


244           NOT n~ TIlE CALENDAR.                                       NOT IN THE UALENDAII.       24~

try and eat something;" and the gratitude which filled
the heart of the invalid welled up to his eyes and gave
them a tenderer look than usual.
"And see, Pve brought you the very prettiest camellias
that were in the greenhouse;" and taking from tl~~
waiter a cluster of these cold but lovely flowers, she held
them up for his admiration.
"how beautiful!" and taking the thin, little white
hand 'that hold them, he kissed it, saying:
"Thus do I thank you; and, darling, put them on the
table here by me, for floWers do brighten a sick room so
much."
"Darling!" did he call her "darling"? Did she
hear aright? Yes, he called her "darling," else why did
her heart go pit-apat, why did the blood' mount to her
pale cheeks, why did the tears stand in her eyes?
She hadwaited, oh so long, for just one little word of
love, just one little pet name, and this was the first; per-
haps he did care for her, j list a little, after all. But in
the new sensation which this "darling" created, she was
forgetting all about Clifford's breakfast, and he was watch-
ing her with a smile on his lips to see what effect this
strange word would have.
Suddenly she looked up, and her face was radiant as
she said, with emphasis:
"Yes, darling, I will arrange them as soon as you eat
some Qf my little birdie;" and with these words she put
a piece of the birdie's breast into his mouth, then gave
him a sip 'of coffee;t'hen a piece of toast, and so on, until
the breakfast was completed. Then she was more than
repaid for burnt fingers 'and blistered cheeks, when her
husband said:

Why, I didn't know my little wife was such ~ good
cook; the breakfast was delicious; but remember, Vir-
ginia, you are not strong; and you must not fatigue your-
self for me. At present, I have no appetite; but. when I
get better, I will consider it a privilege to eat anything
prepared at 'Mossy Creek."'
"Isn't this better than that dreary old hotel at M-?"
"Oh, a thousand times! Everything is so cosay and
cheerful. I think I would have died had we remained
there!"
"But I hope you are going to improve rapidly here,
Clifford."
"I hope so, after the fatigue of the trip is over, for IL
can ill afford to lose so much time from my business."
"Oh, let your business go now, and don't worry your-
self about what you can't help; it will only retard your
recovery, if it does not make you ill;" and with these
words, the little wee wife, who talked. such grand philoso-
phy about not worrying over impossibilities, tucked the
cover around her husband, stroked back his hair, kissed
his brow, and taking the waiter, went downstairs ; while
Clifford took her advice, turned over, forgot his troubles,
closed his eye5, and went to sleep.


'246

ALL TUAT~ A WOMAN IS BORN FOR~?

OIIAPTER xxx vii.
ALL THAT A WOMAN 15 BORN FOR?
HE blessed season of Lent had caused a lull in
the gay world, and for one, Gertrude was glad
of it, for she was heartily .~tired and worn out
with her first season of city life.
"What is the matter with you, Gertrude?" said her
uncle one morning, from over his paper; of course, for lie
had noticed' that forseveral days she had not been in her
usual spirits.
"Matter with me?" she answered, in rather ani ab-
stracted and evasive manner.
"Yes. What makes you look so blue these last few
days?" again asked the anxious uncle.
"Nothin~-.that. is, nothing much;" was the hesitating
reply.
"I suppose you are sad because the balls ~an4 parties
are all over, or because the' handsome Count dQesn't come
so often no~v. Say, isii't that it?"
"No, indeed, uncle, for I wouldn't care if I never at~
tended another ball or party;" and leaving her seat, she
walked around the table, for they were at breakfast and
sat down beside him.
"Why, Gertrude, you amaze me!"
"I'm heartily sick and tired of the life I lead, and I
want something to do."
"Something to do? Why, haven't you your dressing,

'U

ALL THAT A WOMAN IS BORN FOR?
your balls, your parties, operas, theatres, dinners, beaux,
flirtations, music, and French? Heaven knows, I should
think they would give you something to do! Any one of
them would be enough to keepaman busy!"
"And is that all a woman is born for? "
"It seems so, or at least custom has so decreed it!"
"And am I to be a slave to the decrees of custom all
my life, whether I wish to be or not?"
The uncle, who was rather orthodoxx in his views about.
women, was quite amazed at the revolt of his niece, and
said:
"The end of all this is ~iot so 1~ad."
"Whatistheend?"
"Marriage."
"You mean to say that women are expected to appear
as puppets, as walking dolls dressed up for exhibition for
such a length of time, and then are to be knocked off to
the highest bidder?"
"She has her choice between that and being an old
maid."
"if I were a man, I wouldn't marry one of these doib
babies; and besides, where is the disg~raee of being an old
maid?"
"I never could see any, but then the world looks at. i~
differently."
"And must the world force a woman into marriage,.
because the world thinks it a disgrace to bean old maid? "'
"There are other reasons, though, and better ones,. why
women should marry."
"What are they?"
"In the first place, it is right, and was so intended by
God."


248      ALL THAT A, WOMAN 15 BORN FOR?

"But you evidently agree with St. Paul that 'it is bet-
ter for man to be alone,"' with a smile.
"Oh, I'm not in the question," he answered, looking a
little teased.
"Well then, it's right for a woman to marry. That's
reason No. 1; what are the others?"
"They are happier!"
"Whether they love their husbands or not, I ~ ~~ppose?
Reason No.2. Any others?"
"Who'll take care of them when they are old?"
- "Oh, that's it, is it? We are to marry for board and
clothes. If you taught us how to do something else be-
sides dress and flirt, we would be able to. take care of our*
selves."
"I have no objection to your doing something!"
"But I don't know how!
"II~re.J am without a dollar in the ~vorld, only as mother
works for it; yet raised to do nothing but dress and fly
around just as if I were the daughter of a 2nillionflaire.
1 do not think it is right, 'in
not satisfied."          dc, and this is the reason I am
* So it seems that even so far back as a quarter of a ecu.
tury ago, that, one woman, at least, was strugglil)g for
something higher and nobler than a merely fashionable
life; and Mr. flail, who considered marriage the best so-
lution of all these difficulties, was rather nonplussed when
he found his niece so heterodox in her ideas.
They were both silent for a little while; then Gertrude
said:
"Now, iunck, suppose, if you can, that such an anomaly
as this exists': a woman who is tired of being a fashion~
able idler-a woman who does not wish to marry-..-.--"

ALL TIIAT A WOMAN 15 BORN FOR?    249

C~ That's rather a hard thing to do," he interrupted her
to say, with a mischievous smile.
"It's true, nevertheless; and a woman who wants to do
something, who wants to earn her own living by the
* brains, and with the hands God has given her."
"My dear child, you fill me with admiration ;" and
drawing l~er towards him, he kissed her brow, while a
* slight moisture might have been noticed in his eyes.
"But what can you do?"
"At present, nothing! but in the future, whatever we
choose to-day!"
"Would to heaven you were a boy!" was the enthusi~
astic reply of the statesman, while his eyes glowed with
thoughts of a brilliant future, if only her sex were different.
"Make me a boy," she answered, while her cheeks
burned and her eyes sparkled with the new life which
was even then opening before her, in imagination.'
"Teach me some profession, some employment, some-
thing, and you will lift me from a refining, miserable
idler, into a noble and a true woman. Only give rue
something to do, and I'll do it!"
"Without any regrets?"
"Without any regrets," was the eager repetition.
"But you can't make speeches, you can't be a lawyer,
you can't go into politics."
"But I could be your amanuensis as well or better
than the one you employ, and with some instruction I
could keep your books, etc.; while, in the' mean time, with
your permission, I might be perfecting myself in French
and music, with a view to teaching.~~
Noble girl! It shall be as you say, only I prefer
that you shall learn to make yourself useful to me; for I
11*


250       ALL THAT A WOMAN IS BORN FOR?                                    ALL THAT A WOWT IS BORN FOR?        251

flever wish you to leave me, unless it be to marry the
man of your choice." With these words, he gave her a
searching look, to discover, if possible, whether the past
was buried or only slumbering; and. somehow he fancied.
there was a tone of resignation and sadness' in her voice
when she said:
"Then I will be with you until IL die; for, I do not
think I shall ever marry.?'
"Come, make no rash promises, but tell me when you
will be ready to enter upon your duties?"
"To-day."
"Your answer bespeaks promptness, and that is one of
the chief requisites in all kinds of business. Then, if
you will be ready to-day, I must dismiss the present im.
cumbent."
"That would be hardly fair. Give him notice; thea'
~ allow him time to get another situation."
"Your' consideration for others is a just reL.uke for
my inconsiderate haste, and I will act upon the kind sug-
gestion. By George! you ought to have been a man;
you would have made your mark!"
"I hope to make it as a woman, or II shall not consider
'myself worthy to' have your blood flowing in my veins."
"Oh, you flatterer! But, of course, you must retain
a few female attributes."
"Most certainly! if~ they consist in saying, not only
good and true, but pleasant things~"
"Well, I must go now to meet an appointment; and
believe me, child, I walk forth with a prouder heart than
ever beat before in my breast. I had some fears about~
introducing you into society here, lest you should be-
come, as most womeii do, fascinated only with its frivoli.

ties. But YOU have come out of the contest with such
honor to yourself an4 glory to me, that I shall have no
apprehensions for the ~Euture. I have now one request to
make, and that is, tha~t you shalt confide ~ll your thoughts,
hopes, and wishes to me. Will you do it?"
"Most cheerfully, and feel honored in granting a
request which reflects so much distinction upon me."
"Honors will be easy, I think," he answered - merrily,
while Gertrude brought his hat, cane, and cloak, for the
weather was yet cold ~ta~d bleak.
Receiving then the parting kiss, and holding the door
open for him to pass out, she returned to her household
duties, merry as a lark, and thinking joyfully of the
happy time when she, too, should have something to do
-some engagement t4~ keep, some business to perform.

251

250


K

252

DEAR PAUL?

CHAPTER XXXVIJI.

DEAR PAUL!
OOR Paul," say we, for we had almost forgotten
he was in the land of the living.
It was evident, however, some one else remem-
bered him, and that fact doubtless will repay him for any
oblivion on our part. Come now, let us transpose the
golden rule, for the first (?) time, you know, by doing unto
him not as we would have him do unto us, and having
quieted our 'consciences, peep over his shoulder and see
what he is reading. lie w~s keeping house at "The Re-
treat," and with the morning mail came a letter wl~ich
sent his heart up into his mouth, and his blood tingling~
through his veins, while his hand trembled so that he
could scarcely break the seal. It was a clear, bold hand,
bespeaking strength and character, and read, thus:
WASHINGTON CITY, D. C., February l9tA, 18-.
DEAR PAUL :-I am the happiest of women, and write you a
hasty note to tell you of my good fortune. I will not call it a reply
to your last charming letter, but beg that you will take the will for
the deed this time. I have quit being a fashionable young lady,
and have gone to work in real earnest.
Uncle has dismissed his amanuensis, whom he found. very incom-
petent after he had gone, and having installed me in that position,
I am now up to my eyes in righting matters. I am also studying
bookkeeping, with a view to taking charge of uncle's business.
Dear Uncle says, "if I were only a boy, I would make my mark;"
and I assure him I intend to make it, even if.[ am a woman. lie is

DEAR PAIJL!

253

~much delighted and amazed that I prefer business to society, and
kindly gives me all the assistance he can. . We are looking forward
to your visit with a great deal of pleasure, especially Uncle (?) You
will be here by the inauguration. Uncle desires to he remembered,
and says take care of the dear old "Retreat," and don't neglect
his dogs and horses. But I must say "good-by," for "business of
a pressing nature demands my time," as you men say; and how
nicely it sounds, for I think it is glorious to have something to do.
"Good-by."                     Your friend, GERTRUDE.
P. S. Eliza, Jane, and' Harry are well, and take to city life very
naturally I
Signed Gertrude! That looks suspicious, and bodes well
for "Dear Paul;" for whenever a woman signs only one
name, sh&amp; must be on most excellent (?~ terms with him to
whom she writes. And how very feminine the "P. S.,,
-for as some one has said, women generally put the gist
of what they have to say into their postscripts. It was
only a plain, frank, girlish letter, a deal of like but no
love in it; and yet it made iPaul supremely happy, par-
ticulai'ly when he 4welt upon the words," we are looking
forward to your visit with a great deal of pleasure."
Then he would read it over again; and indeed, what is
there in life that gives us more real, genuine, and unadul-
terated pleasure than letters from those we love?
It seems a very little thing to take an envelope, to
break the seal, and then to find an ecstasy of joy filling
our souls as we read those pages which~ are covered with
words that breathe and burn. And perchance we may
find a presence there which shall compensate us for the
weary miles which separate us from the loved and absent.
We always said "amen" to Sancho Panza's exclama-
tion about the man who invented sleep, and to that peti.


254              DEAI~ PAUL!                                                   NOTHING!

tion for blessing we desire to add: "God bless the man
who invented IettersY
Sometimes, we think, brief as it is, that the pleasure of
receiving and reading letters is even greater than that of
presence, for somehow we put more of ourselves into our
letters than we do in our conversation. The reason for
this is obvious. In society, we endeavor to conceal our
real feelings; but in writing, there's no one looking at us,
no one listening to us, and our poor downtrodden hearts
will have a little showing in spite of us. But time is
hurrying us on, and so we leave "dear Paul," with his
letter and his thoughts.

254

CHAPTER XXXIX~
NOTHING I
HE Ides of March found Clifford back at his post
in the village of L-;: and the warm welcome*
he received, both from his uncle's family and his
friends, would have gratified the reasonable vanity of
any man. He was still weak, for hi~ arm was far
from being well, and it. was against the; earnest pro-
testations of his wife, physician, and family, that he
returned to business in his present debilitated staW.
Virginia was not strong enough to accompany him; and
in truth she had grown so much weaker that she scarcely
now ever left her bed. The poor father and mother
were heart4roken over their one little iamb; but to their
oft-repeated and anxious inquiries as to what was the
matter, the patient sufferer always answered, "Nothing."
Day by. day she grew weaker, paler, and thinner, and
good old Dr. Bell was baffled for once.
* His prescriptions evidently did not reach the nialady;
and it was well for our little martyr's. secret that he did
not possess the usual insight of his profession, or he might
have seen that there was something within which no
human skill could cure.
"Have you been taking the tonic Jeannie?" asked'
this good old doctor,. one morning; for the anxious pa-
rents would have lift come. to see her every day.
"No, doctor,?' answered a thin pair ot bluish lipej f*


250             OT1ING!I

257

the ~blood had all gou~ out of her face, and she Wfl8
ghastly until it was distressing to look at her.
"Why ?" he asked, feeling her pulse, and seeing how
very much weaker she was.
"Because, doctor, I fancied it didn't do me any good,"
with a sweet smile; for, although wretched herself, t~he
had determined, with her usual unselfishness, to make
those around her happy, so long as life was spared.
"But you are not the physician, Mis&amp;-or Madam-I
beg Mrs. Clifford Troup's pardon, but you will never be
anything but just little Jeannie Dearing to me."
"Nor to me, nuther, doctor," chimed in old black
:Mammy, who scarcely left her "dear chile'&amp;' bed day
or night; "and do Lord knows I wish dis 'ore chile neber
had gone off and lef' us. I jes believe if she neber had,
she'd neber bin in dis fix."
"Oh, Mammy, you mustn't talk that way! Hush, now!
and don't ever talk that way again."
The doctor smiled at iMlainmy's notions, and then, turn-
ing to his patient, said:
"But you must take the tonic, Jeannie; for I find you
ver~ much weaker this morning."
"Well, doctor, if you say so, I will;"
"That's a good girl! and give her some of it now, Main-
my, right away. Take it for a week, regularly, and you
will be so much better that we will have a picnic down
on 'Mossy Creek,' at .the very spot where you and I used
to go fishing when you were a wee little thing. Do you
remember?"
"Oh, yes," with a sigh. "It was ever so long ago."
"Yes; how old we are getting!" he smiled, and said.
" In addition to *the. tonic, Mammy, you must try and get

I

NOTHlING !

her up every day, so that. she can walk around the house;
and if you would take her out on the lawn in the warm
spring sunshine, it would do her good."
"Yes, sah," answered Mammy, as though she under.
stood it all, and a little m9re too.
"But remember, now, Jeannie, I tell yon once more to
take the tonic regularly, for we are to have the picnic in
a week. Will see you to-morrow. Good-by;" and shak-
ing her little thin, white hand, he was gone.
Outside the door, the anxious mother stood weeping;
and as the doctor came out she said:
"Doctor, do tell me, what is the matter with my
precious child?"
"I think she is only suffering now from the fatigue
consequent upon nursing Clifford. She was not able to
do it, but you know she would do it, and now we have
this unpleasant consequence. The excitement and anx-.
iety which then sustained her being gone, excessive de-
bility ensues; but I do not think there is any cause for
appreliensi6n."
b~ Really, doctor?" was the anxious question.
"Really, madam, that is my candid opinion. But do
not let her see you crying, or I will not answer for the
consequences;" and bowing "good-morning," he took
his departure.
"Will not answer for the consequences!" Only see
how little he knew of the inward strength of that frail
body. Indeed, like many others, he did not believe it
possible for a woman to be wretched, and not make a
fuss about it. It had never occurred to him that such a
fragile little creature could suffer and be silent, or that
she could lock a seci~et in her heart, (and take it down to


the grave with her. But we see and know that she can
do it-that she does do it-and that, evefl while her heart
is bleeding at every pore, she smiles, forgetting herself
in the pleasure that she desires to give others; taking all
the burden upon her own little shoulders, which others
would have borne so gladly for her sake.
And what would the world think if we should say that
there are many other w~men who put their anguish out
*of sight, and while their life-blood is dripping drop by
drop, those who ar&amp; iea~rest and dearest believe them
well and happy.
And so that little child-wife upstairs, with her head
resting in her old black Mammy's lap, was dying; and
the mother went singing through the house because the
doctor thought there was nothing serious, the matter;
and the father was so encouraged that he had gone to the
city to look after some business.
Could loneliness be more lonely? In the bosom of
one's family, yet alone.
Dying! but they did not see it, for she called it
"Kothing!"

CHAPTER XL.
y
AT LAI4IL'.
crime, seems to possess a peenilar fas-
cination which leads its victims down to deeper
depths, until the' final hour of ruin comes.
Once in debt, how hard to break its iron fetters! Once
in crime, how hard to wash out its bloody spots!
What need to partkmlarize ? The storm that li~d so
long been brewing over the "Manor '~ burst at last, and
nothing was spared to appease its fury.
We already know how hopelessly involved the Hon.
Mr. Troup was, and we also know his son has told him
that he would never again be a beggar, not even to save
the "Manor."
lie had, rescued it once, and how dearly that redemp-
tioii cost, we know only too well.
had the father properly appreciated this sacrifice, and
realized the fact that he was no longer a millionnaire,
matters might have taken a different turn. As it was, he
squandered in 'reckless waste all the money he could lay
his hands npon, and for the last few months had been
living by disposing of the remainder of the family silver.
The "Manor" was under another heavy mortgage, and a
week preceding the day of which we write Mr. Troup
had been notified that unless the money was forthetming
under the bond, the property would be seized at the time
specified in the deetl. This was a terrible awakening

258  NOHING !AT LAST.25

258

NOTHMG


260                  AT LAST.

261

AT LAST.

from fancied security, for heretofore some friendly han ~
had always been stretched forth to relieve him at the
last moment; and besides, he flattered himself that no man
would dai'e to treat the Hon. Mr. Troup as if he were
a common mortal. Unpalatable though the fact may be,
there are a few men in the world who love mpney more
than blood, and it is a well-known fact that these same
vulgar Q) creatures take special delight in tearing down an
aristocracy to which, unfortunately, they do not belong.
Mr. Hammerly being of this persuasion, chuckled over the
mortgage which he obtained for a contemptible sum, and
prayed in his bad heart that Mr. Troup would fail, to
come to time, so'that lie might enjoy the exquisite felicity
of driving this haughty aristocrat from his ancestral do-
main. It seems that Mr. Troup knew his man, for, as
often as the "Manor" had been jeopardized, he now, for
the first time, contemplated leaving it.
So great~ was his pride, though, that he could not g~dn
his consent toJLcquaint even his wife with his plans, arid
it was now 'the last night at the "Manor."
If it were possible, we should like to pass it over in
silence; or throw such an impenetrable veil over the scene
that no human eye could see behind its folds.
But we dare not, for b? this man's life we hope to show
not only the crime, but the inevitable ruin, which must
finally come to those who niake money their God.
Did not the Lord God say:
"Thou shalt have none other gods but me!',
But how fex~eed the Divine command in comparison
with the         ho defy it!
The picture was enough to have moved a stone to pity;
but It seems to be one of the inevitable laws of transgrea~.

sion, to deny us that sympathy and consolation which
might be ours under different, circumstances. Bo~~ed
beneath the weight of unhappy memories which fio9ded
his soul, crushed with the thought of his impending doom,
shut out by his pride from the sympathy of a single hu-
man being, and too obstinate to ask help of God, the old
man sat alone with his gray head bowed upon a table.
The night was far spent, ai~d yet no feeling of sleep came
over him; for remorse was.too busy, conscience too parn~
ful, and he now felt all the agony of leaving the home.
stead of his fathers. He now remembered that he had so
often I)een'unjust where he might have been just; imperi-
ous, where he might have spoken a kind i~rord; tyrannical,
where he might have exercised mercy; extravagant, when
by economy he might have liquidated his debts, and still
been an honorable man and the happy owner of the
"Manor." To some extent, his imperiousness may be
accounted for upon the score of the slavery system then
existing, for the keeping of human souls would make
the greatest humanitarian who ever lived domineering.
We do not sajit would make men cruel, but overbear-
ing; and bitter as the thought may be, it will have to be
swallowed along with some other unpleasant truths.
The Hon. Mr. rl7roup was a humane master, but arrogant;
a kind husband, but exacting; a model (~) father, who
made noble&amp;9e obliae strangle the cries ~f Nature, and set
at defiance the 1aw~ of God. But retribution came at
last, and upon this night of self..examination all the acts
of his life combined did not give him so much pain as
that one in which lie had sacrificed his boy for money.
What goodhad it doire?
Better ask what evil it had not done? For while it.

N

11
f


262T

AT LAST.

had only postpoiied the hour of ruin, it had wrecked the
lives of two innocent beh~gs, and ,~even now the ghosts
of ~on and daughter were demanding retribution at the
hands of him who immolated them.
The night was almost gone, and a faint streak of dawn
was visible in the east, when Mrs. Troup, weary and pale,
left her sleepless and unhappy bed to seek her husband,
for whose coming she had waited in vain. Going to the
library where she felt he must be, she turned the bolt
softly, and entered.
"Who's there?" cried the old man springing up, and
full of that nervous apprehension whk~h is the result of
a conscience ill ~t ease.
"it's only I, Clifford," answered his wife.
"Why could you not leave me alone?" he asked
bitterly, and sinking back jnto the chair from which he
had arisen.
"I3ecause, Clifford, 1 believe a wife's place to be by
her husband's side when he is in trouble;" and taking a
seat by him, she kissed his bowed head, then leaned upon
his shoulder.
"Who said Ii was in trouble?" he asked, raising his
head and trying to~ look courageous in the midst of~
despair.
"Oh, Clifford! A wife does not need 'words to tell
her when her husband is suffering. Why do you con-
ceal anything from me? Why do you not kt me help
you bear your burden? No matter what it is' tell me,
Clifford, or I shall feel that you consider me unwo4hy to
bear the sacred name of ~jf~*~~
Then, without any preliminaries to prepare her for the
blow, he said ~quickly, as if in a hurry to get through

AT LAST.

263

with a painful task: "Since you will know it, I am
ruined, and today we leave the 'Manor' forever!"
There were no screams-no exclamations-only a sur-
prised start-a clenching of the hands-a scarcely audible
moan-a white cirde around her lips, which were coin-
pressed tightly to keep from uttering a syllable, lest
some word should escape which would brin~ additional
b
pain to him whom it was now her duty and desire to
console.
In the morbid condition of his mind, it was but natural
for him to misconstrue her silence, and he said:
"Mary, if you have any reproaches, keep them to your-
self~ I am in n'o mood to hear them; aiid besides, I would
have spared you what you ]iave forced from me."
"Reproaches, Clifford? For what do you take me
Am I not your wife, do I not love you?" and patting
both arms around his neck, she kissed his sorrow-seamed
brow.
Overcome by this unexpected manifestation of his
wife's unchanging love, he folded her in his arms, and
bowing his head, upon her shoulder, wept the first tears
which had moistened his eyes for years. A1as! could
the revolution that was going on in 'his breast then have
taken place sooner, we had been spared the sad task
before us. The first torrent of grief over, he looked imp,
and through his tears said:
"You love me, Mary? I, who have brought di~gm~ace,
and dishonor, and misery upon youP'
"You have brought nothing upon me which I am not
willing to bear for your sake," she answered, like the true
wife she was, while one arm rested lovingly around his

r


~Wr~ -
--I
204

neck, and her blue eyes looked tenderly through their
tears into his.
"Think, Mary, 11 go from this house today, ruined 1"
"And I go with you!"
"I go hence a Aishonored maul"
"Why dishonored i?"
"Because n~y name is a synonym for all that is faith.
less."
"So much more the reason that your wife should cling
to you."
"And you are ready to begin life over again with a
pauper, Mary?"
"Ready to share any fate witbmy husband!"
"God in Heaven, this is more than I deserve; but if
you will cling to and sustain me, I shall yet liMe to
retrieve the past."
"Dear husband, if you will only confide in me as you
used to do-if you ~vill only let me~help you, you do not
kn9w how it will gladden my heart to cheer you, no mat~
ter how the clouds n~ay thicken."
"Then you shall help me, Mary; for ever since I have
withheld my troubles from you, things have been getting
worse and worse. Now, I will tell you my plans, which
up to this ti5e~ a false pride has made me cQnoeal from
you. I intend giving up 'everything here to tiny credit~
ors."
"That is right."
"And then opening a law-office in M-, from which
* I can reap a comfortable if not a handsome support."
"Of course.~~
"We will take 'a house as soon as we have time to look

7AT LAST.

AT LAST.

266

around, and in the meantime will remain with the girls.'
What do you think ~f my plans?"
With a heart aching at the prospect of leaving the
"Manor," ~he answered like the brave woman she was:
"I think well of them, and I do not doubt but that we
will be more contented there than here, harassed as we
constantly are by our creditors; for when we give up
everything they will know we have nothing more; and
perhaps will let us rest."
"True, my brave wife, my good angel! But see, it
is day, and as there is much' to be done, we have no
time to lose;, and may God bless you for lifting the
burden from my heart, as you *have done this morn-
ing. Have the house put in perfect order, for doubt-
less ilammerly will be here early to claim his ill-gotten
prize;" and with a kiss, the husband and wife who,
through the false pride of the former, had been so long
estranged, repaired to their respective duties with lighter
hearts than they had known for many weary months.
Thus we see that perfect confidence and love between
man and wife can brighten even the brink of despair, and
as God is our Judge, we believe nothing less should exist.
How true it is that we never know how much we can
endure until our powers of endurance are called into
action.
Mrs. Troup was an example, for had she given way to
her feelings, the day would have been spent in useless
weeping; but with a stout heart she forced back 'her
tears, and 'went bravely forward to do whatever had to be
done. Calling the servants early, she gave each their re~
spective tasks, and with kind words flitted here and tliere,
encouraging them in their work. To avoid these painful


266                  AT LAST.
in-door preparations, Mr. Troup sought relief outside; but
there was no peace for him, not even in the woods, for
there memory followed him, and the accusations of a
guilty conscience tortured him almost to madness. Grief
made him oblivious of time, and when, at length, he con-
sulted his watch, he was amazed to find that several hours
had gone by. Quickly retracing his steps, he stood for 8
moment upon an eminence that commanded a flue view
of his lost estate, and taking a last lingering look, went
hurriedly on to the liouse, without even a backward
glance.
The house was not one of those palaces that you gen-
erally read of in novels, but was a regular Southern
home; and when we say this, we mean it was one of
those large, square frame houses, with Corinthian pillars
supporting a colonnade which ran around three sides and
connected with ~vings at either end; large windows t~tlic
floor, and a broad flight of granite steps, which were
guarded by couchant lions; a broad hall, with grand
apartments opening on to it, and everything suggestive of
immense comfort and immense wealth.
There are scores of such houses in the South, and the
picture will be recognized at once.
Mr. Troup returned none too soon; for he had been
preceded by Hammerly, his lawyer, and the sheriff, and
the three were sitting in sullen silence upon the gallery,
awaiting the coming of the "haughty aristocrat." The
truth is, ilammerly feared the 'bird had flown; for a
villain believes all others villains, the same ~s a drunkard
thinks all othei~ men drunk. As for ilammerly, his
regard for man's moral (?) status surpassed even Wal-
role's; for the premier limited his men who could be

AT LAST.

bought to that much-abused class known as politicians;
but, judging others by himself, friend Ilammerly boldly
declared That "every mai~ has his price."
That naughty poet, Byron, said: "Revenge is sweet
to womefl;" and looking into' ilammerly's heart, we find
that it is also sweet to men sometimes; for lie would
have considered the estate of the Troups a poor recom-
pense for his money, had he been denied the exquisite
pleasure of insulting the "haughty aristocratt" and this
was because Mi.. Tyoup did not receive him socially, but
treated him like the cur he was.
While, h~ was nursing his wrath,~and fearing he would
not have the long-coveted revenge, the honorable subject
of his thoughts walked slowly down the avenue, and,
ascending the steps, greeted his enemies with the same
ease and elegance with which' he would have received a
foreign embassy. his 'r~ianner was cold and haughty,
though, and plainly said, "Thus far shalt thou go, and no
farther."
"Good-morning, gentlemen. II am sorry if II have kept
'you waiting. Come in!" and as he led the way, Ham-
merly followed with a sardonic grin on his bad, bold
face, saying:
"We thought you had gone for good, and-"
"Mr. hlaininerly!" said Mr. Troup, turning and look-
ing at him with such a look as made him tremble frQm
head to foot, while the pettifogger at his back pulled his
coat, and whispered: 'KE~o be more particular."
With a dogged determination, hiowev~r, to humiliate
his aristocratic debtor all thar he possibly could, and ig..
noring entirely his lawyer's whispered advice, lie said:
"Come now, Mr. Troup, as our time is d-n precious,
4'

*

Li

267

266

AT LAST-


we've got none to throw away on airs. If you've got the
spondulix, out with it; and if you haven't got it, we'll
proceed at once to take an inventory of the house, furni-~
ture, plantation, etc."
Mr. Troup did not answer at once, for pever before
had man dared to speak to him thus, and the effort to
control himself was taxing all the mettle in his power.
Becoming impatient, Ilammerly said again:
'~ Have y6u got the money?"
"I regret~to say I have not, but__"
"I knew it, I knew it," chuckkd this low adventurer.
"Never knew one of these d-n fine gentlemen come
up to time in my life. They are always ready, though,
with the most polished regrets, and the most eloquent
apologies; but these won't satisfy me, so you had as well
spare your breath., You see I expected trouble, so I just
brought along the county guardian to put down any little
unpleasantness which might come up."
Wirthing under the impertinence of this low-bred fel-
low, Mr. Troup felt as if he could grind him to atoms, as
he would a worm under his foot; but remembering how
entirely he was in his power, he said sternly, and with-
out condescending to notice his insinuations:
"Mr. Hainmerly, we are hQre for 1~usiness, not conver-
sation."
As it is a xvell-established fact that only the generous
can be magnanimous to the fallen, we should not be dis-
appointed to find the ignoble Ilammerly a stranger to
such a noble sentiment.
At length the knave was awed into silence by that mag-
netic power which superior minds must ever exert over

inferior intellects, and Mr. Troup continued to say, with
a dignity and iciness whk~h was unapproachable:
"The bond distinctly says if the money is not returned
on such a day, that I relinquish all interest in the prop-
erty now held by me, and known as the 'Troup Manor;'
does it not?"
It does," was the laconic reply, while the speaker was
burning with inward rage.
"Then, as Ii haven't the money, we will proceed to take
an inventory of the property, etc;" and leading the way,
the three men arose to follow him.
Turning around, Mr. Troup said, with the arrogance of
a master addressing a serf:
"Your lawyer will accompany us, Mr. Hammerly, and
the sheriff can either await you here or on the gallery."
Ilammerly looked the daggers he dared not utter, and
both he and his friends were in their hearts as much
frightened as if they had been in the presence of the arch-
fiend hims~ei~.
The sheri~ then speedily betook himself to the gallery.
And saying ~o the other men: "Excuse me a moment,"
Mr. Troup stopped into his wife's chamber, and requested.
her to have dinner' prepared for the men, and also to have
the carriage ordered, and to have evei'ything in readi-
ness, ~o they could leave as soon as he transacted his
business.
Then returning to the men, they entered upon their
mission silently and solemnly, for one dared not speak,
and the other had no inclination for conversation.
Never had Mr. Troup borne himself more grandly than
on this occasion, and while the low creatures who followed

268  ATLAS.~AT LAST.                                                                               26

268

AT LAST--

269


AT LAST.                   271

AT LAST.
at his heels hated him, they were compelled to admit
his superiority, for they felt it.
But his arrogance was subdued, his haughtiness was
considerate, and had lie but conducted himself in pvos-
perity half so well as he did in adversity, he would not
now be a ruined mali, and our story would never have
been told.
Strange, isn't it, that with all the lights before us, ~v e
still go on letting prosperity spoil us?
Stranger still, isn't it, that we never can understand
that of ourselves we arc nothing-that of ourselves we
can do nothing?
The unpleasant business ended, the men turned to go,
when ~Jr. Troup said, politely and ~uthoritatiVCly:
"Gentlemen, you will remain to dinner.'
The friend upon the gallery was then called; and fol-
lowing the late master into the dining-hall, which in years
gone by had been the scene of so many magnificent ban~
quets, they partook of a comfortable meal which Mrs. Troup
had had prepared. The family portraits which adorned
the walls had of course been reserved, and the fact that
those handsome fi'amnes were not to be his, seriou~ ly in-
terfered with Mr. Ilammerly's appetite. Certainly the
haughty aristocrat was welcome to the pictureS, for Mr.
ilammerly only wanted the frames, and he even ~vent
into a calculation as to the probability of what they would
bring if they were only touched up just a little. Thus it
is clear to see that this man who had an eye to business,
had no idea of squandering his money upon such a worth-
less ~?) class of people as painters, or upon such a con-
temptible ~?) art as that of Form and Color.
Mrs. Troup did not, of coarse, preside at this dinner,

but employed the time in saying "good-by" to such of
the servants as were to be found at their "quarters," for
most of them were out in the plantation at work.
At length, sick at heart, and weary, she sought refuge
in Aunt Charity's cottage-another one of those tradi-
tional "IMammys," about whom so much has been said and
written, but of whose faithful services and life-long de-
votion not the half will ever be known. Pleading fa-
tigue, she sank down upon a snowy bed, and gave vent
to the tears which would no longer be repressed.
"You be tired, honey, did you say?'? asked dear old
"Aunt Charity," who sat, the veritable picture of com-
fort and neatness, arrayed in a blue checked dress, with
the inevitable ~white apron, cape, and cap, while lier
glasses rested faithfully over eyes that would never enjoy
another glimpse of this beautiful world. No answer
coming from her mistress, the feeble old nurse, by the aid
of a cane, hobbled to the bed; and hearing the low sobs,
said kindly:
"What be de matter, honey?"
"Oh, Auiit Charity!" was all the heart-broken mis-
tm~ess could say; but that told all that she suffered, and
"A'unt Charity" brushed away a tear as she said:
"Poor chile ~ dese is dark times, but if ye trusts in
de Lord, lie will gib yer strength, to bear up under dern;"
for "Amuit Charity" was, and had ever been, the comifi-
dante\ of her mistress, and she knew that th~ hour of ruin
had come at last.
Soon forcing back the tears which she did not wish her
l~umsband to see, Mrs. Troup said.:
"Aunt Charity, we are going to-day, never to return.
But as I told you, ~ were not included in the deed a


272               ~~AT LAST.                                                                      A  LST27

.as soon as we get a house, we will send for you, and you
are to come and stay with us as long as you live. Do
you hear?"
But the poor old soul was sobbing like a child, and
eouhi not reply.
"Say, Aunt Charity, do you hear?" again pressed her
mistress.
"Yes, honey, provided de good Lord don't take me to
dem mansions in de skies 'fore den."
"Well, if He does, you'll be better off, for you know
there's a crown awaiting you up there."
here the conversation was interrupted by Mr. Troup,
who, having turned the keys over to and dismissed the
future possessor of the " Manor," came in search of his
wife, in order to quit a place where it was now torture
to remain. Once, not so very long ago, the son bad
experienced the same painful feeling. Now, the father
suffers the same torture. But the causes are vastly
different, and not until that last hour did the late master
realize:
Vengeance is Mine, I will repay, saith the Lord."
J3idding Aunt Charity "good-by," and telling her he
would send for her soon, he slipped his wife's hand
through his arm, and after a sobbing "God bless you"
f~om the blind old creature, who clung to them as if they
were parting forever, the master and mistress walked
~adIy and slowly away. Following a little path that led
to the family burying-ground, they noiselessly entered the
gate, and walked amongst the tombs of their ancestors
for generations back, for the husband and wife were
cmsins. There were many silent sleepers there, for the
hereditary foe, consumption, had made death a frequent

I

visitor in both families, and as usual, had singled out
the brightest and most beautiful for its fatal ni~rk. Al-
though unaffected by the tombs of the elder members of
the family, when they arrived at the graves of their own
little ones, the crushed pride of Mrs. Troup was all fur-
gotten, the world, with its sneers was ignored, and the
sobbing woman, who knelt and kissed the turf-covered,
violet-decked mounds, beneath which rested her own
flesh and blood, was only the-mother. The haughty
father, too, was deeply moved, ~and this seemed strange,
when we remember that he buried those little ones without
a tear, and with a curse in his heart for the God who
took them. And here we would ask why it is that pa-
rents are so inconsolable for those little creatures, whom
they know are taken from sorrow to come? Will they
never appreciate-can they never understand-that their
bereavement is a mercy to their offspring? Neither do
we say this in a spirit ~f complaint or rebellion, for well
we know that this ~vo~'ld is full of beauties for the pure,
.f nil of pleasures fpr t~e virtuous. But we all know that
the saintliest life iii u~t have its trials; and for this reason
we would dry the ~ears1which' fall for the innocents whom
God has given an~ wh~rn God has taken away. Stand-
ing in the presence 6f the dead, and thinking of the
dreary future before ~him, Mr. Troup thought what a re-
lief it would be if he could add one more to their silent
number. But to those who consider death a privilege,
life is generally the boon which is given in ~ts stead, and
to live was now the fate of Mr. Troup.
At length the last' ~ad visit was over, and without, a
word, father and mother walked slowly out from atnoug

279

.273

AT LAsT.


274                  AT LAST.

their dead, and going down the lawn, entered the car-
riage, which had been waiting for them some hours.
A group of faithful servants stood around the carriage
holding bundles, while the tears trickled down their
dusky cheeks, for they loved their owners with a child-
like devotion that was born of their very dependence.
Placing the bundles in the ~carriage, several asked at
once:
"Mistis, can I do anything else for you?"
"No, thank you;" tearfully.
Then several others said eagerly:
"Marster, is there anything else you wish done?"
"Nothing," he answered; and with a hasty "good-
by" for one and all, he said, "Drive on," and the corn-
inand was obeyed.
The house was bathed in a warm April sun, but the
shutters were all closed, the doors were all locked, and it
wore the dismal appearance of some grand mausoleum.
And might it not be considered one? for if it ,did not
contain dead bodies, it ~was the sepulchre of buried hopes
-6f dreams born but to perish, and of unholy ambitions
doomed to be fatal to him who nurtured. them.
The grand old oaks cast their shadows long and dark,
for the sun was low down the sky; the birds twittered
merrily as they coq.uetted with their mates; the violets
peeped timidly out from the grass; but the beauties were
all lost upon the late master and mistress, for their
hearts wer&amp; breaking.
Slowly, sadly, as if they had been following in the
wake of some funeral train, did they drive down the
aveiThe and out at the lodge-gate, without one parting
look-for the wife was weeping upon her husband's

AT LAST.                  275
breast, and his hat was drawn down over his eyes to con~
coal the tears which trickled down his ch6eks.
Thus, "good-by" to the "Manor," and the question
naturally arises, "Will we ever visit it again?"

b


OVE1~ THE SEA.              277

276                ovia~ TUE SEA.

CHAPTER XLI.
OVER TUE SEA.
~ COWARDS the end of May, a beautiful girl sat
upon the deck of the Nautilus, which was
anchored in sight of Liverpool.
The scene was one of marvellous beauty; but she was
not thinking of the docks towards which her glorious
eyes were directed, nor of the city of manufactories,
nor of the myriads of white sails that were visible, nor
of the tiny boats that studded the Mer~ey, nor of iHitti
who guided their ship into safety; but with the sea-
breeze kissing her cheeks, she was dreaming of the Old
World-that Mecca for which her soul had longed from
childhood, and wondering if her feet were at last about
to press its sacred soil; for in the moment of realization,
the thought se~ ed too beautiful to be true.
upon the lox~er deck, the gentlemen looked after the
luggage, and always anxious to ~avoid a crush, their fair
travelliug~cO1flPafliOn awaited them above.
The past had no part or place in her reflections, and
she wa~ almost sorry when the American Ambassador to
the Court of St. James said:
"Come, Gertrude, it is oar time now."
"And the Captain is hurrying us like everything, for
fear he ,will not get us all landed before dark," added
Paul; and while he gathered up her wraps, she arose,
and giving her hand to her uncle, descended with him to

the tug that was to transfer them to the shore once
more. For the trio were none others than our old friends,
Mr. Reuben flail, Gertrude, and Paul.
When last we saw them, they were upon the eve of a
new Presidential inauguration. Well, the inauguration,
with all of its usual accompaniments, wa~ now a thing of
the past, and the honor of representing the United States
Government as Minister to England, having been ten-
dered to and accepted by the "Sage of Pleasant' Re-
treat," he and suite were now en route to their new
destination.
Gertrude was still to occupy the post of private secrc~
tary, while Paul weut as an attack6.
The whole party had paid a flying visit to dear old
Georgia for the piirpose of saying "good-by" to the
loved ones, and at the suggestion ~f Mr. Hall, Mrs. Law-
rence had rented her home in L-., in order to take
charge of affairs at "Pleasant Retreat." Many were 'the
people who marvelled at the good fortune that had be-
fallen the "dressmaker's daughter," and all the "Sweet-
hearts, Trays, Blanches," et id omne ~'enu~, sneered
~at the idea of the Government sending that parvenu,
Reuben Hall, to represent The American aristocracy (?)
abroad.
how sadly times have changed!!! Then, they wanted
a gentleman; now, that is not considered a necessary
requisite.
Then, theywanted honesty in high places~.; now, unless
a man knows how to stealL-.-beg pardon-unless he under-
stands making the Government his debtor, he' might as
well h'ang his harp upon the willow, and ~retire to the
shades of private life. But no matter what the dear


people wanted in those days, they got whatever the
occupant of the White House gave them, for he was a
man of his own mind, and not to be bought. So to Eng-
land the Hon. Reuben Hall went, and if he could not
opew and eat a soft-boiled egg in the shell quite as
artistically as one of the "bloods" might have done, he
did more, for he performed the duties of diylornat with
credit to himself and honor to his country.
After an unsatisfactory night at Liverpool, our travellers
took the express train to London, and passing through a
highly cultivated country, reached the city of fogs the
same night.
The term of the officiating Minister not having yet ex-
pired, Mr. Hall contemplated a visit on the Continent;
but as Gertrude had not encouraged the trip very much,
and as l~e found himself daily more and more dependent
upon this truly noble woman, lie thought he would con-
s4t her once more; and abide by her decision. So,' a
day or' two after their arrival in London, he said:
"Well, Gertrude, what do you say to a trip on the Con-
tinent?"
"Ii leave it entirely to you, uncle;" rather indifferently.
"Which means, ii suppose, II don't care' to go, dear
vncle, but will do as you wish."
"Not at all, for I certainly hope to visit Italy before
we return."
"Italy?" said the uncle in surprise.
"Yes. y nOt?"
"Nothing," he answered smilingly, " only Pm surprised
,you did not select Paris, for I thought that was considered
the women's Paradise."
"And why?

278

C( I'm sure I don't know! Enlighten me! ".
"That they may dress, ride in the Boi8, and listen to
gallant speeches from flippant, soulless Frenchmen."
"You are rather severe upon the race of cavaliers;"
but without noticing his reply, sl~ said, with much
earnestness:
"Uncle, I have told you before, and I tell you again,
that it is my desire to study and know the English char-
acter, for I would like to know what secret power it is
which makes them so vastly superior to all other nations.
For this purpose I should like to spend most of
in England; an'd I assure you, I wouldn't give Qn~d~yiu
London, with all its traditional fog, for forty da~)sf~pent
in the whirl of the mad metropolis."
Always anxious to draw her out, so that he might
know time exact motives which guided her life and act~ns,
Mr. Hall said:
"And why do you wish to study the English character,
Gertrude?"
"That I may imitate them," was the frank reply.
"What! are you not satisfied with the Amnei'ican mode
of doing things?"
"I think, considering our age, that we have accom-
plished wonders; and judging the future by the past, I do
not doubt but that we are destined to become the grand:
est nation on the globe; but there is one great defect in
our national character."
"What is that?"
"We live for the present and not for the future.
Whatever 'we do, we do in a hurry. We go to work as
if we had only a day to live, while aim Englishman is as
deliberate as if he' had a thousand years before him."

278                OVER 'TilE SEA.                                                       OVU~ THE SEA.

'279

I


"Couldn't have been better said, if II had said it my.
self."
"Ah I you vain man"
"But what do you propose doing, Gertrude; enter-
ing Parliament or becoming Lord ~' quizzi-
cally.
"1 propose doing nothing of which you shall ever be
ashamed," answering the, first question without. noticing
the last one; "a,~ perhaps, who knows,. II may do some-
thing of which you may be very proud."
"Why, my dear child, I am so proud of you now that
I can scarcely walk th~ streets of London, and every day
I think it's a thousand pities you are not a boy. You
talk and think like 'a man; and indeed, you are less like
a woman than any woman I ever saw..
a What do you know of women, pray?"
"Much more than you have any idea,", he said, with 'a
sigh; and the sad expression . upon his face recalled that
mn~rnimig of long ago,, when he told her how utterly and
hopelessly he. had loved.
'tell granting that you do know all about them, I
must you, uncle, that I do not appreciate that last com-
pliment as much as you might suppose, for I have no de*
sire to be called ' strong-minded,' but a sincere prefer-
ence to be known as a most womanly woman."
Struck with her. good sense on this subject, as well as
on all others, he said:
"Well, anything that suits you suits., inc. But suppose
we return~ to. the 'subject; ~f the Continent now I"
"Yes, do; that's the subject I am, interested, in," said
Paul, who entered. just. in ~~time for .the last remark:
"when do we leave for ~ 6ette &amp;a~we?"

'S

280%                                                                                    OVER TILE SEA.

28t

* ~' Another American gone crazy about Paris," said
Gertrude, with pretty disdain.
"I'm sure I think the cause justifies the craziness. But
whendo we go?"
"I leave it to Gertrude."
"Any time that suits -you, dear uncle, suits me."
"Very well then, as I cannot leave conveniently after
I have once entered upon my duties, and as I need the
recreation, the 'sooner we go the better."
"Your wishes, withoi~t any reasons, are sufficient, dear,
uncle, and I can be ready to leave within an hour."
"Spoken like your own sweet self' and rewarded ac-
cordingly;" giving her a kiss.
"how I do wish I ~was 'somebody's uncle," said Paul,
with a look of envy at a cruel demonstration which often
tantalized him.
"You see, Paul, age has its compensations?"
"Yes, I see it, to my sorrow."
"And youth its tortures?" asked the kissed young lady
mischievously.
"flow cruel, and how very womanly to spoil all the
pleasure by such a mean little speech," said the uncle,
quite disconcerted, while Paul had a good laugh at his
expense, which almost repaid him for not having had a
kiss.
N,
Here the conversation ended, and if the trio did not
leave 'for the Continent within an hour, they did go within
a few days, and there we shall Ieave~ them for the pres.
cut, with our very' best Wishes for a Urn voyage.


e

282
CHAPTER XLII.
HUsH I I I
READ softly I leave the gay world, quit the
bright sunshine, and come with us to the chain..
ber of death, for it is there we all must come
at last.
We know you scarcely have the time to spare, we feel
that you follow us reluctantly, for an impatient frown
rests upon youl'. brow, and down in your heart a voice
whispers, "Life is too short for such doleful scenes as
this"
But We will not detain you. long, for the Angel of
Death is in cruel haste to bear our sweet flower away,
and even now is clutching her in his icy grasp. What
was wealth-what were prosperity, luxury, friends, es~
tates worth in that hour?
The frantic parents would have thrown all their treas-
ures into the yawning grave, and like Curtius, would
have cast themselves in, if the chasm would close over
them alone, and spare their child. They said to~ them
selves, "We are old; our race is nearly run; take us, and
leave our darling;" 'but Cod knew best, and he took the
flower in its springtime.
How calm and beautiful she looks! and her little one
~ieeps as quietly in thi crib over which "IMlamnmy"
watches, as if it would not be motherless in a few more
houvs.

.. ntre!!!

t

I

283

Poor Mrs. Daring sits on one side the bed, altdi~
lately wiping away her tears, and stroking the pale,
white brow of her child; Clifford kneels on the other side,
rubbing the transparent little hands, thus trying to bring
back their warmth; but the blood is settling around the I
nails, and They are growing colder each moment; this
task is in vain; and the father sits with his back to this
scene, crushed and heart-broken.
The chamber is darkened to keep out the noonday gnu;
but there is still light enough for us to see the sweet res-
ignation upon the brow of the little blue-eyed wife; the
agonized expression upon the face of the mother, the
dejection and despair of the father, and the utter contri-
tion and self-reproach which bows the hfisband in heart-
brokemi humility to the earth.
That last hour is scarcely mere trying to the one who
is entering upon the dark Valley of the Shadow of Death
thati it is to those who are left behind; for even if we
have been kind and loving and attentive, it will be an
hour of suffering; but when we have neglected and
slighted the on.~ who is going from us forever, when we
feel that perhaps we have broken the heart that is throb-
bing its last throbs, self-reproaches will accuse us bitterly,
and when it is too late, we will plead: "Ol~, God, give
her back to me! spare her, and I will try and make her
happy." Thus did Clifford feel, and thus will others of us
feel, one day, when the leaf is folded back, and we see
writteim upon time page of life the record of duties unper-
forirmed. The dear old doctor was there, too, and to the
ott-repeated question of the agonized niotimer:
"Doctor, can you not save her?" he said, at last:
"She mrtay possible inger until night."


284                  ~usu!1I
Then he came into the room and felt the puke of his
"little Jeannie" again, and turning to him, she said,
calmly:
"flow long, doctor?"
With a sigh he turned away without replying; then she
said again:
"Don't deceive me, doctor. I know.I am dying, and I
have a reason for asking how long I have to live." her
voice was very weak but it- did not falter; for she was
not afraid to die. Still the doctor stood with his back
to her and made no reply; then she said again:
"Doctor, come here;" and when he came and took the
thin, little hand that she extended to him, she sa~id once
more, "Why do you not answer me? Youi never treated
me so before, and it may be the lasI~ request I shall ever
make of you; then tell me, how long can II possibly live?"
INo longer able to resist her pleadings, he said hurriedly
but solemnly:
"Possibly until night;" and pressing her hand, wali~ed
slowly out. of the room to hide his tears.
"Then, dear mother, will you and father and 'Main-
my,' please leave me alone with Clifford for a little
while?"
"Oh, my child, don't send us away," pleaded the dis-
tracted mother, as she yielded to the first great outburst
~f grief.
"It will be only for a little while, mother."
"But in tha~t little while you might~-~----;" but h~r lips
refused to speak the dreaded word.
"Yes, dear mother, I might die then; but your staying
will not k9ep. me,~ and2 as IL have only so short a time, grant

JiIrSH!!!                          285.

71

me this last request, and leave me with my husband for a
few moments."
At length, yielding to this heart-rending appeal, the
mother . kissed her one little treasure, as if parting from
her forever, and was then led away by Mamnmy and
"fatlaer," while their sobs filled the room. Reaching the
door, she turned, screamed, and rushing back, folded her
child in her arms once more, and kissing her frantically, -
said:
"Don't be long, darling; don't keep mother away;"
and with the assurance of
"INo, mother, I will not," she went weeping from the
room.
Turning to her husband then, Virginia said:
"Close the door, Clifford, and hand me nmy writing-
desk."
She was very much agitated, and her poor little broken
heart was palpitating fearfully with the exertion of this-
last effort.
Fortunately, Clifford did not notice it; and complying
with her request, he resumed his seat, and silently awaited,
with an ill-defined dread, something, he knew not what.,
Forgetting for the moment how sacredly the desk was
kept locked, the wee wife sipiled and said faintly: "11
forgot it was locked. Please, Clifford, look in my top
bureau drawer, in the right~.hand corner,- and you'll find
a little key tied with a piece of blue ribbon."
The key was found, the desk unlocked, and taking from -
it with trembling fingers a letter which was sealed and
addressed, she said falteringly:
"Clifford, in this letter, you will find my-dying---.-. -
request."


9

mtrsn!!!

ILts!!!

286

A struggle for breath, and an effort to lorce back the
tears which Would come, made her hesitate; but it was
only for a few minutes, for she was determined that nodi-
ing should 'keep her from the fulfilment of this last s~d
duty. Clifford looked the picture of despair as he sat
with his head bowed upon both hands, and only God
above knew what remorse filled his heart in that painful
*    hour.
A few moments of rest, and the dying wife continued:
"One year from to-day I wish you to open this letter
*     and ~do what I have here asked you 'to do.
It is nothing but what you can do, and I feel sure-d
hope-I pray-it is ~oinething whioli will make you
happy."
At the word "happy," he trembled visibly, and in-
stinctively he felt that his secret had been. discovered.
"In it also you will find the name I desire our little
one to bear, ~h~~ld e live."
Then drawing his ha ds gently from his face, she p1a~ed
the letter therein, and aid earnestly:
"I have one other request to malie, Clifford;" to which
he sighed, but said, nothing.
"I asl~ you to promise me that you will never take an-
other ddnk-"
A long pause followed this request, and the expression
upon the thin, pale face of the leader deepened to pain-
ful anxiety as she waited; then she said again:
"Do you promise ? "
Another agonizing suspense, and then the awful silence
was broken by the manly tones , of her husband, and her
face became radiant with hbpe, as he said firmly:
L

287

"I do 1" for she knew his "word was his bond," and
she knew he would keep his promise.
"I have not lived in vain, then," she said, laying her
head back on the pillow, and closing her eyes in utter ex-
haustion; "and iiow, I can die in peace." Then, after a
few moments of rest, she opened her eyes and said:
"Draw back the curtains and let the sunlight come in,
Clifford-and call father ~nd mother--and let me kiss our
little one once more--" for her shortness of breath and her
failing sti~ength told her she was sinking rapidly.
Ignoring her requests, and forgetting everything but the
dying woman before him, he crie&amp;with a voice whose
agony pierced her heart:
"Oh, Virginia, my wife; I cannot let you die, until I
ask you to forgive me;" and lifting her fragile form in his
arms, he pressed her to his heart, where she nestled her
head, and said:
"Forgive you, dear-Clifford?"
"My God-yes-forgive me!" but her head drooped,
her eyes closed, her lips faltered: "Mother-.~father-Olif-
ord--b~by," and then-she was no more.
"Virginia 1" came in one wild, despairing cry; it pen-
etrated the house, but it could not awakeii the dead. The
door opened, the ~frantic parents rushed in, followed by
the doctor and a score of faithful servants; but it was
too late; no restoratives, no tears, no wailing could re-
call her now, for she was safely anchored in th6 haven of
eternal rest. Was &amp;ver heroism more grand-was ever
martyrdom more complete?
4


a

IN ASHES.

ThN ASHES.

288

289

CHAPTER XLIII.

IN ASHES.

URNED to the ground! I"
"What?"
"Why, the 'Manor!' Had you not heard it?"
"No; how did it happen?"
"No one knows; but it is whispered that the old Troup
negroes did it!"
"What for?"
"To revenge themselves upon their new master for his
brutal treatment to them; and by the way, I hear he
narrowly escaped with his life, and is quite badly burned."
7 "Pity he hadn't been burned to death, for that is too
K. good a death for such ~a brute as he is. Why, do you
know that that man has been working those negroes not
only from daylight to dark, but upon moonlight nights
makes them pick cotton until midnight."
"Impossible! The reports must be exaggerated !"
"I have seen it myself, and I hear that he has reduced
their rations to barely enough of the coarsest diet to sus-
tam life, and that he allows them to go in such rags and
tatters that their nakedness is not hid."
"A sad change from the treatment of the Troups, for
in their day their negroes were pampered and indulged
almost to idleness. Who is this ilammerly, anyhow?"
"A mere adventurer; no body knows who or where

he came from, and to wind up with, a most unscrupulous
money-getter?"
" Such mcii are not fit to have the control of human
beings, for they do not understand th~ difference between
~nen and brutes ; both are alike driven for the almighty
dollar."
"Yes; I am more and more convinced that none but
Southern people who have been accustomed to them, but
more especially, gentlemen, should have the control of
negroes. For instance, take a man who, all his life, has
been accustomed to doing menial labor, and he will make
I the most unfeeling tyrant, should he ever have any one
under him in the same capacity. In other Words, he has
no sympathy with the class from which he caine. On the
other hand, take a gentleman, and he will treat his slaves,
* with kindness and consideration, simply because they are
in his power."
Thus talked two of the neighbors at. Tate's, a cross-
roads store near the "Manor," the day ~mfter the fire.
It was now October, four months since the occurrence
of the sad events recorded in the last chapter, and as we
see, the cruelties of the new master of the "Manor" had
met with a terrible, but justly deserved retribution-for
no man has any right, morally speaking, to grind another
man into the earth, simply because he can ~do it-and we
do not doubt but that this act of cruel injustice will meet
with its reward in a~orda1)ce with the Divine precept:
"As ye mete, so shall it be meted to you again."
But Ilammerly, like other upstarts who suddei~ly and
unscrupulously grow rich, began to appreciate this fact
just one day too'late, for the "Manor" was in a~lmes, and
no amount of penitence could~~ bring back the treasures
13

ii

I j
S
*              'ii


290                  flf ASHES.                                                    A BI?~ER BThUGGLE.              291

that lay melted amidst die ruins. Will he now grow
wiser or better?
Tens to one, he will become more hardened, and if he            £
is not too cowardly, will make the poor creatures who                      CHAPTER       XL
are in his power pay the penalty of their rashness, forget~.
ting that the Lord has said: "Vengeance is mine;. I A BITTER STRUGGLI
will repay."
OVERTY without remorse IE
poverty with remorse would
the strotigest.
Down in a back street, in the city o
rickety, old4ashioned, shabby hous
though it hadn't been painted for th
lived ~be once aristocratic Troups.
Excessively plain though as the i
thoroughly neat and bespoke refine
very little furniture, and as it had b
their daughters, no two pieces were ~
became quite presentable under ~the pi
Troup frequently gave it.
A few family pictures adorned th
of flowers here and there seemed t~
upon which they smiled.
had the consciences of these way-i
at ease, they might have been happy, f
home, for all the world knows that
happiness. It may purchase the pleas
hour, but it cannot silence the accusat
life, or bid the ghost of painful memo
At first, Mr. Troup tried with coi
to stem the current that seemed be~
8tri~etiOn~, and some few f~ithfuI fif

IV.
hard to bear, ~iit
tax the strength of
f M.----',in a little
~, which looked as
~e last half century,
interior was, it was
meut. There was
een contributed by
dike; but even this
fishingg which Mrs.
3 walls, and a vase
~ mock the ~nisery
worn pilgrims been
wen in thiB humble
money cannot buy
ures of 4he p~s8~ug
ions of ~' misspent
ries depart.
nmend~ble energy
bring him on to de.
~tids rallied to 'his


292             A BITTER STRUGGLE.

A BITTER STRUGGLE.

eupport.~ But this did not last long; for, mentally, he was
pursued with an avenging Nemesis, which threatened to
destroy his reason, and physically lie had not the cour~
age to begin a new life in his old age.
What, then should he do but seek oblivion in some
potent panacea, which should drown the pangs of re
morse that haunted him day and night?
This Was easily found in whiskey or brandy, and
opium; and now, every dollar that could be donated, or
begged, or screwed out of some one else, went to pur.
chase the only antidote which could soothe the conscience~
stricken old man. He had sold his daughters to the high..
est bidders, who now in return ignored and lbft him to
his hapless fate, because he was indebted to them. lie
had taught his only son that no11e~se ollige was of more
importance than the commandments of God, and together
they were the murderers of the gentle wife who slept
beneath the sod.
lie had made money his idol, he had set God at
defiance, and 110W lie was reaping the.whirlwind which
his own hands had scattered abroad.
He was irritable and fractious beyond conception, and
wh~n the influence of the palliatives was dying out in his
system, he would scream:
"More, more, Mary 1" as a starviiig man pleads for
t one morsel which is to rescue him from starvation.
*Yielding. to these excruciating importunities, the pa-
tient, heart-broken wife would administer dose after
dose,' until reason was dethroned and memory silenced,
and when her poor wreck of a ~husband was at last
quieted, she would kneel do~u and pray to God for help.
* The son had nothing but ~ small income from a pre.

293

cax ions practice, most of which had passed into other
hands during his illness and absence, but every dollar
that was not actually needed to keep body and soul to-
gether, was at once conveyed to his mother.
The daughters occasionally sent a donation from their
own private purses, but the combined sums from every
source were insufficient to supply the expensive luxur-.
ics (?~ whjch lulled the conscience of the father and the
credit of the honorable gentleman being a thing of the
past, of course the cash had to be paid for every pur-
chase.
Add to this expense, fuel, provisions, house-rent, and
servants' hire, besides all the little details of housekeep-.
ink, and it will be easy to se~ how much faster the money
went out than it came in; f6r there w~s no one to turn
the wheel of necessity, and yet it kept turning all the time.
Too proud to let he~rVhildren know she was suffering,
Mrs. Troup from tiii~ to time disposed of her jewels,
then her laces, then what little silver was left, and still
he cried:
"More, more," until the wretched wife was almost
frantic, and until she feared he must and would die.
But it seemed the design of Provideii. e that he should
live, and that he should suffer, and no earthly power
could save him from drinking the same bitter draughts
which lie had held so mercilessly to the lips of others.
Friends walked by on th~ othei side, relatives ignored,
children deserted, and the heart-broken ~wife was left
alone in 11 er anguish to minister to the wants of him for
whom she would gladly have borne every sorrow.' But
that was not possible, an&amp; so the days went wearily by,
and'while the old man raved and cried for

t

292


294             A nI'tTER STRUGGLE.
"~1Iore, more!" the wrinkles deepened upon the
mother's brow, her hair grew white, irnd with listless
hands she sat rocking to and fro, or else watching by
the couch of the loved one faithfully and s1ecpIessly-~-a
perfect picture of resignation to the will of God.
~he did not murmur. She knew there could be noth~
ing worse jn store for her, and with lie~ heart draped in
mourning, and her house wreathed with cypress, she
passed silently dowu the dark and cheerless Yale of :Mis-
ei'y, which, alas! could end only in the grave.

BACK IN LONDON.           295

CHAPTER XLV.1
BACK IN LONDON.
lUll the early days of October, our tourists re-
turned from the Continent to London, and settled
themselves comfortably for the winter.
TL~ Ambassador, being much occupied with affairs of
State, placed his private secretary under the special care
of his attach, giving him positive orders to "show her
everything in London, without reserve.~~
In obeying this comman~1, Pud placed himself and all
his leisure time entirely at Gertrude's disposal, and it is
scarcely necessary to add that he was only too happy to be
so enslaved.
Thus day after day went by, and together they visited
the worl&amp;renowned Westminster; together they trod the
gloomy cells of the tragic Tower; together they listened
to the speeches of the Lords and Crnimoners; together
they were thrilled by the music of the finest operas; to-
gether they dived into dens of poverty, and rescued its
wretched victims from the jaws of death; together they
went everywhere, saw eVerything; and is it strange that
Paul became more and mere infatuated with his beau~
tiful companion, as time drifted on?
Pu t he never told her of this great love; and thinking
he ha entirely recovered from his past fancy, Gertrude
treated him in an unceremQnious, confidential way, which
but se ved to increase his devotion.


4                                                                                                                                                                                     4

296

JIA CIt IN LONDON.

BACK IN L0NDON~

She was his thought by day andYight; he cared fo~' no
other society, and his world was centre in her.
He was an enthusiast over her music; lie studied
Finch with her; together they read all manner of
books; and it was the double effort of his life to antici-
pate her wishes, and to do whatever lie imagined would
give her pleasure.
Eaiiy in the season, Mr. Hall said:
"And you think you can resist the fascinations of
London society, Gertrude?"
"Indeed I can, uncle, and without an effort, for I do
not intend ~to be tempted."
"Alit but you will reserve no credit for resisting a
temptation of which you know nothing'"
"Well, then, I will agree to attend just ~uc1i enter-
tainments as you suggest."
"Suppose I should be very exacting in my sugges-
tions? ",
"But IL do not fear that, when you knows well how I
feel oii the subject."
"You are quite right, child; for I am sure I would be
the last person in the world to give you a moment of
discomfort."
"I suspect that most of my dissipation will be confined
to the opera, whither Paul has kindly consented to take
me whenever I wish to go;" and looking smilingly up,
the referred-to young gentleman said:
"Certainly, with only too much pleasure."
Then, mischievously, Mr. Hall said:
"Gertrude, I declare I think it is very selfish of you
to monopolize Paul so. He must be bored to death."

/

"Are you?" she said, wfth the least bit of coquetry,
and a smile no man on earth could resist.
"Of course," he answered; but by the tone of voice she
knew well enough he meant "Of course not."
"Ppromised to present him to the daughters of~rny
friend, Lord Ilampden; but I suppose I shal~~ve to ask
your perrriission, or wait, at least, until you ca~ release
him from his numerous engagements with you."
"He is at liberty to go whenever he chooses, and I am
quite sure I have no power of keeping him, even if I. were
selfish enough to desire to dQ so."
her face was the least bit troubled, and she felt a little
yiqu~ at the idea of being a bore. What woman
wouldn't;? especially a pretty one.
Seeing this, Paul hastened to say:
"Gertrude, I wouldn't resign the pleasure of attending
you wherever you wished to go, for all the daughters (.)f
all the lords in England."
He did not mean to be so warm, but his words could
nQt be recalled now, and as they brought the blushes to
Gertrude's cheeks, they sent a thrill of joy to the Ainbas-
sador's heart. Why? We know, you and I, for we
know that he had not yet- abandoned the old dream of
more than a year ago; but in their innocence, hisprot~g6s
failed to see that he was only drawing them out, and try-
ing, if possible, to sound the secret depths of their respec-
tive hearts.
"how very complimentary you are to the English no-
bility I." said Mr. ilall, after -a good laugh at Paul's en-
thusiasm.
"Yes; considering how much they value the opinions
of Americans, they wohld, doubtless, feel very much-

297


2~8             BACK IN LONDON.                                             flACK IN LONt)ON.         299

slighted to know that an American prefers one of his own
coimtrywomen without any 'blood,' to all the hereditary
aristocracy of 2i~ngland."
"Doubtless," answered Mr. Hall, with a poor attempt
to eoiiceal the sympathetic smile which these ~words
elicited.
"213ut I insist, gaul, that you do as my ,unc~e desires,
and I will not go out with you again until you have paid
your respects to 'the daughters of my Lord Ilampden.'"
This was said with such determination, that the gentle-
men understood the ftctt wa~~ be obeyed, and laughing,
Mr. Hall said:
"So ho, my young man, you have your orders."
To which, with an air of utter resignation, and evi-
dently wishing the ~ daughters of my Lord Ilampden"
at the bottom of the sea, Paul said;
"When shall we make the propQsed visit?"
"We will have to write and consult the pleasui'e of
their ladyships," answered the Ambassador, who seemed
quite amused to see his young friend so tensed.
"Their ladyships," said Paul with a sneer; and cer-
tainly, if the Misses llainpden had known how they were
discussed by this obscure American, they would have died
of auger, or else closed their aristocratic doQrs ag~iiist
the vile intruder forever.
How many of the dear creat~ires share a similar fate to
that of the Misses Ilampden, and how many poor men
are dragged to see women whom they do not care to
know, is really melancholy to contemplate; but we sup-
pose, so long as the ladies remain in blissful ignorance, it
does not matter?
There's one ~cons~lation, t~ngh, for femiuiuity in this

affair, for the p~8tprandia1 part of the feast belongs ex-
clusively to their sex; and, believe us, it is not always
daintily served ~in Iiorno~opathic doses, like caf~-noir. The
quality may 1~e the same, for it will be strong, but the
quantity will lastly outweigh that of the antidote, which
rectifies a little over-indulgence.
Thus it is barely possible that while some notorious
lady-kilier is rehearsing before his mirror the very looks,
the ~vords, the attitudes, which his ~Pity tells him so
overwhelmingly captivated Miss 13 ,that that same
Miss B-- and her "dear Elvira," upstairs in their
wrappers, shivering over a handful of coals, are at the
same hour picking him to pieces in genuine feminine
style-which means, not to leave a feather on his back.
So things are aI)out equal in this world, and after all, Uie
law of compensation seems more, evenly balanced than~
the scales of just~ce.
Such conversations as these were daily held in the
home of Mr. hall, over which his lovely niec~ presided
with so much grace and dignity; and we doubt if there
was a happier fireside to be found in the great, throbb4ing,
pulsing city of London.
'The Ambassador had long since gone to hisAuties, and
fulfilling an engagement, Gertiude and Paul went to
visif some wretchedly poor and suffering people, in whose
behalf this noble girl was interesting herself.
Upon their return, as there was no special writing, to
be done that day, they sat down before a cosey fire, to
continue the reading of that fascinating book, that beau-
tiful dream, that romance without a parallel-" Contarini
Fleming.".
Paul's voice was rich ~&amp;nd full, and we do not think


800              BACK IN i~o~uo~.                                                   BACK IN LONDON.              3011

that D'Israeli himself would have objected to the manner
jn which the young attacke' rendered him, as his voice
faltered over these words:
" 'It was sunset. I got out of the carriage, and stole
into the gardens of the villa unperceived. I coi~dd. see
no lights in the building. From this I inferred that
Alceste was, perhaps, oply paying a farewell visit to her
father's house. I ran along thQ terrace; I observed no
one. I gained the chapel; I instinctively trod very
lightly. I glanced in at the window. I perceived a form
kneeling before the altar. There was a single candle.
The kneeling figure leaned back with clasped hands.
The light fell upon the countenance. I beheld the face
of Al5este Contarini. I opened the door gently, but it
roused her. I entered.
I come,' I said, 'to claim my bride.' She screamed,
she jumped upon the altar, and clung to the great
ebony cross. lit was the same figure and the same atti~
tude that I beheld in my vision in the church. 'Al-
ceste,' IL said, 'you are mine. There is no power in
heaven or earth, there is no infernal influence that can
preVent you from being mine. You are as much part of
me as this arm with which I now embrace you.' I tore
her from the cross, I carried her fainting form out of the
chapel.
"'The moon had risen. I rested on a bank, and watched
with blended passion and anxiety her ~closed eyesl She
was motionless, and her white arms drooped down appar-
ently without life. She breathed, yes! she breathed.
That large eye opened, and darkened into light. She
gazed around with an air ~of vacancy. A smile, a faint,
6weet smile played upon her face. She slightly stretched

her beautiful frame, as if again to feel her existence, and
moved her beautiful arms, as if to try whether she yet
retained power over her limbs. Again she smiled, and
exclaiming.' Contarini ! threw them around my neck.
"'Oh! my Alceste, my long-promised Alceste, you are
indeed inihe.'
"' I am yours, Contarkii. Do with me what you like.'~~


80%

ArnELsS I

CHAPTER XLVI.

AImLES!

+ISTLESSLY rising up in the morning simply be-
cause it was the custom-going mechanically to
perform the same duties day after day--silently
turning away from intercourse with his fellow-men-ly-
ing down at night to remorse and sleeplessness-pale and
haggard, with now and then a hectic flush upon his cheeks
and a hollow cough which made one0 shudder, do yOul
recognize the pictures Would you dream that this was
the happy, buoyant, proud, and ambitious Clifford Troup,
to whom we introduced you a little less' than -two years
ago? Well may you exclaim: "What a wreck !" for
the friends who saw him daily could scarcely believe it
possible that even the combination of mental and physi-
cal disease could have made such inroads in so brief a
space.' True, the time' had been short, but the work was
effectual.
His arm, which had. never healed, was- of course an
additional drain upon a system already' enervated, and
since the hereditary foe of his ancestors had assailed him,
he succumbed rapidly to the .combined ravages of a
"rooted borrow " and an incurable disease. His physi-
cian ordered him to Florida, but he always ansivered:
"It is only for a little while, doctor; and besides, I
have business which must be attended to."

tus, lie gave himself a living sacrifice to that father
wh~ had immolated him upon the altar of pride, upon the
ide~ of Aoblesse obligJe.
Strange caprice of fortune, was it noti
.lSut for the simultaneous assault of both misfortune and
disease, it is possible Clifford might have bound up his
wounds and presented a smiling face to the world, as so
many others do.
As we have seen, though, one unfortunate event fol-
lowed so closely after time other, that lhe had not time to
recover from one before some new calamity was upon
him; or at~ least he regarded them as calamities, and so
will we all consider the inevitable trials of life, until we
learn to bow meekly, and say: " Thy will be done."
SHis physician time and again suggested a stimulant,
but faithful to the promise made to the dead, he told him
he could nof take it.
" But you must," said the doctor ; " I presci'ibe it as a
"Itven granting you do, doctor, I cannot take it !"
Thus ended every discussion on the subject; and tort-
ured| by suffering, this man, whose hopes were over,
whose life was wrecked in the spring-time, returned
each day with weary but unflagging devotion to his self-
imposed miartyrdom. lHe had rented the cottage of lIM rs.
Lawrence, and thei-e he lived solitary and alone. Why

AnMTs$!

403

po you know what this business was? It was to work
btlp he might rescue his mother from the hardships of
-po rty, and in order to supply the extravagant' demands
of depraved habit which had fastened itself "upon his


34~Ani~turss!

he had done it he cquld not tell, ~nd that it was an tin.
wise step will at once be seen; for the memory (Yf happy
by-gones ~which it constantly aroused, ~mly rendered the
present darker, and added fresh thorns to the crown which
daily pierced his aching brow. One day, however, he was
aroused from this apathy by the news of ~irs, Dearing's
death, and in the same letter which hronght this sad in-
telligence, was a request from Mr. .Uearing's lawyer for
the son-in-law to come and look after the "old man,"
whom the writer said he "feared ~ ould not survive his
wife long." Then he added: "The po~ mother died of a
broken heart, if there is such a disease', never liaviiig loft
~Xer room since Virginia's death, an I ref using utterly to
be comforted for her lost lamb. The old man sits fr9rn
morning until night in one spot, wth his head resting
upon his hands, which are folded ou Us cane, and some-
times for days does not tas4e food. The baby, under
Marnmy's care, thrives well, and is tht~ only creature about
the place that seems tp have any life left."
Thus two more beings drifted dowii the stream of life,
aimless and purposeless, and who shall say what is to be
the end.
Upon his arrival at "Mossy Creek," Glifford found thb
old man in such a state of imbecility that he at once
assumed the reins of government, and it was well for all
parties concerned that he did. That it met the approval
of his father-inlaw, was evident; foi whenever Clifford
was leaving the house, he wonPd look up, and calling to
him, say:
"Don't go away," and when assured that he would not,
down again the gray head would go upon the hands, and
the monotonous life of this poor, bereft old creature

804

would continue its aimless pulsations. This new life
was a change for Clifford, and while the place constantly
recalled the most painful memories, which he would
have buried forever out of sight, yet the society of his
little one, to whoiii lie was as yet a stranger, was, a
soothing balm for him, and his poor gashed and bleeding
heart began to expand once more wjth the love which
hi3 little "Birdie" called into existence.
She was now eight or nine months old, and soon came
to know her father well, so that she would cry when he
went away, and her blue eyes would sparkle, her baby
lips would smile, and she would hold out her little arms
to go to him upon his return.
The abject loneliness of heart whicix be had suffered
was gone now, and the sweet knowledge that he was
loved by his own flesh and blood brought, once inoi'e, the
light to his eyes, and filled his being with a strange, new
thrill of joy. It was not the happiness of other days,
when life was just opening before 8 rose-tinted future,
but it was the thankfulness that there was anything left
to a heart which had abandoned itself to~ the sati fate it
could not avert.. In these days, he thought he should like
to live for this little one, so that he might shield her
from the rude blasts whkh be feared would assail her.
And so night after night, when he laid her in her little
crib, and kissed her until ~he would ~~ry out and light off
the kisses with her tiny fists, lie would go down upon his
knees, and pray to Go&amp; for her welfare and happiness..
Then he would beg so humbly to be spared to rear her
properly, and ih his heart he vowed, by the ineinor~i of
the mother whom he had so deeply il)jIU'ed, to devote

AnMLEss!

306


(
AIMLESS!                                                    DAY ];Y PA
what had been an aimless life to the child she had left  j
behind.
Then he would lean over the crib and kiss dear little
"Birdie" again and again, and murmur~ "God bless you,                        CHAPTER X
my little darling."
DAY BY D.4
T was a very quiet affair
friends-a breakfasV~-a
~ arid then a continuation
they had led for the past year,
secretary of the American Amb&amp;
Maxwell, and the attaok4 of the
vidual was the proudest bridegro
do~aii~1 absolutely whistled a
he was so happy-Gertrude wa~
found joy, for the fire of her Ii
other shrine, and Paul's enthusia;
her caliniess arid dig~Pty.
Altogether, though, it was a v~
household; and after a little wi
pair~ settled do~vn to their respect
by appearances, one might have s
been married.
~NCoutarini Flemino'" helped
and that same day when Paul ~
tarini tore his idolized cousin fror
her toCaudia, lie closed the boo
at the feet of his beautiful Iistc
of ancoutrollable passion:
"how I ~4sh IL could show m~

Y.               807
ILYIT.
.Y.
L'-no cards--ouly a few
run to Paris arid back-
of the same life which
except that the private
sador was now Mrs.~ tRaul
same distinguished indi
om in all her Majesty's
i~d sang about the house,
very quiet in her new-
fe had burned out at an-
~m was kept in check by
~ry contented and happy
bile, the newly wedded
tive duties, and judging
supposed they had always
the cause wond~rlly;
ras reading of how Con-
n the altar and fled with
k, and throwing himself
~uer, said, in a moment
~ love for you, Gertrude,


309.

308              DAY BY DAY.                                   I    DAY BY DAY.

as Gontarini did for Alceste!" and taking both her hands
in his, he kissed them fervently.
She made no reply, but only blushed and looked down,
and Paul said again, with an earnestness which would
have moved a heart of stone:
"Gertrude, you know how long, h~w \ devotedly, how
utterly I have loved you. Is there no hope for me? Am
I to go on loving and waiting forever?" and his heart
beat louct and fast as he searched her face for a ~ply.
After a few minutes of suspense, she loo~ him
straight in the eyes, and said:
"Paul, you would not be satisfied with a second love."
"I will be satisfied with anything you give me," was
his emphatic reply.
"You know my life?"
"Yes," with a sigh and an expressio;-t of pain upon his
manly face.
"And if I tell you that I can nevcr love as I have
loved?"
"That makes no difference," he saA impatiently;
"And if I tell you, that all the warmth and all the fire
have gone out of my life, and that there is nothing left
in my heart but ashes?"
"Give me the ashes 1" he answered quickly, and with
a pleading tone, as though pleading for his life.
"A poor exchange for such love a~ y@urs."
"If I am satisfied, why should you care? And you do
love me as a friend'?"
"Yes, dearly; but that is not the kind of love ~or hus~.
band and wife."
"But you will love me by and by, f~r I shall love you

so dearly that you cannot* help it. And besides, you do
not love any one else now?"
"And 'you will be mine?" he said eagerly. But his
heart sank within him, as no reply caine to gladden it.
I1owever,~VC have heard that renewed assaults would
carry the strongest foi'ts, and by the result we see that
this maxim cail 1)0 applied to affairs of the heart as well
as to the incidents of war.
Thus, after a long siege, the enemy capitulated, and
judging from appearances, Mrs. Paul Maxwell had for-
gotten that she once said, "The love of a friend was not
the kind of love fom~ a husband and wife."

11


CHAPTER XLVIII.
READ I I I
AY again I I
Another year gone--another twelve months of
births -deaths--~-.-marriages---of clouds and sun~.
shine,-.--of happiness and misery!
A short time in which to crowd the comic and tragic
events which mark the coining and going of each day
with alternate smiles arkd tears. Clifford and "Birdie"
were now the only watchers by the desolate hearth at
"Mossy Creek," for the old man had joined the silent
sleepers in the family burying-ground, and but' for the
laughing and crowing of the little one, the place would
have been dreary beyond endurance. Under "iMlammy's"
cave she grew and improved each day, and was, as Tup-
per says, "a well-spring of joy in the house." As sole
inheritor of her grandfather's vast property, rumor soon
named her "a great heiress;" and fathers who had an
eye to business, and mainmas who were indifferent, you
know, to such trifles as money and estates, commenced
early to lay plans as to how such a prize could be cap-
tured by "my dear Charles Augustus."
in consequence of his broken health, and the necessity
of looking after his daughter's property, Clifford dissolved
partnership with his uncle, Judge Baker, and resided per-
manently at "Mossy Greek."
And now, it was the anniversary of poor Virginia's

I

death Going into her room, which he had never oc~
copied, Clifford locked the door, and taking from the
writing-desk the letter which contained her dying re-
quest, sat down, and with trembling fingers broke the
seal. Then, with eyes filled with 4ionder, hp read the
words which I~is little, dead wife had penned. There
were only a few lines, but they filled his heart with a
strange feeling as he read them time and agaim. 4hen
he pressed his hand to his eyes, and looked to see if he was
not mistaken; then he turned the sheet over~~the 16~ked
around the room-he looked at himself-everything was
right, and he examined the letter again. It certainly
was Virginia's handwriting, but ~was it possible that any'
woman ever lived who could write what was in that let-
ter?
Yes, he knew that his little wife was capable of doing
it. He knew that she had lived-he knew she was
dead out yonder under the long moss, and brushing away
a tear, lie folded the sacred letter and kissing it, mur~
inured:
"My poor Virginia! you were indeed: an angeL"
0-  0    0        0   ~   '9  ~  0  0   0   0
A month later, a4~hin, pale man presented himself at
the door of the American Ambassador's residence in.
London. His step was unsteady-his heart fluttered ner~
vously-aud there wa~ an undefinable expression in his
eyes, as of a secret not revealed.
While standing in this state of bewilderment and agi.
station, the dooi' opened, and a footman awaited his
pleasure.
Forgetting for the instant that he was not in the
"Sunny South," where the familiarityy existing between

310                 REAP I U                                                                        311
I~EADt!!

310

REell!

811


32READ!I!!

servants and owners would have made it not only a le-
gitirnate but a natural question, he said, to the astonish-
ineiit; of tl~~ Briton:
"Is Miss Gertrude in?"
"You mean Miss Lawrence that was, sir?" asked the
attendant with something like a sneer.
Only catching the name of "Miss Lawrence," and not
the two words "that was," the stranger said impatiently:
"The sarnc; is she in ~" and his determined tone and
look made ~John cower as he answered quickly:
She is, sir."
" Tell her an old friend wishes to see her; " and with-
out awaiting an invitation from the usher, whom he
fancied did irot wish to admit him, the pale gentleman
walked in, when John instantly threw open the door of
the reception-room, and said:
"Walk in, sir"
Agitated almost beyond control, and trembling with
excitement, he' sank down and panted for breath. The
few minutes which passed thus seemed like ages; then
footsteps were heard corning hastily down the stairway.
lie wanted to see her, but he was filled with fears and
doubts. Wherefore? Nothing could have happened!
Of course not! What could? It had only been a year
and a half since he had seen her; of course nothing could
have occurred in so short a time as that; oh no, nothing!
Then his heart gave a little doubtful throb to such over-
confidence as this. But she said she would never marry,
and of course she would keep her word; and thus the
stranger consoled, doubted, believed, and tortured himself ~
alternately.
In the midst of these thoughts, Gertrude entered the

READ!!!
room, and stood gazing earnestly, but without recognk
tion, at the pale man who had called himself "an old
4riend." A look of disappointment and pain came over
his face, and sighing, he said, with a faltering voice:
*" IPo you not know me
"Clifford ! !" and the tone was not unlike that tone of
agony with which she pronounced the same name that
night at The Terraces. Then springing forward, she
clasped both hands tightly over his one, for his left arm
was still in a sling.
And again he #as disappointed, for he had expected a
warmer greeting. And the next second his heart ex-
cused her for of course she did not know but that he was
still a husband. Yes, that is the reason, he thought;
and again he consoled himself as best he could. Of
course h~ knew no changes had come to any one but
himself. How could they?
"Iii would never have--~----;" but she checked herself
before the sentence was completed.
Understanding what she meant to say, he sighed and
said:
"No, I am sadly changed;" and sitting down upon
a sofa side by side, they fell into a constrained silence ;
for Clifford's heart was too. full for utterance, and Ger~
trude was trying to force back the tears which dimmed
her sight and rendered her speechless.
For more than a year past, neither one knew a single
incident in the life, of the other, for it must be remem-
bered that twenty years ago there were no cables, and
communication with the Old World was a thing of
months instead of days. Thisiong and silent separation, it
~would seem, ought to have furnished an inexhaustible

I

812


314'

theme for conversation between two old friends; but the
truth is, neither one had the courage to open the closed
boQk of the past-Gertrude from fear of giving pain
-Clifford from fear of seeing his last hope vanish.
So~near, and yet-so far! Could strangers know less
~of each other? They were like two persons standing
before a clairvoyant wishing to' have the future revealed
to them, yet shrinking from the disclosure.
A hollow cough broke upon the stillness, and stealing
a. second glance at the pale, haggard face and sunken eyes
of her unexpected visitor, Gertrude's heart gave a throb
of pain, for she knew only too well that he was a victim
of that fatal disease which was handed down as a heredi-
tary curse in his father's family. She must be forgiven
for her long and embarrassing silence, for the changed
and sudden. appearance of her friend overwhelmed her
so that she could not recover her self-control at once.
When last she saw him, he was in the flush of youth
and triumph, and in the possession of robust health.
Now, he was but a wreck of his former~, self, and so
altered by disease and suffering, that had she met him
without hearing him speak, she would not have known
him.
A natural delicacy of feeling made her shrink from
referring to the ~change in his appearance, and as they
'had no topics of conversation in general, a silence which
they could not control held them both in its unpleasant
bondage. At length Gertrude recovered sufficiently to
say:
"When did you arrive?"
"Last night."
"How are they all at home?"

RADn!!!

READ!!!                      315
on't ask me," he said, with an impatient Wave of the
hand, as th~~igh the subject was a disagreeable one.
Then bending upon her a searching look, he said ~
"You know nothing of the changes which have taken
place? You have heard nothing?"
"Nothing!" she answered, while something like a shnd~
der passed Over her.
"Then read this;" and taking from his pocket a letter,
he handed it to her, and watched her face while she read
the following:
"My Di~u CI~nrroi~, :-.Because I have remained silent, do not
imagine that I am ignorant of the trials and sacrifices which you
have been called upon to endure and make. That I have not chided
was for the reason that I loved you too nxuch..~.was because you had
my sympathy and not-my censure. That you did not love ma
was my misfortune and your misery; and believe me, in the hope
of yet making you happy, I willingly yield up the poor little life
which is nothing without your love. ~at my death may be the
means of bringing you all that happiness '~vMch Ipray may be yours,
is the one consolation which reconciles me to going away from you.
I knew I have but a little while to live, and having made the request
ofmy father, he will give my portion of his property to you. With
this you will be independent, and i~t is my dying request that you
shall renew your addresses to Gertrude Lawrence, and marry hem~ if
you can. To you and her I leave our little one, whose name. I de-
sire to be 'Gertrude.' ])o not disregard my dying wishes, for I
trust I have asked nothing which you will Iind it impossible to
grant. If it be possible, I shall watch over you and yours, and
God grant that you may be happy yet.
"Your true and loving wife,
"YIR.*INT~ DEARfl~Q Taoup.
As she read, the color came and went in her cheeks,


READ!!

316

'I
/..

the. tears filled her eyes, and when she finished, her hands
dropped in her lap1 and the letter fell upon the floor.
It was a trying hour to both, for the suspense was agony
to Glifford, and Gertrude felt that it waS not Qrtly a trial
of he~ feelings, but a test of her honor. It will be re-
inembered that only ~i short time before she said to her
husband, "I can never love as I have loved."
But that old lo~c was buried, and to resurrect it now
would be dishonor. Had it already come back, in those
few moment~ of painful silence, to make her faithless to
her marriage-VOWS, and to blast her future with its insidi-
ous temptations? Why did she hesitate? IDo we forget
that she is but human-do we forget that she once loved
this man better than her own soul? The shock was ter-
rible; for an instant the old life glided before her-for an
instant the old love fluttered in her heart-for a moment
that little word "if?' made a thousand delightful but
wicked suggestions; but it was only for a moment, for
honor and duty crushed the disloyal feelings in her breast,
and recovering slowly from the sudden shock, she said,
~ith trembling voice:
"Did you not know--'?"
"What?" he said, clutching hey wrist so tightly as to
make it painful, while he searched her face with the
breathless anxiety with which a man watches the lips of
the Judge whose sentence is to give him life or death.
"What?" he asked again, as she still hesitated to
speak the words which her woman'S instinct told her
would seal his doom.
"That IL was-1" and again the sentence was not f1n~
ished.

READ!!!

817

"Was what ~" he again said, almost gasping fr breath,
and trembling in every limb.
"Married!" she ~at leno~th s
ran throiio'h I~er, as lie ~ aid; and a thrill of horror
released his grip upon her arm,
turned deadly pale, groaned, and sank back in his seat, for
she thought she had killed him.
It was a momentary swoon; then a shudder, a gasp for
breath; and as if to hide his agony, he covered his face
with his hand, and rested his head in the corner of the
sofa where he sat.
Then there was a long silence between them, for Ger-
trude was not more loyal than Clifford was honorable;
and neither trusted themselves to speak, lest one un-
guarded word should mar the fealty which they both
owed to another. During this painful silence, a shoi*
retrospect of his life, with all its beautiful promises, its.
temptations, its trials, its disappointments passed before
Clifford; and now, having seen his last hope vanish like
the rest, he sat, crushed and blighted, like some plant
over which the fatal sirocco had swept. Then he won-
dered to himself if he was the same man who had started
life, scarce four years before, with such brilliant pros-
pects; and then his heart hardened towards God, for it
is not uncommon for men to expect everything from
their Maker, but to give nothing in return. Meanwhile,
Gertrude sat struggling with her heart; tra.mj4ing down
the old love, putting back the old life, ~and asking God
to give her strength to do her whole duty in the trying
hour then upon her.
Clifford knew he must go, and yet-he could ~not move;
he knew he must say "good.by," but he could not speak;
and the two~ sat silent and miserable. The sun-dial could


'I

318

READ I!I!

not have marked those moments, for by its record they
would scarcely have numbered half an hour ; but by
heart-throbs they were a lifetime-by suffering-an eter-
nity.
After so long a time, with the life gone out of his
heart, the light out of his eyes, and the stamp of despair,
if not death, upon his brow, Clifford arose, and tottering
as he attempted to stand, extended his hand to Gertrude,
and said:
" Then-I must go."
Taking his hand, she forced back her tears, and stand-
ing by his side, looked in his eyes and said, with an agi-
tated voice,:
"Clifford, this life is not all. It has been full of disap-
poitments for us both. Let us try, though, and see the
hand of God in every trial; and bowing meekly to His
will, so live hereafter as to meet Virginia in heaven."
'"Noble woman! by God's help, I will!I And my little
" idi, when I am gone, you will keep her for me? "'
"Who is "Birdie"?
"IMy little Gertrude."
" Yes," between the blinding tears which were falling.
" God bless you! farewell forever!" and kissing her
brow, he went slowly out into the world, old with grief,
and heart-broken with disappointment. The crowd jostled
him on the streets, but he did not notice it; the sun
shone, but he knew not whether it was day or night ; the
ragged paupers followed after him and begged alms at
his hands, but their pitiful petitions did not reach his
ear's; and thus he wandered on in a state of abstract
misery, which knew nothing, saw nothing, heard nothing,
until exhaustion drove him to a seat in a park.

1?AD!n!it

319

Setting down, he was totally unconscious of what passed
a ound him; for his sensibilities were all stunned-hope
was gone--and life was over. The day went by--the sun
sank-night came on-and still he sat in that one spot-
frsaken, hopeless, and in despair.

4.

I

1


I -

I

820          BREAKING DOWN THE WALL.
CHAPTER XLIX.
BREAKING DOWN TILE WALL.
OR some weeks after the events recorded in the
last chapter, there was a restraint upon Paul and
Gertrude which was* fast growing into an un-
pleasant coolness~ The cause of this will be readily
appreciated by those who comprehend that there should
be no secrets between man and wife. There must be
perfect confidence, or there cannot, there will not be,
perfect love; for the moment one conceals something from
the other, that moment a barrier rises up between them,
which first begets coolness-then estrangement-then in-
difference-and where it is to end-God only knows.
On the day of CliffOrd's visit, Gertrude was natura1~y
and as we have seen, terribly agitated, both during his
stay and after he had gone; and none but women, who
have so much to conceal,~ and so much to bear in silence,
can appreciate what an effort it 'was for her to bathe her
eyes, to banish old memories, and to wear a smile t]~tat
was forced, to meet the loved ones upon their return
home. This need not have been the case, but she made
the fatal mistake that wrecks the happir~ss of so many
women; and instead of going to her husband and telling

/
321.

BREAKING DOWN THE WALL.

II

* him a~1, she locked her secret in her own breast, and
fin~d1y aroused his suspicions by what she withheld. In
this, site was more to be pitied than blamed, and her igno-
rance / must excuse her for - not doing what she perhaps
lacked the courage to execute, even granting she had
known what course was best to pursue. At dinner, the
day of the visit, she was so much affected that her food
was untasted, and both husband and uncle observed that
she had been weeping. There was a cold and constrained
conversation maintained, very unlike the merry chats
they usually engaged in around the board; and after re-
peated attempts, Gertrude said, with the best effort at
self-control she could command:
"I had a visit from an old friend this morning."
was it?" asked both gentlemen at the same
time.
Guess.~~
"Count ID'Auvergne?"
"That pcor Count, uncle, seems to be foreVer in your
thoughts, and I really believe that you are afraid of him
now, ev9n though I am married."
"Was\itnotke?"
"I giv~ it up, then."
"And you, Paul; whom do you say? ~
"I nev~r was good at guessing, Gertrude. Do tell us;
don't keep us in suspense."
"The last person you would dream of" she answered,
getting a ~Iittle bolder; "and so changed, I should never
have knoWn him, if I had not heard him speak."
A suspicion instantly flashed across Paul's mind, and


82~3          BREAKING DOWN TIlE, WALL.

laying down his knife and fork, he looked straight at his
wife tvnd said:
"Was it Clifford Troup?"
With burning checks and eyes swimming in tears, she
looked down and said, with quivering lips:
"It was."
"Clifford Troup!" said the uncle, who, looking up j'ust
then, caught the peculiar expression upon the faces of
niece and nephew, and fearing something unpleasant, he
hurried to add: "Why, you amaze me! What is he do-
ing in this part of the world, ~nd why did you not keep
him to dinner?"
"He said he must go," she answered with agitation,
for IE~au1 had ne'Q'er taken his eyes from her face, and
each moment his suspicions were becoming more deeply
rooted.
"And you say he is so much altered. What is the
matter?
"Consumption, I judge, from his cough and ap-
pearance."
"Oh yes, it is hereditary in the family. What a curse!
Paul, we must call and see him. Where is he stopping,
Gertrude?"
"I really-did not-ask him," was the confused reply.
"And he left no address?" asked the perplexed uncle.
'~None !"
"What is he doing here?"
"I do not-I did not ask him," was the blundering
reply.
"Where is he going?"
"I do not know."

"Did he bring no news from home?"
"1 do not know that either, except that his wife is
dead-and has left a daughter."
At these words, both uncle and husband looked at the
speaker; who sat trying to balance a teaspoon upon the
edge of a cup, and although neither ever mentioned it to*
the other, in their hearts, at that moment, each one fan-
eie4 he found the cause of hei~ tears and agitation. The
conversation was calculated to leave the uninitiated in
some mystery, and it was not strange that Paul gliould
feel anxious, if not unhappy, to be left in doubt as to the
object of Clifford's visit, considering the olden intimacy
which had existed between himself and Gertrude. Thus.
matters stood for some weeks, and as nothing more was
disclosed, the wall grew formidable every day between
husband and wife.
What to do Gertrude did not know, and where the es-
trangement was to end, she dared not think.
At any other time she would have gone to her uncle,
but somehow or other, this particular affair seemed a
matter of so much delicacy, that she shrank from even
speaking to him of it. Was that'~the real reason, or did
she fear that he would discover something which she
wished to, conceal? God forbid that any such thoughts
should be harbored in her breast; but then we must not
forget that she was only human, and a woman with per-
haps far more feeling than philosophy.
Thus matters stood, until one evening Paul lighted a
cigar and walked out, and Mr. Hall and Gertrude were
left alone. This habit of going out in the. evening was
growing upon Paul; and it was remarkable, of late, that

BR]~AXING DOWN ThE WALL.       823

323

322


32A4

BREAKING DOWN THJ~ WALL.

825

BREAJILNEf DOWN TIlE WALL.

lie never gave his wife the parting kiss, which a few
weeks before was bestowed so lovingly and so frequently.
All these things, which Mr. Hall silently observed,
rendered him very unhappy, -and he determined to
speak to Gertrude on the subject the first opportunity
that presented itself. Such an occasion was difficult to
find, even though.they lived under the same roof; for the
front door would scarcely close upon Paul before she
wotild steal a hurried kiss, and hasteP, in a frightened
~nanuer, to her own chamber, there to pass the night in
weeping, and in asking herself ivhat was to be done.
The breach grew wider day by day. The husband
became more silent and abstracted, and the wife was
wretched beyond description. But how could the wall be
broken down?
Alas! that "how" is the rock upon which the bark of
so many young married people splits.
One says: "I'm misunderstood; "the other says: "She
is not the same to me." Then the little nothings which
make us happy are neglected, and what was, at first, a
misunderstanding, grows rapidly into coldness, then into
indifference, then iflto estrangement, and if it be not
checked, into positive dislike. The morning and evening
kiss is not exchanged, the pleasant little courtesies of life
are ignored, the drives or walks, if taken at all now, are
taken separately, the. confidential talks dwindle down to
cold monosyllables, the w4fe retires to weep, while the
husband perchance walks the streets in.wretchedness, or
seeks amusement in some resort of doubtful propriety; and
then the devil rejoices, for he has entered a happy home,
and~ by encouraging a pride which is false in theory and

falser in practice, has laid the foundation of what will
become, in time, an insurmountable wall, unless it be
speedily broken down.
Oh, wives and husbands, struggle with all the earnest-
ness of your souls against the first misunderstanding, for,
believe us, subsequent ones will come oftener and~easier,
and it is the first one that you must keep from your fire~
side.
L~et there be no concealment, no secrets which are not
mutually shared; be all in all to each other; be the world
to qne another, and do not be satisfied with anything less;
This being done there is nothing to fear; this being net-
lected there is everything to fear. .~As we see, there was
no real cause for the unhappiness and estrangement which
existed between the young husband and wife; and could
we take a peep behind the domestic curtain, we would
frequently di&amp;~over the most abject misery springing from
sources even lighter than the one here detailed; for at
last it all amounted to this, that she failed to tell him
what would have made no difference if known, but whar
gained in importance by being withheld.
We began by saying Paul had gone out, and as usual*
a few moments afterwards Gertrude was giving her uncle
the hasty kiss before retiring, when he put both arms
around her, and drawing her to his knee in the old-fash-
ioned way, said:
"Gertrude, what is the matter?"
Leaning her head upon his should she burst into
tears; and that was her only reply.
"Foolish children that you are. Why will you make
yourselves so miserable, when you might be so happy?
Tell mc all before it is too late."


$26

BREAKING DOWN TUB WALL.

I

Still nothing but tears.
"That visit has something to do with it. Tell me
what it is, that I may apply the remedy before it is too
late."
Still no answer, but sobs; and stroking back her beau-
tiful golden hair, her uncle said again:
"Gertrude, will you tell me?"
2l3rushiilg back her tears, she arose, and Baying:
"In a moment," left the room. turningg quickly,
&amp;he handed him the letter which Clifford had given her
to read, and sitting down upon a stool at his feet, buried
her face in her hands, and bowed her head upon his
knee. With surprise and deep concern, he read it care-
fully to the end, then raising her head so that he could
look into her eyes, he said:
"Did he know you were married, when he gave you
this to read?"
"No 1"
"Did he come to offer himself to you?"
"I suppose so, for he seemed deeply affected when I
told-him II was married."
"Then, what did he say?"
"lie ~aid he must go."
"Nothing else?"
"lie asked me if I would take care of his little 'Birdie'
when he was-dead."
"Nothing else?"
"lie then-kissed me-and went away."
[I         "And is this all that happened during this visit?"
"It is."
Then there was a pause in the conversation, and Mr.

A

ill

]3REAKINQ DOWN THE WALL.

327

Hall sat leaning on his band, looking thoughtfully across'
the room. Gertrude's heart beat anxiously as she watched
him, and she absoltLtely trembled when he looked earnestly
at h~r and said:
"Do you regret being married to Paul Maxwell?"
"No," she answered quickly.
"Has the old love for Clifford Troup returned?"
"No-not as I once loved him; for since the hour that
you showed me the sin of it, in your little 'sanctuary,' I
have struggled against it; and of course, if I had not
conquered that love, I should never have married 'PauL
But, uncle, to see him so altered and so heart-broken,
affected me deeply; and somehow I could not talk about
it either to you or to Paul-for I feared Paul might
misunderstand it."
"That, my child, is the mistake you made. Go now
to your husband, tell him all, do ffot keep back a single
thing; tell him you married him because you loved him;
tell him that you love him still, and all will be well again.
D~ not sleep this night until you are reconciled to each
other. Go now and await his return
ward your efforts."             , and may God re-
Kissing him then "good-night," she retired to her
chamber with a lighter heart than she had known for
many weeks.
S   0             .   S   0
The night was far advanced, and still Gertrude sat try-
ing to read, and still Paul did not come. -
Growing restless and nervous, sh~ finally laid the
book down, and going to the window, opened it and
leant out in the night air.~
It was a lovely night in July, and through the hazy


/ 28

BREAKING DOWN TIlE WALL.

atmosphere the lamp-lights gleamed like ~lll-~'-th~-Wi5p8
in a swamp. Looking down upon the head~ of the
crowd, the young wife said to herself: "What detains
him? He never stayed out so late before;" and then a
shudder passed over her as she thought: "What if he
never returns!"
Ah! how many young wives have asked themselves the
same agonizing question, when the midnight hour found
them watching for the return of the loved one, whom
a Blight misunderstanding and too rnuch pride had
driven into the streets or some worse place to hide his
grief. So intent was Gertrude in looking down upon the
vast crowd as it went surging beneath her window, that
she did not hear her husband's noiseless entrance, nor was
she aware of his presence in the room until a deep sigh
attracted her attention.
"Paul," she said in a startled tone; but he simply looked
coldly at her, then turned away:
Her heart almost misgave her at this harsh treatment;
but like the brave woman she was, she determined to do
her duty, and leave the result to God.
Taking then, poor Virginia's letter from her pocket,
she stood before her husband, who did not even look at
her, and said:
Paul, IL have, done wrong; I have concealed some-
thing from you. Read this, and then I will tell you the
rest."
Taking the letter, his hand trembled so that he could
scarcely read, and watching him, Gertrude feared she
had little to hope, judging by the expression of constem
nation and anger upon his face. At length he finished

4

I

BREAKING DOWN THE WALL.(

329

reading it though, an~l with a gasp crumpled it in hi~
hand. Then, quick as thought, a strange, wild light
gleamed from his eyes, and springing up, he said:
"Did the Scolilidrel give you this letter, knowing you
were married ~"
"Oh, no, no, Paul-no," answered the wife, with fear
and trembling.
"I suppose you told him you regretted you were mar-
ried to another?"
"Oh, Paul, how can you do me such injustice?" and
bursting into tears, she sank down in despair, while her,
husband walked back and forth the room like a madman,
for iu that moment he believed all happiness was over for
them both. As soon as she could control herself, Ger-
trud~ got up, and joining her husband, slipped her hand
in his arm, and said:
"Paul, I married you because I loved you, and-"
"And do you love me now?" lie said quickly, as if his
very life depended upon her answer.
"Yes."
"And no one else?"
"And no one else."
The next instant she was folded to his heart in an
eager embrace, such as we give a loved one from wham
we have been separated. Then kissing her, he said:
"Will you forgive me, darling?"
"Rather should. I say, will you forgive me?" pleaded
the wife between smiles and tears.
"With all my heart," was the eager response, as lie
again pressed her to his heart.
"And henceforth we w41;have no more concealments;"


THE SHADOWS THICKEN.
330          BREAKING DOWN TIlE WALL.
and her words were sealed with a kiss. The rest of the in-
cidents were told as she sat upon his knee, with his arms
folded lovingly around her, and together they wept over
the sad fate of Clifford Troup, together they talked of                         CIIAPTER L.
"Birdie," together they knelt and asked of God forgive-
ness for the past and guidance for the future, and thus                      THE SHADOWS THIOKEDT.
the wall was broken down.
YING in a foreign land, and ix
strangers. Dying~-with no motJ~
no wife.-no friend near, to wipe
death-dew from his brow-with no one to
4              to comfort-no one to console-~no one t
passed down the dark Valley of the Shadc
But he was not afraid to die, for he felt
peace with man and God, and his only r
was the thought of leaving "Birdie" behi
He scarcely regretted the past now, and
retrospect was, he at last understood that I:
had been realized, his heart would have be
in the things of this world alone, and he v
be ready to meet his Maker; and so he wa
the will of God.
At Paris, he submitted to a painful opex
arm, which in. his already exhausted condi
a prisoner in that gay metropolis until the I
of autumn, and his physician's advice sant:
"Why go to Nico?" he said. "It will
little ~while; "and he was right, for now, I
And often, when Clifford fancied himself f
the world, away across the deep blue ocear

881
r the midst of
ter-xio sister-
the cold, damp
soothe-no one
o cheer-as he
~w of Death.
that he was at
b
egret in going
nd.
painful as the
F all hk wishes
en wrapped up 4
v~ould not then
s reconciled to
'ation upon his
tion held hi~m
irst cold winds
him to Niee.
only be for a
lie was dying.
gottenn by all
t-away down


332

I

THE SHADOWS TIEJIOWEN.

in the Sunny South, his poor heart-broken mother knelt,
and interceding with the good God, prayed that her tern-
pest-tossed boy might find rest in his mansions at last-
rest and peace after the storms of this life were ended.
Storms for which he was scarcely responsible, but through
which he must pass in order to fulfil the law; for has not - -
Jehovah said that "the- iniquities of the fathers shall be
visited upon the children to the third and fourth genera-
But who remembers this, or what man stops to consider
that his own flesh and blood must suffer for his evil do-
ings?
"Jake," his colored valet, and "IMiamtfly" and "Bir-
die," were with him; but to none of these could Clifford
show the drops of blood, as they oozed slowly but surely
out of his heart. To none' of them could he show the
crown of thorns which pierced his weary, aching brow;
and ~o what little of love and what little of life he had
left to give were lavished upon "Birdie." She was his
all now; and to her his heart gave all its tenderness and
all its devotion, until he- feared he was making her an
idol.
Singularly enough, she returned this love with an ardor
that was rare in a child, and oftentimes, when IMIamnly
would start with her for a walk or drive, her blue eyes
would fill with tears at parting from her father, and she
would cry so, that he would have her brought back, say-
in~
"There will be plentY of time, Maminy, when II am
gone. Let me have her while III am here."
"Certainly,' Mars Clifford, certainly," INliamnay would

THE SHADOWS THICKER.

say, and putting his little pet on the bed beside him,
would turn away to hide her falling tears.
Thus the wi ter dragged wearily and painfully away,
and the trying winds of March taxed all Clifford's
strength ~nd the skill of his physician to keep life in
him. Blankets were stretched across the windows, fires
were kept steadily burning, and by a thermometer th&amp;
rooms were kept at summer heat. But all this made no
difference, a~d Clifford, knowing that the end was near,
gave final directions to his faithful and devoted attend-
ants. . T6 Jake he gave two letters, saying:
"When I am dead, Jake, I wish you to take me back
to ~Ameri~ato be buried in the old family burying-ground
at the 'Manor.' IJpoll your arrival at M-, you wilL
give this letter to my mother. You must go by London,
and leave Mammy and 'Birdie~' with-Mrs. Maxwell,
whom you will find at Mr. Hall's, the American Ambas-
sador's, and to whom you will give this letter. Main-
my, you and 'Birdie' will live with Mrs. Maxwell, and
I want you to promise me never to leave my little darling
while you live. Do you promise?"
"Yes, Mars Clifford; and may de Lord strike me
dead if ever I forfeits my word 1" and the old soul wept
as if her heart would break.
"And you both promise to do exactly as IL have told
you?"
"Most surelyl, sir," answered Jake, with rather an
off ended aj~r at -being asked such an unnecessary ques-
tion.
"Then II can die satisfied;" and closing his eyes, he
turned over and laid in a kind of stupor all day, but in

1;


F,,
I

85

~S6~           THE SHADOWS ThICKEN.
reality he was engaged in silent prayer, and was trying
to keep the promise made to both Virginia and Ger-
trude.
During the night he rallied a little, and in the morn-
ing, ~whule " Jake" and "Mammy" had stepped out of
the room for a moment, he breathed his last with "l3ir-
die" clasped in his arms.
A smile lingered round his lips, and when "iNtamthy"
returned, she thought he was only teasing "Birdie" by
pretending to be asleep, as this little elf slapped him in
the face, pulled his hair, and called him "Fader, Fader."
Soon, however, the truth flashed upon "Mammy," and
snatching the child from the arms of her dead father, she
flew for the doctor. He came hurriedly, but his skill was
of no avail, for. his patient was beyond the reach of
human power; and let us hope he found peace and rest
at last!
Thus, while the son expiated by suffering and death
the iniquities of his father, that poor father was cursed
with the treble boon of life, poverty, and dissipation;
and already the large sum which Clifford had set aside
for him when he went abroad had been swallowed up in
the most sickening debauches.
And as the crushed, blighted, and heart-broken mother
listened to the impious ravings of her~ husband, she shud-
dered lest the anger of God should descend upon their
heads and consume them body and soul. But had he
not set up other gods? had he not fallen down and wor-
shipped other idols?
Iliad he not taught his son that noblesse oblige was syn-
onymous with "honor thy father and mother, that thy

I

days may be long in the land which the Lord thy God
giveth thee?"
Is there such a thing as retributive justice?
Let him who doubts it look into the hearts of his
fellow-men, and see if happiness is the result of iniqui-
tous dealings.
Let him look at the life of this man, which was now
but a living hell; and yet there was no absolute crime in
it. No; it was but the result of human frailty leaning
upon its own slight arm for support-..--the inevitable con-
sequence of moral weakness, which craved a white sep-
ulchre for men to gaze at, while the all-seeing Eye alone
saw the worms enfolded within. Thus Life pursued this.
frail man with a relentless remorse that made him cower
before its accusations, and made him plead for Death as
though there would be relief beyond the tomb. Only
think! he cared not for eternal damnation, because then
he would be free from the sneers of his fellow-men.

'I

I

THE SHADOWS THICKEN.

an a


r7~

cc
BIRDIE.

'1

367

well, whom "Mammy" now took charge of, Wii~ not her
own brother.
Nothing pleased her ~o much as to stand by hi8 crib
and rock him, "by-a-baby;" and, when they went out
walking, she was proud as any queen if allowed to push
the carriage ever so short a distance.
The resemblance to her father was so .striking, that at
times Gertrude would be startled, and the tears would
spring to her eyes as she watched her at play.
But they came not from disloyalty to her husband,
whom she loved with an increasing love each day, but
from regret at the sad fate of the young, parents, who
were the victims of pride and selfishness. That they
died of broken hearts she did not doubt; and that such
a disease prevails, we, who dive down deep into human
breasts, and there see tliQ inner workings, with society
masks left off, do believe.
Then let us be gentle o~e with another, both bearing
and forbearing; for we do not know how often our
brothers are ready to sink by the wayside with the heavy
burden of life, and only think how one little kind word
will cheer that drooping, fainting form.
And, in conclusion, we desire to repeat to our young
men what the Deiphic Oracle said to Cicero% when he
inquired by what means he might rise to the greatest
glory.
The priestess bade him "follow nature, and not take
the opinion of the multitude for the guide of his life."
By nature we mean conscience enlightened by re-
ligion; for whoever tramples upon the nobler instincts
which have been given ~huin-~--whoever defies God and his
15

886

CHAPTER II
be possible for me to do my duty, with this
reminder ever before me ~" asked Gertrude of
herself, as she sat rocking "Birdie" to sleep one
evening~; for the wee traveller and "Mammy '1' were now
regularly installed as inmates of Mr. Hall's household;
and, strange to say, the little double orphan just walked
right into the hearts of the entire family, never having
been shy or afraid of them for even a moment.
From some fancied resemblance, oi' some other cause-
for who knows what is in the minds of children-
"Birdie" called ]?aul "fader" from the very beginning,
and would cry for him so when he left the hoi~se, that he
frequently took h~r with him. This pleased him won-
derfully; and Gertrude, fancying she saw the hand of
Providence in it all, said to herself, "The little darling
must have been sent to test my strength, and .1 will pray
to God to help me do my duty."
And so the days went by, and Mr. Hall was now the
proudest "grandpa" in all England, for so he insisted
upon calling himself; and it was many, many years
before "Birdie" knew that the little Reuben Hall Max-

~1~


CCam.

888-

law6-will find, when it is too late, that neither worldly pre-
ferment, wealth, nor glory will be able to satisfy the yearn-
ings of a heart whose highest impulses have been crushed
and made to subserve the basest motives.

9

THE END.

4

U

4


Recently Published by
6 W. CARLETON &amp; CO., New York,
Madison Square, Fifth Avenue and flroadway.
N.B.-TITE PUBLISHERS, upon re~,eipt of the price In advance, will sesi4
az~y of tho following Books by mail, POSTAOE riu~, to any part of the United
~t.atea This convenient and very auto mo(1c may be adopted when the neigbb~
lug Booksellers are not supplied with the desired work.
Marion Ilarland.

ALONE.-  . .

17~ere Is a kisd of physiognomy in the tAlk.
g~f books no less I/ian in the faces of
men, by which a skilful observer
will know as well what to ea-
Jed from the one as t~c
'I_____

I

A novil.

RIDDEN PATH.-.        do.
5105$ SIDE.-  .       do.
NEMESIS.-     .      do.
MIRIAM.-      .      do.
AT LAST.-     .      do.
HELEN GARDNER.-      do.
~UNNYBANK.- .        do.
HUSBANDS AND HOMES.- do.
RUBY'S HUSBAND.-     do.
PHEMIE' S TEMPTATION.- do.
l~HE EMPTY HEART.-   do.
TRUE AS STEEL.-       do.
IIiss

121

.    .
7ust Pub/is/ted.
*    S
~"ust Pub/is/ted.
Illuloch.

mo. cloth.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.

$1.50
$1.50
$1.50
$1.5'.
$1.50
$1.5,
$1.50
$5o
$1.50
$1.50
$1.50
$1.30

JOHN ITALIFAX.-A novel. With illustration. i~rno. cloti:, $1.75
A LIFE FOR' A LIFE.-  .       do.          do.'   $i
Charlotte Bronte (Cu rrer Bell),
JANE EYRE.-A novel. 'With jihistratiun. 121110. cloth, $i 75
SHIRLEY.-    do.           do.           do.        1 75
Guide for New York CIty.
WOOD'S ILLUSTRATED UAND.BOOK.-A beautiful pocket volume, $i 00
/
Handmflooks or ~oeIcty.
tHE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; nice points of taste, good man-
ners, and the art of making oneself agreeable. i 2mo. ,$ I .7~
t'RII ART 0? OONYERSATION.-A sensible work, for every one
who wishes to be an agreeable talker or listener. 1 2~O. $i.~o
ARTS OF WRITING, READING~ AND SPEAKING.-Afl excellent bocl
for self-instruction and improvement.  121n0. do., $1.50
A NEW DIAMOND EDITION of the above three popular books.-
Small size, elegantly bound, and put in a box. - $3.20
VRS. filL 1.'S NEW COOL{EMT E')OK, and r~eipts. P ~i%~ ed%41 *4 44

. 9

~mrn~


(          LIST OF BOOKS P1MISED DT
Mary J. Holmes.

LENA sRIVERS.-   . .   .
DARKNESS AND DAYLIGHT.-.
TEMPEST AND SUNSHINE.- .
MARIAN GREY.-  .   .   .
MEADOW BROOK.-     .   .
ENGLISH ORPHANS.-   .   .
DORA "DEANE.-  .   .
COUSiN MAUDE.-   -.     .
hOMESTEAD ON THlE HILLSIDE.-
litGH WORTHINGTON.-.
T H E CA MERON PRIDE.- . .
ROSE MATHER--  .   .   .
ETHElYN'S MISTAK.-- . .
MILLBANK.-     .   .    .

EDNA BROWNiNG.-- .

femULA.-
MACARIA.-
3T. ELMO.-
VASHTI.-

A novel.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
do.
,do.
'do.
do.
do. .
do.

rust Pubish

izrmo. Ckdth,
. do. .
o   (1.  .
o do.
,do,.
. do.
. do.
.. do .
.do.
o do. .
do.
do.
.   do.  .-
. do. -*
~ed. do. .

$1.50
$i 50
$1 50
$1 50
$i 5C
$i 50
$1.50
$1.50
$1.50

Augusta 3. Evans.

.   .   .   . A novel.
.   .   .   .    do.
rust Published. do.
.  .  o   .    do.  -
Louisa IU. Alcott.

I2mo. cloth,
. do.,.
. do. .
. do. .
. do. .

$1-75
$1.75
$2.00
$2.00
$1-75

)fORNTNG GLORIES. -By the Anthor of "Little Women," etc. $z-5,

The Crusoe Library-"'Star Edition."
RONNSON CRUS~oE.-A handsome illus. edition. 2mo.
SWiSS FAMILY ROBLNSON.-  do.  .   .   .   do.
ima ARABIAN NIGHTS.--   do.   .   .   .   do-.
Captain Mayne Reid.-ll ustrated'.

rBE SCALP HUNTERS.-
THE WAR TRAIL.- .
THE HUNTER'S FEAST.-
TrlE TIGER HUNTER.- .
OSCEOLA, THE SEMINOLE.-
THlE QUADROON.- .
RANGERS AND REGULATORS--.
f HE WHITE GAUNTLET.--
WILD LIFE.- . .
1311 HEADLESS HORSEMAN.-
5.0ST LENORE.- , .
EE WOOD RANOERS.- .
I'RE WHITE CHiEF.-  .
-s  WiLD TVuss.-*.
na mE   ON-
m2 RIF'LR RAGEE - .

G. W. CARLETON t Cc)., HEW YOAL.

U

Comic Books-Illustrated.
ARTEMUS WARD, His B~ook.-Letters, etc.  12mOl. cL, $L.50
x40.     His Travels-Mormons, etc.   ,do.   $x-5Q
DO.     In London.-Punch Letters    do.    $I 5C
DO. . His Panorama and Lecture. do. $1-50
Do.. Sandwiches for Railroad. ,. .23
. 0BH BILLINGS ON ICE, and other things.- do. $i.;o
DO. His Book of Proverbs, etc. do. $1.50
Do.     Farmer's Allmnanax. .   . .    .       .2
FANNY FERN.-Folly as it Flies.  .'     .  do.    $i.5o
Do. Gingersnaps . . . . do. $i-5o
-  Do.     Caper-Sauce.  .  .    .   .$-5
YEaDANT-GREEN.-A racy English college story. do. $i-50
ORPHEUS a. KERR.-Kerr Papers, 4 vols. in One, do. $2.00
Do.       Avery Glibun. A novel. .   .    . $2.00
DO.       The Cloven Foot. do.      do.    $1.50
"  ALLAD 0OF LORD BATEMAN.-llUstrated by Cruikshank.  .25
A. S. Ro' Works.

- - --        - ~    * - .. -

LONG LOOK AHEAD.-   Anvl             Io chw $I5
TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.- do. .   .     do.        5
TIME AND TIDE.-          do. ,    .     do.       -5
I'VE BEEN THINKING.-     do. .    .     d'.     $1.50
THE. STARi AND THE CLOUD.-  do. .  .    do. a   $1.50
TRUE TO THE LAST.- -     do. .    .     do.     $1-50
HOW COULD HE HELP IT ?-  do. .    .     do.     $-5
LIKE AND UNLiKE.-        do. .    .     do.     $-5
LOOKING AROUND.-         do. .    .     do.     $-5
WOMAN OUR ANGEL.-        do. .    .     do.     $.5
THE CLOUD ON THE HEART.-  do. .   .     do.     $x-50
RESOLUTION.-           ?fust Published,  do.    $-5
Joseph Rtodman Drake.
'uu CULPRIT FAY.-A f ery poem, with ioo illustrations. $2.oc
DO. Strerbly hound in turkey morocCO. $#.oo

$1. 5'.
$1.-50
$1-50

i2mo. CIo., $I. 0o
Far West Series do. $1-50
do. $1.50
do. $1.50
}PrarieSc~ies do.   $1-50
do. $1-50o
do. $x-50o
do. $x-50o
Pioneer Series do. $1-50
do. $i-53
do, $I.50a
do. $i.50
Wild Forest Series do. $i.50o
do. $i-5ti

"Bricka nPomeroy.
SENSE.-AnI illustrated vol. of fireside musings. i~mo, CI., $1.50
NONSENSE.- do. do. COmiC sketChes. .do $I-5c,
OUR SATURDAY NIGHTS. do. pathos and sentiment. $1-50'
URICK DUST.-Comic sketches.  .  .   . ,  .   .  $x 3o
.OotD DJsr.-Fireside musings.  .  .  .   .   .$-5

John Euten Cooke.
V ArRrAX.-   A brilliant new novel. .  .
KILT TO HILT.-      do.   .   . ...
HAMMER AND RAPIER.- do.  .  .  .
oUT OF THlE FOAM.-- do. #3 tublShe

I2m0. Cloth,
do.
do..
d, do.

$1.50
$i 50
$. 30


*          G. )i~ UARL~TQN 4 UO~ HA W TORR
Victor Hugo.
LM M[SEI&amp;ABLES.-The celebrated novel, 8vo. cloth. $z~ 5@
Two vol. edition, fine paper, do. ~. 00
In the Spanish language, do. - 500
Algeruoiz Charles Swinburne.
JS VENERTS, AND OTHER POEMS. -Elegant new ed. - $z 50
~'RENCH LOVE~SONGs. -.-~By the best French Authors. - I 5d
Author "New Gospel of ~
~'IIE CHRONICLES OF GOTIIAM.-A rich modern satire. $ .25
THE FALL OF MAN.-A satire on the Darwin Theory. 50

Julie P. Smiih.
WiDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGIITER.-A novel. l2mo. cloth.
~HRIS AND OTHO.-                do.       do.
THE WIDOWER.-                   do.       do.  -
ThE MARRIED BELLE. -            do. 7us/ j5uUished.

WARWICK.--A new novel.
LULU.-        do.
IIOTSPUR.- do.
~;TORMCLIFF.- do.
DELAPLAINE.- do.
aEVEl~LY.-    do.     7
Ilichavd

WAS HE SUCCESS tJL ?- A novel.
UNDERCURRENTS. -        do.
SAINT LEGER.-           do.
IIOMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE. do.
IN THE TROPICS.-         do.
HENRY POWERS, Banker.- do.
TO-DAY.-                 do.

.75
1.75
1.75
1.75

-       -  l2nio.cloth. $1.75
-       -       do.    -
*       -       do.    -   1.75
-       .       do.     -  1.75
-       -       do.    -   1.75

do.    -   1.75

- l2mo. cloth.
-       do.    -
-       do.    -
-       do.    -
-       do.
-       do.
-       do.    -

$1.75
1.75
1.75
I .75
1.75
1 75
1.75

DI. 3lichelet's R~inarkabIe Works.
LOVE (L'AMoUI~).-Translated from the FreQoh. l2nio. 01. $i .50
WOMAN (LA FEMME).-.      do.       -     do.   - 1.50

Eriivst Renan.
THE LIFE OF JESUS.-.Trans'ted from the French. l2mo. ci.
LIVES OF THE APOSTLES.-      do.           do. -
TilE LIFE OF SAINT PAUL--    do.           do. -
TIlE BLULE IN INDIA-          do.     of Joccoliot.

$1 75
1.75
1.75
2.00

Popular Italian Novels.
DOCTOR ANTONIO.-A love story. By Ruffini. l2nio. ci $i .75
NIRATRICE CENCL-By Gierrazzi, with Portrait. do. - 1.75

Geo. IV. Carleton.
OUR ARTIST IN CUBA. -With 50 comic illustrations.
OUR ARTIST IN PERU.-      do.         do.
OUR ARTIST IN AFRICA.--(In press).    do.

a

- $1.50
- 1.50
'  ~

t820P BOOK$ P 4i8HUI~~
I
4
sllaii~uS Works
m DEBATABLE LAND.-~-By Robert Dale Owen. l2mo. $~o.
~ RUTLEDGE.-A novel of remarkable interest and power. 1.50
THE SUTHERLANDS.-      do.    Author of Rutledge. 1.50
PRANK WARRINOTON.-     do.    .      do.         z. 5o
SAINT PHILIP'S.--      4o.           do.         1.50
do.           do.         1.50
FERNANDO DE LEMOS.-A novel. By Charles Gayateo. - 2.00
MAURICE.-A novel from the French of F. Bechard. - 1.50
MOTHER GOoSE.-~et to music, and with illustrations. * i. 5o
BRAZEN (IATES.-A new child's book, illustrated. * 1,50
THE ART OF A~UsThIG..-Book of home amusements. - 1.50
STOLEN WATERS.-A fascinating novel. Celia Gardner. 1.50
1IEAU I~ HUNGUY..-A noveL By iMaria 3. Westmoreland. i4~
THE SEVENTH VIA~.-A new work. Dr. John OummiW. 2.00
THE GREAT TRIBULATION.-ILeW ed.       do.        2.00
THE GREAT~PR~PARATION.- do,           do.        z.oo
THE GREAT C0~UMMATION.-d0,            do.        2 00
THE LAST WARN]~G CRY.- do.            do.        1.50
ANTIDOTE TO "THE GATES AJAR."-    - /   -          25
HOUSE~ NOT MADE WITH HANDS.-Hopplfl'5 flius. * 1 00
BEAUTY IS POWER.-AXL d~xiirable book for ladies. *
ITALIAN LIFE 4ND LEGENDS.-By Anna Cora Ritchie. .
LIFE AND DEAT .-A new American noveL    -        1.50
HOW TO MAKE MONEY; AND HOW TO KEEP IT.-Davies. 1.50
THE CLOISTE$ AND THE HEARTH.-By Charles Reade. 1 50
TALES FROM THE OPERAS.-The Plots of all the Operas. 1.50
ADVENTURES OF A HONEYMOON.-A love-story. . 1.50
AMONG THE rI~Es.-Down $outh. By Edmund K.irke. 1.50
MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS.- do.             do.   .    1.50
DOWN IN TRNNESSEE.-    do.            do.      * I .50
ADRIFT IN kDIXIE.-     do.            do.      * 1.50
AMONG THE GUERILLAS.- do.            do.       - 1.50
A BOOK ABO(JT LAWYERS.-Bright and interesting. - 2.00
A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.-     do.      do. -      - 2.00
WOMAN, LOVE, AND MAIIRIAGE.-By Pre~l. Saunders. - .50
PRISON LIFE OF JEFFERSON DAVIS.-By 3. 3. Craven. I .50
POEMS, BY L. G. THOMAS.- - - - - 1.50
PASTIMES WITH MY LITTLE FRIENDS.-Mrs. Bennett. -
l~IIE SQUIBOB PAPERS.-A comic book. John Phoemi.. ~
COUSIN PAUL.-A new American novel. - - - .
JARGAL.-A novel from the French of Victor Hugo. - 1.75
CLAUDE GUEUX.- do.         do.       do.       - I .50
LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO.-      do.       do.       - 2 00
OHRIS'JMAS HOLLY. -By Marion Harland, Illustrated. - 1 50
THE R~U8SIAN I3ALL.-AI1 illustrated satirical Poem. - .25
TIlE SNOBLACE BALL.-    do.         do.           .25
THE PRINCE OF KASHNA.-Edited by R. B. Kimball. . 1.75

&amp;
1


S        PUBLISHEDDYG. .      QNdCO.

Xisce11l~ii~ous Works.
Buy EARLSCOUILT'S WIFE..--A novel by May Agnes Fleming..
BROEEN DREAMS.-A novel in verse, by Celia Gardner. * *
FAUSTINA.-A novel from German of ~ahn.Hahn. * *
POLE QN THE GAME OF WHIST.~-..Late Lon~1 on ed
ANC#ELINA GUSHINGTON..-ThOUghtS on Men and Things. .
HORACE GREELEY.-NeW Representative Life by Reavis .
WflAT I KNOW OF FARMING..-By Horace Greeley. * * *
GUSTAVE ADOLPIL-A novel from Swedish of Topelius. .
woi~ AN~ THEATRES..-A new book by Olive Logan. .
A LOST ui~.-A novel by Emily H. Moore. . . . .
CROWN JEWELS -     do      Mrs. Emma L. Moffett..
ADRIFT WIT~ A VENGEANCE.-' Kinahan Cornwallis. . .
!HE FRANCO-PRITSSIAN WAR IN 1870. ...-By M. D. Landon.
DREAM MUsIC.-..PoemS by Frederic Rowland Marvin. . .
RA~LBLES IN CUBA.-By an American Lady. . . . . .
BERINI% THE SOENES, in the White House.-Keckley. . .
YACIITMAN'S PRIMER.-For Amateur Sailors.-Warren.
RURAL ARCHITECTURE.-By M. Field. With illustrations.
TREATISE ON DEAFNESS.-By Dr. E. B. Lighthill. . . . a
SIBYL HUNTINGTON.-.A novel by Mrs. J. C. R. Dorr. *
LIVING WRITERS OF THE SOUTH-By Prof. Davidson. . a a
STRANGE VISITORS..-A book from the Spirit World. . a
UP BROADWAY, and its Seq~iel.-.-A story by Eleanor Kirk.
MILITARY REOOfLD, of Appointments in the U. S. Army. .
NONOR BRIGIIT.-A new Xzri~rican novel..............
MALBROOK.-.    do.     do.    do.................
GUILTY OR NOT GUILTY.-  do.   do.................
ROBERT GREATHOUSE.-A new novel by John F. Swift. .
ATHALIAH....-A new novel by Joseph H. Greene, Jr. . .
MONTALBAN.-A new American novel. . . a . . .
MADEMOISELLE MERQUEM.-A novel by George Sand. .. . a
filE IMPENDING CRISIS OF THE SoUTII.-By H. R. Helper.. .
THE BISHOP'S SON.-A novel by Alice Carey............
CRUISE OF THE ALABAMA AND SUMTER.-By Capt. Semmes. .
HELEN OoURTENAY.-A novel, author of "Vernon C.rove." .
SOUVENIRS OF TRAVEL..-By Madame Octavia W. LeVert. .
VANQUISHED.-A novel by Agnes Leonard. . a a a a a
WrLL-O'-THE-WISP.---A child's book, from the German.. a a
FOUR oAKS.-A novel by Kamba Thorpe. . . . . .
THE IJHRISTMAS FONT.-A child's book, by M. J. Holmes.
MARY BRANDEGEE.-A novel by Cuyler Pine. a a a a a
RENSHAWE.-.        do.~        do.      . * a a a
PROMETHEUS IN ATLANTIS.-.-.A prophecy.  . a a a a
~     AGONISTES.-.AJ.I American noveL .  . a a *

$1.73
$1.50
$1.50
$2.00
$1.50
$1.50-'
$1.50:
$2.00
$1.50
$1.50
$ 2.00
50
$2.00
$1.50
$1.75
$2.00
$5.00
$1.50
$1.50
$1.75
$1.75
$1.75
$2.00.
$1.75
$2.00
$1.75
$1.75
$I.7.5
$2.00


  
             
         
       
   
