
    ----CITATION----
        Washburn, Charles A. (1822-1889). Gomery of Montgomery, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8229
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Gomery of Montgomery, vol. 1 
            
                 GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY:  BY THE AUTHOR OF "PHTTTP -THAXTER.' M DCCCLXV. '    Entered, according to Act o. ongress, in the year 1865i by GEORGE W. CARLETON,  In the Clerk's'Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York. " GtO. (J. BAND & AVERY, STEREOTYERS AND PRINTERS, /NO. 3 CORNHLL, BOSTON.    GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY. CHAPTER I. "Like one that on a lonesome road Doth walk in fear and dread, And, having once turned round, walks on, And turns no more his head, Because he knows a frightful fiend Doth close behind him tread."-- COLERIDGE. IT was three years, more or less, after theJludicrous scene at Lord Maccleton's dinner-table, when his distinguished guests were -diturbed by the fireworks so inopportunely let off in the yard and under the dining-rQom window as to' throw some of the guests under the table, and bring to the floor, With a crash, an amount of glass and porcelain that would have furnished a small dealer in such articles with a stock- sufficiently expensive and elegant to have insured him a large custom, that a traveller called at the lodge of the old Beresford Estate, and inquired if my lord was at home. He  was a stout man, of uncertain age; for he might have been forty-five, and he might have been sixty. His complexion, once sandy, was inclining to gray: he had a merry eye, and  his nose was unnaturally pug. Of course, he could be no other than Joe Pumpagin. He began somewhat abruptly questioning the keeper, whom he found churlish, and charv of his answers; and Joe found it necessary to resort to his usual expedient of invention and story-telling to command attention.  . "How far is it," asked he, " to the next tomn? - "I never measured the distance," answered!the keeper.    ? "Thank you!" said Joe. "What does his lordship pay you for treating people so politely?" "E pays me wage," growled the keeper. 3     4       GOMERY OF MONTGOAEIR: "Well, then, give him my respects when you see him next; and here, old woman, can't you give me a pot of beer?"-'"No," said she sharply. "Well, then, I must get on ' to the next town without it; for I have got to lodge an in- formation with the magistrate." "A hinformationi!" said the keeper: "against whom?" "I can't tell against whom; but I saw the most daring highway robbery ever committed in England since the days of Robin Hood, not more than two miles from here." 1 z   "A robbery!" exclaimed he' in surprise, taking his pipe, j from his mouth, and for the first time looking at his visitor, -- " a robbery!" "Yes: a robbery, I said, not half a league from here. I must hurry along and report-it." i "Come in, and tell us all about it," said the keeper's wife, who had been standingin the door, her -arms akimbo, during the conversation between Joe and her husband. Joe accepted this invitation, and entered the lodge, fol- lowed by the keeper; and, taking a seat, he drew forth from his pocket a pipe so black as to prove-its long service, a plug of tobacco, and jack-knife, and said, as he began clipping off the filling for the dudeen, '"Perhaps you will give me a light for my pipe -if you won't give me a drop of beer. But I can't stop long; for that younglady is in the hands of the robbers, and I must be off so as to give the information.;' "A young lady!" exclaimed thie kleeper. 'Old woman, bring a pot of beer!" While the dutiful wife was gone for the beer, Joe filled his pipe, and, finding he had clipped off double the quan- \ tity the bowl could contain, gave the remainder to the keep- er, who in turn loaded his pipe, and then raked a coal from the fireplace, with which they both lighted their furnaces, and began puffing away. As soon as the old woman re- turned with the beer, Joe Resumed his narrative of the rob- bery. "You see," said he, "I had been walking pretty brisk for about three hours, and had sot down to rest me by the road- side. I had -sot only a few minutes, when a fine carriage drawn by four splendid black horses swept by. There were but two passengers inside,- one an old man, and the other a most:beautiful young lady, with eyes that sparkled like dia- monds, and eyelashes so long anrd silky, and teeth as white ,-.   A AMLY -HSTORY.         5 as pearls; and then, to crown all, she had golden hair, that 'hung in the most beautiful locks about her cheeks, neck, and shoulders. Well, as I sot there on the grass, the carriage swept by me like -a whirlwind; and I was so impressed with her beauty, that I'm scorched, if she had .only stopped there, i' and given me a chance, if I hadn't made her an offer of .my hand, heart, and fortune. But she swept by me in a twin- kling, and was no sooner past than twelve ruffians came out of the forest that lined the road on one side, and stopped the a carriage, and killed the driver and the footman, and also-,the old man: and then one of the ruffians got on the box, and- took the reins; another took the place of the footman; a third, who seemed to be the leader, gotinside with the young lady with golden locks; and off they drove lick-a-ti- cut."  "Old woman," said the keeper, "bring on some cold meat and bread and cheese. Bring two mugs of hale too." "It is my treat now," said Joe, throwing down a sovereign to the old woman; " and that is just the change." The good woman hurried to bring -the things called for, having first put the sovereign where her husband could not find it; and Joe and the keeper regaled ;themselves with a hearty lunch, during which Joe kept up the favorable impres- sion he had made by telling other stories of his wonderful, adventures, so much more marvellous than that of the lady with the golden locks, that they all forgot about the urgent need of his hastening forward so as to give information: to the magistrate. The beer and the easy confidence of Joe soon unlocked the tongue of the porter; and, to Joe's' inquiries, he an- swered that the proprietor of that estate was Lord Beres- ford; and that, though yet a young man, he was essentially used up; that heihad been! the wildest young lord in Eng- - land, till his excesses had ruined his health; and now, at forty-five, he was an old-man. "And has he; no family?" asked Joe. "Indeed 'e 'as; and 'er ladyship is a fine woman too, and has two sweet children, that sometimes come down to the lodge. But the poor lady, their mother, is not 'appy, - so the servants at the :'all say. She' is the daughter of Lord Mac- cleton; but 'e never comes to visit 'er: and them servants:up to the 'all says that the butler 'e 'eard 'er ladyship's waiting-   6       GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: maid say that she 'aeard 'er ladyship say to the little girl that is the oldest child, that she 'ad'er motherls fortulne in never seeing 'er father; and then 'er ladyship stopped, and said to 'erself, ' I never saw my father; three hours since I left the ship.' Strange!-wa'n't it strange? But then these servants are always talking. I make it a rule never to say a word of what is going on either in the 'all or on the- estate. When anybody comes prying round me for secrets, they go away with fleas i their ears. That is the reason, you see, why I spoke to you so, roughly at first; for I didn't know but you was one of these curis sort of men, wanting to find out the family secrets; and I was determined you should not get a thing from me.. But, as soon as I saw you was a gen'leman and man of truth, I felt as if I could give you my confidence; and I hoffer you my land in apology for my rudeness: at first." Joe, having thus established-relations of friendship and con- fidence with the gate-keeper, determined to push on to the town as hee had intended, and make that his headquarters while pursuing his investigations. - He accordingly bade his friends of the lodge good-by, and walked briskly away, prom- ising to call again and!visit them should he ever pass that way again. In an hour and a half, he reached a considerable town or village, and went directly to the best hotel in the place. He was somewhat begrimed with dust and dirt, and had very much the appearanee of a sailor who had doffed his seaman's garb to conceal his occupation. As he entered the door of the" inn, the-landlord, a fat round-bellied man, formal as a priest, with a sort of Quaker coat and white choker, eyed him askance, and asked himwhat he wanted.  "I will tell you when I get ready," said Joe, throwing his bundle on a table, and taking a chair.. "Oh, sir!" said Boniface,: I am not particular: only I was going to say thisis a 'otel of the first class, very expensive; and only the betters of you, such as gentlemen and lords and great ladies, ever stop here." "The devil they do! Then this is just the house for my money. I have been hunting for- my betters for a long time; and, as iyou say they stop here, I think I will put np here for a few wgeks. So bring me a pot of beer, and be" quick about it, old Butter-face!"   .  The , landlord rose on tiptoe; and his eyes rolled up as if *    .o -          i.   A FAMLY HSTORY.          7 ' he thought the Devil had come to claim his own, ancd then timidly said, "I beg pardon; but this is not an inn for the likes of you." "( Bring me the beer!" said Joe, bringing his cane down , athwart the table, so that it caused the very floor to rebound like a spring board, so as to raise thelandlord to his toes. It was a hint he did not care to disregard: nr did- he venture to remonstrate further; but, going out, he called a boy who was in the yard, and told him to run and fetch a constable; and then, thinking it prudent to: keep his visitor quiet by i complying with his request, he brought in a pint mug of beer, and set it on the table before his bully customer.  "Another!" said Joe, " another! do you think I can-drink, alone?" and he looked ominously at his- stick that was lying on the table. Another pint wasbrought; and Joe then said, a"Sit down, my friend, sit down, and let us be social; for; as you say yours is a first-rate tavern, I intend to stop here some time, say a month or two: for the 'fact is," giving the indig- ' nant host a punch in the ribs that made him reel, 'I took a great fancy to you when I first saw you. I liked your coun- tenance much; for I agree with the great bard of Avon,- ' The man that hath no music in himself,'-- no, I don't mean that: , "et me have men about me that are fat, -- Sleek-headed men, and such as sleep o' nights. Yond' Cassius has a lean and hungry look: , He thinks too much : such men are dangerous.' "Now, you are none of that lean and hungry kind, but sleek-headed and -fat, and can sleep, I warrant you, like a bear in winter. So here is to a better acquaintance!"  Joe drained his mug, and so did Boniface, though with fear and trembling.  "Now, landlord," said Joe, wiping his lips with his coat;- sleeve, "you are a fool. But'it is no fault of yours. .Your lazy frame is so beswaddled with fat, and your thimbleful of brains so befuzzled with beer, that you can't tell the differ- ence between a clown and a nobleman. You think that lT am not respectable enough for your taverhn. - But know you, old Butter-face, I am intending to stop here for a month , and you must serve me with the best your house affords, and i  v      8      r GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: that will be too poor for a man of my quality. Be mause I caine on foot, you stare -and scowl, and look as suspicious as a policeman, and as if afraid I hadn't a shilling to pay for my beer. Here, then; take your pay for two pints out of that!"' said he, throwing down a hundred-pound note. , The host looked ,at the note, then at Joe, and was more disconcerted than ever. "He is a highwayman, most prob- ably," thought he, though he answered, "Oh! it's no consequence about the beer. I can't change this note." "All right," said Joe, putting it back in his pocket. "' It : is very kind in you to stand treat on so, short an acquaint- ance. Show me my room now, if you please. I want to wash off the dirt and dust; and then I wantIsome supper,- the best you have got. Do you understand, old Butter- face?" The landlord went to the door, and looked anxiously forth to see if the boy had not returned with a constable. But neither boy nor constable was to be seen; and then, very i reluctantly, he led his. unwelcome guest up stairs. They passed the open door of a large and well-furnished room, and on towards the back part of the house, till they came to a small room with little furniture, and that old and rickety; and to this room Joe was shown. "This for me!" said Joe indignantly. "Never do at all. Take my bundle of duds into that other room!" "Oh! that is my best room. Lord Dawdley occupies that room when in town-; and the Duke of Botchester was once detained in town on his way to London, and slept in that very room;- anid my wife has now got the sheets he slept ih, and has never allowed them to be washed." ' "I dare say they needed- it badly enough, however,' said Joe.  "But take my bundle in there, if you please; and just shut up your clam-shells, and let me hear no more of your gab!"                -  There was no resisting that order; and the rotund, pale, and affrighted landlord escorted Joe into the room made sacred from having been occupied by Lord Dawdley and the Duke of Botchester.          -  The landlord threw the' bundle on the floor, as if fearing it was infested with some contagious disease, and then re- ]treated towards the Idoor; and Joe, closely following him-.   A FAMLY HSTORY.         9 up, shut it to, and locked it, and then, opening Lis bundle, proceeded to wash himself and change his linen. On return- ing to the office below, the distracted landlord found that the boy had re'turned with the constable ;'4 but when he had told his story, that the man to be arrested had called for beer for two, and offered to pay with a hundred-pound note, and had committed no- breach of the peace, but was quietly locked up in his own room, the officer declined to interfere. He may be a lord in disguise," said the innkeeper. "Why didn't I think of that before? . Perhaps a Scotch lord. I'm sure he's no Englishman, nor is .he an Irishman. How stu- pid I was not to, think of that before! Yes: he must be a lord. Of course he must be; for he said he took a fancy to me at first sight. Nothing like blood: you cari see that by look- ing at me., My mother was a waiting-maid t0 Lady Dum- pledon; and, though I say nothing against my mother (and I , say it who ought not to say it), I have noble blood in my veins. And Lord Dumpledon set me up in this business. So, of course, this man is a lord, or how could he have taken such a liking tor me and my house? There is'a fellow-feeling among people of noble blood; always is: 'birds of a feather,' you know." The officer, finding that the culprit he was to arrest had turned out a lord, having moistened his clay at his host's expense, went about his business; and the now-delighted landlord, feeling confident that he had one of the nobility in his care, and keeping, went and ordered such a supper as would be ' meet and meat for so distinguished a guest. In about half an hour, Joe re-appeared below; and the host, much to his surprise, was now all politeness and attention. He invited, him into a sitting-room, and, most obsequiously asked what his lordship would please to have. "ordship,' lordship! Ha, ha!' How' did you find that G out? Show me the rascal that told you I was a lord!" O Oh! we men of noble blood can always tell; and, you understand, my mother- but no matter for that. My father was a lord: perhaps you knew him?-Lord Dumple- don., "What! are you a son of my old friend, Lord Dumpledon? Why, I might have known that, you are so like him. He  ,! was a fat old beast; and there's where you got your pig's eyes and butter-face. But what have you got for supper? Hurry up; I am sharp set as a shark."   10      GOMEY OF MONTGOMERY: ,              . "Your lordship shall be served directly," said the man lf noble:blood, bowinghimself obsequiously from the room. In a short'time he returned, and said his lordship's dinner was ready, and with great formality bowed him into the dining,-room, where a repast was prepared that was indeed fit for-a lord. Joe brought to the charge an appetite worthy of the entertainment; arid, when he had concluded, he went into the hall, and from there to the front of the house, where he seated himself in full view of the street and- town, and to the horiorror of his host, and the surprise of the villagers, "many of whom, having heard that a lord was at the inn, had gathered round to get a sight of him, - he took out his old " black pipe from his pocket, and, filling it with chips cut from a plug of old Virginia, ordered Butter-face to bring him a light. The order was instantly obeyed; and the newly creat- ed-peer began to send forth the white smoke, that curled with aristocratic grace as it'mounted up tlirough the evening twilight.  -The next morning Joe ordered writing materials, and wrote the following letter:-  LADY BERESPORD,-- Being in possession of information. of great interest. to yourself, and no less to your reputed father, Lord Maccleton, I take this method of informing you in what manner it can be obtained. The purport of my in- formation you may surmise, if you will recall the earliest recolectidns of your childhood, - the time when you lived in the backwoods of America, and you were carried away a cap- tive: by an old Indian, the house where you lived burned down, and all your friends- murdered. Lord Maccleton can explain every thing; but, if he declines to do so, you can learn more by sending a letter to me at the Golden Bull; in London, :Iolborn, where all inquiries will be answered. , ; \ XYours to command, I JOSEPH PORTER This letter Joe posted for himself, and then returned to : the inn, where he was treated with nmost oppressive con' descension. In the everting, he called in several of the villa- gers, and told the host to treat them all to the best in his cellar, He asked him if he knew how to make flip. ' Flip? Ah! yes; no. Scotch drink, I suppose? No: the last of the tap was drunk when Lord Dumpledon was here."   A FAMLY HSTORY.        " "The devil it was!) Ah! I remember his lordship was very fond of it. But never mind: give the boys plenty of beer and gin, and charge it all to me." He then singled out the raggedest and dryest looking of the crowd, and brought them in, and made them drink; and, calling in all the others who had collected outside, he kept up such a run on the cel- lar, that poor Pilicod was driven to desperation serving his thirsty customers. "  You might know he was a lord," said one, "by his being so noble and gen'rous, and willing to drink with poor people. It's: only the rale old nobles that dare-to be civil to the likes of us. Take your rich men that have just made their money, and they are afraid to speak to anybody that is not a lord. i So hurrah for the old aristocracy!" " The crowd was getting fast inebriated, and gave a yell. for the nobility in general, and its distinguished member now present in particular; when Joe, bidding the landlord keep the ale running, quietly withdrew, and went to his own room.  Before the' crowd dispersed, there were several broken heads and bloody noses; and the landlord thought, that, if he were to have many such lords at his house, its reputation would be in danger. The next day, Joe told his host that he liked his house so much, that he should probably stop with him for several weeks; but begged that he might be treated as an ordinary guest, and not as a lord. "Yes, yes; I understand," said Boniface. "Your lordship has come away into these quiet parts to have a little quiet, and get away from the noble company that is now probably roaming about in the Highlands." In the course of the day, he was called upon by the local dignitaries, who proffered their services to render agreeable his stay in the obscure, town; which he had honored by his presence. But Joe told them he Wanted quiet rather than attention; though, in his travels, he was always glad to learn as much as possible of the principal families; and, during the the time of his stay, he should busy himself in gathering up bits of history of the place, which information he should make use of in the great book he was preparing. But, in all his inquiries, he always reverted to one subject; and that was Beresfordl Hall and its occupants. SHe coulid gather little, [: 1.   . .f. I  ["  ,  : ,  ,  '.*    12      GM]ERY OF MONTGOMERY " however, from the- town's-people save that it was reported that Lady Beresford was a miserable and unhappy woman; that she was not on goods terms with her father, Lord Mac- cleton, who had never been to visit her; and that her hbus- band was a dissipated rake and spendthrift, and ran riot with all the loose characters of the county. Joe sharply caught at every scrap, of information bearing upon the inmates of Beresford Hall, and was not displeased to find how well every thing that happened there was known at the neighboring town, He expected, therefore, soon to hear of a new commotion there. Nor was he disappointed. About three days after he had- posted the letter signed "Joseph Porter," there was a rumor in town of a great tumult at the hall; that Lady Beresford had been taken strangely, and had raved about the house, calling her father a murderer, tearing her hair, and shrieking like a mad woman; that she had shown such violence, and altogether cut up so, that she-had been locked up in her room; and had since been so ill, that Lord Maccleton had been sent for, and there was great fear that her ladyship hadl gone crazy. This information did not surprise Joe very much; for he felt assured that his letter had caused this great commotion. His object at the town had now been accomplished; and, two days after, he told his host that he' thought he would leave. So, having paid his bill, he took his bundle on his shoulder, and trudged back the way he had come, and, about eleven o'olock, stopped at the lodge to talk with his old friend the porter. The old mtan was now free to converse, ,and told him that there was sad trouble at the hall; that the, mistress was mad, and like to die ;- and her father had been sent for, and had arrived at the hall' for the first time' in sixteen years; and having gone into the room where Lady Beresford was lying on a sofa, in presence of her maids, she sprang up at the sight of him, and held out a letter, and, with eyes flashing fire,. cried out, "I knew it! I remember all about it! \ The old Indian --my mother- my father! Oh, you killed them! Let me o! I will go! I will go to London, and find out all about it "And then, with a shriek that could be heard all through the hall, she fell senseless on the floor; and then the old lord, her father, caught the letter from-her hand, and left the room; and having warned all the servants; that, if they ever mentioned the affair to anybody,   A FAMLY HSTORY.        13 they would all be sent to Botany Bay, he left the hall immedi- x ately. "Notwithstanding being thus warned," said the loqua- cious porter, " the stupid, disobedient servants are all talking About it to everybody; and I am the only one -on the place that has sense enough to say nothing about it." Joe com- mended the honest lodge-keeper for his fidelity and caution; and the latter having ordered the old woman to bring two pints of beer, some cold meat, and bread and cheese, the two held a discussion over the collation, such as would have done credit to princes of the blood royal of England. Joe was now satisfied that the train was laid, and that -an explosion must sooner or later take place; that the avenging Nemesis which had so long pursued the unrepentant Lord Maccleton must soon, amid the glare and scorn of the world, hurl him, in ignominy and shame, to destruction. He therefore concluded that he would return to London, and there await the issue of events. So he-bade the porter and his wife good-by, and directed his steps to the nearest post- road, By the first coach that came along, he took passage to the great city. On reaching London, and taking a survey of the field, he was convinced ,that the house, of Sir Henderson Strongham  was the place where he could best learn of those coming events in which he was most interested. The whole matter of Lady Beresford's strange illness and strange conduct was sure to be talked about above-stairs and-below-stairs; and it was Joe's next scheme to get into the baronet's house in some capacity as a servant. Joe, as the reader has seen before this, was a genius. Whenever he had a will,to do a thing, he always found a way. For an ordinary man, no matter how competent or honest; he may be, it is :next to impossible to force his way into the service of an English family of established wealth and position. The servants grow up a part of the household, and, like the -bleached servants of 'our Southern brethren," often have ties of blood to connect them to the family. Joe easily found the city residence of Sir Henderson; and by a judicious use of money expended in beer, and his unfailing fund of strange stories, he contrived, in the course of three or four weeks, to work himself into a familiar and confidential acquaintance with most of the servants belowestairs. By a: singular coin- VOL. II.    2 ,   "      GOMERY OF MHONTGOMERY : cidence, of which he had taken warrant, and provided for its occurrence, one of the kitchen-servants received a letter from a friend in the country, saying that his mother was very sick, and desired to see him. The boy got leave of absence for a month; and Joe, by another strange coincidence, hap- pened to be conveniently near, so as to be asked to fill the vacancy. As the boy was leaving to visit his affectionate parent, Joe took him aside, and told him that he would not touch a cent of the wage, but leave-it all for him on his return, even if he staid away for a whole quarter; and as an earnest of his intentions, and a reward for his filial affection, ashe assured him, he slipped five guineas into his hand, and with a warm shake of the hand, and trembling voice, he bade him good-by.  '   i '-  , -           ' , , .   f A FAMTTLY HSTORY         15  CHAPTER      IL. "Like to the Pontic Sea, Whose icy current and compulsive course Ne'er feels retiring ebb, but keeps due on To the Propontic and the Hellespont; Even so my bloody thoughts, with violent pace, Shall ne'er look back, ne'er ebb to humble love, Till that a. capable and Wide revenge Swallow them up," - OTHELLO. JOE, PUMPAGINr, having thus secured a place in the baronet's kitchen, was in a position to observe the denouement of the great tragedy that had been working to its catastrophe for so many, many years. He was aware that an effort to discover him would be made by Lady Beresford; and the lodge-keeper's story of the interview between her and Lord Maccleton,eof the seizure and reading of the letter by the latter, left no doubt in his mind that two parties, but with very different. objects, wouldbe in search of him. The address he had given in the letter was doubtless known to both parties. It was at a well-known public-house, where he had frequently stopped, and with the hostess of which F6 was well acquainted. Very probably Lord Maccleton would go there, and inquire of her if she knew of such a person as Joseph Porter, probably an American. Joe then thought that he had not observed his  usual caution in signing his letter with a name having the same initials of his own. However, he went to the place which he had designated, and inquired ifanyi letter had been left there for a man by the name of Porter. "Why, yes, Mr. Pumpagin," answered-the hostess. "A man as was a lord, I  think, for 'e came in a grand carriage as 'ad a coat of harms on the panels; and 'e axed for it, and I showed it to 'im, and 'e threw down 'alf a crown, andtook-it away. I should not 'ave let 'im 'ad it; but'e was such a fierce-looking man! He was an old man with gray 'air and whiskers; and'e could look at nobody in the face, but was allers turning his face as if there was somethintg hawful right before 'i. :'E   16       GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY:. told me,'if I would keep all other letters that came to thf same man for 'im, 'e would give me a guinea apiece for 'em.: "Well,'? says Joe, "there is a friend of lmine down to the King's Arms, Cheapside : his name is Alden, - Oliver Alden. He is expecting letters here; and as he is sick, and can't come for them himself, you will keep them till I call for them. Here is half a guinea to make you remember." "'Bring him hup 'ere. There is no better place in hall London for a sick man than the Golden Bull." "He is too sick for that now; but he may come when he, is i better. Don't forget the name now: here, let me write it down on a bit of paper., Then, taking up pen and paper from tie desk,.he wrote the name, and handed the slip to the buxom, hostess. "Holiver Halden. 'I will remember," placing the name in a little rack that was fastened to the wall, and was intended to hold letters and odd memorandums.' "Now," said Joe, if any letter comes to my friend Olivei' don't put it up there, and don't let anybody else see it; folr, said he in a whisper, ,' I am afraid the police are after him. Just hide the letter till I call for it, and it will be all right." The plump-faced, good- natured hostess said she'knew a thing or two; and Joe, bidding her good-by, returned to his duties in Sir Henderson's kitchen. A few days after, it was reported among the servants that Lady Beresford was coming to town; and that, being seriously ill, her father, Lord Maccleton, had come before her to make arrangements; and that, as the town residence of his lordship was. undergoing extensive repairs, she was coming to stop at Sir Henderson's. Lady Beresford was said to be sick in body, and worse in mind, as one of the maids had heard his lordship say to his sister, the baronet's wife. It was known that he had held several very long interviews with' his sister; and when, a few days after, she arrived, there was a mystery and secrecy ob- served by the servants, that greatly provoked their curiosity, and was sure to draw out the reasons for it. Joe was now in the same house with Lady Beresford; and his next object was to convey a message to her. He saw thiat she was closely watched and guarded, and that only by shrewd management and tact could he hope to convey to her any warning or message. But Joe, as has been seen and said, was a genius, and no ordinary genius either. HHe wan one of those who had the mastery of his accidents, and, when necessary,   A FAMLY HSTORY.         17 could create occasions and means to accomplish his purpose. He wrote the following, on a small slip of paper; and, folding it/ over till it was not larger than a shilling, he awaited till he could find or make his opportunity:- "Lady Beresford, - Lord Maccleton got the other addressed to Joseph Porter. Write again to Oliver Alden, -same place." This note Joe carried in his pocket for three days, and could find no means nor think of any device to send it to her ladyship; till one morning hemet her maid in the kitch- en, bearing on a tray an invalid's breakfast. "Who is that for?" asked Joe.  "My mistress, Lady Beresford, of course," replied the maid, turning from him with a look that said that he had no busi- ness to ask such impertinent questions. At that instant, Joe hurled the large butcher-knife which he held at that moment in his hand across the room, into a sh'elf of crockery. The crash caused the maid in alarm to look in the direction of the noise ;. and at the instant Joe deposited his letter between two slices of dry toast that were on the tray. He then ran to see the cause of the disaster, and began swearing at the d-.-d cats while the maid hurried away to berlmistress's apart-' ments. He inferred that the note was received; for the next day it was reported below-stairs that Lady Beresford was so much better, that she insisted on driving out and the horses and carriage were ordered for that purpose. Lady Strongham insisted on accompanying her dear niece; though the latter said it was unnecessary, as she was quite well, and able to go by herself and maid. The evident determination of the old lady to accompany her showed very clearly to Lady Beresford that she was closely watched, and that it was the purpose of her dear relatives to defeat any efforts she might make to com- municate with anybody else. The position in which she found herself, however, served to convince her that it was necessary to preserve her self-control; that, whatever might happen to her, she must not again give way to her emotions as she had done at the hall on the receipt of the letter of Joseph Porter." She now had a part to act, an object to accomplish; and, if she would succeed, she must steel her nerves to callous insensibility, and wear a placid face to conceal the workings of an indignant, raging, stormy heart. She must now call into action powers such as she had never 2*   18     . GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: exercised, andwhich she was not sure that she possessed. Sentiment and emotion must now be subordinate'to the Will; and the demonstrative woman must become the self-re. strained, impassive actress. Her object now was to get a letter unobserved into the post-office, and above all things avoid exciting suspicion. -She saw it would be far better not to make the attempt then than to make it and fail. She would therefore be prepared-with her letter; and, if the opportunity offered, avail herself of it; and if not, would bide her time. Joe Pumpagin had no doubt, when he heard that Lady Beresford was going out for a drive, what was the object of it; and, with the celerity of genius, he contrived to have the coachman where he could not be found when he was wanted. Then, much against his will of course, he consented to serve in that capacity himself. On entering the carriage, Lady Strongham, asked her niece whither she cared to go. "To see the parks and streets," said the latter, sinking back disheartened into her seat. They drove about for two hours; but never once did Lady Beresford look out, or pay the least regard to her affection- ate aunt, who was calling her attention to many objects of public interest as they drove ththem. In the course of- the drive, however, the elder lady had occasion to stop at a dry- goods store to make some purchases. While she was thus engaged, Lady Beresford looked out, and inquired of the footman if there was a post-office near by. "Don't know of any," said the handsome youth. "Ay, ay, your ladyship," said Joe, jumping down- to the sidewalk. "There is one just around the corner: give me your letter." The manner of Joe disarmed the lady; and she gave him the letter, which he" contrived to receive at the same time that he directed the footman's attention in another direction. He passed round. the nearest corner, and, as soon as out of sight, put the letter in his pocket, and returned just in time to prevent the footman from answering the question of Lady Strongham as to what had become of him. lHe knew that the first :question of the suspicious lady would be for the ab- -sent coachman, and that the handsome lout in livery would have'no more sense than to blurt out the truth, - that he had gone to post a letter for her ladyship in the carriage; and that then 'there would, sooner or later, follow an explosion. So,   A FAMLY HSTORY.         119 as .soon as hbe saw her come out of the store, though s me dozen yards distant, he sung outto the footman to open the door, thus saving him the necessity of answering the question that she was asking at the instant. He instantly came up and closed the carriage-door, and ordered the footman to his place, whispering to him so loud at the same time  as to be sure that he was overheard, that they had capital beer round the corner. ' Then he asked the ladies where next; and, as or- dered, climbed to his seat, and drove home. As soon as his horses were stabled, he hied away to a quiet corner where no one could see-him; and, drawing forth the letter be had pretended to post, he broke the seal, and; read as follows:- "Whoever you are, I must see you. I remember that dreadful night. Who-are you, and who 4m I? My maid only is true to me; yet Lord Maccleton has feed her for his, service, and thinks her his spy. I shall send her every week to the Holborn office to inquire for a letter for Rebecca Pat- terson. Write to that address, and I shall always get your letters." The means of communication were now established; but Joe knew too well the character of Lord .Mac-cleton to ven- ture on any thing at present that could more than excite suspicion. He knew that this man, whose evil genius he was, was of a position so elevated, and of a character so honorable, \ , that, however hideous a crime he might commit, he would, with ordinary caution, never be suspected. More than forty years before, he hadcommitted a greqt crime, which, though he might have regretted, he had never repented. -Through all these long years, he had steeled himself to a callous disre- gard of that vengeance which pursues the wicked; and Joe Pumpagin knew too well the danger to Lady Beresford, if Lord Maccleton was not first made to understand that there were others than herself possessing his dreadful secret, and that there was an unseen avenging: hand that he could nei- ther reach nor stay. He knew, therefore, that he must-exer- cise great caution and circumspection. But, first of all, it was necessary to have an interview with Lady Beresford; and it was his next effort to create an op- portunity. If it be true that fortune favors the brave, it is no less so that genius controls' its accidents. Joe's eyes were open to take advantage of any occasion that should favor his,   20      GOAEmRY OF MONTGOMRY : design. He had laid aside, as far as possible, his chalacter as a joker,-and quoter of Shakspeare; and sought to make him- self. master of the establishment of Sir Henderson Strong- ham. At this time, Sir Henderson was in the heyday of his prosperity. He was the head of one of the largest banking- houses in the United, Kingdom; and, for the two reasons of pride and policy, he entertained munificently. One day the orders were sent to the kitchen, that, on the second day fol- lowing, a dinner was to be prepared of a most sumptuous character. Indeed, itr was to be a dinner fit not only for a lord, but for lords, dukes, and marquises. Little did Joe care for the high-sounding names that reached the kitchen, and impressed the other servants with a sense of awful gran- deur and responsibility. But, when he heard that among the guests were to be two American gentlemen, his curiosity was excited; and he sought out the head servant to learn their names. - The major-domo did not remember the name of one of them; but the other, he said, was Gomery, or Montgomery, he was not sure which. Though Joe did not suppose that the possessor of this name was any connection of his old friends at the Pivot, yet the familiar sound excited his curi- osity; and he was as anxious to get a sight of him as Morgi- ana was to get a look at the mysterious oil-merchant who would. eat no salt. When the guests began to arrive, Joe contrived to place himself. so as to get a sight of them all; and great was his surprise when he saw his old friend Theron Gomery, now a fine-looking, tall, and muscular man, descend from a carriage at Sir Henderson's door. The old man who came with him he did not recognize. Joe was now all excitement, and would have given much to have been an unobserved witness at the dinner-table. He would have resorted to his usual expedient of getting one of the table- servants put out of the way but for fear of being recognized by his former friend. It is true, more than a dozen years had passed since they had last seen each other, and the younger of the two had greatly changed during the time; but Joe had not changed in the least particular. At twenty-five he might have been taken for forty-five, and at forty-five he might have passed for-sixty. He therefore contented him- self with making himself agreeable to the coachman who had \driven his friend, from whom he learned where he was stay- ing, and resolved to find him early the next day. **  * I ' -  -  '  ' " '  ' .  ' ,  , '  ,  :  ', . .  .   A FAMTIY HSTORY.  '     21 Accordingly, the next morning, at about nine o'clock, he made his way to that part of the city where Gomery lodged, and" presented himself at the number given by the Coach- man the night before. It was opened by a tall and well-trained flunkey, who, seeing a man, apparently of-the ordinary walks of life, before him, stared ;at him with that freezing civility which said, without words, "What the devil are you here for?" "Take up my card to Mr. Gomery," said Joe. "Mr. Gomery is at breakfast, and can't be disturbed,' re- plied the flunkey. "Take up my card, sir, or I will throw you into the street t"' said Joe, moving towards him, and crowding inside the door, which he shut behind him. The flunkey, in despair and dismay, took the card, and, glancing his eye over it, saw written in pencil, "Old Joe." Then he looked at Joe; then he said," Isn't there a mistake?" But he saw at a glance in Joe's eye that there was no mis- take; and casting a look about the hall, that Joe understood to be a charge of theft or thieving purpose, he glided up stairs, and laid the card on the table by the side of Gomnery, saying apologetically, "The man made mre bring it up, sir." . "Old'Joe!" said Gomery: "Old Joe!' who is he? Old Joe! by the living hokey, it must be Old Joe Pumpagin I It is he, I really believe. Show him up, show him up! quick, you staring blockhead! show him up!" The flunkey departed; and Gomery, turning to the old man, who was unfolding the "Times," said, "This Old Joe is friom my native place. He was the Yorick of my hoyhood ; (a fellow of infinite jest, of most excellent fancy. He hath borne me on his back a thousand times." "Ay, ay," said Joe, entering the room, "and taught you Shakspeare into the bargain." The greeting he received was so frank and cordial, that the flunkey was utterly dumfounded, and withdrew, muttering to himself that "these Americans were a werry wulgar people.", "Uncle Fogue, this is my old firiend, Joe Pumpagin, that I have not seen before for a dozen years."  Uncle Fogue bowed with aristocratic punctilio, and went on reading his paper. A hurried conversation was now held between Theroin -.-   22       GOMERY .OF MONTGOIMERY: and Joe, in which the latter said, in answer to a question as to6 where he had been, and what he had seen and done, during the last dozen years, that- it would take a big book to contain all his adventures in that time; and that he must postpone his narrative to a more convenient season. He asked, in return, what had brought Theron to England; and the latter answered, that it was business of great importance. "Since I last saw you at Montgomery," he said, " 1, too, have had quite an eventful life. I am a rich man now; have a wife and two children; and have been selected, with my uncle here (whom you have, perhaps, heard us talk about when boys), at a council of capitalists to come over here, and have an inter- change of views on the financial interests of the two coun- tries, more especially in regard to the political necessity and duty of concentrating the permanent wealth of our country in the hands of an upper class, or privileged aristocracy, and by that means wielding such. an influence as to direct and control the policy of our own government, as it is controlled here, for the benefit of the higher classes." "You have very different ideas to what your father, the old squire, had," said Joe. "And very different to what I had myself when I was younger. 'But wealth works great changes in the ideas of men. When we get property, we are not satisfied with its possession and enjoyment during our own lives merely. How much more satisfactory to feel assured that our children and grandchildren will enjoy it after us! And then what a grand thing to be the founder of a noble family! Our coun- try is yet:young; and-those who now take the initiative will be known in history as the oldest and most honored aristoc- racy.". "' Then I suppose," said Joe, "you intend to be a lord; at least, a duke or marquis. J' If we can effect the change, I shall have aspirations of the kind. It may be we are reckoning our chickens before they are hatched; but Uncle Fogue and I have been consid. ering what titles we will take, supposing we can get the aris- tocratic principle grafted into our constitution and society. It is customary in this country to take a title corresponding with the name of the. section, town, or county where the family has lived: and my uncle here is sorely puzzled what title to assume, and what to have for his coat of arms; for he says   A FAMLY HSTORY.         8' his father, when he married his mother, had-no coat to his arms. As for me, I shall seek to show my respect for the old place at the Pivot, and shall take the first name of the hill,--Gault, Duke of Gault. I think that would sound well; and then my oldest son can be known during my time as Lord Gomery, or Marquis of Montgomery; and of course, after me, he will be Duke of Gault." "Perhaps the Gaults may have something to say on that question," said Joe. "The Gaults,! The Gaults are all dead long ago." "Perhaps not. But, if they never appear to claim their own, 'tis not your fault. So long life to Lord Gault! and that old man- what is to be his title?" \ "That we can't pgree on; but his family crest is to be an oyster-shell, as hisd father made ihis fortune in the oyster business. But we Will talk over these matters -at another time. I have an engagement now; and, at three o'clock this afternoon, Mr. Fogue and myself are to meet a number of the heaviest bankers and capitalists in England, when mat- ters of the greatest financial and political importance are to be discussed. So come and see me again to-morrow morn- ing early." - "Youl would not suspect it," said Joe;" but the fact is, I have some little business with the aristocracy, as well as yourself, just now; and, not to go any farther, I am even now serving as a menial in the house of Sir Henderson Strongham, and it was thus that I learned of your being here. I am acting a part, and in a character, that no man living, save myself and your honored father, has any knowl- edge of. I, as well as yourself, have been favored by fortune in getting money; and it is not for wages: that I am in Sir Henderson's service. But it would serve my purpose far bet- ter if you would, during your residence in London, make me your head servant, or major-domo. I know London well, and have learned something of the fashionable ways, and can serve you well at the same time I serve myself." , That is Just what I would have above all things," said Theron; "and I will give orders this instant that you are to have unlimited' authority, and that whatever you say or orlder is to be taken as coming from myself."* 'I Gomery here touched the bell, which brought Mr. Flunk to the door. "Mr. Flunlk,' said he, "Mr, Pumpagin is to be   24      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: my steward or head man. What he says, I say; what he orders, I order; what he wants, I want. Do-you understand, Mr. Flunk?" ",Shall be wery 'appy to serve the genTman; but 'opes 'e 'as took no hoffence for not taking-hup 'is card." "You do great credit to your class and education, Mr. Flunk. You combine perfectly that insolence and sycophan- cy essential to an English servant. See, now, that my friend has every respect shown him." "Of course, I respects my betters," said the flunkey, as he withdrew from an interview apparently not to his taste. "And that is, the style of abject creature, to which you would reduce free and enlightened Americans, is it?" said Joe.: "If the old squite were to overhear you, and know what you were about, he would disown you. In fact, I am ashamed of you myself." "Ah, well! you will think better of it after I have talked with you again." "I will be back here this evening," said Joe; "and then we will, over a mug of flip, talk not only of this, but of many other things. So good-by till then." Joe left the house; and, returning to Sir Henderson's, he announced that unforeseen events required him to leave, even though he forfeited a quarter's wages. When asked if the police were after him, he winked mysteriously, and begged them -to say nothing. The steward paid him off, glad to escape the scapdal of having a jail-bird found on the prem- ises. The evening found him domiciled with his old friend. *  '  i    i -   A FAMLY HSTORY.          25 CHAPTER III. "So wills the fierce, avenging sprite, Till blood for blood atones: Ay, though he's buried in a cave, And trodden down with stones, And years have rotted off his flesh, The world shall have his bones I "- THOMAS HOOD. THAT afternoon, the meeting of capitalists, of which Theron had spoken to Joe, took place in one of those Downing-street bank parlors where such magnates w'ere wont to assemble in force when any important affairs requiring combination and accord of action were to be considered. On this occasion, a subject was to be discussed that had engaged the attention of the rich and conservative classes for a long time. A dain- ger to their influence and position had been-descried in the political firmament; and this meeting was to be an initiatory effort to organize the means to avert it. To repder it at all effective, it was necessary to enlist the active rather than the dormant wealth of the country, as it is well known that the real men of power in England are those who can influence the floating capital that lubricates the wheels of commerce. The landed business-despising aristocracy may combine and knock their heads together till, the little brains they have in ' them are addled; but without the aid and practical -support of the parvenu commoners, whom they tolerate, fear, and de- spise, they can accomplish nothing, and they know it. Though on this occasion it was felt to be so essential to combine the floating and uninvested capital of the country, it was neces- sary to omit from its invited participants the most important of all. One firm, or rather one family that wielded more of the active capital of Europe than any other, and proba- bly more than all who would meet on this occasion, must be left out; for it had a policy very different and distinct from that of the Established-Church aristocracy.- This firml still bore the curse of their ancestors, who had invoked the blood VOL. 11.      8 I    26       OMErY oF MONTGOMERY: of the Son of man on them and their children. -\They could not be expected to sympathize with a movement that was intended to strengthen and perpetuate a form of religion that disfranchised them, and were wisely-left out. But, though this was to be a meeting of those men who had an active and palpable influence, it was felt indispensable that a certain number of the landed, established aristocracy should give it their countenance and support. A sufficient number of that class accordingly were present, however, to give assurance, that, generally they would heartily co-operate in the movement. The attendance of the Duke of Manny- fields was therefore secured, as he was of such vast wealth, and had such immense landed interest, that his bare name, it was thought, would insure the concturrence of the entire landed aristocracy. His presence was desired, rather to mark the character of the meeting than to profit0 by his muddy suggestions. He was accordingly made chairman of the select meeting. In accepting the chair, he would be ex- pected to make a few remarks on the subject that had called them together. His speech was both worthy of the man and the class to which he belonged. He said, "In accepting the- honor conferred' upon me by the distinguished gentlemen who compose this meeting, I feel that I should do injustice to my own feelings if I did not express my sincere thanks. I cordially concur in the object of this meeting. The subject which it is proposed to consider is one to which my attention has long been directed. I am not ignorant of the dangers which threaten, and which it is the object of this meeting to take measures to avert. It is known to us all that the people across the water have enjoyed a, kind of general prosperity that threatens the safety and perpetuity of our rights and privileges. Indeed, I may say, the very throne, now occu- pied by a prince of such transcendent talents, of such exalted virtues, such lofty character, as to be known and acknowl- edged as the 'first gentleman in Europe,' -the very throne, I say, is in danger. Under the system of universal suffrage, a great nation is growing up in Ignorance of the first principles of government. Here, where the voters are few, we can, by a judicious use of our wealth and influence, always maintain our rights and privileges; and, on all important questions, we can have the Commons with us. But to buy up a whole people,to have the entire power of the government in the   A FAMLY HSTORY.          27 . hands of the wealthy and the-noble, when every man has a voice in the matter, is preposterous. Hence there is no privi- leged class there, no aristocracy, no immunity of noble fami- lies, and few of the advantages of wealth as enjoyed by us. And the worst feature of the whole is,-that the people there have no idea of their deplorable condition. a Theyre so igno- rant as to think that they are as well off as though they had ,a nobility of blood to direct them and shape their policy. They are so lost to a sense of shame, that they even glory in their self-made men. They boast of their increase in wealth and power, and contrast their plenty and comfort with thlat of the English people; as if the common people had any thing to do with the laws except to obey them, or as if their hap-'  piness and well-being. were a compensation or offset for the lack of a nobility of blood. But, were the evil confined to their own country, we might leave them to their own follies. That, however, is not the case. First, their evil example reached France; and we all know what horrors were com- mitted under the ideas of liberty and equality. And yet, in spite of that fearful havoc, we find the dangerous contagion of ideas has spread into this country; and we have our home demagogues preaching   discontent to- our working classes, and commending American examples to them. Al- ready we hear the mad clamor that suffrage must be extend- ed, and are told by low reformers that the corn-laws must- be changed, and the duties lowered or abolished. Thesp  monstrous innovations are only equalled by each other in, daring atrocity. If the suffrage is extendrd, how, then, are' we to control the votes? To coerce and buy up a few dozen men is easy, but to dictate to as many thousands is too much for any man's rent-roll and the proposed repeal of the corn- laws is a direct blow 4imed at the rights and privileges of the aristocracy. Are not the peers nearly all, large land-: owners? and if our ports are, to be thrown open to foreign corn, so that we can no longer have the monopoly of our own market, how are we to maintain our position?   And they have even the audacity to commend this measure for: the reason that-it will benefit the poor. Has it come to this, then, that the interests of the nobility are to give way that a hungry crowd may be fed? - My friends, it is time to take action in England, in order to break up the nest of political; error in America; and, for one, I am glad that our fieiends *                  ,  ;  '   28 '     GOMERy OPF MONTGOMERY: across the water have been induced to comover here and c' o operate in, this work of general patriotism and international philanthropy  We give them a cordial welcome, and trust that we shall have their views fully expressed on this occa- sion." This speech: was .followed by another, of similar import, delivered by Sir Prosper Neerstickle, who, on concluding, expressed a hope that the distinguishedAmerican financier then present would favor the meeting with his views. Mr. Foguie, taking the invitation to himself, arose, and said thlat he was deeply impressed with the correctness of the view's advanced by his honorable friends, and fully concurred in all they had said. "For myself," he continued, "I have long felt that wealth does not secure to its possessor in my country the advantages to which he is justly entitled. It will buy him houses and lands and luxuries; but that is all. We have no hold on our possessions only so long as we manage them well. A, vast estate,' accumulated by one gen- eration, is very apt to be squandered by the next. Instead of being hedged around and protected by the laws for the- ennobling of a single family, it goes to increase the small estates of the ignoble multitude. Thus, though I count my gains; by millions, what does it amount to? When I am gone, I may be pretty sure that they will all soon follow. I can have no hope of founding a family that hundreds of years hence shall be reckoned among the old nobility. In- stead of retaining in my name the broad acres that are now mine, and which ought to ;be adorned with halls and parks and pleasure-grounds, they will be cut up into small farms; and communites of small farmers and busy mechanics will usurp the soif which ought to be reserved for the nobler purposes of supporting game, and yielding health, exercise, and pleasure to an enlightened and refined aristocracy." At the conclusion of this eloquenlt period, the chairman said, "Hear, hear; " and of course the rest of the company joined in rapturous applause. "But this is not all," contin- ued the gratified Fogue : " even in my own timue, I :have no more power in the government than my servant, who drives my horses. He votes as wellas I, and his vote counts for as much as mine. Ih fact, the man of wealth in the free States of America is the most unfortunate man living: he is really to be pitied. With our Southern brethren, the case is differ:  -    A FAMLY HSTORY.         29 ent: there the rich man owns his laborers, and his condition is similar to that of the landholders heie. Though the poor man there can vote, yet the rich planter has such power, by reason of his numerous dependants and connections, that he can easily render the atmosphere unwholesome; and the poor man there becomes a political nonentity. As for the :slave, he is like the most of your non-fireeholders: he works, and that is his only privilege. The law is made to- protect him, it is true; but the law is read only through the planter's spectacles: as, for instance, my honorable friend, the chair- man of this meeting, has, I presume, the administration of the laws on his own estates pretty much his own way. And that is right; that is as it should be. There is too much of mawkish and mock sentimentality in these degenerate days. The rich and the powerful should be respected and, privi- leged as in the olden time. The case of Uriah the Hittite is an illustration given for our instruction to show ,that the sins of the rich and powerful shall riot be visited against them: and from that day to this David is honored exceed- ingly ; but who ever speaks well of -Uriah the Hittite?" These pious words were warmly commended by the com- pany; and, when Mr. Thomas Fogue. took his seat, it was remarked by several that his speech was the most states- manlike and comprehensive ever made by an American. Sir Philpot Puncheon, a man whose father had begun life as a tapster, and ended it as thie richest brewer in the world, fol- lowed Mr. Fogue, and said he had beerq a close observer of affairs across the Atlantic for many years; and the remarks of his distinguished friend who had just sat down, in relation to the advantages enjoyed by the people of the Southern States over their Northern brethren by reason of theiri more conservative institutions, had struck him as eminently just and true. "It is," he continued, ".the policy of the people of established wealth in England"to cultivate more intimate relations with the only class in America that has in it any of the exclusive or aristocratic element. The interests of wealth are closely linked the world over; and it only re- ' quires an international exchange of ideas, among those who control the capital of the world, to- be able to influence, if not direct, the policy of the governments of the earth. The/ igreat danger now-is that the democratic idea should con- mend itself to the rest of the world by reason of the- pros- *     I,    $3i0     . GCMBRY :OF MONTGOMERY: perity of the working-men of the United States. There must be a grand combination to throw the government into the hands of the rich and conservative; and we imust aid in this good work. The' great central, moneyed institutions must be sustained, that, being owned and controlled by the rich, they can wield a power adequate at all times to defeat any obnoxious party or interest." - Several other short speeches were ihade; and the discus- sion gradually passed into a sort of free-and-easy conference, and finally became a miscellaneous, unorganized meeting. It was decided that d committee should be raised, with full power to act executively in carrying out the views that had been expressed at the meeting. Sir Henderson Strongham was put at the head of this committee, and, Sir Philpot Pun- cheon was made secretary. It was understood and agreed that the proceedings should not be published ini the news- papers, but that the different persons present should talk of the matters discussed in the various circles of their acquaint- ance. That evening, over a mug of flip prepared by Joe, Theron Gomery and his uncle Fogue recapitulated the inci- dents of the day; their conversation being enlivened by the interlruptions and sallies of Joe, who could not forbear ex- pressing his views and quoting Shakspeare as'opportunity offered. The next day, Joe overheard a conversation which led him to suppose that his services would not be in requisition that day or the next. Iti appeared that Gomery and Fogue, Sir Philpot Puncheon and Sir Henderson Strongham, were to leave: London that afternoon, in order to visit the nearest eastle and country estate of the Duke of Mannyfields. Not only, therefore, would Joe himself be disengaged, but the carriage and horses that Fogue and Gomery had hired dur- ing their stay in England would le at his individual service. His plans were accordingly taken with characteristic celerity. He immediately wrote a note to the address of Rebecca Pat- terson, and posted it. In that letter he said, that, at twelve the next day, a carriage would call at: Sir Henderson's for Lady Beresford; and, if she would venture to trust herself to it,she would be taken to a place where she could learn all that any living soul knew of her early life and history. At sharp twelve, the carriage would be in attendance; and she would know which was intended for her, if there chanced   A FAMLY HSTORY.        31 to be more than one, as it would be driven by a stout, pug- nosed coachman, and drawn by a pair- of heavy black horses. At the appointed hour, the carriage was in attendance; and Lady Beresford was prompt to meet it. Lady Strongham, when she saw her niece going out with her maid, objected to her leaving the house, in her feeble state of health, unac- companied by herself, saying that Lord Maccleton had ex- pressly forbidden it. "I am no more his slave than I am his child!" answered Lady Beresford with a vehemence that' quite silenced the opposition of her officious aunt. No sooner h4d she entered the carriage than Joe drove hurriedly awav, taking various by-ways, cross-streets, and sudden turns; going at a brisk gait, so as to render any attempt to follow him, if it were made, unsuccessful. In less than an hour, he stopped in a very respectable street, and before a house of considerable pretensions; though, in one of the windows, a card, with the words, "Apartments to let," was displayed. In front of the house had been standing, for the last half-hou;r, a young man, apparently watching and waiting for some one. No sooner had Joe driven up to the door, and shown Lady Beresford and her maid into the house, than'this youth mounted in Joe's place, and was told by him to drive away, and return in just two hours. Joe then followed Lady Beresford into the house; andXwas shown by the landlady into the same room that he had engaged the day before, and into which Lady Beresford had preceded him. As Joe entered the room, and closed the door after him, Lady Beresford, who had not taken a seat, turned upon him, and asked abruptly, "Whom am I to meet here?" "Me, madam," answered Joe. "Did you send me the letter signed ' Joseph Porter'?" said she with a look of incredulity, disappointment, and surprise. "I did," said Joe. "And do you know as much as you intimate".about me -and my early days?  "More than I have ever intimated. I know more of you," said he, taking a seat, though uninvited, and while the lady was yet standing,- "I know more of you and your history than all other living persons."  - "ady Beresford, still standing, but with her right arm on the shoulder of her maid, and looking pale, agitated,.and anx-   32      GOMEEY OF MONTGO EY : ious, said, "Whoever you are, do not trifle with me: my agony already is greater than I,;can bear. There is, I know there is, something dreadful for me to learn; and for years, since I received a mysterious letter describing and recalling events of my childhood that I had a faint recollection of, but knew not whether they were real or the creations of a distempered fancy, I have not known an hour of peace or rest; and never shall till the mystery is cleared up, and I'know more of myself and my history." "Woman, said Joe. The sound of this word, .pronounced in a familiar and yet a mandatory tone by one who appeared to be but a menial, caused Lady Beresford to start as if touched by a repulsive object. But, quickly recovering herself, she sank into a seat, and said, "I know not who you are; but I beg you to bear in mind that I am not accustoied to be addressed in that manner, at least\by servants." "'Woman," said Joe, leaning forward, and looking her full and sternly in the face, i--"womanl, I am of as good blood as you are.       / ' You, a servant, as good blood as the Cumberlands!" "As good blood as ;you are; and better, I trust, than the Cumberlands." "What mean you by that? I hope you are not "an im- postor.. You claim to have blood like mine!"And the wo- man turned away from t;he coachman with an air in which disgust and pride striuggled, with a desperate will, to achieve a purpose.. 'Woman,"  said Joe, still leaning forward, and looking sternly at her, "fear not that any disclosure that I shall make will discover any taint in your blood; for you are of as pure blood as flows in human veins, and yet not better than mine. And here, on Ithis occasion, I must speak to you as an equal; and, if you will listen to me, you shall hear a tale at which your pure blood shall curdle in your veins, and all you have most prized in life you shall view with horror and abhorrende.    .  "Go on, sir!" "DMadam, this young woman must first leave the room, since no two living souls are concerned, like you and me, to know the awful secret." * The proud woman waved her hand to her maid to with- -  -.   \.   A FAMNLY HSTORY.         33 draw; and, the latter left the roomt, casting back a look that' plainly said she would continue writhin call.;   . No sooner had the waiting-woman left than Joe took off his overcoat, and laid it on a chair, and then, resuming his seat, said, "Madam, it is a long story I have io tell; and'you would do well to lay aside your bonnet and hawl." !"I do not want advice: I want your' story." "You shall have it, and at its conclusion will be ready to take my advice. But first permit me to ask you a question: How old are you?" "If you are curious on that point, you can consult the parish register," replied she, scarcely'able to control herself; and showing that she felt her dignity-insulted at the ques. tion. "I should nqt find it there," said Joe: 'and perhaps I ought not to have asked the question; for I know your age, though you don't."   I  "I want no more of this, sir!" said she, breathing quickly, while the blood left her face, and a rigid pallor overspread her countenance. "Tell me what you have to say, and let there be an end of this business." "Lady Beresford, I will tell you all I know; and, if you will listen, you shall hear enough."- The lady composed herself; sitting upright on the sofa, and, with an air of mixed anxiety and disdain, awaited Joe's disclosure. "You must know," said he, "'that I was born in the forests of New England. My parents were pioneer settlers in the wilderness; and my first recollection is of a log-house in a clearing, on the side of a high hill that commanded a fine view of the country for a great distance round about.. I re- member my father and mother well. My father was a large and powerful man; and my mother, as I recollect her, was a beautiful woman.". "I don't-know that I am  particularly-interested 'in your father and mother," said Lady Beresford. "We Will see how that is," said Joe. a I was just going to remark, that, as I remember her, she looked very much like your ladyship. At any rate, her memory is beautiful, and I loved her very much.  When I was about four years old, I had a sister born; and as my mother had many cares in her forest life, and I had got to be a big boyv, it was lay se   34 '     : GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: great pleasure to play with my little sister, and take care of her, so that my mother; could attend to her household duties, get the dinners and suppers for my father when he was at work in the clearing, make and mend his clothes, and make -happy the humble house in the forest. When my father had finished his work for the day, he always found welcome and anxious eyes watching his return; yet tired as he was, and hard as he worked, he never wan4 too tired to lhave a frolic with his children on the floor, or to carry me on all-fours about the room. We were all very happy then; and, as I grew older and stronger, my baby sister grew prettier, until she  was large enough and old enough to walk alone; and then I used to take her out with me into the fields where my father was at work. The country was then almost an unbroken forest, and there were no neighbors within several miles of our small log-house. It was a long time ago, and during the first war with England (what we call the Revolution); and i as the trees were lewly felled, and the fields were yet full of stumps, and many of the fallen logs were bult partially burnt, we seldom went far from the house. But, one afternoon, I took my little sister (her name was Jtudith), and led her out to where we thought our father was at work; but, not find- ing him, we wandered on over a piede of lately felled trees, when suddenly we were startled by the appearance of a huge black bear, which was moving lazily and awkwardly along over the fallen trees towards a piece of Indian corn that was just then in the-ear. The bear saw us, and, after looking at us a moment, turned away his head, and pursued his way towards the field of corn. But, though he paid no further attention to us, I was, nevertheless, very much fright- ened, and caught my little sister in .my arms, and fled towards the house; and in my. haste I stumbled and fell, throwing my sister on the ground in front of me, and falling forward with my full weight, and striking my nose against a root, breaking in the bridge, and rendering me senseless. Th'e noise we made had been heard by our father, who came running towards us. - My sister he threw on his back, and she clungto his neck like a scared lobster; and me he bore in his arms to the house. My nose was broken, my-face much disfigured, and my parents were greatly alarmed about me. The wound was a serious one: my face soon swelled out of proportion, and there was no doctor to apply to within many   A FAMLY HISTORY.        35 miles. But there was no time to delay. My lhead was bound up with cooling herbs; and my father, mounting his stout old nag, took me in his arms, and we were soon clat- tering down the hillside, along the path or trail that had been made long before bythe Indians. It was a ride of thirty miles before we reached the doctor's house. My father had not spared the horse,; and-we arrived there the same evening of the accident. The doctor examined my wound, and / dressed it carefully, but gave it as his opinion that the broke bridge of the nose could never be restored to its forme' shape, and -that I must always be disfigured. The next morning he examined me again, and advised my father to go no farther; for no surgeon could bring my disfigured probos- cis into shape. My father would not listen to any such idea; and so, early in the morning, he set forth with me again, tak- ing me in his arms, for his native town, thirty miles farther, where lived a surgeon of great local celebrity. We reached there the same night; and the opinion of this doctor was the same as the other's, that my nose could never beyrestored to its original shape, and that the long -ride had done me a great injuly. The wound, by that time, had become very much inflamed; and the doctor told my fathel; that, in his anxiety to save my nose, he had endangered my life., He said I must have quiet and gentle nursing, or I would surely die. The town where the doctor lived, as I said, was my father's native place, and he had a married sister living there; and I was, carried to her house, where I was treated as ten- derly as if I had been her own child. Here, under the treat- ment of the doctor and the loving gentleness of my aunt, I was soon out of danger; and my father departed for home, leaving me to get well, and remain throughll the winter with my aunt, and, when recovered, to att6nd the village school. I never saw my father again."  During this narrative, Lady Beresford scarcely looked at Joe; but, as he stopped here, she turned towards him, and saw the tears in, his eyes, which he was vainly endeavoring to repress. "I -don't see," said she,'" why you shiould tell this long story to me. It does not concern me, as I can see. If you have any thing to say that, affects me, I wish -you to say it. I came here for that purpose, and not to hear your lachrymose story of your father and mother. What are they * to me?"   36       GOME;RY. OF MONTGOMERY: ' Patience a few moments, and you shall know" said Joe. 'Allow me to continue. During the winter succeeding my arrival at my kind aunt's, she told me that she intended al- ways to keep me, and that I must consider myself her boy. I felt that something very bad had' happened; for she could not talk to me without crying. A great many of the neigh- bors came to visit the family then, and they all looked very sad; and they always used to talk. in whispers to my uncle and aunt, so that I should not hear what was said. They al- ways looked at me a great deal, and I could see that I was ' the subject of their conversation. But though I questioned her mrany times, and asked her what made her so sad, she would tell me nothing: and the house was so dismal, that I disliked to stay i-n it; but, as often as possible, I would runi away to play in the streets and fields with other boys of my own age. But the secret could not long be concealed from me. Another boy, with whom I had' quarrelled, and who had got the worst of it, took his revenge by telling me the dreadful -truth. When fairly out of my reach, he turned, and sung out, t' You ugly feller, you!1 your father and moth- er blave been killed by the Indians, and I anm glad of it(! I ran .home to my aunt, and told her what the bad boy had said, and, in great alarm, asked her if it was true. She did not nhed to answer nle. I knew it was so by the look she gave me; -and I burst into tears. :My aunt and my cousins, who were much older than I, soon joined in the melancholy wail; and my uncle, a rough, kind-hearted man, left- the house to avoid joining in the melancholy chorus. "I cried till my strength was gone; ,I cried till I could make no more noise; and then 1 was prostrate and calm.  I asked for the particulars, and was told that a party of Brit- ish and Indians had passed through the country, and by my old home; ahnd that they had killed my father and mother, and' my sweet little sister they had carried into captivity." Lady Beresford gave a, start at this, but, controlling her- self, wag again as impassive as marble, her face pale'as death, her eyes fixed in their sockets, and her lips rigidly compressed.            . 'You look faint," said Joe. "Shall I call for a glass of water?"  "Go on," said the lady, not relaxing a muscle, but sway- ing back and forward under the effort of restraint.   A FAMLY HSTORY.        37 / "! learned no more of this affair for a long time, except that the band of soldiers and savages was commanded by a Col. Cumberland.". Lady Beresford started again, and made a slight scream, but again recovered herself, and told Joe to proceed. "Years after, I learned it all;-how, it matters not now. Col. Cumberland commanded the force that killed my father. He ordered him to be treacherously murdered, all defence- less and unarmed as he was. My sister was borne- away in the arms of an Indian; and, when the party reached Quebec, Col. Cumberland stole her from the savage. To do it, he shot the Indian through the leg with a musket-ball; and, in return, his own only child, a little girl of nearly the same age, on whom his whole fortune depended, was murdered by the vindictive savage. For that child was my sister substituted, and brought to England." Lady Beresford still looked rigid and firm; but the drifted snow is not whiter than was she at that moment. The whole dream or phantasmagoria of her. childhood, which she could never comprehend before, was now plain and clear before her. She saw the part she had been made to play; and the dim, in- distinct recollection of her earliest years;-t of the home in the forest;; of her father and mother, which she had always be- fore regarded as unreal, the creations of a diseased imagina-- tion during a period of sickness in childhood, -now all stood out before her as grim, real, awfuil facts. "My father murdered by Col. Cumberland!" said she, still swaying back and forward, but retaining all her fixed rigid- ity of countenance. "Your father! my father! - your mother! my mother! Hear me nowl   My mother, your mother, was worse than murdered by Col. Cumberland; and then he sent two Indians to cut her throat, while he looked through the win- dow to see the horrid deed committed; and he sees it ever since. Her dying eyes are ever on him; and from the light of her sweet face, and gaping wounds, he ever seeks to turn his eyes." Lady Beresford raised her hands, gave a wild screech, and fell forward on the floor. The noise brought the maid into the room, and soon after the landlady. The latter was well acquainted with the mala- dies of nervous ladies, and had a good supply of the reme- VOL. II.    4   8 18       GOMERY OF MONTXGOMERY:  dies usually employed in such cases; and the two, having loosened the dress of the unconscious lady, with Joe's help placed her on the sofa, and in a few' minutes had her re- stored to consciousness. She lay a full half-hour without speaking a word, occasion- ally casting her eyes at Joe, who sat anxiously watching for the effect that his revelation might have upon her. 'At length she requested the landlady and maid to leave the room again, and then said to Joe, "It is enough for this day. I know it all now; but I have no power to act, no will to decide. You are, then, that brother of whom I have always had a faint glimmer of remembrance! Let me have days, or weeks if necessary, to reflect. Tie world now opens so strangely before me, I know not what path to take. But you, my brother, whom I treated so rudely,--you have done well in pursuing the authors of this dreadful crime. And fear not that I shall shrink from my duty."7 Joe advanced, and gave her his hand, saying, "4I lave now, and have had for many years, nothing in this world to live for but to fullfil the justice of Heaven on those who destroyed our father and mother. It is not vengeance that I seek; but an unseen power, an element of natural justice that permeates the world, impels me tio work. out the inevitable doom of guilt. At the , proper time, the instrument always comes fitted to my hands. I never have aply doubt of what I ought to do. My way is always open and clear before me. The harmony of Nature's laws is such, that he who would do his duty need never hesitate. Shall I go on? Shall I bring ruin on you and - your children? or shall I shrink from duty, and leave to other and unnatural hands the fulfilment of the'decrees of Divine Justice?" "And do you ask me if I shall partake of this wickedness?" said she with a vehemence that startled Joe. s"Shall I be- 'come a party to the great crime 'iy eating the fruits that grow rank from the blood of my father and mothei?" "It is enough," said Joe: " leave the future to itself. Our way from this dark labyrinth will yet be all clear before us. Let us now return. The- carriage waits. You now know who your mysterious correspondent is: when necessary, we can communicate with each other." The party then left the house; and the carriage was driven directly back to the town residence of Sir Henderson' Strong. ham. ,   A PAMLY HSTORY.   1      39 A few days after this, a great dinner-party was given at Sir Henderson'0.' Among the guests were Fogue and Gomery, besides many of the nobility, including Lord and Lady Maccle- ton, the Duke of Mannyfields, Sir Philpot Puncheon, and' Sir Prosper Neerstickle and daughter. Lady Beresford was also of the company. At the table, this lady chanced to be seated between'the two Americans, and opposite to that man whom, till recently, she had always regarded as her fatler. She no- ticed now, more particularly than usual, his nervous twitching of the eyes; for this was the first time she had met him since . she had learned, the cause of this peculiarity. Owing to, the presence of the Americans, the conversation naturally fell, early in the feast, on Aimerica and American affairs. "I have long had a desire," exclaimed the Duke of Mannyfields in a loud and pompous tone, "to visit your interesting country. In my young days, I was a great sporting man; and even now I would like a crack at some of your buffaloes. I did think, a; few years ago, I would cross over, and give a week to that sport. I supposed, that, in a week from the time I left New York, I could traverse your great prairies, and get all the buffalo-shooting I cared for; ascend the, Rocky Mountains, take a peep at Niagara, get back again to New York, and  , be ready to re-embark." Gomery told him, that, in the imme- diate vicinity of New York, buffaloes were getting iather scarce; but, beyond the Mississippi, they still roamed, in vast herds. The noble duke, with that thirst for inforllation char- acteristic of his class, also inquired if the Indians were so numerous in New York as to, constitute a  majority of the people, and if the wild animals Were very dangerous in the outskirts of the city. Poor Fogue, with all his disposition to fawn on a live duke and to flatter him in every way, could not repress a smile, or rather sneer of contempt; but with ready phrase he assured his noble questioner that great changes had taken place in America during the last few years; that now it was quite  saf6 to venture back from such places as Boston, New York, and Philadelphia, as much as fifty miles. "Very different, then," replied the duke, "firom what it was when my noble fi-iend opposite was there. Ilow long is it, Maccleton, since you were last in America?" "I returned the last time in '83." "Indeed," said Fogue. "I was not aware that you had been in America."   40      GOMERBY OP UONTGOMERY: "Ahb, yes i" continued the duke: "my noble 'and gallant friend won great distinction during that foolish war you made against us, and moreagainst your own interests. Indeed, it has ever since been a mystery to me that the independence of the Colonies was ever acknowledged."  "If you- had seen as much of their fighting as I did, the mystery would have been cleared up long ago," replied Mac- cleton.  i' Have you ever been in America, Lady Beresford7?" said Gomery. "I was born there," said she, fixing a look of immobility on Lord Maccleton "Born there!'" exclaimedfthe astonished duke. At this expression of Lady Beresford, Lord Maccleton turned ghastly pale, and gave a start unusual even for him, who was always starting, and turning away from disagreeable objects. He was too well drilled, however; had too long schooled himself to self-control, and was too well aware of  his duty to his rank and class, to falter, even for an instant. "My daughter," said ,he,. " and her mother, went with me on my first campaign in America; and consequently her first rec- Ciollections are of that country.?' "His daughter went with him to America," said she, still keeping the' same steady, fixed look fast upon him. Lord Maccleton started again at this, but not as before. His nerves were-steeled; besides which, the surprise was not so sudden as before. Gomery alone of all the party noticed her words and man- ner, and also their effect on Lord Maccleton. "You must have seen a rude and rough chuntry, then," said Fogue. "I trust you may come over and see- us again, and observe the progress we have made." a"That progress and prosperity,"? said Mannyfields, "I view with great suspicion. They only make your people contented with their vicious form of governmnent. Without an estab- lished aristocracy, you m st drift into license and barbarism. Your theory of democracy is, from the nature of the case, self-destructive and absurd. When the people have not the examples of the nobility to imitate and honor, they necessa- rily fall into depravity, anarchy, and crime; and sooner or later your institutions must be changed. It would be easy to do it how; but the prosperity of the ignorant masses leads ,!   A FAMLY HSTORY.         41 them to believe they are well off, and to rest contented with their absurd government. But it must break up, and it will be well if it does so soon, and before the country becomes so populous, that change will be destructive." "I know there are evils in our social and political organiza- tions," answered Fogue; " but I am hopeful of a change more' gradual, and attended by, less convulsions and disaster than what you apprehend. With the aid and co-operation of the wealth and noble blood of England acting cordially with our; educated and wealthy classes, we expect to work out a great change quietly and with little opposition, and no violence." "I hope it may be so,", said the duke; " but I have no faith in ciemocracy correcting itself. It must first ruin itself and all it touches, and then something better will, succeed." 'Gomcery, not wishing to participate in the political ,discus- sion, turned again to Lady Beresford, and said, "What are your recollections of America? It appears, from a remark of your illustrious fathei; that you were very young when you left there a" "My recollections,'" she replied in a voice loud and clear, that could be heard at either-end of the table, " are of sav- age Indians, and more savage English officers." Lord Miaccleton gave another start, and drank a glass of wine. It was evident to him, that, at last, his long life of crnme was discovered. The words of his reputed daughter were like red-hot' needles in his ears, that pricked through, and at length reached the guilty conscience of the wicked, old, and-honored man. He felt the ground on which he had firmly stood so long, defying God and despising man, slipping from beneath' his feet, and that he and his house were going down to shame and universal contempt. And this was all going on while he was yet honored and respected; and, even in the strongholds of his friends, he saw the hand of justice writing for the world to read his ignominy and disgrace. This member of a privileged class of a great nation, whose members regarded themselves as superior to all other human or earthly things, and who were envied by common mortals' as-beings already'in the third heavens, and to attain which position men would sacrlifice every other consideration, - this man, thus envied, was now the most miserable' wretch in the whole kingdom. No starving mother in a London cellar, who saw her children dying of want before her eyes, ever 4*      ,   42       OOMERY OF MONTGOMERYr felt the acute and agonizing misery of this wretched old man. She could but die, and be forgotten; and her children could bht follow her through crime, misery, and death. But he could not thus die, and be forgotten. He felt that his secret was one "The earth refused to keep." por a long time, he had been receiving occasional hints that his crimes were known, and that a volcano was sm'oul- dering beneath him. ' He had borne the horrid vision before his eyes for years, and passed a life of ever-present horrors, to save his name and his house from infamy. He -would gladly have died at any time for many years past, could he have been assured that his evil deeds should follow hirn to the grave, and never be divulged on earth. But they held him as by a spell to life; and he feltthfat his pursuers only refrained from exposure in order to continue their secret torture, and that his death would be the signal of infamy to his house. Life was horrible; but he dared not relinquish it; for he had grown up in and had always cherished the idea and belief that he belonged to a class not only superior to other men in things temporal, but so transcendently so, that it was for him and such as him to prescribe the form and degrees of reli- gious faith for the National Church, to which all must assent under penalty of forfeitures and disabilities. But now the shell of his self-conceit and complacent superiority seemed to be cracking and crumbling away; and he felt there was a power in the earth superior to the aristocracy of England and its Established Church. Thoughts of this kind passed so rapidly through the mind of Lord Maccleton, as he received, one after another, the remorseless thrusts of Lady Beresfobrd, that, to an extent never before observed, he lost his self-control, and, more abruptly than usual, turned his head in different directions to avert his eyes from the ever-present spectre. Gomety was the only one at the table, besides the lady herself, that ob- served the effect of her enigmatical expressions upon him; but what they all meant, or why she took this occasion to bring her father to shame and remorse, he could not divine. Yet it was clear that there was a dreadful secret between them.                 -   ' .  .  A FAMLY HSTORY.        43 The dinner was at length finished; and the ladies with- drew, leaving the gentlemen to their wine. As- Gomery was not given to deep potations, he followed the young Viscount Muddybumps, who was dying of a passion for the daughter of Sir Prosper Neerstickle (a young lady whose beauty was only excelled by her -fortune), into the company of the ladies a little earlier than their older and wiser companions had raised the spirit-level to its customary after-dinner point. Gomery, as he entered the drawing-roomp had a few words , with one, and then another; and gradually drifted towards a corner where sat Lady Beresford looking over some loose engravings.       , As he approached, Lady-Beresford, without raising her eyes, said, "I was looking for you, Mr. Gomery." Indeed," said he: " you greatly honor me. In such com- pany, I knew I should be the least important person present; and, when out of sight, never expected to be afterwards min mind." "What do you think of that?" said she, placing under blis eyes the first of Hogarth!s series of Love a la mnode. cI am not a proper judge of it as a comment on the social life of England; but I must say, that as ye;t, in our republi- can simplicity, we have little to justify such a reproach." "What do vou think of that, then?" said she, drawing from below, and placing at the top, the scene from the "'Four Stages of Cruelty," by the same master-hand, where ,tle woman is shown with her throat gashed across from ear to ear.,         e - "'That may be truthful, but is certainly horrible, anid is enough to make one shudder at the sight, and keep him awake afterwards.' "Will you please ask Lord Maccleton what he thinks of it?" said she.  , Gomery took up the engraving, and, approaching Lordl Maccleton, said, "Lady Beresford begs me to ask your lordship's opinion of this one of Hogarth's pictures." The noble. lord took out his spectacles, and, placing them astride his nose (averting hs eyes but twice in the while from the apparition invisible to all but himself), took the engraving in his hands; and, after two or three attempts to bring it to the right angle and focus, his eye fell on the figure of the woman, the victim of passion, whose throat   "1M   IOOMERY OF. MOIOTGOMERY had been cut, and who lay dead upon the floor, a horrid illustration of fiendish cruelty. At the first glance, the picture dropped from his hand; and Lord Maccleton fell insensible upon the floor. There was a rush, a tender of helping hands, to the pros- trate and noble lord; but Lady Beresford-sat with a face of marble, looking unmoved on the scene. "Did you notice," said Fogue to Gomery on their way to their lodgings, "how cold and indifferent Lady Beresford looked when her father was in the fit?" "I noticed it," replied Gomery.  A FAMTIY HSTORY,          45 '  , CHAPTER IV. 'Kenit. . . .Such smriling rogues as these, Like rats oft bite the holy cords atwain Which ar too intrince t' unloose; smooth every passion That in the natures of their lords rebels; Bring oil to fire, snow to ,their colder mpoods ' Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon ,beaks With every gale and vary of their masters," - KIrNG LEAR, IT was some five months after Joe Pumpagin hid left Montgomery, and gone off,--for the last time, so far as is now known to this history, -that a sharp-featured, tall, and, precise-looking man made his appearance at Diller's Tavern. He was apparently about forty-five years of age, and might have passed for a clergyman" a lawyer, or a college-professor. He had no ostensible business; and of course the gossips were soon engaged in ferreting out who he was, and what he. wanted. His trunk was marked "S. Mettlar, Boston; " andi when Diller called him  Mr. Mettlar, he answered to the name as his own. He was a tall, thoughtful-looking man, with silver-bowed spectacles; and he had sound, white teeth, that froim long practice hhe had learned to show whenever he opened his mouth, so that he had a continued smirk and smile on his face whenever he engaged in conversation. He was apparently flush of money, and paid the servants for any attentions showed him with a liberality quite un- usual. He had that characteristic of his race, inquisitiveness, which is far more agreeable than taciturnity to the gossips and newsmongers of a New-England village. But he ha4 the more rare faculty of working the mental-pump-handle till he had exhausted the wells of knowledge in others with- out saying any thing himself that could give an idea of what he was seeking to discover.   He secured the best rooms in the Eagle, and did not ask the terms till he had occupied them a week; and then he sent for his bill, and paid it without objecting to an item: at which little Diller was exceedingly astonished; for, 'excepting  Joe Pumpagin, it was a thing he had seldom known before.   "      GOME RY OF MONTGOMERY: The stranger was prompt to make acquaintance with the people of the village. He talked with everybody. If there was company in the bar-room, he was' there, and always. ready to talk, and sharp at gleaning information of the, place by the most innocent, insinuating questions. Though neat and precise in his dress, and evidently not "to the manner born " of the country people whose confidences he sought to cultivate, he yet mingled with them on the most familiar terms; and at the militia training, or in the crowds col- lected around the stores and tavern of a Saturday afternoon, he was always'in the thickest, of the crowd, and ready to drink the New-England rum or potato whiskey with the dryest, and always insisted on paying the score. On several occasions he had met Squire Gormery, and had endeavored to make his acquaintance. But the lawyer at once detected something forbidding and sinister in the man's chiaracter, and allowed neither familiarity nor acquaintance. To allay suspi- cion, the stranger gave out that ,he -Was in bad health, and had come up into the country to get the fresh air of the hills, and recuperate his shattered system. But Mrs. Diller, who suspected mischief, told him plainly that his -appetite was \wonderful for a sick man; and he then said he was seeking materials for a book on the early history of New England. This report being given out, he found people very communicative, and willing to furnish all, they knew, and a great deal more. They were growing suspicious of his curiosity in prying into the private history of the dif- ferent families; but, as soon as it was reported that he was to write a book, they were eager to tell all. about the won- derful deeds of their ancestors, incited thereto by the hope of honorable mention in the forthcoming volume. They now saw in the stranger one who could confer immortal fame upon them, And were eager enough to ingratiate them- selves with him. But, however the conversation might. begin, he was sure to -lead his interlocutors to talk about the early traditions of Gault's Hill. Every morning, when the weather was fair, he would sally forth from his room in ! the inn, and call upon some of the oldest settlers of the place, and gather from them the floating stories of its early history. These had wonderfully increased with time; and the many versions of the terrible Gault tragedy sadly con- fused him in his efforts to learn the truth.. Some said that- \ - '  '   *  '  *    .  ,   ,' ,           , A FAMLY HSTORY.         47, the whole family had been killed; some, that the wife of Gault was an old friend and sweetheart of the British officer in command of athe soldiers, and was a party to the conspiracy; had fled with him to England, and there mar- ried him, lived like a great lady, and had a large family of children. Others, again, said there was a tradition of a boy who was not killed, but was roaming over the earth in disguise as an avenging spirit that would never allow a moment's rest to the perpetrator of the deed. Still others said that the boy who- had escaped the massacre had after- ward died; as it wag quite evident, that,.had he been alive, he would have come back, and claimed the property left by his father. In regard to the fatel of the girl, there were nearly as many stories as in regard 'to that of the boy. But the most current was, that she had been taken away, arid lived to grow up with the Indians, and was seen, years after, a haggard, crazy, decrepit woman, wandering about the hill at the dusk of evening; but she could never be ap- proached near enough to be spoken to, as she vanished into the thicket at the first sound of footsteps, shunning the human race like a wild fawn or a fox. Some said that she was always accompanied by a large she-bear; but as no, tracks of such an animal had ever been seen, though' dili- gently searched for after each reported appearance of the strange pair; it was generally considered that the:bear was only an illusion, or imaginary creature conjured up by the fears of the witnesses. Among most peoplea vague super- stition lingered for a long time about Gault's Hill; and even the bravest and most sceptical could never pass certain places of a darkl night without calling to mind the sad history of its first settlement; and an unusual noise or movement of an unseen animal in the bushes in the vicinity of the hill would cause an expression like , Gault's daughter is about," or, "The girl and the bear are prowling round,'" to escape from the lips of the belated passer-by. But whether the daughter of the murdered Gault was alive or not, or whether, if alive, she occasionally appeared in the vicinity of the, hill, it was said byl all that a strange figure had been accustomed in times past to make its ap- pearance in the dusk of the evening, and watch the house; but whether it was a man or woman, savage or civilized, no one could tell. The tracks of this' person had firequently: , , ,S A           .   48       GOMER OF MONTGOMERY: been seen, and they were so very peculiar, that they were instantly recognized; though sometimes the feet that made them had been bare, and at, other times wore moccasons. , But-the tracks showed that the feet of the straggler were generally bare: they always had, whether bare or covered, one peculiar feature that proved their identity. The print of the right foot was not so deep as that of the left, and was always at right angles with it; the toe of the right, whenever the person seemed to be standing still, invariably pointing from the hollow- of the other. There was no tradition that Gault's daughter was de- formed in the feet: on the contrary, like all unhappy damsels of whom little or nothing is known, she was said to have been a young girl possessed of all the graces- and of that angelic beauty which is always fatal to its possessor. It is a myste- rious order of things that kills off the unnaturally good be- fore any -but their friends and biographers have discovered their rare qualities, and remorselessly strangles the-angelic beauties before they have been debased by vulgar eyes. Like the child-pig, of Elia, they are snatched away " ere sin can blight or sorrow fade; " and are not allowed to grow up either to man, woman, or hog hood. 4 But the traditions of her infantile perfections were not conclusive that the mysterious tracks were not heirs; for some said, that, after she was stolen away, she,had been miutilated bythe Indians. The footprints were too larghe, too broad across the joints of the toes, for a white man; and to sup- pose they could be those of a white woman, especially one so fair and delicate as Gault's daughter, was considered ab- surd. Hence the evidence, as it appeared to the investi- gator, Iwas against the re-appearance of the child at the scene of the massacre. Setli Mettlar, while contriving to revive the fading tradi- tions of Gault's Hill, and to induce the people of Mont- gomery to rehearse all they had heard, dreamed, or imagined in regard to its early history, carefully treasured up every) thing he heard. But, at this period of time, he could learn little that was positive or satisfactory. None of the resi- dents of the village knew any thing, of the circumstances of the massacre of the Gaults, except what they had heard from, others who knew little more than themselves of the facts of that dreadful crime. So this searcher after truth enlarged   ;,A.       A FAMLY HSTORY.         49 the sphere of his investigations, and inquired who were the first settlers of the town, and who had ever known person- ally any thing of the unfortunate family. But, to his discomn- fiture, he learned that Gault was the pioneer settler in-rlthat region, and was killed, and the grass had grown for one season at least over his grave, before any other of theearly settlers had come into the vicinity. After Gault, he learned that the next settler was Asa Fisher; and both he and his wife had long since paid the debt of nature'; and not one of their children was left in Montgomery, but all, with that pro- pensity to "move n":' so" characteristic of the genuine Yan2 kee, had! gone farsher back into still newer settlements. Henry, the youngest son, whose defence of the religion and character ofGomery of Montgomery may be recollected, had moved away about a year before the advent of this an- tiquarian. The oldest daughter, now an old woman, had married near forty years before, and had settled in a town- some forty miles to the north of Montgomery, where she bore her husband a goodly number of sons and daughters. These, too, were all grown up, and married off. Her husband had passed to the undiscovered country; and the widow was living with her oldest daughter on the same farm that her husband had redeemed from the foirest. Seth Mettlar resolved to go and see this ancient dame, as it seemed that she was more likely than' any one in Mont- gomery to have the earliest traditions of the neighborhood. In seeking for some one who had lived in the same town with her, he found that the young wife of Jason Lewis was a native of the same place, and had known her from child- hood. From her he learned that the old ladv was very fee- ble, having had a paralytic attack a year before that left her helpless in body, though her memory of the early times was in no way impaired.,  With this resolution of consulting this aged woman, Seth Mettlar hired the, steady, fast-trotting nag ofiDeacon Spinney, which he mounted early of a morning, and rode away, with the distant town of Ridgeway for his destination, and with- out informing any one of the object of his joirney. This reticence was regarded as gross treachery on his part by many of his most valuable acquaintances; and some of them said, that, if they had known beforehand that he was going to Ridgeway, they could have given him directions :that VOL. 1I. p      ,   50'      GOEBY OF MONTGOMRY: would have insured him a better road, and saved him miles of travel, and this, too, without knowing what road he hl td taken. By good riding, which was harder on himself than on the horse he bestrode, he reached Ridgeway at sunset on the same day; and, as he was approaching that part of the town known sometimes as the "Village," and sometimes as the "Corn'er," he chanced to observe a boy driving some cows from an opening close by, towards the highway. He did not like to inquire directly for the house he sought; for then the people there, if -they should learn of it, would be apt to inquire abouthlris business with them. So he began beating- about the bush, commencing his conversation in this manner : "Well, my lad, wh-t is your name?" "Peltire"  "Pelatiah?" "Yes; Peltire Staples: but they call me Pell-mell for short." Just at, this moment, a young heifer made a dash towards the bushes; and young Pelatiah started to head her  off, singing to himself, "Pell-mell, and you may go to hell." The youth soon came up again alongside of Seth; and, as he walked along beside the horse, he stared at the rider as though he were some natural curiosity. "What is your fathers name?" inquired Seth,     .     ' "Sullivan. What's yours?" "Sullivan?" "Yes: Sullivan Staples. That is our house up there on the ridge. ' We put up travellers sometimes. Only two and thrippence for supper, breakfast, and lodging. :Horse only ninepence for hay, and ninepence, more for oats. Better stop, old man " " "Sullivan Staples," mused Seth to himself. "This must be the house, then, that I wanted to find. I think so: but I am not certain; for nobody was quite sure who the old woman's daughter married. Some said it was a Sullivan; but then Jason Lewis's wife said it was a Staples, and here are the two names both together. Boy, are your folks well-?" "'Well enough: why?" "Are your father and mother well?"  ' Agreed"           - 'How is your grandmother?    A FAMTTY HSTORY.        51 "None the better for you." "You are a sharp lad." "Am I? Tell news, will ye?" By this time they reabhed the house, and turned up to the door. The sharp boy's mother was standing in the doorway; and Seth rode up, and asked if he could get entertainment for himself and horse for the night. "Certainly," said the woman: " we always keep travellers. Pe], you good-for-nbthin' creeter, why don't you take the gentleman's hoss?" "Come in Mr.; will you? and sit down by the fire: it is getting right chilly." The traveller followed the good woman into the house; and his eyes were gladdened at the sight of an old' woman, sitting staring in the corner, mumbling, and bobbing hbr head, and i looking blear and curious at his approach. The thrifty grand-daughter of Asa Fisher soon had an' abundant repast for h'er guest, who, directly on entering, had commenced conversation with the old woman, whose con- fidence he had won by addressing her as grandmother; and. shaking her heartily by the hand. Taking his seat at the table, on which the hostess had set a platter of cold boiled beef, and potatoes, turnips, carrots, and cabbage, some brown-bread made of mixed rye and -corn meal, an apple-pie and a pot of tea, with rich cream and brown sugar, the traveller resumed, his conversation with the, old woman.- "And how long have you 'lived in this place, grand- mother?" '      "         *    ' "Well,- it is nigh on to forty year. I was goin' on past one and twenty when I was married to Goin Goin- -Goin - Goqdon was my husband's name; but he is dead now, more than ten year ago: and, so I live with my darter Betsey here, who married Sullivan Staples, him as was son of Cap'n Stat pies, that fit in the Revolution."  "Then you were not born in this place?"   j . "Lordla marcy! When I wasborn, there wan't no soul thib side of Montgomery Village. My feyther was the first settler inall them palrts arter David Gault, -himn aswas killed by the British and Indians." "How! killed! what for? Tell me, my good woman, all about it."                   -  ,   .             .  .   52      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: "What! didn't you never- hear about how they was all murdered tup there on Gault's Hill as it used to be called? now called Montgomnery. I wasn't born then; but I have heerd my feyther and mother talk it over more'n 'a thousand times. You see Gault was a man as come froml Taunton or Hampton or Gloucester, or some of them parts to the west'ard; and he had a good. log-house and was doin' well, and had a wife as they said was a beauty, and two childer." "Only one child, mother," interuptedt her daughter, the mistress of the house. "No, Betsey: there was two childer, I have heard my fey- ther say, - one a boy, and one a gal; but them Welch's folks said as how one on 'em was not at home at the time when his pa and ma was killed, but was away off to the westalrd with some of his aunts. But I don't know nothin' about that. My feyther said the house had ghosts in it; and I have heard a' many travellers come along and stay there, and tell the same story of ghosts and awful noises. And such a pret- ty woman they all saw by the fire, and the man too, and the little girl, and the guns and sich noises, and then-I dunno all." "The boy, you say, was not killed?" "Oh, no! Them as seen the ghosts never seen no boy; and I 'spect it was true that he was gone off at the time to his aunts;' for he was never heard on in all them parlts afterwards." "You never knew where his relatives lived, did you? ' "Well I a'most forgot. But yet a' remember. Once, a good bit arterwards, when I was as old as that gal there, -that gal with a tidy; she was named arter me, Jerusha; and I gin her a dollar when she was a year old, a silver dollar, and she has got it now. Jerushn, can't you show the gentleman your dollar?"  -  '           '   '  "Oh I! never mind about that, my good woman i what were you saying about Gault's relations?" "Oh, yes! so I was. I think they was somewhere finom Gloucester: and yet I don't seem to know, nuther; for it 'pears to me I've hearn they come from Nor'hampton; and Reuben Richards's wife, she that was Ruth Welch, said how she see a man once that passed through the village, and he said he knowed him when he was a young man, and long afbre he, had ever seen Gault's Hill. Lord a marcy! it wodld ha' been well if he'd never seen it; and so, -too, poor Robert Gomelry   A PFAMLY HSTORY.        ,53 feyther of the square, him as was froze to death in sight of his own winder. I remember all about that. I was older than I was when I was younger and littler. And we all cried so! for Mr. Gomery, the square's feyther, was a proper good man. 'Oh, dear! what a time it was! He was ,froze to death the same night he left our house." "Then you think that the boy that was not killed lived with his aunts at Northamnpton or Gloucester?" "Well, I misremelmber which. My feyther thought so; and. Ruth Welch, she that married Reuben Richards, --she said that the man she seen told ho W he khowed him in Glou- cester. And just after my feyther moved on to his place, and two months before I was born, there was a man from Bos- ton come and stopped at our house; and he said he was a brother of poor Mrs. Gault that was killed. His name was Grover or Governol;or some sich namle; but I wasn't born then, anhd I can't remember. My memory is not so good as! sole is." "Ie, carne from Boston, you say?" "Well, I misreniember that too; ibr I wasn't born then. He talked a grelat deal about Boston, and a great great deal about Gloucester too, -so my feythel said and he knew a sight of folks my feyther knew, for he came from near Glou- cester."                    '  The old woman's ideas were evidently confused, and he'r  memory hazy; but Seth Mettlar was convincedlthat the Gaults had emigrated, before the war, from either Noithamp- ton or Gloucester in Ma:ssachusetts. The conversation, thus far, had been carried on entirely between himself and the old woman, wlhile he was eating his sup)per. Jerusha had stood all the time in the chimney-corner, staring at the stranger as it' transfixed by his presence. Pelatiall had been engaged in building cob-houses in one corner, where his fatherl who had julst gone to a neihbor's, had been shelling corn dulrinr the afternoon. - This was the information he had colme to seek; and so eager had he been to catch every wordtAhe old woman utterecl, that he scarcely tasted the coarse, wholesome food that he had swallowed. As bhe was rising finom the table, the goodman of the house came in; and, having already learned from the old woman all she probably knew of the Gaults and-their history, he began to talk with the host about the condition, history, and prospects of Ridge- Xi , ,    54       GOMERY OF: MONTGOMERY:  wa y. In less than an hour, the motions and signs of his host- ess clearly intimated that it was time for him to retire. Being satisfied, that, though he were to stay a week longer, he would learn little more of the matter that had brought him to the place, he told his entertainer (whom he addressed as Cap n Staples) that he would be off betimes in the morh- -ing, and ride as far as Tavish's before breakfast. The host  promised to feed his horse at half-past three in the morning, and call him at half-past four.- He was as good as his word,; for our friend Seth seemed to have hardly fallen asleep when he was -aroused by his host, who told him it was past fdur o'clock, and breakfast was ready. Hie arose immediately; and on coining into the kitchen, which served as kitchen, dining-room, and sitting- room, he, found the family breakfast, on the table, and cer- tainly abundant and wholesome, if not elegant or dainty. He at once determined: to, take his breakfast before setting out, and not trouble Tavish's people. "Jerusha,' said the mother, "show the gentleman where towash-; and here, you jade, take this clean towel with you!" 'The girl thus addressed led :the way to a large trough, a few yards from the house, full of running -water; then, point- ing to a aish of soft soap, she laid down her towel, and ran back into the house. The guest now laved himself in the cool, clear, limpid water; and then, returning to the house, sat down with the family, and made a substantial breakfast. This done, he asked for his bill; and, being told that it was three .and six- pence, he paid it without grumbling, and then gave a cent to each of. the children, except Jerusha,-to her he gave a fourpence. -Ere sunset, he was back-to Montgomery, to the great sur- prise of his acquaintances there, who were discussing in dif- ferent circles the reason of his sudden departure. The next day, he asked little Diller for his billand said he should take the stage the following morning on his way back to Boston. The news soon spread through the village that the mysterious stranger was going away, and would leave in the stage the next day. Several desperate attempts were, ac- cordingly, made to learn the object of his visit there; but he gave no satisfaction to any, except that he said he should be back again before long, and they should certainly hear from 1   A rPANTL HSTORY.        55 him again. So he departed, and no one was the. wiser; though it seemed to be felt, rather than seen, that he had been there for no good purpose. Within two weeks after the departure of the inquisitive and mysterious visitor from the village of Montgomery, the same industrious antiquary could have been seen in the old town of Northampton, where he made himself familiar, equally a*. in the former place, with everybody who would talk with him; giving out the same idea,-- that e was an historian: for which reason he sought the society of the oldest inhabitants, and inquired of them the early events of the town's history. He soon learned that there had been a family of Gaults in the place long before; but not one of the name was -left. The story of the massacre at-- Gault's Hill was generally known, however, to both old and young; having been hand. ed down from one generation to another, like many other traditions of the suffering and wrongs of the pioneers of the forest. But though there were many people- in the place who could tell all the particulars of that bloody deed, and more than we know of (who know alD, yet so vague was their knowledge,. and so made up of different stories and- traditions was their ipfotrmation, that no one of them had any distinct idea where: Gault's Hill was. Some thought -it was away up ,in Vermont; (others, in the eastern part of Maine; though many inclined to the opinion that it must be in Massachusetts, and pretty well toward the eastern shore, as only there, in all this wide country, were witches, hobgob- lins, and disembodied spirits ever known for a certainty to show their unwelcome, unearthly, incorporeal forms. Old Gen. Sturgis, son of that Gen. Sturgis who "fit the Brit- ish," was now well stricken in years; for, at the time of the battle of Bunker's Hill, he was a lad in trousers. - He had, often heard his father tell the story of Gault's ghosts; and being now old, independent in his worldly affairs, and living in the best house in the place, he was looked up to as a sort of oracle, second only to that great Dr. Edwards, who, after having proved incontestably, and much to their consolation, that the most of the world- would inevitably be damned, had long rested from   his labors.. The--old general was a man of great benevolence of heart, but somewhat vain and pompous; and was often to be seen in the most public      I   -56     GOMERY OFr M0NHTGOMRY : places, such as the town-hall, the bar-room of the principal hotel, with spectacles sometimes on-nose, and sometimes across his ample forehead, "in failr, round belly," with his gold-headed' cane in his hand, entertaining his admiring ' towns-people with talk suited to their taste or capacity. He was not particular xWho his auditors were, if they only listened admiringly to his Wise sayings. , This was exactly the man whom Seth Mettlar would be sure to encounter soon after his arrival; and he was the man, of all others, who could impart to him most of the informa- tion which he souglt. The first day after Seth's arrival, as he was questioning the landlord of the hotel in regard to the condition and prospects of the town, the veteran general came in; and the landlord, knowing how much the brigadier prided himself on his knowledge of the early history of the country, turned his guest over to him. They at once fell into a long conversation; and the subaltern adroitly led the superior, to talk upon such subjects as most interested him- self.        - "You have lived a long time here, general?" said Seth. "Yes: I was born here. I know, I may say, as much about this part of the country as any man in it." "Indeed! . I am delighted to make your acquaintance. I am engaged in writing a history of the. early settlements of New England; and 'that business is what has brought me here now.'" "You have come to the right man; I may say, the foun- tain-head. Yes, I was born in this town ; and, when I was five-years old, my father-and mother went to Boston on a visit, and took me with them: and, while there, the battle of Bunker Hill took place; and my father fit in it, and got wounded in the leg. I can remember standing on top of my uncle's house, and Watching with my mother all that long day. My father sent us back to Nor'hampton; but he staid, and never even came to see us for two, year. He was a brigadier-general before the war was over. I trust you will not fail to do honor and justice to the Sturgis Family in your history." "It will be my special object to do that," replied Seth. "Are there many more families'in the place whose ancestors distinguished themselves in the Revolution?" "Several; but none so much as the Sturgises."   A FAMLY HSTORY.         57. "Isn't there a family of the name of Gault here?" - "Gault, Gault? I don't know of any such ; and, if there were any such, I should certainly know it. The only Gault Family that I ever heard of in these parts was that'of Alpheus Ga'ult; and they have been gone 'from here ever since I was a boy." '      , l "Had he a family of children?      -  "If I recollect right, one son and two daughters. The danghters married a year or two before the old folks moved away; and both went to live in Deerfield, some forty miles from here to the north. The son I remember well, both on account of his being a young man of great enterprise and promise, and by reason of the sad fortune that overtook him."   ,    .   , "Ah!" said Seth, his eyes brightening, as he now believed he was on the track of the first settler on Gault's Hill. '"What was that?"  "Well, it was so Ibng ag,o, that I don't remember all the particulars; but youing Gault had Imarried the daughter of oTd Godfrey Cargill, the richest man in the town at that time.;- The old man was violently opposed to the match; for he was very proud of' his daughter (and certainly Jane Cargill was the handsomest girl, at that time, in all this part of the country); and, as old Godfi'ey was rich, lie expected she would marry at least a governor, judge, or member of Con- gress. But Gault's father Xwas known ttrle poor; and, what was worse, he was heavily in debt to Cargill, who revenged himself by foreclosing thb mortgage which he held -of his farm, and turning him into the street. Old Mr. Gault was a very worthy citizen, and was probably the best informed and most generally respected of any man in the town. - But he was poor; and that was enough for Cargill. He roundly rated his daughter for marry ing a pauper; so that, the poor girl begged her husband to take her away-. Young Gault, who had got a few hundred dollars ahead, was able to get enough  more, so as to pay off the debt to Cargill; but the- old man would not listen to it: so it was agreed that old / Mr. Gault (his wife had been dead for some years) should go and live with his daughter at Deerfield, and young Gault and his wife would seek out an Arcadian home in the wilder- ness. But, before starting for the forest, they went to visit an elder and married sister of Jane, -who lived in Gloucester."   -58     fiTGOAMEY OF MONTGOMERY-:  1 -Gloucester!" exclaimed Seth, as the narrative of the old woman, relict of Goin Gordon of Ridgeway, flashed across his mind. Yes, G!loucester, I believe it is, where the elder sister lived. She had married an old man there, - old enough to be her father; but he was rich, and old Cargill approved the match. The elder sister, Charlotte, did not approve of her fathel's harshness towards Jane, and urged them very strongly to settle in Gloucester; and her husband offered to rendel any needed assistance in starting them in life. But they had resolved to go into the wilderness, and be dependent on no one; and so David Gault set forth alone to look but a choice spot to settle on, leaving his wife with her sister while he was away. He returnedin about two months, and reported that he had found the finfest place in all New England, and was eager to return to it;- for he said, that, if it should chance to fall under the eye of any other :person on the same errand, it would surely be taken up before his return. But there was a difficulty in the way of his immediate setting out; and you will understand the nature of this difficulty, when I tell you, that, two weeks after his return, iis wife presented him with a young Gault. As soon as the m ther and child were supposed to be able to endure the journey, they set forth with their scanty effects for the deep, dark forest." "Was this child a boy, or a girl?" inquired BSeth. "If I don't misremember, it was a boy. In fact, I know it was a boy; for years after, when the story got abroad how they had all been. murdered, the elder sister came home from Gloucester to her father's, and the affair was- talked about a great deal in this place. She took pains to send a man away up there to learn all the particulars; for, if I don't mistake, she brought the boy, that was not murdered, up here to his grandfather's. She told how her sister enjoyed her life i; the forest, and how her boy grew apace; and after-a couple of years she had a little girl, and was- so happy in -her home in the wilderness, that she- never wanted to leave it. Old Godfrey Cargill said little about the -matter; and never proposed making any inquiry in regard to poor Jane's death. On the contrary, he told his other daughter, Ruth, that she must send, away from his house the surviving son ; for he could never endure the sight of his disgraced child; that her punishment was a special judgment upon her   A FAMLY MORTORY .       69. for disobedience to her father. Ruth told him that God would punish him, for his- unnatural cruelty, and that she would never darken his doors again. She left his house the same day; and, the next day being SUnday, the old man sent a request to the clergyman that he might have the prayers of the congregation, that the death of his daughter might be sanctified to his spiritual and eternal welfare." "And did the other daughter return to Gloucester with the boy?" "So it was reported; and, the day after her return, her husband died, and I believe she never married again. Old Cargill soon after had a stroke of palsy, and lost his senses to a great extent; and it was piteous to hear him, in his pain and weakness, call for Jane to return. Ah! she could never return again; and though his other child broke her vow, and came back to comfort him, the old man never ceased to wail, and call for Jane, till he died." , "I Did the widow continue to live in Gloucester after her father's death?"  - "Yes: I think so, at least. People said she never was the wornan she was before, after the murder of the Gaults. At the time she was here, Parson Dickerson tried to console her by telling her she should imitate the Christian resignation and pious example of her father, who, instead of repining at the Lord's doing, became more: devout than ever, and gave. more liberally for the building-up of Zion than ever before. When the minister talked to her thus, some thought she was crazy, she went on so. She 'arraigned her own father for cruelty and prid e, that drove her sister to the wilderness, where: she miselrably perished by the hand of the savage; and she cursed the parson to his face for his acquiescence in the old man's unnatural conduct. He was greatly scandal- ized at this burst of passion, and threatened to send a letter to the chllurch at Gloucester, recommending the expulsion of so refractory a member; but some of his parishioners warned him that: the less said on that subject the better, and that, if it were to become a matter of general notoriety and discus- sion, they must withdraw from all conrrection that might seem; to approve his course." "But the boy - what became of him?"   - "Henever came here again, and we lost sight of them all; for you must know that it was a great while ago. There   60       COMsERY OF MONTGOlMERY: was,a great deal of talk about it at the- time; for it was a strange and very dreadful affair." "Do you remember the name of this sister's husband?" "I only remerbe;r that, when she was here the last time, she was called the Widow Calrver," "And she never married again?" "It strikes me you are very curious about the matter, if I mary be allowed to say so, stranger."  s"The truth of history," replied Seth with an air of great gravity, " requires; Us to be very thorough in our searches; and, before leaving, I shall be -as particular in gathering up other facts of importance in regard to the early history of other families. In cases like this, I must rely on verbal traditions; but in a family like yours, containing- men of eminence, it is easy to get from them the, family records; and, if I Could persuade you to give me a 'rief history of your family, I shall be most happy to., incorporate it into my book."                1 ' "I shall, be most happy to do it," said the general, draw- ing himself up with towering dignity: "I will have it ready for you before your departure; or, if not, I will send it to your address in Boston." .  ' The general now rose, and, shaking the historian by the hand, walked out of the hotel, feeling a foot taller than when he entered. He did not doubt that he had now taken a bond and mortgage on fame and immortality. I No sooner had he left, however, than the Boston antiquary said to himself, that he thought. he had got all the informa- tion required in regard to the Gaults, and would leave the gallant general to compose his Memoir' of the Sturgis Family at his leisuire. Accordingly, that same afternoon, he com- menced his journey back to Boston; and, three days after, he was ensconced as a guest in the Massasoit House in Gloucester. Here his first inquiry was for the Widow Carver; but the landlord told him that there was no such person then liing in Gloucester. "No such, person?" said he. "No, sir: the only Widow Carver that I ever knew in this place has been dead for years. She had a nice property left her by her husland, Solon Carver, who died a great while ago; lbut she wouldl never marry again, though she had some excellent offers. Truth is, stranger, confidentially, -but I beg   A FAMLY HSTORY . you won't mtention it,- my first wife died soon after Soloni failed to come to dinner, and ah!-- well I say nothing; but I think she might have done worse." Seth saw at once that his host was blessed with a garru- - lous, tell-tale tongue, and it would be easy to draw from him all he knew of any and every body. So he determined to take his ease at the Massasoit, and watch his opportunity for getting the desired information. He talked freely wilt] the landlord, and, with his usual affability and tact, made the acquaintance of the people of the village, who at that time, when it was respectable both to drilnk and to sell strong drink at retail, used to congregate at the village tavern. On learning that the Widow Carver was dead, Seth thought it entirely safe to evince a high- degree of interest in her history; for no one would probably question his object or motives. But he found the landlord of the Massasoit the most intelligent and 'comm lnicative of all whom he ques- tioned, as it is a part of the business of the host of a country tavern to know all about his neighbors. If he is competent for his high and honorable calling, he is a living epitome of history, as well as a walking newspaper, carrying in his head all the rumors of the day, and prepared at all times to regale his guests on old legends and recent events; while his belp- meet's care is that they-shall be regaled on things more sub- stantial: the former ale thrown in gratis, while the latter are' charged in the bill. Having made this estimate of the jolly landlord of the Massasoit, Seth Mettlar sought an early opportunity to-draw him aside, and question him about the Widow Carver. "Did she leave any children??" he asked. "Not a child. She never had but one of her own, and that died young."                - "Had she any with her ever that were not her own?- any nephews or nieces?"  "Yes: she lhad the most mischievous little devil of a nephew that -ever cut up shines in-all these parts. He was a good-natured little cuss too: but he was up to more tricks than all the rest of the boys in town; and, by George! he came near ruining my house." "' Hoow was that?" "Why, you see,\ one Fourth of July we was having a cele- bration here; but it was a great while ago, and when I , OL.  II.  6   62       GOOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: hadn't kept the Massasoit so long at I have now: I have kept it more'n forty year. That is a greatwhile for a man to keep the same hotel in this country; but, in some of these old- towns near the seacoast, we don't change about so much as they do in other parts. Well, as I was saying, it was the Fourth of July, and we was having a celebration here; and we had an oration by the great Mr. Quincy from Boston. We had a procession and a cannon and music; and we -htid a long table in front of the house, and a grove to shade it. And we got up the dinner here at the Massasoit; though not- this house, either; for I rebuilt the house a few years \after; but I hav,e had the same sign always that you can see now. I have it taken down, furbished up, and painted every two years. Now, this was in the time of my first wife: she is dead now, poor woman t! She died a year or two after this; and you, can see her grave in the churchyard: the gravestones cost me fourteen dollars.. She was great on making beefsteak and chicken-pies.; Whenever she was ex- pecting any of the great folks fromn Boston, she always had one with a top-crust that would melt in your mouth. Now, on this-occasion, she had two of the best chicken-pies she could possibly make set on the table; one before the orator: he wash a senator in Congress too, from Boston; and he had a  iffed shirt and gold-headed cane, and silver buckles on his. shoes. Well, the. other pie was set before Parson Dwight; and my wife she knowed he was mighty fond of her chicken-pie, and had made this one rich as cream on his account; and what do you think that little cuss did?."  "I hope he did not steal the pies." "Steal 'em!. A thousand times worse than that. That morning, wheh they was all ready to be put in the oven, and was standing in the backpart of the kitchen, he starts a fire of shavings in the porch; and my wife, and the hired gals, and all, thought the house was afire, and run out to put it out; and just then he stole in, and, lifting up the kivers of them tw6 pies, he stole out the wings of the chickens, and in their place put two little dead-kittens just born." "That was a sad joke! Did you catch him in the act?" C"Catch him, catchi him! - catch a weasel asleep! He was too sharp for that. We never found it out till the pies was baked and put on the table. There was a lot of the great Boston men here besides the orator. The Quincys, the Win-   A FAMLY HSTORY.  ':63 throps, the Appletons, the Otises, the Peabodys, were as thick as huckleberries that day; and they come down in their fine carriages, and took up all the best rooms in the house. That day was a proud one for my wife. She knowed nobody in Boston could make such chicken-pies as she did; alnd she sot up stairs so as to look down on the long table. I re'ly believe she thought that Independence Day had been made on purpose, so that she could show the Boston folks her chicken-pies. She was a very good woman; but she hadn't much learnin', and didni't know that it was- all to save the country. The table ran along near the house; and the presi- dent of the day, old Judge Bates, sat right opposite her win- dow, with the orator on one side, and Parson Dwight on the other. Fact is, stranger, I was a little curis myself to see how the dinner would pass off; and, after they was all sot down to the tghle, I run up stairs, and stood looking out of the 'win- dow over my wif'e's shoulders while the parson was askin' the blessin'. When he came to pray that they might all be thankful for all God's mercies, and especially be duly grateful for the repast spread before them, I could hear my wife mut- terin', You may well be grateful; -for you, don't get such a dinner as that eveiy day! ' It was true enough, but in a way she little suspected. Her pride was bound to have a ifll. She thought the grace very short; but she excused it, as she supposed the parson was in haste to get his knife into the chicken-pie. But first came the roast beef and ,the roast lamb. She noticed that Parson Dwight hardly tasted either. She knowed what he was waitin' for. She was in haste for the moment of her triumph, and did pot doubt that no sooner were -the pies tasted than they woaild forget all about savin' the nation, and'leave it to Tom Jefferson and destruction. "But now the plates have been changed; and the orator himself proceeds to cut the pie that is before him. He cuts out and lays on- his plate a big junk; and now, stranger, im- agine, if you can, how, he looked, how I looked, how Parson Dw) ight looked, how my wife looked, when he took the. slice on his plate, and, instead of a leg or wing of a chicken, there rolled out from under the crust the head of a young kitten! l11 saw it,- all them Bostoners and all. My wife she gave a screan, and some of the folks began smashing the plates in their fury. But the orator jumped up, and cried out that ' some Democrat had evidently been inside the pie, thinking it !             -    "    -   OMERY OF', MONTGOMERY*: th4e Federal treasury, and had sneaked out, and forgot his head. If there was any Jeffersonian present, he would please come forward and claim it.' This sally served to cidlm the tumult for a time, and the guests' at the other part of the table resumed their knives and forks; and Parson Dwight, who had asked the blessing, could not doubt that what was under his reverend nose must be free from any thing 'com- mon or unclean;' and so he began to cut into the chicken-pie that stood before him, its rich, flaky Crust, of which he well knewe the- flavor, tempting himl to alacrity. The' eyes of all near him were upon him; for a suspicion was lurking ill their minds that another kitten might have been sacrificed for this day's celebration:] But the first slice, as it was lifted from the pan, or nappy, dispelled all fear. The parson took a liberal slice to himself; but he could not wait to serve the others, but pushed the dlish along to Judge Bates, president of the? day, who first helped the orator, and then helped all those near him, and at last took a, slice himself, and pushed back the dish in front of Parson I Dwight, who, by this time, had nearly disposed of his first alotlent. My wife, by this time, had recovered herself in par, ancl was liste ing, with all her ears, for the comments of the guests. 'You!have got' some- body here that knows how to make chicken-pie,' said the ora- tor. 'That is so,' said severalothers. 'Very good, consid- erin',' said Parson Dwight; his mouth so full he could hardly speak, as he cramrmed in the remainder on his plate, and reached out to secure the dish before any one else should get a chance to repeat.         ,  "' Good, considerin', muttered my wife' I wish it wotuld choke him!' ",-The parson drew the nappy towards him, and yet about one-quarter of the pie was unbroken. He laid a chicken's leg on his plated and a large pieoe of crustj, and then inserted the spoon undcr the remaining icrust to fish out another sa- vory morsel. Egad, stranger! he caught it; for he drew forth another kitten, that had evidently never lifted its inno- cent eyes to the light of day. "Stranger, I can't tell what happened after that. My wife went off into fits; and all the dishes bn the table was broken all to smash, and it was an awful row. You could have seen - all them Bostoners, and others who had eat of the pie, not with fingers in their inouths, like boys caught stealing, but   A FAMLY RISTORY.         6 with fingers in their throats, trying to coax up the chicken- ' pie. But, finding it loath to come up, they sought to neutral- ize the effect of kitten on the stomach by huge draughts of brandy and Jamaica rum; ,and I think there were more, drunken people in Gloucester that night than there ever has been since. It come nigh raining my tavern; and would, but for the fact that people said it was Pickard's doings. Pickard, he kept the other tavern; and, being a Democrat, folks said it was one of his tricks. to get away my custom." "Was it Pickard?" "' No: it was that scamp, the Widow Carver's nephew." "What was his name?" "His name was Randolph Gault. But he was always called Dolph. HeI was a queer-looking little cuss as ever, you see. He had the devil's own eye for mischief; and his nose had been broken and turned up, so that his nostrils looked like two worm-holes in a board; and he always looked so good-natured and full of fin, that everybody liked him in spite of his mischief and tricks, except Parson Dwight. 'The parson said he was an imp of Satan; aind they were always at war; and the boy never got the worst of it, you may-be sure. At last, matters came to a erisis when the go)d man refused to let. the schoolmaster have a certificate tol keep school till he promised to flog the mischief out of Dolph Gault. When his aunt heard of this, she was in a great tan- trum, - for she thought every thing of the boy,-and would not let him go to school at all, and was turned out of the church for it., "That schoolmaster had a sorry time of it. Dolph set all the other boys agin him, and they'played all sorts of prankss on -hin. He was the most ingenious cuss for mis- chief. Tlme schoolmaster never went to prayer-meetin' or ' singin'-school that winter but what he lost his hat or cloak, which was sure to be found the next morning near the house of Dolly Turpie, who had twice been unfortunate, or, as she expressed it, 'fallen into sin.' It wasn't to spite me or my wife, though, that the kittens was put into the pies: it was toput the parson's nose out of joint." "What became of this hopeful youth?" "He staid here with his aunt till about fourteen years old; and then went to :sea,; and never come back." "He probably died, then, long ago?"  '   ,*\  I   '     "      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: "1No: I guess not. But folks thought he took to bad ways, as his aunt never said much about him.. But she used to get lots of presents from somebody, and queer pre- sents they were too;, such- as sea-shells and fine feathers and trinkets, such as Steve Martin-him-that went to sea -says they have Way off in the South-Sea islands. Some- times she received things that must have cost a great deal of moneyf and Parson Dwight said that Dolph had probably turned pirate; at which the widow was terribly indignant, and said that her nephew was the best boy she ever knew." "Was he never heard of again?" No - yes: Steve Martin said he saw him in New York once, and asked him if his name wasn't Dolph Ga'ult, and he said no: it was Joe --; well, I forget Joe what; though Steve said he knew it was nobody but Dolph Gault. " "Where is this Steve Martin?" "He hasn't been heard on this four year. He was lost at sea. The vessel he sailed in was never heard of after she left Matanzas for Boston." "Don't you think you could recollect the name he gave him?" "Well, I might; but it was a curious, odd name. But-I will inquire: perhaps some of Steve's folks may recollect it." "I have a g'eat interest in this youth," said Seth. "He was a- rblative of mine.' , "Indeed! - I always said somebody would turn up, or that he would come back and claim the property.'" "What! had he property?" "Yes: his aunt left him all her property (and it was a good deaD if he should come back before the end of fifteen year; if not, the money was to go, half to the poor of this place, and half to the poor of Northampton." "Did you ever know ny thing about the early history of this unfortunate child?" "h1 yes! everybody las heard of that. His father and mother was killed by the Indians and British in the Revolu- tionary -War." "It is the same. There is some property still for him if he can be found; but that seems scarcely possible. If you will find out the, name he goes by, I will pay you well; and, if he is ever found, I will pay you a hundred-dollar bill." "I'll. dowmy best; but, you know, it is a long time since   A FAMLY HSTORY.         67. he left here. Some people said he used to come once in a while, very secretly, in his aunt's lifetime; and, when she was questioned about it, she said Dolph knew his own busi- ness, and, if other people would. attend to theirs, it would be just as well for them. She used to throw out dark hints, though; and, whenever any thing was said about the Gault murder, she would repeat time after time, "Murder will out; murder will out!"  - After this' conversation with the landlord of the Massasoit' Seth Mettlar made further inquiries of other inhabitants of Gloucester about the well-remembered youth, Dolph Gault. But he could learn nothing about him more than Boniface had told him.: Even Steve'Martin's folks could not remember precisely what name he went by. It[ was something like Pumpiwater or Pumphandle, or something with a pump to it; but, whatever it was, the painstaking Seth was satisfied he llad pumped out all the information to be had on the subject in the town of Gloucester, when he had exhausted the knowledge of Paul Blossom, landlord of the Massasoit.      ,   i       ' i The reader has already discovered before this that Seth Mettlar is a bird of ill-omen. What is he hunting through  the country for in this mysterious manner? It would be good fortune, I suspect, for more than one person, whose acquaintance we have made in this history, if he would accidentally break his neck. But, as he will not do, it, he must, be looked after; for lie is evidently plotting hirm to some 'of the most important characters we have yet encoun- tered; and we must try and discover vhat it is he is plotting, and why he is thus intruding his unwelcome presence. Seth Mettlar called himself, and was called in the good city of Boston, where he lived, a lawyer. He .passed, too, for a man of high respectability; for he was precise, me- thodical, and outwardly correct. He had never been known to wear but one suit of clothes for twenty years; at least, no one of his acquaintance could ever, tell that the coat of to-day was not the coat of yesterday, last week, or last year. It was always a nice fitting dress-coat, neither too new nor too, old. How the transition from one fashion to another-- from the short waist, long skirt, and high, stiff collar, to the lighter collar, long-waist, and broader-flaps-was effected, no one knew. But he was always dressed so neatly, and *  *  '      68o      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY': yet, so far in the -rear of the latest fashion, that his outer garb never attracted attention, and never diverted the eyes of people to look at, any part of hinm but his respectable close-shaved, sandy-complexioned, slightly-rubicund face. His hair was of that color, that, if it ever turns white, tlfe process is imperceptible, as it mellows into lighter shades without revealing the white intruders that warn the pos- sessor of raven locks of the passing years. It .was always nicely, and even adroitly combed, so as to make his forehead appear higher and broader than it really was; and his thin- lips had been equally jockeyed to display a set of faultless white teeth, that smiled and smiled upon vou, whether he was talking or listening. His collar and cravat were always of spotless white; and a stranger would have taken him for a clergyman sooner than a lawyer. But, whatever you might suspect his vocation to be, you would know that he was a man of the nicest method and order; and his very appearance was an advertisement to business, and procured him all he had. This business was not of that kind that took him into the, courts; but it', was, nevertheless, re- spectable and remunerative, if not ]ubrative. His office was in the third story of a large block filled with lawyers' offices; and, in confused cases in which complicated and long- standing accounts were to be sifted, his aid was considered invaluable; and his briefs were such lucid abstracts of the cases submitted to him, that he had come to be thought so valuable as junior council, that he could choose his cases, and almost dictate his terms.   ,     l Such being the reputation of Seth Mettlar, it was but natural that when old Col. Scranton died, being a nona- genarian, and leaving a large amount of property scattered in various parts of New England, with books and accounts in almost irretrievable confusion, his executors should engage the services of the precise and methodical Seth Mettlar to bring order out of chaos, and arrange his papers so that they could understand them. The employment was congenial to the tastes of the attorney; and an immense quantity of books, deeds, mortgages, notes-of-hand, bonds, letters, and loose papers of-almost every variety, were deposited in his office, which the practised accountant proceeded to examine and arrange, with scrupulous fidelity. He first assorted the papers according to their date, paying little regard to their i   A FAMLY HSTORY.         69, contents; and then, beginning back with the first business transactions of the deceased, he endeavored to trace up his business-life, and tot learn the history and course of each transaction, and hlnce deduce its legal effect and bearing. Col. Scranton, like many bold and successful speculators, had been a man of slack business, habits; having been more prone to regard general results than attend to details.  His father had left him 'a considerable fortune, which he, had made in navigation: and the son had the'forecast to perceive, while yet a young man, that America was a land of promise; , that it must increase rapidly in population; and that in broad acres was the surest fortune. So he bought lacre tracts of land in various parts; and, before the first tree had been felled, 1 4  he owned townships and half-townships in three States,- Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermnont. For these  e paid,. in some instances, less for a whole township than p singzle hundred-acre lot was worth during his own lifetime. He was a sagacious and far-seeing man, and by sheer liberality grew rich apace. Instead of holding on to his lands for high prices, he sold lots very cheap to desirable settlers, knowing that, as the country became populated, the residue of his lands would increase in value. As he waxed old, however, he so ld  off the remnants of his early purchases, and invested his money in improved city property; so that in his latter years he had little to do -but receive his rents, aind witness the augmentation of his estate. His children were all married, and settled within a,stone's-cast of his own door; and as they were all honored and respected, and he was of a benevolent i and tolerant disposition, his declining yeals, ere as caln and happy as it is often the lot of man to experience in this world. ' Seth Mettlar began his investigations with his wonted method and "industry, and found that, rich as Col. Scranton was when he died, he would have been much richer had he held on to some of his land purchases in the country. In one instance, a large village, which has since become an important city, was entirely situated on a tract of land, that, thirtyvyears before, the colonel had sold for five hundred dollars. But, as it was, he had been rich enough, and that sufficed; and so the lawyer t'aced along his affairs finding now and then an odd corner, that, from accident or neglect, had never been sold.   70   G'1OME1Y OF MONTGO*lERY: " He had been at work some two or three weeks on, these papers, when he opened a large bundle of letters, and, looking over them, found one, not addressed to Col. Scranton, but to one David Gault. This letter he opened, and found within it a deed of a tract of land situated a long distance from Boston. The letter was brief and -business-like, and simply stated! that the money stipulated to be paid forbthe land, together with a note for the balance, had been received,. and the deed made out, and would be sent by the first oppor- tunity; that for the payment of the note he might take his own time, and, if not convenieni, need not pay it at all, but could at some future time render such assistance in survey- ing the township, and disposing of lots to other purchasers, -as he thought would be reasonable. Seth looked at the deed. -It was a singular instrument, as showing the difficulty of description, and of definitely fixing and defining the boundaries of land in unsurveyed and little known districts. Except in the boundaries, however, it was in the usual form. - The initial point was a spring on the side of a hill, and, known as "The Weeping Angel." From this point, a line due south-west was to be struck; and at a dis- tance of one hundred rods, in a straight line from the spring, was to be -one corner of the lot. From there the line was to run due north three hundred rods; thence due east three hundred rods; thence due south three hundred rods; thence due west three hundred rods, to the place of beginning. Why this deed had never been delivered, did not appear; and Seth, who had no recollection of ever having i heard the name of Gault, concluded, that, for some reason unknown to him, 'another deed had been given, perhaps with different boundaries; and this, from some oversight, though useless, had never been destroyed. He laid. it one side, however, and went on with his labor; and the next day he found a can- celled bond for a deed of the same property to one Robert Gomery. Comparing this with the deed, he saw it was dated some three years later; but the description was the same, the one being evidently- copied fi'om the other. 'There, must be something wrong here," said Seth to himself. "This deed to Gault is duly signed, Witnessed, and sealed; and the property was undoubtedly paid for, as is proved by the letter. 'Tis clearly a matter, the family know. nothing about; and now, Seth, just keep your own counsel, and see what conmes   A FAMLY HSTORY.        71 of it. There may be something better than fees in this case, after all. If so, why shouldn't you make it as, well as the next mnan? The heirs have got enough without this, and they can.- never miss any thing; for they will never know any thing about it." With this commendable intention of turning an honest penny, he put the deed, the letter, and the bond in his own pocket, and went on with the other letters and accounts.: ' After this discovery, the mind of Seth Mettlar was not so entirely devoted to the work in hand as it had been. It was ever reverting to that Gault property, wherever it might be. From the description in the deed, it was plain that it was situated a considerable distance to the north or north-west of Boston; atnd, as the names Gault and Gomery were constantly recurring to his mind, it occurred to him that the thriving town of Montgomery might be the identical place. He knew nothing of the place, except that it existed, and was a  village of some importance; and so he sought a dry-goods jobber of ihis acquaintance, whom he knew to have large dealings with that part of the country, and asked him if hb had any knowledge of such a place. "Indeed I have," answered the merchant. "Our house has sold goods to go there for this thn years past; and only last fall I went up there to look after a poor customer." aIs there a family of the name of Gomery there?" he further inquired. "Yes: it is the principal family of the place, and, for a country village, is very rich." "What Sort of a place is it?" "One of the most thriving inland villages I have ever seen. There is a fine water-power, and large saw and grist mills, besides a fulling-mill and carding-machine, and every thing that any village of that size ever has." "Is it a- level or hilly country?" -"Rather hilly. The large hill at the south-west of the village has one of the finest prospects I know of anywhere. The town took its name from that. The Gomery Family that I was speaking of first settled there; and so the hill was called Montgomery, and after that the village. You must have heard of that place when you were a boy. It is the same place where the Gault Family were murdered by the British and ndiand Indians in the tim of: the Revolution,.   72       GOM[ERY OF MONTGOMERY: "It seems to me I do remember something about such an afftir I Wasn't there a falmous spring in the place?" "Ah, yes! and I went up to see it; and they say it looks just as it did fifty years ago. The Indians used to hold their powwows near it; and they first named it the ' Weeping Angel.'! Seth, having gained all the information be desired, bade the merchant good-morning, and returned to his office. He had ascertained where the tract of land was situated that Col. Scranton had sold to David Gault, and the deed of; which was in his own pocket. He had also learned that the tract was of great value; and lhe resolved to bide his time. It was six months after this before the affairs of the Scranton Estate were so far arranged and disposed of, that the service- able and respectable Seth could leave the city, and go in search of the Gault Property. When he was at liberty to leave, however, he set forth, and made directly to Montgomery Village, and took up his lodgings at Diller's Tavern, where , we first met him, and where we have already observed his curious investigations. It was some two months after his arrival there before 'he got back to Boston; and, the very next day after his return, an advertisement appeared in the "Advertiser and Post," to the effect, that if Randolph Gault would inquire at the office of Seth Mettlar, No. 27, Street, third story, he would learn something greatly to his advantage. i' '    A FAMLY' HSTORY.         73 CHAPTER V. s I havellived long enough: my May of life  i Is fallen into the sear, the yellow leaf; And that which should aiccompany old age' As honor, love, obedience, troops of friends, ) I must not look to have, but in their stead : Curses, -not loud, but deep, mouth-honor, breath, Which the poor heart would fain deny, but dare not.' -- MACBETIs. IT was only a few days after the dinner given by Sir Hen- derson Strongham, as described in the last chapter but one, that our friends Fogue anid Gomery left England for the Continent, sphere they proposed to make a short tour, and thence return to the United States. But Joe Pumpagin had not yet accomplished his business; and, though hard pressed by his old friend Theron to accompany them, he de- clined. lHe had been present in the kitchen at the time the dinner was in progrless; and, when the news of the sudden indisposition of Lord Maccleton reached there, he had no doubt that an explosion of some kind had taken place be- tween him and Lady Beresford. The next day, he ques- tioned Theron closely on the af-tir, and from him he learned all the particulars without leading him to suppose he was moved by any thing more than his habitual -curliosity. Lord Maccleton was now become a feeble and tottering' old man. It was nearly sixty years that he had walked the earth with the horrid vision of the Gault massacre before his eyes; and now it' seemed that all his pi'ide of family, his ambitious schemes, were to come to nought, and he was to be held up to the scorn and contempt of the world, and the infallmy of his life mercilessly exposed. The estates that he had hoped would descend to the children of Lady Beresford, and which were to keep up the name and title of Maccleton, would revert to the heirs of his first wife; and it would be proved that Lady Beresford was not his daughter, but a sup- posititious child that hehad picked up to replace his own that VOL. It.      7 :?   74       GOMER- OF MONTGOMERY: had died in infancy. Then, too, the fearful tale of Gault's Hill would become known to all; and, of all men scorned and abhorred-throughout the land, he would be most univer- sally execrated. And, for a final exit like this from life's stage, he had borne through the weary years the miserable existence of a crimi- nal,- perpetually haunted by the apparition of his own climes. Why had 'he not died long ago, and ere the danger of any exposure;such as now was impending over him? Why had he lived so long? Few men with quiet consciences and hap- py homes lived to be so old as he; but even Death seemed to be in league with other demons to torture him. Such thoughts came crowding so thickly upon him, that he avoided the sight of everybody, and, retiring to the hall, gave out word that he should be busily engaged for some weeks, and did not wish to be interrupted. But he did not thus escape the watchful eye of Joe Pum- pagin. Joe had so attached himself to the head steward of Maccletonl Hall, that he- was always in demand; and no one suspected that behind those merry eyes, and that funny face, there was lurking a most desperate and unforgiving purpose. Yet Joe's feelings towards the object of his vengeance were not those of personal vindictiveness. He had no desire to inflict bodily pain or pecuniary loss on the man who had committed the awful crimes against his father and mother, and had caused him to be a wandering vagabond through the world. He was not even conscious of a vindictive thought towards the author of all this. Hie only felt that he was the instrument of punishment, in the order of Nature, to execute the decrees of justice, and followed the course he did as the clearly defined line of duty. It was not vin- dictiveness or hate that impelled him: it was the hand of' natural justice. - Except for his connection with the Gault massacre, Lord Macclethn was to him as any other man; and had he known of his having committed any other of- fence, more heinous if possible than this, against other par- ties, he would have thought or cared no more for it than if it had been committed by some one of whom he had never seen or heard befole.' But his part in the fearfl 'tragedy -was that of an avenger: he accepted it as such, and for many years had pursued his object with as unhesitating a purpose asrmost men pursue those avocationsthat bring gain os s-ottin           ht-r   A FAMLY HSTORY.         75 to their stores. His resources and ingenuity, we have seen, were very great; and even away off here at the hall, iwhere all was so quiet and beautiful, he would every day contrive some means to recall more vividly therecollection of the Gault tragedy. During, the time that the old Indian had quartered himself upon him in his wilderness home, he had learned from the hideous savage a peculiar whoop, such ,as he had never heard before or since. It Has not simply an Indian cry; but at first it was a long deep, savage howl, breaking soon into a womanlike screech, and then the weak scream or shriek of a child. This cry the old savage used to repeat again and again as he lay on -the floor of Joe's cabin; and, from the indistinct mutterings he made, it was clear that he was rehearsing in his mind the terrible scenes of years long, long agone. This cry, when Joe catme to know the Indian, he had no doubt was an imitation of the noises made at the time of the Gault massacre; and, if it left such an impression on the mind of the rude savage, what must it have been, on that of a man educated and sensitive like Lord Maccleton? Joe had learned to mimic the sound (as he was clever at imitation as at any thing else); and now, it occurred to him, was a favorable opportunity to try its a potency on the nerves of the lord of the manor. He had resolved on something of this kind some time before; and, thinking it might facilitate his purpose, he had, before leaving London, procured a cane to be made, about four feet long, that would open and shut like a telescope, and very similari to the patent fishing-rods that were subsequently in,* vented for the convenience of the disciples of Izaak Walton. Indeed, I am not sure but the first hint of that ingenious con- trivance was first given by Joe Pumpagin to the Bulls. Tak- ing an opportunity, when no one was in sight, Joe contrived to break out a smqall hole in a pain of glass. in a window of his. lordship's dormitory; and the same night,. at the hour when; he knew his infallibility first ventured to court his pillow, and. when the other persons on the premises were likely to be in- their soundest sleep (that is, about three hours past midnight), he left his room, and stationed himself - directly in front of his lordship's window.' He had not yet ietired; but Joe saw him approach the windov, and, raising the sash, look out into the darkness. He turned his face sideways, so that the ; light within the room clearly revealed his features; and there: t .   76-     'GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY : was such a look of agony, despair, and grief upon them, as ;Joe had never seen before. But it did not'occur to him that the sight of such misery had any thing to do with him. The agonized features awoke no sentiment of pity in his mind. He only saw in the wi-etched face of the old man the hard lines of inexorable law; and lhe thought no more of his own agency than as of a necessary part of the great enginery of the universe, that works out its destinies with the rigidity of fate.'  The old man turned away, the window was closed, and soon the light, disap'peared; and at last, as Joe imagined, the troubled mind of the old man -was seeking in sleep a tem- porary oblivion of its miseries. Then it was that Joe stepped forth ; afnd, having adjusted his hollow rod, he ap- plied one end to the brbken window-pane above his head, and putting his lips to the other end, that was dished out in the manner of the mouth of a speaking-trumpet, he began with the deep, heavy sound that he had learned from the old In- dian, and then followed the scream as of a woman,: and then the cries of a child. But this noise had not ceased before another, much louder, was heard within the room above. The voice of the unhappy man within could be heard call- ing out in an agony of terror, and shouting for help. No sooner had Joe heard the terror-stricken voice of his lordship than he quietly withdrew to his own room, and threw off his ,clothes so as to be duly unprepared. The ser-t vants, alarmed by the unusual noise; came running out in great terror, all in their night-clothes, armed with brooms, fire-shovels, and tongs, and wlatever el se came to hand. They dared not velture fiar into the darkness, though their mastei was shouting furiously for help, and directly came rushing through the house, and dashing down stairs, shouting "Mur- der, death, devils, and furies!"  But his very calls for help fiightened them, and drove them back to their rooms, where they barricaded, their doors ; for they all believed him, if not actually mad, at least as troubled with "thick-coming fan- cies;" and, if not now affrighlted by lesser spirits, they thought that the; Devil himself had come to claim him. They dared not venture to his aid, though he' called piteously for help; for they feared; that, if the old enemy of the saints-of - whom Vhoe born lords were, of course, the most shining;lights ---had come to claim one that had fallen into his power, i 1     ,          .   ,   A FAMLY HSTORY.        =7-7 he would catch up some others if he found them "lying round loose"? Directly a light was seen approaching; and the cheery voice of Joe was heard calling out, "What is the mat- ter?"Having rettrned to his room, he had no sooner divested himself of part of his clothing, and lit a candle, than he sallied forth, rubbing his eyes, and calling out incoherently, as if he had been a-roused from, a four-o'olock-in-the-morning sleep. Hearing his voice, and seeing the light moving about, the other servants, ventured from their rooms; and, the doors being opened, Joe entered the main hall, calling out in a stentorian voice, and asking what was up that they could not let honest folks sleep. The old man was still calling out piteously; and Joe led the way to where he lay at the foot of the stairs. In his flight, his weak and aged limbs had been unable to save him finom falling; and he lay at the foot of the stairs, bruiseid and helpless, shrinking and groaning, the very picture of re- morse and terror. The servants took hold of him to carry him back to his own room; but he begged them to take him to any part of the house but that; and he was accordingly borne away to a room in a distant part of the ]hall. 'Here he was laid upon a bed; and, bidding themn not to leave him alone, he closed his eyes as if to. shut out the horrors of the night.' The reader has observed long before this that the stlrange apparitions at Gault's Hill for years after the massacre, and which at first were r'egular in their appearance every night at the same hour, gradually became uncertain and fitful in their visits, until, in these later yeairs, they have appeared only at ve'y rare intervals. Bult it Vwouild appear, tlat, when'ever the mind of Lord TMaccleton was unusuAlly disturbed and torn, at the same hour and minute-making allowance for the longitudinal difference- the same sights and sounds as were witnessed by Robert Gomery and others, many, many years before, were seen and heard in and about the dilapidat- ed remains of-the old house that had been the scene of the dreadcful tragedy. Joe' had been aware of this fact fora long tilme; and the next morning he jotted downi in a memoran- dum-book the day of the occurrences now recorded, and said to himself, c We Will see now what happened on the hill last night." It was the night of the 22d of February; and, on his return, he letarned, that, on that night, the anniversary ball of Washington's birthday had been given as ustual at Diller's Tavern. The dancing began early, and broke off early; that , -  7* ,  -  ' -   78      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: ' isit began at five o'clock in the afternoon, and ceased at haf- past eleven in the evening, There was a hired man on the Gomery Place at that time, who .had been engaged by Dillers to lend assistance, on this extra occasion, at the stable; and he' returned to the hill, anld reached the house at the same Lmo- ment that a more ambitious spark arrived, bringing horme a young lady that was visiting, at the time, at the house. The fair maid had but just stepped inside the door when a strange noise was heard in the direction of the old house; and the two men, each gathering courage from the presence of the other, ran out to look for the cause of it; and, sure enough, the old apparition, such as they had heard ofea thousand times, but never seen, was clearly before their eyes. Then followed s the same stra'nge sounds which tradition reported as having once haunted'the place. The next day, the circunmstance was talked about in the house; and the young lady sail, that, a month before, she had heard an unusual noise at about the same time of night, and getting up, and looking out of her window, a strange an dlvlrid light was seen in the old hovel, that soon went out; ,after which she fancied she heard the screaming and crying of a child. This was the first night after her arrival at the hill; and Joe learned by comparing dates when he came to the hill, it was same day that Sir Henderson Strongham gave the great dinner, to which Foguo and Gomery had, been invited. As Lord Maccleton lay upon his bed crushed and, discom- fited, it seemed to him that universal anarchy-was coming upon the world. All his cherished ideas and unquestioned convictions seemed to be giving way, and all was a haze to his mind. He, even he,was held to an accountability for acts towards those to whom men of his class were in no way accountable. How was this? Were the laws of Nature changed? Was it come to this, that one of the old nobility, of that class which in all things was to be imitated, and in few things to be questioned, was to be made to repent for acts towards those who had no rights that they were bound to respect? Had not the experience of ages sanctioned and sanctified the privileges of immunity from moral responsibil- ity? Had not the rebellion against it been followed by a wholesome re-action, that had caused the bones of its sternest, bravest leader to be disinterred and exposed, a ghastly spec-   aA FAMTILY HSTORY.         70 tacle, to all posterity, to admonish future generations of the immaculate privileges of nobility? Was he not of that class? and -was -he not of those anointed to decide on the rubric and the liturgy, on what is orthodox and what is heterodox? Is it not in the established order of things that he is a guide and example, a being of a superior order? and when he and his peers decide on what:is right and true, both in regard to things, temporal and things spiritual, is it not rank heresy, presump- tuous doubt, and: unpardonable sin, to question their infallibil- ity? And has it come to this, that there is a power in Nattire to overwhelm them with remorse? The insolence of the idoa! To give in charity and live generously was consistent With their duties; but to be responsible for deceiving or trampling on the poor helpless wretches below them was so palpable a violation of privilege, that an act of Parliament must be at" once procured to forbid it. What if, by fiaud, violence, and deception, they persuade vain and indigent beauties fro0 the path of virtue: do they not make ample reparation by allotting aday's income each year for their support? and, besides this, do not their victims have the honor of thke connection? Thoughts of this kind, often incoherent and disconnected, passed throu]gh the disordered mirid of Lord Iaccleton. A servant was despatched for the nearest surgeon, and, a little after sunrise, he-arrived at the hall; but, as the case baffled his skill, a famous Lopdon physician was sent for, who, did not-reach there before the afternoon of the next day. The old man had rallied a little in the mean while; but the phy- sician was perplexed exceedingly with the case. He could not make his diagnosis agree with the invalid's statement: he surmised a mental trouble, which the patient denied. In' this perplexity, he believed his own senses, and not his lord. ship's words; and, prescribing accordingly, left for home. The patient gradually rallied until the end of two weeks, when an event occurred, which so diverted his mind, and im- pelled him to action, that he speedily improved, and,--in .a week more, was apparently as well as before that dreadful night when he fancied he heard the voice of Sleeping Ven- geance again sounding in his ears. This event was followed. by another within a week, no less important to him, or less likely to distract his attention from other and more displeas,-  ing subjects. The first of these was the death of the he'ir/ of Broadleaj leaving his wife childless, and his father in a, I         80      GO1MEY OF MONTGO' MERY state of hopeless imbecility from which he'could never rally. This event, so entirely unexpected, left the vast estates of  that family to Lord Beresford, as next of kin, and heir-aDt-law. The oldt lord had often speculated on the p!robability of such an event ; but when, ten, years before, the direct heir had 'married, and his younger brotheq left on his travels, he con- clud-ed that the chances of Lord Beresford were ,n-ot worth any further thought, and so dis issed then matter from his mind. But' the young wife 'bo e only two childre; to her lord, and both diedl-in infancy; and, while as yet there was no prospect of another, the marquis himnself died, and on the very night that the mail firom London was conyeyinc a let- :ter with the information, that, a month b efore, his brother had died in the- Holy Land. The effect of this news was to arouse the flagging spirits of Lord Maccleton; and this sudden acquisition to his fami- ly importance he regarded as a special interposition of Provi- dencein h^s behalf, in colmpensation for what he ]lad already suffered in sustaining prerogative and privilege. Bult scarce-. ly had'he nierved himself to take in the fiull consolation of this event, when, the news camne th:it lis son-in-law, Lord Beresford, who had always been distinguished as the Imost dissolute'and dissipated lord in the three kingdolns, .tad killed-himself in a dirunken debauch. in which he was in- dulging in celebraltion of his great good fortune. 'But, in spite of this apparent interposition in his behalf, Lord Maccleton found himself involved in new difficulties. The son tof Lady Beresford (now a young man of seven and twenty), whose entire time, since leaving the university, had been spent- abroad, was inevitably the heir to the Broadlea estates; and there was not a drop of the blood of the Cum- berlands in his veins. An unlineal hand would grasp that inheritance. This, however, he cared little about, if the world knew it not. And so it would be in regard to the larger portion of Ihis own estates. That part which ciame by iis- first wife must all descend, according to the terms of settle- ment, to the heirs of her body. Bat the only heir had been murdered, more than half a century before, in America, and a backwoods child had been stolen and substituted for it. And- now this child, that had grown to be an elderly woman, had learned her history, and the nature of the act that had torn. her from her native home; and her conduct showed thai   A FAMLY HSTORY.        81 she was bent on exposing the author of it, and overwhelm- ing him, now that le was old and helpless, with disgrace and infamy. There seemed no escape for him; and She regret- ted that the good }Hindoo custom of wives burning them- /   selves on the funeral pyres of their husbands did not obtain in England; and he thought it very unreasonable that she Mwho had always passed as his daughter would not imitate her lord, and take herself off, and so leave the. inheritance to succeed in the most approv'ed and conservative manner. But, even then, there would have been great difficulties in the way. The intercepted letter convinced him that at least one other knew of the whole deception he had so long practised, and that not even death itself could avert the-im- pending catastrophe'. Turn which way he would, 'l1e saw no light to illume the brief path that lay between him and the grave. It was darkness, darkness , everywhere. I suspect there is muchll more personal selfishness in the desire of leaving vast estates to our lineal descendants than is generally supposed. When a man has acquired property, his love of fame tempts him to leave it, so that posterity will do hm honor. ILe delights to tie it up so with legal colds and forms, that it shall remain, for all time, ia monu- - ment of his own wisdoin. It is not plarental affection; for it conflicts with that, and, for the sake of keeping the estate intact, allows those of equal kin to remain in indigence, while the one who is to pelpetuate the founder's honor and fame rolls in wealth, and dispenses hospitality'to his peers. The great and rulingsidea is to keep up a faimily name and prestige that ordinary mnortals shall wonder at and admire;  nor does it matter so much that the original blood and stock shall be transmitted, as that the monument of Mammon, shall endure, and preserve its identity. Few of the older estates in England, though passing by the same titles (in law and in name) as centuries ago, are held by those who have in their veins any of the blood of their founders; and the most of those of a more recent period, judging from the expe- rienee of those who hlave preceded them, can have but slight expectation that their own lineal descendants are to be bene- fited by their efforts to link their names t:o the estates they entail. That is not the primary object. The primary object   is entire selfishness-and vanity, to be gratified at the expense of the nal ural affections, Hence it is that the' want of an heir: ,         ,       *    s   82      ooGERY OF MONTGOOMErRY : is liable to defeat- the best-laid schemes; and, if so be that the important and leading object be attained, the lesser con- sidertions-of ties of blood are swept away as trivial and unworthy. Nor is this confined to one class or to one nation: we see'. it everywhere. The most notable instance of modern times is the case of the present French despot. There was a Bo- naparte that shed gr'eat lustre oh the name. The terror of the world, he became the glory of France. He was at last overthrown, and left to die by slow rtorture on a desolate rock. But the spirit and enthusiasm of the French people for their great'hero survived, and burned to aggrandize the -name of Bonaparte. :The greatest hero the world had ever seen hid -sought to enroll himself among the recognized sovereigns of the earth, to found a Bonaparte dynasty. The French people recognized, in the glory he had conferred upon them, the right to do this. Time passed on; change after change occurred among the French people in allthings save one: their admiration for the great Nappleon was undimin- ished. Then a new man appeared, -a man of tenacious pur- pose and subtle capacity. -He called himself, and was called by the world, a Bonapalte; but history and scanidal and probability called him the son of a vagrom Dutchman. A later hero-worshipper attempts to prove that he is the son of his uncle. But what care the French people, or what cares anybody else, whose son he is? He passes as the Bona- parte. He is carrying into effect the idea of the great Na- poleon, and bending all his powers to firmly establishing a Bonaparte dynasty. His success counts with the world for the glory of the founder of the family; and hence it acqui- - esces in his pretensions. Thus Lord Maccleton cared less of what stock or blood the future possessors of the ancestral estates should be, than that they should be increased in extent and augmented in value,-and carry with them more influence in the country. His ambition had been to be known as that Lord Maccleton who had greatly magnified the house; and, if that object could have been attained by a change of babes in their swad- dling-clothes, he would have thought it a perfectly proper and legitimate transaction. Such things had been fiequently done, not only at the instigation of kings, but with the ap-, proval of priests. Then why should he scruple? That view: I   A FXAMT, HSTORY.:       83 of the case never troubled him in the least. The fears th'at were upon him were of exposure;.and this, toq, from the refusal of the suposititious heir to be made a party to the fraud.  While Lord M8ccleton Was in this dilemma, debating in his own mind various plans for extricating himself from his troubles, the course of the law was onward. The death of the Marquis of Broadlea and of the Lord Beresford had ne- cessitated important law proceedings. Of course, Lady Beres- ford would be called upon to affix her signature, and give her assent to various authorizations and transfers. Lord Maccleton, shut up, at home, scarcely dared to learn what was going on. He believed that she would seek -some occa- sion as public as possible to precipitate the catastrophe; and he was not surprised, therefore, when he learned that she utterly refused to take any steps in the matter. Her son's solicitor, suspecting nothing, went to consult with Lord Maccleton in regard to her contumacy, and to urge him to use his influence with her. As may be supposed, he declined to see her ladyship. Hence it became necessary to apply for a mandamus to compel her to the performance of acts that were in conformity to her own interests. This part of the story, in hands moine familiar with English life and manners, might jmake an interesting chapter in this book. But I pass it over, simply narrating how that Lady Beresford was brought into court; how that the whole country around was greatly astonished at her conduct, and af great crowd was in, the court-room- when the complaint against her was read. The woman had nerved herself to a rigid calmness: she sat immovablelas marble, and appeared to notice nothing. "After the prelim'inaries had been gone through with,: the judge turned to the defendant, and said, "As your ladyship has allowed the proceedings to be taken, I suppose you have retained counsel." In a clear' voice she anlswered, 4 I have no counsel; and I desire none. I am not the person named in that paper which has just been read." "'Not Lady Beresford!" " "I an. Lady Beresford. But the person therein described is Lady Emily Cumberland, daughter of Lord Maccleton, and relict of Lord Beresford, I am not the daughter of Lord   84'      GOMERY OF MONTGOMUERY: Maccleton, and my true- name never was Emily Cumber- land." :"Your ladyship, this is a very singular proceeding on your part. Please explain."' "My name was Judith Gault. I was born in the forests of America. My father and mother were murdered by the hands or at the instigation of Col. CLumberland, now Lord Maccleton. I was stolen away; and, ere my lips had learned to Speak the name of my parents, I was made to take the place of his child that had come to a violent death." Here the proceedings were summarily stopped. The court- room was ordered to be cleared, and Lady Beresford was taken away to her own house.- It was busily circulated that Lady Beresford had become deranged; but Joe Pumpaigan took good care that the truth should not be-silenced in that way. He sent a brief anonymous statement of the facts of the case to the judge, and warned him that silence was impossible. Great pains were taken to keep the affair from the newspa- i pers, and they were successful. But they were well known in high quarters; and the first official intimation that Lord Maccleton had of his exposure was a fofmal notice that he had been disgracefully dropped from the retired list of the army. Soon after, it was ;announced that the recent additions to the M:accleton estates would not descend in the regular line to young Henry Torley, the son of Lady Beresford, but that they would all :lapse to the other heirs of the first wife of Col. Cumberland, who never lived to. become Lady Maccle- ton. It was said, also, that there could be no union of the two estates; that Henr PrTorley, now Lord Beresford, would only inherit the estate of his father; and that Maccleton would go\tothe eldest son of Lord Maccleton by his second wife, who, as we have seen long since, had inherited his infir- mity, ana often saw the same dreadful apparition that had so long haunted the guilty old man. It had been the same with a sister older than hle, who, the nurse8 and gossips said, had been frightenedl out of her life, at the age of seven, by the sight of ghosts. The heir to the title and estates had from infancy been affected in the same way, and so had the two younger children. They would, each and all, in their childhood, describe to their playmates and governesses the Gault tragedy, precisely as it appeared to Robert Gomery and   PA F ILY HSTORY/.       85 his wife and many others, more othan half a century before they were born. Their father had been aware of this; and the sight of them, with their heads jerking at times, and their eyes shrinking, and turning away firom an apparition of which he knew too well its dreadful character, had so disturbed him, that he scarcely ever allowed himself to look upon them, and, after the Jeatli of their mother, never went near, them, and never allowed them to come near the hall. During the time that these developments wele being made, Lord Maccleton never went out of the hall. His - solicitor was the only person besides one servant that he al- lowed to approach. The affair was in such high life, that great -pains were taken to keep the facts of the case from reaching- the public ear; andc all the newspapers likely to divulge them were duly bribeA to silence. But their pains werel set at nought by the still unappeased Joe Pumpagin. He had prepared a small pamphlet, and found means to have it printed, giving the history of the Gault tragedy, and the substitution of the infant Gault for the infant Cumberland. One of these was first: found in Lolrd Maccleton's chamber; and the next day there was not an ale-house, and bIt few dwelling-houses, within many miles, that did not contain one. The pamphlet concludced with saying that the author :was the son of the murdered Gault, and brother of La dy Beres- ford; that for twenty-fivel years he Ihad followed the guilty wretch who had caused all this misery; that .he was still in the midsti of the people who dwelt near Maccleton, as en- tirely unsuspected as any one could be who read his state- ment; that now he had finished his work, as justice had -worked out his evenges; and lie should return to the land of his birth, and at last rest by the side of those whose wrongs he had spent his life in avenging. What passed between -Lord Maccleton and his solicitor, after this pamphlet came into the hands of the former, is not known. The latter came in, and foundlhis lordship sitting -in his arm-chair, holding the pamphlet in his hand. "What!"' exlclnimed the lawyer': have you got one of those?" "How!" said Lord Maccleton, starting up: "have you seen it before?" "Seen, it!-- yes. Some busy fool has circulated it all through the country. But nobody will believe it, of course." VOL, I.    ' 8  E    86       GOMERY O  MONTGOMERY-: An hour after, the lawyer left the room, and was gone for about twenty minutes. When he returned, Lord Maccleton lay upon the floor dead, his throat cit firom ear to ear, a razor still clutched in his right hand. A week after this, the American ship "Osprey" left the port of Liverpool for New York. Among her passengers, but under fictitious names, were Lady Beresford alid Joe Pumpagin.   A FAMLY HSTORY,          87 ' i    ,  CHAPTER VL !"Ye hae sac monie cracks an"cants; And in your wicked drucken rants Ye mak a devil o' the saints, An' fill them fou; And then their failings, flaws, an' wants Are a' seen through."--BURNS. IF this history-has shown onething more clearly than oth- ers, it is that Joe Pumpagin was possessed, to a remarkable degree, of that quality of strength which is called patience. He never feared that his plans would miscarry through delay; but his faith in the natural justice that rules the earth was so strong, that he seemed possessed of that sixth sense that some one has called the " sense of opportunity."   On reaching New York, therefore, after his voyage across the ocean,- during which timeit may be supposed he recounted to his titled sister the strange events of his life more minutely than he had opportunity previously to do, --it was not in accord- ance with his character or-habits to rush to Montgomery and astonish the people with his discoveries, and account to them for his strange career. On the contrary, it was arranged that Lady Beresford should first go up there by herself and con- trive some excuse for spending a week in the place,'and grat- ify her curiosity by visiting the scene of her birth and earli- i est recollections, and then return to Boston, and there await the arrival of her brother after he had attended to certain business affairs ,of importance. He had now been absent many years, and, during that time, the country had made great progress; and he considered it imperative that he should go immediately, and look after his real-estate investments in the interior of the State. Accordingly, having seen his sister set forth, With her faithful servant-maid who had accompanied her from England, on her excursion to Montgomery, he took passage up the river, and madehis way with all despatch to tis former home, the Scene of his firsttencoanter with Sleeping   88       GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: Vengeance. The country through which he passed was no longer a wilderness. Though much of the primeval forest was still standing, yet good roads and bridges had been built, mail and stage routes established, and along their lines were many fine farms with substantial houses and barns, fat cattle, hor&es and sheep grazing in pastures, and fields of waving grain just now ripening for the sickle, at the period h1e passed along. As he a)proached his own tract, he found that the main road that -le from the most important port on Lake Ontario to Albany passed along the valley of the stream of which he had been wise enough, many years before, to appropriate to himself the only available waterfall for many miles on either side.                    , A considerable village had grown up at the place; and he was welcomed by the people there for reasons that he had not foreseen. When last there, it will be remembered, he  had sold, a ten-acre tract from his lot to a millwright, and  leased him a water-privilege on terms that required him to renew the lease on easv conditions, or take the improvements at their value. Thbs there were saw-mills and grist-mills already doing a thriving business; and Joe no sooner cast his eyes Ion the site of his purchase of a. dozen years before, than he knew he was.,a rich man.  The vil:gers welcomed him   as the proprietor and the capitalist; and, of course, showed him great respect and' attention. But they wereI puzzled to make out who and what he was. His old habit of telling marvellous stories richly garnished with quotations from Shakspear- still clung to him; and, whatever conflict of opinion there riught be in regard to his antecedents, he was unanimously declared to be very amusing. He had seen, in more than one 'instance, the folly of landholders acting the dog in the manger till they had forced into demand land' naturally less eligible than their own, till they were at last glad to sell for a tithe of what they could once have com- manded.  He determined not to err in that way, and so an, noutnced a readiness to- sell certain parts of his estate at prices such as were regarded by all as Reasonable. But he, was a little particular to whom --he sold; and it was found,' after a time, that he was a mortal enemy to flip-drinkers l This was Tnot suspected at first: quite the reverse. The drink had n'ot been known in the village previous to his ar- rival; btt, within a short time, he had taught the landlord   A FAMLY HSTORY.         89 of the village inn how to make it, and many others how to drink it. Indeed, I begin to suspect that flip was an engine of his craft; for it is certain, that, when he found a person easily persuaded to drink it, he could never come to terms 'with him onl the price of a lot. But a man whom he could never wheedle or coax to drink more than a single glass of that insinuatingo beverage could almost make his, own terms with him. If he was intelligent, and had a will of his ownr - and those whom he could not persuade to drink flip gen- erally were so,- Joe would let him have land at his own price, and give him his own time in which to pay for it. He had learned thus much from the example of Gomery of Montgomery, - that the prosperity of a place depended very much on the sobriety and intelligence of its early settlers. If they were industrious and temperate, then the place would ]have a character for thrift and morality for generations; but, if they stamped it as a "' rum-hole," it remained a " rum-hole" in spite of temperance societies or river water. But he took care, after having his land all surveyed and laid out in lots, to sell only alternate plots or blocks, reserving to himself the squares intervening; knowing fill well, that, with thogrowth of the town, they would increase enormously in value. 'His arrival at the place seemed to give a sudden impetus to'busi- ness; and, within a month of his return, he had sold lots alouanting to several thousand dollars. The demand for lumber for building was such, that a new saw-mill, Pith shin- gle and clapboard machines, was immediately commenced; and a bargain was struck with Joe, by a young man who had lately come into the village bringing a few thousand dollars- capital, for the site and privilege for a large flouring-mill that was to grind all the wheat rais'ed in the neighboring country. Joe's popularity when hei reigned flush at Diller's--Tavern,. and dispensed flip among his admirers had never been so  great as it now was in this modern village of Barkersville, named after its first settler, Capt. Ben. Barker, who the reader may rememnber as the nearest neighbor of Joe at the time of his first residence there, and who assisted him in burying Sleeping Vengeiance.  But, popular as he was, the villagers were sadly perplexed what to make of him. They knew nothing of him, except that he had come to the place a lon time ago, and secured the most valuable town-site within many miles; and that he was a most inveterate joker and 8*   90       GOMERY OF- MONTGOM'ERY': story-teller, quoting Shakspeare on all occasions, whether it was in sending a dog after cattle, by bidding him to "' stand not oni the order of his going, but go at once," or in' excus- ing himself to his flip-drinking companions, that he might woo that gentle sleep,--'" sleep that knits up the ravelled sleave of care." From their prying and inquisitive manner, he saw that :iple wei'e dying to know more about him; and he was too good-natured not. to oblige tfhem. But his accounts of him- self were sadly inconsistent with each other. At one time, he would say that he was a retired New-York merchant, living in fine style in Beekman Street, and that he, his wife, and daughter would be delighted to receive visits from his Bar- kersville friends and he should take it as a personal affront if they did not one and all, when they came to New York, make his house their home for themselves and families. This rendered him immensely popular with the- women folks for a time, as scarce a woman in Barkersville but had promised herself a visit and'a month's sojourn in New York within a year; and, fathers and, husbands could no longer refuse, as there would be no tavern-bills to pay. But this illusion -was- soon dispelled when- it was known that to an- other company of inquisitors he had said he was a West- India merchant, living most of his time, and doing business, at Matanzas, When asked to explain how it was that he lived in Matanzas, and did business, when he had only the day before reported that he was a retired merchant living in Beekiman Street; New York, he said he would be honest, and own up that hc/ hiad been deceiving them; that he was a Boston clergymin! of the most approved and Orthodox cut. But this story s'eemed more incredible than either of the others, or the two combined; for his incurable and original style of swearing rendered this pretension so absurd, that one of his listeners timidly asked how it was that he swore so if he was a clergyman., "Swear!" said he: "I don't swear; I, only use strong ad- jectives. I got in the habit by preaching. I used to threaten hell-fire so much to sinners, that I got used to it; and I talk now of the Devil, and his dominions like an acquaintance." Certain persons were greatly shocked at this explanation; and were much relieved when they beard, soon after, that ke claimed to be a retired sea-captain: Ihnfact, he never told   A FAMLY HSTORY.        91 the same- story of himself twice: and, when people came to compare notes, they, found they could make neither head nor ] tail from his own words, as to what he was; and, as they concluded that he did not wish if to be known, they became doubly curious about it. However, he did not long remain among them, but left them to wonder at his queer stories and odd ways. He returned to New York, and made a de- posit of the money he had received at Barkersville, and arranged his old account with the bank, thathad only known him, or of him, by an occasional draft -for the last twenty years. Having thus duly arranged his business-affairs, and feeling so tired of wandering and unrest, that he thought, if he once more got back to Montgomery, he never would leave it again, heb set forth for that longed-for haven; and there, sur- rounded by those friends best beloved of all he had met in all his weary,-eventful life, he hoped to pass the remainder of his days. But it was not characteristic of this philosopheri to leap before he looked. He resolved to abide on his way, for a time, at the "City of Notions,'" and await advices from his sister, who had preceded :him some weeks before. There he took lodgings at a noted hotel of the day, called the City Tavern, which -was a favorite boarding-place of the mem- bers of the General Court;'as the State Legislature was then called. Here he soon made himself famous by his art in making flip, and taught the landlord how to make it; so that the house soon became immensely popular. The So- lons of the State capital used to congregate in large num- bers in the bar-room every evening; and on one occasion it was announced on the floor of the house, by a member more ready wsith familiar than classical illustrations, that it was ".as clear that the fisheries should 'be protected, as that the best flip in all Boston could be had at the City Tavern." Joe had been a guest of the City Tavern about three days, when he received a letter from his sister, giving an account of her experience since she left him in New York. She had arrived in due time at Montgomery with her maid, and stopped at the tavern of his old friend Diller. She had feigned fatigue as a reason for delaying a few days on her journey; and as she professed to be travelling for health and amusement, and was much charmed with the   92  ..GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY:  scenery around Montgomery, she easily excused her long tarry there. But she said great changes must have taken place there since, he had left; for" the family of Gomery, of which she had heard him speak, had -lost all their property, and, besides, had lost the good Wxill of a great many of the people; that the old place on the hill, as well as all the original tract first owned by Gornery, was being sold off, except only the place called the Pivot, where the old squire still con- tinued to live with his wife, though his children had all left him. She said that she had made an offi' to buy the old place, including the spring called the "Weeping Angel.;" and that it had been accepted, though the papers had not been yet drawn, nor had she come provided with money sufficient for the purchase. Joe was greatly disturbed at this news, and resolved to proceed without further delay to Montgomery; and he made hls arrangements to start the next morning. Now, among the persons who used to congregate at the City Tavern, and drink flip, there was a tall, spare man, with hair slightly gray, teeth white and always visible, and silver- bowed spectacles. He used to come in every evening about seven o'clock, anld leave about half-past nine. The reader may recognize in this description our old acquaintance, Seth Mettlar. He sipped his flip with as keen, a relish as Joe himself, or the eloquent member of the General Court from Farmington, who had advertised the hotel and its flip in his eloquent and patriotic speech on the fisheries. Joe, at first sight, had conceived a great dislike to the mousing attorney; and, as he always was pleased to have a butt for his jokes, he made him the object of all his funny sayings that re- quired to be personal in r'der to be pungent. 'In relating his most marvellous stories, he would address himself directly to Seth, and then ask him if he believed -them, with such a tone and air, that his victim dared only to say yes, until at last he found he was becoming not only the butt of Joe, but of all those who were wont to meet at the City Tavern., At last he resolved to show the;spirit of a man, and say no. This resolution he made known, to one of his fellow-sitters, who straightway informed Joe that Seth was determined to 'give him a piece of his mind, and 'that he would put him to such open shame by exposing his arrant lies, that he would never dare show his head again at the City Tavern.   A FAMLY HSTORY.        93 Thus forewarned, Joe took his customary place in the bar. room of the -hotel; and as he was intending to leave the next morning for-Motn tgomery, and, besides that, was expect- ing a fierce battle with Seth, he ordered the host -to keep the flip flowing, at his expense, during the whole evening. There chanced to be an unusual number present on the, occasion, including several stranger-guests; and Joe began telling various yarns, more or less absurd, and kept it up till the third pitcher of flip had been disposed of. Then, turning upon Seth so as to draw all eyes upon him, he said, "I had a strange adventure up towards the State House to-day." '"Indeed!" said Seth. "What was that?" ; Why, you see, I was walking along, arm-in-arm, with the governor. The governor and I are old friends: we have drunk flip together a thousand times; but then he could never put away the quantity that you do. We were walking along up near the Common, when I bade him good-mlorning, and walked down Park Street by myself, till I met a most beautiful lady. She looked at me, as much as to say, 'I am no such woman.' Of course I, too, scorned the imputation, and walked on, like Queen Elizabeth, 'in maiden meditation, fancy-free.' You know ;what, Shakspeare .says about that. But, just, then, I saw a horse running away lick-a-ti-cut'with a bran-new carriage, in which sot this same beautiful lady. Oh! she was beautiful. She far excelled any woman of modern times. - In fact, she put me in mind of Helen and Penelope and Xenophlon."- :'Xenophon wa'n't a woman, you ignoramus you!" said Seth. "Xenophon wa'n't a woman! How-do you know -that?" "Why, all the books say so,--all the Greek histories." "Weil, they don't know any thing at all about it. I have seen some of his relations; and they say he was a woman." "How could you see his relations 9 He has been dead these three thousand years." "FHow do -you know that-? Can you remember three. thousand years ago? I want you to know, you mousing, deceitful owl! that I have travelled some. I have been in all those countries; have been where he used to live, and sell soap, candles, and combs; and I saw his tombstone, and on it was writ these words: 'Sacred to the memory of Geolge Washington Xenophon, beloved wife of Alexander   ",      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: the Great, who died in the faith of the gospel, nine hundred and sixteen years before Christ.", .  "How could he die in the faith of the gospel before ,Christ?    '          .  "The fashions were different then. Children are ofte born there before their fathers arid mothers; and time goes' the other way, and the water runs up hill. The sun rises in the west, and it is midnight just after sunrise." "What is the name of that country?" sneered Seth. "It is called Abyssinia; but the people there are so ashamed of their country, because it is so different from the rest of the world, that, when they catch a foreigner among them, they make him swear not to tell of it." "How did you get off- then?" asked Seth. "Oh! I stole away in the night on the back of a snapping- turtle. The third day out, we hailed a vessel bound for Baltimore. They took us both on board. The turtle was served up for soup, and capital good soup it made too! It made a mess for all hands!" "Couldn't you tell us something that has a word of truth in it, just for a change?" said Seth. "The truth you want, do you'? Why, if the truth were known, unless your face is a lie, you would be in the State Prison. And you question my veracity, do you?--you sneaking cat-butcher, you canting copper-catcher, you ghoul, you counterfeit of a man made by one of Nature's journey- men, aRs Shakspeare says, and not made well at that, since you imitate humanity so abominably!' "I am afraid," said Deacon Giles of Marblehead, -"I am afraid you read your Shakspeare more than your Bible." "Perhaps I do," said Joe; 1" but I have read them both, till, as Shakspeare says,' they are familiar in my mouth as house- hold words."'         -  "It is only another proof that the word,. on the unre- generate heart, is ' like seed sown in stony places."' "You judge hastily, my Christian friend; but you are greatly deceived." "What! you don't pretend that you are a professor?"  "No: I am not a professor," said Joe. "In fact, I have found that those who profess much have their -own reason for doing so; as, by professing strongly, they think to make up for delinquencies in doing. I come far sholrt of the per-   A FAMLY HSTORY.         95 - feet man, I am well aware: therefore I study, quote, and I  live by Shakspeare. He was neither saint nor professor. I, though some might doubt it, neither fast twice in a week, nor give tithes of all I possess. In iact, as Shakspeare says, I am 'little better than one of the wicked.' My range of thought is, I confess, not so high as I could wish. It is of human mould, and not of the divine. Now, Shakspeare epitoimiized all human thoughts. All great, noble, sublime, ' poetic, subtle, sympathetic ideas that ever it entered into the heart of man to conceive, passed through his all but inspired mind. You shall read the great thoughts and grand conceptions of all men who preceded him; and, for each one, I will find you "a line in Shakspeare that shall better express it, and show you that it was better comprehended and appreciated by him than by its first author. Not only were all men's thoughts in that one head, but that head was a refining crucible for them all; and he sent them forth purified of their dross, - pure ethereal gems of fancyw:it, and wisdom. The first dawning sense of early love by him was set in words that give back to all lovers their vague, unpronounced sensations, with all their virgin delicacy, yet clearly and sharply defined as -a problem of Euclid. The great schemes of ambition that have moved conquerors to battle, to intrigue, to treachery, were all before him, as if he read, as in a glass, the very words of the projectors, and searched, and brought to light, with a distinctness that makes them shudder at their own deformity, the low mo- tives and selfish ends that influence Vbase minds. -He has searched the human heart, and laid ba!e its wickedness, at the same time that he has set in a clearer light than all other men of mere human gifts the nobler' attributes of the human heart." "That is little better than blasphemy," said Deacon Giles. "There is only one Searcher of hearts; and he has said, 'The wicked shall not go unpunished."' "Have patience, my Christian. friend!" said Joe, " and be not alarmed, lest I escape the damnation you seem to covet for all who don't- believe as you do. I have said that all human thoughts that the world had known in Shakspeare's day seemed to have passed through his capacious, refining mind; but his thoughts were of the earth, earthy. There was one, long before Shakspeare, 'whose shoe-latchets he was                     +   9'6.     GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: not worthy to unloose.' 'The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God;' and many men accounted wise have said the same: and they have sought to prove that the Son of' man was no other than a man; for that, before he appeared on the earth, other wise and good/men liad enunciated many of his doctrines. But I say, that, as all human thoughts found place in Shakspeare's mind, so all that/:the world had known of the divine character and attributes found expression and illustration in the words and life of Christ. Nothing godlike was ever spoken by saint or pro- phet but that it came from Jesus' lips with a finer sense, a diviner influence: ,His thoughts and conceptions were as high above Shakspeare's as heaven is higher than the earth. Shakspeare could reveal the human heart to its innermost - depths; but the divinity as shown in the life of Christ was beyond him. He could depict the workinogs of FHamlet's thoughtful, vacillating mind-; but he never imagined a character with that faith in the divine power, that it would say to his followers, 'Leave all, and follow me.' He could show the moving springs of kings and tyrants that made them pronounce' remorseless judgments against innocent offenders- and fallen favorites; but the sublimity of him who said to the woman taken in sin,' Neither do I condemn thee; go, and sin no more,' was not of the human kind; and you may search Shakspeare, from the 'Tempest' to ,Othello,' aind you will find nothing bearing the impress of divinity like that. Devils like, Iago, and monsters like. Macheth, and lovers like Romeo and Juliet, he could draw to their nicest shade! of thought; but he who described the returning prodigal was possessed with those divine attri- butes never limned by Shakspeare. The one epitomized the thoughts, of men; the other, the attributes of God." At this rapostrophe or panegyric on the gleat poet, Seth looked again at his persecutor; andc for the first time, thle truth flashed upon his mind, that he was in the presence of Joe Pumpagin, of whom he hadl heard much during his Visits at Montgomery.  The burly form, the queer nose with hori- zontal nostrils, exactly accordecI with the descriptions he had had of that singular individual; but the identity oft the man before him with the hero- of the "great baby ball"' and the "great drunk," of which he had heard many accounts, had never occurred to him till now, when he heard the name of , *                ,   -A AMTPY HSTO RY*  Shakspeare, and then the truth flashed across his mind. a once his boldness and his spirit of contradiction forsook hit.. He would have left the room; but by this time the brlawny figure of Joe was before him,'and he quivered and gasped as if he felt that his last hour was come. . "You don't believet'me, then, do you?" said Joe. "Ye-es,--ye-es. I meant no offence.' "You believe all that about Xenophon?" "Yes,  yes." "And about the sun rising in the west?" "Yes."      . , And that it is midnight just after sun-p?  "Oh, yes! that too. Any thing!" "Well, it is well you do; but hark me, my beauty, if yqo ever question my stories again, I will tell a tale hat s shut you in prison for the rest-of your days! i " With this he turned away; and, as just at the instant a fresh pitcher of smoking flip was set on the table, he turned to fill his glass, and, as le did, said, as if musing to himself, O Shakspeare, Shakspeare! well might you ,sayi ,  How this world is given to lying!"' Having filled his own glass, he called on the others to push forward theirs, and, for tilt first time, found that Seth did not come up to share the third pitcher d e had left,-discomfited; and Joe, looking about, and not seeing him, resumed, as if still ImuII si ; Um the coward! No   wonder e quails, with such a consciene as he carries behind those restless, villlanous eyes! Ah, yes{ Shakspeare was right when he said, 'Thus conscience doth make cowards of us all '"' .         .  "You are rather  severe on our friend the s aher' said Col. Bowles, a representative from the western part of the "So it seems to me," said another member of the General Court. "I am not personally nequainted with him; bu!t he is repute to be a very respectable man, and a man of large wealth, and very benevolent andn conscientious. 1 "Never saw the- man in my life till'I saw him here," said Joe. I don't know his name, or any thing about him, -but his face; and I  tell you he is a Villain, or else his Creator don't write a legible hand!- I saw villany lurking behind those eyes; and dark deeds don eo  e tehirare thii aw y shines  throragh them, s, peetacle and all;:and i can -ea 'o vOL. 'If. '.   98      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: clearly as by the light of noonday, the acts of a villanin that countenance. I have seen eyes before haunted by an evil conscience; and I tell you that man drinks flip, not because he likes it, but to drown his coward conscience! "You were never so mistaken in all your life," said Deacon Giles of Marblehead. "'I know Brother Mettlar well, and I am proud to own him as a friend and a brother. Hle is, indeed, a pillar of the Church. Some men are tried by afflic- tion and adversity, and some by the more trying ordeal of prosperity; and Brother Mettlar has passed throlugh that ordeal, and come outt like gold seven times purified. As he has grown rich, he has become more religious and benevolent; and the vanities of "this world, he has often assured me, have far less attraction for him than in the days when he was poor. He has no fellowship with sin now: far from it. A ser- vant-boy that he had taken from the alms-hluse so shocked him by straying on the Common one Sunday, that he could not restrain himself from so severely punisling him, that he was arraigned before the police-couirt, and fined for it fifty dollars. But, when the matter was brought before the vestry, he said that every blow inflicted had pnined him twice as much as the boy; but his abhorrenCe of sin was so great, that when he returned from church, after listening to a most con- vincing sermon on the eternal horrors that hang around the second death, his conscience would neither permit sleep to his eyes, nor slumber to his eyelids, till he had severely pun- ished this child of sin. We all felt our own too-frequent weaknesses under such circumstances; and, inasmuch as he had given the church a new communion-service a few days before, the:.members voted to raise the money by contribution to pay the fine. You should recollect, sir, that, when you speak of stch a man as a villain, you reflect on many of the most substantial and most religious and respectable men- and women too-,in Boston."    .         d "Your panegyric only convinces me more and more that he is a villain,'-a doubly-dyed, damned villain! and how men of sense could ever be deceived by such a hypocrite is beyond my comprehension." "Well: iti is idle to waste breath on such an unbeliever., To mle, the life :of Seth Mettlar is a bright and shining example, and shows the reward that follows well-'doing, and trusting in divine Providence. Indeed, his remarkable sue-   A FAMLY HSTORY.       g9 cess in life has frequently been cited as proof of the direct interposition of the Lord, and is, to all liberal and evangelical 'minds, a complete, convincing proof of special providence, and is like a voice from- the other world rebuking the hea- thenish, infidel idea of universal, unchanging law. His expe- rience is a beautiful illustration of the lines, - 'Religion never was designed To make our pleasures less.'  Why, how was that? How has'luch a libel on humanity been so especially favored as to indicate that he is to be imitated?"                      "The manner in which his property came to him, or rather was thrown upon him, was most singular; and, since we have got into this discussion, I will, with the permission of the company, relate how it was."  : ' "Let us hear how it was, then, when the Devil was upper- most! - Deacon Giles rolled lip his eyes at this, as a pious ejacu- lation against the unregenerate unbeliever. Then, turning -away firom 'him as something to be shunned, and directing his conversation to others, but intending it especially for Joe, lie began: -'  "You have all of you heard of old Col. Scranton, who lived in this city, and died some eight or ten years ago, leaving one of the largest estates ever acquired, up to that tim, by any one, maln in this part of the world. Well, at the ltime of his death, Seth Mettlar, whom this man has just abused so outrageously, was a poor lawyer, who got his living by copying, arranging. and adjusting accounts, and doing the drudgery of such lawyers as were more profitably employed. In doing such things, he was known to be very/careful and precise; and when Col. Scranton died, leaving his books and papers in confusion, he was engaged to adjust and arrange them. Well, as he went on overhauling and assorting them, he discovered that long, long years before,--in fact, when Col. Scranton was a young man,--he. had sold ,a piece of a land to a man away back in the woods, and made a deed for it, and forgot all about it, and neglected to deliver it. Col. Scranton, as everybody knows, was a very honorable man; but he had a very loose way of doing business. He-carried his accounts very much in his head; and, it is supposed, had hiecut  eym }.            sp,    100      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY  forgotten about having sold this land, or that he had ever made out and executed a deed for it. Indeed, it is known,' that the land was not fully paid for, but that another payment was expected on it, and that the deed had already been / made out, ready to deliver on application. But, before it was called for, it w6uld seem that the man and all his family were killed by the British and Indians during the time of the war; and, as this deed was never asked for, the land was sold again, after a number of years, to a man by the name of Gomery."                  ; "Gomery, sir!" exclaimed Joe, turning his face to the shad- ow, that the interest he was taking might not be observed. v"Gomery, or Montgomery: Gomery I think it is. Yes; Gomery is the name of the family, and Montgomery the natne of the town. 'Well, as I was saying, he bought the same tract of land that had before been sold to the man who had been killed, and went and settled on it; and was just getting fairly started in the world, when :he died,--he was frozen to death, I think,--and left a son, who inherited the property. This son, in time, grew up, and became a lawyer; , and the tract of land became the site of a thrifty village, and very. valuable. But observe the ways of Providence: this Gomerywas not on the Lord's side, and, of course, the Lord was not on his side; and, when Seth Mettlar came to overhaul Col. Scranton's papers, he fo'nd a deed and letter showing that the tract bought by Gomery had been sold, long before, to another man. This was a discovery sorely trying to a man so scrupulous and conscientious as Seth; and he has frequent- ly said he had never so felt hisown weakness and sinfulness as on this occasion. It was in; Wrestling wit'i this temp- tation, he has assured me, that he first was awakened to his lost and unregenerate state, and experienced the saving grace, and was taken into the church." , "Do you reemeber the name of the man that first bought the land of Col. Scranton?9" quietly asked Joe. "Gault. You must have heard, when you were a boy, about the'Gault massacre. -This Gault was the same man killed by the Indians and British.  "I think I have heard something about it,' said Joe. "Was the whole family killed? , "No; and that is just where the special providence comes in'. One of the children was saved,as it were, by a divine "   A FAMLY HSTORY.        101' interposition in behalf of Seth Mettlar, even before he was born, that, in his own person, he mighlt be an evidence to confound the sceptics, and build up Zion. This boy, accord.' ing to all accounts, was as graceless a young scamp as ever kept clear of t e gallows. He ran away to -sea while still a boy, and was believed to be dead, as he was never heard' of till after this deed had been found by Mr. Mettlar.'r "Perhaps he was dug up-on purpose for the occasion," suggested Joe. -"When Seth found the deed, and learned that the Gomery Estate was held wrongfully and tortuously, and that it right- fully belonged to the heirs of Gault, if any survived, he put an advertisement in the papers; and, the very next day, the man sought landed in Boston, where he had not been before lfor twenty years. Now, you infidels and sceptics may call it a strange coincidence, I call it a special providence, in behalf of that good man whom this stranger here has been abusing so shamefully." The members. of the General Court looked upon Joe as a monster; but Joe, who had turned to face the ,defender of Seth's charnacter, looked the very picture of innocence, and his merry eye shone brighter than ever. "Wliat a wretch I am!" he said,; "but go on with your story."  "It was only a day or two after, the advertisement had been in the papers, when tLe man so long missing turned up. He was a rough sailor, and a good deal inthxicted; and used lannguage so profane, that Brother Mettlar was greatly shocked. He could not reconcile it with his conscience to ? inform so base a character that there was a large property belonging to him that he might possibly recover and which he knew would be spent in sin and riotous living. so/he got him, to sign a quit-claim deed to this tract, which was duly witnessed by two law-students in an adjoining office, one of whom died of consumption the same season, and the other was afterwards a principal witness in the case. For this, Seth paid the- poor wretch one hundred dollars. But after the man was gone, he has since told me, he was greatly ex- ercised in mind, lest his own selfish interest or his 6dwn- car. nal heart was tempting him to some great sin; and he was on the point of following him, when he bethought himself that he would wait for a sign from the Lord. So he took a 9\ S 9    ' - r   ,   *  ,   102      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: candle, and set it in the window; and, taking out his watch, llhis scrupulous, -God-fearing man said to himself, 'I will wait five minutes; and if, in that time, the light is not blown out, I will go after the man, ask -him to give me up: the money, and destroy the deed." He waited for five minutes; and, though he moved the candle twice (once to the window- and once to near theI door), it was not blown out; and ac- cordingly he set forth to find the man. Now, had the Lord intended he should find him, and destroy the deed, of course he would have directed'his steps to where he was. YBut, though he walked up and dewn through several streets, he saw nothing of him; and when convinced by this token that the Lord did not intend for him to meet him, but that be should -retain the deed to himself, he returned to his office, and, falling-on his knees, returned thanks to God for the divine light that had been vouchsafed to him under these,.trying circumstances. Then he made an oath /to de- vote his life to piety and virtue, and on bended knees prom- ised, that, if this property ever came into his hands, he would devote it to charitable and pious purposes.. After that his mind was at rest; for his duty was clear. A few days after, an unknown man was killed in a low house on the T; and Seth, and one of the witnesses of the deed, identified him as the poor sailor, who, like Esau, had, for a mess of pottage, given up his birthright."       X "But what became of that other lawyer mani who thought he owned the property,--Gomery, or Montgomery? Did he give it -up without resistance? I thought that undis- turbed possession in this country, for a great numbpr of years, of itself created a title." " I will explain all about that. The man Gomery stood a terrible lawsuitit He called Mr. Mettlar all sorts of hard natnes, and said he was a swindler, a forgel; and a hypocrite3 but it did nriot help him any, for the Rev. Dr. Bloggett, at whose church he worshipped, sent a letter to the court, signed by all the deacons and leading church-members, stating ;that Sethl was a most exemplary and truthful man, and one oitthe pillars of the church. When this letter was read in the court, it brought tears into Seth's eyes, he was so affected. He had- been grossly abused, during the trial, by Gomery and his counsel; and they even had the wickedness to accuse- Seth of forgery, and to deny that he had ever seen the man '.      ,    A       i-     1; .   A FAMLY. HSTORY.        10l Gault, whose signature was witnessed- by the young law. students.' "What did they say about it? Didn't they contradict 'each other in this great conspiracy? asked Joe. Deacon Giles turned, a look of mingled scorn and disgust on the doubter, and wenton:;- ( Unfortunately, one of the witnesses had died before the I uit was commenced; but the other gave full and cleair evi- dence: and, though the other side brought the charge of perjury against him, they could not sustain it; and the ver- dict],of the jury, in Seth's favor, completely vindicated his chaiacter. But the conduct of Seth after the trial was the most characteristic and forgiving; and had not Gomery been an unbeliever, and 'little better than one of the wicked'" - "Don't profane Shakspeare by such a tongue as yours," said Joe.        ; '"I say, if this Gomery had not been an austere man and an unbeliever, he would have seen the hand of the Lord in this affliction  '            - "The Devil's own fingers!" broke in Joe. "He would have seen the hand of the Lord in this judge ment, and submitted without a murmur. But his hard and rebellious h'eart was at enmity against God, and he refused to abide by the. verdict, and appealed; and, as if to punish him for his stubbornness, the verdict was set aside, and, at the next trial, he lost' it again; and after two more- trials, extending, in all, through a period of four years, and spend- ing a vast amount of money, he finally lost it before the Su- preme Court. "After the case was finally closed, and there was po fur- ther appeal, the friends of Seth thought it due to himself that he should vindicate This character by bringing a suit for libel against Gomery.'- He was very reluctant to; do it, as he is of that meekness and. gentle character, that he forgives his enemies until seventy times seven. But, as he was a lead- ing member of the church, it was considered due to it that he should not let his own personal feeling stand in the way of the interests of Zion. The suit was brought; and Seth got a heavy verdict for damaues. This completely ruined the proud squire; for he was left without a dollar in the world. But he was still as rebellious and proud as ever, snd refu sed to seethat all his troubles were a judgment on hin. for his wickedness."   '104      OM- EY oTP MONTGOMERY: \, "aIDid he leave the place- after that?" aked Joe. "No: though his children (the most pr all of them) were married off, and were rich people, and offered him a home in New York or PlMiladelphia,he said he never would give rest tO the sole of his foot till he got his own back, and had the pleasure of kicking that forger and scoundrel, Mettlar, into the street. The idea! Brother Mettlar a forger and seoun- drel! "But this wicked, worldly man, Gomery, had still greater punishment reserved for him by An ;avenging Providence. The people to whom he had sold land came lpon him for their purchase-money, and that, too, when he had nothing; and, because he could not pay them, he could not walk the streets without being assailed by them, and called a swin- dler and a cheat. On the other hand, the new owner of the property was very liberal with those who had bought of ' omery, and compromised with them on very liberal terms, eceiving a small sum in cash, and taking notes to be paid at such time as should be convenient. But the folks said that the hardest blow to Gomery and Iis family was not the loss of his property, or the respect of the people. It was this: His youngest son, who was said to be a sort of dreamer, had been engaged for a long time to a young woman in the place, and she jilted him to malry Seth. She was mnarried ab'out a year ago; and she is now down at Nahbant to get the benefit of the sea-air, as her health is very feeble, which elauses ler loving and affectionate liusband great anxiety. A year and ;a half ago, she was up here; and it was the unanimous opin- ion that she was the handsomest woman that ever walked the streets of Boston. Seth is, indeed, a most fortunate man. His life is a bright example to the young, as it shows the rewards of virtues and that a man whose thpughts are on spiritual things may yet prosper in worldly things. I trust that this man here will now acknowledge that he has; done great injustice to a most worthy man, and will apolo- gize to-him when he slall meet him again. I dare-say he will ask forgiveness for you on- his knees this night before he sleeps." Joe sat silent for aa few moments, and then said, "I will certainly apologize when I see him." :- ; That is right, that is- right!" said Deacon Giles, approach- ing as if to take his hand and offer forgiveness.    A FAMLY HSTORY.        105 "But," he continuedi rising from his chair, "my apology will have a sting in it. I tell you all, he is a villain of the darkest dye; and as to this man who has, been defending E and bepraising him, I can hardly tell whether he is more a knave or a fool! I think he is a good deal of both! Does he think us such shallow-pated dolts as not to see that his own narrative proves his friend Seth, as he calls him, a vil- lanous, lying hypocrite? I 'tell you he is so r "He is capa- ble of any crime, and has already committed enough to send him to State Prison; and that is where his infamous career Wvill at last bring up. But I have no breath to waste on such a knave as he is, or such'a canting fool as his defender here. Gtood-evening, gentlemen! Tell that deep-scheming villain for me, that the day of judgment is at hand; for that there is a just God that rules in the earth, not to be appeaserd by a moiety of a stolen fortune."' With this outhreak, Joe left the room, slamming the door after him, and leaving the assembled guests staring wildly at each other. He retired to his own room ;. and the stage- coach- that left the City Tavern at four o'clock the next morning bore him!way as passenger in- the direction of Montgomery. * ,;    106      . GOMNERY OF MONTGOM'ERY: j . /  ,   ,  CHAPTE    R  VII. "But grant the virtues of a temperate prime, Blest with an age exempt from scorn or crime; An age that melts with unperceived decay, ' And glides with modest innocence away; Whose peaceful day benevolence endears, Whose night congratulating conscience cheers, The general favorite as the general friend: Such age there is; and who shall wish its end?"--DR. JOHNSON. A- GREAT change has taken place in the village of Mont- gomery. It is now a thriving manufacturing town; and not only that, but the social relations of some of our best friends, whose acquaintance we made a long time ago, have, as good, credulous Deacon Giles has already informed us, been mate- rially changed. Gomery of Montgomery is no longer the great man of the place. His property is all gone; and though he continues to live in the old house at the Pivot, which he had built for his young bride many years before, it was no longer his house. That, together with the old house on the hill in which hle -had been born, had fallen with the rest of the property into the possession of the conscientious Seth Mettlar. When the people of Montgomery, first learned that the title of Squire Gomery to the original Gault or Goniery tract was called in question, there was great excitement through- out the village and adjoining country.  Most' of the vil- lage was located on this tract: the water-power was included- in it, and all the valuable factories, shops, and stores were located, on it. The first outhreak of expression was, that solme great fraud and swindle was contemplated. "What!" said every one, "Las not Freeborn Gonlery lived on this tract, man and boy, for more than fifty years? and was not his father before himr one of the first settlers in this part of the country? and have we not held undisputed possession of our homes, some of us, for thirty or forty years? and who can now disturb us?  When the report first started, it hap-:   -A FAMLY. HSTORY,        107 pened that Gomery of Montgomery and his wife were not . at home. They had gone on a visit to their children in New York and Philadelphia, and had been absent about six weeks, and were daily expected, when this rumor first got X about. 1Hence there- was intense anxiety for their return; for, no matter how absurd or ridiculous a bad rumor may be, it nevertheless Ilas tihe power to annoy and disturb. It was not, long that the anxious people had to wait for their return. Only three days after the report was first put in circulation, the family carriage of -the squire was seen to drive throlugh the village just at dusk; and, but for the ever- officious little Diller, it would have passed directly through to the Pivot. His tongue had been running on the subject for the past three days; and, when he saw the familiar car- riage of the squire pass within thirty feet of his door, he could not refirain' from dalling out for him to stop. "Halloo there, Square Gomery! is that you?  Stop a minute! ," The carriage-stopped; and the squire put out his head, and said, "iHow are you, Mr. Diller? I am glad to see you; but Mrs. Gomery and myself are both very tired, and want to get hbomne.  "It is all a lie, - it is all lie! I told 'em it was all a lie, and all a trick of some of them thieving Boston lawyers!" said Diller, with his usual respect to what his interlocutor was saying. "Wbhat's this? what's this?" said the lawyer, suspecting from Diller's manner that some catastrophe had happened during his absence. , "Well, I told 'em that there was nothing in it: but the dod- blasted: fools rwould keep on talkin' about it, though I told 'em to do as I did, and hold their tongues; for it would all be cleared up as straight as the last kink in a pig's tail when you come back."  "Do tell me what you are talking about, ol I may as well A move along," said the lawyer, idrawing up his reins, and -chir-: ruping to his horses to start. I'll tell 'erm it's all a lie, then, and they needn't be skeered about losin' their property; and it's jist as I told 'em bee fore; and"- "What is :ll this about*?" said Gormery to our old acquaint- ance Criaig, who .with. several others, when they saw the ,j -        s9   I 108      GOMERY ,OP MONTGOMERY : Gormery carriage standing in the -street, could not resist approaching to learn the lawyer's opinion on the startling report that had reached the village since he had left it. 3  "( What is your opinion about, it, square?" said Craig. ':My opinion about what? Do you want to drive me crazy? What has happened? What are you talking about?" ;"There, there! it is just as I said. I told you the squtare would nmake it all right," said Diller. "Tell me, in mercy's name, Mr. Craig, what all this means!" "What, you haven't heard the report that is going about?" "No, not a word! I am just now on my way home firom New-York; and here I am met by Diller, so excited, that he can only buzz like a bumble-bee." ",Well, the story is that your title to all this property about here was never good for any thing; that, at the time it was bought by your father, it belonged to another man; and that all of us who hold un/der you or your father have no more title than you have." "Why, who lias been setting you by the ears with such nonsense as that?" "I don't know how the story has got abroad; but it goes that the land was bought by somebody else before your father, and his heirs have found the deed, and we all of us must giye up all our property, and, besides that, pay damage for keep- ing it out of the rightful owner's possession for so nmany years." ?    -- "Well, if that is your story, I can set your minds at rest very easily. It don't matter now who owned this property before - my father did, or whether he bought fi'omn the rigt1, owner or not. The law is, that twenty years' undisputed pos- session makes'a perfect title; and as it is now nearly sixty years since my father bought this tract, known as the Gault Tract, and as no one has ever question ed his title before, it it clear that this story has no sort of just foundation. Your titles -are as good as law can make themn; and you can all rest easy on that score. So, now, good-evening; for I want to get homne, as we are both very tired." With this he whilped up his tired horses; an'd the crowd that had gathered round, including several women who had come up to the other side of the carriage to exchange news, and gossip with Mrs. Gom- ery, were left standing in the road to discuss the opinion that had. just been delivered by the respected autocrat of,-the. town.    A   PATr t RISTOR.    , .  109 A bad rumor is a bad thing; and though Freeborn Gomery" could not imagine any contingency in which the one he ha just heard could have the least foundation, yet his thoughts were disarranged by it; and he did not approach his house with the same calm satisfaction and pleasant reveries that he had been indulging in for hours before. The journey home- wards of this worthjyouple had been, up to this point, a season of perpetual delight. That poet was a spooney, in spite of his name and fame, who said,- "There's nothing half so sweet in life Acs love's young dream." Had he said there's nothing sweet having so much bitter mixed with it, I would not have disputed him; but when he compares the fitful pleasure, the feverish anxiety, the jealous fears, of young love, with the calm enjoyment, the sweet con- tent, and the retrospective, present, and prospective realiza- tion of that love, cemented by years of trial,- of affection, and experience, and gives the preference to the formel, he pioves himself to be very young, or an incorrigible booby. During this long drive homeward, Freeborn Gomery and his wife had talked over the events of their lives, the inci- dents of the childhood of their children,'the peculiarities of each, theirprlesent condition and prospects-; and the sum total of it all was, that they were content. They could see little in the past to regret, and nothing to hope for in the future that they did not anticipate. They nwere proud and happy in their  children; and each felt grateful to the other for the' faithful discharge of duties towa'rds them. They were happy, too, in the love and esteem of their neighbors, both far and near, in and around Montgomnery, and, as they drew near the place, they thought of the happy greeting they-would receive firom them, and of the quiet social enjoyment that would be theirs in the rustic intercourse with their old and well-tried firiends. Thoughts of this kind: had been passing throtigh the minds of the two but a short time before they approaclied the village; and, in a half-musing tone, Gomery repeated to himself these lines, so expressive of deep gratitude to the divine Giver:-- "Ten thousand, thousand precious gifts My' daily thanks employ; Nor is the least a cheerful heart, 'That tastes these gifts with joy." VoL. ,n.     10 Q     , o     "O-      GOMERY 'OF MONTGOMRY: : But, of all the blessings which they prized and loved, they Y hoped most from the son, who now, though a young man, had never yet left, but for the short period of his college-termns, the parental roof. In him there was something so unworldly, ' so Shelley-like, so individual, that he had always been to them a sort of superior being; and though his'promise to the rest of the world ,was feeble, and his worldly wisdom so scant as to make his simplicity a by-word, it seemed to them that he saw even with a finer eye, and a more comnprehensive vision, than other men. What wSould come of all these peculiarities they could not foresee; but, in his broad perception and large charity, they saw that which ever made their hearts glad. And yet, notwithstanding all the blessings they enjoyed, the evil rumor gave them an uneasy feeling, and somewhat damped the joy they felt as they ascended the long incline from the village to the Pivot. But, as they neared the house, they saw, through the dusk, a figure standing beside the road. "Frebornf said Mrs. Gomery, "there is Walter, and on the very spot where he stood when he came to meet us to inquire after Old Joe." Though none- saw them, yet I warrant you there were tears standing in two pair of eyes at this thought. When the morning broke, and Freeborn Gomery opened his eyes iri his own long-fiamiliar bed-room, he felt a thrill of rest, if such a thing there be, pass through his firame; and he thought, that, however pleasant it was to travel abroad, staying at home was vastly better. But this sense of satis- faction was soon. succeeded by a feeling that something had occurred the night before that somehow jarred the harmony. of his life. -What it was, he could not at first remember; but that the strings of his nature had been roughly touched was evident from the discordant vibrrpions that still faintly swept through his harmonized and contented beingi It was some time before the cause. of this occurred to him: but ere long, in thinking of the village and of what he had to do there that day, the incidents of the night before were re- called to his mind, and-the excited figure of little Diller was before him; and this set him into such a fit of laughing, that he was compelled to forego his " forty morning winks." The middle of the forenoon, however, found the squire at his .offie; though: it was not years since writ, warrant, or   A FAMLY HSTORY.,  summons had passed through its doors ,in search, of witness or delinquelt. It had been occupied more or less, during the past'year or two, by Walter, where it was said he was study- ing law. But,ithough many had come to him to ask advice or engage counsel, he had never been solicited to take charge of a case., He had heard of the famous case of Craig vs. Cook and invariably alluded to it when a client sought his advice. He always'advised against litigation; and on several occa- , sions- when the amount at issue was small, he offered to make up the difference from his own -pocket. This offer having;  been accepted on a certain occasion by a person weho it was supposed had threatened a suit for this purpose, so great a commotion was caused in the village, that the man was finally compelled by the public sentiment to, sell his property, and emigrate to a distant town. Hence the, law-office, over the door of which could still be seen, in letters scarcely legi- ble, "Freeborn Gomery, Attorney-at-Law," was never visit- ed by litigants or litigious persons: on the contrary, such people always passed by with a sneaking, stealthy tread, with a feeling akin to that of a debtor who fears a hail as he passes a creditor's house. [ But this morning, however,-as it was known that theold squire had returned, a large number of people called in dur- ing the forenoon to give him a wel-come back, and feel the  , warmn grasp of his honest hand, There was also a strong desire to hear from his own lips the assurancea that the late rumors affecting the tenure of property in Montgomery could not have hny real founidation. This he gave without hesita- tion, assuring them that their long possession, without dispute or question, was sufficient to-perfect a title, however defective originally; that the law on that point was as clearly defined and well established as the natural right of every man to eat the bread his own hlands had earned, and in practice was much more uniformly respected.   The village people were also eager to hear what the squire had to say of the strange and interestingthings he! had seen in the great cities; and; wele equally anxious to tell him of what had transpired, dulring his (absence, in his own neighborhood. "Silas Barton has sold his farm," said Ebenezer Otis in the course of the conversation; " and everybody, I believe, is in hopes he is going to move away." O1Sol I his farm! Who has bought it?" asked the squire. q    "2      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: "It is that tall man, with silver-bowed spectacles, who -Was here a year or two ago: Mettlar, or Meddler, I think his name is." "Little cause, then, I think you have to rejoice at the change." "Why, squared! how is that? I thought Barton had given you a sight of trouble." "So he has. He has been the greatest nuisance this town ever knew, and is the only man in these parts I ever had a Jlawsuit with on my own account; and with him I have had at least five or six. The first was near thirty years ago, soon after I sold him his land, when he tried to cheat me out of half the purchase-money. Then we had another dispute afterwards about boundaries, arid then another about fences, and then about the right of way through my upper lot to the river; and here, for the last year and a haltf he has been threatening to bring a new suit on that score, though at the last trial he had not a peg to hang his case on: and the judge said, in his charge to the jury, that it was so. unjustifiable a suit, that an action for malicious prosecution would doubtless lie againist him; and the jury found against him without leaving their seats."        ..  "'Well, you are not the only man that has been worried by him," said Ebenezer; "and how it is he has been able to keep his head above water so long, and pay such -law ex- penses, I don't understand." "He, seems," said Ben Bradish, an old sea-captain, who had, a few years before, finally cast his anchor in Mont- gomery, and was- living at his ease on a small farm half a ile from the village,--"he 'se,ems to take to law like dolphins a ship's Awake, and never can be at rest in smooth water. e likes the iexcitement of a lawsuit, as a petrel likes a storm of wind and thunder and lightning. Whenever I find he has any hand in any thing that I am concerned in, I always take in sail, and scud under bare poles for other waters." Well, well," said the squire, "he is not here; and let us , not talk of folks behind their backs. He will probably now leave' the place; and I am sure I would sooner do him a' favor than an injury."                i After thus evil report in regard to tenure had been so effect- ually killed by the authoritative dictum of Gomery of Mont- gomery, every thing in the village seemed to move along with   A FAMLY HSTOitY.     1.   3  that industrious monotony that, tells: of peace and prosperity. Little Diller, now getting old, and, if possible, more garrulous than ever, 'continued to surprise his guests with all sorts of il'clevant gossip; while; his wife,' good woman, with specta- cles askew, entertained them with the good cheer that had rendered the Eagle famous for many years. Craig and Cook had never got at loggerheads again after the,famous case, a full account of which was given in the earlier parts of. this history. They had ever since been as regular attendants at, church as Elder Millson himself; and, as (so Craig once expressed it) they were both of a "musical persuasion," they always sang from the same hymn-book. TholnasjHomer was now h man prematurely broken in health' and spirits. Rheumatism had impaired- the one, and a thankless, graceless child the other. Young Obededom Homer wag never amia- ble. He was qnuarrelsome, selfish, and domineering when a I child; and, during the long confinement succeeding the acci- dent that made him a cripple for life, his bad qualities in- creased upon him. He was the autocrat of the house, and received every attention, without thanks and as a right, Even the attentions of Walter Gomery, in searching the fields for berries or in bringing him his toys and goodies, never could draw firom him an expression of gratitude: on the contrary, he would inquire what new presents Theron and Wirtimir had lately had given to them, and would beg Walter to bring them to him. But if he did not do that, ; either from the disinclination of his brothers to part 'with their juvenile riches, or from an idea that he ought not to ask others to make sacrifices for so ungrateful an invalid, he was sure to be rated and abused as a mean, stingy sneak. Bit, as Obededom was a great sufferer from his wounded leg, Walter attributed much of his unkindness to that cause. ,^.  This unfortunate limb had been so slattered, that fi agfients  \ of bone continued to exfoliate, and work through the flesh for a year and a half after the accident; and the pains were constant, and often excruciating. Such a trial would doubt- less hlave affected for the worse a temper, less morose than Obededom'is; but him it made as savage as a young bear With a sore head. He was the absolute tyrant of the house; and more than half his time was given up by his father to attend to his wants and caprices. ' To him only he did not snarl and snap; but for his mother and sister he never had a- 10*   "4      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: gentle word. It was like arrows in the heart of Walter when he saw the kind attentions of the. gentle Hester so rudely repulsed, that she would shrink away' to hide her tears; but when, as Obededom began to recover from his wound, he saw that his sister had found a recipient for that love which he had always rejected, he hated Walter with all the ' intenseness of his vindictive, selfish, and arrogant n'ature. And yet the loves of these two children throve and strength- ened on persecution. They loved as chiIdren; and theixl dream of future happiness was rather of some place where there should be no big ugly brother to torment them, than of any fancy!castle or isle such as young lovers picture to them; selves. They had, as children, been thrown together at a time when the childish affections of Hester, scorned and repulsed by her brother, longed for recognition and sympathy. The/ kindness of Walter had come like a healing balm; and the tender regard, he evinced for her as a neglected child had caused her to turn to him as her friend and protector. Thus had their love begun, and it had gone on increasing with' years. It contained no episodes of flirtings and jealousies, 1 of quarrels and reconciliations. The two seemed to regard themselves as intended for each other; and their interests and lives so blended together, that contention, doubt, or distrust, were impossible. So they grew up children; and, at the time to which thisj history has arrived, the good gossips were be- ginning to speculate on the time when the marriage of Wal- ter Gpmery and Hester Homer would come off. It was blit a few days after the return of Gomery and his wife that Seth Mettlar again appeared in town, and took up his lodgings at the Eagle. He appealed more deeply engaged than before in searching out the facts in regard to the early annals of the town, and in gathering materials for his history. Though Montgomery was the largest town within forty miles, it was not the shire-town, owing to its being situated in a corner of. the county. The shire-town  was Chesterville, some twenty miles-to the north-east. After Seth had been a few da, in the village, he said he had a little business in Chestervi le, and that he must go over and attend to it. He according y hired Diller's horse and wagon; and givin,. no- tice, that, if anybody had any deeds or other instruments that  they would like to have recorded, h- would cheerfully attend to them, he set out, and did not ret rn till the evening of the- f6urth day afterwards. t . '      '., ' * ' . ,- ' ':   A FAMLY HSTOPY        115; Nobody knew how or why it was, but everybody felt that the presence of Seth Mettlar in Montgomery Village boded no good. He was liberal and free with his money, however, and endeavored to ingratiate himself into thee favor and con- fidence of the people. Though he had bought Silas Barton's farm, he made no preparations to occupy it, but, op the con- trary, leased it, to the disgust of the town generally, to its former owner, for the term of three years, at little more than a nominal rent. He soon left the place, however; and the only regret people felt was that he had ever been there. But, about a month after, it appeared that he had not been there without an ob- ject. The first intimation that any one had of whait was his real purpose was contained in a notice to the adverse patty, which the deputy sheriff of the county left at the Pivot one day when the squire was; away from home. This notice in- formed him that an action had been commenced for trespass in-closing up the road leading through r a certain lot; and it appeared this was to be a new trial of the last case he had had with Silas Barton, - only in this case the name of Seth Mettlar appeared as plaintiff instead of the former litigant. The squire was annoyed at this; for -he knew it would cause much trouble, vexation, and expense to defend his rights, though he iever had the first thought or suspicion that the result would not be the same as in the last trial concerning the same asserted right of Way. But more rumors of unknown origin began to circulate in town; and people began to suspect there was more truth in the former ones than the squire had acknowledged or believed; . 'These all soon assumed a tangible and coherent shape when a Boston paper found its way to Dillers Tavern, containing a longhand minute account of an important discovery that had recently been made, showing that the title to the land on which stood one of the most thriving villages in the interior 'had recently been discovered to be in a person supposed to be dead; that' it had been purchased by a most respectable , citizen of Boston, a member of the bar; and that an action 'had already been commenced that would involve the title of most of the town, as well as the enormous property held' by the person who had not only defrauded and kept the rightful owner out of his own for many years, but had assumed to sell lands of great value to which he had no title. - , -   s . C     -  "6      0ORYT OP MONTGOME=RY: This statement in the paper was so minute in its details, and so favorable to the plaintiff in the suit, as to leave no doubt that the information had been derived from him, if it had- not been written by his own hand. But, whether that were so or not, Gomery of Montgomery saw, as soon as Ihe had read the article, that he would have an antagonist in the suit to deall with very different and much more formidable than the weak and que-rulous Silas Barton. The people of the village rushed to see him, and to ask what it all meant. He could only tell them that ,he was as much in the dark as they were. He could not imagine any contingency in wlhicl their titles could be affected; and ass ired them, if there ever had been any laches, that it had been from no fault of -his, but that, for his part, he believed it was an attetnpt to extort black-mail, or was a part of some othr scheme to get money by fraad. In this uneasy condition, the people were obliged to wait till the' trial came on., Efforts were made to learn what the- plan of assault was to be by some of the tradesmen who bought their goods in Boston, and Who-made it their business to call on Seth, and question him about his lawsuit with Gomery. But Seth, like a prudent general, concealed his 'plann of attack; and the people were left to surmnise on what weak point of Gomery's title he would make his assault. The case Woduld come on for trial at the next term of the District .Court; and, unit-il thern nothing was thought of or talked of in Montgomery but the great lawsuit. The history of this village seerns to have been marked by great events. First, there was the'" great baby ball," then the," great drunk," and now they were on thd eve of a " great lawsuit." Gomery of Montgomery was far firom easy in his mind about the result; but he could not find a defect or flaw in his own title. Tile original deed given by Col. Scranton to his father more than fifty years ago was in his possession, and nobody had ever questioned its form or validity; and, even if it had been faulty at first, long use had made complete what might have- been originally defective.   A PFAMTT Y MSTOAT1Oy,       117 CHAPTER     VIII;. - 'aNo common object to our sight displays, But what with pleasure Heaven itself surveys,- A brave man 8truggling with the. storm of Fate, And greatly falling with a falling State."-PFoPE. AT the time the great suit of Mettla r versus Gomery was commenced, it had been many years since the old squire had appeared in court. Even in cases in which hea,.was a party, he would employ some younger member of th6 bar to attend to them., But, in this instance, he had a misgiving that it was too important to trust to stranger hands; and therefore he prepared to defend the case. As yet, however, he was unaware of any new facts or evidence that the present plaintiff had over his predecessor, and therlefore could only appear with the same original deed from Scranton to his father; and the same witnesses that had testified in tihe :lst suit, when Silas Barton was plaintiff. Armed with these, he went over to Chesterville to be prepared when the case should come on. Seth was there before him; and he had brought with him 'one of the most eminent Boston lawyeis, whose fee, Squire Gomery was well aware, would be five times the amonnt involved in this suit. It was evident from,tliis that it was to be only a .test suit, and that, as the Boston papers had said, the question of title to his whole Montgomery property was to be tried. The case had created much-excitement, and grea t interest was felt to learn the issue; and a great multitude of people had gathered in Chesterville, all curious and eager to know the result. By consent of counsel, other cases on the dock- et, having precedence of this one, were passed 'over; and Mettlar vs. Gornery came on for trial the second day of -the term. The court-room- was crowded, and the curiosity of th0  t   "8     GOIER'Y OF- MONTGOMERY: spectators was about equally divided between Gomery and Mettlar. The appearance of the former was imposing. His form was yet erect as ever, though his hair was fast turning -gray; and his more intimate acquaintances thought that he did not have, on this occasion, that cheerful, contented, reliant expression of countenance that he was wont to wear. But he had nothing of the nervous, anxious, twitching look of Seth Mettlar, who, having entered before Gomery, seemed to feel confused and guilty under the gaze of the multitude. He had taken his seat within the bar by the s!de of his Boston- counsel, and was trying to avoid the gaze of the crowd by turning to and whispering in the ear of his com- panion. But, when the, tall form and broad shoulders of Gomery of Montgomery was seen making its way through the crowd that fell back for him to approach, all eyes were turned to himp; and Seth felt a sense of relief that they were withdrawn from himself. The old man took his seat, and cast his eyes} about the room; then he looked at the judge, -a man as old as himself--with whom in former years, and before he became judge, he had many sharp contests in that very forum; all of which had left, however, in the mind of each, the deepest respect for the other. His eyes next fell upon the Boston lawyeri-- Mr. Dextrous, - of whose great success as an advocate and pleader he had heard much, though he had never seen him before. Then his eyes fell  upon Seth, who, under their-gaze, could no longer turn; away; but with a cringing, guilty look, he cast such a piteous,. abject appeal on Gomery, as seemed to say, "Don't read aloud my villanies to mhe people." At a glance, Gomery read the thoughts of his antagonist, and saw conscious guilt in his every look. He kept his eyes fixed onl him for about three minutes, as if reading the very record of his crimes; then, with a smile more of pity than of scorn, he said to himself, though loud enough to be heard by several, including Seth, "The fool! Does he think there is no God in the earth?"At this moment thelisheriff called out, "Silence in the court!" though for the last few minutes you could have heard the ticking of the court-room - clock. The judge announced the business for -the davy; and the clerk read the complaint in the usual sing-song way, so that no one under- stood from the reading a word of what it meant. Gomery, however, had been served with- a copy, and found it to be   A FAMLY HSTORY.        119 an exact duplicate, excepting the date and the name of the plaintiff, of the one he had received some years before, when Silas Barton had sought redress of injuries. Hence he could judge nothing, as yet, what was to be the mode of -attack.      ; Seth had employed not only the eminent Mr. Dextrous of Boston to manage his case, but a young limb of the law living at the county seat, named Farley, had also been. en- gaged as junior counsel to open the case and do the office drudgery. To be retained as counsel with so eminent a jurist as Mr. Dextrous, and in a case so -important as this, was regarded as a rare honor for so young a lawyer; and he had prepared himself, with the assistance of Seth, to justify the choice of his patron., He began by paying a high tribute of respect to Gomelry. of Montgomery, who was, as all ad- mitted, a man above suspicion or reproach.; a man whoi had enjoyed more of the respect and confidence of the county. in which lie lived than any man who had ever resided in it; one whose integrity and benevolence were so well known, that there was reason to fear that that bulwark of justice, the trial by jury, was sometimes impotent against him. His life had been so marked by honesty and fair-dealing, that many people thought all who differed from him must be in the wrong. Yet the best were liable to err; and if the evidence should show, that, in this case, the law was against this man, - so honored, that it was only under a high sense of duty that he appeared as counsel against him, - then he was convinded that a jury of men so honest and respectable as those before him would not let their feelings outweigh their judgment, but would give a verdict in accordance with their oath to respect the law and the facts. The plaintiff, though less known to themb, was a no less worthy citizen than the defend- ant. To understand the merits of his case, it would be neces- bary to revert to the early history of the town, and to examine into the original titles by which the property in dispute was held. In the first place, it would appear that the tract of land on which the town was situate had been granted .by the Colonial Government, years before the Revolutionary War, to Jotham Scranton, from whom it was inherited by his son, Col. 'Richard Scranton, Ylho, it would appear, from some un- explained reason, had deeded the property in question to two parties. Under these circumstances, only the first one could   '10      OMWRY OF, MO  $TGROMERY:  be valid, unless it cnuld be shown that the former one had been cancelled. This one, which was made in favor of Daiid Gault, would be produced in court. It was dated in the year 1773. The unfortunate fate of David Gault was too well known to need comment or explanation. ' He had been murdered during the war, himself and family; and the places that once knew them knew-them no? more forever. It was believed for a long time that not one of the family had escaped the tomahawk or the rifle. Under this belief, doubtless, Col. Scranton bad resold the same property to Robert Gornery, the father of the honored and respected defendant in this case. But all had been mistaken. There -was a son of Gault, who had gone on a visit to his relatives at a distance, that had not perished with the rest of the family. Unfortunately, when grown up, he had taken to evil courses; and instead of coming forward, and claiming the property that his father had bought and improved (the deed of which was lpreserved to i him, and was the same that would be produced in court), he had run away to sea, and led the life of a roving prodigal. But a life of dissipation and hardship had ruined his health; and after being cast on foreign shores, and living for years among the savages of the Pacific islands (having at one. time given up all hope of ever seeing his native country again), he at, length returned, a miserable old man, width scarce a dollar in his pocket; and, a poor, sick, helpless object of charity, he was first met by the plaintiff in this case. He bad seen the poor man shivering in rags in the streets of Boston; and he had acted, as was his wont, the part of the Good Samaritan. He clothed him in decent raiment, iand took him to a public-house; and to the landlord thereof he- gave, not "two pence," but two dollars, and said, "Whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again I will repay thee." But the man did not long survive; and, feeling his deathl to be drawing near, he sent for his benefactor, and told him who he was,-that his name was Randolpll Gault, the son of David -Gault, who had, with the rest of his fmaily, except himself; been murdered by the British and Incilms in the. time of the Revolutionary War. To corroborate iis state- ment, the sick man drew filom under his pillow a small pack. age, and handed it to the defendant, and requested him to open it. He did so, and found the deed which we shall here present, soiled, yet peret in all its parts. There" said: hbe,   , A  FAMW- HSTORY.      121 V  is all I have got in this world tp repay you for your kind. ness. That land is mine, and I wish to leave it to you. And now, as I feel my end is drawing nigh, I want you to make a deed of it to yourself, and bring it to me, and I will sign it."-"But,"said Mr. Mettlar, the defendant in this case, "perhaps, if I should accept your grateful offer, I might do much injury to innocent persons. This deed is now sixty years old,and more; and many people are doubtless on the property; and, if they were to be dispossessed, it would cause much sufeing.-"It is mine, said the dying ma " 'The n world has been against me all my life: you onlyiave been kind to me. Promise me, now; to claim this property, and possess and  enjoy it" Thus adjured, the plaiff  e. his, word ;and the deed was prepared, and signed by the sidk Sman, in the presence of two competent and reliable witness-. es. The next day, the unfortunate man died; and the plain* tiff, in bringing this actionl is but fulfilling a solemn promise to, the dead; and you, gentlemen  of the jury, must con: sider, that, if you wrong my client, you wrong the dead; and if now, after so long a delay, justice is denied, be not surrpised if to you return the ghosts and troubled spirits that once haunted the vicinity of Gault's Hill! We are solry to say that one of the witnesses has also died. Thus we have the deed of Col. Scranton to Gault the elder, ad of Gault the young- er to the plaintiff. This clealy gives the original title; and the next question is, How far have we forfeited it by non-use.  To complete a   vious, defective, or fraudulent title, qouiet and undisputed possessioni for twenty years is required by the common law.   We shall show that the defendant in this action has  niever :passed twenty consecutive years without having suits in which his titledwas questionedn and bhe was obliged to assert it. The small piece of land now, owned by the defendant, near the village of-Montgomelry, was, as Cili be shown, the subject of, a lawsuit some orty years ago. It changed hands bybeing first mortgaged; and then, from a technical defect, the lmrortgagedid not hold; and, when the deed of Squire Gomery was brought forward, he will himself recollect how it was questioned and disputed as not being genuine, and he was called upon to testify to its authenticity. Then there was another   suit:regarding the sane property some twenty:years or more ago, in which the question af ow nership and title, was , gain ill dispute: and, fve year  VOL. IL    122     GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY:  'ago, Silas Barton, then in possession of the land, brought a- suit for right of way to the river; being, technicallv, Ipecise- ly similar to the case that is now pending. But, as we claim never to have been divested of our title, we stand on a very different footing from what he did. If; now, we can show that the land in question was sold to Gault-sooner than to Gomery, then Gomery's title is void; and if we show that 'we have a good and perfect deed from the only heir of'Gault, and that twenty years' unquestioned possession has neverbeen enjoyed by the Gomerys, father and son, then our case is complete, and we shall expect a verdict in our favor.! When Farley had concluded his opening address, indicat- ing the course that the plaintiff would pulsue, it was clear to the mind of Gomery that the whole proceeding was' a gigan- tic fraud. He did not believe that any deed given by Col. Scranton,- anterior to his, was in existence; and, if there was, ha did not believe it had ever come honestly into the hands. of Seth Mettlar, -certainly not in the manner indicated. He knew, long ago, that the survivor of the Gault Family. was none other than Joe Pumpagin; and that Joe ever had such a deed in his possession he knew was next to impossi- ble. But even if he had, that he would ever assign it over to so transparent a hypocrite as Seth Mettlal; with such an injunction as had been conjured up in justification of theo proceeding, was utterly without the Obounds of belief. The reader will remember under what circumstances the secret of Joe's history bad' been confided to Squire Gomery. It was in such a manner that it could be no evidence in court, even were he at liberty to use it. But it had been confided to him under the strictest pledge of secrecy; and he was, therefore,utterly precluded from using in any way the secret information. By breaking faith with a man whom he had not seen for years, and probably never would see again, he could, very likely, preserve his estate; for he knew very well, that, if he were to get up and relate the story of Joe Pumpagin, as narrated by himself, a dozen years before, one afternoon, at the Pivot, Seth Mettlar and Ihis great Boston lawyer would be driven ignominiously firom the court, and happy would Seth ' be to escape frinom the town without rough handling. But these considerations did not weigh a feather in the mind of Free- born Gomery. He was a man without a conscience; or, if 'he had. one, it never troubled him. Whatever seemed to 'he 1            haee  ee6dt   A PAMTTLy HSTORY;.       2 himn to be right, that he did, without hesitation a6r question. It was in his nature to do so; and hence he had no need of conscience to prick him to a sense ofduty. Joe Pmnpagin, therefobre, with his narrative, was accordingly dismissed from his mind, as having nothing to do with the case. He must make the best defence he could, without alluding to him or his story. The deed of Scranton to Gault was first put in as evi- dence. It was handed to the judge, who adjusted his spec- tacles, and scrutinized it closely; then itwas passed. before the jury, and cameback to the clerk's desk. It looked old, worn, and greasy. Gomery reached forward, took the deed in his hands, and carefilly scrutinized it. Then he took his owin deed, from Scranton to his father, from his pocket, and compared them. He read over the description, or bounda- ries, of the two, and found them the sanme; looked carefully at thesignature; examined the paper on which the two were written; then laid them both on the table, and said, ,No proof of the genuineness of the djed is required: it is ad- mitted."  sThe next evidence put in was a mass of affidavits of vari ous persons in Gloucester, testifying to the fact that they had once known the 'son of David -Gault ,the viotim of Iridian and English cruelty; that his name was R andolph Gault; and two of them testified to his-having been bou ght to the place by  his father to be cured' of a serious wound he had received by a Stal. "That David Gault left a son, who grew up to manhood is also admitted, said Gomery, in a voice loud enough to be heard all over the court-robom.  The admissions of Gomery caused great consternation in the crowd. DManyin the audience held all they owned in the world under a title derived firom  him; and, if his own title was invalid, then whiat co uld theirs be good for? What! says one, "does he intend to surrender us to that snake, without an effort? If he is willing to give up his own plroperty, he might have s olne regard for us, who have  paid him for our land, and not give up without making a fight over it." "My 'pinion," said Silas Barton, who  -always had a sore head, and was snarling and fault-finding at everybreath he de w,-- ' mny 'pinion is, that it is all a:made-up thing between Gomely  of M ontgomery and that Boston lawyer, who bought   124      GOMEBY OF MONTGOMERY:      '- my little, farm for a hundreth part of what it would sell for at this minute. It's all got up 'tween the two to cheat hon- est folks of their property."-"It is, is it?" hissed a stal. wart old man standing close by,- as he turned his eye on the speaker. "That is' my answer to that," said he, as he dealt a tremendous blow at the head of the complaining Barton, who fell like a dead man on the floor. "Silence in court!" cried the judge. "Silence in court!" vociferated 'the sheriff. The order was obeyed by everybody rising up, and each asking his neighbor what it all meant. The prostrate Bar- ton wag picked up and carried out, and was followed by his assailant, who proved to be none other than Cook, the black- smith, whom the reader may remember as once having brought a grievance of his own to Lawyer Gomery for ad- justment. He was an older and a wiser man than then, and, I think, a better one. As soon as they were fairly out in the open air, he said, "Mr. Barton, it was I that knocked you down; and I will do it again, if you say a word agin Square Gom- ery. You are the second man I ever struck in all my life, and, I hope, the last. I profess to be a follower of Christ; and though Gomery'of Montgoimery is not of my fiaith, and, , I believe, is in a fatal error, yet he is as honest a man as God ever made; and anybody that slandeis him is a villain' "' Barton only replied, that the law would settle all, difference between them; and withdrew to bathe his eye, now fast changing its hue; while Cook and the others, who, for the time, had been diverted from the main business, returned to the court-room.    . ' The next link in Seth's chain of title was the deed, which i he alleged he had received from Randolph Gault the day be-  fore he died. This instrument, like the former one, Wpas sub-! mitted to the-judge, and then to the jury. Gomery then took it, and examined and laid it on the' table, saying, loud enough toibe'heard by all, ,That is a frgery! IThe plain- tiffl in, thi case, is; a forger; and, for the credit of-the pro- fession, I am sorry to see that any respectable lawyer should lend himself to a work so nefarious,:so atrociously wicked, 'as this which is now attempted." This outhreak of Gomery caused'a sensation in court; and the low titter of applause "that run through the crowd clearly indicated that the public sentiment was very strong against Mettlar,   A FAMLY HSTORY. - '125 2 The Boston lawyer, who, up to this time, had not opened his lips, here rose, and said, that, with the permission of his honor the judge, he would remark, that he had been most fortunate in being retained as counsel in this case, as hither- to it had been his misfortune to practise among city barba- rians; but now he would have an opportunity to learn not only law, but courtesy. In his practice, he had never known counsel to prejudge and denounce the client of his opponent as infamous; nor had it been customary to exhibit the rare benevolence- of giving gratuitous advice to other members of the bar: and, though it might seem ungrateful in him not to heed such advice, he must still insist- in defending the in- terest of his client; and he was greatly rmistaken if the ver- diet of that intelligent jury did not administer a iebuke to such unjust reflections and cruel calumnies as. had been in- dulged in towards his client, whom he loved as a friend, and honored as a man. It should be borne in mind that Gomery knew absolutely that this pretended deed was a forgery, and that his knowl- edge was of that kind, and obtained under such circum- stances, that he could not or -would not use it; and that, unless Joe Pumpagin should unexpectedly turn up after the manner that indispensable minen arewont to appear in'plays and novels, he would find it impossible to prove the firaud. tIe was convinced that Seth Mettlar was not a man to en- gage in such a scheme without being-very sure of success, He had doubtless prepared his way too well to be, caught tripping; had foreseen the- weak points in his case, and pre- pared to defend them. Unless the validity of this deed could be impeached, it was clear that the law would be against him. 'He therefore called upon the plaintiff to prove, first, that it was ever signed by Randolph Gault; and that, if it was, then to prove his identity with the son of David Gault, to whom the land had first been deeded. In proof of the first proposition, several newspapers were put in as evidence, containing paragraphs alluding to the deathi of'a man about a-year before, named Randolph Gault; then a certificate of a physician who attended ,him, and of the sexton 'who buried -him, were adduced; and afterwards one of the Witnesses who signed the deed came forward) and gave his evildence of what he knew of the case. l   126      LOBmRY OF MONTGOMERY: This was a young law-student named Trevitt, who proved to be i a swift witness; and, if in all respects his testimony was not what was desired, it was surely from no fault of his trainer. The sagacious Seth had foreseen every possible question that might embarrass a witness whose story had been made for him, and he had provided an answer accord- ingly, The youth was sharp, and of natural ready wit, and had been wisely selected for the purpose., To secure his ser- vices, Seth had been obliged to pay him a hundred dollars in advance, and to promise a thousand more when a verdict in his favor was given; and five hundred dollars a year for twenty years afterwards, if bpth should live so long. His story was therefore: clear and consistent throughout, and was to the effect that he and the other witness to the deed  were -both students in the law-office of Messrs. Pike & Alli- born; when one day, as they were alone pouring over Kent and Chitty, the plaintiff entered, having a blank deed- in his hand, and told them he wished they would go with him for anhour, and witness the execution of it in another part of the city. He had a carriage waiting at the door, and told them, if they would go, they could be back in half an hour; and, if they liked, they could stop and get some oysters on their return. As it was near the close of the day, they were pleased with the diversion, and went with him. They were taken to a part of the town where the witness had never been before, and Were shown into a poorly furnished rooin, in which was a low bed. On this was lying an old man, ap- parently very sick, who, as soon as they entered, opened his eyes; and, when the plaintiff approached the bed, He clasped, his hand, and said, "Then you have come back: you wouldn't desert the old man. God bless you in time and eternity for this!" --This is 'the poor man," said the plaintiff, 4who wants to make the deed, and to which I have -brought you to be witnesses." "Did he tell you his name?" asked Gomery. "He did; or rather he told my companion, -the other young man who as led him the question. And he told us a long story of his lif'. Though very weak, he told how that he was born in'the- forest ; and that, when he was a small boy, his father; and mother were both murdered by the Indians, at a time when he was away living with an aunt of his down, in Gloucester. Then he told of his life at sea, M  O     hnh    ol     t-sE   A FPAM:Y HSTORY.        .127 and how he had wandered all over the w rld, being detained on one of the islands in the Pacific Oceaj among the natives for near twenty years, but that he had always kept the deed by him to his fther's property, thinking that, some time, he would come and claim it. He arrived in Boston without a cent of money, and not a friend in the whole world; and 'but forthis good man,' said he, taking plaintiff's hand, 'I should have died in the stieets. All the return I can make to him is to make over to him this deed. Promise me again,' said he, 'to get possession of it, and enjoy it if possible.' The plaintiff begged to be excused; and said, that, were he to do so, it might cause great injury to innocent parties. 'And you won't do it, then?' said the sick man. Then, sink- ing back in his bed, he lay for some time silent and ex- hausted. Soon he began again murmuring to himself, ' Oh the cruelty of man! Years have I hoped to return and claim my own, to rescue my heritage from the spoiler; but none will aid me,--none. I must die; and my curse be upon ye!' 'I accept the gift, with all its responsibilities,' said the plain- tiff. 'I promised it yesterday, but hoped that to-day you would relent, and leave it to me to pursue such a course as might seem just and proper; but I cannot resist a dying man's curse. I accept the gift; but on you, in time and eternity, be the consequences!' --' You will accept it?' said he, rising up again, and clutching the plaintiff's hand. 'Y will, responded Mr. Mettlar. "' And drive the spoilers off?' "' Yes: I have promised?'  "'Will leave no honest means, untried to eject them? will leave no stone unturned to recover that which was my father's, and ought to-day to be mine? Swear it, then.' "' I swear it,' said the plaintiff. "'And you have brought the deed?' "' It is here.' "The man looked at it, and then said, 'Do you on your honor, and to a man about to die, and appear against you, if you speak falsely, before the final Judge,--do you say that this paper, if signed by me, will transfer all my rights in this property to you?' "'I do.' "'And you will do your best to get it?' "' I will.'-   128      GOMERY OF 'MON-TGOMORY-: "'Then give me a pen.'                ' "The plaintiff had seen the necessity of pen and ink, and had brought them with him; and, moving up the table that was in the room to the side of the bed, he placed the open paper uponr it, an'd handed the pen, dipped in ink, to the in- -valid. He could hardly hold himself up to write; but, with my assistance, he was. able to keep himself in position long enough to write his name, RaSndolph GaUlt, as you see it on the deed. He fell back on the bed, and did not speak for some time.! Then he asked the plaintiff if he could owrite something on the back of the deed. "Certainly,' said Mr. Mettlar:' whatever you like. You can revoke it all if you desire to do so.' "'Never,!' said he. 'Give me the pen!' "He was again raised up; and, taking the pen, he turned over the deed, and began writing on the back; but he had only got to the words, 'I, Randolph Gault, son of David G4ault who was murdered by the Indians, declare and'- when the pen dropped from his hands; and he fell back in the bed, and did not recover so as to finish the sentence. I then signed as a witness, and my-friend as a notary; and then the plaintiff, calling in the woman of the house, gave her a ten-dollar bill, and told her to provide every comfort for the sick man. We then left, the plaintiff promising to call again in the morning. The next morning, I went again to see him, in company with Mr. Mettlar; but he had died before we got there."  "Who was this other witness that went with you?" "His name was Kinney.' "You say he was a law-student, and yet a notary-public? X "He was, as he would say himself if he were alive, or as you may learn by, applying at the Secretary of State's office. He was a'poor young man, in bad health, and of excellent character; and his friends got him a commission as notary before he was admitted to the bar. He had all the notarial business of Messrs. Pike & Allibone-; and, with this and the other fees firom the office, he supported himself while getting his profession."         -  . "Did you say he was not living?" "He is not, He died the next spring, of consumption." "And this signature to this deed, -Henry Kinney, is his'?" "I saw it written by his own hand." / . '   A FAMLY HSTOR.       .  129 The comments that were made by the spectators towards tlhe close of the above testimony did not indicate so clearly as did the surprise and astonishment on their faces their conviction that the case was lost; that Gomery of Mont- gomery, and many others, were inevitably ruined.' Under the feeling of depression and disappointment,' manly left the court-room; and some, thinking the verdict otherwise than against Gomery impossible, left for home.  Trevitt's testimony was concluded after a brief cross-ex- amination. "What sort of looking man was this one that signed this deed?" asked Gomery. (He was o emaciated and --broken by sickness and ex- posure, I could judge little of how he might have looked when in health. I can, only recollect one peculiarity. He had a flat nose, as though the bridge might at some time have been broken." This peculiarity of, the broken nose had been learned by Seth in his researches at Gloucester, as will be remembered in the narrative of the landlord of the Massasoit when re- lating the mischievous pranks of: young Dolph in his youth- ful dlays, especially his revenge on Parson Dwight. In the affidavits that were afterwards. obtained by Seth. from the old people of Gloucester, this peculiar feature was described; and the witness, thus instructed on that member, was fully . prepared on all matters of description. During the examination of this witness, Seth had been in such a stated of anxiety, that he could scarcely breathe. The story, all made up from beginning to end by himself, and the youth, hung together writh beautiful consistency in all its parts; but if by any chance a question should be asked for which no answer had been foreseen and provided, and if the witness should contradict himself, get confused, ,or forget his part, then he saw ruin an'd disgrace before him. XButthe youth had learned his lesson well. Sethl had procured a room in a back alley in Boston, which, a year before, -ad been occupied by a dissipated char-woman, who had con- veniently died in season to be out of the way as a witness. This room was hired by Seth; and to it he and his witness resorted frequently to rehearse their parts. Every question that either could imagine had been -raised, and an -answer prepared for it, so as to involve no contradiction. They had !   7 .         -  .,   130      COMEiY OF MO'CTGOJEpRY : even gone so far as to act the phrt several times, Seth taking the character of the sick man. The position of the -bouse and every thinglin it were carefiilly noted; so that, if the case were obstinately contested, and wicked, unbelieving eyes should come to examine the premises, no discrepancy or con- tradiction should be found in the evidence to be given at the trial., It had never been the way with Gomery, when a younger man, and in the full tide of practice, to attempt-to confound' and confuse ,adverse witnesses. He never sought, by cross- questions and ferocious aspect, to bully and frighten a wit- ness with a damaging story to tell, so that he could not speak the truth though he tried. But he rather encouraged them to go on and tell all they knew, relying on his own power to sift it, and make the truth clear to the jury. In this case, the witness Trevitt had told his story clearly, con- cisely, and with every appearance of truth; and Gomery saw by his manner, that, though' in every word he said he was deliberately lying, he was not to be caught in a contra- diction. That the plaintiff had made out a case that must appear unimpeachable to the jury, he was quite well aware; but he hoped by some means to be able to divide the jury, so that they would not agree, and thus, before a second trial, get time to go to Boston, and find evidence to disprove and break'down Trevitt's testimony. This would be a great point gained. But, whether the verdict was fol or against hinm, he was convinced that this would 'not be the last trial. If it were. for hiin, it would be from the partiality and prejudice of the jury in his favor; but -if against him, while he mlight yield as to the right of way over a small tract, he would contest at the next stage of the proceedings that Seth would be compelled to take, in order to benefit by this verdict. Thus the\ whole case would be re-opened, and then he would be better prepared to confound the swift witness. Friom the nature of the case, Gomery had no witnesses. His own deed from Col. Scranton, and the continuous pos- session, constituted his case; and the evidence brought for- ward by Seth of an earlier and better title was such, that he could offer nothing to weaken or destroy it. When the plaintiff had concluded his evidence, therefore, he arose, and said that it would matter little, probably, what the verdict in this case might be, as it was only a suit preliminary to a   A FAIL Y HSTORY.        131 long course of litigation. Not knowing the grounds on which the plaintiff had stood, he hbd not been able to pre- pare for the case as he would - do ii a subsequent trial, and might have asked, for postponement on the ground of sur- prise. But he preferred that the plaintiff should now dis- close his evidences and titles, so that at another time he would be prepared for him. "But there is one thing," said he, " that I wish to say to the jury; and that is, that I know, absolutely, of my own knowledge,jat this whole affair is, on the part of the plaintiff, Seth Mettlar, and his paid wit- ,ness, Henry Trevitt, a monstrous, abominable, deliberate fraud and conspiracy; that the deed purporting to be' signed by Randolph Gault is a forgery:; that the whole story, as given in evidence, of the sick man, the signing of the deed, the dying injunction, is nothing but a series of concocted lies."-  Here he was interrupted by Mr. Dextrous, who claimed the protection of the court for his client, as, the speaker was not a witness, and not sworn, and had no right to give his own evidence or allege his own prejudices as facts. "That is all I have to say on that score," replied Gomery. "That I have said, arid it will stand. The jury have heard it; and the most if not all of them know something- of the character of Freeborn Gomery, better known to thetv, per- haps, as Gomery of Montgom ery.- They know that what I state to be true is true; and that nothing can strengthen, nothing can weaken, a statement inmade by me. I have said what I know to be a facet; and it is for the jury to deny it if they can. I give no clew' to my reasons for the positive assertions I have made; I offer no explanations: I have only said that I know of a certainty, and beyond a shadow of doubt, what I have charged against the plaintiff and his fellow-conspirators."  The argument -of Mr. Dextrous was long and artful. He had carefully observed the jury duin'g the trial, and had' seen that their sympathy was entirely with the defefndant. Therefore he could gain nothing by abusing him:  on the contrary, he must chime in with their-prejudices, and praise him. He did this so cunningly, that A stranger, unacquainted. with the facts, would have thought that he was retained by the defendant to defend and eulogize him. And first he justified, himself in appearing against a man so universally   182      GOMLRY OF MONTGOMERY: 1 I respected. At first, he had been retained before he knew the merits, of the case; and when\ he began to examine it, and found it was a- suit involving the interests not only of a man loved and respected far above what it was the lot of most men to enjoy, but also, through him, seriously affecting a large community, his first impulse was to have nothing more ,to do with it, but tell his client to look elsewhere for an advocate. But he looked farther, and found that there were two sides to the case; that, as would sonetimes hap- pen in this world of crosses, the interests of deserving pac- ties conflicted and, clashed: one or the-other, from no fault of his own, must suffer wrong; and, in such a case, there were but two ways to arrange the difficulty; -one was by a cormpromise, and the other by the Procrustean rule of the law. The first had been refused with scorn and contumely by the defendant; and hence the plaintiff had no resort but to - those courts that deal justice to all alike, respecting not persons nor prejudices. But this was not a case of a grasp- ing unjust man against one honored and just, like the de. fendant. His client was no less honored and respected among his own people than the defendant among his. He was a man, as the evidence had shown, of the finest sense of honor;' of most sublime rectitude; of a conscience sensitive to the call of duty as the needle to the magnet. But of that hereafter. The first thing was to consider the case in its legal aspect; and as it was written in the law, so must the jury give their verdict. The evidence adduced by his client in support of his case was then reviewed by Mr. Dextrous at great length. The chain of title was traced from its original source,-the grant by 'Government to old Jotham Scranton; from whom it de- scended to his son, and was by him sold to Thomas Gault, whose only surviving'heir was Randolph Gault, whose deed to the) plaintiff 'was now in court. The law in regard to undisputed possession for the term of twenty years was then recited, and the records of all the suits, that, from the first, the defendant had had with Silas Barton and other people: / and it was clearly shown that that term had never passed' without the question of title to the Gomery Estate being raised; not, with a view to contest it,-for its -validity had never been doubted before, abut it had come up incidentally, as' one of the points formerly raised in those suits where ethe   A .AMTI Y HmISTORPY..      133 question of title was concerned. This point was made so clear, it was' evident, that, if .Gomery's case depended on the possession, he must inevitably lose it. Dextrous saw in the eye of the only juryman he feared, that, on that point, he- was convinced.- He had observed one man in the juiy-box that all his soft words in praise of Gomery had not moved. ' He saw, early in the trial, that this man was strongly preju- diced against his client; that he smiled and scowled accord- ing as the evidence was favorable or adverse to Gomery. His general appearance, during the time that the evidence was being given, had been anxious and attentive. The ac- cumulating evidence, going to show, that, in all probability,' the title to the Gomery Estate was legally and technically in the plaintiff, disturbed hinm greatly; and Dextrous watched the workings of his countenance with great curiosity,-and no little satisfaction, as he read in his face the, honest man's' regrets that the painful duty would devolve on him of ren- dering a verdict so contrary to his feelings. But, when Gomery got up to address the jury, the anxiety in the face of this man was more distinctly visible than is often seen in that of a criminal when waiting a verdict that, must either bid him go free, or send him to the gallows. And never did the words "Not guilty,' from the foreman of a jury, light up the countenance of a prisoner in the box more suddenly than did the deliberate declaration of Gom- ery, that, on his own knowledge, the whole case of the plaintiff wals based on forgery and fraud, change the aspect of this- concerned juryman. Dextrous had observed the effect of ,this declaration, and read at once that it would take a large amount of sworn testimony to rebut, in that man's mind, the naked word of Gomery of Montgomery. The other jurymen had all, at the commencement of the trial, evinced more or less the same prejudice 'in favor of the defendant as this one. But ,Dextrous had read their- thoughts so well as to see that prejudice had given way be- -fore tact and evidence; and it was only the stubborn, will and striking individuality of the large man with rough fea- tures, who sat in a corner of the jury-box, that he feared. This man we have met before, - many, many years ago. In selecting a jury, objection had been made to every one drawn from the town of Montgomery, on the ground of either  interest or prejudice; but, with all his acuteness, Mr., Dex- VOL. II,    12   134 -       OM ERY OF MONTGOMERY;.  trous had not thought to question jurors from other towns, further than to ask if they had any interest, direct or indi- rect, in the suit. He did not ask any one, if, in his mind, the bare assertion of Freeborn Gomery would outweigh the sworn evidence of a host of other witnesses; and this was the only question that would have reached the case. The man, thus interested in behalf of Goemery was Joel Slocum, whom--the- reader may remember as having been married on the day of the " great baby ball," and taken part in thebfestivities that occurred on that memorable occasion. Twenty-five years and more have passed since, then; and 'instead of the raw, awkward youth of his wedding-day, he is a self-reliant, obstinate, well-to-do man.- He is known as a man of strong sense, but terribly set in his opinions; and, though people adhmit that his opinions in the end prove right, they think he should be less stubborn in adhering to them. But, for all that, they have imperceptibly learned to appreciate the fact, that he only comes to a conclusion after a thorough examination and consideration of the matter in hand; and that conclusion they respect. At the time of his marriage to sweet Kitty Floyd, Joel Slocum was far less strict in religious observances than he afterwarids became. Had he not been so, he had never consented to attend the 'great baby ball." He had been brought up, as was relatedlong ago, in the Calvinistic -faith;  and, at that time, was, in theory, as good a Calvinist as afterwards. But it was two years after this when he made an open profession, and submitted to all the requirements and restrictions that were self-imposed by the earnest, hon- est, respectable, but contracted and slightly bigoted mem- bers who' dictated that creed, and the worldly limitations ' essential to salvation. But, whatever his religious experi- ences, he had never ceased, from the day of his marriage with Kitty Fioyd, to regard Gomery of Montgomery as the man,  above all others of his acquaintances, to be honored and ad- mired. In respect and reverence for Gomery and his wife, he and his wife entirely concurred. The affairs of their marriage, and the incident of the ' great baby ball," were standing topics of conversation all their lives. No English commoner, who had been kicked by a lord, was ever more proud 'of the indig- nity than he was of the courtesy and good-nature of Gomery and his wife at the time of his marriage. And he had kept   A FAMLY HSTORY.        135 up his acquaintance ever since; and, if it ever chanced that Mrs. Gornery came to Tivreruet, she didlynot fail to call on bel whom she never ceased to call ' sweet Iitty Floyd." Some of his church-bretlren, when they heardl Joel enlar- ging so freely on the virtues and merits of Gomery as the perfect man, would question I-is judgment  since, by his own confession, this modern Job was far from the true faith. Joel never attempted to reconcdle these discrepancies, butt said the Lord had his own way of effecting his purposes, and would make it all right in hi-s own good time. He had also another reply, that was more effectual in silencing criticism. He would cite the case of Craig vs. Cook, both of whom were shining lights of his own church, and say,"Who is my neighbor ?" That silenced his accusers; for they could not deny that the unbelieving Samaritan was a better Christian than either tile priest or'the Levite. Thle Boston advocate read the nature of this man, nd saw that he had not made out his case so as to convince him, long aftter it was evidlent that all the rest had made up their minds. /His attention was as fixed as ever; and the keen observer saw, that, on the question of continuous possession, even he was convinced. He did not, leave'that part of his argument, however, for that reason. on the contrary, he alnplified the moore upon it.  Ie assumed that that was the only point on which there could be any doubt; and by dwelling long upon it, eloquently piling up the evidence  and the law, he thought to divert the mind of this obstinate juryman fiom any other difficulties in the case on Which he might be laboring. And' Fith an     eloquent peroration assuming this as the only point for the jury to pass on, and with a glowing tlibute to jurors generally, and this one in particlalar, whose honest, intelligent faces showed they could never be swayed by cunning or prejudice, he confidently intrusted the case to their hands. The charge of the  judge was, however more formidable in the mind of Joel Slocum  than any thing advanced by the oily tonge of Or. Dextrous. He  told the  jury they   must lecile alceorliln R to the law  and the evidence; and, in com- ing to a conclusion, they  should carefully sift that which as  legal and pertinent from their vague impressions and   private belief. :It was an important case, -  the most important ever tried in that county;' and  the interests of many people were  136  .    GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: liable to be affected'by their verdict. Hence they had reason to guard especially against personal prejudice or per- sonal sympathy. Evidence unimpeached, and standing to reason, was to have due weight; and all other was to be, so far as possible, dismissed from their minds. Then review- ing in detail the evidence offered, and reciting the law bear- ing upon it, he badel the jury retire, and consult on their verdict.           ,  - The jury were conducted to the jury-room, and then left to themselves. The judge, the jury, the lawyers, and specta- tors generally, believed that they would soon return. Not so,.however, Mr. Dextrousi he feared the stubborn will of one man, and was convinced that it would require all the influence and persuasion of his fellow-jurors to bring him to assent to their verdict. The time passed away,-- half an hour, three-quarters. It was getting to be dark, and the judge wanted his supper. He ordered the court to be ad- journed for two hours; remarking sotto voce, that, if a jury could hesitate in a case soxclearlas this, they deserved to be locked up till they agreed, and an hour afterwards, as a pun- ishment. Two houls afterwards, the court was re-opened; but, as yet, the jury had made no sign. The judlge ordered the sheriff to inquire if there was no prospect of their agreeing that fiight. The answer was, that they wanted further in- structipns; and the whole body were marched back into their box I                          , The foreman stood up, and said, "The jury, your honor, have all been agreed from the start, e"xcept one man. He persists in regarding the statement of the defendant as evi- dence; and :the instructions now asked for are not to 'convince us, but him, that we are not to regard it as testimony." "What!"' exclaimed the judge, "does any person here consider that the unsworn statement of the party in the suit can weigh against the positive, direct sworn evidence of un- impeached witnesses? It is absurd and preposterous! Such evidence is no evidence at all. It is to be dismissed from your minds as irrelevant; and your duty as honest men is to weigh the evidence, and decide as if you knew nothing what- ever of the suit, or the parties to it, except what you have heard in court."  The jury again retired; but it would seem that the obsti. *,           ,  , I   A FAM1LY HSTORY. ,       137 nate juror was still unconvinced; for they did not soon return, as was expected. After waiting half an hour longer, word was sent that they had not, agreed, and there was no proba- bility that they ever would. T Let them come in, then," said the judge. They agnin defiled into their box; and the foreman, stand- ing up, said, "Owinll to the obstinacy of one mean, there is no prospect of agreeing on a verdict." "It is no obstinacy on my part," said Joel, interrupting the foreman: "it is the obstinacy of the other 'leven. They all admit that they would sooner take the word of Square Gom- ery than the sworn testimony of every other man in the house, including your honor; and yet the stubborn fools re- fuse to give him a verdict." -, "'But you have no evidence of that kind that you can entertain. His word is not legal evidence. You have no right, according to your oath to respect the law, to give any heed to any thincg so spoken." "But he said that the whole case of the plaintiff was a forgery and fraud, and that le knew it to be so of his own knowledge; and what he says I know is true, your honor knows it to be true, all my fellow-jurymen know it to be true; and they have no more doubtstthan I have that this plaintif is a great scoundrel, and has got up the case to rob the defendant of his property. We ,all know this to be the truth of the case; and, sooner than give a verdict in favor of a fraud and foirgery, I will be roasted like John Rogers. At this outhurst of nature, the judge could not forbear a smilb; the foreman, and the rest of the jury, looked abashed and guilty; and there was a movement among the spectators which showed that tlfev sympathized with the rebellious juror. The testimony to Gomery that had thus unwittingly been drawn from the lips of the honest Joel could not but cause a smile to overspread his face, that showed an inward satisfac- tion scarcely less than he would hlave felt-could he have seen Joe Punmpain at that moment enter the court-room.   He could see that all piresent, save only Seth Mettlal;, his lawyers, and his witness, fillly concurred in the testimony that had been wlung firon Joel Slocuml; and the question befbre the court, the lawsu'it, sunk into insignificance in his eyes. The judge could not expect a verdict from this-jury after such an exhibition of contumacy as he had witnessed; and 12*   , /f   i138    Co- m BrY OF MONTGOMERY : after giving Joel a brief lecture on the impropriety of carry. ing his prejudices andtstubbornness into the jury-box, and warning him that he had already exposed himself to severe punishment for contempt of co'prt, he dismissed the jury; and the case went over to the next term, to be tried again in its course, i   A FAMLY HSTORY,       139 s     I'i CHAPTER IX, "For most men, till by losing rendered sage'r, Will back their own opinion with a wager."-BYRON. AT the first trial, Mettlar was obliged to show his hand;  and this gave Gomery opportunity to prepare his defence'at the next one. He accordingly went to Boston to look up evidence, and to find counsel able to compete with the subtle Mr. Dextrous. He was determined not to appear himself a second time in the case, but to intrust the whole matter to a younger mAn, and one who was mhore familiar with the sharp practice of practical sharpers. He gave a thousand-dollar retainer-fee to Messrs. Myrick & Chauncey, reputed to, be the equals of any at the bar for " tough cases; " and having narrated at great length the history of the first trial, and recapitulated the points of Trevitt's testimony, he left the case in their hands, and returned to his home at the Pivot. Myrick and Chauncey set to work at once to hunt up the evidence that should confound Trevitt. They set detective police to inq uire all about the house where it was alleged - Randolph Gault had ended his. days, and' also to learn the particulars in regard to the other witness to the deed, before whom it svas acknowledged, and who had since died. But they could not find a flaw in Selh Mettlar's chain of evidence: on the contrary, they found several things to corroborate his ;version of the manner in which he had obtained the deed firom Randolph Gault. The house where the man had last lived, and(, finally died, was just as had been described; and numerous people in the neighborhood remembered a pool; broken old man, that had lived there a year before, and had died, and been buried from that house. The wonlan who kept the house was no longer there; and, if the whole affair was a fraud and a conspiracy, it was certainly so cleverly managed, that it would 'be hard to detect it. So wrote Myrick ?    140      G OMERY OF MONTGOMERY: , & Chauncey to their client; but he only aanswerd. them, that, as it was a plot to rob him, he would contest it, through one court after another, till it was impossible to do so any longer. Of the result of all these trials the reader has already been informed by good Deacon Giles, in his vindication of Brother Mettlar against the aspersions of Joe Pumpagin in the Boston City Tavern. The case was carried from 'one court to another, being contested at every step by Gomery, with a pertinacity, that, even to his friends, seemed headstrong and absurd. In the course of the -various trials, one fact had come out that was a great relief to many. of the residents of Mont- gomery Village. Those who had bouight their-land from the elder Gomery, or from the younger, long enough before this trial came on to have had the twenty years' unquestioned possession, could not be affected by the result of this case. Even though Gomery had no right to sell the land which they ignorantly purchased from him, yet, having heldiit twenty years without molestation, their title was complete; while his to that which he still claimed, having been disputed, or called in question, during each twenty yenrs, still depended :'on the final judgment in the "great lawsuit." Thus as it camen about that more than three-fourths of the people of Montgomery were not to be disturbed, even though Gomelry of Montgomery were evicted, they took less interest in the case; and manly of those who were not so fortunately circum- stanced took advantage of the generous offer of the politic Seth to compromise wit-h himn at al figure little more than nominal. Others determined to stand by Gomery, and do as he did; though he warned them, that, in this case, he was a most unsafe guide to follow. Hence it was, that, during the time the litigation was in;progress, two parties arose in the village. At first, there was no man there, except, perhaps, Silas Balton, who did, not tlAnk the claim of Mettlar firaudulent, and commend the spirit of Gomery in refusing all compromise, and resolving to contest it to the last. But, when some began to compromise, they found it necessary to justify their apostasy; and, to do that, they must praise the liberality and generosity of Mettlar; and from that it was easy to pass to comparisons, and say, that, under the same circumstances,. Gomery would never have been so liberal,   1 \  . i   ;'?       A- FAMLY HSTORY.     -   1 The result of all this was, that, when the final decision by the full bench of the Supreme Court of last appeals was given, -every point of which was in Seth Mettlar's favor,- Gomery found thM:t he had not only lost his property, but that many of his friends now loudly cried out against him. Seth had been wary enough to conciliate a good part of the villagers while the case might be said to be still in doubt; but when once every point had 'been decided in his favor, as he had warned them beforehand, no favors were granted. Those who could not establish the twenty years' possession were proceeded against without mercy; and by many Gomery was held accountable, because they had not compromised before it was too late. Besides this, as Deacon Giles informed Joe Pumpagin, when the case was finally decided in Mettlar's favor, he brought a libel suit against Gomery, which, firom ,the novel line of defence adopted by him, resulted in his being " cast" in heavy damages. The defence had been justificatiqn. Heie admitted that he, had called Mettlar a forger, a knave, a swindler, a perjurer, a suborner of peljury, a hypocrite, and, yet had not half described the infamy of his character. But as the verdicts and decisions of 'the courts had not sustained his cause, and he had no proofs of fiaud that had not. been' adduced and pronounced insufficient in the civil case, he had no evidence to sustain his justification, and was left to be mulcted in such damages as a jury-all of whom once thought him '"a man of most incorrigible and losing honesty," but now regarded as an obstinate, perverse calumniator-,imight  see fit to inflict.        .  Fortunately, however, before this time, the o:der sons of Gomery-Theron and Wirtimir- had taken, a more worldly and common-sense view of their father's difficulties than he had himself. Like dutiful children, they had both been on: to counsel and confer with their parents on this unexpected turn in their worldly fortunes; but, even to them, the 1od squire could not an'd did not confess how it was that he knew so positively that the claim of Seth Mettlar was all a fraud from beginning to-end. He told them that it was so, and he knew it; and they had too much respect and filial reverence to question him:further. Wirtimir was the first to visit him after hearing of the impending troubles; and, on -his return, he took counsel with his elder brother on theua-   '142     GOMLER Y OF MONTOMOERYB : toward event that was so calculated to disturb the current that was to bear downwards to the ocean of eternity those whom, above all others, they had so much reason to love and reverence. Theron soon imitated his brother's example, and made a visit to the Pivot, and, being convinced that the issue of the great suit was worse than doubtful, stopped at Boston on his way home, and unbeknown to his father, and so long before the final verdict that he could make reasonable terms, bought the old homestead, that included the Pivot, and a hundred acres of land surrounding it. The deed, however, was never put on record till the delays of the law: were exhausted; for the son was well aware that his father would' be greatly displeased if he knew that any of his family had had any dealings with that canting knave," as he always called the oily-tongued Seth. But when the decision had been rendered by the Appellate Court, and he had engaged a small house in the village, to which he intended to remove, and resume the practice of law, and wait, as he expressed it, "the justice that time and nature always bring," he was sur- prised to receive a very polite note from Seth, informing him that the house at the Pivot, with the outhuildings; and what- was called the "Home Farm," had been sold some months before, to his son Theron, for much' less than its value; -and that he had' done so to show that he forgave him for the  harsh and u  just language hb had used towards him. To this information he added a pious exhortation, to the effect that he hoped -his irreligious and unbelieving firiend would appreciate his Christian kindness, forsake, the error of his ways, and, forgetting the vanities of this world, spend the remnant of his days in seeking his soul's salvation. The old man was indignant at the letter; for he believed that Seth was a forger, and knew him to be a hypocrite and knave. He was also both indignant and grieved that his own son should have had any dealings with him. But, as he knew he had acted purely from filial kindness and affec- tibn, he smothered his resentment, and. continued to live in the old house. But as he steadily refused Seth's overtures for friendship, and did not heed his request, communicated by various officious persons, that by-gones should be by- gones, that worthy soul testified his further forgiveness by commencing a libel suit, laying his damages at ten thousand t dollar    A A FAMTTrY IISTORY.      143 CHAPTER X. "OQh enviable early days, When dancing thoughtless Pleasureds maze, To care and guilt unknown I How ill exchanged for riper times, To feel the follies or the crimes Of others or my own I' ,- LoxN before the termination of the great lawsuit, Walter Gomery had awakened so far from his dreamy speculations. as to feel that the life he was leading was, unprofitable, if not ignoble. He -saw as well as others what the final result of the long litigation must be; and that, in tte natural order of events, it would be his-duty to earn his own bread. The family estate must, in all probability,.sooner or later pass into other and unlineal hands; and he must make up his mind either to be a dependant on hisrich relatives, or launch' l his untried bark on the sea of the world's struggles and com- petitions. He had never before considered that he had, any thing else to do in life than live and love, speculate, and write his great book, that was to confound doubters, and solve a host of social, political, and religious problems. 'But now, he perceived that he had the duty before him of earn- ing the bread he wals to eat; and that, to do this, he must break away from his old habits and customs, and go forth into the world, dependent only on himself. When- his mind was made up as to what duty required, he was not long in putting his resolution into practice. The altered fortunes 'of the Gom-ery Family had caused such a difference of demeanor in some of the people of the village, that Walter felt it as a reason for going away.- Still he would have cared little for it, but that from one, quar- ter he was subjected to reproaches, sarcasm, and insult.  Obededom Homer, who was grown a dissipated young man of near his own age, now turned upon him with all the vin- dictiveness of his nature. Naturally vicious, his misfortune I       ' ,    "4      GOMERRY OF MOnTGOmERY: had rendered him worse. Long indulged as a suffering inva- lid, he expected, when recovered, the same indulgelce and deference to his whims and caprices. We have seen how he repaid Walter's kindness and attention when he was suffer- ing most. After his pain had left him, he 'was little more considerate, and continued to delight in playing practical jokes upon him, from the doable pleasure derived from an- noying Walter and grieving hister Hester. He was a cripple, and for a long time went about on crutches: after- wards he got along with a single crutch, and at last with a cane. The right knee-joint was set at an angle that barely allowed the toes of that foot to touch the ground as he stood upright. As he was an idler,-he verified tihe truth of the saying, that "Satan will always find solme mischief for idle hands to do.": He first took to trading in jack-knives and watches with other young men that he met at school and about the stores; and from this he became a horse-dealer; being ever ready forda bargain with any one who would "swap" and give boot. His poor father would see a good horse swapped off for an inferior one, and this, again, for another still worse; till finally the last rack-a-bones would be sold for a song, and the poor man would be obliged to bhy another. This would be sure to go in nearly the same way; until at last the old man determined to compromise affairs with his son by giving him the small farm he owned a-couple of miles from the village, on the Tivernet Road, on the con- dition he was to take that, and be satisfied. But the gracee- less youth sold the farm within a year, taking in payment five hundred dollars in cash and three horses. The horses l he took at once to his father's stables; and, as he was in no immediate need of money, he did not trade them out as form'erly, but kept them a, long time to eat up the hay and grain of his indulgent and grieving father. Poor Tom Homer; now an old man, groaned in spi it as he saw the 'property, acquired with such toil, squa'ndeled and lost. But he had no power to resist. The son was arrogant, insolent, and domi- neering, and was master of the house. When lie camne home from the village, he brought no sunshine with ]im to gladden, the house. No face smiled at his approach; foi, the first word he uttered was sure to be a surly complaint or anulry command.   Often did Thomas Honler and his wife talk over between themselves the ingratitude and evil courses of their   A F,-rMNLY IiISTOny.         1:45 only son. They felt that they had no power in themselves to reform him, or save, the whole family finom poiicrty and ruin. Under these circumstances, they were doubly pleased to know of the attachment existing between Hester and Walter Gomery; not doubting that it would resultf in mar- ringe, and that, therefore, whatsoever might come to them throughll Obed's folly and extravagance, she would be well provided for., But eiven this hope was taken away from them when it became evident that Squire Gomery would be left a poor nman,--the poorest man in thetown, and quite unable to pay his- debts. Walter would inherit nothing; and, as he had never given any promise of' business talent or capacity, it seemedl that they wele loing a great wrong to Hester in pe- mitting Obed to squander what should be rightfully her patrimony. Forsome time before the commencement of the great lawsuit, Obed had accepted it as a fact that his sister would marry Walter Gomery; and, thoughrtoo unamiable to I/care for either of them, his pride was flattered by the in- tended connection, and he thought, too, it would be a good thing in a pecuniary sense to have a rich relation. But, in spite of these considerations, hs malignant natume rejoiced when misfortunes camel upon the Gomerys. -lie- never met his sister but le indulged in an exultant chuckle at the changed prospects of Walter; and,if he met the lat- ter, his malicious eye revealed the. triumph of his heart; and his viciqus tongue would let fall some remark, as that some folks who always played the gentleman would have to dig potatoes for a living yet. Walter felt that it was time for him to leave; that he could, not and ought not to stay longer at Montgomery. His changed prospects were the: subject of many lonng and seriou conversations with Hester; and many plans and pro- jects for the future did they discuss and consider. She could not object to his going away; for her own heairt was made to bleed too often by the cruel words of her brother on his ac- count for her not to realize the necessity of his departure, Hester Homer was "pu;re womanly." Not strong-minded, nor intellectually gifted, she was all love and affection to every thing and everybody.  Inbher childhood, as we have: seen, she had been very delicate, pale, andfiragile. Hereyes were large and blue, and her complexion was fine and deli- GVLu. n.     18 * .   "6       GOM:RY OF MONTGOMERYt:  cate as ever rejoiced a proudl mother's heart. In her earlier years, she was,so fragile as to appear almost sickly; and it was not till she was past her fifteenth birthday that her body had acquired the strength and vigor necessalry to de- velop all of Nature's reserved beauties. She never took greatly to books or studies, but was ever happy with herx pets and flowers. The dreamy sp'eculations of Walter she could but little appreciate; but his earnlest nature ,ind con- siderate kindness appealed to her heart, and she' reg(acrded him as a being of a superior order. When she realized the fact that it was necessary that he must leave her for a time, she acquiesced, though with many tears; in the belief that lie knew and would do what was' for the best. She had little of self-reliance; and, as if conscious of her own deficiency in this respect, she clung with fbond tenacity to those who commanded her respect; while, to those who could respon d to her affection, she gave her love without suspicion and with- out guile. Frank and artless in her manne;, she had small faith in her own apinions; and partly fronm the plian6y of her disposition, and partly from the desire of seeing others pleased, she would readily yield her own preferences and pleasures, if thereby the gratification of those around her could be secured. Though Walter, in one sense, had not been idle since learv- ing college, his occupations had been of that -kind that had brought no money. He had been an onnivorous reader; and had written many fragments that he intended to work into the great book that he was resolved to write. This idea he now felt, that, for the time at least, he must give tp; for his altered prospects would no longer justify him in anticitiatin a quiet life at the Pivot, watching the parental footsteps ,as they de- scended the down-hill of life, and sharing the pleasures and delights of domestic quiet with the woman of his love, fi'ee from the cares and' troubles that follow those who strive for 'wealth and fame. But these dreams must all be given up; and so, with a resolution and finrmness hardly to be expected from his character, he made his preparations without impart- ing to any one but his father, and mothel; and her to whom he had 1lrolnised to return anclat a future time take witlh him to his new and as yet undiscovered home, hi^s intentions to leave Montgomery, and ,begin thus late the battle of life. ; Though be resolved, previous to setting out, that under no          .     ,   I] ' A, FAM H SOR - --.A AMT Y HSTOT.    147 circumstances would he become in any way dependent on his rich relations in the great cities, yet, as he must pass throuogh those places on his wayV to that unknown country \Vhere :he. expected to begin his struggles, he must, 'of coulrse, visit his brothers and sisters. This had been .enjoined upon him by both father anud mother; and the latter hoped that he might by them be induced to abandon his design of going fartlhel; and, under their protection and assistance, embark in business that would place him, like them, independent of the world. But lie felt the impossibility of accepting any proposition of the kind. There had never been much sympathy of ideas between his brothers and himself. His ways were not their ways. He did not incline to business; nor could he see how ithe accumulation of weaith was in itself a worthy object, or its possession the highest earthly enjoyment. For him there were still other objects in life; and he had self-knowledge sufficient to, convince him, that, in the pursuiit of a vocation or calling to which -he was by nature unfitted, he would proba- bly prove ineffticient, and fail.  During theb tinie of his miscellaneous reading, he had been ostensibly studclying law; but his legal studies were such as would be pursued by the statesman or political economit, and not by the practising attorney. He was well- grounded in the principles of the noble science; but the forms of prac- tice he had never lealrned. Nevertheless, after making up his mind to go away, and before avowing his purpose to any one ' save Hestel; lie ventured to apply for admission to the bar; and, by good management, was rejected. The reason of this was, first, that, as the phrase wentt in the village, "the house of Gomemry was falling;" and, second, that he knew too much.  His examiners began by proposing what they thought puz- zling questions: but he entered into the principles on which certain rules of the'law were founded, so fully as to confound them, and, by a sort of cross-questioning them in turn, so thorouighly exposed their own ignorance of the fundamental principles of law, that they unanimously reported him not qualified; adding the consoling advice, that, with a couple of years more of study, he would doubtless be able to pass a satisfactory examination. This result astonished many peo- ple; and it was remarked, that if lhe had applied a year and a half before, when lie did not know half so much law, he would doubtless  have been admitted to practice, without  p .at   I48      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: question. But the Mettlar suit had intervened; and even the best friends of the Gomerys felt a secret satisfaction at their 'misfortunes. -Now, any thing that could humiliate was not considered improbable.       .    . Amid all, these reverses and calamities, however, the old squire was hs light of heart, apparently, as ever; mlid, though he saw clearly enough that liis neighbors paid him less defet- ence than formerly, he took good care that they should not ? perceive that he observed it. ' Even the parson of the All- saints could with difficulty get an opportunity to express his condolence with him, and to warn him, in viowiof his Uncer- tain tenure of his worldly possessions, to lay tul treastres in heaven; and, if his earthly riches were swept away, to con- sider it as a lesson, doubtless sent as a special providence to punish him forlris unbelief. To this his rejoinder was, that "if I were as orthodox in belief and as loud in my uv prayer as the canting thief who is trying to rob me, it would not, pro- bly, save my property; and, if it would, how then coulda your good brother Mettlar be rewarded for his piety? Could my property be gained by him, and saved to me by that means, and thus, by a sort of transubstantiation or a hocus-pocus, both of us be rewarded for our piety'?" The good parson said that "' great is the mystery of godli- ness;" and it would be useless to try to bring him to a sense of his condition, until, like Dives, he waked up in hell, being in t6rment, and beheld Mettlar like Lazarus in Abraham's bosom. This retort was reported to the faithful at the next conference,  and they were greatly comforted. ; Proud, ambitious Mrs. Gomery, howevere, did not regard i the '-impending loss of property so calmly and wisely as did i her husband. She showed that she was annoyed by the changed manners of her neighbors; and, instead of bruskly laugting to herself at their filly and fickleness, she made many little observations, that, though sarcastic and just, still afforded the objects of them consolation; for they showed that she ,was annoyed and hurt. But sh'e mixed little with society, and shut herself up as exclusively as possible in her own house; and, after a while, was so seldom seen abroad, that it was im- possible for her malicious friends and neiahborsfto annoy her, and, which glieved them worse, to kncw that she was annoyed. All these changes were observed by Waltel;r, and contrib- uted to make him impatient of delay. Any place in the   A FaM rY HsToRJY.        149 world, it seemed to him, would be less suggestive of unpleas- ant thoughts than his native village; and he left it, feeling that he was an exile, and must return to it as his home never again. He took with him only money enough to seirve hilm, at the nMost, two months; for he concluded,: that, if ever he was to earn his bread, the sooner he began, the better it would be. Of all things, he now most wanted to get to work; for he was no sickly sentimtentalist whining and puling for sympathy, but, when the necessity for labor and endurance appeared, he was ready to bear his part. Though aware that any call for aid from home, or frozin either brother or sister, would be prompt- ly and chee'fillly responded to, yet he was determined that in no contingency would he ever callfor help from any such source; and this not so much from pride as from the reflection that he was a well man, possessed of all his faculties; and, if he could not earn his bread, he concluded- as many others might with propriety -that he had better die. On his arrival at the house of his brother and brother-in- law at New York, his reception was more cordial and warm than he had expected. Indeed, gfor the past few years, he had' seen little of his brothers or sisters. His memory of the- former, when he was a boy, was of large, rough, rollick- ing fellows, that often dealt rudely with him, delighting to annoy his pets, and always laughing at his queer, oldc-fash- ioned ways. Since then, they had always-regarded him as odd and eccentric; and always spoke slightingly of his pro- pensity to retirement, and unprofitable dreaming and specu- lations. But, if such a life suited him, they cared little about it 'as long as every thing went prosperously at the- old homestead.  That they would; of course, always wish to keep in the family; and if he preferred to remain there,  and inherit the Pivot, it would always be to them and their children a delightfiul retreat, to which they would make occasional pilgriinmages when wishing to escape from, the  cares and excitement of towri life. But now 'that their' feather was like to be stripped of all his property, and the Pivot, if not rescted by therm from the spoiler's hands, would go to Rstrangers, they t holught it hig h time for Walter to-give up dreaming, and set-himself to business. "Accordingly, when he reached New York, lis brothcer Theron, his sis- ter Juliet, and his brother-in-law, Jenks, all tried to per- suade him to give up his project of going off on a wild-goose e  "  13'        '        '   150      GOM:ERY OF MOlTGOMNERY: chase he knew not whither or for what object, and set himself down to the routine of business in some ilouse in New York; assuring him that they could easily find him any situation that he was competent to fill. But, however ro- mantic his ideas, he acted on his own convictions; and for reasons within his own mind, when once he had resolved, he was not to be coaxed, persuaded, or driven from his purpose. At Philadelphia, he was subjectec to still stronger pressure to induce him to remain there: but the result was the same; and after spending a fortnight there, debating whether he should go west or south, an incident occurred that deter- mined his course. But, until we know any thing more of him or his fortunes, many changes will take place at Mont- gomery; and we shall meet with some old acquaintances in whom the" reader may still have an interest. ? '  - ,.      \ ', .                          , , ;$    -A FAMLY HSTORY.         1i CHAPTER XLI "Adieu I -1 a heart-warm, fond adieu I Though I to foreign lands must hie, Pursuing Fortune's slidd'ry ba', With melting heart and brimful eye I'll mind you still, though far awa'." - BUNS; THE great lawsuit has been brought to a close, and the final decision has been given; and a year has passed since Seth Mettlar was declared, by the highest tribunal in the land, to be the owner of the Gault-Gomery Estate. The village is changed from what it once was. Gomery of Mont- gomery has not the influence he once had; and he no longer tries to exert what is left to himn  The village has changed, not so much in outward appearance as in the character of its people. There the stern yet glowing light of Freeborn Gomery's presence is not potent; ag formerly, to hush scan- dal, and frown down strife and litigation.. The whole place seems to have become quarrelsome and litigious. Neighbor  is now against neighbor; and strife and contention - are in many places where they had before been unknown. Even ,Cook and Craig, both of whom  are now grandfathers, have fallen out again; and neither has the assurance to-apply to" Gomery for counsel or advice. With the change in the fortunes of Freeborn Gomery, or, as the people ambitiously expressed it, with the fll of the houseof Gomery," Diller's Tavern seemed to loseits charx- acter. His wife had become aged and infirm; and' even Diller's strength was too often recuperated fi omin the bottle. People continued to meet in his bar-room to talk over public  affairs: but now they invariably came to personalities; and- many bruised shins, bloody noses, and broken heads, were carried out of his doors.   He was no longer the active, loquacious little fusser of the jolly days of. old. His tongue only knew its old vigor when the character and forqunes of Gomery of Montgomery were under discussion,   Then he   ;152 O- wMRY OF MONTGOMERY: always waxed wroth, and declared that Gomely was, in all respects, the best man and the best Christian he ever knew, or ever expected to know, and that he had been - iobbed of his property by the meanest lantern-jawed hypoclite that ever disgraced the Eagle by his presence; and all who did not agree with him were requested never to darken his doors. And all this, too, when Seth Mettlar was his, guest, and occupying the best rooms in his house, and paying double the price he had ever asked before. He had growln old in the faithl that Gomery was the nman to stand by and to swear by; and, now that misfortunes were upon him, he was more vehement than ever in his praises. This was well known to Seth, who, for a year before the lawsuit was finally decided, had been a resident of Montgomely, living all the, while at Dillers Tavern. But he never combated Dillets opinions or expressions: on the contrary, lhe rather com- mended his fidelity, saying it was a most noble trait to stand by one's friends in misfortune. Further than this, the meek and misrepresented Seth gave no sign, except to'avoid the subject, and avoid Diller, too, when he was gabout opening on his favorite topic. : This, however, was not longa to continue, though Seth's forbearafnce was often cited by his friends as evidence of his Christian charity. He endured all the hard things said of him by the chattering old landlord until after the final decision, beyond which there was no appeal. Then he left the house; and, for reasons not suspected at the time, he boutght and moved into the cottage-house about a mile firom the village, and near to the house of Thomas Homer. Herle, with one servant brought from Boston, he began keeping bachelor's hall. He and Obededom had somehow become great friends, thougli very different in habits and character. There was one point of sympathy between them,; and that was mutual hatred of the Gomerys. Obededom had tra(ded out and squandered the proceedsf of the farm his fa-ther, had given him; anlld Seth was so indulgent as to loan him small sums of money on his own security, and larger ones when his father could be toaxed or bullied into giving llis note. This acqtuaintanceship was highly gratifying to Mrs. ITomel; who hoped great good from it for Obed: and she remarked to her husband, that the influence of so religious and worthy toh   A FAMLY HSTORY.        153 a iman as Mr. Mettlar. would be of, reat benefit to Obed; for "he always was a( good-hearted boy." But Thomas shook his head, and said lhe feared no good would come from those * who made war on Gomery of M-ontgomery. It was not lonc after Seth had changed his quarters from the Eagle to his ownZ house, when it so happened that Obed Homer camne into the bar-roonm to treat a friend who had. just cheated him at a horse-trade. There were a number of people in the room, including several of the villagers, and half a dozen, travellers who had stopped there for the night. Obed, feeling rich, invited everybody to drink; and, in the course of the conversation that followed, he- spoke of the brighlter prospects for the people of Montgomery now that Old Gomery had been obliged to disgorge the wealth that never was his, nll ad Iman of enterprise and Christian prin- ciples had come in to give business a start and clever fellows a chance.  This, remark was overheard by Diller, iwho, standing behind his bar on a raised platform that added eight inches to his: height, allways felt -free t launch forth his opinions of men and things; and accordingly he spoke up, so that his sharp, piping voice ;could be hetard clear into the street, and said, that as he believed, and every other honest man,- thlough he gave his opinion confideltially, and not publicly,-the Gomery property lhad all been stolen by them Boston rascals, and that Seth Mettlar was the king on 'erm; and that he had no-more right to it than Buck- Robinson had to the horse he stole of Cyrus Saunders, and which he was now ini the State Prison for. If justice was done, he added, he guessed that Buck Robinson and Seth Mettlar would put up at the same tavern. This tirade: of the rash landlord was duly reported to Mettlar by his fiaithful fiendl Obed the next, day, which happened to be Sunday, as the good man was sitting in front of his cottage, towards evening, conversing with several of his neighbors one  theological points; that had been authoritatively settled that day by Parson Skeelman in his afternoon's discourse. In the heat of the discussion, Obed drove up in a flashy light wagon drawn by the horse he had traded for the day before, paying bpot with the non'ey lent him by Mettlar. Alighting fromhis carriage, he limped up towards the house, and was met half-way by Seth, who   164       OkQMERY- OF MONTGOMERY: warmly shook his hand; remonstrating with him at the same time for not having been at church, assuring him that he had lost a great deal. "Yes, yes! I dare say; but I will attend to those things in time. The Devil ain't going to catch me; and, if he thinks he has got me fast, he'll find I'll slip the halter yet before I kick the bucket. But I haven't come to talk religion; in- -deed, I make a d--d poor fist of it when I try it. I'rye coime to: let you know what that magpie of old Gomery says of you, and to tell you, that, if you don't shut up his clam- 'shells, I shall. It makes my blood bile to see my friends abused so!" "Why, what did he say?" spoke'up several. "He said that Mr. Mettlar was a thief' and a robber; had stole old Gomery's property; was the king of the Boston rascals; and that he had no more right to his property than Buck Robinson had to the horse he stole from Cyrus Saun-' ders, that he was sent to jail for; and, if justice was done,; he and Buck would put up at the same tavern, and. sleep- in the same bed."           ! Seth said "f it was a great pity men. should be so unjust to those who never did them any harm; but Diller wns a poor weak creature, a silly tool of Freeborn Gomery, and he could not feel it in his heart to resent his scandalous words. Indeed, he was not angry, -not at all: he kneow the wrealk-  ness of poor human nature, and that the heart of man was deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked." 'You will certainly take some means to put a stop to his calumnies," said Nathan Jones, a man who had early es- poused the cause of Seth, as he said, on religious grounds, fobr the good reason that he always regarded Gomery of Montgomery as: a godless, graceless man. "No: I can forgive him, not only till seven times, but till seventy times seven."  "'But he says he won't have your forgiveness," said -Na-  than. "I have heard him talk; and when I told how you disregarded his vile words, and did not resent them, bu:t, in view of his ignorance, would freely-forgive him, he replied, that when you gave-up the property, land confessed you: had got it by fraud and forgery, then you might forgive him, but not before." Seth cast his -eyes upwards as if beseeching Heaven to   A FAMLY HSTORY.         155 witness his resignation under persecution, but afterwards slat moody and silent. His friends and neighbors soon after took their leave, more than ever impressed that the towi and the church had made a, great acquisition in having for its richest arid most influential citizen a man so meek and orthodox, instead of the fiee-thinking, sternly-judging Gomery of Mont- gomery. After Seth's friends had left him, he sat for some time meditating vengeance on little Diller., He wyas such a garru- lous, irrepressible talker, that he thought it Would be undig- nified to pursue him for libel as he had Gomery; and, be- sides, he wanted to- show that he was of a forgiving spirit. So he resolved to ruin him by putting up an opposition tav- ern, larger and better than the Eagle, and thus take away his custom. This he would do from a sense of duty, and as a public-spirited citizen; but he would bear no malice to Diller. He would only rescue travellers -from the necessity of listening to his slanderous tongue. A large vacant lot in the centre of the town, and over aagainst the Eagle, had always been retained by Gomery; and this having, with the rest of that estate, fallen indue course of law to Seth Mettlar, he determined to make .this the site of the new hotel. He talked over his project with some of his most confidential- friends; and, that it might not appear to be a scheme of his own- to revenge himself on Dil- ler, he proposed to make,a joint-stock dbmpany, and take the most of the stock to himself. They readily joined in the enterprise; and, in a few days, it was announced that a new hotel was to be built right opposite the Eagle, so much larger, finer, and more commodious, that little Diller's house wounld appear but as a pig-sty beside it. I am sorry to say that soime men took stock in this new hotel, of whomn better things were to be expected; for, disguise it to themselves as they mioht that thev acted only from a desire to encourage public enterprise, they all knew that the project originated in the malice of Seth Mettlar. Among these were both Craig and Cook and Thomas Homer; the lattei, however, being pressed into it by his wife and his hopeful son, the former of whom had always been a worshipper of wealth, and regarded poverty as a crinme; while mqney, more com. prehensive than charity, wotild cover every sin. I The scheme was hardly mooted before it came to DillerAs ,    i  '   '      156      GO MRY OF MONTseomE  r : ears, and he-at once understood its dread import. He was to be ruined by inches by the cool, malignant Seth Met- tlar. At-first his- rage vas so great, that he collld say noth- ing; and, when asked what he thought of the project, his tongue failed. "Gentlemen," said he to the bystanders, excuse me: I can't at present do justice to the sulbject.?' As evening fell, he thought he  would -gh up and consult Illis old friend Gomery on the ,ispect of things: but, just as he was sallying forth into the street, he saw a carriage witl two homses drive' byin the direction of the Pivot; andl, as he had no doubt it contained one of the sons or daugliters from abroad, he thought it better to postlone his visit till morning. Diller had been right in his conjecture. The carriage that he sawnvpassing throughl the village the night before con- tained Wirtimir 'Gomery and his eldest son, now a good- sized lad. He hld come on to see what could be done for the old people, who latterly, though still living at the Pivot, had found life less pleasant than befoie the ,dark shadow of Seth Mettlar had crossed their path. They were alone; not one of their children was left with them: and, under their chalnged circumstances, they did not wish any one to remain there, and lbe conmpelled to witness tie changes that were going on, especially in the respect and regard shown to the family. But a greater solurce of grief to them was that they had, heard nothing from Walter since he left?hiladelphia. They knew he had there shipped on a small vessel to go farther south; but even the name of the vessel was unknown to them. Had he been-lost at sea? and were his bones lying at the bottom of the Atlantic? Was he cast away on a desert shore? or was he wandering, suffering, perhaps, in a foreign land? A year had gone by, and not a word from him had his paients received, ;ind they greatly feared that he hadl fomund a watery grave t when one autumn evening, as Mrs. Gomery was sitting alone, just as daylight was shutting dowin into darkness, thinking of poor Walter; the door opened, and Hester Homer entered. The candles' had not yet been lighted; but the light from the brisk autumn fire was sufficient to reveal the excited features of Hester.- "What, Hester, you!" said Mrs. Gomery,- rising and em- bracing her, while the' tears rolled fast down the cheeks of   A FAM T HSTOBTY.  .  both. "What has brought you? you have not been here for so -lon." Hester sank dolwn in a low chair, and faintly said ,'A le-tter!" Mrs. Gomery also sank back in her chair; and gasped, "A letter, a, letter! - from Walter?"  '- "yes, fi'on vWallter; but I have not seen it. Oh, deal; lear!  I shall go crazy; indeed I shall: I can't live this life. -any lolnger. )o take me here, and let me' live with yopu! Obel has got :the letter and read. it, andi says he has lost it."   i "Ah, thank God! then he is alive." "Yes: he is a live, but is dead to me. B^it it is false!" "Dear child, be caln! What does he say?" Between sobs and tears, she managed in time to say that Obed found a letter fr her in, the post-office, and opened and read it; and Walter wrote that he had become tutor to a rich planter's family, and should never return. "t ' Tis false!" said Mrs. Gomery firmly: "he wrote no such "He says, too, I had better forget him; for he is soon to be mrnried- to the planter's daulhterl who is heiress to a large plantltion."        ,  "'Tis flse!  Show me the letter!" "-e says, that, after reading the letter; he put it in his hat; and, in coming home, it blew off, and the letter flew into the river, and he has forgot the name of the place where the letter was written." "1I don't believe a word of it. He never got any letter." "Oh, yes, he did!  for father was there too, and saw the i postnmaster give it to him.'" ;  ', Did your father read the letter?" "Oh, no!   He wouldn't read my letter without my per- nmission."                     " The truth was, a  letter lad been received, antd given by tlhe postmaster to helr fatler; and he, unthiinkilgly, glave it to Obcd to take home to his sister. The old man hald come to the  village w rith his ox-teamI to haul out some lumber to repair his barn; and Obcd was, of course, there with hIis horse and wagon. The letter was well woroln, as though it had come a   long way; and Obed sav that it was in Wal- telrs handwriting. VOL. i      .    168      GOMEdY OF MONTGOMERY: Thie reader has doubtless discovered ere this th it Obed has set Is heat on having his sister manirry Seth Mettlar, notwithstandiqglshe is not twenty, and he is past forty-five. From the first (partly from admiration, and partly from mal- ice),Seth had determinlled to crown his triumnphl over the Gomerys by winning to himself, by fair means or foul, the W-oman \,lo had, from a child, been plighted to Walter.: It iwas to have an ally in Obed that Seth had affected so much friendship towards him, and been so fiee to- lend himn mohney. Blot, though words of praise of his friend were always in Obed's mouth when in the presence of his sister, he never could induce her to tolerate'his presence. Though yielding and gentle generally, yet, whenever Seth Mettlar came to the house, she kept her own room, against both the threats and persuasibns of Obed and her mother. The latter had adopted the views of her son, and was as eager as he that she should look kindly on Seth. Hester saw through the whole scheme, and, for a while, used to steal away from home, as often as possible, and go and take counsel with Mrs. Gom- ery. But this:refuge and solace were soon forbidden her; and' she felt herself to be a prisoner at home, -a solrt of An- dromeda exposed to a monste.   '        , Affairs were at this stand at the time that Obed ireceived the letter, and started for home, having it in his pocket. On his way, he was greatly troubled for fear it might contain a promise of Walter's return; in which event, all his affection- ate and brotherly designs would come to nought. So, in his doubt and dilemma, he resolved to call, on his way home, and take counsel with his-friend Seth Mettlar. Seth at once proposed that he should open the letter, and . read it; and Obed concluded that they must do that, in order? to ascertain what it would be necessary and pr6per to do next. So Obed broke the seal, and read the letter to his friend. It was full of tenderness and affection, and gave an account of his doings since liis last letterl was written; wlich, he said, he had enclosed in one to his mother six months before. He wondered why he had never received an answer to it. He concluded by prolmising to return, at the farthest, in two years, if life were spared him. By that time, lihe doubted not he would be able to offer her a humble home. "That letter must be stopped,.' said Seth. "It can't be done: father knows I have got it; and so does   A. FAMiLY HSTOR .       159 Capt. Keyes, the postmaster. He said he guessed i1 was fi'om Walter G'omery. "Can't you lose it?" said Seth. "Say that your hat blew off, anl it flew into the, river." "But she will know I had it, and will think he is coming right home; andt that Will be worse thban the letter.' "Tell hler thllat the seal was already broken, .ad that you read it, and he said he was never coming home again, but was going to marlry another girl. "I milght do that," said Obed musingly. "I t-tink, how- ever, I will keep the letter; -and, if the worst comes to the worst, I can give it up, and say I only meant it as a joke." "1That will never do," said Seth, taking the letter; ancd carefully reading it over to himself, and then handing it back. You are not afrtaid, I hope, of such a milk-sop as this Walter." "Me afraid of any Gomery! I'll show you how much I am afraid of himn!" And with this he crumpled the letter, anid threw it in the fire. "All right," said Seth; "but don't let her know that I knew any thinrg about it. If she takes on too much, you cnn tell, hel how to direct her letter, and she will get another. But I didnl't notice where this was datedl." "Nor I: what  a pity!" -Seth, lowever, had noticed it, and h-ad made the suggestion to see if Obed had done the same; and, as soon as Obed had left him, he jotted it down in his note-book, that it should not afterwards slip his memory. Mrs. Gomely saw that a cluel imposition had been attempt- ed on Hestet; and told her so. She said that the letter doubtless contained the most cheering news, or else it would not have been lost; that she-would probably get another one soon; and, in the mean while, she must speak to the postmaster to deliver no more of her letters, except into her own hnnd. But these encouraging words gave small consolation to poor Hester. She returned home as said as she came. It had got to be dark before she set out to cross over by the back path from the Pivot; and 1 as she hurried home, being blinded by her tears, in crossing a brook she made a misstep, and wet her feet. On reaching hlome, for the first time. she was glad to learn that Seth, Mettlar was in the parlor, as it gave her an excuse for going to her own room, and thus es- caping from the censuring eye of her mother. She sat an honur in the room, thinking over the events of the day, till   160       OMERY OF. MONTGOMERY: at last the cold lampness of her extremities warned her of her careless exposure. She took up her Bible, and read a few verses, not comprehending a wordl. Then she breathed a prayer; and then "Her gentle limbs did she undress, And lay down in her loveliness." But not to sleep. What with the excitement, and the ex- posure, she tossed ,about, growing each moment, more fidgety, till at last the' idl a possessed her that she was wandering barefoot over the f'ozen ground, seekling for Walter; tand so vividlly did the hlalucination possess hel, that she called aloud on his name, so that both her father and mother were awa- kened friom their first sleep by her cries. They both hastened to her room ; but Hester knew them not. She called upon them, with a voice harsh and unnatural, to give her back: Walter. The mothel looked at her daughter; whose -wild, unnatural eyes smote her to the heart; and, hardly knowing what she said, she exclaimed, "God's curse is upon me, I verily believe!" The -old man hurried from the room, and calledl up Obed (who slept in a distant partn of the house), and bade him hurry for the doctor; for that Itsterwas. stark mad, and calling for Walter. Even this selfish, heartless, and unnatural brother was now alarmed. He hastily dressed; and seizing his cane, and hur-: rying to the stable, he brought out and harnessed his horse, and was away to find the doctor. The wise and learned Dr. Purkitt had been gathered, with all his, wisdom, .to his fithers, long before this; and it was profanely remarked by sundry of his left-handed admirers, that, by such an acquisi- tion, the. amount of knowledge in the other world must be greatly increased. -D-)r, Toler was now the recognized -phsician of Montgomery. As Obed was driving towards is lhouse as fast as she dared in the darkness, he could not but think that perhaps his sister would die, and then h e must admit that he had killed her. IThen the thought of how, for long yearls, sle had bolne his inkindness-with the most for- giving' gentleness, came upon Ills mind; and, in spite of Illim- self; the tears came into his eyes. Then he lexcuseld himself' by saying it was all the fault of that intrude;r, Walter: and then the thought occurred that he already owed Seth a great deal of money, who was his best friend, and he ought to   A PAnlT Y HSTOr. -y serve him; and perhaps Hester wonld not die, after all,- she might get well, and change her mind; and, on the wole, he concluded, as he drove tp to the doctor'os doo; that 1 le had done aIolt ii11t.  The first glenms of daylight could be seen streaking the east as Dr. Toler and Obed entered the house. Obed hadn't the courlnge to enter the sick-room ; but, having learned that Hester was about the same as when he left, he sneaked off to his own room, and was soon asleep. The doctor examined/his patient, and said there was no immnediate  I danger; bult she had evidently receid ashock from- which she would not recover for months. She had a sort of delirious or brain fever; and would require the closest attention an(d care. T'he good   std   t  e  he/goodi man staid with the ,grief- stricken parents till after si n1rise; and, woald of Hesters un- happy condition having been sent to the neighbohls, several of those oatuie women who were famous for their services when people first came into the wolrld, and for disposingd the decently when they left it, had come to render assistance Among  the filst of those who came to give their aid and sympaGthy- was Mrs.' Gomelry. She entered the house as if it were her own; and even Mrs. Homer shrank back abashed befotre lhe, l:)erhaps hinlking of therebluff she had received wlhn shentlt ed to suiggest that her viciousson had been taklen .nd mistaklen by herl for a Gomery. She entered a (s'tei's loonm Wtithlout invitation; and helr mothe, saw witl reliefalnd stisfction tlat she recognized ller, called her by nalec, and spoke endeearingly to haer, hile all the rest, inclu-ding her iatlaer and mother; appeared to her as stlrangelrs. Mrs. Gomely staid with her the larger part of the day; but as there was no imlmnediate dange,; and she had been advised  that laer so Witiir would p'obably ahime thoat ZiNlglt, slCe eCft f1r honme, promising to come the next cay. It w:ls lafter a clay likle tis tlat she welcolmed the son, - hom for fix-e y ears, she- h]ad not Seen,       :  After sluppcl,; the youna Maaster Freeborn ho as now ak-  1i)s first visit to his grmndlparents,  was despatceled, very tirled and sleepy, to bed. Thle conversation that ensued durilln the long evenincg caln be plretty well imangined by the reade,; fiorn lhis kinowledvce of the fatnily-a ails. ' Witimir had come on with the idea, that, after all, it would be best ,b "*   '162      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: for the old people to",give up the Pivot, and' move away, so that they could be nearer their children. He said they had all conferred togethetr on the subject, except Walter; and he was of small account, besides being a poor wanderel;r, nobody knew where; and they had agreed to buy any city or subulrban place that might please them in or near either New York or Philadelphia, so that they could see each other every day if they liked. But neither the squire nor his wife would listen to this suggestion for a moment. They wisely said they were too old to get accustomed to a- new place;i that, however good people they might find their new acquaintances, there could not be the same identity of interests, sympathies, and feelings, as with those among whom they had spent so many years,-those little incidents of social life that make' up the pleasures of the old would be wanting; that, at Mont- gomery, they knew everybody, and everybody knew them; and, if ever a neighbor called on them, they'would be inter- ested in all he had to say; if his child was, sick, they could condole with him; if his cow was lost, or'his horse had got lamed they could do the same'. But, in aj new place, they could feel little interest in such affairs; and few or nlone would come to them for advice or condolence. As they were, they could share, to some extent, the enjoyments of the'younger people; and though they had experienced much i,ngratitude in their misfortunes, that pierceed them to the quick, yet, on the other hand, they had received much genuine sympathy, which they could never have known in prosperous times; and Mrs. Gomery spunkily remarked, that true friends she would not pain, nor false ones gratify, by going away. The next morning, they were allup betimes; and, while the breakfast :was preparlng, the old squire, Wirt, and young Freeborn, were out looking at the farm,the cattle, horses, and hogs. The apple-trees in the orchard were now loaded with fruit that "burned among the withered leaves;" and the '"good trees" were pointed out to the delighted Freeborn. JIn looking over the place, recallingr to mind the events of his boyhood, ahd suLrveying its scenes, Wirt could not wonder at his parents' unwillingness to leave the Pivot. I It was a beautiful place, having a commanding view of all the surrounding country, save that to the south-west: the "Il that' overshadowed, the Pivot, on which still stood the old -house built-,by his girandfather, cut off the prospecta in F          .  k   - A FAMT Y HSTORY'. '1' that direction. The situation of the old house, or-"Perch ' was the finer of the two; but it had not been kept in repair like the house at the Pivot, and the fences and shi'ubbery were falling into neglect. This was now the property 6f Sethl Mettla.; and 'it caused a pang to the old squilre whenever he cast his eyes towards it. But the Pivot was in complete order. The house and barns, the wood and carriage houses, the carriages and farm- tools, were all in perfect repair. The house, in -its internal arrangement, was very like many a' New-England home. It was larger and more pretentious than any other in the vicinity; but it had the same characteristics of plainness, comfort, and convenience. The rooms were large and airy-; and, -plain as was the fiurniture, it was solid, durable, and expensive. The large, high bedsteads of mahogaly, oak, or bird's-eye maple, were furnished with wellrounded ticks of live-geese feathers, overspread with linen white as the newly drifted snow, and blankets of fine mering wool; and there were spare beds for many guests. Hospit"aity was a virtue of the Gomerys; and many a customer had little Diller lost by it.  The breakfast is waiting; and, until the tour of the in- spection of the premises has been completed, Mrs. Gomery takes her place at the head of the table, and falls to musig. sae thinks of the changes in Wirt's - ^appearance since she last saw him.  He was the largest and finlest-looking of her sons and now, just in the prime of life, was as fine a specimen of the -pysical man as ever New England produced.  He was just Six feet one and a half, and with a foru faultlessly: sym- metrical. He had the manly, wholesome  cast of his father; somewhat tempered and softened by the graceful lines of beauty  which he had inherited from his mother. With a feeling of intense pride, his mother now contrasted him in hei mind with the other men of his age whom she knew; and she remembered and was confirnmed in her former im-' pressions, that the children of Freeborn Gomelry were not as the children of other men. There w-as something so n oble and grand about him, that it seemed not for one generation . alone, but to have the power of self-perpetuation. Daringr her revelry, many incidents of her early wifehood occurred to her;, and, the memory of the "great baby ball" recurring to her mind, she smiled as she thought of its ludicrous, scen es  A                ,   -- 164     gM0BRY ,OF MONTGOMERY: and of the part that the infant Walter bore in them. This, again, recalled her thoughts to her poor wandering boy, whom, in hel heart of hearts, she lved above all her clil- dren; and the tears were just rising to her eyes, when she heard the outer door open, and the voice of her liusband calling to his grandson to come in to breakfast. She roused hersefi from her revery forced back the tears, and was ready for the matutinal duties of the table. The breakfast was butt about half over when the serving- maid said that Mr. Diller was at the door. "Show him in here," said the squire; and directly, and before he could get into the room, the little man's voice was heard in the entry-way,- Wel well, square! what do you think now? That thief, that rascal, that frgcr is going- Oh! how do you do, Mr. Wirt? excuse me, I amn glad to see you. Good-nmorning, ma'am. That woodchuck, that musquash, that skunk, is goel to build another tavern just to ruin me, and take off the cus. tom from my house. But he will find it a losin' business, I can tell him; for I will cut down prices, and I'll keep folks for nothifin sooner than have that rascal get their custom." a  ",Why, what is all this you are talking, about?" said the "What! you hain't heard the news? Well, then, I'll tell ye. This thief Mettlar, that stole all your propery, has been stopping at my house; and just because I gin him now and then a piece of my mind, and said he ought to be ii the State Prison, he said he'd forgive me, and then went to work to ruin me. He gives the vacant lot between Gibbs's store and Kidder's shoe-shop, just opposite my tavern, and is goin' to run up a three or four story brick house that will knock the Eagle all to flinders. I won't stand it, square; I won't, I won't; and so I won't!"  But how can you help yourself? He has ten tines the money that you have; and suppose you un opposition, what will you make'.,by it?. It is probably just what he would like. After you have spent all you have ever saved by keeping the Eagle, you can go upon the town; and then you will have the satisfaction of knowing that he must pay taxes for your support." "But what shall I do? He is bound to ruin my house, and spile my business."               '   A FAMLY HSTORY.        165 "Haven't you kept taivern long enough to afford to quit?" asked Wirtimir. "Yo-u were keeping the Eagle as longr ago as I can remember. You must have somethihg pretty hafid- some laid up by this time." "Yes: I suppose, if I could sell out my place for what it is worth, I should have enough to do me and the old woman." "What do you call your property worth; that is, the house, land, and stables, 1 in fact, all but the furniture?" "I have offered to sell for three thousand dollars," "I will give you twenty-eight hundred dollars, and six months' time to close up your business, rent free." "You will?  It's a bargain." "Yes; but there is one condition I must make. You shall say nothing about it till the new house is well along,--till you are about leaving the Eagle. Then just take your mon- ey, buy a small place, live at your ease, and talk with every- body."  "I'l do it. It's just what me and the old woman has been wantin' to do for a long time." So itwas agreed that Wirtimir should buy the old Eagle- Hotel property; that his father should& make out the deed that day, and he would send on the money to pay for it im- mediately on his return home. Diller, it 'was understood, was to keepl on in the hotel as usual till the new: one was well advanced; and then the old house should be'pulled down to make way for a block of brick stores, and Diller should have the superintendence of their building under the old squire, and be paid a regular commission for his services. The little landlord returned home in high glee; and, enter- ing his house, he there met Seth Mettlar and several of his admirers waiting the landlord's return to serve them with some of his newly worked cider, which had been tapped the day before. Entering behind the bar, the little man mounted the small platform, which, for thirty years, had been his rostrum for dis-- pensing grog, and, launching forth his opinions, said, "Mr. Mettlar, you can't have any cider at this house." "How?  Why is this?" spoke up several. "What does this mean?" "It means that this house is no place for rascals and ' thieves; and I don't want none of their' custom. So, Mr. Seth Mettlar, you will just put your mean carcase outside of my door, and never enter it again, if you please." l"   h GOMEEY' ' OF MONTGOMERY : Seth and his friends were so astonished at this outtreak of the fiery little Boniface, that they could answer never asword; and they all left the house, Seth taking the lead. This last act of aggression and insult on the part of Diller greatly scandalized the, friends of the meek and forgiving Mettlar; and-'a meeting of the directors of the new hotel was held the evening of the same day, and measures were taken to commence the work immediately. The next day, mep were set to work to dig the cellar, and the contracts were made for the bricks and lumber for the house; and the! master-builder, who had already made his plans, was duly en-] gaged to superintend the work. - Little Diller took great interest in the new. hotel. 'He would stand in his own door, and talk to the workmen, telling them they were doing -the Devil's work. His sharp, piping i voice could be heard a dozen times a day foretelling all sorts of disaster to the shareholders, and threatening to run an opposition which should render their investment a dead loss. He indulged his vagrant tongue without restraint or remorse in denunciation of Seth, and the silly dupes who had been foolish enough to think they could run an opposition to, the Eagle, and make money by it. Indeed, he was a thorn in the flesh of themr all; and the foundation was not fairly laid before ,the most of Seth's cio-workers wished both him and his hotel to the Devil. When the work was fairly begun, and the contracts made for all the different parts both of the house and stables, Seth informed his loving friends that business would require his attendance in Boston, and that he should be absent for a few months. In view of this afflicting. necessity, he sent a well- expressed note to the new minister, Parson Skeelman, of the All- aint4sChurch, requesting that he might have the prayers of the congregation in his behalf under the sad dispensation that called him to part with, so many beloved brothers and sisters. Parson Skeelman was a most worthy man. His parish- ioners said he was neither so sound in doctrine nor so strong in argument as his predecessor, Elder Millson; but he was a man of peace, and intended to be a strict follower of him he professed to serve. He believed Seth to be a knave and a hypocrite; and, if left to himself, he would have 'avoided mentioning his name, except in condemnation; andj instead   F-AMT,Y HSTORY.. -      -67 of praying that he might prosper in his courses, he would have prayed that he mnight turn from his life of hypocrisy and sin, and restore his ill-gotten gains to their rightful owners. But this would breed a schism in the church,; and the good man could not bear that. There was-no element of discord or strife in his nature; and he told one of his deacons, when Seth was taken into the church, that he feared he would prove a Trojan horse. In his present perplexity, he called on the same deacon and another leading member for advice; and they asked him censoriously, if he had the interests of the church no more at heart than to thihk -of offending, and perhaps driving from them, the man who, above all others, could and would do most to build up Zion. They even hinted to the good mian that he must be tainted with fiee- thinking and infidelity if he did not see -a special providence in the misfortunes that had fallen on Gomery of Montgomery, who was worsenthan an infidel (for hle professed Christianity while he denied its fundamental doctrines), and in giving his property to one of the elect. Tile poor parson could not contend. It was not possible for him to hold his own in controversy; and, the next dray being Sunday, he read the request of the woe-bbgone i Seth, and lmade a  somewhat ambiguous prayerl beseeching the throne of grace that their departing brother might return to them strengthened in faith, and, by good works, be a bhight and shining proof of the divine power and giace. Many were deeply moved at the words of the good pastor; and there was not a dry eye among all the shareholders in the new hotel. As for Seth, he covered his face, like the wife of Bath, to hide the tears he did not shed. The work on the new hotel was pushed ahead with great activity; and on Seth's return, some four or five months later, it was nearly finished. He returned to be present at the opening, whichl was to be a great event in the town,- in tact, Montgomery was famous- for great events, - and to witness the dismay and discomfiture of Diller, and the tri-' umph and reward of- himself and virtue. But what was his astonishmenton his arrival to learn that that bumptious and irascible little man was preparing to rebuild, or at least to greatly repair and enlarge, his house! for he had just moved out-of it, and taken with him the best pkrt -of his furniture, and sold the rest at auction.  i       E  I  t   168     O-OMERY OF MONTGOMERY: Under these circumstances, only a nominal rent coulld be got for the new hotel; and some of the shareholders were even now, before- the house l'was opelled, offering to sell out at a loss. Seth cared little for that, however, if le could only punish the pugnacious Diller, and show the world that he-bore a heavy hand that was powerful to destroy. The house might pay rent big or little;, but people must learn that he was the man "of power in the place, and th:At they would show him, any want of respect or deference at their peril. The good man's plan for effe'ctingthis consummation worked badly; for, the next week, men were set to work by Diller to tear down the old house which had so long been a land- mark for travellers., The Eagle Hotel, under Diller's manage- ment, had long been a- credit to the place; and people saw with regret the relentless hand of improvement engaged in its destruction. As for Diller and his wife, they;woil lnot stay to witness it;. but, before the work of demolition be- gan, they started off to visit some relatives living some thirty miles distant,.and did not corpe back till it was razed to the ground. Before his returtn, Seth had the farther consolationa of knowing' that he did not intend to rebuild hbs house, and that, therefore, the new llhotel had been leased for five years for one-fifth the rent it would readily command. Insteadc of rebuilding the Eagle, Diller now told everybody he was goina to put up a row of brick stores; cand it was soon known that. he had made a contract to that effect with a master-builder, and advanced one-half the money to pay the cost of them, the other half to be paid on the completion of the building.  Seth groaned in spirit at these signs of Diller's prosperity; and, on meeting with Parson Skeelman, he told him, that notwithstandingall he had done for that people, and espe- cially the church, he did not seem to be apprecieatecd as he ought to be, and that his trials 'and sorrows were heavy, ,and grievous to be borne. He therefore hopecl, that, for his spe- cial edification and consolation, he would, on the next Sunday, preach from the words, L"Whom the Lo6rd loveth, him he chasteneth." The good parson'-he was a good man, if ever there lived one; I knew' him well --saw that Seth "was afflicted at the impotence of his own malice; but, neverthe- less, he promised comnpliance, and, without 'consulting any   A FAMLY HSTORY.         169 one, prepared a sermon which was very different from awhat Seth had wanted. Inclined as he was to peace, he felt it would be sinful and cowardly not to rebuke such hypocrisy and malice; and he nerved himselfto the work. He began by citing Job -- a perfect and upright man, one that feared God, and eschewed evil"- as an illustration of the text; and after dwelling at length on the Lord's dealings with him, and drawing therefrom-the moral that men should first do their duty in all things, and then, like Job, trust in entire confidence in the Lord, he said that he could illustrate his idea further by an illustration of their own times, and from their own neighborhood. Seth's eye brightened at this; and he stealthily looked around to, see if people were not all looking towards him as the modern Job. But his pride arid vanity were destined to a spe'edy fall. The familiar illus- tration was not himself, but Gomery of Montgomery. Many others besides Seth were startled at the allusion to a man, who- was not of their own faith, as one whomithe Lord loved. It had been the fashion and cant of this church to speak of Gomery's misfortunes as a punishment for his unbelief: "But here," aid the bold parson, "is a man living among us whom we all feel and think to be in error; who in faith and doc- trine is not with us, nor of us; and whose creed is the device 'of the enemy of souls: and yet what a rebuke are the ways of this man to many of those here before me who have been born into the new life! His voice is ever cheerful, and his face ever serene; for all he has a kind word, and to the poor: his hand is always open.  He never repines at his lot; his heart never frets against the Lord. He returns not railing for railing, nor treasures up the memory of ingratitude. Nays outwardly, during a long life, not even his bitterest enemy can deny, but that, like Job, he has not sinned, nor charged. -God foolishy. And, if the righteous scarcely be saved, how shall the ungodly and signer appear? If he is to be cut off, how shall it fare with you. who are given to slander and envy, and all manner of uncharitableness? Faith without works is dead.  How, then, do ye expect to enter the king- dom of the blessed, when your religion is but a cloak to sin, and your lives an insult to the blessed Saviour whom ye pro- fess to serve?" The boldness of this onslaught on the members of the church for a time disarmed criticism. Pe6ple felt its just- VOL. II.   -  15  :?        I   170       GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY:           \ ness, and were rebuked; and Seth saw that he had gone too far in trying to make the whole church a party to his own malice. He was greatly comforted, however, soon after, on learning that Diller was not acting on his own account, but as the agent of Wirt Gomery; for, much as he disliked the Gomerys, little Diller had been,such a constant annoyance to him, that he both feared and hated him above all the world /besides. In time, however, he so far rallied the mem- bers of the church, that Parson Skeelman was arraigned -for the obnoxious senmonj of six months before. But other events are Pow culminating fast; and perhaps, before the good 'parson is offered up 'as a sacrifice: to the vindictive ma lignity of Seth Mettlar, something may occur, to avert his\  punishment.              .   A FAMT,LY HSTORY         171 "The bridegrooms doors'are opened Wide, And I am next of kinl  The guests are met, the feast is set: Mayst hear the merry din.' - COLERIDGE. THE  delays and months go by, the winter has passed, and the summer has come; but' no word of cheer has reached the house of Gomery of Montgomery. No word from Walter comes to gladden his mother's heart; and age, which she has so long defied, is beginning to tell on -her form and features The old squire, too, is no longer the man of former times. He still bears a stout heart in his intercourse with the world; but his restless eye and  abstracted manner still show that grief is doing its work.  The sympathy and attentions of Milends seem  no longer welcome: a great sorrow that none but themselves can comprehend has made a   great gulf be- tween them  and  their neighbors. People feel that their condolences are but a mockery of woe, and keep aloof. The Pivot is isolated- from the village, and is regarded with a sort of sacred awe.   Friends and enemies alike respect the grief that now reigns there.   . Except Seth"Mettlar. The clouds and darkness that are settling on the heads of Gomery and his wife in their declin- ing years are welcome to this night-bird of fortune. While darkness has gathered around the Pivot, he has waxed strong and confident in his prosperity and success. He  is to be married to  HeSter Homer!  When    1;G. Gomery returned to the, house of Thomas Ho- me; the second day after her interview/with Hester at the Pivot, she entered with the same air of confidence and right as on t he day before. - in the parlor she met Homer, who was sitting' silent and sad, the very picture of despair. "( How is this?  " -said she. , Hester is no worse? '   172      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: The poor man burst into tears, and left the room; and, at the same moment, his hopeful son Obedc limped in, with an air of saucy assurance that more than answered her ques- tion. "How is Hester?" inquired she, with a look in which anxiety and contempt were strangely blended. "She is very sick," said Obed, approaching the fire, and seizing the tongs, but not venturing to raise his eyes. Poor child! I will go and see her," said she, moving towards the door that led to her room. "She is not able to see any one to-day," said he, as, with a hop, skip, and a jutmp, he sprang between her and the door. - "What!" exclaimed the indignant woman: "can't see me! She will, I think;" and she brushed past the cowed wretch, who shrank back beneath her indignant glance, and rudely opened the door. At the same moment, she con-' fronted the mother -of Hester, who, with finger to her lip, motioned silence, and said, "Hush! Hester can see nobody." "-Not see me!"  "She must have quiet. We are very anxious about her; and we all think it -best she shall see no company at pres- ent." "I must -and I will see her! s She is mine, my child, the plighted wife of my boy, and I will see her!" Obed, who by this time had rallied, now stepped up, and said, "Mrs. Gomery, this is not your house; and you cannot see my sister. We all think she will be be better without your visits." Bewildered and astonished, Mrs. Gomery cast her eyes through, the door, and towards the stairs that' led to Hes- ter's room, and caught a glimpse of the head and spectacles of Seth Mettlar, at the instant they bobbed back to escape her glance. At once she comprehended the whole plot,- that it had been arranged that she should not see Hester; and proud woman that she was, and accustomed to have her own will and way, she now saw she could only submit. For an instant, fierce anger lit up her face; then tears rose to her eyes; and, raising her handkerchief to her face, she-sobbed aloud, turned, and left the house.         i More sad and despondent than she had ever been, Mrs Gomery took the trail back to the Pivot that had been worn by the dear feet of her lost Walter. ( Though it was broad ,           .   ;r    A FAMLY HSTORY.         173 day, yet she could hardly see the path; and crushed, helpless,  and well-nigh heart-broken, she slowly retraced her steps across the fields, and through the belt of woods between the ungrateful threshold and her own house. Her only wish was that Walter would return; and then, she doubted not, some means would be found to free Hester from the con- straint that had been put upon her. Of course, she was no party to theinsult that had been offered her: but Mrs. Gom- ery knew full well how yielding and gentle she was in her- disposition; how she had borne without complaint, for her life long, the tyranny of her morose, exacting brother, and would, to draw the least expression of kindness from him, concede any cherished pleasure or anticipated enjoyment. She might die. "Ah, well!" she thought: " there might be a worse fate than that. To die,--why, all must die :- but to be driven to a living death; to be the compelled wife of Seth Mettlar, a repulsive, crawling reptile, whose very sight is enough to make the blood curdle and the flesh creep, -it is a refinement of torture; and it will kill poor Hester, and the sooner the better." After this, Mrs. Gomery went out less than ever. The old squire used to' move about as usual among people; but it T vas clear to all that something else had affected him more se- riously than the loss of his-property. No one could see, when' that was first taken from him, that he was affected by it in the least; for his jokes were as piquant, his face as cheerful, and his voice and laugh as loud a id sonorous, as ever. But now, though he never complained, it was evident that deep sorrow was gnawing at his heart-strings. Seth Mettiar heard these rumors, and chuckled with delight.  Hester Homer too, it was said, had recovered from her sickness, and was more beautiful than ever before. Seth was now a constant visitor at the" house: and it was soon announced that Hester and Bher mother, and the reformed and affectionate Obed- edoin, were going on a visit to Boston; and the latter in- formed his friends that their object was to make the neces- sary purchases preliminary to his sister's wedding. Seth was to follow soon -after, and, as, soon as he could, make his ar- rangements- for building a new house on the site of his cot- tage, which was to be finier than any thing ever seen in Mont-  gomery.. Some people said that Hester Homer was greatly changed   e 15*    !17      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: from her former self. Her old schoolmates said she did not seem to be the same person. She had always been a great favorite among the young girls of the village; for combined  with her gentleness of disposition were great vivacity, and the faculty of throwing herself into the sports of youth, so as to make all lively and cheerfull around her. But the few tlhat saw her now said she never talked to them of her vil- lage companions; never made. any allusion to those town affairs that make up the senseless chatter of village school- girls; but she talked of the fine things she was to have,-- the fine house, the rich furniture, and handsome carriage. But she never laughed or smiled as in former days, and, never seemed to care for any of those things in which she once took an interest. Thomas' Homer saw the changes going on in his own household with, great sorrow. But he was past the power of resistance. His thankless ingrate of a son had attained a complete control over him. He one day met Gomery of Montgomery, and detained him to assure him that he had no hand or part in the acts of his family. "/I know that full well,f said Gomery. "It can only end in shame and sorrow," continued Homer; "and I wish I were dead, so as not to witness the end of it.' Seth, having made his arrangements to have his house fin- r ished in, the autumn, followed the Homers to Boston, where he was warmly congratulated on his great good/fortune. He  was-now exultant in his Wride; and, in company with his betrothed, he paraded daily up and down the most fiequented streets of Boston, that his ld acquaintances might see, won- der,' and admire. It was on this occasion that Hester created the great impression of which Deacon Giles spoke in his long eulogium on Seth Mettlar, given at the city tavern for the purpose of confounding Joe Pumpagin. The summer months are past, and the Indian summer of autumn has given way to the frosty nights of Nov/ember. The forest-leaves, yellow and red, are fast falling before ,the rustling winds, that'go sighing among the trees, as it were, wailing at their own havoc.- The farmer is busy gathering in his latest crops. The boys shiver at their work in the potato-field'; and the girls are busy in peeling and cutting apples for drying-from the sales of which are to come their side-combs, ribbons, and new school-books. The creaking   A. A FAMTLY HSTOReY,       175 of the cider-mill can be heard early and late; mnd corn- huskings and apple-bees are the -diversions of the season. The cattle, as night approaches, gather round the barn, and stand curled up and shivering under the lea wall. The milch- cows contract their udders, and give less milk; and the hens refuse their eggs. But the first snow has not yet fallen; and the frost, as yqt, has only been sufficient to kill the vines and potato-tops. At this season,'the roads are in fine condition; and the tradesmen are getting in their stocks of dry-goods and gro- ceries for the winter. But, besides the teams loaded with goods for the village-stores, several come to Montgomery with household furniture of rich and expensive quality and pattern. These all go straight to the scarcely finished housie of Seth Mettlar, where a Boston :,upholsterer is engaged in arranging and disposing every thing according to the taste  of the times. Every thing is prepared for the grand wed- ding. It is arranged that it shall take place at the house of the bride's father; that the happy pair shall adjourn to their own elegant mansion in the afternoon; and that a grand I entertainment shall be given in the evening, which" shall combine the double purpose of d house-warming and a wed- ding-party. But there was a slight derangement in carrying out this programme, of which the Gomerys, of course, had the credit, probably justly so; for it is certain, that, the day before, Squire Gomery was seen to enter the house of Par- son Skeelman. It was taken for granted that the good minister, to whose teachings both Hester and her mother had been wont to listen aever since good old Elder Millson had been consigned to the churchyard, would officiate on this interesting- occa- sion. This had been assumed as a matter of course; but from some inadvertence, or from the supposition that it was: not necessary, nothing was said to the good man till the morn- ing of the wedding-day. But the omission was thought of early in the morning; and it was arranged, that, about an hour before the appointed time, Obed should drive up in, his light wagon, and bring him down to the house. The-hour appointed for the ceremony was ten o'clock; and, at a little past nine, the bris-klittle turn-out of Obededom Homer drove through the village, and was followed by many eyes till ,it turned up at the parsonage, Obed, as he reined up to the pasoag, -  d as he rein   , 76     GOMERY- OF MONTGOMERY:  house- was surprised at not seeing the parsonat his doorway, dressed in his Sunday's best, and ready to accompany him. There was nobody in sight about the house; and so he was obliged to get out of his carriage, and hitch his horse. He then limped up to the door, and knocked. He was answered by the parson's daughter, a girl of eight or nine years. "Is your father in?" said he. "Yes, sir: hhe is in his room." "Tell him I am waiting for him." The girl ran away to deliver this message, and, returning, said, "Pa says, ' Please come in."'  Obed followed his guide into 'the study of the minister, and found him sitting by his table in his morning-gown. "What! not ready yet?" said Obededom. "It is past nine o'clock; and the wedding is to be at ten. We shall be late if we don't hurry."        i -  "It is rather a short notice," said the minister calmly. "However, that makes no difference: I shall not officiate at your sister's wedding.." "Not officiate! Why, what does this mean? You must: we can't get along without you. Why, Elder Skeelman, you \ must bed crazy! What will folks say?" \ -"What folks may say it matters very little; but what my: conscience says is very important. It bears a great weight of guilt already for allowing this thing to go so far without protest and' remonstrance; but I will not assist at a human sacrifice." Obed stood ,confounded and dumfounded by the words and manner of the minister; and, at first, could only repeat the word "Sacrifice." "Sacrifice, I say!!" continued the minister. "Your sister has been sacrificed to your own cruel selfishness and malice. I! regard you as the most unnatural brother I ever saw. You must see that the result of this union will be a protracted misery, to be relieved only by the death of the victim." Obed, who by this time had regained his wonted assurance, could contain himself no longer, but broke out, "Why, you talk like- an old fool! You, a minister of thp gospel, -think there is nobody but them miserable infidels of the Gomerys! But we'll let you know that Seth Mettlar can just give ten rods in the race, and yet beat any Gomery that-ever rid a horse." With this outhurst, that was repented of as soon as f   A FAMLY HSTORY.        17.7 tuttered, Obed turned to leave: but then the thought oc- cttrred that the wedding could not: go on without some-one to perform the ceremony; and his base nature changed at once from defiance to suppllcation. "I beg pardon," said-he: "I do, indeed. I hope you will excuse me. Now, do come! We can't get along without you. There's nobody else we'd ever th]ink of having, except you. Of course, we can't think of getting old Squire Gomery for this job-; and my mother, would never think of having that heathen infidel of a preacher to mar y her daughter that the Gomery tribe are trying to build a church for. And then, you know, Mr. Mettlar couldn't bear that; for he hates them infidels as bad as you do. Come, now; come! You must come; and you shall b&- well paid for it."  "You have, Iad my answer," said the minister. "All the money ever stolen by your intended brother-in-law could not induce me to perform this ceremony." "You old cur! you shall smart for this!" said Obed, slam- 'ming the door, and hobbling out of the house. His horse was quickly untied; and, jumping into the wagon, he drove rapidly back to his father's house; the people staring and wondering at seeing him, at such a time, drive so excitedly and furiously through the town.        ,     '. He drove rapidly home; and great was the consternation caused as he was -seen to drive up alone. "The feast was set, the guests were met;" and all was ready for the cere- mony as soon as the minister should arrive. A few of the more intimate and favored firiends of Vthe family were to be present at the marriage; while the great multitude. of ac- quaintances were expected at the house-warming in the evening. A brief conference was held between Obed and Seth; and the latter soon returned to say that Mr. Skeelman could not come, and therefore the ceremony must be postponed till Obed could ride ,to Tivernet, and bring over the Rev. Mr. Furbish. Three hours must elapse before the Tivernet minister could arrive; and a long and' wearisome three hours they were. As yet, the bride had not been seen; nor did she show her- self till the weary hours had passed away, and her brother ihad returned, bringing at last the indispensable parson. No   178      GOMERY OF MTONTGO-MERYn : time was now lost:, Hester was led into the room by Seth; and, taking their p1laces, Elder Furbish, in about seven min. utes by the watch, pronounced them man and wife. ' Did you ever sere anybody so beautiful as Hester was? said tAnn Stickney to Maria Carlton as they stood together eating wedding-cake after the ceremony was olver. "I never did, Ann," replied the other. "Wasn't that a hb ndsome dress? And such e:r-rings!- my eyes! Miss Homer told mother they cost two hulndred dollars!" '; You don't say! But didn't she act queer? I never seen a woman stand up to be married in thalt way before, -just as thlough she didn't care any thing about it. Why, when Lucy Tuttle was married, she looked as though she was skered half to death. But Hester she didn't even look at the minister, but kept looking out of the window, as if she was thinking of somiething else; and then, when the minister asked her if she took that man for her wedded husband, she didn't hear him the first time, nor the second either till Mr. "Mettlar pulled her arm, and her mother spoke up, and said, Hester! 'and she said, 'Yes.' Wasn't it queel'?" "I think she ought to have been ashamed; just afs if she ididn't care a bitfor her husband,and when he has given her , such lots of fine things, and she is to have the best house in MAntgomery! Pshaw! she is thinking of that Walter Gom- elry. I wish I was in her place; that's all: the Gomerys might all go to grass."                   , Here' 'this conversation was interrupted, and was not re- newed by the same parties; but something like it passed be- tween several coteries during the time that intervened before the guests departed-for home to be ready for the grand evening party that Was to be held at a later hour in the new ]bouse that was to be the home of the happy pair. But the wedding-party, after all the expensive preparations, was not a success. Few people besides those who had been 'at the wedding-ceremony were present; and those few were either not residents of the village, or else of that questionable position, that their attendance was a doubtful compliment. Parson Skeelman's obstinacyhad been the town-talk of the day; and many people, who, in the morning, had intended to be present in the evening, asked themselves, if, by their attendance, they would give countenance to what he had   A FAMLY HSTORY.          179 denounced as a "human sacrifice." Probably there was more self-examination and self-condemnation among the good peo- ple of Montgomery that day than ever before. The result of it was, few attended the wedding-party; but all who did attend concurred in saying they had never seen any thing so fair as the bride on that her wedding-eve.   *  /     .  ' ^   180       GOMEBRY OF MONTGOMERY: CHAPTER Xi).  Leave untended the herd, The flock without shelter; Leave the corpse uninterred  ,  The bride at the altar; Leave the deer, leave the steer, Leave nets and barges; Come with your fighting gear Broadswords and targes." - SCOTT. THROUGH the State of Georgiia flows a river called the Al- tamaha. It is a noble river, deep enough and broad enough to accommodate a merchant-fleet many times larger than has ever yet been required by the people who dwell in its valley. At the time to which this history has arrived, the section of country which it drains was far less populous than it has since become; and where there was -then one steamboat of slight proportions and moderate speed, now ply back and forth the strong tug, ithe swift and elegant passenger-boat, and the freight-bearing propeller, - this last, however, before the great 'Rebellion. Some thirty miles-from the mouth of this river, on its left bank, stands the town, now city, which, though not, so laid down on the map, we will call Lancaster. At that time, it contained about ten thousand people, and was one of the most flourishing'places in the State. It was so near the sea, that schooners, brigs, sloops, and even small barks, could reach it, favored by a south-wind, with little difficulty. These vessels were accustomed to bring assorted cargoes of pro- visions and manufactures from the North, and: return laden with cotton, rice, and sometimes tar and pitch, turpentine, hemp, and tobaccoi that had come down a long distance fi'om the interior. Owing to its peculiar situation, the entire trade of this place was with the North, and none of it with Europe, Small vessels, well adapted .for the coasting-trade, could easily ascend the river; but large ships, suitable to cross the Atlantic, could not come within twenty miles of the town. Hence the trade was all forced to the North; and the result   A FAMLY HSTORY.     "    81 was, that very close business relations were established* with the Northern cities; and all sorts of coasting-craft used to come and go, with little renlark or attention as to their objects or business. The public mind of the South had not at that time been educated up to the point of iegarding their pecu- liar practice as a divine institution; and the people were not so jealous as they afterwards became- of having the pillars of their faiith sapped by fanatics and intruders. But the light was fast breaking in upon them. Between this city and Philadelphia, there had long been plying a regular coaster, named the, GoodIntent." She was a Maine-built schooner; trim, tidy, and fleet, and was owned in good part by her skipper, who had made many voyages in elr from port to port, with varying sucess, but with the total result that he had secured a moderate competency to himself apart from  and independent of the schooner. For the last three years, there had been employed, as cook and steward of the "Good Intent," a jet-black negro named Lem Woolsey. He was never called Lem, however, nor WYoolsey, but always Linsey, or Linsey Woolsey.  He was a stout burly fellow, the very impersonation of African good-nature and contentment, with a face as black and shiny as a black bottle, and as redo- lent of happiness as any son of Ham that ever experienced the curse of his progenitor. , Now,: it chanced that the Good Intent" was lying at a wharf in Philadelphia at the tine that Walter Gomery was stopping there on his way he knew not whither. In the un- certainty of his future, it may well-be believed that his mind ^was anxious and active. Though be lodged in one of the best houses in the most exclusive part of the city, and had met with a welcome that strongly appealed to him to-give up his romantic idea of achieving his fortune independent of ftmily aid, he was still firm in his purpose; and the difficulties that he now clearly perceived were before him kept his mind in a  whirlwind of plans and schemes that rendered his sleep fitfuli and unrefreshing, and caused him to welcome the day- light that dispelled in a measure the feverish perplexities of the night. Long before the family of his brother-in-law were stirring, he had, during his stay with them, risen, and gone forth to walk off the troubles of the mind by the exercise of the body. Naturally he sought those parts of the city where men were most astir at that early hour; and the wharves and VOL. II. ,    16   GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: markets became his usual resorts.' He was inquisitive and curious with every onfhhe met that seemed inclined to talk with him ; and he questioned and arg ed with a view of elicit: ing information that should determine his course. Now, it lhappened that one morning, when Walter was strolling about in search of something to direct his course, he came to a wharf alongside of which the " Good Intent," was lying,. As he stood -tilere, looking at the shipping, and debat- ing in his mind whether he had not better, after all, ship as X green hand before the mast for a long voyage, he [overheard Capt. Dykes of the " Good Intent," who was standing on the wharf within a few feet of him, talking to a seedy-looking: young man who was higgling with him for a passage to the Altamaha.       - " Can't think of taking you for less than ten dollars, money  or no money," said the 'skipper. c "But I haven't got so much," said the youth , I have only got four dollars left. I rill give you that, and work for the balance of the passage-money." " Work! a pretty hand you will be to work after we have been four hours out of port: why, you will be so sea-sick, you will want a nurse and doctor to look after you. You remind me of the man that got the monkeys to pick cotton. Them cussed critters were so spry, he allowed that one monkey would pick as much cotton as ten niggers; and, when-he come to try it, he found it took ten niggers to watch one mofikey: and so you, when you get out to sea, instead of helping the hanids, will want half the crew to help you. But hark you: if you will pay what you can in cash, and agree to work for mne four days, unloading, after we get there, or one day here and three there, I will take you. I don't like to leave a poor devil who wants to get home.           , .  I'll work the four days after I get there," said the yo/uth. 4c When shall I come-on board ?" " To-day. i We shall clear this evening. You can come on board and get your breakfast now in a few; minutes, and live With us to-day if our grub is not too hard for you." At this moment, the captainturned to look to some fireight Shat was going on board the schooner; and Walter, who had bheard the above conversation, approached the young man, and asked him to what port that schooner was going.  " To Lancastel; Ga., on the Altamaha."   - You have been theie, then, before ?" " Oh, yes! that is where I was born; or about forty miles fiom there, up the river.  My father lives there, and has got a bully plantation, and lots of niggers; and, if I ever get back there, you'll never catch me North again. I come on;,, here three, months ago to study medicine; but the mean Yankees up there to the colleges told pe I didn't know enough to begin to study medicine, and so I went on a big sprete, aprd spent all my money. Then I writ to the old gov- ernor for more; and the old cuss writ back, that, if I had spent the fifteen hudclred dollars he give me to start on, I might go without, or else work for more. So y6u see, stran- ger, I'ye got to get back as I can. But I have come it right smart on the cap'n  of the skuner here. Fm -to work for him after I get there, and pay for my passage; but let me once set my foot on the soil of Georgia, and get once more among gentlemen and men of honor, and it's small work I shall do for him." "You don't intend cheating him out of youir passage, do you ? "> "Stranger, if you were down in our part of the country, it wouldn't be healthy for you to talk about 'cheating to a gentleman. We never allow anybody to reflect on our honor. Why, there was Jim Wiggle, he shot Dan Limpkin for saying he didn't think it was righ- for him to gamble off i- the money that belonged to the Widow TomplinSon; and Jim said it was a reflection on his honor, and shot him, and everybody said he did right.    "      ' " It must be a pleasant country to live in! What chance is there for a man to do any thing for himself if he is with- out capital ?"          . Stranger, you may be an honest man, and a human; but, if you don't know that the Valley of the Altamaha beats all the rest of creation, your ignorance is right smart. The peo- ple there is all rich; and nobody works except the niggers, and half of them does powerfullittle." :' Well," mused Walter to himself, < if that is the way they do, and money is so easy to get, perhaps a man of education, who is willing to work, can at least maike a living. - Captain," said he to the skipper, who by this ti-ne was unoccupied, and had returned to talk with his newly engaged passenger,-- "captain, what will you charge to take me to Georgia?"     184   ,   GOMEnY OF MONTGOMERY: You!" said the captain, surveying him with a look of surprise of "you! I shall charge you twenty dollars." "Wbhy charge me more than him?" "Because a man with such clothes on don't need to travel on such -a schooner as mine; and he will be very particular about his victuals. But then, if you are sea-sick (as of course you will be), it won't make much difference; for we will be there, by the time you are so as to stow away your allowance." "When do)you sail? "To-morrow morlning, at daylight;" "Let me see your accommodations." The three then went on board; and Walter engaged his passage, paying the required sum of twenty dollars, thinking no worse of the skipper for charging extra-on account of his good clothes. It was a week and a day after this that the "Good Intent" was made fast to the miserable skeleton wharf belonging to the corporation of Lancaster. She had come up the river in  * the night under, a strong breeze from the south, and, before daylight, was ready for discharging. The passenger with the nice sense of l-onor, who had agreed to work at the end of the voyage in payment of his passage, was not to be found when daylight appeared; and it was surmised by the mate that he had fallen ove!board, as- no man of such high-toned principles would think of sneak- ing off without bidding his shipmates good-by. Walter, however, said he had pilobably gone ashore to get money to pay the interest on the ten dollars he borrowed from him the dlay before.   - During the passage, Walter had ingratiated himself into i the good graces of Capt. Dykes; and without giving him any account of his family -connections, or the somewhat Quixotic idea that had sent him forth among strangers, he told him, that, like thousands of others of the sons of New England, he had set forth to 'seek his fortune by his own wits and labors. The captain told ;him to stay on board the  schooner as long as he liked, and take his meals with him. This offer he improved for two or three days, spending his . time mostly on shore looking for something to do. Lancaster, as has been said, was a town of some ten thou- l   -   , -   \ I I    '    . - A IAMLY HSTON,.       185 sand inhabitants, besides which it was the-shire-town of the county, Thle court was then;in session; and Walter strayed into the court-room to see how law and justice were here ad- ' inistered. He had on several occasions attended court with his father in his native county; and, though he had - seen painfiul exhibitions of ignorance by men calling them- selves lawyers, lihe had never before witnessed any thing so gross as here met his view. He now deeply lamented his lailure to pass his examination at home; for he fancied that if men so illiterate, so merciless to Lindlay Murray, and so prone to mix up the dialect of the negro with the language of Shakspeare and Milton, could get practice, he might also succeed,       A  ,  But, besides never having been admitted to the bar, he had never learned the forms and details of practice;- and hence his knowledge of the principles of the law must all go for nothing. What, then, could he do? and why had he come to a country like this? He heard that an overseer was wanted on a plantation a few miles up the river; the last one having been killed by a slave, a few days before. But he did not understand the business of overseeing negroes; and, besides, he. had a prejudice against it. His education had been so defective, that he coutld not regard-the occupation of slave-driving as altogether respectable and elevating. This defect in the system of education in the institutions of learn- ing at the North, was subsequently, to a great extent, re- moved through the pious and patriotic exertions of various eminent divines, including bishops, college presidents, and professors, whose labors to present the South-side view of slaveiy in its most lovely aspects were so entirely suce cessful, that those who doubted its divine character, and its humanxzing and refining tendency,; came to be regarded as fanatics, as men. of one idea, utterly unfit to take part in-the administration of the Oovernment, and undeserving of social influence and respect. After casting about for several days, finding nothing at all congenial to his tastes, he- at length heard of an opening that he believed he- could- fill aceeptably. A few miles up the river from Lancaster, a-sort of private academy, of a character quite exceptional in that country, had 'been kept up- for severali years. The late teacher (or professor, as he was called) had just'married a rich widow twenty: years   . 16*    186      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: older than himself, with a large plantation well stocked iith slaves and other cattle. This necessitated the giving-up 6of his school; and so it came about that there was a vacancy, and. an eligible situation for any young man competent for the place. The school had long enjoyed a good reputation, notwithstanding that the last teacher had disappointed his patrons. But love and plantations are prone to play sad havoc with schoolmasters. Walter applied for the situation; and, producing his col- lege diploma, was at once engaged at a salary of four hun- dred dollars a year. This school was a private affair, and supported by a few wealthy families, whose plantations were so situated, that, though the estates were large, the houses were all so near to each other, that, from a given centre, they would all be in- cluded in a radius of two and a half miles. They all com- manded a view of the Altamaha, though situated at dis- tances more or less remote from its banks. The boundaries between the plantations seem to have been set by Nature, as, from the high range of hills that stretches along in a zig- zag course nearly parallel with the river, descend numerous rivulets, that, uniting as, they course their way between the spurs which jut out from the mountain-range, form, as they descend into the plain, large brooks, so deep and broad be- fore discharging into the Altamaha, that long and substantial bridges are required to span them. These brooks form the boundaries of those plantations next to the river; and others farther back lie between the different forks, that, united, make up the, larger streams: yet the whole is so situated withal, that eight plantations (two of them very large, and none of them smalD have their family mansions within a short radius of two and a half miles. At the central point, and at a place called the "Grove," had been erected a cheap building, which was called the '"College" by the people in the vicini- ty, but which Walter told them would be Icalled a school- house in New England, and a poor one at that. To keep up this school, the proprietors of the different plantations had paid, for some years, the sum of fifty dollars each;' and the privilege was accorded to the professor to receive' other pupils on tuition, if none of the corporation objected: sh that his income for the Bear usually amounted to seven hundred dollars or more.  i. . .   A FAMLY HSTORY,       .187 The families who composed the corporation, as people called those privileged ones that had a college of their own, were all of the most respectable and aristocratic char- acter; and the neighborhood of the Grove, which'they folmed, was regarded as more exclusive and select than any other within a hundred miles of Lancaster. Their college had given their young people a precedence over the children of the other neighborhoods; and though/the patriarchs of ,the plantations often qua!relled on other subjects, like the people of less-favored sections, and on politics and religion were as uncharitable and intolerant as the most orthodox, yet on the subject of keeping up the school on a liberaI basis, so that no man's politics or creed should have the preference, their "unanimity was wonderful." The school gave them all the advantages of private tutors, at a moiety of the expense, and without that encumbrance in the respective families. The boys had the stimulus of emulation, and there was less danger that the girls would fall in love with the Yankee schoolmaster. The most influential man of this favored neighborhood was also the richest; and it was owing to his influence that the college had been originally established.. He was known as Col. Kingsbury. At the time Walter was engaged as teach- elr his oldest son was partly fitted for college; and a most amiable aind-exemplary youth he was. There were two young- er brothers besides, and a little girl,- the -youngest of all, 'who was the pet and joy of the house. It was, take it all in all, a most interesting family. The head of, it was, in the best sense of that oft-perverted expression, "a high-toned Southern gentleman." He had strong prejudices, it is true, against innovation; and was of that numerous and respec- table class that is unwilling to believe that any thing new can be otherwise than evil. But he was a just man, and of vastly superior intelligence to any of his neighbors; and, as it is a well-established fact that light and prejudice do not dwell harmoniously together in the same, tenement, he was more liberal ,and tolerant than those who, in their extreme ignorance, knew they were right. His wife was admitted by all her acquaintances to be a pattern housekeeper, but wanting in that dignity peculiar to ladies of Southern birth.; She would look to her own household, and, if things went wrong in-doors, would take the blame to herself instead of sending' iI          t    188      GOMERY. OF MONTGOMERY : her maid-servants to the quarters to be whipped. She had come South nineteen years before to serve as a governess ini the family of her husband's father, and had brought many ideas of thrift with her that were quite unknown to her neighbors.  This good woman suggested that the teacher of the school should' come and live in the family; and thus, while lessening his- expenses, he would be able to act as a sort of private tutor to the younger children, teaching them their elementary branches'at the same-time that he would be of assistance out of school-hours to the elder ones. This arrangement seemed to please all, and was finally adopted; and Walter found' himself comfortably domiciled in the Kingsbury mansion, with a comfortable room to himself, and among people who. showed Sim respect. and confidence. His prospects were now brighter than he had ever hoped for; his employment was not distasteful. to him; and he determined to be an independ- ent: man, and work out his' own fortiune, unaided by his worldly-wise brothers, who had always laughed at his roman- tic ideas and impractical theories.  Why should he not be a teacher? Why not spend his life in that useful employment? He could soon accumulate a few hundred dollars, and return North, and bring back with him one who would be but too happy to share with him so humble and so useful a lot. Such a life would allow him to indulge in his favorite studies :and theories, and would afford- him time to write his great book. Thus elated with! his prospects, he wrote his first letter home, enclosing in it one to Hester. For: some reason unknown, that letter never reached its address.  As a teacher, Walter's experience *as more agreeable than he had reason .to or did anticipate; His oldest pupil was George Kingsbury; and he was butfsixteen. An older set, who had made difficulty; with the former professor, had left the college a year before; and his scholars were too young to set up a new standard of rebellion. Besides, his manner was more calculated to excite emulation- than opposition. He :piqued their curiosity by suggesting and aiguing various propositions and problems, always having as a substratum of his theories and ideas the absolute and eternal A right, that, in his own college-days, he had relied upon to con" I .I   A FAMLY HSTORY.        189 found' the professors, and win marks of demerit. .The conse-. quence was, that lie soon found his Own pupils arguing with their parents variouls abstruse and home-reaching questions, some of which involved the justice of that institution which statesmen and clergymen were just beginning to teach was of divine origin. This provoked inquiry from the parents; but they could never learn of an idea advanced by the teacher to .which they did not, to the fullest extent, assent. Yet they found heresy in their midst,--fanatical, damnable, abolition heresy; and how to account for it they did not know, except on the hypothesis that the Southern blood was degenerating. Surely they could take no blame to themselves for this. Though they had been taught by their parents that slavery was. an evil, a sin, and a curse, yet theyl had grown wiser in their generation, and taught their children that it *was of divine right, ordained of Providence to exalt the master, and redeem and Christianize the lost children of Ham. Yet, for all that, they found a dangerous heresy making its way i among them, and they regarded -it as an infliction -sent by l Providence; and, instead of taking it as one of the judgments against the wicked, they comforted themselves, as Seth Mettlar was doing about the same time far away from there, with the text, "W homr the Lord loveth, him he chastenether' Now, while Walter Gomery was thus engaged in instructing the youth of this neighborhood in the elementary bxranches- of knowledge, from simple addition to differential qalculus, 'and from reading the 1"National Reader" to translating Homer, the schooner "Good Intent-" was still plying between Lan- . caster and Philadelphia, and Oapt. Dykes still held his old position as skipper. He and Walter continued fast friends; ' and, every time he came up the river, he went out to the Kingsbury Plantation to visith his former passenger. He found his visits there not only agreeable, but :profitable; for he was able to malke "several good bargains with the planters to ship their produce direct, and thus save the com- missions and brokerage to his own pocket; and, if an advance was wanted by the always-in-debt rich planter, he could strain a point, double his profit, and make it. A true Yankee was Capt. Dykes, shrewd at a bargain, and exact in the execu- tion of its terms.  Six months passed away, and Walter received no answer to his letters, This caused him great uneasiness; ^but theni-   190      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERRY  the mails were not so prompt and regular in those days as they became afterwards. Perhaps his letters had Xlevel reached Montgomery; oe- if they had, the answers, might have miscarried. So he wrote again direct to Hester; and the fate of that letter we have already seen, and the dispo- sition made of it by her brother at the instigation of Seth Mettlar, Thus it came about, that, from the failure of those two letters, no one at Montgomery, save only Seth Mettlar had the least idea. where he was; and he had written two more letters to Hester, which her fond husband took care should never come into her hand. He had also written to his father and mother again, asking why it was that he never heard from any of them. This last letterhe sent to the post- office by a young man, the son of Col. Kingsbury's nearest neighbor, who forgot to leave it, and, being out shooting the next day, used it. up for gun-wads. But, before he received any answer from them, a paper came addressed to him, being the first thing that had yet come to him through the post- office. He'opened it, and saw, that, to call his attention, a paragraph; had been marked with a pen. It was the announce- ment of Hester's marriage to Seth Mettlar. Walter was not demonstrative in his nature; and, save. only good Mrs..Kingsbury, no one divined that any trouble was, preying at his heart. She saw it, and endeavored to draw from him the cause of it, but without avail. He c6n- tiriued at his, labors ,with never a word of repining or re- proach; but his plans: for the future were all destroyed. There seemed nothing for him now but to mark out the way to which duty called, and to follow it as a-remorseless task, and in that find the only content this world could offer. While he was in this frame of mind, he strolled o t one Wednesday afternoon,- for there was no school on Wednes- day afternoons,-- and wandered away into the deep woods of magnolia, cyprus, oak, and laurel, that, at a distance of half a mile from the house, covered the crests 0ofthe increas- ing undulations, until the clearly defined hill-sides stood forth decked with the gorgeous foliage of every hue that Nature can show when she. first touches the earth with her pencil' of frost I He had been roaming about for two or three hours, now stopping to gather the wild nuts of the forest, and now observing the squirrels and wild pigs that his approach sent scampering from his path. As he was re-   A FAMLY HSTORY.        19 turning homewards after his stroll, he had barely emerged from the woods, when he saw, coming along the path by which he had himself entered, the burly form of Capt. Dykes. "Halloo, captain!" said he: "where are you steering ' now?'                         I-Ha, Walter! here you are, then! I was going to look for you. I couldn't find any cargo, though I have been lying here a month; and so I thought I'd come up and give-- you a call. When I got to the house, they told me you had gone off moping into the woods. I told 'em I'd go and look for you; for I've got something on hand mighty par- ticular, and I ve come up to consult you about it. But I've made up my mind." "You've made up your mind! and so 'you come to con- sult me?"    "         I "Ys   -no: I mean I think I. have a good thing, and want to ask your opinion about it.," "And if my opinion don't agree with yours?" "Then I shall follow my own." "I -am obliged to you for the respect you show me at least. You put yourself out to come up here to get my opiniop, after having made up your mind that it is not worth heeding. Your acts contradict themselves." ,      . "Well, you have helped me to two or three good things; and I thought it would not be showing much: respect or gratitude if I did not now consult you, though I think well enough of this job to take it up on my own judgment." "What is it, then?"  "I am going to sell the old schooner. I have had a bully offer. You know she's getting old, and I am older than I used to be; and I've been thinking for the past year or two, -if I could sell out the Good Intent,' I'd quit going to sea, and stay at home with the wife and children. The pitcher that goes often to the well is sure to be broken at last; and how do I know but I may make one voyage too many if I don't quit now?. That is what Kitty has been telling me for five years or more; and Kitty, poor foolish thing! she thinks there's not another man on airth so good as me. Besides, I've seen so much of this nigger business, I'm sick of it. So I think, if I can sell out, Pll quit going to sea. But the fact is, I b'lieve there is some underhand business going on, and that's why I've come to see you."   192      GOMEY OF MONTGOMWERY: "Since you have come to consult me, tell me all about it," said Walter, as, they leisurely strolled along towards the house. "I suspect," replied the captain, looking cautiously about, as fearingj even there, lest he should be overheard,- I sus- pect a 'plot- among a lot of niggers to run away, and get North ; and they want to buy the 'Good Intent' fobr that pur- pose. They offer me five hundred dollars more than she, is worth; and they have got the money too; and, what do you think, old Lindsey Wolsey is at the bottom of it! If! I trade, I can just take my money and cut home, and get there, too, In time for Jane's wedding. I told you on the voyage that my oldest daughter 'was to be married at Thanksgiving; and then, if the slaves can get away, all I h'ave to say is, I would do the same if I was in their place; and you know the Scripter it says 'we should do as we'd be done by.' And I know, if I was in their place, I'd be mighty glad to have somebody give me a chance for my freedom."  "Capt. Dykes," said Walter, "why did you wish to say any thing to me about this afifair? Do you not -see that I am liable to be brought into difficulty? These people here have used me with great kindness; and if I know of this affair, and do not reveal it, I shall seem to them guilty of ingrati- tude ; and, if I do inform on them,'I shall be guilty of a crime against nature, by informing on men seeking the right of owning themselves, - the freedom that God intended for all."       . -  "But you won't expose me? - You won't ruin me by re- porting what I have told you i/L confidence?" As for your profit and loss, it is a matter of minor im- portance. I shall surely do nlothing to compromise your personal- safety. But the matter of liberty or slavery to a single individual outweighs, by a thousand times, any in- terest you may have in this speculation. During my resi- dence here, I have seen, as I have been told and believe, slavery in its best aspects; and yet I have witnessed enough to make 'a man ashamed of bearing the human form. It was only last week that a slave-trader was along buying up the surplus stock on the older plantations in this neighborhood; and, though I kept out of sight as much as possible, I saw that, death's doings are merciful compared with those of   A FAMLY HSTORY.        193  save ry. I know not whether I more pitied or despised the miserable wretches. I could but pity their torn hearts, the agony of natural ties rudely rent asunder, and their hopeless despair. But I despised them because they endured theih servitude so humbly.  Why, any other race would brave and endure any thing sooner than submit to or live such a life; they would rise, though death inevitable, unsparing, stood before them in every form of cruelty and torture. And yet they submit, year after year, and see their children and brothers and sisters sold off, riever to meet them again in this world;. and the father arid mother go unresisting agsain to their work, and raise up rmore children to follow the sarae cheerless, hopeless road. Occasionally one, more cou- rageous and intelligent than his fellows, makes his escape; Find I honor him as one ,above his class, and above the po- idtion of 'a beast and chattel. But such are so few, that I see, no hope for them as a race; and I have been perplexed in trying to study out some plan that might mitigatLe their ,condition, and promise a brighter future. But they Dave so ' little ambition, so little recuperative energy left them, after centuries of degradation, that their redemption must come. from a source beyond themselves. Could the subject be treated on humane and enlarged principles, their gradual elevation might be possible;, but the system is a s'elf-evident crime, and those Who uphold it dare not look it in the face. They suppress all discussion of the subject, and try to convince , themselves that they are not worse, after all,than other men. After brutalizing the poor wretches through successive gene- rations, they smother all reflection on their own responsi- bility for what they have caused and are causing; and, by transparent sophistries, they try to -soothe their own con- sciences, and reconcile duty with self-interest. But, conscious of their own false reasoning, they will not tolerate discus- sion; and they regard as enemies, to be destroyed without- mercy, all who would disturb the quiet of their souls in the enjoyment of what is held only by a system   of robbery. The highwayman takes the traveller's money because he is stronger, the master eats. the bread the slave has earned because he is whiter; but. both are alike thieves.  The  slaves are too abject to strike a blow for themselves; and the, demon of selfishness has so possessed the souls of the mas- ers, that they have become purblind and callous; and to VOL. H.   194      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: me there appears little hope that the masters will ever break their mental, or the slaves their material, chains. The latter have lio hope in themselves; but they have a faith that they will be delivered some day from bondage; and it ap- pears to me that deliverance can come only through the folly of their masters. The existence of an enslaved race renders their"masters domineering, self-confident, and arro- gant. The boys learn to be despots while hardly out of their swaddling-clothes; and, when men, we have seen their insolence in the halls of Congress. Their arrogance and spirit of aagression, which are the direct result of the curse they so cherish, must sooner or later provoke opposition and collision between them and the people of the North, whom they affect so much to despise. Then the accursed thing will be swept from the earth; for neither the legions of Titus against Jerusalem, of Brennus against Rome, or Scipio against Carthage, committed such havoc as will the armies of the North on the citadels of slavery when once they realize the true character of the horrid Moloch that aspires to govern the-whole land. Thus, perhaps, the vile system may be broken up and destroyed. To this end, such escapes as you- speak of must all tend; for not only does every fugitive excite the interest and sympathy, but also the re- spect, of the people both North and South by the mere fact of his escaping. And it is respect that must finally tell. Escaped fugitives are listened to and respected, because they have shown, that, to gain freedom, they would confront danger. Before our people at the North can take much in- terest in the slave, he must see that he is possessed of some sparks of those higher feelings that ennoble humanity. He must show, that, for liberty, he is willing to risk something. It is hard to help those who- will not help themselves. The gods, are not prone to do it; and men are less than gods. Hence I regard -the fugitive as the forerunner, and in a manner the cause, of the redemption of his race. He departs, and drags at each remove a shortening chain. When he re- turns, his neck will be clothed with thunder." Thus, as they walked towards the house, Walter expressed his ideas of slavery to Capt. Dykes, who assented to all he said, not' because he believed in it, or took much interest in the subject any way, but because he was only thinking of the sale of the "Good Intent." If he could pocket his money,   A FAMLY HSTORY.         195 and get safely away, his object would be accomplished; and he thought little about subsequent results. The slaves were to take-ltheir chance for freedom, or the penaltiesof being caught in attempting to escape; and he was not responsible for either failure or success. He would sell his vessel only as a business transaction; and, if they achieved their free- dom, what was that to him? and if they failed, and were put to death for the attempt, what was that to him? He was no politician, and only wanted to sell his vessel, get his money, and return North to his family. Then he would never go to sea again. To a train of replies of this kind, Walter said, "Well, then, I don't know as I am called upon, under the -circum- stlances, either to say or do any thing in the affair. I would dislike to be a party to it; for people here have been kind- to me, and it would seem a poor return for me to entice away what they regard as property. Much less can I interfere to put any obstacle in the way of their escape. If I were in their place, I would do the same; and, as I shall neither help nor hinder, I am sorry- you ever said any thing to me about it.   It can do no good, and may get me into trouble.                     . "But," says Dykes, " if you- are to be exposed to the ven- geance -of the owners, I will have nothing to do with the affair. I shall not leave you in the lurch."    - "I will look out for myself, and keep out of harm's way. I shall take no part either way, and shall have nothing to fear." By this time they had reached the house; and Capt. Dykes got into his wagon, and drove away.  For several days after this, every thing in and about Lan- caster moved along as quietly, to all appearance, as ever; But Walter, being forewarned, could .-plainly see that some of the oldest and most faithful house-servants were engaged in some deep and mysterious plot. Yet none of the Wings- bury Family suspected any thing. About a week after his interview with Capt. Dykes, he went to the- town inl comO pany with Col. Kingsbury; and, while the latter was engaged in transacting some business, Walter, seeing the "Good In- tent" apparently deserted, so near the bank that a plank reached from the shore to the schooner, went on board to have a talk with the captain.       l   196      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: But be found no one in the vessel, except old; Lindsey Woolsey, whose face shone as radiant alid unctuous as ever; and he gave "Massa Walter" a welcome as loud and bois- terous as ever, though the latter plainly saw that his hilarity was affected, and his carelessness assumed. He inquired of the Ethiopioan for Capt. Dykes. "Don't know'whar he is," said Lindsey. "Him an' the mate had a iawful big jaw night afore last, and the cap' n paid him off, and told him, if he ever seed him aboard the 'Good Intent:' agin, he'd split his head with a marlin-spike. An', arter he'dl gone, he fell to 'busin' the han's; an' he told 'em they was a set o' lazy rascals, an' he paid them too, an' sent 'em off; an' they went an' shipped on the ' Wild Drake,' that had been waitin' for han's for a week; an' yesterday she dropped down the river, an' I 'spect she's clean out to sea by this time. Then the cap'n went off hisself some'eres. So there's nobody left to take care of the ship 'cept old Lin- sey Woolsey; an' I'm cap'n, mate, cook, an' all han's. Ha, ha!'" "And when is he coming,back?" "I'm looking for him every minute. Won't you walk into the cabin, and set down and wait for him? An' won't you take suthin', Massa Walter? Here's the cap'n's brandy bot- tle; an' he always drinks the best." "Nol: I will not drink any thing. But tell him that I - called to see him; tell him, too, that I want to see him. Will you?        .  "Oh, yes! I'll tell him sartain; and he will 'come right up and see you, when he comes back." "Yes: when he comes back." Walter- looked sharply at the negro when he said this, particularly emphasizing the word when. The black man started, and gave a look of mingled surprise and despair; but in an instant he recovered himself, and, forcing his ivory into full view, he said, "Yes, yes! I'll tell him you want to see him right quick." It was now clear to Walter that the skipper, after having got his crew out of harm's way by means of" a quarrel, had taken himself off by means of another conveyance. 'It was not likely the plot would long slumber; and Walteri re- turned to the Kingsbury plantation bewildered and anxious. The next morning, Walter rose earlier than usual, and set \     '         7 ,    A FAiMLY HSTORY. "        97 himself to reading the Confessions of Rousseau. He-had been thus engaged about an hour, when- he heard the voice of Col. Kiingsbury calling loudly for old Peter. "Pete, Pete! come here, you sluggard! What does this mean? Why aren't the cattle turned out?" "Pete arein't to home, massa," piped out a decrepit old slave, named Clem, that had just crawled out from the cook- house, on the floor of which he had been sleeping all night. "Aren't to home? Where is he, then?"  "I 'spect he's gone over t'other side the ridge to see one o' Gen. Pinnock's gals. He is in lub powerful with one o' the gen'l's young niggers. I 'spect he's gone to see her, an' staid too long; an', as he knowed he'd get a lickin' anyhow, he thought he might just as well be hanged for an old sheep as a lamb."  "Where's Albert, then?  Albert, come here, you lazy fellow!"  But Albert answered not. "I reckon he's gone to look alrter de hosses in de fur-  der pasture,-as you telled him to last night, - to start arly; and bring up the big grays."  "So I did, devil take it! Go and call Sam, then, from the garden; and tell him to saddle Tipton," said he to a bright quadroon girl of about seven, who Shllowed strong evidence of the Kingsbury blood in her veins. And then tell Lotty to lurry up her breakfast.  You needn't send for Sam neither; for I promised him a holiday to-day, and last even- ing he-went off to see his old woman, and won't be back all day."                    . . ," He went last night," replied Clem. "Well, this is a fine state of affairs!" said the master, get- ting excited, and  striding up and down in front of the house. "Not a boy about to saddle a horse! If this is the way things are going on, I reckon I may as well let all my , slaves g."                 .' "I can't find Lotty," said the little quadroon, running back out of breath.  "She aren't in the kitchen, aren't in the store-house, aren't nowhar."            . "Worse and worse!   I shall have to turn cook, and get my own breakfast, yet." At this time, Walter appeared among them, and   asked what was the matter. "Mater!" said the old man, stamping his foot: "matter   '!        . l98r      GOMERY: OF MONTGOMERY: enough,I think. The field-hands are all'out picking, and not a house-servant to be found." Just at this moment, the overseer of the next plantation came riding up in great haste, and inquired if any of their slaves had been seen - about there. Six of them, including two house-servants, and the blacksmith and carpenter, were missing.     -   ,  "I 'spect I know all about it," said old Clem. "There was a great ball over to Col. Preston's among his niggers las' night; and dat's whar-dey all went." "I am afraid there's something worse than that going on. Did you hear any thing, Jackson, of the ball old Clem speaks about?" "Yes: that's what some of the chil'en was talking on. But I don't b'lieve it. Tharts a stampede,"' replied the over- seer. "Stampede! where can they stampede to?" said the colonel in contempt. "You must have learnt your trade in Virginia or Kentucky. They don't do such things here. Now and then a boy runs away, and hides; but it's only when the planter:has, such a brute as you are for overseer. Come, George," addressing his eldest son: " let us saddle our own horses,.and ride down towards town to see what we can dis- cover. Will you come, Mr. Gomery?"Walter followed, and took out and saddled, for the first time since he had been there, the horse that had been assigned to him whenever he cared to ride. The four were soon under way at a full gallop to the next house on the road .to the town where lived an old war-vete- ran, named Churchill. As they approached, they saw a great commotion about the premises, and at once guessed the cause. The old man was tearing about like mad, shaking his long white locks, and stamping the ground with a heavy 'cane, with which he hit right and left every slave that came within his reach, and swearing at every thing in the heavens above, the earth- beneath, and;-the- waters under the earth. His next neighbor, from anotherdirection, had arrived there just before Kingsbury; and all three had the same story of lost treasures. They all had the same report, from their slaves who were-left, of the great ball on the other side the ridge. Col. Preston, a large planter, who lived some eight miles distant, and on the other side of the ridge, had built during d, Oaut, and on         rmg   A FAMLY HSTORY.        199 the season a large storehouse, and had promised his slaves that they should have a grand Virginia break-down when it was finished. It seemed that the night before was the time when the ball was to take place; and it looked as if there had been a great conspiracy to go off without even letting the masters or overseers know any thing about it, as they knew too well that few if any would get leave if they asked- for it, but, on the contrary, extra care would be taken to prevent them frim going by stealth. This solution of the question that had so excited them had the effect to somewhat calm their apprehensions; but still, as they were not sure it was- the right one, there was a great deal of anxiety felt. "Here, Taggard," said Gen. Churchill (every planter is a general, or at least a colonel, by cour- tesy, though Churchill had once held a commission, and " fit a the Creeks and Cherokees),-"here, Taggard, you long- legged, lantern-jawed, knock-kneed, Yankee-livered son of a sea-cook, jump on the painter colt, and ride over to Preston's, and see if they are there, or have been there. Of course they are not there now, but are sneaking home through the woods and by-paths. And, you whittling Yankee, take a pistol; and, if you find them, drive them as you would a herd of buf- faloes. Don't spare the whip, you whelp of a dog hung for sheep-stealing! Don't spare the leather, I say!" "I' ain't apt to do that," said the Yankee as he jumped upon the horse, and started in a gallop up the road leading over the ridge. "Egad! he'll make 'em hop!" said the old ruffian. "He has got more grease in his elbow-than any overseer I ever had. He likes the music of his own whip. But come in, and let us have some breakfast." The party entered the house, where a genuine planter's breakfast was on the board. It consisted of beefsteak, broiled chicken, cold boiled ham, roast sweet-potatoes, hot biscuit, hot corn-bread, and eggs both fried and boiled. The coffee was dispensed from a huge silver coffee-pot, or urn, that stood at the right of the hostess, who was some forty years younger than her lord, and looked as beautiful and fresh as a rose, on a June morning.         ! During the breakfast, the conversation naturally turned on the subject of slave management; and the host stoutly main- tained' that there was too much lenity shown in that neigh borhood.   200      GOMERY OP MONTGOMERY: "The fact is," said Churchll, "' we are allowing our slaves too mnly privileges: It only makes them discontented. Now, I give my fie]d-hands each his peck, of meal and two pounds of pork; and, with my Yankee overseer, I get more- work out of the same number of hands, when they are well, than any man within fifty miles of Lancaster Court House. And they are contented too: there is nothing like plenty of worl to make niggers contented. If they are called up ev- ery morning by daylight, and kept at it till dark, and given just time to eat their dinner at noon, they can't have time to . hatch mischief. They are always too glad to get to sleep to :' steal around' among the neighbors' niggerg." "I know," said Kingsbury, "your hands give less trouble than-some, others; but you use them up faster, and are obliged to buy others from the Iorth to fill their places; and those Northern slaves that come down this way very often are the smartest in the country, and are sold because they are so sharp and intelligent, that their maste's are always afraid of their running away or plotting some mischief." "But- my-slaves never run away, hard as I am said to use 'em. It has seemed to me, when I have come suddenly among them of a Sunday eyening, they were the most con- tented and happy beings in/ the world. And then I take good care to tell them, that, if any one of them were to get Noith, he would be starved to death, and froze to death after- wards; and then I make it a rule once in three months to in- vite. Parson Southside to come home with me after service; and then all the servants are gathered together in the even- ing, and he talks to them most affectionately, and tells them the mercy of thi Lord in granting them so many bless- ings when their poor brethren of the North are starving to death by hundreds, and, besides, have not the consolations of the gospel to cheer them, but all go to the bad place. Arid when I have heard him describe the fate of the poor deluded wretches who have been -beguiled away by the wicked abolitionists, who were only doing the Devil's work getting them away from their happy homes to whip them to death, and then turn them over to their master, Satan, to be roasted for ever and ever, it has made me laugh, in spite of myself, to hear the poor wretches cry out; '0 Lord! save us from Satah and save us from the abolitions!' And the old preacher, Pompey, beats 'em all hollering; and, when he   A FAMLY, HSTORY.       201 preaches himself, he always warns his woolly audience to shun the way of' Satan and the abolitionists." 'I always thought that Parson Southside was a great hypocrite," said Kingsbury. After the breakfast was finished, and each one had smoked his cigar', as it was supposed that Taggard would not proba- bly return before noon, the company dispersed, each going to his ownl homne.  But, before eleven o'clock, the news came up-from the vil- lage that slaves were missing from almost every house; and nlo .o knew whitherthey had gone. Those left behind in- variably spoke of them as gone to the great ball at Col. Pres- ton's; and at least half a dozen couriers had been sent. out, not only to Preston's, but in every other direction; and not a word could be heard of one of the missing chattels. As soon as this news arrived, every man, planter, and over- seer alike, hurried to town, where 'was a greater commbtion than had ever been seen there before. The whole population was in the streets; and they could scarcely have shown more consternation and excitement had the bombardment of- the towl been hourly expected. About five minutes before the arrival of Col. Kingsbury and his party, of whom Walter was one, the messengerl, Wh o had -been despatched to Preston's plantation to learn if the missing pl'operty had- been seen at the great ball, had returned, and reported that not one of them had been there the night before; but so far from it, that four of Col. Preston's best hands, two of the Widow Plunkett's, and five of Capt. Strother's, both neighbors of Col. Pres- ton, were missing. Not until this moment had it occurred to any one in the crowd, except Walter, that perhaps the fugitives had escaped - by way of the river. Now, however,it was evident that such must have been the case; and a warehouse-man, whose build- ing', stood' fronting the main street,- where the crowd was thickest,- and extending back to the bank of the river, ran to look from a rear window, and, behold! the "Good Intent," which had not before been missed, was nowhere. to be seen. Rushing back to the front-door, he shouted out, "They have gone off on the Yankee s*hooner, the ' Good Intent'!"This, caused a rush f'ound the corner of the warehouse, and towards the bank or bluff where the "Good Intent" had been moored: but nothing was to be seen of her; and the crowd returned   202      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: to the eentre of the town, and great was the tumult and com- motion. The attention of the mob-for it was now little better than a mnob- was soon turned on Waltel; whom Col.  Kingsbury had begun to question about his friend Capt. " Dykes. But, to the great relief of both, a stable-keeper pres- ent said Capt. Dykes had hired a horse and buggy of him, leaving their value in money, the clday before, to go up into  the back country to see a relation of his; and he believed the niggers had taken advantage of his absence to steal his vessel. "And I hearn his mate say," said a rman named Riley, " that he wals s(uch a quarrelsome old cuss, that he and all the hands had left him, and shipped on board the ' Wild Drake.'" "It is no time now to talk about how they got off so slyly. The thing now is to catch 'em," cried the captain of the lit- tle steamboat, the "Lady Berrien," that plied between Lancas- ter and the towns above, and that had unexpectedly arrived that morning. "'They haven't got more than ten or twelve hours' start; and we will catch them yet." "That is the kind of talk," said old Churchill. "Here's the 'Lady Berrien' arrived just in time to catch them; and i 'sno doubt a special providence that sent her down just now. Cap'n Webber, how soon can you be off?" "In an hour, if I'm o'nly paid for the service." "Is this a time to talk of price, you son of a sea-cook! when our lives, ourdliberty, our institutions, are in danger?" cried Churchill, shaking his head fiercely, and stamping the earth i with his cane. "Be off, and catch them! and I will be respon- sible for all damage and costs. How soon can you be off, you money loving skip-jack?" "The fires are up now. I'll be ready as. soot as you can get a company aboard large enough to capture the ungrateful wretches. If we overtake them, they will fight like devils before they surrender, and very likely they've got arms aboard."   ' "Ay, you're right," said Churchill. ." Boys, come on: get all your guns and'pistols, and let us be off! I will lead you," said the old mani shaking his- white locks, and assuming the command in every thing. 4"We must take the field-pieces of the Calhoun Blues, besides the little swivels on board the "ady Berrien.' Let us take care that we are the whales, not Jonahs. Every man to his duty!" Those of the crowd who lived near by, and had arms at   A FAMLY HeSTORY.       203 home, hurried off to bring them; and soon every gun, rifle, and pistol, that had not been previously appropriated by the fugitives, was brought forth to do service in the impending naval battle. The pursuers hastily embarked, and the," Lady Berrien" swung round from the old hulk to which she had  been moored as a wharf. Gen. Churchill, by tacit consent, took the command of the party, consisting of about a hun- dred of the chivalrous sons of the South, all panting for ac- tion, honor, and immortal glory, and well provided with fire- arms, bowie-knives, and ammunition, both to charge their weapons, and to fortify their courage. Their general had fore- seen that the latter kind would be in demand, and sent on board a cask of the best Monongahela whiskey. w      ' '    204      GOMERY oF MONTGOMElRY: , CHAPTER XIV. "God's arm be with us! 'tis a fearful odds." - HENRY V. UN6OBSERVED and silent, Walter Gomery went on board the "Lady Beriien " with the crowd. What purpose could he have had to subserve? Surely, after what he had said to ?Capt. Dykes, he would not turn slave-catcher, or be one of a party engaged in hunting down men flying from bondage! r What, then, was his object? ' We shall see. , The ",Lady Berr ieni " moved rapidly down the streamr. The passengers were busy scouring, cleaning, and loading their weapons, not forgetting to charge their stomachs witht the Monongahela.  Walter went on' the -hurricane-deck, and walked back and forth, absorbed in deep reflection, An ill- looking; heavily-whiskered ruffian (who, nevertheless, was a rich planter, and' none other than the Col. Preston who had' given the great ball the nightV before) was eying, him omi- nously; which observing, he went below, .and procured from young Kingsbury an old king's arm blunderbuss, with which he paraded himself, predicting that the ungrateful scoundrels would never get away, Col. Kingsbury, who witnessed this, came up to him, and said in an undertone, "Mr. Gomery, I never thought to see you in such disgraceful business!" "See the end before you condemn," replied Walter. The bit of acting resorted to by Walter speedily allayed the suspicion of Whiskerando, who then mounted a stool, and proposed to have an organized meeting. "Now is the time," said he, "to consider what we are to do with these cussed, 6ngrateful runaways," "Catch 'em fust," said a small, squeaking voice. "Catch em? Of course we shall.  Cap'n, look a' here! Do you see this revolver2? Do you see this here institution? If you don't catch 'em, you may know what to expect." The, captain, who was a quick-spoken, sharp-voiced, brave r; piA   A FAMLY HSTORY.        205 little game-cock, stepped forward, and said, "Gentlemen, I am not to be bullied on my own boat. We are carrying now - all the steam it is safe to carry; but if this big bully wants to carry more, though I think he has got about as much in his own biler as he can carry without busting, he can go down and feed the fires, or set on the escape-valve." "Ay, ay: the cap'n's right," said old Churchill. "No in- terference!"  "At this rate," said the captain, ' we will make the mouth of the river before sunset; and,I don't believe they can get out to sea before then, for the wind has been light and flawy all day. If they do get off, it shall not be my fault, nor that of the ' Lady Berrien."'              I "All right, then," said Whiskerando. "I have a proposition i to make. I see the owners of all or nearly all the runaways on board. Now, it won't do at all to let any of them remain in this part of the country after they are captured. -They have got their heads full-of notions of freedom, and will be putting all the other slaves up to mischief. They are bent on running away; and we may lick the life e'en a'most out on 'em, and they will still try to get away. They are thes most ongrateful critters! I move, therefore, that they all be kept in prison- till they are sold to he tAken to Missippi or Lusiana, and each one to have a hundred lashes a day until they are: sold, and fed only on rice and water. The ring- leaders will, of course, all be hanged; for the State will pay us for them."  "Yes, yes! that is fust-rate, 'specially the last part," said 'Riley.      . "But I never sold a slave in my life," said Kingsbury," and' have said a thousand times I never would." "But the public safety, the public safety! have you no patriotism?" said Preston, who knew better than to act the bully towards a man of Kingsbury's wealth and influence. "I am not to be taught my duty by a man of your sort," replied Kingsbury testily. "I have at least six slaves on board the schooner, worth a thousand dollars apiece; and what have you got?"     -.  "I have got four of the smartest boys in the county, two of 'em three-quarters white," said-whiskers; "and I'll bet two to one that the whole thing was hatched up by them, as. there ain't no others in these parts smart enough to do it. VOL. II. :   8              '   206      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: Fact is, they look, 4 little like me. But I offer to give 'emn all up to be hanged if they are proved to be the ringleaders." "Yes; -and the State must pay for them, and all the rest of 'Us be taxeed to raise the money," muttered Kingsbury. "It is -a fair proposition," said Churchill. "Put the vote." "All in favor will hold Tp their hands,?' said Preston. Every hand was raised, except-that of Kingsbury and Walter. These two were now standing a little apart, cofnvers- ing in a low tone. ("You see," said the elder,; "who it is that prevails in a crowd of this kind. I shall be obliged to yield; and, if we overtake the schooner, all my boys will either be hadrged, or Ilshfill be forced to sell them to go farther south or west. In fact, I shall not shed a tear if they all escape. I never blame a slave for escaping; and to hang them for it, in my mind, is no better than murder; and I don't choose to  carry a dead hand as the price of blood." Walter turned away, and went upon the upper deck, where he found the crowd getting more and more noisy and quar- relsome, as the Monongahela ran free to all. The talk was loud and profane; and the captain, who tstood alongside of the pilot-house, was anxiously looking for the schooner. It was now but a short distance to the open sea; and, if he failed to overtake the schooner, the drunken crowd would very likely turn upon him (as he had been guilty of a Northern birth), and maltreat him, and deface, if not ruin, his boat. Besides, he knew no money would be paid unless the fugi- tives were caught.            . In the mean while, Walter was pacing the deck, deeply absorbed in his own thoughts; and thus he reasoned with -himself:- "Here are more than a hundred; fugitives from bondage on the point of escaping. An accident that should delay the steamer (the breaking of a pipy or connecting-rod, or any derangement of the machinery that should cause an - hour's delay) would insure freedom to them all. Is there no power in heaven to do it? No, none: man's devices are to be circumvented by man's- devices. These poor wretches have the sarme right totheir liberty that I have; and those that pursue them are but thieves and robbers,. To rob an equal is theft; to rob an inferior is a meaner theft; and yet the whole system of slavery is based on this principle of robbing the weak becausethey are weak, and are powerless   A FAMLY HSTORY,        207 to protect themselves. Shall I be a party to such- au act? No! Shall I look passively on, and not' try to prevent it? No! Come what will, my duty is to risk myself and all I have to avert their impending fate. Of course, they will put me to death; of course, I shall die like a felon or a dog; and word ivill be sent forth to the world through the newspapers, so colored as to makel my name detestable, and perhaps cause my own kindred to disown me. But father or 'mother will believe never a word to my-prejudice. They cannot be made to think evil of me; and 'for the rest of the world, what is their opinion to me, compared with my duty? Men have often died before for the sake of their fellow-men and glory; but to lme is presented the bitter cup of death and infamy; Well, so be it! I accept the chalice; I am a coward else. My duty is clear. My life is of little value compared with that of all these poor fugitives, who are seeking that life and liberty which God intended for them as well as me. If they escape, each will be a missionary to arouse the people of the North to a sense of the -horrors of the accursed system which they now passively approve and actively support. Each life thus may be of more value than mine. What, then, but fear and selfishness restrain me? The case is clear: why, then, argue it? No more.: down, thoughts of self! You owe your life to God; and his work it is to save your fellow-creatures. Duty, duty! and leave the results with Him who doeth all things well."  While thus meditating, Walter had been walking up and down the hulricane-deck, stopping' for a moment each turn as he came near the engine, and looking at the two pieces of a broken spar that were lying on the deck between the walking-beam and the wheel-house, The boat was moving with great rapidity, and 'the interest of the slave-hunters was at its highest pitch. The sun was getting low, and they were fast nearing the month of the river; and the breeze was fireshening fast, so that it would never do to follow the schooner beyond the headlands. Walter does not dare to look ahead where all other eyes are turned, for fear of beholding the unwelcome sight of the. fugitive vessel. But a shout frojn the others announces but too clearly that the schooner is in sight. With a gsiClening sense ihe turns his head, and sees her not more than half a ilfile in advance. Rounding-a point, the steamboat had come ,'   208      GoB RExt OFi MONTGOMEiRY:  almost full upon her. An hour more wrould have saved them, for the open sea was in sight; and, with. the approaching darkness and gathering breeze, they never would have ad- ventured the 4( Lady Berrien " on the rising ocean. "It's lucky the Wind didn't spring up earlier," said Gen. Churchill. 'It's a special providence, such as Parson South- side is always prophesying for the righteous. It shows which side the Lord's on, at any rate.'" The steamer fast neared the schooner, the deck of which was covered with the despairing fugitives. At sight of the approaching capturers brandishing their weapons, many of the frightened wretches fell on their knees; though it could be seen that the old preacher, Pompey, was urging them to put off their praying, and prepare to fight. "Ah, ha I' said old Churchill: "you old hypocrite, you! This is the way you want to be Saved from the abolitionists, is it? It's no use your praying if you get into my hands again. Th9 Lord don't hear the prayers of runaways. It's only those servants that obey their masters that the Lord ever listens to." Walter stood on the front quarter of the deck, looking ea- gerly at the unhappy sight before him. Old Lindsey Woolsey could be distinctly seen at the helm; and Ills voice colld be heard above the plashing of the waters, the snorting of the en- gine, and the shouts of the slave-hunters, calling on his com- panions to fight, and they would yet escape. The schooner was now so near the broad mouth of the river, that there was plenty of room for working her; and the breeze, now fresh and steady, bore her along at a speed almost as great as that of the steamer. : They can't board us unless we lay to!" shouted Lindsey Woolsey. "So courage, and liberty will be yours! They will never shoot thousand-dollar niggers." The sharp crack of a rifle was now heard, and Linqdsey, Woolsey was seen to fall back from the helm; but he in- stantly sprang forward, and caught it again with his left hand, his right hanging shattered and powerless by his side. , "Hit the black scoundrel again!" roared out old Churchill: "he's free, and they can't steer the ' - But just at that instant a tremendous crash was heard be- hind them.  Their first idea was the boiler had burst; and Churchill, Whiskerando, and about half the rest, fell on their knees: but, as they saw neither steam nor smoke, they con-   A PAMILY HSTORY.       209 clided the danger was not so imminent, and jumped up, and began to swear as usual. They lookedE to see what the disas- ter was; and, behold! some one, evidently not on the Lord's side, had thrown one of the pieces of brokepn spar under the end of the walking beam, so that, when it came down, it struck it with such folce as to smash through the deck at the same time that the shalft snapped in two like a pipe-stem. The noise was heard on board the schooner, now just along. side of the steamboat., Lindsey Woolsey gave a shout of defiance, brandishing his left arm at the pursuers, who were now thinking more of their own safety than of catching run- ,aways. The steamer, impelled by the momentum she had befole acquired, drove past the schooner, that yielded to her helm, bore down to the leeward,; and was soon beyond rifle- shot. The "Lady Berrien " lay helpless on the water; and the "Good Intent" had escaped. 18'   210      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: e -  '*I        .   j '   .CHAPTER XV. -\         -     ' ! an thy, man, they did make love to this employment. hey are not near my conscience: their defeat Does by their own insinuations grow." -E HAMLET. ALL had been looking intently at the schooner at the time that Walter Gomery, taking advantage of the upward stroke of the walking-beam, had thrust the broken spar into such a position, that, on the downward stroke, it should disable the; engine. The, instant it was in its place, he sprung lightly and unobserved to the side of the vessel; and, by the time the crash came, ho was at the railing, looking as intently as any one towards the schooner; that was still leading off before the breeze in gallant style. Lindsey Woolsey was still holding the helm, assisted by preaching Pompey; the two being pro- tected by a wall of the most valuable negroes, who knew they were too valuable to be shot, and who formed so perfect a shield to Lindsey, that no ball could reach him without destroying at least two thousand dollars' worth of human property. But the crash caused all on board the steamer to turn their eyes to the rear; and the captain, who at once saw there was no explosion and probably no danger, as he turned and si Preston, or Whiskerando, on his knees, cried out to him, ",Get off your marrow-bones, you cowardly bully! there is no danger. Dgn't you see the steam is blowing off?" Looking down through the opening in the deck through which the connecting-rod of the walking-beam with the piston played, they saw the battered fragments of the spar, and at' once complehended the cause of this disaster, so flatly in the face of special providence. They looked aghast as they be- held the ruin it had caused; and as they cast their eyes in another direction, and saw the "Good Intent" driving 'fast o ut to sea, the volleys of curses and oaths uttered were enough to have sunk her, had she not been a taut-built craft. ! *       .\    A FAMLY HSTORY.        2" The "Good Intent," Lindsey Woolsey, master, has sailed, bearing a hundred and fifteen human souls, let us hope, to fi'eedom and to happiness., Walter Gomery has served them, in all, probability, at the sacrifice of his own life. Not only that, but, as the popular opinion then was, his death must be infamous. He cannot even have the poor satisfaction of knowing that the escaped fugitives will thank him: on the contrary, he was sure that Lindsey Woolsey had seen him among the pursuers; and after the shot was fired, and the ves- sels were near each other, he saw the enraged negro shake the fist of his undamaged arm towards him, and heard'him cry out, "That cursed Yankee has betrayed us!"Others heard: the same remark, but supposed it referred to the captain of the "Lady Berrien," who was also a Yankee; at which that enterprising individual instantly advanced a hundred per cent in their estimation. It was after this that the plan he had before matured was carried into effect. Those whom he was to save had wronged him through ignoranqe, and he blamed them not. His duty was not the less clear. Had not Christ died for his enemies? What though those he was to die for were ctursing him in their hearts? It was through ignorance; an(I that sin God winked at."' Walter had seated himself, after the catastrophe, on one of the seats that ran round the railing bf the deck. The cry as, "Who did it?" "I know who done it," said a voice from below. "Come up, then!" cried the captain.  The order was obeyed with alacrity; and a tall, finely formed mulatto, a waiter on the boat, came bounding up the' stairs.           . "Mind what you say, now," said Col. Kingsbury, while his face 'blanb;ched and his voice quivered; for he was almost as- sure who had done the deed as though he had seen it. "Mind you don't accuse the; wrong man: if you do, you will be langed."  "Be hanged!" said the slave with a sneer of contempt: "who was ever hanged for accusing a Yankee? Thir, that's him thar on the bench, - :that schoolmaster." The eyes of all were turned on Walter, who sat as unmoved, and appar- ently as calm, as a statue. The first to speak was Gen. Churchill. "You did this awful crime, did you, you cowardly infidel, you white-livered   212      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: thief, you imp of Satan!" at thI last words, making a motion to strike him with ,his cane, which was arrested by Kings- bury. "Take that!" said Preston, striking him a heavy blow in the facelthat nearly knocked him from his seat, and immediately drawing his revolver. "They have e eaped," mildly answered Walter.. "Ay, they have!" said Whiskerando, discharging his pis- tol. But the motion of the ruffian had been seen by Kings. bury, who endeavored to prevent it: but, instead of that, the pistol was knocked aside accidentally by Churchill, who was  raising his cane to strike a second time; and, instead of hit- tilg Walter, the ball went through the heart of the mulatto waiter. "Better luck, next time!" said the planter, cocking, and firing again. This time the ball entered the shoulder of Walter, who fell forward on the d'eck. "Cowardly assassin!" cried old Churchill, enraged at the firing into a crowd, nor yet believing in such deliberate mur- der; for, brutal and overbearing as the slave practice had made him, he still had s9me notions of fair-play., The old man stepped forward to raise up Walter, and to protect him, if need be, from further indignity or harm. With the assist- ance of Kingsbury and others, he was carried below, and placed on a sofa in the ladies' saloon. Some were so en- raged, that they did not wish him to escape by a merciful, and sudden death; others, more hasty, only regretted that the ball had not been through the heart. Meanwhile the "Lady Berrien" had been drifting, or rather driven, before the wind. Fortunate it was for those aboard of her that there was a wind; for had there been none, or had it been in a contrary direction, or had not a new spar been rigged, in place of the one that was broken a few days before, they must all inevitably have been carried out to sea; and a river steamboat, drawing three feet and a half of water, with a fresh and freshening breeze, could not long keep afloat on the billowy Atlantic. But fortunately, or, as our friend Whiskerando would say, through a special provi- dence, the wind was blowing fresh from the south,- a wind that' came quartering on the schooner; and so, instead of drifting out to,sea, the '"Lady Berrie "? was driven hard and fast against the left bank of the river, where she was made fast to the roots of a huge sycamore- ree.   A FAMLY HSTORY.        ' 213 It was n fter sundown when the "Lady Berrien " struck the bank;. and the baffled rage of the crowd had been growing more and more furious; so that, but for an incident that hap- pened a few minutes before she struck, it had been doubtful whether Walte,' would have been-allowed to leave the boat alive. After Walter had been laid in the cabin below, Churchill returned on deck; 'and he and Preston got into a violent dispute in regard' to the negro who had been shot. He was the property of ChUrchill, and was supposed to have a nearer relation to him than that even; and had beena hired to the captain of the "Lady Berrien" as head waiter and steward. He was valued, at the least, at two thousand dol- lars. Churchill swore that the other should pay for him; but the other answered back that he was a selfish old chuil, without a spark of patriotism, or else, under such circum- stances, he would never ask for pay. He was only trying to do his duty when "he accidentally shot him instead of the Yankee who had caused all the trouble; and, if the old man hadn't been an abolitionist at heart, he would never ask for a cent of compensation. To be called an -abolitionist was too much for the still fiery blood of the old Cavalier. He might have been called a thief, and have answered the charge with oaths and. threats; or he might have been accused of selling his own children to- grace the harems of Mobile and Savannah, and he would have laughed at it. But to be called an abolition- ist!-he! -Archibald Churchill, a descendant of the old Cavaliers, first cousin to two Ex-Governors, brother-in-law to a United-States senator, and father-in-law to a mem- ber of Congress,--to have a charge so infamous brought against him was too much foy human nature to bear. Quick as a flash, his heavy Cane lighted- on the sconce of the auda- cious slanderer, and knocked him senseless on the floor. This incident diverted the attention of all from Walter for several minutes, --save only Col. Kirlgsbury, who kept near him all the while, and, as soon as the boat was fast to the bank, hurried, him, with the help of some of the boat-hauds, on shore. There were several carriages waiting near the- bank where -they larded, as, the singular manceuvres of the two vessels had attracted the notice of people on shore, sev- eral of, whom had followed the road along the rivers bank to see what it all meant.   214      GOMENY OF MONTGOMERY:. Walter's wound was niot so severe but that he was able, with the assistance of Kingsburv and the black servants of the boat, to ascend the bank. Among the'carriages standing, there was one farm-wagon, in which sat the driver, a middle- aged negro, who had stopped, and was looking curiously at the unusual scene. Without .ceremony, Walter was lifted into this hard-jolting vehicle, and laid flat on the floor; and Kingsbury, taking his seat beside the driver, told him to drive on. "Whar to,?" asked the slave. -"To your masters."1 "Massa aren't to home."            - "So much the better: drive on," said Kingsbury; at the same time catching the whip, and belaboring the flankslof the horses. "Who is your master?"  ; "Mr. Caperton, up on the Point." '- "Why, that's half-way up to Lancaster. . "Yes, massa; but it's on the ole road: its much furder than the n6w road."          j "No matter for that," said he, loo ing anxiously behind him, and then plying the whip with renewed vigor. He knew, that, as soon as the crowd perceived that Walter had been spirited away, pursuit would instantly be made; and his object was to get up to the point where the new road forked off from the old; and as the latter was never travelled now, except-by those having business at one or the other of the three plantations situated on what was called the "Point," -- So called from the bend in the river,- he would thus probably escape his pursuers. IThe latter would proba- bly think he had made directly for home, and by the shortest route; nor would-they ascertain their mistake until the drunken excitement they were now in would have time to wear off. If they were to get hold of Walter that night, Kingsbury had too good reason to believe that the morning sun- would show him dangling from the branch of a sycamore or magnolia by the road-side. The darkness favored the flight; and, as had been foreseen, the pursuers all took the direbt road to Lancaster, leaving Kingsbury to find his way during the night as best he might. It was ten o'clock before the farm-wagon reached the Caperton Plantatibn, from which the family was absent; the place being left in charge of a nephew of the owner, *ho 4  *',  i       , ," i    A FAMTILY HSTORY.        215 was a young man well known to Col, Kingsbury. They drove up to the front of the house, and were hailed from a chamber window by a voice calling out, "o Who is there?"' "Halloo! is that you, Robert?" said Kingsbury: "come  down if it is, and help me out of this." "But who are, you?        . "It's Kun'l Kingsb'ry, Massa Robert, from Lancaster." "Col. Kingsbury, you here at this time o' night! I'll come down directly." They waited the appearance of the young man, who came running out, saying, "What does all this mean?" "It means that there has been awful work up at the vil. lage. About a hundred slaves ran off last night on a schoo- ner; and we started off onw the steamer to catch them, and have had a fight, and this young man in the'wagon got wounded."      .           - "Is that it? I saw the Lady Berrien go down, covered with passengers; and I couldn't think what was up. I'll bet f five to two that some of uncle's niggers are gone, then; for / there's two been missing all day: and I sent this evening for cock-eyed Riley to come to-morrow with his dogs to hunt for them. Fury! won't the old man bluster when he hears of it! Who is this wounded man? -Let .us take him into  the house." "Are you in much pain, Mr. Gomery?" said Kingsbury. "A little, sir."  "He is the schoolmaster up in our neighborhood; and, as we must get home before his wounds can be dressed, we will try and make him a bed as comfortable as possible in the wagon; and if you can give us some fresh horses, then we will be able to get to Lancaster by three o'clock in the morn- ing."  "All right: that can be done easy. Boys," said he, turn- ing to the slaves who had gathered around to see what this strange arrival meant,-"boys, change these horses, and put in Whitefoot and Old Roger. They will take you up in two hours, or two and a half, easy. "I am very thirsty," said Walter. "Of course you are," said the young man. "What am I thinking of? You want a good glass of brandy; and 'll get it for you."  ' In a little time, the fresh horses were harnessed, another   216       GOaERY OF MONT OMER': driver was mounted to the seat, somee straw was placed in the wagon, and over it a light feather-bed was thrown; and Walter was carefully placed upon it, and some blankets thrown over him; and then, after both he and his kind pro- tector had each taken a glass of brandy and water, the driver was told to go ahead, and soon they were jogging at a brisk trot over the fine old road towards Lancaster.  Kingsbury knew too well the temper of the people among whom he lived to think of taking the wounded man to his ownV. house. He drove directly to the county jail, and roused tup the jailer, who was almost as much surprised, when he opened the sliding panel in the front door of the jail and rec- ognized Col. Kingsbury, as young Caperton had been. "I have brought you a prisoner,' said Kingsbury: " lock him up, and keep' him safe. Give him the best room in the jail, and send off to Dr. Jones at once to come and dress his wounds."  X  The jailer, who had a room in the jail, where he slept, now opened the door; anid thee two, with the assistance of the driver, lifted Walter from the wagon, and carried him'into the jail, and laid him on a low, miserable bed in the jailer's own room. The crowd who had pursued Walter and his protector had arrived at Lancaster before therm; but, as they could hear nothing of the fugitives, they concluded they had stopped at some planter's house on the road; and after going to the Southern-Rights Hotel, rousing up. the landlord, and, re- charging their exhausted bodies with whiskey, they separated, to meet again early the next, or rather that morning: when it was agreed they would  . make short work of the d--d Yankee." There were but about a dozen. who pushed through to the village that night. Of the rest, some staid aboard the boat, and some straggled up to the nearest plan- tations to tell their sad story and beg for a night's lodging. Hence it came to pass, that, after a day of excitement and turmoil such as the town had never witnessed before, all was quiet as possible when IEingsbury,and his charge drove up to the jail; and Walter wAs safely locked inside before any of th towns-people knew of the " distinguished arrivals." Thus far, Kingsbury had acted a courageous and noble part. But he knew that there was a limit, beyond which, much respected as he 'was, he must not pass. The fury of   A FAMLY rISTORlT.        217 the mob the next day, he well knew, would be ferocious and ungovernable. Were Walter in any private house, he did 'not doubt that he would be taken out and hanged before ten o'clock in the morning. But the mob might respect the public jail, and appease their sanguinary thirst with the re- flection that they were sure of his blood at last, and that they could make his life a prolonged torture. "If," thought Kings. bury, "they can get over the first excitement and rage, and come to think coolly on the bravery and self-sacrifice of their prisoner, their animosity might change to respect, and he might secure, perhaps, a fair trial; and the only action'that Would lie against him would be for damages to the boat; for by no straining of law or evidence could he be convicted of enticing slaves to escape. And as for the other matter, there was but one witness, and he was dead; and besides, by the laws of Georgia, he was not competent to testify against a white man." Thus reasoned Col. Kingsbury in regard to the man he had hoped to save. His next care was to provide for his own safety. It was not enough for him to leave the wounded man to, his fate in the jail. Of course, his standing by him' longer would be accounted black treason.' He must be among the most vociferous for- vengeance; for slavery ac-. knowledges no half-way loyalty. If at the same time, how- ever, that he calls for the severest measures and penalties, he can at ,the same time convince the mob to let the'law, take its course, perhaps, before his trial comes on, a better feeling may obtain among the people. First of all, however, he must keep clear Of suspicion; for once let the impression get abroad that he has sentiments less than fiendish towards the great culprit, and he may expect a warning to leave the State in twenty-four hours, to return at his peril. Thoughts of this kind passed through the mind of Col. Kingsbury as he pursued his way through the village and up to his own home. His wife had not been in bed during the night; and, when he entered the house, her first question was, "Have they got away?"--'"Yes," he replied: "they are far at sea before this."- Oh, I am so glad!" exclaimed she. "I was so afraid they would be brought back! and then "- "Hush, wife!" said he:I "never say such a thing as that VOL. II.    19              ' It   218      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: tagain. If overheard, we could not live a day longer in- Lan caster."   - The next morning, by nine o'clock, Kingsbury was again at the village. The people were gathered in knots, talking over the events of the day before, and considering what should be done with their great criminal. Those of the pur- suers who had returned the night before had been so over- powered by their hard work and harder drinking, that they had not yet appeared on the scene; and it was twelve o'clock in the day before the loiterers, who had stopped at different places below, had all returned, crest-fallen,- to town. At about two o'clock, the valiant Col. Preston mounted, the stepsi in front of the State-Rights Hotel, and began a speech, and was going on vigorously,urging that such prompt measures lmust be taken, and vengeance fall so quickly on the heels of crime, that' nobody should ever dare such a thing again. Most fortunately, the author and originator of the atrocious act that had called them together was a prisoner in. their hands. A special providence had reserved him to them for punishment ; and, if they failed to put him -to death by torture, they would show themselves heathens and infidels, He had .got fairly into his favorite subject of special provi. dence, when the voice of a deformec, half-idiotic old negro, who lived about the town after the manner of a cur dog whom nobody will own, called out, loud enough to-be heard by the whole crown, "Dat's mighty fine speech, Massa PrestOn; but reck'n you wouldn't go on so if you know'd your shirt was, panging out behind a foot, foot and a half, or two feet." : This, with the shout produced by it, was too much for Col, Preston. Special providence had jilted him, and he could not- go on.' He hemmed, hawed, and stammered a few words: but the crowd broke forth in repeated guffaws; and he was obliged to stop,- and descend 'fom 'his eminence. If his rage was great when he thoughthis pantaloons had betrayed him, it -was unbounded, gnashing, frothing, whenhe learned, that, whilie preaching war in front, there was really no white flag in the rear.  : Kingsbury took advantage of this first symptom of reason or good-humor, and began talking to the multitude. He asked if they were insane, and were prepared 'to grant the #mCd .fanatio what of all things he. most wanted, - to be sud- M             ' '    A' FAMLY HSTORY- ..':) :"? denly put to death, and thus gain the reputation of a martyr among his fanatical brethren.  "He knows,") said he, "that he can't live; and let him lie and suffer not only the pain of his wounds, but the penalty of his crimes, and the horrors of a guilty conscience. And, after all that, we shall have none the less satisfaction of seeing him hanged and die infamously, like a dog, and none - not one - to pity him. But: you; piooi; -ools! would shoot him at once; and there is not a slave within forty miles but would steal ,away at night, and plant flowers on his:grave." This view of the case so accordedlwith the devilish passion of theo multitude, that, after it had been concurred in by Gen. Churchill, in a short speech,, more out of spite to?res- ton than because he really approved, was assented to by the crowd; and Churchill, who regarded the vote in its favor as a tribute to his own eloquence, proposed that they should adjourn to, the hotel, andhe would treat the crowd.' This' motion was carried; and Walter Ihad escaped that i death which he had supposed was inevitable. ' : I ^ .  ' .  . * .'" I i;       ' :   220      GOMrBeY OF MONTGOM  Y'ER CHAPTE      XVI. "God I Horatio, what a wounded name I Things standing thus unknown shall live behind me."- -HAMLET. THE excitement that prevailed throughout F--- County, and indeed through the whole State, and even the whole South, when the news spread of the successful hegira of so many valuable chattels, was nearly as great as it was some years after, when the "Old Dominion," the mother of states- men, and grandmother of pygmies, was invaded and captured by that distinguished person whose soul has ever since been "marching on." Nothing else was talked of or thought of. The newspapers far and near were full of the matter. A crimne had been committed, exceeding in atrocity the Guy Faux Plot, or the Massacre of Sint Bartholomew.  The circumstances of the escape were detailed with perverted minuteness; and the crime of Walter Gomery, whose name, ?owever, was never permitted to appear in print, was por- trayed in colors so repugnant, that, compared with him,' S    htudas Isaot as a respectable and honorable itizen, Cati- 'ine a virtuous, well-deserving patriot, and all the Borgias y xemplary Christians. It was said of him that he had come, like a wolf in sheep's clothing, into the midst of a commu- bity where all was peace,--a very Arcadia of content and liatriarchal bliss; that with words of virtue and love on his Tiongue, and infernal hypocrisy in his heart, he had plotted m n escape of a hundred and fifteen slaves, the most valua- ble in the country, worth at least a thousand dollars each; -mnd this, too, at the very time 'he was receiving food and ishelter from the very menm he was seeking to rob of their !)roperty, - property not only allowed -by the Constitution, but property of an especially sacred character, inasmuch as it was sanctioned by the divine law, and ordained in the curse pronounced against Ham and all his descendants. There- tn scpeofa udrd ndfiten lve, hemot a/a   -A PAMLY HSTORY.        221 fore Was he doubly, trebly, atrociously wicked; for he not only sought to despoil men of their property, but to weaken the institutions of the country, and sap the foundations of religion. Hence he was declared a thief, a traitor, and an infidel.                     i "But,' said these truthful chroniclers, "it was from no love to the slave that he had done this." Oh, no!, let not his sym- pathizers and abetters say that. His papers had been searched; and it had been found that he wasionly a hireling, a paid instrument of the fanatics and free-thinkers of the North, to entice away slaves, before content, from their homes; for each of whom that left his master he was to be paid the sum of fifty dollars by the antislavery men of the North, and fifty dollars more by the slaves themselves when their fi'eedom was attained. Indeed, this "cute"Yankee had a nice scheme for making a small fortune. With no dan- ger to himself, he thought to organize his abominable- con- spiracy, and, when the parties to it had escaped, to leave quietly and unsuspected, and pocket his ill-gotten gains. He saw his plans successfully matured; and, every thing had worked favorably to the scheme which his devilish ingenuity had devised, when, unexpectedly and providentially, a steam- el arrived ere it was too late to overtake the fugitives. But. 1this scoffer, this infidel, refused to see a special providence in this unlooked-for arrival, but deliberately went on board the vessel; and, when escape seemed impossible, he boldly and profanely disabled the pursuing claft, and then sought to shield himself by deliberately murdering a mulattq slave, head. waiter' of the steamboat, and-then accused him of hav- ing caused the disaster, and alleged that he had shot him in his indignation at the deed. And worse than that, even! It was proved by a bigh- toned Southern gentleman - on his honor too, and of course it was true - that this doubly-dyed villain was willing, for a consideration, to prove false both to his employers at the  North, and the slaves he was corrupting; that he had told him if 'he would pledge his word to secrecy (which a South- ern gentleman, it was well known, would sooner part with his life than violate), then he would impart to him some- thing important, on condition that. he would engage to pay him -as much for disclosing it as he was sure to make by keeping it a secret.. But the gentleman, unfortunately, was 19*.   ^2 2     GOoMERPY OF MONTGOMERY.: a Virginian, and too sensitive on points of honor, and would "ake no terms with the canting, cringing, thrifty Yankee; anld so: his plot was undiscovered till it was too late. This part of the story was first learned at Lancaster from those organs of truth, the "Richmond Enquirer," "Examiner," and "Whig;l" and thought here was much search for this high- toned, chivalrous Virginian, he could not be found. -:While all these perversions were circulating through the press of the entire country, Walter lay in prison, closely guarded and watched. - His wound, though severe and pain- ful, was not serious; and the doctor whom Kingsbury had ordered the jailer to call had treated him professionally. He had extracted the ball; and, as no bones were seriously fractured, he left Nature to effect a cure. But there was great uneasiness, not only in the vicinity of Lancaster, but throdghout all slavedom. The temerity of the man had caused lim to be feared. The flight of so many slaves was so unexpected, that people feared even their own shadows. If so many of the most faithful and well-con- t ducted could plot so heinous a crime, who of them could be trusted? Who knew what other conspiracies were in pro- cess of incubation-? There were other Yankees about,- some schoolmasters, some tradesmen, some mechanics, - all, however, engaged in low and undignified occupations. But thEiere were no gentlemen of that breed there; none who kept their horses and dogs, or who had that fine sense of honor that would blow off the top of ran offending head at the suspicion of an insult. All these low-bred people within fifty miles of Lancaster were given to understand, by hints and threats, that they must leave that -part of the land of liberty. One of them, an entire stranger to Walter, having tmade all his preparations to return North, preferred a request to be permitted to visit the great criminal. His request was politely complied with, but coupled with this condition, that he must first -lay aside his ordinary clothing, and accept a suit of tar and featihers.- This joke was so good, it set up the perpetrator for a wit, and finally carried him into Congress. During the time of- Walter's convalescence, he was visited by several of the most important and influentiaLmen in the neighborhood. They were generally prompted by a vulgar Curiosity to'see a man capable of 'such an act as he had jcomxmitted. Among others came a: certain Dr. Laney, who     A FAMLY HSTORY         ,'223 was no longer a practising physician, but a rich planter; having, a few years before, married the richest- heiress in -Geoigia, with a plantation so well stocked with fat negroes, that an Ilrish exiled patriot might have envied him. He was usually accompanied by a young lawyer, -a man about- thirty years of age, by the name of Larcomb, who had lived some years at Lancaster, but who, notwithstanding his orthodox politics, had but a starving business. -In fact, but: for the small jobs thrown in his way by Lancy, he would probably have been obliged to give up his profession, and take to ithe more lucrative business of overseeing; The former's object ostensibly was to consult with Dr. Jones on the condition of 'his patient: But, in reality, he and his friend Larcomb:came as spies; thinking thai, by getting him into conversation,lhei might be drawn to implicate others, But in this they neces- sarily failed, from the fact that there was nobody to impli- cate. Bafflediin this, they told the jailer to let nothing pass between him and theoutter world until it had gone through - their hands. Larcomb, however, continued his visits, and his efforts to draw something .from the prisoner that should I entitle him to that gratitude of the public which should bring business to his office.            f As had been foreseen by these two attentive visitors, Wal- ter, when sufficiently recovered to be able ;o write, requested permission to send letters to his friends. He was assured that his request should be granted; and accordingly he wrote to his father and mother a full and complete history of his life from the time he left the house of his brother-in-law in Philadelphia. This letter he. was just sealing up one day, when Dr. Lancy entered; and thinking that - perhaps, from his position, he would be above the despicable meanness of tampering with a private -etter, he requested him to have it mailed. He had not yet learned, that, when men make a god of slavery, it matters little how high or low their position:-N "Thetrail of t he serpent is over them all." The doctor assured him, "on' his honor," that the letter should be mailed that very day. But, the second day after- wards, he was led to believe that it had not been sent, but that, on the contrary, its contents-were known by sundry people in Lancaster, who, notwithstanding their high sense of-hornor, were, it seemed, up to tricks of which the meanest   224-      GOMERY OF MONTGO3E1RY : Yankee he had ever known would be- ashamed. An allusion i was made by Larcomb to his connections in New Y0rk and' Philadelphia; and as he had never mentioned to a soul, since he first took passage on the "'Good Intent," that he ,had even an acquaintance in either of those places, lie knew that the seal of his letter had been violated,- an offence de- clared a felony among people who are simply civilized and honest, and not " high-toned,' "honorable,"' or "chivalrous."  While waiting for an answer, however,-if perchance his I letter had been resealed, and forwarded after having been i reade and an answer to it should be allowed to reach him,- he was indulged in the, favor of reading the Southern papers, which, with characteristic kindness, were sent to him by Dr. Lancy. But what was his surprise, on reading them, to find himself magnified into a person of great notoriety and importance. In fact, the papers from Baltimore to New Orleans werle filled with him and his doings. Through them, he learred, for the first time, that he was a paid agent, -a hireling of those disreputable characters at the North who were opposed to the, divine institution of human slavery. With an ingenuity that would have done credit to an inquisitor, they represented him as a selfish schemer, paid for the woi'k he was engaged in; as an ingrate, who had won his way into the regards and confidence of those he intended all the while to betray, and rob of their property; that he had been moved to what he'had done by no feeling or sympathy with the slave, as it was clearly shown by his papers that, he was a paid tool of men more cautious, if not more wicked, than himself. Besides the accounts and comments of the Southern papers,- they contained various extracts from the press of the North, all of which concurred in depicting him as the most infamous of mankind. -If other papers expressed different ' opinions, he was not allowed to see them; but several of : those he did receive had commented on the tone of the Northern press, and said it was greatly to their credit, that, with scarce an exception, they spoke in the strongest con- demnation of the hideous and unnatural act; and some of thetm candidly admitted there must be something entirely wrong in the social condition- of the North, when it could produce such a monster.  The jailer, ,who brought him the package of papers con. , -          '*    A FAMLY HSTORY.     :   225- taining all this, remained, carefully observing the effect they had on his prisoner. But he moved never a muscle, nor said A word. The turnkey, however, was not able to repress his curiosity; and after Walter had been reading an hour or more, and had laid down one, paper to take up another, he said,- "Well, what do you think now?" '. "Think?" said Walter: "I foresaw it all; and I am con- ' tent." Being convinced in his own mind that his letter to his father had not been forwarded, Walter made no inquiries for an answer; and, when asked by-Larcomb--who continued to visit him frequently, more as a Slpy upon -she jailer than from any further hope of inducing him to inculpate others-if it were not about time for him to hear firom his friends at the North, he replied, "No; for my letter was not sent." The lawyer was fiercely indignant at this, and told him he was a liar. A few days after this, the paper of the town, the "Lancaster Stat;" contained a statement that a letter had been received by Dr. Lancy, written at the request of the father of the unhappy young man who lay in plison -awaiting the punish- ment due to his crimes; and that he. utterly disowned his child, and disclaimed all knowledge of his acts, or of his intentions'previous to his goinir South; that the old man, who was a very respectable man, was very much grieved at the wayward and wicked conduct of his erring son; that he was utterly cast down and depressed'at his unnatural con- duct, and so deeply felt the shame he had brought upon him and 'his house, that he had forbidden his name ever to be, mentioned in his presence; and that, were it in his power to rescue him from the position in which his own bad acts had placed him, he would not lift a finger to do it; for asc he had sown, so he must reap. But, in all the papers that he was allowed to see, he observed that his name was never given. He was lusually designated as the young Caliban.  The object of thhs suppressing his name   he could only surmise; but taken with the studied perversions of his acts, the transparent falsehoods in regard to the manner in which his father had received the news, it appeared clear to him that the purpose was to preclude his friends at a  distance. from knowing or suspecting .his -fate              *   ,   226      GO0MERY OF' MONTGOMERY: until the curtain should fall on the last scene of the tragedy. That his death, and- the manner of it, would be subsequently- kn'own to them, he did not doubt. But what would be the story of his- offences? He would doubtless be represented, as he had been already, as the -most despicable wretch that ever crawled upon the ealth. All these reflections passed through his mind; yet he never repined, nor regretted his acts. His mental exclamation was ever the same, 'It is what I bargained for; and I am content." Still hisg estimate of the exalted character and nice sense of honor of those into whose power he had fallen was not so hgh but that he thought he would be justifiedl in circurii- venting, to. a celrtain -extent, their designs. Though he regalded his own fate with remarkable indifference, yet he was racked and-- tortured that when the news of it reached. the- Pivot, perverted and distorted as it was sure to be, it would send the gray hairs of both -father and mother in sorrow to the grave. What he most feared was that he, wouild bq represented as a cowardly repentant, when he was convinced, if they knew'the whole facts, if they could hear his story, they would approve and justify him in what he had done. "Av," said he to himself, "if I obeyed their instruc- tions and examples, I could not have done otherwise. My father would have done the same in my position. Thank God,:when the trial came, I did not falter, or shrink from my duty!" Was it possible to- communicate with his father? He was closely watched; and no one was ever allowed to converse- vith him, whose fidelity to slavery could, for a moment, be called in question. While thinking on this matter, he was interrupted- by the entrance of Larcomb, who came to see him much oftener than he was welcome. "Why do you come here?" said Walter "Have you any sympathy with me or my acts?" "God forbid," said the lawyer, " that I should have any sympathy with you! The truth is, if you must know, I come to see that every thing is safe, and frodm a sense of patriotism."  "I conclude, then, you haven't much else to do, as patriot- ism is, said to be the last resort of a scoundrel!" "Were it not for your wounds, I would' soon mend your manners, said the lawyer.                 . l,.     .     A PAMLY HSTORY. -       227 "In my wounds is my only danger from such as you," replied Walter. c"You come on me as a spy, and you intend to report all you can hear to my prejudice. But I can show you a joke worth half a dozen of that. In fact, I can throw a handsomne fee in your way." "But you have no money to pay for your defence," an- swerel: the lawyer, not observing that his own words betrayed him, until they were uttered. "But do you want to turn an honest penny, or rather make a handsome fee?" "It Wroutld be very dangerous," replied the attorney, casting his eyes about to make sure that he was not overheard, and in a manner that clearly showed that he waspa candidate for anybody's, money. "Not. the least danger," said Walter. "I will put it in - your power to realize two thousand dollars, and no one sus- pect you, if you, will only do me a favor which you can easily do. "  "Look here, stranger: though I did feel rather prejudiced against you at first, and p'raps used some hard talk, I always did think you was a gentleman;, and I will do any thing you ask me, so it is safe, and I get paid what is-fair.": "Well, then, could you go North, and hbe gone for a week or ten days, and not excite suspicion?"  "You are trying to escape; and .my conscience would not allow me to help you do that." "No: nothing of the kind.- I know I must die, and that it is perfectly useless 'to try to escape. All I hope before that is to send a letter North; and if you will take it, and bring me back asn answer that -will prove that mine has been received, I will make you sure of two thousand dollars." "But will nobody blow on me?"         ' "' No: I will make you feel safe on that score." "Well, stranger, you must give me time to think of this. It seems very fair on your part; and if you will make it all safe, and will pay me well, I am as willing to do a fellow a. good turn as any other high-toned gentleman." Walter had not mistaken his man; and the same night he set to work :to write out a full account of the unfortunate affair in which he had been involved. The story is known to the reader. At its conclusion, he told how his conduct had been intentionally misrepresented; and, if he -did not find   228      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: some way to make known the real facts, his death would be learned of through the papers, and he would be represented as having committed many cowardly and disgraceful acts; whereas he had done nothing that he would not, under the same circumstances, do again. To make sure that his letter should reach them, however, he had been obliged to promise the bearer of it two thousand dollars,--fifteen hundred of which was to be paid on delivery of the letter, and the other five hundred when the answer was. received and delivered into his hands, by an order of his father on himself in favor of Walter, to be indorsed when an answer to his- letter should reach him in prison. Such were the terms made with Larcomb; and that enter- prising patriot found means to excuse his absence firom Lan- caster for a few days- by saying that his brothel; who lived near Baltimore, had lately died and left him a little property. But this serviceable patriot was still very much afraid of being suspected; nor was he quite sure that he was not run- ning into danger by venturing North and making known his errand. Walter was therefore obliged to read to him that part of his letter concerning the terms of payment, and also the part, in which he enjoined it on his father, that, after receiving the letter, he should keep strictly silent, nor make any move in his behalf until the bearer had left, and had time to get a good distance back, on his return home. "I have promised," he added, "that his safety shall not be compromised; and I have only to say this to make sure of its righteous fulfilment."  Thus fortified with Walter's letter, and a weed on his, hat, the self-sacrificing patriot set forth on his journey.   A .AMLY HSTORY.        229. - C H A P-TER   -XVII. Ad In distant countries have I been  And yet I have not often seen A healthy man, a man-full-grown, Weep in the public roads alone."-- WORDSWORTH, IT was about the middle or towards the latter pait of November, and among the last days of the Indian summer, that Freeborn Gomerr was sitting in his large arm-chair in front of the house, thinking over the late events of his life, and gazing with a mournful eye at the sun, that was now but a little above the horizon, and, through the haze and smoke, looked dull and red, when he observed a stranger approach- inrg the house. He had a suspicious and timid look; and the old man arose to meet him, and asked him to take a chair that was standing near his own. The stranger com- plied; and then casting his eyes about in all directions,--.as if fearing to: be observed or overheard, he said in a half- whisper, "Is your name Gomery? It is, sir." "Freeborn Gbmery?" "Yes, sir: Freeborn Gomery." :"Can I have a few words in private with you?" "Most certainly!  Here is a good place for it." "Well, then," said the stranger, again looking around, as fearing intrusion, "I must have a clear understanding with you before i begin. I must have a promise from you not to expose ine." "But, my good sir, I am  no longer a practising lawyer; and, if you want counsel, you must go elsewhere; and, be- fore you begin, let me tell you that I am fully determined never to try another case in court. Therefore it is better you should not give me your confidence." "You mistake my object," said the other, "I do not want counsel or law  service. - I want money. I have come-to you for that, and from a long distance; and, if you were to VOL., II.     20   230     GOMERY' OF MONTGOMERY: hear my story, youn wuld not allow me to depart without it. But, before I tell you any thing more, I must know that you Till, not use the information I shall give you to my disadvan- tage. If I give you information that you desire to have, and cannot otherwise get, will you promise not to use it to my * injury?" Of course, I could promise anybody that; but, as my im- pression is that it is some affair that does not concern me, you had better not reveal it to me.'   - "It concerns you to know it more than any man in the world."  The old man looked curiously and incredulously at the stranger, utterly at a loss to conceive what he had to confide to him. But he saw. the man was in earnest, and very anx- ious for his own safety. 'He assured him his confidence should not be abused, and that no word he might utter should ever be construed to his injury or prejudice.' The stranger then drew from the inner pocket of his coat a sealed package,and, handed it to the other saying, "On honor." "On honor," said Gomery, taking the package, and looking at the superscription. "Why, this," said he, starting up, -this is from my son, my Walter! Then you know him? A good boy is Walter." He, was proceeding to break the seal; when the stranger stopped 1him, saying,- "Before reading this, you will allow me to go. I shall stop in the hotel in) the village till day after to-morrow morning, when I shall leave, as I came, by the stage. I shall be prepared to take any messages you may have to send to your son, and you can find me any time to-morrow."' Saying this, the stranger walked away. The old-man looked at the letter again; but it was becoming too dark to read, so he puit it in his pocket; and, after seeing Ithat every thing about the premises was properly attended to and se- cured for the night, he entered the house. Then, bidding the servant put two lighted candles in: his private room, he entered, and'sat down before the fire that smouldered upon the hearth. His room was small and cosey, and opened into the large family parlor. It contained his library of miscel- laneous books, his writing-desk, and, all his private papers. -He had a misgiving that the letter in his hand contained unwelcome tidings; a dd he was studying over in his mind -.   A FAMiLY HSTORY.        231 what;it might be that had rendered it so necessary For the- bearer of it to approach him so cautiously 'and; mysteriously. I-e drew the letter from his pocket, and again looked at the address. The servant was just leaving the room: "Ask Mrs. Gomery to come in here," said he.    .    * Directly his wife appeared at the door. She was beauti- ful still, though the last two years had told upon her more than the preceding ten. Yet she was a -beautiful woman. It is true, there were many white hairs ;mingling with the black locks that were puffed out above her temples. Her cheeks had not the firesh tints of thirty or forty years before; but they still looked firm and hard, and her eyes had all the fire that distinguished the fair daughters of Judge Mackenzie of a past generation. She was tall and erect as ever;, and this summer evening she was dressed more youthfully than- -had been usual with her since the period when her anxiety: for Walter's absence first began to weigh on her life. "Well, Freeborri," said she, "what is it?"  He looked around; and she, with the quick instinct of love, saw that, though there was no cloud on his counte- nance, there was anxiety in his mind. She closed the door, and approached; and, leaning-over himri as he sat in his chair, she placed her left hand on his, shoulder, and laid her head as gently and lovingly against his as she had used to do in those  years when both were young, ay, and both were beautiful. Talk not of the beauty of youth! What -is it compared with the beauty of virtuous, healthy, contented maturity? No young couple standing at the marriage-altar ever pre- sented such a picture of real, noble beauty as did Freeborn Gomery and his wife at this moment. He, with his ample forehead, his heavy, projecting eyebrows, his firm lips, and tloughtful face, appeared the very embodiment and incarna- tion of massive and granite beauty as represented by they great masters of antiquity -in their conceptions of Jupiter and Hercules; while contrasting, with this was her ohalf- playful smile, her matronly dignity, her feminine delicacy, that made perfect the picture: for shedding a halo over all was that perfect love, that, through more- than thirty years' conpanionship, had set the seal of calmness and grandeur on the face of both.   . But the smile, half-playful, half-curious, that sat on the face   232      GOIERY OF' MONTGOMERY: of Mrs. Gomery when she first leaned her head over fier husband's shoulder, vanished in an instant when she saw the familiar writing on the letter which he held in his hand. Alasl that smile, was never to return to her face again; never, never, never! She took the seat at the left' of her husband, and, as if already impressed with a sense of the importance. of the letter, asked, '"What is it'? I know there is bad news' from Walter." "I have not read a word as yet; but the manner of the man who brought it leads me to suspect evil." "I knew we should have bad news from Walter. I have told you so every day for weeks; that something was going wrong with him; and, Freeborn, did you know what I went to the Perch for yesterday?"    , "Perhaps for the same reason that I went this morning."- "To, see if the angels were weeping?" "I went- for that purpose." !  "And they wept?" "! There was a constant trickling down their cheeks into the pool below." "It was so yesterday; and I knew we should have some dreadful news: then I dreamed of him last night, and he seemed to be translated, - poor boy! poor Walter!" "We -will read the letter now, my dear," said her husband; "and let us hope for disappointment in our fears." He then adjusted his spectacles, and, drawing the letter from its en. velope, began at the beginning, giving the place and date, "County Jail, Lancaster, F-- County, Ga." He read the letter from beginningi o end with an unfalter- ing voice. Walter had suppressed or extenuated nothing. He gave a minute and exact history of his life from the time he had last written to them. He told of the kindness ex- perienced from the Kingsburys; of his foreknowledge of the plot of escape ; of what he had seen of the evils of slavery; of the plan of the flight,; the pursuit, and the-means that he had taken to defeat it; the success of his daring act; and all the reasons and motives that had influenced him. He then alluded to the persistent and shameful system of falsehood that had been adopted to misrepresent his acts, and make- him infamous before the world. He said the newspapers   A FAMLY HSTORY.         233 had been filled with the most glaring misstatements,. repre- senting, him as a mere hireling, and, when caught, bitterly repentant, begging for mercy, and confessing all that they charged upon hinm; that only their version of his conduct could reach them, unless he adopted some extraordinary means to make known his own story; and therefore he had bribed the bearer of the letter to take it North, and deliver it into his father's hands; and had engaged, that, for this service, his father should pay him fifteen hundred dollars on delivery, and give him an order for five- hundred dollars more, payable when Walter's indorsement upon it should be procured. The indorsement was to be the evidence that the father's answer was delivered into the son's hands., The squire, having read the letter, turned, and looked at his wife. She was white and rigid as marble. Then he looked at the letter again, and exclaimed, "O Walter, Wal- ter I would that I could die for you!' "Die!" cried his mother: "die! he shall not die : he is an angel now." She arose, and walked about the little room. Then she sat down by the side of her husband, and said, "Freeborn, we must both go to him at once." "' My dear, it is impossible. The man who brought us the letter has done so at the peril' of his life; and, before he ' would deliver it, he exacted a promise from me that I would do nothing that might excite suspicion in regard to him, or expose him to danger. We must pay him as Waiter has promised, and, then he must be allowed to depart as quietly as he came; otherwise Walter can never know that we have received his letter. He must return, and carry word of its reception."    . "But, Freeborn, we can't do that: we must away.  Why need the man go back?  Let us send somebody else to carry our blessing. Let us, compensate him for all his losses and risks, and so detain him; and we will go down there, and I am sure, they will set Walter free."      - "Wife, that 6ould do Walter no good: it would only hasten his end. Do you think they would respect us after they have treated him so? More likely you would see these gray hairs insulted, and these old limbs torn asunder: No, wife: there is but one way for us. I promised this man, un- conditionally, to see him- safe away, and keep entirely quiet 20*   23.4  ;    GOMERY OF, MONTGOMERY: till he was so far off that no suspicion could follow him. Now, -what think you Walter would do, were he- in my. place?'      ,  . "Walter, Walter would "-- "Would not hesitate, but keep his word." -"Ay, Walter is not like other men: he never acted filom his babyhood like other children. He never knew tempta- tion: what was right and good and noble he always did as a matter of cotuse; and what was not so, he could see no reason for doing,:any more than if it were an impossibility. He never had ga thought of self in all his life. O Walter, Walter, my last-born, my dearest! you were always my pride, but never so much as now-!" : "Let us, then, do our duty; and do as he would were he in our place. Let us be worthy of a son so far above all others we have ever known, ay, or heard of, except him who died for his enemies. First, our duty is to reward this man, and send him. away."  "It is right, and it must be so; but it will kill me,-it will kill me!"  This painful interview was prolonged through the night. A dozen times, Mrs. Gomery left the room to retire to her own chamber, but as often she returned to renew the con- versation. Whatever might be done afterwards, it was clear that the messenger must be sent unharmed away. But it was not always an easy thing to raise fifteen hundred dollars in a day in the village of Montgomery. Gomery must scour the town next day, and get all that was to, be had; and, if! it was not. the amount required, he must then give an order on his son in New York for the balance.       \ At seven o'clock in the morning, he was at his old office in town. He first went to Caleb Thornton, jun., the principal tradesman in- the place, son of that Caleb Thornton, and- grandson of that Craig, who will be remembered as having figured. in the famous case of Craig vs. Cook.- Caleb told him he had made a remittance of a thousand dollars to his creditors in Boston the day before, and' had but about a hundred dollars that he could lay his hands on. "I don't believe that there is anybody in town who has any thing near fifteen hundred dollars," added Caleb, "unless it is Seth Mettlar; and he was telling me yesterday he wanted to let out twenty-five hundred dollars on bond and mortgage;" ,0o $    A .FAMLY.' HSTORY. -     35 Another tradesman had labout two hundred 'dollars on hand, which he told Gomery was at his servicei- adding the same remark that Thornton had made in regard to Seth Met- tlar. But Squire Gomery would none of Mettlar's money, and was only able to obtain six hundred dollars in the whole: town. With this he went to see the messenger at the hotel, and told him he woitld make up the balance by an order on his son in New Y   Brk. But the man, in his conversation with the people abou' the hotel, had learned, that, since Gomery's great lawsuit with Seth Mettlar, he had nothing in his own name, and in fact owned nothing. "Was his credit good?" the stranger asked. "Good!" replied Caleb Thorn- ton, sen., to whom the question was addressed: "any man in this place would trust him'for any amount he might ask for, without note or security. You must; be a stranger about here, I guess, not. to know the reputation that old Squire Gomery holds in these parts." Yet this did not satisfy the messenger. "How do- I1 know," said he, "that your son would pay the order? I have seen too much of that,thing. I've known heaps of men down South, high-toned gentlemen, and men of the nicest sense of honor, give such drafts when they knew they would not be .paid. iHave you any money in your son's hands?" j "No; but I am not the less sure the draft would be paid." "Well, you may be' sure; -but r am not., And howe do I know but that it is a trap laid to expose me'? Your - son  that we catched trying to run off our niggers promised me, that, if I would deliver that letter into your hands, you would- payme fifteen hundred dollars, and five hundred more after the" thingco6mes off."  "What thing comes- off?" ' I mean, after he is hung." A  cold perspiration stood on the forehead of Squire Gom- ery.  Never in all his life had man addressed him so before. He could not resent it, nor could he close the interview. "Stay," said he: ,' you shall have your money, if I sell my heart's blood." The) only way' to raise the money in time was to apply to Seth Mettlar. : Pride must yield; even self respect must be stifled. The man who had robbed him, and wronged him worst of all men in ithe: world, was the only one who could furnish the money that he must have". Hu- Miliating as it was,-he must apply to him.    :-   236      GOMERY -OF MONTGOMERY : He accordingly leftV the hotel, and bent his steps towards Setl's house.- Yesterday he would sooner have been seen entering/a den of shame. But between yesterday and to-day had rolled the sea of boundless sorrow. In appearance, he was very different this day from what he had ever beeh before. All who met him remarked the entire absence of his usual mirth, his free, hilarious manner. He was serious and abstracted; ad, if ally old friend or neighbor stopped him. for a few moments in the street to talk about any of the usual matters of interest about town, he gave no heed, but seemed to be thinking of something else. In fact, this change of manner had been observed by so many, that before noon it was reported by everybody to everybody in the vil- lage that there was serious trouble up at the Pivot. But, when it was reported that Squire Gomery had been seen to approach wand enter the splendid mansion of Seth Mettlar, the wonder of the people knew no bounds. What 'did -it mean? Matthew Staples, who lived half a mile from the village, beyond Seth's house, came in in the afternoon to in- quire what had befallen old Squire Gomery; for his little boy saw him walking away from Mettlar's, and he was a-crying. 'When Gomery knocked at Seth Mettlar's door, he was ushered into the sitting-room, where was sitting, musing alone, the wife of the man of business and rewarded virtue. The squire had not seen her -before for a year. But how changed was she fr6m what he had known her! . Then she had been blonde, beautiful, and sprightly. He" thought of the times before Walter went away, when he used. to see her very fiequently. He remembered the sweet, gentle voice, the merry ring of her laugh, the smile of most witching sweetness, that-disclosed two dimples, which, indeed, were scarce ever seen; for the merry, glancing eyes, and the round, red lips, that, parted, showed a pet of teeth of ivory white- ness, were ever diverting the eyes of the gazer from the peach-blown cheeks with their matchless: dimples. She had always 'been of slqnder form, with/ an airy, ethereal grace seen only once in ten thousand, of those who pass for beautiful. One could hardly imagine any thing material as pertaining to her. To Squire Gomery she had then seemed more like a fairy than a oman; and her very presence seemed to diffuse a glow of joy and happiness. It was such a being that Squire Gomery remembered; and-   A FAMLY HSTORY.        237 when he saw the wife of Seth 1Mettlar before him, the sight smote himr to the hea nrt. He had passed a harsh judgment on her once; but uow, when he saw her so changed and faded, so evidently miserable, he condemned himself, and not her.  "Is your husband in, madam?" was his first expression after entering.             ,            - She raised a look of such sad, beseeching grief to him, that his heart smote him again. Rising up, and partly sup- porting herself by her chair, she said, "He is in- his room. Ruth, tell Mr. Mettlar that Squire Gomery -wishes to see him." "I have some private business," said he, "and -had, per- haps, better see him in his office." "Then show him through the hall to Mr. Mettlar's room," said she to the servant. The maid led the way, opening the door into a long entry, at the farther end of which was Seth's private room, or office, where he performed his devotions, and figured up his accounts. In the former, even with his bright example constantly before her, she could never be induced to join her husband.  I Gomery followed the servant across the room, and was just passing through the door, when he felt a. slight touch on his arm.  He turned; and the woman was at his elbow, her face excited, her eyes suffused ; and in a hurried whisper she said, "Is it any news of Walter?  I know its something dread . ful. Tell him I am  dying." She sank into a seat as she said this; and the  old man replied, "It is news from Walter; and you are not the only one that is dying, or soon to die. 7 He passed through the hall, and entered the sanctum  of the man whose virtuous acts had been so signally rewarded as to confound all doubters in special providences. He- had a lot of papers before him that he was busily engaged upon  but: no sooner did his eyes rest on the tall form :of Freeborn Gomery than he turned pale, and a  look of conscious guilt, as if he felt that the hour of detection had come, overspread his face.  The other observed it, and rightly interpreted its meaning. But he had not come, to inspire terror; and the expression of his face clearly showed it. "Mr. Mettlar; said he, "you doubtless think it strange to see me here; -but an unforeseen event compels me to come."  .    -   . - 388  -  GOLiY OF MONTGOBMEERY: ' Ah!" said Seth, approaching, and offering a chair, "I am delighted to see you in my house! You make me very proud and happy I \ It is not Christian-like to remember our enmities, but to forgive and forget; and, before you ask me, I sqy I forgive every thing. Though you have harbored unjust feelings towaids me; I freely forgive you, and hope that henceforth we shall be good friends. Oh the delight it would, give my heart to meet you in our church (the only trUe church), and unite with you in singing hosannas to0 thie Lamb!"      9h :"Mr. Mettlar," said Gomery, : I have not come to talk of the past. I find I must have some money to-day; more than can, be found in town, except what is in your hands. I come to you to ask you to lend me nine hundred dollars for ten days; and this, too, though you have a large judgment against me that has never been paid, and never will be. This, how- ever, will be promptly paid if you choose to lend it to me." "Why, Mr. Gomery! it will afford me the greatest pleasure to accommodate you. But do take a seat. You can have , three times the amount, and as long as you like. I want to show yodu the forgiveness-that only those can feel who have put away the, carnal heart, and are regenerated into the new life, that my example may win others to the fold. O my dear Mi., Gomery! if I could only be the instrument of win- wing you to repentance, it would "-  I' I have no time to spare for conversation, Mr. Mettlar," faid "Gomery, still standing. "I am in a hurry; and, if you *il-let:- me have the money for a -few days, I will pay you principalt and interest, and a bonus besides if you ask it." "I don't ask interest. I am only too happy to serve your Do take a, seatl!"  The' lawyer still remained: standing;: and:Seth, seeing that his honeyed words: had no effect to draw him into a conversea tion, opened a drawer in his- desk,- and took outr a package of five-hundred-dcllar bills,: and i four others of a: -hundred Th dollars ach.          thatthe amount was - -Thb old man took them; tand, seeing that the amount-was o6rr eehtaidM"Wi. you write mee aote for this? :- ^.N. matt'er: abput- a Anote ;::amon ,:hotnorable men anid ' friends,;you know: ' it: dont signify;" 1 '-It *4I iust l:eave a:note,' " said- he: stepping up -to the! desk, and taking up p  an ,and Ipaper. A:sn: as he.:had: :written ,  . '. .   A FAMntY HSTORY.        280 the note and siged it, he, said,. "You are entitled to--my thanks for this, arid you have them;" and with this he walked from the room just as the servant entered and said to Met- tiar, "Will you, please, sir, come and see missis? :for she is took poorly.? The lawyer went directly to the tavern, and found the mes- senger,; and told him he had got the money. "This evening, however," said he, "I shall see you again. I shall give you an order on myself for five hundred dollars, to be paid when it- is returned -to me with the signature of my son, to prove: to hinim, before he dies, that we have got his letter, and to prove to me also, on its return for payment, that he received our letter to him.'      , "But it will involve me in no danger, will it?" said the other, thinkinhg only of the safety of his own wretched carcass.  Not the least," replied Gomery. ;' Oh, well; then it-is all right! I am mighty shy of you Yankees. If I was among Southern gentlemen, of course I would never think of being so particular." "I appreciate your Southern honor, and therefore don't ask you to be honest without paying you for it. After you return, you can probably get an' interview with my son; and, on delivering the messages of his mother and myself, he will sign the bill drawn to his order, and you can c6me .here again at such time as you like (after the whole affair- is. over, if you think it-safer),- and. I shall pay the money,: .or you can send it to:me-by mail; and, when it comes back:with - his indorsement, I will pay it, and sepd you the money by drafts:in duplicate; so that you will be sure to get it, and no .,' 'j t I .  " -  ,           Yit,: one but yourself will know where it comes from. I: never before paid money so willingly; and- sooner than have failed of receiving the letter you brought, or have received it whea it was- too .late for him to have got my answer, I would have given every thing I have in the world, and bound myself a slave for life,- yes, a slave: to that rascal Mettlar." -.  The messenger promised to: deliver faithfully, ,' as a man of honor," whatever Was intrusted :to him; and: the oldman left him, to return to the:Pivot to prepare, in conjunction with his wife, their messages to the unfortunate Walter.  ,' :Plate in the evening, the squire returnedto the. hotel, and w as:again loeseted with  the stranger. Of the latter visit, t            , ,                ,   240      GOMERY OF, MONTGOMEERY: nobody in the village suspected the object or purpose; but all surmised that great grief had fallen on the house of Gomery. Seth Mettlar, having been relieved of attendance on his wife by the entrance of her mother at one door at the moment Gomery left at the other, returned to his room, and fell into a profound reflection.' "It is strange," said he: " what does it me an? But I have got him now so he can't lord it over me any more. He's had to come down at last. I am afraid, though, I come it a little too strong on the religion. He's too old a bird to be caught with chaff. Bit I have him on the hip, and I'll make the most of it." Saying this, he sallied forth into the street, and walked towards the village, telling everybody he met of, Gomery's application for money; and, dwelling with great uaction on his own Christian forgiveness of a man who had so /vronged and slandered, him, he expressed the hope that his coming to him was adi act- of self-humiliation, indicat- ing a change of heart.   :  The next morning the stranger departed; ;and the town was as ignorant as ever of his business.    , Three days were to elapse before the lawyer could give a sign of what had been the errand of the stranger. He was not seen in the village during all that time. But some of the-more curious pr sympathetic of his neighbors had gone to the Pivoti and found that he' had changed wonderfully. He looked haggard and care-worn; and, whether true or no, they said that- his hair had changed from iron-gray to white. Mrs. 'Gomery-saw nobody; but the servants said that neither she nor her husband had slept a wink since the stranger arrived. They knew he had brought evil tidings of Walter; for his mother was all the time wandering about the house, and was often heard speaking his name. On the third day, orders weie given td have the carriage and horses ready for a journey. The afflicted patents bhad determined to hasten to New York: the journey was very 'different from what it had, beer -twenty years before, when the squire made the whole distance in his own carriage; for now it -was only ,twenty miles to a railroad: station. In theirhelplssness  to do any thing effective of themselves, they thought that perhaps the rich and influential friends of their other children might enlist the efforts and interven- tioni of the: State Governors, or perhaps of the President, in behalf--of Walter. All was prepared for setting out early w .d      q  .etn  u .ai   A F'AMLY HSTORY.        24- 241  the next morning; and the two farm-servants were sitting by the kitchen-fire, preparing to go tobed, when-the maidcame  - running in, and said her mistress was dying. They al r ushed into the parlor; and the woman was sitting in her arrn-chair as rigid as death, her eyes fixed, her face bloodless, and white as snow. The squire spoke to her; but she neither heard nor answer ed.       .   -        : Without orders, one of the! young men ran to' the stable, and,:mounting a cart-horse, galloped like: mad down tie. hill to the village; -and seeing a group in front of the tavern amoilg whom was old Dr. Cary and young Dr. Bacon, he dashed up to it, and, before he could be questioned, exclaimed Lady Gomery is a-dying!"Mat Staples, who had a horse and wagon Standing near, took the old doctor, arid drove'Off ata gallop; while the younger Esculapius mounted a saddled ho'rse  that stood by, and without asking who was the owner, or saying "By your leave,"soon left the old man intlile aririage i far in the rear.  Soon there was a rush of people towards the Pivot. Delica- cy no longer forbade their approach; for, if Death is supposed to be going before, he breaks down many bariers. p dThere was great confusion at the Pivot-when the doctors  arrived. Everybody was running, land ordering everybody else. -The old squire alone was calm. The doctors examineao the patient, who by this time, had been plaed po bed TheSy. pronounctibed i'case fpartia I p aarasis ltlfn ? eded to0 bleed, and giveO suih , " d c0trs:: stuff, at h a heardawas usually 'giVen; i:n sueh cases.: Tiheiouse w:a-;soon: -i crowded with people from the village; and all the old nrsk  { d rWOmen skildled i ushelring , people into: the world, ntdis- in g them decenrtly toleave it, flked with their ca"m ph0rs, Iheir catnip, their hbarhoufid, and thnor' hwort, to send,   :: nher assistaisce to the sufferer. Oneod la forgetful f the eason',carried;her old copper warminog-palh r'. X: ; Amoigothers :Seth IMettflar wen, if not to render assist , nee to toe nder: his condolence. Poor old Mr. Gemery was  )king iiganxiously athis wifet , whie the nurse was ruibbing  er forehead  d tdtmples. His face had;a tei iblc alniness 'A ut' the hard :lines made clearly visible the- deep ang uis th: :;. "as!(teain- g athisg, heart--strings.' As he' Stood 1ooig t hu, -  e iheard thy vice -of 'Seth :]ettlar raised above ai: the&; ,VOL.  1,   242      GOMERKY OF MONTGOMERY. sounds, save only the hard and distressed breathing of the patient. "In the midst of life, we are in death," said he; "and we should all take warning from this afflicting dispensation, and be :ready. O my friends! you don't know how my heart bleeds when I see so many going unprepared to 'judgment!"' The old man heard him thus far. At the first sound of his voice, a shudder passed through his frame, and his look of pain changed to one of horror and disgust. The thought went through his mind, that, if his wife were to see and recog- nize Mettlar, the sight of him would strike her dead; for, even unconscious as she was, she started tip at the tones of his voice, and stared wildly around as if they had a power to infuriate. "Walter, Walter, Walter!" she cried, and sank back exhausted on the bed. The squire could bear this no longer. He knew that Seth's presence was the insult of a hypocrite, and was endangering the life of one worth a thousand Met- atlrs. He advanced towards him, and, with a look-before which the snake quivered and shrunk, he uttered, in a deep whisper that caused all who heard it to recoil, "Leave this house, and never darken my doors again!"  The chapfallen wretch sneaked off, not daring to raise his \ eyes, yet casting back a Parthian retqrt: "It is just as I expected: how can we ex- pect gratitude from the ungodly?" The night wore off; and towards morning, what with the bleeding and the medicine, it seemed pretty clear that this shock was not to be fatal; and the old doctor told the squire to cheer up, for he now thought that his -wife would yet re- cover.                      we , She did, indeed, recover; but she was hanging, as it were, between life and death, during those precious hours which they had hoped to have employed in behalf of Walter.- As soon, however, as his wife had sufficiently regained her conscious- ness to recall the past, she insisted that he should leave her, and go alone to New York, and see if something could not be done to avert the impending and fatal blow from their un- happy boy. When, therelore, he perceived that all immediate danger to his wife was past, he diparted accordingly; and, as no one in the village besides themselves yet knew the cause of all these strange and mysterious movements, the curiosity of people was piqued,: and shme said it was unfeeling in him to go off leaving his-wife in so weakly a condition. Seth   A FAMLY HSTORY.        2 43 Mettlar said, "It was the act of an ungenerate reprobate, and that, if he had not paid the note the minute it was due,he would have sued him, and had him arrested. Kindness was thrown away on such ingrates! It must henceforth be war, as before..'! He had been gone but a couple of days, when a newspaper, that found its way to Montgomery, let in a flood of light on the mystery of the strange proceedings that had lately been witnessed at the Pivot. .There had been various accounts, in the public journals that came to the village, of the escape of a large number of slaves from Georgia; and, in all of them, it had been said that they had been instigated to the act by a rascally Yankee, who was to have so much a head for all that escaped; that said Yankee was an infamous character, who had been twice in the penitentiary, - once for forgery, and once for horse-stealing; and that, while in Georgia, he had been found several times in the negro-quarters, making love to the wenches, causing great scandal and disgust in that moral and virtuous community. But his name was -never given; he was usually called the young Caliban: and conse- quently the quiet village of Montgomery was not a little startled at learning from a New-York paper that the name of the culprit was at last ascertained, and that it was Walter Gomery, of Montgomery, -State ofr--; and that he be-' longed to a very respectable family, on whom he had brought great shame and sorrow by his perverse and wicked life. It has been seen that the town of Montgomery, in the course of its history, was subjected to many exciting incidents. But never had there been so great an excitement as when this news was received. Everybodywas dumfounded; and yet everybody  talked about it. But, though everybody talked, there was only one man to do any thing.  That one was Seth Mettlar. He at once sat down and wrote a letter, which he addressed to the postmaster of Lancaster, Fr -- County, Ga.  In this letter he said, that having observed in a newspaper a notice of a young man by the name of Walter Gomery, who had been caught- in the mon- strous crime of enticing away slaves (and who was held as a prisoner to answer for the act), his conscience would not let him rest until he hadi informed the authorities having him in charge of the true character of their prisoner, and of the plans and machinations of his abetters. The father of this :. . . .       ,  .   :t ,   244      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: young culprit was as bad as hiqmself, and was, no doubt, a party to his crimes; and, when he heard that justice was like to overtake his vagabond son, he immediately raised a large sum of money, and went-away, and doubtless a desperate effort would be made to rescue the criminal. The letter was concluded by a series of moral reflections, in which the im- - piety and wickedness of those who sought to- destroy ouxl glorious Constitution by setting free those whom -God had oldained -to be slaves, as shown by the curse pronounced against Cantaan, was denounced with great propriety and unction. What a reprobate he must be who :objected to the practice of ilaising babies to sell, when it was so clearly of divine origin, besides being profitable! e When the old man reached New York, he had no iidea what he was-going to do. He consulted his oldest son and son-min-law and daughters; and his second son, Wirtimir, came on frorm Philadelphia to advise with them on the unfortu- nate occurrence. They were allin deep affliction; but what could they' do? The old man iproposed to go down to Geor- gia, and intercede with :those who held his son a prisoner; for he said they would surely respect his gray hairs. But  the children would not listen to it; for they said, that, instead of relying Vfaltelr he would only share his fate. They wouid, however, interest all the men of influence::they could ap- proach, senators, members of Congress, and others, who had been as obedient to the behests -of the South, and had ab- jitd their: own manhood as effectually, as if they had them- selves been slaves, to write letters lto the leading men :of the! South, and epdeavor to 'enlist their interference; aind Wit- timir, on his return, was to go on to Washington, and intercede for the good: offies of the President- But the sb:ns did:not iregard the 'act of Walter: in' the -same light 'as did the father. ' .He looked upon it as most exalted, and sub. limely heroic. They felt, that, howeve noble and self-sacrifi-:" ciag his motives, he had, in the existing state of public opinion, disgraced: his family. It'was the custom -to speak contemp-, tiously' of those who interfered with ::the sacred; institution ; and a::man incurred less obloquy if caught robbing the mail, dorbreaklbng 'i bank-vaulit thanl if detected giving food :and shelter toa f eeing fugitive. His sons- in the whirl of busi- 'i;es, :iand' surroiinded; by those intent oh money-making, had i mbibeld the^ideash of the Mammon-worshippers ,and,-as long as: slavery paid, thought that it was wrong to disturb it.   A FAMLY HSTORY.        245 -With this poor consolation, Gomery of Montgomery re- turned to his own home. - The, means proposed. by his. other sons for the relief of mTalter, he felt conscious,;could .do no good. Nor could he'Ithink of any thing more effectual; and, as he reflected on the matter, he said, "I shall see his face no more.! : He!has been a good boy, and has gladdened my heart a thousand times; and for thatlet God be thanked! The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away: blessed. be the name of the Lord!" The bringer of unwelcome news to the house of Gomery had returned to his home, and found that no suspicion was entertained of what he had been doing.  He had found opportunity to deliver the letter of the old squire to Walter, and to get his order indorsed by him; after which his mind was easy, and he was well satisfied that he had iserved bhimself to good purpose, at the same time that he had preserved his honor. The letter of Mettlar was received within a couple of days after Larcomb's return, and it excit- ed great astonishment, not so- much at the information it contained, as at the noble sentiments it expressed; and the remark passed round, that it was strange how so bright a light could exist in so dark a place. But as to the, rescue, if - there should be any signs' of an attempt of thaft kind, they would nip it in the bud, and "take a bond of fate." But, the next day, a paper from the North contained an account of the arrival of the "Good Intent" at Boston,  where she had been sold, and her passengers and crew had all, i continued theit way towards the north star, hoping to reach so high a latitude, that the ground would no longer hold the scent for the human hounds that might be put upon the track. They fled from -a land of freedom to a land of des- potism. Benighted souls! They toldMthe story of their own escape, with this addition to what was already known of it, - that they were suspected at the last moment by a Yankee schoolmaste;, who, soon after they started, gathered a com- pany of overseers and planters, that pursued them on a fast steamer, which chanced to come in a few hours after they left, and were on the point of capturing them, when the ' Steaner,' by a special Providence, was disabled or blown up, and they all escaped -to sea.. So it seems that special Provi- dence had) his' hads full, -first in providing a steamer in the nick of time to catch the runaways; and next in break-   246      GOMERY OF MONITGOMERY: ing the engine when they were about to do it; then in far- nishing a victim for sacrifice, whose fate should be a warning to Sdeter other like attempts; and lastly by giving good breezes to the fugitives to encourage others to do likewise, But, from time immemorial, Providence always interferes on the side of those who recognize his, hand, and in favor of theirdoxy, and against their enemies and their doxy; but all regard him as a most orthodox intermeddler, *     \    A FAMLY HSTORY.         247 -    1'    '  ', '     **     ? CHAPTER     XVIII., M Give sorrow words: the grief that does not speak Whispers, the olerfraught heart, and bids it break.--ACBETH. THE wisdom of ages of experience has been condensed into a few maxims. Inevitable resultsfrom given premises have become proverbs; and the forces of Nature, in both the moral and material world, have, through the convictions of centuries, become axioms of truth to men, so common and / familiar, that they are accepted as infallible rules of action. The equilibrium and equivalents of Nature are felt, rather than believed, to pervade the universe; and men believe and act in a thousand things,: in violation of their own reason and perceptions, from the influence of a power extraneous to themselves. Men will admit all the premises- that logically and inevitably lead to a certain result; and yet they will utterly and unhesitatingly reject the natural conclusion. Neither subtlety of argument, nor sophistries, nor success, can prevent the majority of people fi;om a correct apprecia- tion of what is intrinsically right or inherently wrong. There is in Nature a sort of balance-wheel, which men call moral power, that, in spite of superstition or prerogative or igno- rance or ambition, asserts its sway, and finally sets its seal upon all. This moral power is the divine :part of human nature; and, like the bow in the cloud, is set in the heart of man as a sign that darkness will never again overspread the earth. Neither wealth nor station, nor showy parts, nor plausible manners, avail in the long-run against the deep convictions, the intelligent judgment, and every-day life, that constitute moralworth, and bear a moral weight in the coun- sels of men. The balance of the public mind may be dis- turbed, for a time, by transient influences; but moral power sooner or later asserts its superiority, and commands respect, even when its voice comes up from the depths of adversity and sorrow.   248      'GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY:- The truth of these platitudes and commonplaces was emi- nently illustrated by the position hbeld in Montgomery by Freeborn Goirery, after he had been despoiled of his proper- ty, and bitter domestic sorrow had invaded his home. Seth Mettlar had triumphed in every thing; he had become rich; he bad seen the man whom he most hated, because he had wronged him, crushed by other afflictions; and he bad plant- ed a barbed arrow in his heart by robbing him of one whom he had regarded alni0st as his own child, and who, with that , son now about to die an infamous death, was to have been the solace and staff of his declininzg years. He was now the richest man in the place; and ,to carry forward any public work or improvement, he must, first of all, be consulted. And yet he was not the happy man he had expected to be. There was always a Mordecai in his gate, and that Mordecai was' Freeborn Gomery. He felt that people did not and would not respect him; that-the man of real power and influence, in spite of all hir-afflictions and adversities, was Gomery of Montgomery. A suspicion soon got abroad, too, that he was not so happy at home as newly married people are supposed to be: 'though he invited much company to his house, yet few visited it, and those few always had the same story to tell. Seth.-tried excessively to be agreeAble; but his wife was a statue. She never had a word of welcome at the entrance of former friends and schoolmates, or of regret 'at their de- partur e; and they found the atmosphere of the house sh som- bre and chilling, in spite of bright lights, warm fires, and Seth's forced smiles, that they soon gave up such. unsatisfac- tory visits. A  few months after the marriage, it was observed that ieven Mrs. Homer did not talk in so self-sat- isfied a manner of the marriage and settlement of her daugh- ter. Her son Obed was leading a dissipated life, and fast squandering his father's property; and, as she thought of this, she consoled herself, that, at any 'rate, Heater had married a. rich man. Poor old Thomas Homer was growing old apace. He had never shared itn his wife's or' his son's plans to compass the ruin and misery of his daughter; and he now blamed himself for his passive assent. Why had he not asserted his author- ity in time? Alas! in his doting fondness for his first-born, he'had allowed him, during the long and painful suffering that, had resulted fi'om the accident to his leg, to become t9   A FAMLY HSTORY.,        249 master of the house. In his paternal love and tenderness he allowed the sceptre to pass from his hands; and hemhad never regained it. After the marriage, Obed, greatly to his surprise, found that. his affectionate brother-inlaw did not re- spond so readily as before to his applications for money, Somehow, though always anxious to serve him, he was just then very hard up. ,It occurred, therefore, to the yoiun scion, that it would be a dutiful act for him to-relieve his aged sire from the cares of his property, and assume them himself. So he consulted with his mother and:his brother- in-law; and it was agreed among them all that-the old man -had best deed his property all to Obed, and the latter would engage to take care of him  and his mother, tenderly and carefully, to the end of their days. When this scheme was first mentioned to the old man, he stronly disapproved of it, as Obed had foreseen.  He had also foreseen that he would soon give way; and in this, too, he was not disappointed. No sooner, however had : the writings been drawn, and the property duly made over to the son, than he mortgaged it, for less than its value, to Seth, receiving back all the due-bills he had ever given him, and eight hundred dollars besides. As the summer advanced, Mrs. Homer admitted to some ofV her elderly acquaintances that Hester was poorly, and she had advised Mr. Mettlar to take an excursion with her to Bos- ton; and he had promised to do so, and she was going to accompany them.  They were making6 preparations for this journ ey at-the time  of the arrival of the ill-omened messenger at the Pivot with the news from  Walter. It was observed by Mrs. Homer that her daughter was getting much worse soon after that; and she insisted go strongly on having her taken to Boston for medical advice, that Seth, having put his business in order, and written the letter to the Lancaster postmaster, set forth for the city of-perplexed streets and civil policemen. Here the most famous physicians were consulted in regard to Hester's health; and, much to 'the relief of her mother, they all said that she was only suffering .under some slight mental depression, and needed excitement, exercise, and so- ciety to render her as well as ever. As the town of Nahant was famous for its sea-air, its long drives along the hard beach, its fashion and folly, it was decided that this was the place, for them to go in order to recruit the invalid's health.   250      , GOMERY OP M]ONTGOMERY: After a few days' delay, therefore, in the city, the paity moved to Nahant; and the mother and daughter were quar- t tered in the best rooms in the principal hotel. Having seen them thus well bestowed and provided fo;r, Seth returned to Boston to attend .to certain affairs of business, and, as a rich man, astonish strangers, and cut acquaintances who had known him as a mousing, briefless attorney. ' It was during this period that he first met with Joe Pum- pagin at the City Hotel, where the latter astonished and shocked him by his marvellous stories, and his dissertations on Shakspeare, at the same time that he consoled him with flip; until at last, by his strong language, he drove him from the house, and good Deacon Giles was obliged to volunteer in vindication of 'his character A few, days after the departure of Seth Mettlar, his wife and mother-in-law, for Boston, a lady past middle age, with a -maid-servant, alighted from the stage at the door of the new hotel. ' She had a large quantity of luggage, and complained of being-so unwell, that she would not be able to pursue her journey farther for some days. She! bespoke the best rooms in the house; and as she gave no intimation of whom she was, whence she came, or whither she was going, curiosity was soon .all on tiptoe to discover something of these secrets.' ' She had an air of reserve and refinement; and every thing she possessed showed that she had been ac- customed to the very highest society. The maid was quizzed and questied dby the servants of the hotel about her mistress; but she never knew any thing of her, and what she did know was none of their business; and so they were left as wise as before. The baggage was marked Beresford; and the only information that could be gathered from her conversation was, that she was a widow travelling for her health; and as Montgomery Village was beautifully situated, . and was reputed healthy, she would have no objections to remaining there for the season if a good and comfortable house could be procured. She desired a carriage, the next day after her arrival, to drive about the village; and insisted on being driven up by the Pivot, and to the old house on the , hill beyond. The driver reported that she stopped a long time here, and asked him a " heap of questions." She walked back and forth from the house to the spring several times; ,             .    A FAMLY HSTORY.       251 but her chief interest, seemed to centre about the graves of the Gaults, and the old log-house that was now nothing but a pile of ruins. "What is thisn old pile kept here so long for?" she asked of the driver. "Well, ma'an," replied he, "old Square Gomery, when he had the place, would never let it be pulled ,down, though he spent a heap o' money in keeping the place in order. It was here, ma'am, that the Gault murder took place. Of course you have heard of the Gault murder by the British and Indians, and how the ghosts used to be about the house in dark nights?"           '  "What! is the place haunted?"             : "Oh, no, not now, ma'am! but it used to be fifty or sixty year ago; and some says the ghosts have been seen within a few yearls. But they never done no harm to nobody." "What were the ghohsts like? and what did they do?" "A sight o' things! Some says that a whole tribe of In- dians is seen dancin' round this old hovel. Others says there is a sight of a woman with her throat cut; and then agin some says a little girl goes about in her night-gown, scream- ing and crying for her ma, that the Indians has butchered: but there's so many stories, there is no tellin' which is true.'? When the old lady returned to, her hotel, she, told :the ' landlord: that she had found a place that would suit her, and inquired who owned the old house on the hill. She was told it was the property of Seth Mettlar. "It is n6t occupied, I see: how is that?"  The landlord informed her that "it had once belonged to Squire Gomery; and the house was occupied, for many years after his mother died, by old Jabez Dearborn anld his wife, *who just took care of the house and buildings, and lived like great people, though they hadnothing in the world that didn't belong to Squire Gomery. Every thing was kept in: good order by them, until the squire got into trouble about his title; and then Uncle Jabe took so much interest in the law- suit, and fretted so, that he took sick, and died; and then the old woman took sick too, and she died; and then the house was shut up; and, when the place come into Mr,. Mettlar's hands, he could neither let it, or sell it for what it is& worth: for people are sort o' superstitious about that place, and it is i vacant yet for that reason." "It is for rent, then?"? said she.  ' i    ' '    '"' '  's    25z2    . GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY:   ; "' Yet; and it is well furnished, and has the same furniture as was in it at the time that old Mr. Gomery, the squire's fatier, froze- to death, one night on the hill, in sight of his house." "Is the owner at home now?" "-No; he has gone to Boston: but he has left the house to my care, and I have got the key. He offers to let the whole place, furniture and all, for two hundred dollars a year; and it is very icheap: only he reserves one-half of the fruit-crop to himself."  Very well," said she, "I will take it; and you will send and have the house opened and aired, and made ready for use immediately." :When the} news spread through the town that the stranger lady was to occupy the old Gomery House, the curiosity to know more about hler was greatly intensified. But nothing. could they learn, with all their prying and questioning; and, two days after, the old lady and her maid movedinto the house. As servant and man-of-allwtork, she hired the somewhat anti- quated and Superannuated Philemon Gott, who had served at X the Eagle during all the long years that Diller kept it, and on the night of the great drunk was dubbed " the kurnell  by Joe Pumpagin, by which title he was ever afterwards known. Little, Diller, who had now no business of his own to at- tend to, gave all his time to bothering his neighbors about theirs; and he was especially concerned to know what the advent of this mysterious lady portended. In ordinary cases of doubt and perplexity, he had been, accustomed to consult his: old:friend, Squire Gomery. But, the last time he. hadc seen Gomery, he lOdked so serious and sad, he had not the courage to ask him the cause of his sorrow. Since then, he had gone away to New York; and another mystery had oc- ourred, and the little man was like to strangle with curiosity. A few days' after, however, hearing that the, squire had re- turned, he could neither contain nor restrain himself, but- posted up to the Pivot to get the squlre's inion in regard ,to the strange lady. But the old man could give him no sat- Isfalctio i. He admitted it looked a little queer, the manner in which she had come; but she doubtless had good reasons of her, own, which, if they knew, theywould not longer won- der.. Quiie chapfallen, the little man was going away, when   A FAMLY HSTORY. ,       258  the old- servant, "the kurnell,' appeared, and handed :the quire a note. He opened and read it, and, turning to his wife, said, "This is indeed strange! This lady weowere just talking about has sent me a note, saying that she will' be glad to see me at the Perch this evening, at-seven o'clock."  'I knew it, I knew it!" ,said Diller, jumping up in ecstasy. "I knew it! and I told 'em, when they asked me what'it meant, that it meant justice to that darned old rascal and hypocrite, Seth Mettlar, now, :and hell-fire afterwards!" "Oh, husk!'" answered the squire. "You wish so, and therefore bilieve so; but she probably wants some law ad- vice. .Howevel, we shall see; but you had better reserve -your opinions, Mr. Diller, until you have better grounds for them."       r Gomery's word was law .with Diller; and, when he re- turned to the village,;. he was well-nigh- suffocated with the importance of his secret. But, after the squire's warning, he . could say nothing more than indulge in the general observa- tion, that "the day of reckoning for rascals was near at hand." The interview of the newly arrived lady and Squire Gom- ery disclosed nothing to either that is not already known to the reader. She declared herself to be the sister of the sin- gular person known in that neighborhood as Joe Pumpagin, and that the old.'hovel yet standing near by had been the house of her birtl. She explained, too, how her broth- er had been, delayed on business- matters of importance; while she had come on -by herself, and incog nita, that she might have the satisfactionf of viewing, unknown and un- watched, the spot so painfully interesting to her., Neither she nor her brother had, at the time they parted, any knowl- edge of the disasters that had. fallen on the house of Gomory; but, since her arrival, she - had seen that changes had taken  place, through the grossest fi aud, that would greatly astonish and incense him.       . The clouds seemed now to be lifting around the Pivot- and the first gleam of light that has reached it for a long time has broken through the gloom that has so long envel- oped it. It was observed by several, who met-the old squire the inext day after Diller had given out his incoherent th ret- enings, that his step was more elastic, his eye more bright, VOL. n  .    22    254      i aOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: and his whole appearance more as it had been wont to be in times gone by. But this countenance, though more excited, was no less sad than before; for there was one sorrow im- pending, from which his soul "would be lifted nevermore." It was three days after th6 interview between Gomery and the new occupant of the old house, when the people of the vil- lage were more astonished than they had bqen at the myste- rious manner of the stranger lady, by the unexpected arrival s of Joe Pumpagin. After so many long years, and when people had generally settled into the belief that he would never come, he had returned to visit the scenes of his former pranks and sportive triumphs. As on former occasions, he had come in the mail-stage; and, as it drove up to the hotel (the new one, called the "Montgomery Exchange"), a mul- titude of people gathered around to stare at the passengers, , and see'who might alight. It was a Saturday afternoon in  June; and, of-course, there was an unusual number of peo- ple in the village. No sooner was the burly form, the, merry eye, and Ithe broken nose, of Joe'seen to emerge from the stage, thanithe whole crowd gave a shout of joy. He looked somewhat older and stouter than when he left; but otherwise his appearance was little changed. His hair was more gray, and his once fine teeth showed signs of service; but his motions were as quick, and his manner as hilarious, as, thirty years before. The word passed from oneend of the village to the other, as by telegraph, that "Old'Joe had got back;" and, had the cry been that the Exchange was on' fire, the rush towards itt could not have been more sudden and gen- eral. In the annals of Montgomery, he was an historic char- acter. Even the-younger folk, that had come into the world, since he was last there, had been told of him a thousand times,--of his jokes, his tricks, his marvellous stories, his ;good nature, and his funny face with its queer-loking nose, and his merry eyes. He shook hands all around, and slapped these on the back, who had never seen him before, with a familiarity that delighted them. He inquired particularly for his namesakes, and also for those of his "sister Nancy, who died in the poorhouse." '"You can't get any more flip now,' said little Diller. "You see, the/ old Eagle's gone; and there's been the very devil to pay since you left. Nothing goes right since the Eagle shut up. Old Square Gomery's all fell to pieces, with   A FAMLY HSTORY.       255 all his property; and he and the old woman live all alone up to the Pivot: but I told 'ein that darned old thief that stole all from him would catch it yet." "What! Gomery lost his property!" said Joe. "What has become of his son Walter, then?" ,' Why," answered Diller, "when the old man lost all, he went off to the west'ard, and hadn't been hearn on for a year or more, til, tother day, there come a report in the papers that he had lbeen caught down to Georgia getting away their niggersi and they've got him in prison, and folks think he'll be hung."    :           '  "What! Walter Gomery not here!--in prison down South!" said Joe, as his countenance changed, and assumed an air of sorrow altogether unusual with him. "I have come back to see him, above all others; for he thought about poor old Job when the rest of you cared nothing for him. And he is gone, and I am not to see him after all! Why did I come back'?"But the impression made by the informa- tion contained in Diller's words appeared to,pass off, and he was directly himself again. He was a man of self-control, and soon rallied his fund of humor and wit; and, entering the bar-room, he bargained with the landlord to give a free run at the bar that evening, at his expense, for the sum of ten dollars. By sunset, he was at the height of his popular-  ity; and several were so eager to testify their regard for him, that they :offer'ed to fight any one who dared say a word against hirm. As nobody was disposed to do that, they found other occasions for fighting; and, ,before midnight, a goodly number of broken heads attested the joy of the peo- ple at seeing their old friend returned once more. But Joe did not remain long to witness these friendly demonstrations. As soon as the spigot was drawn, and the rum was running fireely, he quietly withdrew from the crowd; and, with the first dusk of evening, left the hotel, and made his wayto the Pivot.#  / * . * " '!  '  - ' *  * !  '   . ' - V  :  ^ * *         256     -,60MERY OF MONTGOMERY: CHAEPTER XJX. "If the wickedness of these men have defeated the law, and outrun native punishment, though they can outstrip men, they have no wings to fly from God. -- HENRY V. : THE news of Joe's arrival in town reached the. Pivot before him; and the squire, not -doubting that he would soon be there, sent his carriage and servant to the old place to bring the Lady Beresford to his house. She arrived before Joe; and, when the latter appeared, the squire gave orders that he should, on no account, be interrupted that evening. The interview between these four persons--Gomery and' wife, Lady Beresford and Joe'--was long and painful. It was past midnight ere they separated; and then they felt that they had as much to say as when they began. Joe gave a long account of his experience since he last left Mont- gomery; and the squire, in his turn, narrated the troubles that had fallen upon him, and Jhis since that time,- all of which could not have happened, had Joe been there. But all this was as nothing compared with the greater sorrow that wasupon him. He gave a full account of Walter's course after he found that his father was bankrupt; and how he had got into his present position, from which he would probably never escape alive; and, if he did, what other changes had taken place, that must ever render desolate the life of one of his sensitive and earnest nature. But, as Joe wisely' remarked, it was now " no time for sen- timent.. We must at once proceed'to take such steps as, the exigencies require to secure the ends of justice, and recover our own. We must. lose no time; 'for if I were to die to-night, though you would be at liberty to use all that infor- mation, which, before, you were precluded from taking advan- tage of, yet-you would be obliged, perhaps, to go through another long course of litigation. That muling hypocrite has got possession; and I am the only person who can kick   xA FAMLY HSTORY.        257 him out without ceremony." It was decided, however, to await Seth's return to Montgomery, before taking any steps of which the' public could 'have any knowledge; and an accident that happened the next day to the dutiful Obededom hastened that event. Returning home late in the evening, after having taken several toddies, he was thrown out of his X wagon, and stunned and bruised- so, that he was carried home insensible. Joe Pumpagin was in the bar-room of the Exchange, telling marvellous tales, quoting Shakspeare, and teaching' the new landlord how to make flip, When the word was brought in that Obed Homer had been thrown from his wagon, and -killed. A second report soon followed, that he was ilot dead, but badly hurt, and perhapstwould die.  "His friends should be notified,"-said Joe. "I understand that that pretty sister of his has married one of'the' richest men about here, and'they are -offlat some watering-place. The mail will leave at four o'clock in the morning; and some- body ought to write to them about -this sad calamity. I would do it myself if I knew how, and was -only acquainted with the man - what's his name,? - that married Hester.", "Mettlar,;' answered the landlord. "I think I will write to him- myself; for he has left a. good many things in my care."  The landlord went to his-desk behind the bar, and quickly wrote an account of the accident that had befallen Obed, setting forth that he was very dangerously wounded. This letter Joe saw 'despatched to the post-offce, and then ambig- uously remarked, that, " if he were not a graceless unbeliever, he should think this accident was a special providence got up for his benefit."  The landlord's letter was received by Seth while at Nahant; and no sooner did his mother-in-law learn the contents of it than she insisted on anr immemdiate return home. Seth acqui- esced; and her daughter neither objected nor approved, for she was passive in every thing. :. They returned to Bostonf the- next day, and, the following morning, set out for home. But, just as they were leaving their hotel, another letter was put into Seth's hands, stating that Obed was not badly hurt, after all. He had oily been-badly bruised. and stunned, and was able to drive to the village the second day after the accident. Seth arrived home with his family ; and the next day he 22*  :              .   258      GOERPY OF MONTGOMERY: received the congratulations of his numerous friends. Many of the friends and former-schoolmates of Hester also called on the evening of their return and the following day, hoping to find her as she used to be. But there was, no change in her for the better. She had grown  paler, and even more reserved and silent, than when she left. The high-sheriff of the county, of which Chesterville was the shire-town, lived at Tivernet; and, as soon as Squire Gonrery learned that Seth Mettlar had ,returned, he sent a messenger with a note, requesting him to come immediately to Montgomery, as he had important business- for him to transact. The sheriff received the note at nine o'clock in the molning; and, at twelve meridian, he drove up to the door of the Pivot. tie was curious to know what the important business was that required such prompt attention. "We will discuss that after dinner," said the squire. "In the mean while, let me introduce you to my friend Mr. Pumpagin." -  "I know Mr. Pumpagin," said the sheriff, now stepping forward to shake hands with him, though he had not thought -of noticing him before. "He has been a great traveller, and can tell wonderful stories about what he has seen in strange countries." "I have heard a great deal of his wonderful stories," replied the sheriff.  "To-day you may hear one, with your own ears, more strange and wonderful than any you have ever heard of; and it is not more strange than true."  "Tis strange, 'tis passing strange; 'tis pitiful, 'tis wondrous pitiful!'" said Joe. "You seem to be very melancholy. I have been told yQou were not only always joking and laughing yourself, but that , you make, everybody else laugh." "Slander, sir, slander! I am a man o'erpressed with mel- ancholy; but, as Jaques says,-Shakspeare, you know,- 'it is a melancholy of mine own, compounded of many simples extracted from many objects; and, indeed, the sundry con- templation of my travels, in which my often rumination wraps me, is a most humorous sadness.:" The conversation was here interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Gomery; and, immediately afterwards, dinner was an- nounced; and great was the astonishment of the man of   A- FAMLY HSTORY.       259, executions when he saw Joe Pumpagin offer his arm to the lady of the house, and escort her to the dinnerl-table, After the dinner was finished, the party adjourned to-the parlor; and then the squire said to theriff, "I will now tell' you what I wish you to do. You will arrest Seth Mettlar, and put him into the Chesterville jail'!"   . "Arrest Seth Mettlar?" ,; Even so. You are surprised; but I can soon explairi the latter sufficiently, so that you need not hesitate. You are aware of the way in which he came by the property now in his possession." "I ought to know something of it, as I was sheriff at the time, and in, attendance at every trial." "Then you remember how he found a deed of the same property that was bought by my father from Col. Scranton, in favor of Thomas Gault, and dated anterior to that of my father; that he then pretended to have got a deed from the sole heir of the said Thomas Gault." "Of course, I remember all about that: how that he found this heir in the last stages of sickness and suffering; and, as he had'no moneyto6 reward him for his kindness, he gave him a deed of his interest in the property left by his father." "You remember, too, how I said at the time, that I knew, of my own Iknowledge, that that deed Was a fraud and a forgery?  'Yes; and Joel Slocum took your word against all the evidence on the other side, and the judge's instructions besides, and has been laughed at ever since." "Well, it will be his .tuirn to laugh now; for Randolph Gault, the son and heir of Thomas Gault, is alive!" "He is, and can be brought as a witness! 'There are more things in heaven and earth,' Mr. Sheriff," said Joe, "' than are dreamt of in your philosophy. '"  "This man," continued the squire, "who is known as Joe Pumpagin, is the man Randolph Gault, as I have known for a long time." ; ' Did you know it at the time of the trial?" ,." I did. But I could not avail myself of that knowledge. I knew not where he was, and, even had I asserted' it then, it might have availed little; for you will remember, in his de- scriptions of the sick man, who, he pretended, had made the deed, there was a similarity to our friend here."   260      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: "Together we, should have made a pair of pretty Dro.- mios,"' said Joe. ".Therefore Ihad only to endure the mortification, of see- ;ing my property stolen from me.; my youngest son driven, to seek his own fortune, and, I fear, forever lost to me; and the sweet young girl, to whom he had been engaged from child- hood, forced to the embraces of the dark-hearted villain that had robbed me. But now the day of reckoning has come, and your services are in requisition. I 'have already made out, the necessary papers. J Here is my accusation and affi- davit, that, of my own knowledge, S6th Mettlar is guilty of forgery, perjury, and subornation of perjury, Here, too, is the sworn statement of Randolph Gault, known generally as Joe Pumpagin, that he is the only son of David Gault, the first settler on Mount Gault,-as it was formerly called, - and the same who was murdered by the Indians and British in the. time of the Revolutionary -War." "But what am I to do with him? I can't put him in jail without, authority of s6me kind." , Of course not. Ambrose Addison received his commis- sion as a justice of the peace only last week. I have pre- pared all the papers myself. You will take them to him, or rather I will go with you to his -house, and will make my complaint;.and he will sign the warrant that I have prepared, without hesitation; for, like Joel Slocum, he would take my word in preference to all the sworn witnesses that could be brought to contradict me."  The squire next gave orders for his horse to be harnessed; and .taking Joe into his carriage, the sheriff following after, -they rode towards the village, and stopped at the door of Squire Addison. - They'found his honor hard at work making shoes, having a volume of Blackstone's Commentaries open on a chair beside him, reading and " pegging -away" alter- nately. .,But awl, w ax, last, and apron were at once dropped; and tChe, son, of Crispin, and disciple of Justinian, stood ready to serve his customers, whether it was law and justice, or something in the shoe line, they had come after. They were shown into the office of the learned justice, which was also the. sitting-room -for his family; and. which, if plainly fur- nishedj showed, nevertheless, a goodly sized library of-well- selected, standard books. oGomery at once proceeded to business, and said, "I am lia, i         , ,    A FAMLY HSTORY,        261 ble to have more serious trouble with this man Mettlar; atnd I want you to issue a warrants and the sheriff will atonce: arrest him."        -    i "I will accommoodate -ou with great pleasure, Squire Gom- ery; ;but what have I to Jgo upon?" '  : Here is my own affidavit, that I am ready to make oath to, accusing him of high crimes."    -.          ' The justice took the affidavit, read it through, and, then said, Y" ou make oath to this?" ' "Certainly." The affidavit was-then duly sworn to; and the justice signed the warrant that Gomery had already prepared, commanding the sheriff of the county, or any of his deputies, to arrest the, body-of Seth Mettlar, and bring him before the said justice. The: sheriff took the paper, and left; and Gomery and Joe rode over to the old office of the folmer, which he had not visited for months before. Sheriff White was an obliging man, and avoided giving offence as much as possible. He drove up to Seth's house just at the moment he was dismissing two unfortunate debt- ors with the comforting assurance that he must foreclose the" mortgages he held unless the money due was paid imme- diately. '-Whien' : the Gomery Estate had, first come into his possession, he had thought it good po6lcy to show considera-' ble liberality and public spirit until he got quietly and firmly established in the enjoyment of it.' ':But now he was secure in all, and felt that he could -defy public opinion, the cloven foot showed :itself.; :ad he wasa as exacting and hard with debtors'as ever had been that litigious nuisance, Silas; Barton. As he found :he:X could not0 make people" respect him,' he was determined ihey should fear him, --that 'he would, in- some- way, be atpoWer:among them, The ;twoi unfortmuiate debtors were just being politely bowed out of the house by the severely civil Seth, when Sheriff White :drove tip to the-::door. 'Without; alighting friom . hi:carriage, he asked Seth if he 'would not like to take a  short ride.  -       ' v   ' . . .. , ., ;, "' "'Where to P? inquirel Seth.  e'"D'own to the village." :, "It looks rather suspicious riding with' you; so I guess I wornt 'go;,' replied :he in a manner' which he intended 'for fa* eetious. '  "  - : " ; : -* v - A   - -  l   262  j    GOWMRY OF MONTGOMERY: ; " There is a little business to be done down to Squire Ad- dison's office, and they say they want you."' Well, You tell them I can't go unless they send a sum- mons; and then I shall take my own time. I want people here to understand that Seth Mettlar is to be respected; and those who think-to trifle with him will get the worst of it. They might have learnt that, I should think, from the fate of old Gomery." "Then you won't go without a summons?" ";'No, I won't!" ^ Suppose I have a warrant." "A warrant! a warrant for me!"  * Yes, sir, a'warrant for youl," said he, drawing it from his pocket; " and here it is. I am commanded to arrest you im- mediately, and take you before Squire Addison." "Why! this is old Gomery's work!" "I dare' say it is; for the warrant recites that it is -made on1 his affidavit." Seth, who but just before was bold and defiant, now turned pale as a sheet; and a cold perspiration broke out upon him. But he still tried to keep on his air of bravado, alnd asked, with a forced sternness, what he was charged with. "Take it, and read for yourself," said the sheriff, tossing the warrant: towards him. With a hand whose tremor he could not disguise, he picked up the paper, and read that he was charged with forgery, perjury, and subornation of per- jury. "Ha! the old man thinks he's found' a mare's nest; but he shall pay dearly for this I I'll teach him that Mont- gomery is not large enough for Seth Mettlar, and Freeborn Gomery. Yes, if it takes half I've got in the world, I'll drive hin from the place." "( But that is not my business. I am ordered to arrest you; and, if you decline to ride with me, you can walk, or go in your own carriage." I -will not fide with you," said he, calling to his servant to harness his horse to the light wagon. At this stage of proceedings, the two debtors moved off homewards, telling everybody they met and saw that Seth Mettlar had been arrested by Sheriff White, and'was going down to Squire Addison's to have his trial. A few minutes afterwards, Seth's smart, flashy, light wag- on, drawn by his swift-going little black mare, was seen to l     '  , ,   A FA MY HSTORY..        263 move down the road, closely followed by the heavy nag of Sheriff White. The news rapidly spread that Seth Mettlar had been arrested; and great was the rush toward the house of the new justice to learn what it was all about. Before .the-justice took his seat, and announced the court to be open, the room or office was full of people; and, in half 1 an hour more, there was scarce a man or boy in the village, ' who was able to walk, ride, or hobble, who was not in the;  lhouse, if he could crowd in, or, if not, as near to the door as he could get. Various-were the speculations among the multitude. Little Diller said that he "always knowed it would be so; that that darned thing would be come up with after all, and he would find it as hard to cheat the Devil as Tom Walker had found it before him."  The new justice, though an intelligent man, and better read in the law than many attorneys, was unfamiliar with fornms; and he therefore allowed Gomery to indicate the course of proceedings. But, before the complaint was read, he asked Mettlar if he had employed counsel. "No,", replied that indignant and persecuted citizen: "I scorn to employ counsel to defend me from a charge so absurd, and so redo- lent of impotent malice, as this." The bold and defiant tone in which this was uttered called forth symptoms of applause from a few; but the sharp voice of little Diller, when he piped out, ," Ay, ay, you directors of the Exchange, you can shout now; anl you church folks, who want to turn out Parson Skeelman for rebuking sinners as well -as sin, you will find the Devil is hard after you, and old Mettlar-is his chief dep- uty," -these words were the key-note of the public senti- ment.  The complaint was first read, and then the affidavit on: which the arrest was made. The justice turned to Seth, and asked him what he had to say against them. "I say," said : he, "the complaint is false from beginning to end. The affl- davit is an act of perjury; and, if your honor gives the least heed to either of them, you do so at your peril." "Doubtless he will take all the responsibility and risks," ,said Gomery, rising "And now, with the permission of the court, I propose, more for the satisfaction of the people whom I see here than for the purpose of satisfying the court, to submit some extended remarks; and, the better that I ma be heard, I shall take my position near the window, which I re-   264      GOMERY- OF- MONTGOMERY: quest may be raised, so that as many as possible may catch my words."' ; The'window was raised as requested; and Gomery of Mont- golnery, for the last time in his life, proceeded to address the people, and incidentally the court. By his side sat Joe Pum- pagin, who, strange to say, forbore from making 'a joke or quoting Shakspfeare. In "'a loud, clear: voice, the aged advocate then began to give a': history of-the events that led to his being before them at tha't tinme. He commenced with a picture of Mount Gault w hen David' Gault was the only settler within many miles. He-described the dangers and perils of the pioneer life; and told: the story of the bear; the flight of the children; the fall; the broken nose, and the journey to a distant town to find a doctor who could: mend it; .the detainment of the boy; the massacre of his parents:;- the kidnapping of his sister; the ghostly apparitions; and the evil name that fell upon the place, and kept off settlers for yemars. Then he told the story of his own father's fortunes 'and misfortunes; how that, when all trace of the Gaults was lost, he had bought the same, tract of land that had once belonged to the murdered man. Then he- gave a full and succinct history of the strange career of the isori of the' murdered couples; how, when he grew to' man's estate, he was; haunted with the thought that he was to be an instrument, in the hands of Providence, of justice; how he had sailed the seas, and travelled in unknown climes, but was ever beset with the idea-that he was flying from duty- and how, after a three-years' voyage, he resolved to return to his native place, and, without discovering himself, learn all the traditions that could be ascertained about, his pare'n"mu rdei an :their- murderers' I. e e 'had comer- among ti'em poor: antd-cuaikon, and had passed- by the 'name of 'Joe :Pu'mpsagin. 'He had learned something of the instigator oIf-the murder' of his father and mother, and: with that in- f6i iaati6in::ile"f as suddenly and mysteriously as he arrived. He had seen, after years of pursuit, the guilty:sinner; who ever: arried'before him the: apparitio of Gault's Hill, - the l6bvely woian:wi-th her throat! out,' aid her angelic eyes yet beaiiing 'with: a' ove and spirit not of -earth; the rattle of musketiiy ; the blazing fire; 'and the: childs ery, first sharp, and tienX-diminishing, till it was nro longer to be heard. I He had seen thiis -wr'etch, who attempted lto:defy God, to brave the   A FAMLY HSTORY.        265 world, and go down to his grave honored and respected, endure a life of prolonged misery, till fi"ally, in disgrace, exposure, and shame, he at last, when human nature could endure no more, shrunk in- cowardice and shame from this world to the next. The sister that had been carried into captivity had also been an object of his search; and it was enough for him then to say that she was no other than the mysterious lady who had recently returned to the spot where she was born, and now occupied the house that had been built by his honored father. At last, when time had worked out his revenges, the son, now an old man, older than the speaker by some years, had returned to spend the balance of his days near the spot where he had first seen the light. "But how changed," he continued, " was every thing! During the long years of his later absence, the thief and forger had done his work.  His story of a deed, left him as, a testament and legacy of gratitude by the heir to whom he," had shown kindness, is familiar to all. At the time, I knew it was fic- tion and fraud, but was debarred from making use of the knowledge in my possession; and so I have waited for the Lord in his own good time to work-out his salvation. I now i demand that the prisoner, Seth Mettlar, be committed to prison, and held for trial till the grand juryshall indict him, and that no bail be taken."                During these remarks, which entered into the detail of many things which -the reader being already advised-it has not been necessary to repeat, there was in the minds of all present an' intensity of interest that Was painful and oppres- sive in its stillness. People listened for an hour and a half without changing their position. It was dark long before he concluded; and teams that'-had been left standing in. the fields while the farmer or his boys or hired men should run to the road, and learn what was meant by all the bustle and excitement, were still standing in the yoke, and perhaps bearing the heavy cart's tongue on their necks. The cows were unmilked till long past their hour; and women and children gathered round the multitude of men who were pressing  near to catch the words of Gomery of Montgomery. It was known that Seth Mettlar had been arrested, and-great was the curiosity to learn the reason for it. I As soon as Gomery ceased speaking, the people who had been listening so intently changed their positions; and the VOL. IX.    23 :i. ,   266      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERTY: word soon extended back to those who were unable to hear, that Seth Mettlar had been proved to be a folger and a per- jurer, that Joe Pumpagin was the real Randolph Gault, andl that Gomery would have his own again. Seth Mettlar sat unmoved, supported by his faithful and affectionate brother-in-law, Obededom Homer, during the whole time that Gomery-was speaking. The latter attempted, on several occasions, to express incredulity and contempt by a scolnfdl-laugh and shrug, as he east his eyes about among his familiar acquaintances; but all were too deeply absorbed in what the speaker was saying to return any thing but a silen- cing scowl. Seth hardly raised his eyes during the whole time; bit the perspiration stood on his forehead, and even dripped from his greasy gray hair. At the conclusion of Gomery s ad- dress, the justice asked Seth what he liad to say. His reply was given in an undertone, and without rising from his seat. He said " hedid, not suppose it was necessary for a man of his- position and reputation ,and high religious character, to deny so absurd a charge as this which had been brought against him. It' was evidently an attempt of Gomery, who had long been known as his enemy, and whom a jury of his countrymen had convicted of libel on his character, assisted by that low buf- foonJoe Pumpagin, to ruin hischaracter and standing, and rob him of his property. As his honor would doubtless take the same view of the case, and dismiss it with the contempt it deserved, he should not' give it dignity nor importance by saying anything more." But the justice did not take the sa e view of the case: on the contrary, he ordered him to be committed to the county Jail until the next session of the county court. When this result was known, people scattered about in small knots, talking over in an undertone the strange turn of fortune. The general feeling among them was one of shame. They felt that they had not stood by Gomery through his misfortunes as they ought to have done, and had shown a deference to Seth Mettlar for no other reason than that he had been successful in robbing Freeborn Gomery. They were humiliated that they had so readily bowed before the golden calf. In a short time, they all silently withdrew, and went to their several homes. The sheriff told Seth that he should be happy of his company that night as far as Chester-   A FAMLY HSTORY.        267 ville; and the latter, after giving some directions to his friend Obed, sullenly entered the carriage of the sheriff, and was driven rapidly away.  l Thomas Homer, on the day of these adventures, had been at work in a field half a mile back from the road, and knew nothing of what was going on till he returned home at the dusk of evening. He-was met-at the door by his wife in a great state of excitement, who informed him that the sheriff had been up and arrested Seth, and there was a great crowd down at the village; and the Widow Howlet had just gone by, and said that Seth had been robbing and stealing; and old Square Gomery was making a great speech against him. i "Ah!" said the old man coolly:" then it. has come at last, has it?" "What has come?  ' Justice. Of course, this must be the end of Seth's doings. -Tbhe Devil is not to be cheated so easily." "Why, Mr. Homer! will you turn against your own flesh and blood?- What is to become of Hester, I would like to know, if this is true? And then poor Obed: he won't have a firiend in the world! When I heard the news, I run up to see Hester; and when I told her that them wicked Gomerys were trying to ruin her husband, and make her a beggar, she. laughed in my face."       - "Did she laugh?" said he, sitting down on tihe door-sill. "I am glad of that; for I have never seen her laugh since she was married.-  " "Yes, she did laugh; and then she said just as you did, that she knew it would come to that, and that the ways of God were just. And then she talked strangely, as she does talk sometimes, and said, 'And then they will lay mel in the cold ground, and he will not come back till I am dead.' And I said, ' Hush, child! he has only gone to the village, and will, be back in an hour.' And she said, 'Who? ' and I said, ' Seth, your husband.' Then she said, 'My husband!' and broke out in a loud laugh; and I told the old woman-servant to watch her well, and I would come back in the evening. Poor Homer gave a deep groan, and then took his milk- pail, and went into the yard where the cows were waitingto be milked. The next term of the court, before which Seth was to be    268      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: tried, would not commence for three weeks after his com- mittal to prison; but the w'hole question of propertywas as well decided the next day, in the minds of the people, as ever it could be. Gomery was -recognized as the rightful owner of all he had ever possessed, and assumed the control of it; no one venturing to question his right, i               .   A FAMLY HSTORY.         269  CHAPTER XX.        g "There is thy gold, -worse poison to men's souls, Doing more murders in this loathsome world, Than these poor compounds that thou mayst not sell.' ROMEO AND JULIET. The good people of Montgomery,/who, like many others, were much inclined to attend to other people's business, even if they must neglect their own, had been-so astonished atrthe last revolution of Fortune's 'Wheel, which had so utterly upset the late much-respected Mr. Seth Mettlar, that the story of Walter Gomery was, for a time, little thought of. When alluded to, it was considered very strange that so well-inten- tioned a youth should conduct himself as the newspapers had represented him to have done. B- ut a different report appeared in the papers within a week of Seth's incarceration; and this again furnished a subject of much curious specula- tion. Capt. Dykes, had escaped, without question or interruption, from the land of slavery. As he had disposed of the "Good Intent" at a bargain, he concluded he would give up the oasting business, and spend the rest of his days, with his wife and children, on his little farm down in Maine. At least, he thought, that, if he made any further voyages, he had better keep a respectful distance from Lancaster. After his return, he watched the papers closely:for news from the Altamaha, and of the fate of the i Good Intent.' Even before he reached his-home, he read that she had escaped to sea, tak- i ing with her one hundred, and fifteen valuable slaves, after - being pursued by a swift steamer; and was on the point of being captured, when the steamer was disabled by the base and treacherous act of a young Yankee, who was doubtless the instigator of the, conspiracy. Capt. Dykes feared that this young Yankee was none other than his friend and quon- dam passenger, Walter Gomery. But the papers did not give the culprit's name, alleging that he had refused to tell 23*          . *  .      .  .   ' 270     GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: who he was; and from this Dykes inferred that it' could lot be Walter, as his l(ame was well known to many in Lancas- ter. The accounts also added, that, at first, his name was supposed to be Torrence, from the marks on his linen; but, as this had doubtless been stolen from some clothes-line, little could be inferred from the fact.' A fine character, Walter, our Southern brethren and chiv- alrous neighbors are giving you! Capt. Dykes had fot been at home two days, when he kead in a Boston paper of the safe arrival of the fugitives, and their own account of their escape. His fears that his friend Walter was the person implicated were now con- firmed: for thb fugitives' account stated that the first person' who got wind of their flight was a Yankee schoolmaster; i and that, accompanied-by a large number of planters and overseers, he had pursued them on a steamer, and was on the ppint of overhauling them, when, providentially, some- thing igave way aboard the steamer, and so they escaped. This s hoolmaster it-was added, was named Walter Gomery, from the town of Montgomery, State of   . So it appeared Chat Walter was getting credit from nei- ther party for his services. iThe fugitives accused him of exposing their plans, and attempting to catch them, that they might be remanded to slavery. The slave-owners, on the other hand, ascribed to him the disabling of the engine, and their consequent escape. Capt. Dykes at once perceived the truth of the case, and wrote a letter to a Boston paper, stat- ing that, of his own knowledge, the Yankee schoolmaster, who was accused by the fugitives of having informed upon them, and the young man who was in prison for having pre- vented their recapture, were one and the same person. This statement of Capt. Dykes was read by the people of Mont- gomery; when, for the first time, they learned of the actual part taken by Walter, but of which his father and mother had known for weeks. These accounts, being copied into various papers, soon reached Lancaster; and great was the alarm which they caused. It would be a month longer before the court would sit that could try the" prisoner, and it was not certain that a capital case would be made of it even then. There was no time to lose. Itwas necessary that he should be tried and hanged, legally and decently, before the facts of the case ,           .   A FAMLY HSTORY.        271   $ were fully bruited at the North. Besides (and which was of more importance), the slaves far and near were taking a great inteirest in the case; and, in spite of all that flogging Pcould do, there were a great many secret meetings being held; and a plot to burn the town and rescue the prisoner was suspected. But, while debating on this difficult matter, another letter was received from Seth Mettlar. It had been written in the Chesterville jail -though: he did not allude to: that, inter- esting fact in the letter - to a friend in Boston to be posted . 'In this letter he said, that, in his former one, he had omitted ' to mention certain suspicious circumstances that had come under his observation, and which he thought it 'important that his "Southern friends" should know. He said that it was beyond question that a desperate attempt was to be made to rescue the atrocious criminal that they held a pris- oner, and that no time should be lost in rendering such an act an impossibility. The means to be adopted for this were entirely unknown to him; but it was quite clear that the father of the culprit was in collusion with spies and traitors in their own midst. A suspicious-looking man had been lurking about Montgomery some two weeks before, and it was known that he held secret interviews with the elder- Gomery; and there was no doubt that he brought secret in- formation of the son's disgraceful acts. i He was a tall,' spare man, with 'light hair and eyes, a little bald, with a scar on his left cheek, was minus a front tooth, and apparently from thirty to thirty-five years of age.  This letter was first read by the postmaster, who took it to the district judge, and then to Dr. Lancy, and afterwards to the jailer. Suspicion at once'fell on the right party, though they could hardly believe that such a true Southron could be guilty of such turpitude. He was so; loyal to Southern institutions, such a hater of fanaticism, so vindic- tive against all suspected of antislavery prejudices, was so sensitive of his honor, so proud of his Cavalier ancestry, that he was the last man to suspect in the whole country. Nev- ertheless, the signs were against him. The description an- swered to his; and he had frequently visited thet prisoner during the first days of his confinement, and had subse- quently gone North, ostensibly called thither by the death of a brother. He had returned flush of money, saying that it   27-2      GO4ERY OF MONTG1OMRY;;' was left him by the deceased; but that was only his word, , and proved nothing. Notwithstanding, however, all this accumulated evidence against him, as he was a high-toned gentleman, and very sensitive on points of honor; it would not do to hint a suspicion without proof positive. Therefore, :proof must first be sought; and the best way they could imagine to find it was to search his rooms, and overhaul his papers. Taking advantage of his absence, this was done; and in the side-pocket of his best coat was found the order of Freeborn Golmery on ,himself, indorsed by Walter. This was sufficient; and the self-constituted detectives proclaimed aloud that they had discovered the traitor. Soon after, the unfortunate Larcomb returned home, and found his room full of people. He feared he was suspected, but thought he had covered his tracks too well to be traced, or discovered. / He had forgotten that he had left the draft where it could be so easily found. But, wfien he saw the angry faces of the crowd that had gathered around bthe house where he lived, he sus- pected the worst. They hardly showed less fury towards their own high-toned friendthan they had shown a short time before towards the low, grovelling Yankee. The draft was handed to him by Dr. Lancy; and a dozen angry voices at once asked how he came by it. The poor wretch had nothing to say.  He cowed and cringed and begged; he. whined and'sniffled. He said he didn't see what harm it was to euchre them mean Yankees out of two or three thousand dollars. But it was all f no avail. Those who have lived -in the South well know the ever- present dread of servile insurrection. Who might they nots suspect, if this man, a pink of chivalry, a dead-shot, who- had pinked one man and killed another, was a traitor. He, the soul of honor, was false; and who could be trusted? Tar and feathers were suggested; and soon after a blazing fire was on the common, and a kettle of tar Was soon warmed into comfortable and liquid consistency; and, amid the hoot- ings and execrations of five hundred people, this scion of the ; old Cavalier stock was decked in plumage that once adprned the sea-fowls of the- coast of Labrador. Then, a rail was brought; and four stout negroes were ordered to bear him beyond the limits of the town, where he was put down, and told, that, if ever seen in that vicinity again, he would not get off alive.   A FAMLY HSTORY.  '     273 The next morning, he was found dead about a mile fron the town, with a bullet through his head. No one knew who had shot him; no one cared. He had died as he deserved t to die; and that was enough. But there was great uneasiness felt, not only in-Lancaster, but-throughout the entire county. The slaves were acting suspiciously. They knew well enough that the prisoner had sacrificed his life to give freedom to their companions in bondage. There was something very strange in-this, how- ever. In their experience and knowledge of white-men, they had never seen any thing like it. They thought this man, now a prisoner, must be an exception to all others they had ever known. They thought, there must be something more than human about him; and in spite bf all that mas- ters, overseers, or dogs could do, the slaves would get to- gether, and talk of the case of "poor Walter," as he was rcalled by them. Among themselves, they said he was not a man, but "' a ankgel;" that'the day of deliverance was, at hand. This man must be, at least, a second John the Bap- tist. In this alarming, state of affairs, a public meeting was called to take into consideration the means necessary to the public security. No colored people were allowed to be present; and even the poorer class of "whites was excluded. At this meeting, it was decided that a small and select, Committee of Public Safety should-be chosen, who should- have full power to act, and not be held responsible to any- body. It was voted that the laws should not be allowed to interfere with the exercise of their duties; that they should never be called upon to report; but' that their doings should ever remain secret. Of course, only men of very high character could be trusted on so important:a committee. In selecting it, every member must not only have large investments in human cattle, but must have imbibed a love of slavery with his mother's, or rather his nurse's milk. Some were proposed for the committee, on account :of their brutal'and inhuman treatment of theirt slaves,; 'but this was considered more as a proof of a bad temper, than of pure :blood. Others were considered disqualified by rea'son of their blood having been contaminated, at some period, by a Northern alliance. Kingsbury .;wask-rejectoed:;. m.,tigliteously,:fox having so far   t  274    GOMERY- OF MONTGOMERY: forgot himself as to marry a Northern woman for a wife. The chairman of the committee was Col. Singleton, a mem- ber of the State Senate, and said to be booked for the next Congress. -His two associates were Solomon Scoville and ' Dr. Lancy; the former distinguished as a leading member of the Old-School Church, and for his success in redeeming an encumbered estate in Virginia, which had been acom- plished by raising babies to sell in the markets of the cotton -and sugar States. he other was a man of great wealth; and owned more slaves than any other two men in the county. His wife was his first cousin; and the estate had been hers before marriage, when she was regarded as the richest heiress in Georgia. They claimed descent, in a direct line, from John Lancy, son of a baronet of that name who had fallen in the battle of Sedgemoor, and whose son received a large grant of land in Virginia from Charles II. after the Restora- tion, The grantee had a sister who was a famous belle in her day, and one of the bright lights of that virtuous mon- arch's court. Some said that the king's gratitude was of that kind which is a sense of favors to come; but, of course, that was a gross slander on a virtuous and grateful monarch. The committee held a secret meeting the same night; and it was decided that the most prompt measures should be taken. -To wait for the regular term of the court, they all agreed would be suicidal; for if they could get a conviction, and conviction for a capital crime, it would be dangerous to venture on a public execution. The slaves all regarded him as a saint or deliverer; and though any outhreak or insur- rection couldi'as they believed, be easily suppressed, they would all look upon him as a blessed martyr. They might think, if there was one man so self-sacrificing, there must be many; and if the abolitionists, which their masters had always told them were a set of ghouls that -feasted on the flesh of young pichninnies, were like this one who freely ventured his own life for them, it must bei a fine thing to escape to a land where abolitionists were abundant. But the chief ground of alarm was the danger that the slaves might regard his execution as a crime of theiir own, and might avenge/ it with fearful fiury. The current of thought, among them was well understood. -One of their most influential preachers had been Overheard, in a meeting 'held in the darkest, midnight, piaying to the Lordto en- I         .       ' R     1, p         ;   PG A FAMLY HSTORY.             v   275 lighiten him in his duty. The burden of his prayer was? that a good man - one who, like the God he addressed, and the Redeemer of the world, loved the slave --had come among them; and had broken many chains, and was to be put to death for it. Was it his duty, and the duty of the other darkies, to rise up, and try to, save him? or would they not deserve chains of slavery in this life, and the chains of hell afterwards, .if 'they quietly held their peace, and mide no effort for his deliverance? Another difficulty in the way of a public trial andi execu- tion would be the notoriety they would entail. - The facts would certainly all get out if he were to have a regular, open trial. - He would then be privileged to employ counsel; and, as it was now known that he had relations of ,Wealth and influence, some famous lawyers of national reputation, whom it would not do to tar and feather, might be sent to defend him; and -then they would learn all about the monstrous system-of falsehood that it had been necessary to adopt in order to maintain Southern rights and Southern honor. If he would only oblige them, and die, it would save a world of trouble; and if he would not even do so small a thing as that, after all the trouble hemhad given them, then it was no more than right that means should be found to make him do it. The same committee met again at ten o'clock the next morning; 'and, this time, it was considered necessary to take into tteir counsels another person, -a man whose busi- ness it was to hunt up runaway slaves, and who kept a pack of dogs for that purpose. They concluded that a man whose business evinced so laudable a desire to guard the sacred rights bf property, would have So scruples in under- taking any job -that promised good pay.' But they were mistaken: he required"to be both flattered and coaxed. His name was George Riley; though he was always called cock- eyed Riley, from a defect of vision that his nickname clearly indicated. He had made a moderate fortune by buying runaways at a low figure, and hunting them from their holes, and then selling them to be taken West or South. His business was revolting, even to those that employed him; and, sensible of the abhorrence in whiph he was held, he was very scrupulous in his deportment. He was very, anxious for social recognition; and, to gain it, was' most   276      GOMErRY OF MONTGOMERY:- exemplary in general conduct. He was temperate in his habits, punctual at church, and liberal in all public displys and charities, He was now a widower of forty, with one child, - a daughter, whom, though grossly illiterate himself, he spared no expense to' have educated. Such was the nman taken into the- counsels of the Committee of Public Safe-y. They were all closeted in a room in Col. Singleton's house; and the vanity of Riley was highly inflated when he received a polite note from the chairman, saying that he was invited to meet the committee on business of the first importance and the strictest privacy. Of course, he attended with alacrity," "Well, George," said the chairman: " this is serious busi- ness.. "Very serious, Col. Singleton/' "We have concluded that it i's necessary to have a special jailer for this fellow that's in prison." "What is the objection to Jim Iverson? He's an honest man enough. You know he was offered five thousand dol: lars to give young Gadden a chance to escape: but he wouldn'ttouch it; and so old Gov. Gadden saved his mon- ey. He might 'ave known a Georgia jury would never con- vict a son of a gov'nor, and of the old Cavalier stock besides. Do you know, colonel"- "What?"         - "Seeing we are all gentlemen, I! don't mind telling you something.. "Well, what is it?" "The old gov'nor give me a thousand dollars to find him a witness. Not that I cared for the money; but I thought it my duty, as a man and a Christian, to 'prevent the disgrace -of a public execution of a member of one of the best fami- lies on the eastern shore. "You are as'bad as Iverson. He is an honest man enough: but he will blab. What business had he to- tell ,about that " offer of five thousand, dollars? You know it led to -the death of young Poindexter. He' repeated the story, and said it was- a scandalous affair. Nobody could deny that: yetGadden's brother was bound to take it up, and call him out to vindicate the family honor; and the result was, Poin- dexter was shot. Now, if you are to be admitted into our councils, you must hold your tongue."   A FAMLY HSTORY.        2" "Certainly, certainly!' I shall be the discreetest critter ever you seen."        ' "Well, thei, you must act as special jailer." "Special jailer! Hum! I 'spose I'llbe'wellpaidforit. - My time is va'able now; for there's heaps o' niggerg running off. So I'll expect pay for my time, though I'm as anxious as any- body to see this infernal villain hung. This thing of running  oft niggers by sea must be stopped, or my business will be ruined, My dogs won't be worth three dollars apiece." "Well, then, you must undertake this business; and if every thing is carried out well, and you do your duty honor- ably and like a gentleman, three days after the affair is over you shall be plaid,- in gold, five hundred dollars." "What ,am I to do?" ' Can't you surmise? It will never do to bring that sneak- ing coward to trial."  "Well, then, why not call him out? Have the weapons doctored, and there will be no danger." "A Southern gentleman call out a Yankee thief to fight I I thought you had some sense." "What is to be done, then?" Hush! He must be coaxed to die in prison."  "Oh! you want him pisened, do you? Well, I shall have. nothing to do with that job." "Yes, very likely," said Lancy, rising up, and walking across the room: " that is just the way with you mean-spirited nigger-catchers! You care for nothing but money; haven't a particle of public spirit." "You don't consider the importance of this work," said Scoville. ";You will be doing what will entitle you to the gratitude of the whole State, if they could know of it.")  '. And to be hanged myself, if I'm found out." "You will not be found out," said Lancy. -"No one will know of it but yourself, unless you tell of it; and, besides, 'some one must do it.. The safety of our institutions and the conservation'of society require it. It is a necessity. Have you no patriotism?"      / "Yes," said Scoville ; "And have you no religion? Are' you not aware that we are exposed to a deluge of Northern infidelity, and that it is a religious duty to labor with all our might to check the first inroads of th:ir abominable here- sies?"  VOL. IX.    24I   278      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY. "I hope I ain't'senseless to my religious duties," replied the slave-catcher. "But have you no patriotism?" broke in Lancy. "We are not to look too nicely into the character of our acts, when the institutions of liberty and the religion of our forefathers are at stake." "How do you propose to do it?" said Riley, beginning to yield. "I am afelrd I'll be fotched up if I try it.". "Not the least danger," said Lancy. 'c I know just the way to do it. Only give him a sleeping draught a little too stkiong for him, and the thing is done."  "But there'll be a public linquiry." "We have provided for that. Iverson will *know nothing of it; and when he goes in and finds him past waking, with a bottle marked 'Laudanum ' by his side, of course he will see that he committed suicide." i  "That's true," said Riley, musing. "How much did you say would be paid?"           / "Five hundred dollars." "I don't mind so much about the money; but I am strong- ly impressed with the patriotic and religious arguments of the case. On the whole, I think I will. I'll take charge of him. But I must consider further about putting him to sleep. Good joke, that!" "Very well: we shall tell Iverson to turn him over to you. You will keep the key of his cell, and go in and see that all is safe two or three times a day. I will give you the -medi- cine in a day or two, and the directions for using it." The slave-catcher left, and the other three remained. "Faith," said Scoville, "how do we know he will not be- tray us? He is bad enough for any thing."5 "Because he knows nobody would believe him," said Sin- gleton. "We lave only to stand together, and say he is an infamous liar, as everybody knows he is; and he would be put out of the way in the twinkling of a jack-knife." The patriotic slave-catcher was duly installed' as special guardian of Walter; and his employers had taken pains to ' say to certain persons, who were sure to report it to him, that iti had been thought necessary, for so important a trust, to have some one of character and responsibility. The remark, however, repeated to others, caused a grim smile on many features.    A FAMLY HSTORY.        27'9 Riley was in high spirits; his vanity was touched; and he thought that-now he had surmounted the social prejudice against him, and spoke of the duties that " us leading men owes to society." The first day after his instalment, ihe sent a magnificent bouquet (the' flowers for which he had bribed Dr. Lancy's gardener to procure for him from Mrs.' Lancy's hot-house) to the daughter of Col. Singleton, to whom he had never yet been allowed to speak. She would have indignantly returned it with a stinging message, but her father forbade it. r The next day, she received another still finer, with a card, on which two hearts, with an arrow pierced through them dike two, pigeons on a spit), were nice- ly worked in pencil; an'd underneath this suggestive figure were the oft-quoted lines from Ingomar, in the donor's own proper and peculiar calligraphy, and so altered in the spelling as to conform to the writer's ideas of orthography:- "To Soles with Butt a single thawt, To harts that bete as wun." This was too much even for Col. Singleton to stand; and he soothed his proud and angry daughter by telling her that he would put a stop to such things in the future. He accord- ingly-told Riley, in the course of the day, that his daughter was engaged to a very devil of a fire-eater in Charleston, who w'as jealous and brave as Othello, and'would be sure to call out any man of his own standing if he found him trying t to supplant him in his daughter's affections. He was a terri- ble duellist, was this Palmetto Quattlebum; ,and that was the only objection to him as a son-in-law. "'Butj;" said Riley, his hopes falling fast, "I -seen hler walk home from church twice with Bill Tyson; and the boy that tooklmy bokets said that he took 'em for Bill e'enamosf every day."  "But you know Bill Tyson is nobody: his father awns only four niggers, but he buys tobacco and sells goods; and Bill, because he has been North, and got learning at one of their colleges, thinks a heap of himself. But who would ever' thik of taking him into the Committee of Public Safety?. Oh, no! it's only such men as you are, of high character and large property, that could excite Quattlebum's jealousy. Of course, he 'must be informed of your attentions. I hope you will get, through this little affair in the jail before he comes;   ?  ,  280       GOEmRY OF MONTGOMERY:,' for, if you do not, we must get somebody else, as he will not wait two hours for satisfaction; and, as he is a dead shot, the result will betas well known before it happens as afterwards." "Oh, my dear colonel! I didn't mean nothing. Do write to him, and say as much; and I'll never do so no more." 'I'll do the beqt Ican about it. Butyou must not neglect  this other matter." "(Never fear, colonel, about that.  He'll sleep well to- i morrow night, I reckon."   A FAMLY HSTORY.         281 CHAPTER XXL "Brabantio. Itistootrue ai evil: goneshe is; And what's to come of my despised time    - IS nought but bitterness."--OTHELLO.  THE unfortunate and persecuted Seth Mettlar is fastlocked  up in the Chesterville jail; and no one of his late frierids goes to visit him or bormfort him in his misfortunes. Even his once devoted brother-in-law avoids him; and the swift witness in Boston, who had been a constant and pestilent friend during his days of prosperity, always calling-for more money, and threatening disclosures if he did not get it, suddenly took flight for parts unknown when he learned that his patron and chief had come to grief. Squire Gomery and Joe Pumpagin - for, though his -true name is now known to be Randolph Gault, he is still and always will be called Joe Pumpagin by the people of Montgomery -are busy inpreparing the legal papers that shall restore the Gomery Estate to its rightful owner. Though, by the legal verdicts and decisions in the case of Mettlar vs. Gomery, Joe might claim it for himself, he knew that, in justice, he had no right to it whatever: be- sides, he did not want it if he had. His investments farther west had made him rich,-rich as he wanted to be;. and he felt, that, with a single exception, the labors of his life were over, and hemight rest in quiet, and take his ease till hewas sum- moned to commence his last and longest journey. But he (must make an effort to save Walter; and for that no time is !to be lost. Hastily he applied himselfto preparing his state- ment of his early history, identifying himself as the son of David, Gault, the first settler-on Gault's Hill, and making formal oaths to the same. Then he made' a will, by which ,he named Walter Gomery the heir of all his property; and, in case, he did not survive him, then it was to take the due line of inheritance in the same manner as though he had died seized of it. Thus, if neither were to return alive, the whole of Joe's property would fall to Freeborn Gornery. 24* '   282      GOMERY OF, MONTGOMERY: The papers had all been drawn up so as to be used at the trial of Seth Mettlar in case that Joe should not be able, to return in season to testify at the trial. Every thing was ready; and he sat, in the evening, in the parlor at the Pivot, in company with the squire and his wife and Lady Beresford, discussing different plans for Walter's rescue. It was decided'  t!hat he should leave the next morning-for New York; and there he was to rely on his wits, which, on many occasions as difficult as this, had served him most effectually. It was get- ting late; and they were all about retiring for the night, when a low tap was 'heard at the door. The squire advanced, and opened it; and a crouching female figure, sobbing violently, passed into the room; She sank into a chair near. The bright lights of -the room revealed that it was Hester's mother, Dorcas Homer. "What, my good woman, does this mean?" said the squire. ( She's gone!" sobbed the distressed woman. "(Gone! who's gone?" said he. "Be calm; and, if there is any new trouble, we must see what can be done." !"She has gone, - Hester. She left her house last night in- the night; and I can't find her nowhere."  : 'When did you see her last?" inquired Mrs. Gomery. "Last evening. I left her at seveno'clock tlo go home; and she told the servants all to go to bed, and she has not been seen since. They come and told me, this morning, that she had gone, and I was scared. I said, '-Of course, she has gaone to Chesterville to see her husband;' but Mr. Homer said she had gone any way but that. But I took Mr. Mettlar's horse and wagon, and drove clear up to Chesterville all alone,; and the jailer said there had been no -woman -there;' and I come home, and I couldn't learn any thing about her, though I have inquired at all the neighbors'; and Mr. Homer won't move, but he sets there at home, and don't speak to anybody. The only words he-o said -all day yesterday were, ' My mother, O my mother! forgive me!' And, Obed he calls him hard names; and he drinks dreadful, poor boy!"Here the poor woman broke down, with sobs and sighs; and Mrs. Gomery went and sat -down be'side her, and put her arm around her, and said, No0, no! do not cry so: we will all try andfind Hester; fior we all loved Hester." I;The kind words seemed but to aggravate the unhappy woman's grief; and the half-pent sorrow now gushed forth in.                . . '    A FAMLY HSTORY.         283 loud lamentations and self-upbraidings. After a while, the woman became more calm'; and then the squire told her that they would all set to, and look for Hester on the following day. "If she} had gone away, then Mr. Pumpagin, who -was to leave the next mrorning foi-Bbston and New York,- would inquire at every point for her, and, if he learned any thing of her, would bring her back;.  "Ah, no, no!" said the mother. "She has not gone awaty; she has drowned herself in the river. Ever since she was married, she has been in the habit of going down to the bank of the river, and sitting down on the roots of the big elm that bends over the flood -below the falls, and looking for hours iinto the angry, bubbling stream, I know now what she was thinking of; and she is drowned." Here Joe could not restrain himself; but, as if musing to' himself, said, "Ah, yes! I remember,- ,   .   .        . 'There is a willow grows askant the brook, That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream: Therewith fantastic garlands did she make Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long purples, That liberal shepherds give a grosser name, Bat our cold maids do dead men's fingers call them; There, on the pendent bows her coronet weeds Clambering to hanig, an -envious sliver broke; ', When down her weedy trophies and herself Feill in the weeping brook. " "I do not think she is drowned," said the squire; and to- morrow we will look for her, and will continue to look till we learn something of her fate. Since Ihave lived here, several people have been drowned in the river; but theirlbodies have all been found within a few days. At the place suggested, the river is so rapid, that it is no use to drag the bottom; for a person falling. in there would be carried half a mile below- We will rouse the whole-town for the search to-morrow. Mr. Pumpagin will endeavor to find her if she has gone away toi any distance. So chee' up, my good woman, and let us hope for the best. Your grief is not greater than ours." "Oh, don't say that, Square Gonmery; don't say that! You have not sold your child, and broke his heart for pride and gold, as I have. It is all my fault, my shame, my sin] ti Here the woman broke out again in louder cries, and fell prostrate on the loor,- her hands stretched towards Gomery.    284      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: This, painful scene brought tears into a11 eyes; and Mrs. Gomery attempted to raise the prostrate woman; but her strength was not sufficient. The prostrate form before her was too helpless and limp to make an effort to rise. Joe Pumpagin saw that it was time for him to act. He opened the door to the kitchen, and bade all the servants, consisting of two men and two women, to come in. They came rush- ing in on the instant,-fearing, that something had befallen Mrs. Gomery. "Gently," said Joe, - gently take up that woman, and bear her to a bed; gently, I say." The order was implicitly obeyed; and Mrs. Gomery fol- lowed them into the bed-room, which had always been held as a sort of reserve for any member of the family who might chance to be sick. "Build a fire," said she to one of 'the men. -She then proceeded, with the aid of the maid-ser- vants,- to disrobe the miserable--woman; and, after having placed her in the bed, she told one of the serving-women to go and steep some valerian, and the other to bring the camphor- bottle and the paregoric. Mrs. Gomery had rightly judged , that her patient was suffering from\ nervous excitement, and that what she most needed was rest and sleep. She rubbed her temples with the camphorated ipirit, and gave her a cup of strbng valerian-tea, and .afterwards as much paregoric as she thought it safe to administer.: The woman tried to talk; but Mrs. Gxomery hushed her to silence; and, in the-course of an hour or two, she dropped off into a light sleep. Mrs. Gomery sent the two servants to bed, and said she would call them when wanted. She then sat down by the side-of the sick woman's bed, and remained watching her, repeating the doses of valerian whenever she woke up, till she-heard the clock strike four r Then she called one of the servant-girls to take her place,.and retired to seek her own pillow. Her husband and Joe sat up for an hour or two, till they found that the sick woman had fallen asleep. The next morning, Squire Gomery rose as soon as it was light; but Joe had already left the house, and- gone to the village, where he was to take the stage, and set forth on his journey for the rescue of Walter. Mrs. Homer, though very weak, in the morning was calm, and conscious of what'had passed the night before. She in- sisted on returning home; and the squire took the large   A FAMLY HSTORY.        285 familycarriage, and, with his wife, carried her to her own house. They then drove into the village ; and, telling of the flight of Hester, they set the whole town on the search; but no tidings or trace of her could be found. :When Joe Pumpagin arrived at the. station where the stage discharged its passengers for the train, he inquired if a woman had applied for a ticket the day before. But the sta- tion-master could give no information; for another man had been in charge the day before, and he had:left on the first train that morning for Boston. He inquired -of all the hangers-on, baggage-men, and: cond-uctors,: if they had any recollection of a woman entering the cars at that place the day before; but no one could remember any such person as'-- he described. Some twenty passengers Had entered the train there the day before; among theim, several ladies; but all strangers. Joe felt that his principal business was too pressing for him to wait. He must hurry on, or else be too late; and leave others to the task of finding Hester. With the best despatch he could make, Joe made direct for New York, and, within four hours of his arrival, had bought and paid for the schooner "Post-boy,"' that was already partially loaded with lime, bricks, and lumber, to be taken to. Richmond. He bought every thing, and had the papers duly executed; and, constituting himself commander, in thirty hours after reaching New York, the canvas of the "  Post-boy " could have been seen scudding down the bay before a stiff north-west breeze.  ,        1 1 A,  ,   286       -GOMBRY OF MONTGOMERYV: CHAPTER Xxil. -"He spake of love, - such love as spirits feel In worlds whose course is equable and pure; No fears to beat away, no strife tohieal ; The past unsighed for, and the future sure: Spake of heroic arts in graver mood Revived, with finer harmony pursued. Of all that is most beauteous, imaged there In happier beauty: more pellucid streams, An ample ether, a diviner air, And fields invested with purpureal gleams; Climes which the sun, who sheds the brightest day Earth knows, is all unworthy to survey. "'- WORDSWORTH. DURING the time that Walter's keepers were making their benevolent preparations for his quiet exit from the trials and troubles of this capriciousworld,- he remained closely con- fined in his cell, awaiting the doom that he regarded as inev- itable. He was allowed paper, pen, and ink, and assured by Dr. Lancy, on the honor of a Southern gentleman, that any letters he might wish to send would be sacredly forwarded, with their seals unbroken. He mildly answered that he had already experienced too well the value of slavemongers' honor' to think of trusting to it again. "To that honor;" said he, "I trustedjand was betrayed; but, when I trusted to their cupidity, I succeeded. The man that will stehl will lie: the highwayman will not respect private letters; anrid, as sure as the greater includes the less, the man that will uphold and justify a system that robs a man of himself, imbrutes him, and makes him a thing, a chattel, a slave, will commit any lesser crime.. If you will rob other men of every right that God has given them, why should you respect my right to have my letters forwarded unopened and unread?"    The doctor hastily retired from this charge of hot shot; saying, as  he .went, that "there was only one way to teach low-bred Yankees the respect due to Southern gentlemen." Soon after this, Walter observed that a new keeper was; placed over him. The old jailer, Iverson, for whom he, had   A FATTLY, HSTORY.      '27 begun to form-a sort o regard, no longer had the key of his cell, and never came to see him, except in company with his i new custodian. To this new keeper, Walter, at the first in- terview, felt a deep and instinctive repugnance. He was intrusive of his company and conversation; and, when Wal- ter asked Shim why the other man had been superseded, he told, him confidentially, and in a whisper, that "we citizens of the first families thought it necessary to have a man of i highl character and influence in so important a position." Three days after the new keeper was installed in his office, he was invited to meet Dr. Lancy at his private house. He complied; and, on leaving, took away with him two small papers containing powders. The one was an astringent, nearly tasteless, and calculated to produce thirst, and was to be mixed with the food of the prisoners supper. The other! was morphine, and, of course, intensely bitter. The first would produce thirst; and, when the prisonter should- ask for water, there was to be none in the jail. At that time, the new keeper was to suggest that he was about taking a drink? of ale, and offer a glass to his prisoner, which would doubt- less be accepted, and eagerly drank off without the extra bit- terness from the added soporific being, observed. There was neither art nor novelty in this time-out-of-mind  method of murder; and there was no need of either, as there was no fear of post-mortem investigations. The plan, as sketched by Lancy, was carried out to-the letter by Riley. The bleer, into which the light powder had been thrown, was drunk off by its intended victim; after which social act, Riley immediately left the jail, with the key of Walter's r6om in his pocket, telling Iverson that he should be back again that night, or early in the morning. It was past eleven o'clock When Riley left- the prison. -As soon as he had gone, Waltet began pacing up and down his narrow cell. Gradually he experienced a most pleasing sensation stealing over him; when, divesting himself of his clothes, he lay down on his low,imiserable bed, and blew out the only tallow dip that 'was allowed him. A moment' after, he fancied he heard his name called by a soft voice at his solitary window. He listened, and was sure he heard the words, "Walter, Walter! speak to me!- one word!" in a tone that Iwas most pleasing and familiar. But the powerful . opiate he had taken rendered his thoughts intensely rapid I    288      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY : and'inconsecutive. Notwithstanding this, however the fan- cied resemblance too a voice that once breathed into his ears the words of love, that, after their forfeiture, still retained a lingering sweetness, caused his thoughts to take up the tangled thread -of his unhappy passion; and, in a few short moments, he seemed to live over again the joys of his entire life. But the sweet, sad tones of the familiar voice continued to sound in his ears as his whole life seemed to spread out in a grand panorama before him. It appeared to him that he was lifted above the earth, and that earthly love was the only bond that connected him with it, and that love had a perpetual sad refrain. Yet it was a delicious delirium. Then he closed his eyes to the darkness to contemplate the evqr-changing, ever-beautiful scenes and objects that floated before his mental sight. Then he yielded to a state of insen- sibility, and knew no more for he knew not how long. At length he awakened to what appeared to him a new life; and his firt thought was, that old things had passed away, and that he had entered on that existence which is , without end. He saw not, knew not, where he was; but the pains, the doubts, the cares, of earth had lost their hold on, him. The sadness of love's refrai'i was changed to tran- scendent joy. He seemed to be drifting out on the sea of eternity; and while a perfect recollection, or rather present consciousness, of every event, scene, thought, bias, action, love, and passion, was present to him, he looked back upon it all as past, and as if each had contributed to fit him for the full enjoyment of his exceeding happiness. He seemed to mingle in and become a part of the great ocean of infinity. Though -mingling thus, like the raindrops with the ocean, he still preserved his identity, and his individual, distinct con- sciousness; and the dark spots on his life, that he viewed with sorrow: in the flesh, were still reproachfully visible, and seemed to say it must be millions of ages ere they could be washed out, anod fade away in the light of all-consuming love. And ye4t his happiness so far excelled :all human conceptions of blissthat his soul swelled with praise to his Cr;eator for having brought him out from the gross cares of time to bathe in this eternal ether. The power of motion and speech were gone; and yet he seemed to know and be permeated with theli knowledge, feelings, sensations, and ideas of those around him, who mingled and made up the infinity of beings that    A FAMLY HSTORY.        289 pervaded space. His sensitiveness to happiness seemed a thousand times multiplied; and, compared with present enjoy- nment, all that had passed was as the lightest trifles. They were mere nothings., They seemed only to have been the means of developing and forming his character, as chinks or cogs in the machinery of his life, that had at last evolved a being capable of exquisite happiness. And yet he appeared to be on the shores of the great ocean of eternity; and the happiness he enjoyed was but as a grain of sand on the seashore, conm- pared with the measureless expanse of divine effulgence which it would require an eternity to contemplate, though ever progressing from one stage of happiness to another, ever opening on new fields of knowledge, ever going from the surprise of before-unseen excellence to iyet brighter. views; passing on thus, from stage to stage, through an eter- nity of beatitude. The loves'of earth seemed developed into ethereal realization; and even then, before its object had yet left the earth, he seemed to be quickened, thrilled, and intensely electrified by the presence of that love, which, in life, he had thought lost and fatal. All had served to quicken, strengthen, and intensify the great joy and boundless rapture of eternity; and he blessed the good Being who had made him for the adversities he had endured. How long he continued in this illusion or revery he had no idea: it might have been moments or ages. Time, with- the things of earth, had been left behind. Riley, after having left the jail, went to his own house; but, as might naturally be supposed of a man who had just com- mitted murder, he was restless, and unable to sleep, though he took several large glasses of raw whiskey as a sleep- J compelling sedative. -He lay tossirig in his bed for an hour, and then rose and dressed himself; and again- went forth into the street. Against his will, he was impelled to stray down in the direction of the jail. The night was dark and still; and he approached, thinking to listen, and satisfy himself that .all was progressing favorably. He drew near to0the   i main door, and applied his ear to the keyhole. Nothing could be heard but the heavy snoring of old Mose, the negro whose business it was to keep the jail in order. He passed round the corner bf the jail to reach Walter's window; but, just as he drew near, a figure in white jumped up,'and VOL. UI.    25   290      OOMBRY OF MONTGOMERY:      - gave a slight, faint cry, and fled into the darkness. But it did not fly half as fast in one direction as Riley did in, the other. The first glimpse was enough for him. He did not doubt that it was a veritable ghost; and, dark as it was, he could not have made more direct nor half as rapid tracks to his own room, had it been broad daylight, and his own dogs, like Actson's, in pursuit. He entered his room, but was so agitated, he could scarcely lock his door; and he dared not strike a light, for fear it should -betray him to the ghost or devil, or whatever it might be, that he was now persuaded had come for him. To add to his griefs, in feeling for his whiskey-bottle in the dark, he had knocked it from the table, and broken it, with a noise that made him shudder; for it -smote him as if it-had been the Devil's own knock, and an inexorable summons to follow him. His only retreat was to jumpI into his bed with his clothes on, hide his head be- neath the coverlid, and shudderingly await the approach of daylight. It is supposed that the night was long to the unfortunate traveller who stumbled over a precipice, and saved himself from instant destruction by catching hold of a root, or cord, at the end of which he dangled, not doubting, that, if he let go, he would be dashed in pieces hundreds of feet below. But it was hardly longer than the night was to cock-eyed Riley, as he lay crouching and shivering in his bed. But to both the light at last came. To one it revealed the smooth, level ground, but two inches fror his feet; and to the other the scarcely- less joyful fact, that the bottle which fell from the table the night before with such an appalling /crash was not the whiskey-bottle after all, and that that great solace still stood unharmed on the table, with a good half-pint of the pure juice of the cor. He jumped up, poured this into a dirty glass, swallowed it, and felt greatly com- forted. As soon as tihe first rays of the sun began to strike across the country, and play among the tops of the trees, Riley called: out to his own personals servant to .,go down to the ja, and tell Iverson to send up his overcoat, that he had left in the cell of that Yankee. The negro departed with the message, taking the key of Walter's cell, which he delivered to the jailer.   ! Ivelrson unlocked and pushed open the door of Walters room, and started back aghast. There lay the prisoner on   A FPMT Y HSTORY.       291 his cot, to, all appearance dead. His limbs were rigid, his eyes closed, and the breathing had ceased. He ordered Riley's servant to return at once, and inform his master that the. Yankee was dead, and to come down quick.. Old Mose stood looking on agape, at first unable to utter':a word. ; Then he so far recovered his self-possession, that he said, "I knowed it, I knowed it, I knowed it! I heard de angels calling; 'Walter, Walter!' in de night." The messenger with the news, more scated than the jailer, rushed up towards the hotel, where, by this time, some half- dozen were assembled, including Riley, Col. Singleton,'and Dr. Lancy. "He's dead, he's dead!-dat ar Yankee!" he exclaimed, as soon as he could catch his breath sufficiently to speak.       il            .  I "Dead!" said Lancy in well-affected surprise. 'What- does that mean? At once, they all began moving towards the jail; Riley being in advance, having good reasons for wishing to enter first. They found the prisoner as before described. Dr. Lancy examined him with dainty fingers, as if he feared infection, to see if he were indeed dead. There was no pulse; and, on raising his eyelid, it fell back into its place again with no signs of muscular contraction. They then looked about the room to see if there were any signs of his having committed suicide.  At first, they could discover? nothing; but Riley, lifting up the end of the old mattress on which the lifeless man lay, drew  forth an ounce vial, nearly empty, labelled "Laudanum, poison."   He had put it there the night be-. fore, unobserved by Walter; and, on finding it, evinced more surprise than-all the rest. 'The   knave has cheated the gallows," said Singleton. "It is just like these mean Yankees: they must always be cheating somebody!   He couldn't even die without cheating the hangman.' It is an illustration of the old saying, '"The ruling passion strong in death."'  i   n de' ,  "Likely's not he is playing possum, and ain't dead after all," said the overseer of Singleton, who had come in with his master. "I never seed a dead man look like that-before," Dr. Lancy again looked at the body. "It has a singular appearance," said he, "sure enough. Is there a looking-glass in the prison? Let me see if there is any breath left in his ungodly carcass."   ,   22       GOMERY OF; MONTGOMERY  "There, is no glass in the jail, except that big one in my room, that -is all cracked,' answered ,the jailer. "Has any one ,a bowie-knife with him?" \ Several drew forth their shining blades. : Theldoctor took the newest and brightest, and wiped its glittering surface on his handkerchief, and held it to the lips of the subject. Its bright polish was not in the least dimmed. There was no breath to dim, it. "He is dead eDiough," said the, dodtor; "at least, dead enough to bury."  "If he ain't dead," said Riley, "we'll take care he don't dig ont."                      i "Get a box, Iverson," said Singleton, "and have him buried' in the burying-ground for free niggers." "Aren' t there to be no fiuneral, no nothing?" "No: he lived like a dog, he died like a dog, and let him be buried like a dog!" The party of gentlemen then left the jail, leaving Iverson and old Mose alone with the dead.  , Old Mqse was a well-known character about Lancaster. Though a full-blood African, he was by birth a subject of Great Britainj and had' first come to Georgia a cook 0on boardbof an Englishvessel. But, unfortgnately, he was, one night, surrounded by a conclave of cdlored people, read- ing and expounding the Bible. For this offence against the laws of Georgia, he was put in prison; and, for some un- explained cause, his vessel went off, and left him there. Had he been a native African, or a native of the,United States, he would probably have been sold off for jail-fees after a few months' detention. But, as it was, he remained in prison two years, and was at last so fat liberated as to be made a. sort of scavenger about the jail, being allowed to go out and travel about the town; having, in fact, more privileges than most free negroes. In this way he was regarded as a slave, though nobody owned him; and in' this capacity he remained for more than twenty years, till his kinky hair became as white as snow, and his big horn spectacles were as familiar to the residents of Lancaster as the countv-y court-house. . "Mose," said Iv erson, after the party had withdrawn, "go and get a box for that carrin!" "Massa, he aren't no carrin: he's an angel." , "One of the Devil's angels, then." .   A FAMLY HSTORY.        293 "No, massa; an angel of lub and truf. I heard anoder angel a' callin' him in the night. Look a dar! you nebber see bad man die, and hab such smiling, lably face. I'spect ebery moment to see him bust out wid de song ob de Re- deemer, and see him go up like ole 'Lijah." Iverson looked at the upturned face: there was certainly something unusual, something startling, in its appearance. The hard man recoiled; a shudder passed through his frame; / and he turned away from. the motionless clay, saying with forced sternness, "Go, go, and do as I bid you! Get a box for the, body, and send lame Pete out to the Black Patch near the bluff to dig a hole." "O Lord!" said Mose, casting up his eyes. "To bury a angel wid de firee niggers an' poor white trash! I 'spect a resurrectionl," The old man turned away, and left the prison; but he coluld not believe the man to be buried was dead. He did not look like a dead man; and yet there -were no signs of life. "I reckon dey won't get him under ground dis day, if old Mose has any ting to do wid it," he muttered to him- self.        ; It was a long timebefore he could find lamWe Pete to tell him what was to be done. "It's a bery-sad business, Pete," said he; "and I'm afeard you'll feel very low in de mouf. But 'ere is a quarter of a dollar for your 'couragement." - Pete took the money, and limped off, with pick and shovel, to dig the grave; but, as Mose intended he should - : do, he stopped at a house where lived a miserable character, who supported himself by buying. stolen goods from the negroes, and selling them contraband whiskey. The silver piece was exchanged for a quart of the juice of the corn; and Pete went- his way rejoicing, and began his work in great glee: but, before he had digged the grave a foot deep, he was too drunk to go on with his work, and lay down on the grass and fell asleep, and only woke up when the effect of one swig had passed off; and then he would take another, and fall into the same state of sleep, or stupor, as before. Mose, too, was delinquent; for he could find nothing for a long tiine to make a box of to serve for a coffin. He was "i obliged to search through the entire village before he could, make a satisfactory bargain for the lumber. One man, living in the other extreme of the town, had lumber to sell;: but, 26* j* '  -   294      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: Mose feared his price was too high: so he returned for furher instructions, contriving in this way to use up a couple of hours. Then he managed to spend a long time more before - he got it to the carpenter's; and purposely left one board, so , I as to occasion more delay. The result of all this management was, that the box did not get to the prison till near sunset. Then, Mose sent a boy to -the Black Patch to see if the \grave was dug and ready. The wordcame back that it was ;lot a foot,deep, and lame Pete was lying drunk beside it. I Iveison was very much enraged at the delay. He was superstitious and ignorant; and, during the day, it was mys- teriously hinted that a ghost had been seen about the neigh- borhood for several nights past. He inquired of old Mose about it; and-Mose said it was no ghost, but an angel; for he had heard'it in the ni'ght, calling "Walter, Walter!" in a voice just like an angel's. He said," De todder niggers say it are a ghost; but dey is ignorant darkeys, and don't know de diff'rence." ut, whatever it was, Mose admitted it had been seen for three- ights past, flitting round the jail, and always running of, when observed, to the woodsjust beyond the lack Patch, as the burying-ground of the free negroes and white trash was called. It had been proposed during the day to Riley that he should turn out with-his dogs, and hunt this unknown visitant; but he had received such a fright firom it himself, that he said his dogs were sick. Iverson was in a sad plight and knew not: what to do. He did not like the idea of sleep- ing 4nother night under thie same roof with the dead man; and he was ashamed to 1etray his fears. The unusual ap- pearance of the body, cdmbined with the reports of the' mysterious figure that had been seen floating about, as the negroes said, without touching the earth, had so wrought on his credulous and benighted mind, that he was in grievous  perplexity. But -the night was now upon him, and there was no help for him, As a sort of body-guard, therefore, he told A old Mose to brsing his bed of rags into his room, and sleep on the floor there, instead of, in the entry of the jail, as was his custom.  The veteran obeyed the order; but, even with that precaution for mutual'protection, it was little that either slept. lMose did not believe that the man in the other room: was dead, and he greatly doubted whether he was a man at all; and, as he lay on the floor, he speculated deeply on the ohiaraciter of the strange being, whose conduct had been so Q       .    A, FAMLY. HSTORY.       295- different from that of all men who had lived since the age of miracles. "Fact is," he muttered to himself, "I 'spect 'tis anoder Moses, come to lead the chil'en of de Lord out from dis land o' bondage. Den dar's two Moseses, me and t'other:; an' de Lord no hab two Moseses. No: it's Aaron, and I is de Moses." "What are you jabbering about there, Mose," said Iver- son. "I'se 'specting a miracle in the- morning. Dat man is de Aaron de Lord-has sent to jine with me; dat is, Moses, to lead our people out of de land o' bondage." "Reckon you'll find, cock-eyed Riley hard arter you, if you try that," said Iverson. "I reckon you'd better not try to foller us, if you don't want to be cotched up in the deep water like Pharaoh and his hosts was."          - ( Why, how was that?"  "They was all drownded in the Red Sea.' Iverson shuddered, and told Mose to hold his tongue; and then, pulling the bed-clothes over his head, he tried to sleep. But sleep he couldn't. He lay tossing on his bed; and about midnight he fancied he heard -the strange, soft, gentle voice calling "Walter!" 'Mose," said he, "'did you hear that?" "Sartain I did. It is de angel,--same as I heard it last' night." But, angel, or not, the sound of their voices seemed to have frightened it away; and they heard no more of it. But so frightened was Iverson, that every few minutes he called out to Mose, as if fearing he was asleep, and not pro- tecting him, or angry that ,he should sleep while his master could not.     ; At about four o'clock in the morning, Mose said he thought he heard a noise in the dead man's cell. "Rats," said Iverson.  "No, it's not rats. P'raps it's;de angels come to take him," "Angels!  Devils, more like. How are the angels going- to -take him?" "P'raps on a sea of glass like what the Millerites brag on. P'raps ole Jacob will let down his ladder. Then, agin, p'raps he'll go up like ole 'Lijah.. Thar! I heerd a noise agin. It was a voice!." "Hold your tongue, you miser'ble nigger! Why didn't   ;296,      GOMEBY OF MONTGOMERY. you bury t im yesterday? I'll have you flogged to-mor- row!'  With this threat, Iverson drew his head under the bed-clothes,', and sought to keep out all unwelcome sounds; and Mose lay, with his ears all open, intently listening for other sounds. As soon as, it was daylight, Mose got up; and the jailer, who was still awake, told him to take the key, and unlock the door of the dead prisoner's cell; for, after he was supposed to be dead, it was thought that Iverson might be trusted with the key of his room. The order was obeyed with  " hesitation by the old negro, who slowly unlocked the door; :and looked cautiously in, suspecting and hoping to find the room vacant. But there lay the body as it had lain the day before. He- approached to scrutinize the face, and rushed,horror-stricken, from the room. '0 Massa Iverson, he's alike, he's alive! I seen him wink!" "Yot silly old fool!' said Iverson, jumping out of bed, and catching his pantaloons in his hand: "how can a dead man wink?" But the voice of the supposed dead, speaking just so as to be heard, but too faint for the woIds to be distinguished, was sufficient to dispel all the jailer's doubts, and send him from the jail, pantaloons in hand, as if a spirit with a cloven foot and fiery tail had risen through the floor before him. He rushed up through the street with his toilet thus incomplete, and did not stop till he had entered the bar-room of the hotel, where an old slave was just sweeping up the "old sogers" of the night before. "He ain't dead!"said he in breathless haste. : '"Who ain't dead?" "That Yankee that stole the niggers. He's come to life agin!"The sweeper dropped his broom, and ran out to tell the news; and Iverson, happening just then to catch a sight of himself in the glass, drew on his pantaloons. The landlord, at -that moment, came in to get his morning dram, and, seeing Iverson still half dressed and barefoot, inquired the cause of this early visit. He ain't dead, after all; and he's come to life again "'  "Who ain't dead?" "Why, that Yankee that pisened himself." "Oh, that's nothing!  He was only in a stupor. Why didn't the fools make sure, and bury him yesterday?"   ,  .A FAMLY HSTORY.        .297 O"Lord, Lord! 'll never have any thing mLiore to do' with that man." Early as it was, the news soon spread through the village that the dead man was alive- again; and,just as the sun was arising, at least a dozen men- could have been seen hurrying towards the jail. They entered, and found the man had not moved, though he was breathing gently, and winding as (I can't move my limbs, doctor," said he to Lancy, who i was one of the first to enter, and approach his bedside. "I seem to have been in a kind of trance ; for I have had the strangest visions-ever seen by man. But I can't move myy limbs. Just lift up my hands, if you please." The doctor complied; and the movement seemed to restore the muscles and the nerves to the power of the will. He, raised his head, and looked round in surprise.  "Why, it's all a dream, then," said he. 'I thought I had left the world. What time is it?" "A little after sunrise." "What! aill that in one night?" Iverson was about to tell him that he had been two nights and one day in his trance; but he was motioned to silence, and, at an intimation from Lancy, they all left the room. The Committee of Public Safety met again that morning at ten o'clock. Riley was called in; and the subject of get- ting rid of their prisoner was again discussed, and with more anxiety than ever. The danger was now increased a hun- dred-fold. The slaves, far and near, had all heard, or would hear within twenty-four hours, that the man who had proved himself so great a deliverer, and whom before they had al- ;most worshipped as a god, had actually risen from the dead. No time must now be lost. The patrols of the town imust be doubled, and the negroes on the plantations more closely watched than ever; and with as little delay as possible, with- out exciting suspicion of foul play, the cause of all this anx- iety must be put of the way. It was decided that Riley should resume his office of watchman that night, and must find some way to make an end of the prisoner. He was to try the beer experiment 1a second time ;. and if the victim proved suspicious, or refused to drink the prepared chalice, then he was to be despatched with a knife or pistol-ball, and !            298      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: the pretence made that he had been killed 'in an attempt to escape. During the ,day, Walter lay in that sort of half-stupor that would naturally result from re-action after the joyous delirium which he had experienced. He talked little; though Iverson and Mose, and several others, often Ifavored him with their company in the course of the day. He sus- pected nothing of the attempt that had been made on his life. Towards night, the stupor seemed to pass, off; and he signified to Iverson that he was hungry. A more bountiful repast was furnished him than he had yet seen since he had been a prisoner; and he -ate unsuspectingly and with relish. A mug of beer, which had been charged with a dose of morphine three times as powerful as that of the preceding night, was sent to him with his food. Riley remained in his room until his meal had been eaten, to satisfy himself that the prepared dose had gone home 'to its victim, and to guard, lest if any were not taken by the prisoner, it should be used so as to destroy valuable human property. But it was all drunk by Walter, who soon after warmed into con- versation, and talked so rapturously of visions opening to his view, that Riley was afraid to stay with him alone, but- called in Iverson and Mose- to sustain and defend him if necessary. But the "leprous distilment" coursed its wav through the natural gates and alleys of the body with such rapidity, that the prisoner's words soon became confused and incoherent. ,Then, lying down on his low bed, and saying, "It is time, the world is going, it is left, and oh how bright and joyousl!" he closed his eyes, and was again on the broad sea of infinite love that makes up the universe of God.              .   , *    A FAMLY HSTORY.        ,299 CHAPTER      XXIll. "I guess 'twas frightful there to see A. lady so richly clad as she, Beautiful exceedingly."-- COLERIDGE. 6A lady wondrous fair; But the rose of her cheek had faded away, And her cheek was as white and cold as clay, And torn was her raven hair."--PBAED. THAT Death had done his work was but too evident when the door of Walter's room was opened the next morning. There was none of that undeath-like appearance of a seem- ing lifeless body as was observed two mornings before. He was clearly dead. Even old Mose said he was dead now, sure enough. Nevertheless, those who had murdered him felt a strange misgiving, as if fearing lest he- should rise again; and the orders were given to bury him immediately. Several slaves were sent to the Black Patch to complete what lame Pete had begun, and a flogging promised to them all if the grave was not finished by ten o'clock. The rough box was hastily knocked together, and received its tenant; an old cart, drawn' by two scare-crow mules, was driven up to the jail, and received its load; and Iverson and old Mose followed it to the Black Patch, where it was lowered into the grave, and the dirt shovelled hastily upon it. Iverson witnessed with silent terror the stern, sad faces of the negroes. On ordinary occasions of grave-digging and burial, they were accustomed to laugh as loudly, and joke as freely, as those grave-makers who jested with Hamlet when digging Ophelias grave. But now they said nothing, silently working away till the grave was filled, and rounded on the top, when th'ey walked quietly away, each going off by him- self, as if he had too great a grief at his heart to care for condolence or sympathy. A death-like stillness prevailed through the town during the day. Towards evening, however, an unusual number   800      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY : assembled about the hotel; and, as they fortified themselves with whiskey, they waxed valiant and noisy and communica- tive. It ivas now in the early part of December, and the nights were' of course cool; and, as the darkness closed around, the people gathered into the bar-room, which was warmed by a wood-fire, and lighted with numerous tal- low dips. Among the I company appeared a man whom no one seemed to know. 1He was an elderly person, evidently a seafaring man; of stout build, enormously broad shoul- ders, and with a broken, indescribable nose. He was the most talkative of the whole company, and was ready to drink with every one. He sat down by a table at one side of the room; and then, pulling out a handful of gold coin, laid it down before him, and called out, - "Landlords landlord 1 do you see that?"' "I see it,' replied Boniface, " and would like to put it in my own pocket." "Well, then, treat all these gentlemen at my expense,- good whiskey, pure French brandy, port wine, - the best you have got." The landlord complied, and set before him various decan- ters, and all the glasses in his miserable tavern, consisting of six that were whole and two that were cracked; and then the stranger bade all to help themselves, which they were not slow to do. Such a dispenser of liquors could not fail to have a crowd of admirers round him directly, all of whom were curious to know who this singular stranger could possibly be. He soon set their minds at rest on that score, however, by telling them he was a slave4rader; and was going up through Caro- lina and Virginia to-buy up a gang of slaves to take to Texas; that he wanted to buy them in different places, where he could make good bargains as he went through; and should return, and pick up his scattering purchases a month or two later. "You have come to a bad place here," said Riley, " to buy hands; for more'n a hundred of our niggers run off about two months ago, and nary one of 'em was ever cotched. Dogs was worth nothin'." " Why, how was that?" "You see, thar was a Yankee schoolmaster here, a regular infidel and abolitionist, and he set 'em on to it; and they gotA * :fXei'        h e \ e    '   A FAMLY BiSTORY.       .301 off on a schooner, and he smashed up the steamer that went after them, so we couldn't catch 'em. You must have read about it in the papers." "'Pears to me I did hear suthin' of it,7 said the stranger; whom the -reader must know is Joe Pumpagin: " but the fact is I was born and fotched up in-Mississip, and don't know -how to read; but, as a judge of niggers and mules, I'll turn my back to no man. But what did you do with that Yankee? He did not get away with the niggers, did he?" "Nary time. We cotched him, and had him in jail more'n a month;, and he pisened himself last night, and was buried among the firee niggers this morning." The start that this information gave Joe must have at- tracted the attention of the crowd, had not their free pota- tions already obfuscated their wits. But he recovered hiirm- self on the instant, and said, "We don't give 'em time todo that down our way. We just catch 'em, and hang 'em the same day when we find 'erM fooling with our niggers. But tell me all about this business." Riley then began a narrative of the atrocious acts of the man whom he said they had "planted" that morning, in which office he was assisted by several others -more drunk than he, who supplied oaths and opprobrious adjectives when- ever lie left an opening for their application. His story was in substance the same as that which had been promulgated through the Southern newspapers, with which Joe was already familiar. :It was only when the manner of Walter's death was approached that he became curious and inquisitive. Riley detailed with great particularity the circumstances of his long trance, and related how he had himself found the vial, marked "Laudanum," under his-pillow. Others here broke in to tell about the ghost that had been seen for several nights flitting about the prison; and Riley confessed that , he had seen it himself: "How was that?" said Joe. "Why, you see, one night I was afeard he would try to get out, and about midnight I walked down to see if all was safe; and as I crept along towards his window, assure as I am alive, I seen a ghost, or a woman, or shmething in white, jump up, and fly away like a white crane across a swamp. I didn't think much of it at' the time; but, when I heard that a good X many others had seen it, I knowed it was a ghost; and old VOL. II   . 26   ,   - 302     GOMERY OP MONTGOMERY: Mose, who sleeps in the jail, says he heard it calling out in the night: but as soon as we got him dead, safe dead the second time, we took good care the ghosts should, pot bring him to life again." "As soon as you got him dead: that is a good joke; that is the way we serve 'em in Mississip." "No, no! I mean as soon as he took pisen, and died." "Ah, ah! I understand; good joke: come, come, you don't drink any thing. Now a good stiff horn all round." Riley, for some reason, did not like the last allusions of the queer-looking stranger, and soon left the company, and was followed by such of the others as were not too drunk to trust their legs. Joe called for more liquor, and soon had the re- mainder of the company, including the landlord, too drunk to notice his departure. He then left the room, and walked rapidly down towards the river, below the town, where the "Post-boy" had been moored to the bank since seven o'clock in the evening. He roused his mate and two others, and, aided by a dark lantern, he made his way in the direction which Riley had indicated as the Black Patch.  As he passed along a few rods in advance of his men, he saw a decrepit old negro moving painfully and slowly in the same direction. He approached him quickly, and, placing his hand on his shoulder, said sternly, "Where are you goin? ' The old slave dropped piteously on his knees, held up his hands, and began to beg for mercy. "Oh, don't, massa; don't! I was only going down to the Yankee's grave." "Go on, then," said Joe; "show me the way." The old man limped away; Joe following a few steps behind him, and his men bringing up the rear. They coursed along the outskirts of the town until they came to the edge of a wood consisting of magnolias, black-oaks, laurels, and syca- mores, underneath which, in some parts, was a thick under-' growth, and in others was nothing but dead leaves, stray branches, and protruding roots. The negro slowly and pain- fully made his way along the cart-road, through this wood, until he came to an ,opening of a few acres, one side of which bordered the bank of the river. "Is this the Black Patch?" asked Joe. "Yes, massa: here's whar dey bury all de poor niggers and de white trash. I 'spect to be buried here. De Yankee's grave is close by.?'   A FAMLY HSTORY. s       303 "What is that moving along there?" asked Joe, stopping, and' pointing towards a moving figure that flitted rapidly awuay among the trees. "O Lord, massa! dat is de ghost come back again!" cDo you know ;who I am?" said Joe. ' No, mnassa." "I am Satan. I am come to carry away the dead man; but this other spirit has been here before me; and now I am going to take you. But, first, I will make terms with you. Go home, and say nothing of what you have seen to-night, and I will resign all claim to you." Just at this time, Joe let a flash, from the dark lantern illumine his own strange-looking visage; and the old man dropped, half 'frightened to death, upon his knees. "O good Mr. Devil!" said he, "please let me go, and I'll never peach a word!"         - "Be off, then! and mind, if you look behind you, you will be struck dead. Mind, now, you don't tell anybody that the Devil was outwitted, and had his journey to this -suburb- of his domiinions; for then they will set up a rebellion in hell. Now, off with yourself! and mind you don't open your mouth- for one week!" The negro needed no second order; but, as fast as his old, decrepit limbs could carryh im, he hasteneld back through the woods, nor cast an eye behind him till he was safe within his own miserable hovel. Joe then approached the mound of fiesh earth; and, tell. ing his companions to dig as for dear life, he struck off into the woods, in the direction of the strange figure. He soon caught sight of it again; and it-seemed to flit from behind one large tree to another more distant. He then brought up the lantern, and opened the slide that shut in the light, and brought it in front of him, - moving it so as to reveal his own form and features. Then, seeing the figure still inoving, he called out, "Hester!"Il stopped; but, as he advanced, it moved away. Then he stopped, and again called, "Hester!"' Then he pronounced his own name, and the figure moved afew steps towards him. It stopped again, and he advanced towards it. Again it receded; -and then he held the lantern before him to give him the advantage of its light, and ran towards it. It ran into a thicket; but its clothes got entangled in the thorns and underbrush, and Joe   304   a   GOMERY oF OPNTGOMERY : soon overtook it, crouching on the ground, its face upturned towards him. He held the tlight to get a view of the up- turned features. One glande was sufficient: the face was thin, wild, and haggard; the hair dishevelled'; and the large blue eyes, that he remembered as so beautiful once, now glared from their sockets with that unearthly, haunting look that betrays the hopeless maniac. "Hester," said Joe, " don't you remelnber me,- Old Joe, Joe Pumnpagin, Walter's friend?"  "Walter Walter, Walter!" said she. "Yes, yes: I'll go and find him. But he is dead: I saw them put him in the ground. I only askled one word. He gave all to the poor slave, but not one word of forgiveness fol poor Hester." 't Come, then, let us go," said Joe, taking her by the arm, and raising her up. She offered no resistance,but suffered her- self to be led gently along till they came to the grave, where, by this time, the sailors had so well employed their time, that they had dugout the earth from above the rude coffin, and were just lifting it to the surface. "Take it up, and fol- low me," said Joe to the two sailors, who stood awe-struck and surprised at the sight of the dim figure which they saw at the skipper's side. They obeyed without question; and Joe, taking the spades and lantern in one ,lnnd, while with the other he firmly held Hester by the wrist, led the way to the rivers bank, to a point that was' within astone's-cast from the place where the "( Post-boy " was moored. He gave a peculiar whistle; and directly a boat put off to the shore, into which the coffin was first placed: then Joe entered it, tenderly bearing in his arms the frail figure that had so alarmed his companions, holding it as tenderly as ever mother held her sick child. They were soon aboard the schooner with their burden; and the order was given to cast off, and make sail without delay. A stlong breeze was setting sea- ward; and the moon, that always shines opportunely for romancers and historians, was just-rising sufficiently to reveal the headlands; and, before sunrise, the "Post-boy" was be- yond danger of pursuit. The little cabin of the ;"Post-boy" had been prepared on the oultward voyage to receive a passenger, but not the one who now claimed the attention of the master. Into this the night-wanderer was taken; and, by the 'dim lights of the vessel, Joe looked upon the wretched figure that lay on   ;1 -    A FAMLY HSTORY.        305 the cot before hir. The emaciated face, with dishevelled hair, the eyes of unnatural lustre, were ever- turnedf towards him with a wild, demented look. The garments, once white, rich, and delicate, were soiled and damp; and the feet had nothinrg left upon them but the dangling remnants of shoes and stockings.' The soles came cdirectly upon the ground, anl were bledclingS , blistered, and torn. From her ears dangled a pair of finely cllased gold ear-rings, - the gift of Walter when she was a little girl; and she wore a diamond ring, that sparkled in the light. But it was not a marriage- ring, though it was on that finger where the marriage-ring hadl once been. It was the last gift from Walter, which lihe put upon her finger the evening before he left to return no more. Joe's -first care was to administer a powerful sedative. Then, drawing off the fragments of the once delicate shoes and stockings, he brought a tub of warm water, and gently washed and dried the-ppor maniac's feet, and drew over them a pair of his own thick, warm, woollen socks. Then he left her to the care of the stewardess, who gently removed the other damp and soiled garments; and, having supplied her with clean linen fi'om her own stock, she rolled her in a .pair of blankets; and, as the opiate wasjhavingc its effect, she sat. down to watcll her as she slept. Anxiously they waited for the morning light. Joe Pumpa- gin paced fi'om sterm to stern the deck of the "Post-boy," at every turn stopping to contemplate for a few moments the rouch box that contained all that was mortal of Walter Golmery, and occasionally looking into the cabinto make sure that his charge was still sleeping. The night wore away; and, as the sun rose bright and red before them, the gallalt little "Post-boy" skimmed like a bird before the seaward breeze. Great was, the consternation at Lancaster the next day when it was reported that the body of the twice-dead and once-bturied Yankee had been spirited away. "t supersti. tious fear and horror possessed the minds of the entire peo- ple when it- was known that his grave had been invaded. Who could have done this? -At first, the impression was that some of the negroes had disinterred him in order to ,-give him a more decent and Christian burial. But the ne- groes all, within many miles, had been carefully guarded 26*   306      GOMERY OF MONTGOMERY: duriing the last month; and, after thorough inquiry, it ap- peared that not a slave within twenty miles had been out of his quarters durling that night. The old negro who had act- ed as a guide to Joe was iegarded as too old and lame to need watching, and therefore no guard had been set over him. I But a stronger evidence that they had had nothing to do with the matter was the undoubting and, absolute faith \they had that he had been borne away by supernatural means. What, in the mean time, had become of the high-toned, free-handed, queer-looking stranger who had dispensed his gold-pieces so liberally the night before? He was gone; and nobody knew how or whence he came, or how or whither he had gone. \ Amysterious-looking schooner had been 'seen sailing up the river the afternoon before, by the inhabitants living near the bank. The Committee of Public Safety again met, and, after long and anxious'deliberation, concluded that the best way to frighten "the slaves to quiet and submis- sion was to assert that the mysterious stranger was none other than the Devil, who had come and taken away his own. The next sabbath evening, Parson Southside preached a ser- mon on this theory, especially for the slaves, to which many of them  were compelled to listen. He told them, that, by  divine ordinance,' it .was their lot to be slaves; that the Lord had directly enjoined 'it upon them to be obedient to their masters; and'-that he had especially shown his disappro- ' bation and displeasure towards one of the infidel and ungodly by turning him over to Satan, as it were, before their eyes. But the poor benighted darkies could not see the conduct of the man, who had given his life that others of their race might escape from slavery, in the same light as the learned pastor. If he had gone to the bad place, and such as Parson Southside and cock-eyed Riley were going to the land of the saints, then they thought they might as well follow their proved firiend and deliverer; for, if the doctrine preachedlto them was iq ue, they felt they would be s,ure of better com- pany and better treatment with the' Devil and his angels than with the Lord and hisfsaints. Btut, a few days after, old Congo told his stoiy of his en- counter with the odd-looking' unknown, who carried an eye like a ball of fire in his hand, or else swung it round at the end of his tail;I and how this strange being laid hold of him, .              ,   A FAMLY HSTORY,        307 and made him go before, and point out the grave; and, when - - they got near, they saw a ghost ,or angel start- up, and fly away; at which his companion was very angry, and said he was Satan, and the angel of the Lord had been there before him, and he had had all his journey for nothing. After that, continued the old man, lhe fell to swearing awfully, and said he had never been able to catch a genuine slave-stealing abolitionist, and hadn't any specimen of one in all his king- dom; but he: had priests and popes and generals and colonels, and high-toned gentlemen, but he was always too late to get hold of those fellows who risked their own lives to give freedom to the poor' slaves. -Then Old Nick told  him .to go back home, and not to speak of the night's adven- ture for a week; for, if he did, le would come and take hiM off, and keep him in chains for ever and ever. Within two days after this story was first' divulged, it was known: by every negro within twenty miles of Lancaster, and slortly aftei by the white people as,well., The whole white population were now in greater alarin than ever. They felt that a volcano was smouldering beneath them, and might burst out- at any moment. A general insurrection of the slaves was feared; forl in their ignorance and superstition, they might venture every thing in their faith in supernatural intervention. But there was no outhreak. 'The long-suffering race knew :not how to begin a revolt. They waited for a sign; but no sign wasgiven. them; and in time they settled into that stol- id, brutal state of submission. to which they had been born. The day of their liberation was not yet. Their wrongs were to be washed out 'in seas of blood of the stronger race, who were even then accumulating wrath against the day of wrath   .        ,   308       oMHERB* OF MONTGOMERY: -  .  CHAPTER XXIV. ' How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child t "- SHAKSPEARE. THE: trial of Seth Mettlar was little more than a mele form. He had no defence to make; though, with a consist- ent hypocrisy, he ,affected to be a Inuch-injured man. He had sent for his forlher counsel, Mr. Dextrous, to defend him; and that eloquent advocate, when he learned the merits of the case and the nature of the evidence, advised his client to plead guilty.. But this advice was instantly rejected by Seth; and then the accommodating lawyer prepared himself to make ihe best defence possible, and to earn the fee that he had taken care to have paid in advance. But, though there was no :doubt about the result of the trial, there was great interest taken in it; and a large num- ber of people went over to Chesterville from Montgomery to witness it. Among them went old Thomas Homer. Poor man, he was now alone in the world, except that his graceless son was left to him. His wife -never left her bed after her return from the Pivot, where, broken-hearted arid penitent, she went to report her daughter's flight, and confess her own selfishness and folly. Within a week from that time, she was laid in the graveyard of Montgomery Village. The day before the trial, Freeborn Gomery started in his old family carriage, that had stood twenty years' service, to go over to the county seat. He had gone about half the dis- tance,-when he overtook Thomas Homer walking in the same direction. "What, Mr. Homer!, is this you?" said Gornery, at the same time checking the horses.    I "Yes, squile; I felt curis about the trial; and I thought I must go over and see how it would come out; for, if that man escapes, I think I could tear his heart out with these old teeth."  -   ,;     ' "You need have no fear of that; but how is it you are J*   A FAMLY HSTORY.        309 afoot? Get; in here, and ride; and we will talk over matters as we drive along." Homer entered the carriage; and the fat, lazy old horses trotted ,on. "'Why are you on foot, Mr. Homer;?"Surely you are too old a man to 'walk all this distance, - near twenty miles." "'Oh! I have nothing left now, - no wife, no daughter, no farm, no house,-nothing, nothing but Obed; and he don't use me as I would like to be used -in my old age. I asked him to let me ride with him, and he said no;- he and Bill Jack.' man were going together: but perhaps, he said, somebody would pick me up on the road. But it don't much matter to me, squire, what becdmes of me now. I am not at all well, and I guess I shall soon be laid ajway in the graveyard, alongside of my poor wife; and, if only poor Hester was with us, I wouldn't care." Here the old man's voice became choked, and he could say no more; but, burying his face in his old bandanna handkerchief, he sobbed so piteously, that; Gomery could scarce refrain from a like demonstration. The grand jury had found three bills of indictment against : Mettlar,--for forgery, peljury, and subornation of perjury. The acute and subtle Mr. Dextrous resorted to every art and expedient known to his profession to save his client. He questioned and challenged jurors, till it seemed doubtful if a new panel would not be required in order to find twelve unprejudliced men. Then, when the jury was complete, he tried to pick flaws in the indictment; but he was overruled by the judge, and was forced to the general issue. In this way, the whole of the first day was, taken up; and on the next he began by strenuously objecting to the admission of the. affidavits of Randolph Gault, alias Joe Pumpagin, as evidence, and insisting that he should be brought into court, so that he could be cross-examined. He also ventured to intimate that hq had beert kept back or hid away because his testimony would not bear scrutiny. At this point he was sharply rebuked by the judge, who warned him that the character iof the plaintiff in this case stood too high in the community to be assailed in that court with impunity by flippant, imported hirelings. This rebuke called forth a buzz of satisfaction throughout the court-room, and evidently so well pleased the Jury, that it was clear to the crafty lawyer that neither trick, subterfuge, nor eloquence would avail. '?'  - ; -   3i0     - GOIERY OF XMONTGOMERY k. Nevertheless, he made a long, ingeious plea in defence of his client, mainly, however, to the judge, in mitigation of sentence, as he read the verdict already in the faces of the jurymen. Gomery argued his own case, or rather told his own story, as he paid no attention to -the quibbles and subtleties of Mr. Dextrous. The judge,; however, in his charge, brushed away all the. latter's legal flummery, and told the jury they were simply to decide whether or not they believed the prisoner at the, bar had been guilty of forgery, as charged in the in- dictment. The jury, without leaving their seats, gave a verdict of guilty. The judge, before pronouncing sentence, said it was the most atrocious case of villany, successful for a time, that had ever come before him, or that he hJad ever heard of. Its consequences were commensurate with its atrocity, for it had carried ruin and death in its train; and he should therefore impose the highest penalty of the law,- ten years in the penitentiary; leaving the other indictments to be tried immediately. Whenf this result was known, the-spectators generally left, well. satisfied; for home. Thomas Homer had remained till nearly all the Montgomery people lhad started to return. Gomery had told him, in coming over, to wait till he went back, And he would give him a seat in his carriage. But Gomery could not leave for a couple of days more; and Ho- mer had no wish to see the- other trials of the hated Mettlar. He therefore starte' on foot to return. But he felt sick and weak, and often stopped to rest by the wayside. It would -be dark before he could get home, at that rate; and so he hurried with the best speed he could make. Casting his eyes back, he is cheered by the sight of a horse and wagon, in which there is but a single person. "Surely now," said he, "I sliall get a ride." The carriage approaches briskly; and hle looks again, and sees it is his owna son who is diving it. It comes up to him; and, as it makes no sign of stopping, he says, "Come, you'll certainly give me a ride now." But the young man shook his head, gave'his horse a cut of the whip, and left him to plod his weary way. Ah, Thomas Homer! Long years ago I foresaw that evil days were in store for you, when you were a stout, thrifty young farmer, and allowed your aged mother to be. carried n tears to the poor-house, there to pass her few remaining   A FAMLY HSTORY.        8" years, and then to die. I knew, as well as know it now, as I -see you dragging your weary limbs for the last time home- weards, that sorrow would come to you. You grieved deeply when she died, for your conscience smote you: but unavail- ing sorrow shall not atone for sins of commission, or sins of, omission; for "as I live, saith the Lord, the wicked shall not go' unpunished."' The poor man never entered his own door again. i Sick,  weary, and crushed in spirit, he reached the house of his brother-in-law, and could go no farther. .Poor old man! His son's cruelty and ingratitude had broken a heart that had been long -bruised and bleeding. He took to his bed as soon as he entered the house, saying he was tired; but his friends saw that he was more than tired. He talked wildly and in- coherently, often calling his son's name; asking what he had v done that he should be left to perish in the street. Then he would call for Hester,' and then for his Wife. A physician was sent for; and, under the influence of the medicines ad- ministered, he was made to sleep for a couple of hours. But he was never to leave his bed. He lingered a few days, growing weaker and weaker, until at last his son was per- suaded to go and see him. At the sight of him, the old man started, and exclaimed, "Obed, Obed! you have killed your old father!" and then fell back, and expired.- The other indictments against Mettlar were disposed of at less e'xpense of time and talk than thelfirst. Though tried by different juries, the verdict in each case was the same; and the sentence abated little of its severity by reason of the long punishment previously imposed. For the crime of perjury, he was sentenced to five years' additional penal service; and, for subornation of perjury, three-years more; thus making, in the aggregate, eighteen years, which, if he lived so long, he must give to the service of the State. /                       .   312      GOiE1AY OF MONTGOMERY: CHAPTER, XXV. "Love's last fond lure was vain.",-- WORDSWORTH. THE winter season set in more than a month later than usual among the hills- of New England. But it came at length fierce and furious, Yet all was quiet in the village of Miontgomery. The ample harvests had been gathered in by the husbandmen; the cellars and granaries were well stored; the boys and girls had been provided with their warm and heavy garments that they might defy the winter; and the elder people were happy in their abundance, and in the pros- pective exemption from hard labor for the next two or three months. The village was now all harmony for the first time since the evil influence of Seth Mettlar was first felt among the people. He had had his partisans; and many neighbor- hood quarrels had grown out of his protracted contest with Gomery. But now all were united in praise of the Gomerys, and in commiseration of the fate of poor Walter. Loneg be- fore any thing was heard of Joe Pumpagin, it was announced in the papers, that after having made a full confession, anid begged forgiveness, he had, under the remorse of conscience, committed suicide. But they had, by this time, all been in- formed of the contents of Walter's letter to his parents; and no one doubted that he had been foully murdered. It is towards evening of a cold clear day in the latter part of December. A  large covered sleigh is seen to drive through the village towards the Pivot. Every one that saw it felt that it had a funereal look and air. The delicacy and re- straint that had formerly forbid people from pressing their attentions on the Gomerys sno longer obtained among them; and a dozen or more of the more influential men of the place followed the sleigh up the hill to the Pivot. The squire and his wife had anticipated the return of Joe, and did not be- lieve he would ever come back without Walter. When they saw the covered sleigh turn up to the door,: they knew what * .. 1    - A jAILY HSTORY.        813 it meant, - that Joe had returned, and bronught with him the remains of the best beloved of their children. The curtain of thel sleigh was thrown back; and the burly figure of Joe Pumpagin stepped out upon the snow,; and revealed two fe- nale figures,-- one a stout mulatto woman; 6th6 other a form enveloped in blankets and buffalo-skins, but through whichl could be discerned the emaciated features and large ? and still lustrous 'eyes of Hester Homer. A large box at the bottom of the sleigh suggested its own contents, and required no explanation. Both Gomery and his wife had steeled themselves to this trial. There was no outhreak of grief, no "scenen on the part of-either: on the contrary, Gomery tooki Hester in his arms, carried her into the house, and ) laid her gently on the parlor sofa. He looked anxiously in her face; but she did not return his look, or seem to know him. To his wife's attentions she appeared equally uncon- scious; and it was evident. her mind was gone. - She spoke to no one; and Joe said she had never spoken since the first day that they were out at sea. He briefy recounted his ex- perience since he left them, first to the squire, his wife, and Dr. Toler, and afterwards to the assembled neighbors. The most of them are already known. But of the remainder it needs only to be said, that when fairly out to sea, finding that Hester would not leave the sight of the rude coffin that lay on the deck, he caused it to be opened, hoping that the sight of the body would have the effect to recall her reason. She looked at the face, that was calm and placid in death, for about half an hour; and then, with the words, "I am com- ing," turned away, and looked no more upon it. They were the last words she had ever spoken. VOL. II.    27       i   314 ,     G031ERY OF MONTGOMERY. CHAPTER XXVI "All, all are gone, - the old familiar faces." - CHARLES LAMB. THE spot where David Gault had been buried more than threescore years before the time to which we have now arrived was upon a small knoll- of about half an acre-in ex- tent, and very near to the "WWeeping Angels." The knoll b had been enclosed by Robert Gomery soon after he settled upon the hill. Afterwards, at the suggestion of Joe Puim- pagin, a substantial stone wall was built around it by his son Freeborn, after he had been admitted into Joe's confidence, and knew the story of his life. It was on this spot that Walter Gomery was buried, on the last day of the year. Hester remained at the Pivot during the winter; but noth- ing could recall the demarted mind. She never spoke, never laughed, never wept. She was as dead to all around her. As the'spring, came on, she grew paler and weaker; and on the last day of May, just five months after Walter had been consigned to his rest, Hester-- for it was thought ; profanation to coxnect the name of him who had been her husband with hers-  was laid beside him. The labors of JoePtlmpagwin .are now at an end; and  ' people who ha-ve-known him long are astonished to find what an old man he .appears to be. The stern will and fixed purpose have kept him strong and vigorous to act. Now his work is done, and age shows itself: in haggard lines.; His sister, Lady Beresford, waits till she sees the laws of nature and justice vindicated, so far as possiblb in this world, and then returns to England to spend her latter ' days with her childrlen st For a year or two, Joe continued to preside occasionally at the Exchange, and make the favorite--flip. But most of his earlier companions in his bacchanalian revels had surrendered to a god stronger than Bacchus, and of whomll the latter is said to be prime minister. Little Diller'had   A FAMLY HSTORY.        315- dried up,? and been whiffed out, but not till he had seen Freeborn Golnery established in his righltfill possession, and. ,had had the pleasure of hearing Seth Mettlar's sentence to the penitentiary pronounced. Tench Wales had started on' his long journey even before the cloud over, the house of Gomery had made its appearance. Obededom Homer had become a drunken, penniless sot, and was a town-charge. Joe lived in the old house on the hill, though he spent the most of his days at the Pivot.  Gomery and his wife scarcely ever left home; and, notwithstanding the great sor- row they had passed through, they continued to exhibit a calm cheerfulness, and a cordial welcome to neighbors and other friends. The memory of the dead Walter is to them ., more than all else of their earthly possessions and earthly joys. Joe Pumpagin lived some five years after his work was done. He died gently, and with a quotation from Shakspeare in his mouth. He had been long failing, and knew that his end was near. Gomery had come up, as he did every day, to spenid a couple of hours with htim; and, as he sat down by his bed, he asked him how he -was. "Ask for me to-morrow," replied Joe, " and, as Mercutio says, 'you will find me a grave man. I am peppered for this world, and mustered for the next.' That's not Shakspeare; though, of course, Shak- speare hadn't all the wit in the world." "You alre not so far gone as that, I hope," said Gomery.' "Ay, that's past prating for. You shall know when I am going: when you see ime fumble with the sheets like this, and a' babble of green fields, you may know, like Dame Quickly, there is but one way; and then you may feel my feet and hands, and you will find them cold as any stone, cold as any s-t-o-n-e." The last breath passed from his body with this last word         .    I Gomery and his wife lived several years longer. Joe Pumpagin left a large property, the fruits of his Western in- vestments, all of which fell to Gomery; and at his decease it swent to-his children, who already had more than they knew what to do with.  Joe was buried on the knoll, between Walter and Hester on one side, and his father and mother on the other. There are three graves within a stone's-throw of the Arch Fountain. At the head of each is a white marble slab. On L -            '   , 816      GOOEY OF MONTGOMERY, one of them is engraved the name of Joe Pumpagin; on the next, that of Walter Gomery; and oni the third, the one word, "4 Hester." More than that there is neither letter nor in{- scription. But, to the .people of Montgomery, the names alone suggest the whole story of suffering and sacrifice; and many tears have fallen on the turf that rests -above the dead. But the angels have ceased to weep.  ?      Press of Geo. C. Rand & Avery, 3 Cornhill,    
         
       
   
