
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. The Thrilling and Extraordinary Adventures of Charles L. Marshall and his lost bride, Cornelia Dunnington .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8058
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The thrilling and extraordinary adventures of Charles L. Marshall and his lost bride, Cornelia Dunnington 
            
                 THRILLING AND EXTRAORDINARY ADVENTURES OF  CHARLES L. MARSHALL AND HIS LOST BRIDE,  CORNELIA DUNNINGTON, whbo were separated from Father. The whole and at the same time verifying the old adage Of Faint heart ne'er won fair lady yet:"  PHILADELPHIA: PUBLISHED BY BaRCLsAY & CO., 602 ARCH ST., PHLA.   Entered according, to Act of Congress, in the year 186G, by -  B Ai. R (I L- A Y  a I the Cler's Ofe of t- Distrit Conrt of the United Sts, i and for     ADVENTURES OF CHARLES L. MARSHALL, AND HIS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON. My history affords , frightful example of the vicissitudes of for tune. My father, woe was more distinguished by his virtue and superior attainments than by his ealth, enjoyed that consideration wich is always due to personal merit. He cave to the edueation of my two sisters -the attention of a tender father; but above all n occupied himself with iine, with the zeal of an old gentleman jealous of the honor of his name. I learned horsemanship, gymnastics and sword exercise, at a school in Philadelphia, where these branches of a gentleman s educa- tion were taught.; At this school I made the acquaintance of a young man, named Percy Elmore, who distinguished himself among the scholars by the most amiable qualities. To the charms of a face at the same time handsome and noble, he joined a cultivated mind. The uncommon address which he displayed in our games, the modesty with which he strove to conceal his own and to exalt the merits of his companions; the urbanity of his manners, the sereneness of- his temper, fixed the attention, commanded the esteem, and rendered him dear to that brilliant circle of youth who shared our labors and our pastime. To say that it ^as a resemblance of clhracter that brought about a- friendship between young Elmore and myself, would be praising myself very much; but however that may hlave been, it is certain that eve soon became very intimate. How happy is that stage of existence--but oh! how swiftly does it pass away-when we are yet ignorant both of lthe ambition which sacrifices everything to the pursuit of fortune and of glory, and of that love which absorbs all our faculties, and centres them upon one only, object; that are of innocent pleasures and of confiding cre dulity, when the heart, yet new, follows freely the impulses of id   "     ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSIAT Y, rising sensibility, and gives itself without division to the object of its disinterested affection, Then friendship is not merely a name. The confidant of all the secrets of Mr. Elmore, I concealed on my part nothing from him; his counsels ruled my conduct, mine infu- enced his, and thus our school days had no pleasures which were not divided, no cares which were not lightened by that pleasing reciproci- ty of feeling. With what grief I saw the fatal moment arrive when young Elmore, forced by paternal orders to quit Philadelphia, bade mne farewell! We -promised to preserve through all timethat strong attachment which had been the happiness of our youth, and I boldly swore that the passions of a more advanced age should never adlter my feelings.- What a void was left in my heart by the absence of my friend! At first it seemed to me that nothing could remunerate me for his loss. The tenderness of a father, the affection of my sisters, when I, too, returned to my native town, but slightly consoled me. Per- ceiving that there was no other way to divert my mind from its grief than to occupy it with some useful labor, I learned the French language, and applied myself earnestly to the study of the politics of the country and the law. Several years were employed in these studies, until at length they occupied me -entirely. Percy Elmore wrote to me often, but received in return short and dull answers our correspondence languished more and more, until at length love triumphed over friendship.  My father had been for a long time an intimate friend of Captain Dunnin ton, a  gentleman of great wealth, renowned in our neigh- borhood for his austerity of manner, and for the inflexibility of his attachment to the political principles he espoused. Mr. Dunnington might well be called a brave manias a politician, for he had signa- lized himself by freely expending his money in more than one campaign. Like those ancient heroes of whom we read, Captain Dunnington would have sacrificed all his -wealth to the prosperity and success of his party, he would have shed the last drop of his blood in defence of the platform of his principles; he would even have sacrificed his only daughter-his dear Cornelia. Cornelia! how beautiful she was! how much I loved her ' her lear name is ever upon my lips-her adored image in my heart  when I had seen her, Ithenceforth saw nothinghut her. Iabandon ed my-studies, my friendship was entirely forgotten, I consecrated all my moments to Cornelia. It was impossible that my father or rs should long remnain ignorant of my attachment; but they spoke   AND HS LOST BRIDE CORNELIA DUNtINGlTON.    15 not of it, and therefore I supposed approved it. I accordingly en- joyed without inquietude my new and blissful emotion. I contrived to see her almost every day, either at her own home or at that of my sisters, whom she loved very much. Thus two years passed away, during which time I paid no particular'attention to political matters.       * At length Captain Dunnington called me aside one day, and said to me: "Your father and myself, Charles, have hitherto founded great hopes upon you, which your conduct at first seemed to justify; for 4 we saw you during a long time employ yourself in labors as honora- ble as they are useful. Now"- He saw that I was abeut to interrupt him and prevented me. "What would you say to me? Do you suppose that you can tell mne anything of which I am ignorant? Is it necessary for me to be every day a witness of your transports to know how much Cor- nelia merits to be loved? It is because I know as well as you what she deserves, that you shall never obtain her except by meriting her. Young man, know that 'it is not enough that weaknesses are legitimate to make them excusable. Those of a good citizen Fought all to turn to the profit of his country; for even love itself would be, like the viler passions, contemptible and dangerous, if it did not offer to generous hearts one motive the more to excite them to honor. Listen: the strength of our party in this Congressional District is failing; and I wish to be its candidate for Congress. This has awakened the ambition of my personal opponents, and they are preparing themselves, without doubt, to sow dissension among, us; they design, by forcing the suffrages of - the people, to give us a nomination of their choice. Already a number of active young men have started out canvassing votes for me; go at once to the city-this very day-and join yourself to that patriotic band which I have had secretly organized there; show yourself, by your actions during the campaign, to be worthy of my daughter. Here is a letter of instructions. Follow them!"    -  I took the letter and did not hesitate a moment. My father ap- proved my decision-he belonging to the same party-but it was with reluctance that he consented to my precipitate departure that day. Captain Dunnington was present when I bade Cornelia farewell. It was a sad, moving scene, for she had read so much about the dangers attendant upon' an election campaign in a city which con- tained its secret bands of organized politicians, that she greatly feared for my safety. She wept freely.   ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSBBHAL.      17 Ad Dry your tears, child, he said to her 'toically, or Keep them until after you are wedded. It is not fitting for my daughter to weep over a brief separation from her lover." Cornelia turned pale, sighed, glanced blushingly at her father and assured me with a trembling voice, that' her prayers should hasten my return, and that her happiness was in my hands. Thus encouraged, what danger could appal me I departed and attached myself to one of the political clubs of the city; but noth- ing occurred in the course of that campaign for nominating a can- didate for Congress worthy to be recorded, except that by general consent, Captain Dunnington was laid aside in order to give room for a new aspirant, with the distinct understanding, however, that the former should receive-the nomination for Governor by the Con- vention for selecting the candidate for that office, which would'eet in a few months hence. I returned home full of impatience and joy, not doubting but that I might immediately claim the hand of Cornelia. Horrible news awaited me. I had'no longer a father, for I learned that he had died four days previously of ppoplexy!  He was already buried! Thus I  had not even the sad consolation of receiving the last blessing of the most tender of parents. I could only go tohia tomb, which I watered with my tears. On returning from the grave-yard I  met Captain Dunnington, who seemed but little moved at my grief. "It is not with useless tears," said he to me, "that the I memory of a  father, like yours, should be honored. Our party mourns in him a hero-citizen, who would have usofullyserved it in the ap- proaching crisis. He was formerly a member of Assembly from this district, and doubtless-would have been selected as a delegate to the Gubernatorial Convention; and on the choice of the. delegate to that body from this district depends my nomination. Of all the rights, your father has transmitted to you that of representing this district in the forthcoming convention, if you are selected, is with- out doubt, the most important. It is in such positions that he ought tolive again in you. If you are appointed as the delegate, which I  doubt not you will be, you will have to exhibit a courage far grieater than that which onsists only in braving death upon the battle field. The valor 'of the soldier is only a common virtue but they are no ordinary men who, preserving a tranquil courage n   the greatest emergencies of State, discover the projects of pow ryrful conspirators, defeat dangerous plots, affront 'hardy factions   18      AD8AjSNTUReS OF CHARLES MARSIALI, who', ahays firm, incorruftible and just, give their' suffrages to him only whom they deem most worthy; who consider nothing but the welfare of their country ; whom neither gold nor golden promises can seduce; whom prayers cannot move nor menaces alarm. These arevirtues which distinguished'your father. This is the truly pre- cious meritage you ought to receive from him.  The day when a candidate'for the next Governor is nominated,' will be the certain epoch in which will be manifested the pretensions of several citizens, who are more occupied with their personal in- terests than watchful of the prosperity of their country, and their party, and of the pernicious designs of our opponents, whose policy would destroy the strength of our land by dividing it. Charles, I much deceive myself, or the time is at hand, which will forever fix the destiny of my future political life. My enemies are conspmiring my political ruin. They have prepared, in secret conclave, a plan to again thwart my ambition; wThich, if I can help it, they shall never consummate. I wish you to second my efforts. I cannot now give you my daughter, because I consider the organization of our party is in danger. But I promise you that whenfyoue bring me the news that I hae receiveqd the nomination for Governor, you ishall have' her."  Cap etain Dunnington w as a monomaniac in politics and, as I knew his nature I listened to him calmly.' I was well aware I should have many important duties to perform in order to secures him the nomination, (for he was not very popular r ith the younger members of the party to which he belonged,) but I undertook them the more- freely because they would, in some degree, divert my mind from its harrowing grief caused by my father's demise. I avow it with shame, that the sadness and compassionate grief of my sisters was banished by tMe more reserved but not the less valued caresses of Cornelia. I saw that she was affected at my irreparable loss, and as much afflicted as myself at the cruel events which deferred our marriage. My grief, thus shared, became sensibly lessened. In the meantime the convention was called. I had been appointed a delegate, and made my' way to the county town. The day on which it was to open, and at the moment I was about to repair to the court-house wherein it was held, an unknown person presented himself in my room at the hotel, and requested to see me privately. When the servant who conducted him to my apartment retired, the stranger threw himself. into my arms- and embraced me. It was Percy Elinore! 'The four years which had ragsed since our separia-   -     A      -- AND HS LOST RIDBE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.   19 tion, had not changed him so much but that I was able to recognize im, and I showed the surprise and joy which his unexpected Presence. gave me. '(You will , t ber? lm; et rmore surprised," he said,- when you know the cause of 7,y being here. I have this moment arrived, and am about gpincg to the convention. Is it-too much to presume upon your friendship to count upon your vote?" s Upon my vote? And for whom?" said I. For me, my. friend-!" retorted he, smiling. "saw my astonishment, and continued      . "Yes, for me.  There is not time to relate to you what happy rmolution n my fortune permits me to nourish such high hos let t suffice for you to know that, ast least, my ambition s justified by the greatest -numbTe  of suffrages, and that, in vain, two feeble rivals prepareto dispute with'me the nominat;on for Governor to which I now aspire t "ho arshal," he continued, s if you were not my friend or if  esteemed you less, perhaps I  would attempt to szzle YOU 'ith promises; perhaps I would show you what favors await you in case dof Ily clectior, what honorable distinctions I would besto.  ,But bot     Wish to seduce you, I nly want to persue  ou to vote Ifor attos       but        he cotnud It matters beut little wat language my friend used in his en spavolrs to gan myvote let ome merey mnention that his reasons wecre so Cogent that I voted for him when the convention met' having seeh that therewas no earthly chance for Catan Dunni laton  to receive the nomination. -After the adjournment of the body, and withl ot seeign Mr. Duninaton, I  returned home, and hastened to his house. He was walting to and frio with rapid pace in the aprt-w ment of his daughter, to which a servant conducted me. Oornena who  was in the room, seeme an w much s"italted a himself.  "Behold V! he said to heir ,when he saw me appear,  lBelold tho man whom I   esteemed and you loved, and who has sacificed ug both to his friendship for another!" I Mas about to (answer -to exculpate myself, but he continued- "You have been intimate from childhood with Percy Elmore  who is n  ow the ca'ndidate of our party for Governor of the State supported by a  powerful faction of' my opponents. -You,"ew it You klne't' his designs You voted for hinm and deceived me But think not that a man can deceive mo with impunity i" I begged him to hear me. and while he constrained himself to aa   AND HS lSTI BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.   21 ZZIAD;UIIIS     t  u  U LnS BRSSl     hI angry silence, I explained to' hi" how Mr. Elmore had suddenly "poI meand informed. ie of his brilliant prospects for- the nomination, andeow I had only voted for him after seeing there was no chan:^  ^or my own candidate# Corneli 0a ppeared delighled at inTustification, but her father interrupted me- "Thinkr not that I am to be deceived, like a credulous woman!" - said he; "1 but proceed."  I then gave him a brief -account of all that took place between Mjr. lSe s ndmyself. Ihad scarce concluded, when he approached will have you dragged from it by my servants d An .affront so cruel- ineensed me beyond measue, and in the transport of ,my wrath I drew a revolver from my pocket. Quicker than lightnin Captain Dunninr ton dre one also. But his trembling daughter threw herself between us. "Charles!" she said, " what would you do . At the sound of that dear voice I regained my reason; but I felt that in another instant Cornelia wrs likely to he taken from me forever. She left me to throw herself into the arms Of her father. Thatlcruelman sawmy bitter grief and strove to augment it. fahe That cruel ma sa "Go! Traitor, go!" said he, "you have seen her for the last I returned home in despir. The odious epithets which he had heaped upon me recurred without cessation to. my thoughts. I coula'ndt imagine how I could betray one friend so deeply bybene- fitin another, who would have succeeded to the position independent of my -ssistance, whilst the other, with all Mty aid, stood no chance f *ol er Inr 't i passed the entire night in that uncertainty ; and whteerfo i.    asse te n tons determined to' effect some- sort of a reconciliations I found neither him nor his daughter. One of the men cpmloyed on the alntation informed me that the Captain had departed the previous Pevening with Cornelia. I inquired whether themn hald gone. teIam ignoranf' of that, rpi te man; 11all I can t(,- %, * that ou had scarcely gone from here yesterday evening, when  noise was 'heard in the apartment of his daughter. Being near the chamber door atthe time, I ventured to listen. Miss C-rnelia, wept, whilst ier-'father, furious withswrath, swore; and Iheard him say, She whI able to love iirator is able to be one Ungrateful girl, I hal place you in a safe retreat, where you will hereafter be shielded frcm seduction!"   - S   ADVENTURES OP CHARLES MARSHALL. How great now was my misery! I went home and mounted a hlors e, determined to search the country over until I found her. While in this frame of mind, and undecided what course to take, in order to-learn the whereabouts of my betrothed, I received a letter from Galveston, Texas, in which it was stated that I would find it to mi advantage to come to that city, as those I sought were then there. I immediately set out for Galveston, and after a Jour- ney of five -weeks .reached my destination. I could find no one, however, who had seen or heard tell of them. I concluded I was thus led astray and duped by Captain Dunnington's cunning, in or- der-that I might be cured of any future attempt at finding his daughter I I was about. returning, and had just settled my bill at the hotel,- when, on going to the reading room, I was .accosted by a rather rakish-looking person, who told me that, for a hundred dollar- in cash, he would put me in possession of the lady in whom I appeared to be so much interested. Surprised at the fellow's unex- pected appearance as well as curious proposition, I questioned hm as to the lady s name . To my astonishment he mentioned it and said -she was imprisoned in a small farm house about nine miles distant To this place, towards evening, he conducted me, after I had paid him his price. However, instead of finding her I  so anxiously sought, the moment I entered the door of the hut, (for it was nothing else,) I was roughly seized by a couple of branny fel- lows, who commenced robbing me of everything I possessed. On pain of being instantly shot, I gave up my watch, breastpin and money without making any show of resistance. One of them then took possession of my coat, placing on me his ragged one for a substitute. After noting me for a love sickfool, the pair of villains together with my rascaliy conductor, started off in high -glee with three cheers for Captain Dunnington,  Prior to their leaving me I was bound hand and foot, and tightly fastened with my back to the wall. I  struggled in vain to undo the cords, that confined me by the wrists, and was about giving up in despair, when to my horror and astonishment, I found the villains had fired the cabin on the outside! In a  few minutes the clapboard roof was in a blaze, and the room I   was in became instantly filled with smoke! Soon the flames were crackling over my head, and large pieces of the blazing roof were falling upon me.  The idea of being burnt alive was shocking and I  renewed my exertions to free myself from my bonds. The fire was becoming hotter Ai4 hotter, and I was on the point of being roasted alive, when fortunately a piece of burning board fell and lodged directly on my two wrists which were tied to-   AND HS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.   25 gether! The cuffs of the old coat were 'quickly on fire, as was also the rope which confined me. The pain was excruciating, but I suffJred the awful torment until the rope burnt sufficiently to allow me to break it, which I did by a superhuman effort. The moment my wrists were free I began untying the cord which bound me to the wall, scarcely having done which, the entire room was in a blaze! I darted out the door with all speed, and itwas lucky Idid for at that moment the roof fell in with a terrible crash.  I was now in a miserable plight, and regretted having allowed myself to be decoyed into so foul a snare. But there was no help for it. So I wended my way back to Galveston, resolved on the next day to wreak my vengeance on the foul villains who had thus misused me; and I further determined that in case I met Captain Dunnington he should answer to me personally for the vile acts of his hired emmissaries. It was midnight when I reached Galveston, and the streets were deserted. I made my way to the hotel, where my appearance excited the sympathy of the landlord and several of the guests who had not yet retired. All were loud in their condemnation of the villain- ous outrage which had been perpetrated upon me, and a company was made up to go in search of the authors of the deed the next morning. My wrists were but slightly injured by the fire, and I agreed to accompany the party who one and all made up their minds to hang the rascals without mercy should we catch them. At seven in the morning the body of mounted men, who were to accompany, were all in readiness, and we made directly for the cabin to which I had been decoyed. We found a mass of smouldering embers. A division of the force was then agreed upon, somegoing north and the others west. - The party which I accompanied soon came upon the trail of the desparadoes, who had taken a short cut through a freshy ploughed field. After half an hours' hard riding we sudden- ly came in view of them, as they were sitting round a liquor bottle, busily engaged in a game of cards. We rode in upon them with a shout and in a few minutes had them prisoners. They prayed us mercy, but it was not granted. One of them earnestly entreated - me to spare him, and in answer to my question as to what part Captain Dunnington had taken in the matter, he replied that that gentleman had only intimated to them that he wished me to be laughed at, not abused; but that the sight of the watch and the  money I was supposed to be the possessor of,was the sole incentive which led them to rob and bind me; and that in order to cover the crime of the robbery they had set the hut on fire. This, villain I   2s .dADVENTURES OP CHARLES, M1ARSrALT. woild haie spared, but the gentlemen who, accompanied me insisted on serving them all alike. We now formed ourselves into a court, tried them, and found them guilty of robbery and an attempt to murder. They were sentenced to be hanged to the nearest tree, allowing them half an hour to pray. But one of them, however, availed himself of the benefits of prayer, while the other two heaped upon us all manner of imprecations. The, tilne allowed being up, we commenced hanging them. lThis was quickly gone through with, and a hole being scraped out of the soft e-arth with some pointed sticks, we huddled them together and covered them over with dirt and leaves. We then returned to Galveston, from whence, after remaining a a few days longer, I took my departure for home. Having lost eight weeks in my painful search I now resolved to seek for her in the various cities., After much inquiry in New York, I came upon a person wuho had seen Captain Dunnington the day before. I sent this party to seek out the place where he was stopping, if possible, and bring me word. I instructed him when he once saw the Captain, not to lose sight of him, but to follow him wherever he went. In twodays my agent returned and apprised me that he had observed the Captain take a carriage and ride in the direction of the Jersey City Ferry, whither he followed him.  The river was crossed, with my spy on the same boat with the Captain, and when the slip was reached both parties started on foot. Night was fast approaching, yet the Captain walked briskly -on up the' street and out of the town, still followed by my agent. The sun sunk below the earth, and the- stars refused to shine, but the pedestrian walked on,  Several hours passed, and there was as yet no si m that the Captain's journey was concluded. By this time he wis aware that he was watched.  At length Ite stopped to rest himself and cast a glance towards the man who was following him. My agent secreted himself behind some old ruins, to screen himself from observation.  Presently the Captain rushed up and seized him' jad vWith a pistol in his hand, forced him to confess who it was that O8iA  on his prying expedition. '"I wh send you back to -the traitor a " said he, addressing my St,'aat, "atell him for me that he shall not escape my just ven- gvmanc!"  With the'se words he dismissed him end bade him take Tkaiefte* gsim  gave me great anxiety, though the threats of Dun. Ib-gSON ahLa-m-A me far less for myself than for Cornelia, who wsSSHSS i is r hs power. I knew that he wVas able in his -wroth to eiremse999999 th greatest severity towards her, notwrithstanding s he wap   AND HS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.    27 his only child, and motherless, and I exposed mypelf to every peril r to discover his retreat and her prison. 'S endin^^^^^o ben After spending three months in vain searches, despairing  abe o in m CO  1Be for a time I gave myself up to grief.  able to find mylost 6e, ^   ^J     ^   n  agru "on y 'return home, when an extraordinary and agru enconterforced me to take a very different -course. I started for my residence on horseback, preferring Intmd ftrvligt - the- more modern and swift railroad car. On the evening of a beautiful day) in October, I was leisurely walking my animal .down the urnike hic crosesthe Blue Mountains between the, town,% of tmmittsburg, Mid.) and Waynesboroug ,Pa,  unately I was armedB ws attackredby four men) evidtently robbrs Fortuaeyw rmd with a, revolver. Two of the villains, seized the reins of my horse's, bridle, whilst the other two attempted to drag me from his back. I hstated not an instant, but fir'd at one of the t o who were trving -to unhorse me. Hofell with a scream of agony, while, the others took to their heels throu,,Ythe thick srbeyta  oee   h mountain side, four balls- from my revolver following them. I, dis- mounted, and was about putting another bullet into the wounded robber, when he 'beesed of - me, in at faint voice, to listen to what he had to say. He then spoke as follows: s brave a man as you are ought-to be generous. I ask 6-0 you my life. Friend, instead of killing me, bind up this dreadful wound in my arm.  He craved, quarter in so piteous a manner, that I assisted him to his feet. I then took from my pocket a handkerchief and bandaged his arm. Whilst doing this, I observed a crowd of ten or twelve men hastily descending the side of the mountain on which we were standing.' A horrid presentiment of instant death came over me, -for my pistol then contained but a single cligge. I The robber be- side me, noticing my fear and algitation, s8Jd in a calm voice:-- "Fear noth'ina yung man! I am the leader of those men and they will not harm you when they see that I am alive  By a signal of his hand he checked the approach of the band, who were hastening towardss. He then spoke again:- i, Fnend, the day is now departing, and I adviseyou not to travel farther down this mountain to-night. Some of mymen areontheir L -ts, and as I cannot see them until to-morrow, I will not be re-, !Senible for your safety. Below here you will find a pathway that leadS-to a rude, though striongly built house, belonging to a rich old , who, rillain as he is, once did me i grevious injury. Go you S ththous. and ask nhim to give 7^  w;9n  for the n**'llt   o28     j DVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHALL. tell him you were beset by the robbers, and that you had wounded their leader. He-must knomw me, because I have already caused him some unhappy days. He robbed' me of my patrimony when I was an infant, and made me what I am. Do not leave there in less than three days,'if he will allow you to stay, and make your visit last no longer than eight." The advice of the- robber-chief, with his dozen assassins but a hundred yards from me, was of course not to be refused ; therefore I quickly mounted my horse, and pursued the path which struck -off from the main road, a few rods farther down the mountain. It led me down into a deep and rugged ravine, through which it ran for several miles. At length I came to what appeared to have once been an old stone castle, with a high tower still standing. There was a ditch surrounding the building, over which led a drawhridge There was, however, no water-in the ditch. Jumping from my. horse, I fastened him to a tree; going to the gate I rapped loudly. An extremely ugly negro. answered my summons, and demanded my name. - I  answered that my name was Dunnington, for I had -travelled under this cognomen the better to mislead the father of Cornelia, should he hear of any one making inquiry after his daugh- ter. Presently fwas admitted. The negro informed me that the master was away and would not return until the morrow. Hehowever wel- comed me. A  frugal repast was spread, of which I partook, and at an early hour I retired to bed, in a room on- the ground floor. I soon fell asleep, and did -not awaken until daybreak. On trying to pass out I found the door locked on the outside, so that I could not open it, and I made my, exit from the room through a window into a  garden, beautifully and tastefully laid out. After walking about a  few minutes I seated myself on$ stone bench at the foot of the tower, and occupied myself in observing its singular architecture. While thus absorbed in thought, a piece of slate the dropped upon me apparently from the roof of the old building; and, to avoid a similar accident, I removed to the opposite end of the bench. A few minutes afterwards a second piece of slate fell near me. The accident seemed surprising; I arose alarmed; I examined the tower attentively, and perceived at the distance of twenty-five or thirty feet from the top a window. I picked up the tiles that hd been cast down, and on the first I deciphered these words scratched with a  pin: -- "  Charles! Is it you? You still live!" On the second was written: "Oh, deliver me-save Cornelia!"   ALD HS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON.    29 It is impossible for any one to imagine what Averse sentiments agitated me at that moment. My astolishment, my grief, my em4 btrrassment, were inexpressible. I examined the prison of Cornelia, and sought how I should be able to rescue her from it. She threw down another piece of slate, on which I read: "At midnight bring me paper, ink and pen, and attach them to a string you will find dangling from the window. To-morrow, after the sun rises, look for a letter in the garden. Depart now. tesu rseslok  I returned to my room through the -window, and reclosed the blinds. How could I penetrate into the tower, and how could I perform this in the short space of three days, the time at which I wished to take my departure? These thoughts occupied my mind greatly, and it was horrible to contemplate that I might not be able to surmount the obstacles that lay in the way of rescuin ornelia from the prison in which she was confined. -But for what as fhe in that frightful prison? The letter which she promised me would doubtless iniform me, and it became necessary to procure the writing materials eye the return of the master of the house, who, I was well convinced, was some particular friend, perhaps a relative? of Captain Dunnin gton's. Breakfast was served me by the negro, who had likewise carefully, attended to the wants of my horse. From him also I procured the writing materials. I then strolled around the place and through the garden until noon, when I was apprised Mr. Hubbard, the owner of the place, had arrived. I presented ysL to him with all the assurance I couldicommand- under the circum- stances. He was a man about fifty years of age, of rough and epulsive manners He asked me who I was. I informed him, as I had previously done the negro,- My uncle, Captain Dunningtop, said Is has given me a secret -mission for you, but in order to explain that mission I must be alone with you. On my way hither I was attacked by a gang, o out- laws, the leader of which I wounded severely with- ball from my pistol. With a move of his hand, the negro, (who was present when I made up to Mr. Hubbard), left the apartment. Captain Dunnington sent me-1 began. "I see it very well-that he sent you," answer3d Hubbarl To ask-stammered Is "What?" he inquired. I took courage. To ask news of his daughter, continued I., "News of his daughter!' answered he.   r" - ar so      AbDVEXTtRY B-OV CJARLES MABRSATT., "Mr. D-unnington said it?'-Yes, Captain Dunnington said his daughter, Cornelia, was here. I  saw Hubbard tuiirn pale. He looked at me a long time in silence. - You astonish me!" said he at length. s Captain Dunnington must have been- very imprudent to have trusted "you with a secret of so great importance." Not more than you would do, sir, replied I. Have you no confi- dant? We would be a very unfortunate set of people if we could place no confidanie in any one. Captain Dunnington bade me say to you that young Marshall, the traitor, to whom his daughter was engaged, has already traveledi over a great part of the contr in search of her, and that there is a probability he will visit this seo- I tion- "If he dares to come here," said Hubbardj suddenly, -"I will give him a lodging he will occupy for a long time. Do you know this young Marshall?" -1 have often seen him at my uncie's, I answered. "He is said to be a handsome man," continued he. He is well formed and about my height, I believe, replied I care- lesly.  "-'He is an insolant fellow;" remarked Hubbard, ' and if ever he fal. into my hands, he'll rue it! It is a long time since Dulnning- ton wrote to me. Where is he?" I have particular instructions xfrom him  not to mention his whereabouts-all I dare say to you is that he is near and will see you soon. He is concealing his retreat for sotme purpose unknown to mni probably not wishing young Marshall to know he is still in the country; I answered. l Hubbard seemed greatly astonished; I thought even I saw signs of fear he seemed much embarrassed. s Do you say Dunnington will be here soon?' asked he. Yes, returned 1; in a couple, of weeks at farthest. He looked again at me and suddenly affected as much indifference as he had before shown of embarrassment, said:   & "Return to your uncle. I am sorry I have nothing but bad news to send him. Tell him that Cornelia is-not here t" I was in turn greatly surprised. What? said I, Cornelia- "Is not here, I tell you," answered he. "To oblige Dunnington whom Hesteem, I undertook with repugnance, the care of his daugh- ter. No person excepting myself, and the negro, Joe, knew ihe tas here. I brought her here at night, and placed her in a room   SA AV iris LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA DUXNI1qOTON- ,HU IMLOST  ^  ^ LU^     . Theoldtower    car   her food and waite upn er MySelf athomet ol tower good Icareroi t xibtte- last  bubt fu Thes wil besadtidngs to heryp uncenir ateghsai US About a month since rI te d to b I  certain Uit i, sha hernot low 2hleescaped I don't      ou daubt-7initiS Bh he, not. o Ae    oJ ^t^:. She has, without doubt, oInd have one favortha11 if the robbers, who infech i+ te, robberot cnapht her on othe to. lea her for to reconcild *a v  no  .,e    ' e 7  f o  n w , n t h My astonishment was e--   re wthwatHubrdsad what I had read on the "til t wherh I was, odgtingI to. There was some mystery about thew o lk o th gaen. -fathom, yet I took d are not to    le-ngth said L. These Will be sad tidings to my uncle, Sirt eot "These yoa remainten, sai he; but I  must el i aten th s"hWithout doubt," he replied, mut le at hd ifte t caiull'"Y ou wil find ve and ubbrd, sridm in h i thi n the I   ^^ have on avrtoak      three da  ;waser ctaionow tolie not to leave he-re for to do &9 I noat Atin lg t he I t ghut where are your lodgings i t &djoiling rDion where the window looks t went tohe kiten9 ee I fohanswe rem, d te  ad hi   must fasten the "There you can remain) then saia   if he attacked shutters 1wei, for the rwhbers musthe close at hand as you  shutters igN   lav  e and enjoy yourself as wella o my asn Pou hil-im. One and refreshments anotherutiheba q you mys e lf n g t . I r d the ki fn , tc  k ie. can. im ous tooo Cornelia, but how to do it I knew infre me tioius now to w a a grand I c  h h ,t. Atolength I thought of the ngr, and t hate ho  be not A et le see t wa-eryd    ndIston the ktchen ut into execution served ir. I wrot hr w  aee inchnt Ihvi tod him   nd t  asked him to be my companion inth bed  him.    assfolloed another hrtil hai e te eame hte nooy Asi te r aOltteeca cha (  o. pew fcin altho Itol er to write ng thm e drunken man ter exn ln thoat I was perfe tlY sober, Atlength -.L   the tow r, A rde' wit hi t hi romwhich he had said was in tetwr ue bed, a tathle and a chair, were the only I   c te aruliu s i  he room hfter a little social chat7 (for he was qui d for- TOOM  After a littl  ld old rascal, who ha fr informed me -that his master was a gran mdystoen egres nd sold theM7 and that he had robbed a aids ldy f al hr popeyey This sa'd, he soon rolle o i widow lady ofall her propet "ranaly dark,. and I sat down at the bed a n dwie tom ergrI wrote her several pages, in whic a Ivincdicateclmy conduct in the conven ion i and I swore h m -Yinrhe a  tilo hems ene    n rospectful ch dcer. I tld er o -el C14 1 f1 , most  t slr9 ender  ion, a d    dDWNTOR(B F OCEURLES MARSHAL" ClU^ T"  B myself to eve? dnger^ to put  end to her hornl. When this letter asL closed I gave Mgefu otema an reectons. During the two hoursthe - n lptIpttomsl ma, ^  hundred qu tuonst 8    e  T lept Put t mye Sile :or roe they pbced o n i   - Cornelia who threw minciles, tor awre tcly 'placed - the ledge of' her window a month sincea n-rd a-re only n- W blown -down       a tmo?"Anthtrn Va ^ t llt     d    ^   tlwm   "* After tryin in a to'sIve this and similrtr -queries which thrust, thesls  pon nr mind, my drunken. com anion, awoke. It   and he hurried me to the kitcheni Then I was show to M room and the door cloed. IlaY uponthe    T" 8I10T to ^  "" ta I te^ . dock .teittX  T^ "'a ^T ^ ^'011611116"..' - Ithnsot fte blinds, bat to a-            a th1 n "'"*ttempted to open the lins, bt O my, utter ast h-ishinent an irO bar was placed aeos thenifrom the ouXtsidelill1 w0         l tedfBIont!"  tried the door, but it, too, w * fitsten                      I too  wasout This, saidr aloud to myself, -will insure By death * Yes' without doubt, said80ne olne. ^       , ..itdoes Q1ur yourdeath                  't doe ItWAsHubbard!   e entered. TraCrrit-or 1"said he, darting at -me a loo- ffr-LIko e v e ry th             f'0  o f u ry j ti  everthin! I now ihoyou are atnd what you have been doig Give me that -letter' you haVe, writtenp or by t e inmmortal' he Ing, I will Pistol                     aven te po! The I'etter was ]Ying on the bed, oehrwt heppr e    n ink, which I intended to send up by         pen ande tin t orela Be prcevedthem and took possession of them s ne "(Now) Joe,'f said, h to the negro, who aut once-,eedth apartment, " help me to bind this fello         t wth cordst aftter d         ahmesuo e nd soon bound my arms withcord, lfterluig Which they reti'red, leavinn mo lying on the floor Whither they had thrown me  MiY?     a c o le on- paper anything like a correct ecito of the   eiscrptZo angui sguh into wh ch I was Plunged. M w  ieywsa its heiaht. and the helpless situation of Co Owni, Misery was aorclt Such were my first cruel rea     rnelia, The next  would be- her 4nxiety i She had expected me andbu receung I eanwhile ardy uftcienf!    that lomd P"n, length I whsJ bwought, m9 arms sh ^knew metoo ,never,- I^       w e I .-  wo l   CORELLh DUNNINGTON16 AN  D HS LOST BRIDE, CONEL I DUN   ON.    35 entering      he in Whis h e ws, I ated in an arm ha enterigg thedr  In;"r ut, oh God I how cCanged, yqt how beautiful I   said I to Hubbard.  t the sound of my Bar  all i Monstetr I -ai voice, Cornelia recovered her onsciousnessa  ou 'do n  te h, y dar (3hayjes V1 ishe said to me,':0 ontko what that infamous man proposes to me as a ransom f0ryour 11 erty . "Yes-yes!" cried lubbard, furiously ' You see he in my wrI three days he dies, unless you- power. In three dy o    ,1^       p  ned me. I tied to get to Cornelia's 8ide2 butthe negro prevente S tre I at length see you aga1n, Isaid to her, all my sufferings are Since I at length see you again).1          As for^ f gten  n  eath no longer has any power        mbeiihte Aso forgotten, and dohn    ^^       ub  d)rmme yr, villaiU7 (glancing a look of defiance at Hubbard, rem, that Captain Dunnington lives and will revenge his daughter . "Take him away!" cried Hubbard to the negro "Ah!" said Cornelia, " my love has destroyed you . I wished to answer, but the black demon-forcibly dragged me from the room and back- to my former prison. ^^esssshd tlnghcnfr The scene of which I had been. a witness, had at length conrme all my suspicions. It was evident that Captain Du.,ington was ignorant of the shameful treatment which his daughter had received, deanorangto, dmsl of the  cords tui trem         d and that Hubbard, old as he was, was amorous and jealous, and "  mo ate ge or !hauk T "\  fthev priludig tht he determined to gratify his passion at whatev price Of the three days which Hubbard had allowed Cornelia to decide, two passed away, and it was the middle of the night which preceded two pased fory an "omit woas  d ver lgeat  abot the rom en the third. I was unable to sleep and walked about the room, en- deavoring to rid myself of the cords which still boundmy rists, n which nally succeeded.  I was pacing up and down the apart- ment with rapid strides, after I had freed my limbs, when suddenly I heard Hubbard's voice, crying- "Joe, get your gun Quick!  The house is attacked . Frightful noises now resounded on every side of the old building. tion within, -and the old negro who had Thbere was a great co oinw            .Pesnl acted as sentinel at my room door, rushed away hurriedly. Presentl I heard the sound'of many voices, among which I could distinguish that of Hfiubbard by its loud tone.1 I now heard the report of several guns and the groans o f some one in the agonies of death. The noise for--a moment was very great, but after a cry of triumph the fearful uproar gave place to as fearful-a silence. Soon a roar- ing sound struck my ear-there was a hissjng noise in the air-the night became less dark, and the trees in the garden were tinged w ith red and yellow hues. --   86:     ADVENTURES OF CHARLES MARSHAT T., I flew to the window. The flames were devouring the old castle! They approached on every side the room in which I was confined, and to complete the horror the most piercing screams proceeded from the tower where I knew Cornelia was imprisoned! The reader may well be penetrated with a sense of the horror of my situation. The fire, becomingmore and more fierce, had reached my room; and already the flames were battling around the foot of the tower, from whence Cornelia sent forth shriek upon shriek to which I responded by-cries of fury.  Suddenly I heard the voice of Hubbard begging for mercy, and the tramping of feet in the passage near my door. I battered and , kicked .against it uhtil those without heard me. They opened my -prison with a blow of an axe, and one of them seized me. He wa about to stab me with a dagger when I recognized in him the rober chief! I threw myself at his knees and spoke to him. He remem- bered me. "Oh! it is you, is it?'" said he.  It-is--it is, gasped I. But, oh, sir, there is a woman-my be- trothed-in that tower, and she will be burnt alive! Let me out to assist her! "Go!' said he, and I rushed out and to the foot of the tower, where was lying a  long ladder. -With superhuman strength I raised it and placed it against the wall. It barely reached the open wrin- dow at which Cornelia was now, standing. I darted up with light- ning speed, and soon had her in my arms! -She was almost senseless from- suffocation, and feebly asked-  "Who comes to me?" It is I, -Charles! cried I, as I commenced descending with my precious burden, the flames meanwhile roaring around. (Every step of the ladder trembled under my feet! Arrived at the foot of the burning tower, her joy at her deliver- ance renewed her strength. - Several of the robbers now came upY shouting- 9He's a brave fellow, and deserves her!" At this stage of the proceedings the tower, as well as the sur- rounding walls, fell to the earth with a terrific crash, burying in its ruins the wounded negro, who lay groaning in agony in the garden. Then the robbers brought forth Hubbard. He wAs bound with cords.-Rage, terror, despair, everything which could rack the heart of a tortured villain, glowed in his rolling eyes. He beat the ground with his feet, and uttering horrible blasphemies, reproached heaven with its just vengeance.                   4   AND HS LOST BRIDIE, CORNELIA DUNNINGTON. : 37  *    4 1a the meantime my beloved pressed my hand in hers. "Ah!" said she, (4 Charles, we have escaped but one evil! We are still in the hands of villains, for these men, I am sure, are the robbers of whom I have heard my persecutor, Hubbard, so often. speak. . Perhaps worse than death awaits us!" No, no, Cornelia-the robber-chief is my friend. "You speak aright!" said the leader, at this moment approach- ing us. "But come, tell me, you were in the lower room, and the lady was in the tower. Why was that? I'll wager a bet that you, you rogue, were trying to carry off that maiden from that old butcher, there," pointing to Hubbard,. "and you were right. He is a deep, black-hearted villain, and she is beautiful. Come, explain this to me." I explained to him the particulars of our love up to the time I entered the castle, and the robber seemed satisfied so far as I was concerned; but he demanded of Cornelia a history of her sufferings, first assuring her -that we were both safe for the present. Wine was then offered us from a flask, of which we partook. Cornelia then spoke as follows: "When I was taken from home by my father, he brought me hither, and placed me in the care of Hubbard. I have not seen him since. Some days after his departure, the visits of this wicked old man became more frequent and longer. Certain words which he uttered to me on one occasion, on bringing me food, led me to suspect that his designs were infamous. He dared one day to ex- plain them to me, and I assured him that my worst hatred only should be the return of his tenderness He answered me coolly at 'he time, and said that, after a while I would become more accustom- ed to his presence, and suffer his assiduities, and even to desire them. Separated as I was from everything I loved, and closely confined by my tyrant, (for he informed me I was his prisoner,) I had not even the feeble consolation of being able to give myself tranquilly the remembrance of my past happiness. The only wit- ness of my anxieties and miseries, he seemed to take pleasure in augmenting them. On one occasion he came -to me and assured me that you, Charles, had been killed by my father. By the bar- barous joy he affected I believed the news to be true. Unpitying tyrant 1 I cried to him. Leave me! Leave me! He did so. About 12 o'clock that night I heard my door softly opened, and by the light of a lamp, which I always kept burning, I saw the tyrant ap- proaching my bedside. I had feared this, and was well prepared to prevent it. I had armed myself with a knife, which I had taken   88  .  ADVENTURES oP aHARLES MARSMAT, the precaution to conceal beneath my pillow. I heaped upon the accursed miscreant the reproaches he justly merited, and vowed to him that if he dared-to approach, I would stab him' with my own hands. He recoiled with surprise and afright. "I am tired of bearing your contempt!" said he in going out, "and if I did not want you for something more pleasant, you would see what the arms of a woman could do against me. But I know a sure way to conquer your pride. Soon you shall think yourself too happy to purchase your pardon by the most humble submission!" "He went out; some moments afterwards the negro entered, pistol in hand. I must do him justice-he wept in announcing to me the orders of his master. "Dress yourself, madame'! You must follow me!" "It was all he was able to say. He conducted me to the upper room in the tower, where, but for you, I would have perished. He locked me in that horrible prison; there I languished more than a, month, without fire, without light, without clothes; with bread and water for my nourishment; -a simj :e pallet for my bed. Only one thing served to- render my misery bearable. I saw the tyrant no more. While he waited tranquilly for me to solicit his pardon, I passed whole days and nights in calling upon my father and weeping for my lover- Oh, Charles! With what astonishment was I seized, with what joy was my soul penetrated the day that I recognized you in the:garden." The chief of the robbers listened attentively to the history of her misfortunes, with which he appeared deeply affected. All of a sudden a noise resembling the trampling of horses was heard. It was now daybreak-, and on looking up I observed a crowd of mounted men approaching. The robbers, with the exception of the chief, immediately took to their heels --and vanished.; Hubbard then cried-  "Ah I You perfidious wretchesl You loving couple! You still have not conquered me! The neighboring gentlemen have heard of my misfortunes and have come to "xeeor me!" "They shall not, at all events, have the power to do more than. avenge your death, villain It said the robber, as he placed a ptstol to his ear, and was about to despatch him, when Cornelia begged bhim not to do so. The gentlemen on horseback Bow rode up, and at their head was Captain Dunnington! As soon as he perceived me he cried':- "Wreth! You have, not only betrayed me and my daughter,   AND HS LOST BRIDE, CORNELIA IFUNNrNGTON.   80 the woman who loved you, but I here find you associating with rob- bers in their hellish deeds!" He jumped froi his horse and pointed a pistol at me. .--Cornelia sprang for his arm as he fired it, and the contents entered the brain of Hubbard, who had by this time risen to his feet. Great was the consternation of those who assembled around the body of Hub- bard as he lay dead. A stillness, the most dreadful, ensued. Taking advantage of this I asked Captain Dunnington, as well as the ba- lance of the company, to listen to a recital of Cornelia's sufferings, which I now begged her to give. - This she did without hesitation, reciting what the reader already knows. Dunnington was deeply affected by the sufferings of his child, and instantly became sensible of the important service I had rendered her. Regarding -me without wrath he appeared anxious for me to speak, which I now did. Captain, said I, do I not deserve Cornelia for my wife? We have long loved each other. . Give her to me, and bless us! "I will, Charles!" said he, smiling. "You deserve her, and I should have long since noticed it, had I not been blinded by political ambition and a false sense of honor. --She is yours, take her and be happy!" ,During this, the robber chief had glided from among us unno- ticed, and I have never seen him since. "Well, gentlemen," said one of those who had accompanied Cornelia's father, " who is this dead man, and what shall we do with him?" He is an old slave dealer, who has lived here many years in seclusion; the particulars of his life are known to me alone. Fear- ing the halter for some of his bloody deeds, he broke jail many years ago in Rhode Island, accompanied by a negro, and came here. I was then living in this neighborhood, and knew his secret from hie own lips. I promised to save him from the officers of the law, provided he would lead an honest life in future, which he constantly assured me he was doing.  I .however heard, yesterday, that he robbed the children of a widow of this property by inducing her to sign a will in his favor when she was about dying. By that will he obtained the title to the old castle, or house, here now in ruins, and which was the former residence of the lady, who tookl- him and his negro friend in out'of ch       m   nd, 'hi negro friend in o-ut of charity. I wonder where the negrosis now?" He was shot  e robbers when they attaclke-Me house, said   - . -.      . , -  ', .  '     y"  - w    - .; - ^ AADVUNT RIS 'O - ABL0LS MARSHAIL T- tt I, and his body is douiibtless now consumed, the walls of theb-urning building having fallerP upon him, while he lay writhing, in pain at theo be of the ^eAe- We         a Leit us adjourn to the town' said Captain Dunington. "1 must account for this man's death to the proper tribunal. You are all witnesses that I meaat at least nov to kill him, although my pur- -Epose Was, a; deadly one towards the preserver of my child!" Horses -were furished for Cornelia and myself from the still unharmed stabling of Hubbard, and the entire party started for the village of -Waynesboro', which was, distant but a few miles. Arrived - theire, a corloners Jury returned to the body of Hubbard where an inquest was held on it. The verdict was " accidental shooting.- I made no complaint, of course, against my future father-in-law, and no further judicial proceedings were had. After a few days of rest, I led -ornelia to the altar, receiving her from Athe hands of her father. A week - or two more found us agtcome, where my sisters gladly welcomed us. Since then we - .have enjoyed: u-nglall oyed happiness, sweetened by the frequent re- currence to the sad misfortunes of our early love. CHARLES L. MARSHALL.     
         
       
   
