
    ----CITATION----
        Warfield, Catherine Ann (1816-1877). The Romance of the Green Seal .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8203
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
        
      
         
            The romance of the green seal
            
            
               THE ROMANCE
OF THE
GREEN SEAL.

BY MRS. CATHARINE A. WARFIELD.

THE REVELATION.

BEADLE

NEW YORK:
AND COMPANY, PUBLISHERS,
118 WILLIAM STREET.

'tu
Ott
S
sA
.IA
IV e
t
Page 65.
fr
E.,
. S


THE
"ROMANCE OFTIE GREEN SEAL."
THE QUADROON'S STORY.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1866, oy
BEADLE AND COMPANY,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of Iew York.

.,a,9
;_
«  -
F
Jw
, y
.     r          y
1+- h
l
'
,
t '          3
pis,
44t         .
n,
..         '
,11      :
,.f        f
z       -
y          ,E
i              _ ,.

i
=Z
x
i
,
1 'kt
r'
l tt
c
xs
fF

s
lws
t
. .

PART I.
" YEs, madam," she said, setting
down the basket of snow-white linen,
which she had poised so skillfully on her
head, as she advanced, that she scarcely
seemed conscious of its presence. "Yes,
madam, I can answer you now, though I
could not when you first spoke ; and so
you might have thought me uncivil when
I was only overcome by my feelings. I
do remember the first time I ever saw
my mistress, Madame Aglite Maturepas.
I was between nine and ten years old,
then, very small and delicate for my
age, though, and I had been playing
near the sugar-mills with the other chil-
dren, and had dropped asleep at last,
tired out-for I was not strong like the
rest-under a great live-oak tree that
grew near by, when I felt a few drops
of ice-cold water flutter in my face, and,
catching my breath, I awoke suddenly."
" Lazy little thing, - get up," said a
sweet voice above me. " You came
very near getting snake-bitten lying here
in the grass. See what a big copper-
head your Master Richard has killed,
just as it was about to strike you. Now
you must never lie down out of doors
again-never !"---shaking me slightly,
for, though I understood every word she
said, I was not more than half aroused,
being a languid creature, naturally, ex-
cept when the fit was on me--I mean
the excitement that makes one forget all
bodily trouble or ailment.. So, all this
I heard in a half-drowsy condition, as if
I were dreaming. A quicker repetition
of the big drops soon brought me to my
feet. I staggered-for a moment rubbed
my eyes; then, suddenly bracing myself
to stand upright, looked full in the face
of my master's wife. I had heard my
mother and the other women talking
about the new mistress-how pretty she

was-how young-what a pity it seem-
ecd that she had come to that wretched,
unquiet home-with much more that I
could not understand or distinctly re-
member ; but I had not seen her until
now, and I stood dazzled and delighted
with'her beauty. Madam, she was the
prettiest woman my eyes ever rested on.
I thought so then, and I think the same
way now.   She was both fair and dark,
like most of cur Southern ladies ; but
every thing else was her own. With a
complexion like cream, black - haired,
dark-eyed, straight-featured, she had the
sweetest, reddest lips eyes ever rested on,
and when she smiled her teeth were
like pearls. They had a kind of ltif-
look I never saw in any other teeth, and
were her greatest beauty, many.,people
said.' Besides that, she was 1lim, and
tall and graceful, with beautiful feet and
hands--the latter like ivory. I noticed
these at once, for the drops of water she
had been flinging in my face, out of the
glass she held, were still dripping from
her fingers' tips ; and, as I said before,
these drops were icy cold, for she was
one of those persons who could neve-
touch water, winter or summer, without
its being iced: Ice-water was her pas-
sion, she used to say, as wine is that of
some people.
Ah, madam, you see how that North-
ern feeling was working in her veins
from the very first, and you shall hear
how ice and snow, indeed,chilled the very
life-blood in her heart before all was over.
" Open your eyes, little tipsy one," she
said, laughing,; " you reel like a drunken
robin.  Have you, too, been pecking
china-berries ?" Then, with a sudden
change of thought, she cried out, in a
voice of agony : " Oh, Richard, what if
she is snake-bitten I"
The glass fell from her hand and shiv-
ered on the ground beside me, and she,

G{.tn

t
nt
.


4         THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."        5

had seized me with her trembling hands,
and dropped on her knees beside me
before I could reassure her.
"I anm so glad!" she said, "so re-
lieved I"
Then she kissed me!
Oh ! madam, when the blessed angels
take hold of me in heaven, to teach me
my new life, I may feel as I did then
--never before !  Even yet that kiss
seems at times to thrill upon my cheek,
like a sign and a covenant of joy; but,
at the time, I stood quite still, and she
little dreamed what glued me to the spot,
while my head grew light with transport.
She had risen now, and stood smiling
down upon me, though her eyes were full
of tears. " The child is a little fool,"
she said, drawing me toward her with
a playful gesture.  "I believe I have
frightened her out of her senses nearly !
Yet, look at her, Richard ; what a pretty
deer-like creature she is! Tell me your
name, little one-try and tell me," and
she put back the thick tangled ringlets
from my eyes, speaking most encourag-
ingly, looking even more so.
" Rena I" I said, timidly, almost gasp-
ing with emotion, yet looking her full in
the eyes.
"Rena ?  It is a pretty name," she
said, still pondering on my face, " and
those are honest eyes" She mused a
moment, then turned away, shaking her
head. " What a pity she is so :fair,
Richard," she said, "so nearly white.
I am sorry for the poor-poor little
thing !"
" Because she is pretty and happens
to be fair of face ?" he replied. " Truly,
a strange cause of lamentation where
a woman is concerned ! None but a
woman could think so, I am sure." He
spoke playfully.
The young gentleman was her cousin,
and enough like her to be her own bro-
ther.
" Oh, not that-not that, for its own
sake alone," she said, hastily ; " but I
am sure you understand me. Why
make me explain ? It is not like you to
tease, Richard I',
And probably he adic understand her,
though I did not until long afterward;

and yet I remembered distinctly every
uncomprehended word that she spoke to
me, then and thereafter.
Rena paused thoughtfully.
"You express yourself singularly,
Rena," I said, "for a woman of your
condition. It must have been this habit-
ual memory of words that assisted you
to such accuracy of language, unusual.
with your people."
" Ah, madam, you will not be sur-
prised at this when I have told you all,
and how close I came to her from that
hour. Besides, she took pains with me
in every way, teaching me secretly what
the law forbade her to teach me, and
openly whatever was permitted. She
was one of those persons that blew
sweetness all about them, like a rose or
a jessamine flower, and did not keep it
shut up like odors in a casket. God
made her to perfume His world, I think,
like any other blossom; and she felt this,
for she made little difference in her con-
sideration of high or low. Wherever
her sweet smiles and words could give
comfort, they were given, and it is a
great mistake to think that a poor slave
does not feel courtesy and beautiful
ways as much as a great lady or gen-
tleman. When master objected to her
open, happy manners, and said she had
som e strangeness in her that he could
not understand, I heard Master Richard
telling him that God had made her dif-
ferent from most of His creatures-that
she was one of his' elect,' a born poet--
that was what he called her, 'and such
beings, Monsieur Maurepas', I heard him
say, 'have their own ways of seeing and
thinking and doing, that can never be
corrected. One of these is to love
every thing pretty much alike in this
outward world of ours, for the sake of
its Maker, and hold only a few things
close and dear for their own sake; an.
other is the stripping away of all dis-
guises.'"
"Disguises ? Who talks of disguises ?"
my master interrupted, while his face
grew black and stormy. "Distinction is
the word you aim at, perhaps, Richard
Zavier !" and h~e brought his hand down
hard upon the table. "By heaven, when

1
I'     '

r

I see a woman treat her negroes with
more civility than some of her husband's
chosen associates, I think she wants
sense and discrimination, sir I"
Master Richard was silent, for he
knew what my master alluded to. It
was my mistress' dread of those gam-
blers he kept so constantly,about him--
1. Le Maitre, in particular, for reasons of
her cwn, that she never, told any one,
but that I suspected as I grew older.
And true enough it was that she was
kind, and polite, and feeling to her slaves,
and they adored her for it; so that when
she went into their quarters to see the
sick, or to carry little presents to the
women, those who touched her hand, or
the hem of her dress even, were made
happy. And they loved me the better
because she set me above them all. That
was a proof, I think, madam, of their
devotion to her, and of the way she had
of disarming envy and jealousy---things
that make people so hard to each other,
as a general rule.
" I hope it is not the 'poets borm' who
alone are gifted in this way, my good
Rena," I said, being myself a prosaic
person, and a little nettled for my class;
" but that all good Christians love God
and His works, and dissuade their breth-
ren from evil."
"Alh, there is the difference, madam,
after all! You have shown it to me,
in a few words," said the quadroon,
thoughtfully.  " Christians do what is
right from the letter of their teachings,
and their love of duty ; but she needed
no such lesson, and heeded no such law..
I am sorry to tell you this, madam; but
I have put my hand to the plow-handle,
as the preachers say, and I will not look
back. You shall hear this story, as you
desire to do, in all its naked truth.
"Beyond a certain point, duty was no
law to her.  She could not understand
it as pleasant or beautiful, apart from
inclination. It chafed her, and she
strained and fretted against her chain
until it snapped. Then she felt free !
For the rest, she was born pitying and
true, and those that made her otherwise
should bear the blame. .
"People have a right to be happy if

[ !i

they can. I remember a copy she set
me once, madam.    She called it her
"golden rule"
" Give love n limits; hate no holiday."
"What an extreme sentiment, Rena.
I fear your sweet mistress was a little
implacable after all-revengeful even."
"Yes, madam, she was; but it was
long before she came to that condition
of mind. She bore so much first, she
forgave so often and so freely, that any
one not wholly blind and reckless could
have prevented it and made her happy.
For she was kind, pitying, tender to the
last degree; then, all at once, stone.
could not be harder or more insensible.
That was her nature, madam; God made
her so when He poured Spanish blood
into her veins. You see, very few knew
her as I did, whose youth was spent in
her service-hers! now a blessed angel, I
must believe, in glory with her Savior."
The woman wiped her still brilliant
eyes, and turned away.
After a pause I spoke:
"You loved her very fondly, it seems,
Rena ?"
" Yes, madam, more than I have done
my nearest of kin."
"Strange-strange ! Yet, you were
her slave I Iow can this be accounted
for? You are now a free woman, and
know the vast difference of situations.
What made the hand so dear to you that
held you in bondage ?"
I spoke warmbly-indignantly almost,
for I resented as an injury to human-na-
ture this spaniel-like affection in one of
my kind ; but I forgot at the time, or did
not fairly recognize, as I since'..have
done, the difference of race.
" You Northern ladies can never
know," said Rena, solemnly, " the strong
bond of affection that draws. together
good slave, good master. The evil of
both classes hate each other, as do- all
evil persons, wherever found ; but this
tie, that can not be broken in most cases
except by death, is like marriage-some-
times most dear, at others hard to bear."
I did not recognize the force of the
comparison, yet suffered it to pass un-
challenged, hoping that she might there-
after proceed with less digression. I


THE "RO1JANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."         7'

6           THE1 )     CE.- OF THE GREEN SEAL." .

was disappointed. It was now her
turn to interrogate.
"And now, let me ask- you, madam,
before I go farther in this story-which
I have never before told except in
broken snatches-why it is you show so
deep an interest in the fate of my poor
mistress, and whether it was to hear of
her that you sought me out, through thin
wide city, to be your laundress, when
you could have procured others, near at
home, quite as skillful ?"
" Your first question I will answer,
Rena, before we part ; your second at
once. It was for this I sought you;
and now that I have obtained the pro-
mise of this history, let me question you
in turn: Why is it that you-a woman
so superior to your class in attainments
-still follow one of their humblest oc-
cupations?  You who might obtain con-
fidential employment, or instruct others
of your blood, for a livelihood ?"
" There are laws and limits, lady, in
the South for all people of color," she
said, timidly. "I should not dare to
teach; but I have a pleasant house,
and young clerks for boarders who pay
well, and women to help me about my
cookery and laundry work-the work
I love the best, because I was taught
early by my mother to wash fine linen,
and my mistress would wear no gar-,
ment touched by any other hands than
hers or mine. Fine spider-web linen
she wore, to be sure, with not half' the
weight in it of yours and others I have
washed for-linen-cambric tunics -and
such like."
I smiled at the curious word so deli-
cately applied : "Your mistress was a
Sybarite," I said, smiling.
" Yes, I heard Master Richard call
her so. No ! it was a Sibyl he called
her ! What is a Sybarite, madam ?" she
asked, with a sudden shadow of suspi-
cion stealing over her fine countenance.
" Only a person, Rena, who wants
every thing about him or her perfectly
luxuriant. There was one of old times
who could not sleep on a bed of roses
because one leaf was crumpled. Your
mistress was particular in the extreme
it seems." -

"Yes, in some matters-not' in. all
She always slept hard, madam; ate
simply, touched no wines, cared little
for jewels; her bath,- her flowers, her
fine fragrant linen, her books, her time,
were what she wanted and would have.
Then she burned a great many wax
candles, it is true-yes, she was wasteful
in this respect-this only," and she
shook her head in a deprecating way.
"I heard Master Richard tell her she
reminded him of the cobbler of Brusa,
when he saw her with so many lights
in' her chamber. Did you ever hear of
him, madam?   The cobbler of Brusa, I
mean."
Remembering the odd tale of Eastern
origin, I laughed- and nodded. " When
will she get into the heart of the mys-
tery ?" I thought.
" A strange spiritual creature, was this
same fair mistress of yours, Rena," I
suggested. "Go on. All that you tell
me of her interests me more and more.
What was her story, Rena ?"
SAi, madam, you will have to let
me tell it in my own way, if you care to,
hear it to the end. I see that you are
impatient, but I can not help that. Jus-
tice must be done to all, and before you
know what my mistress did and how she
suffered, you must know what she was,
and what others around her were -
then you will be prepared to judge cor-
rectly."
" This is what painters call putting in
a background, Rena, to relieve the
figures against. You are right; spare
no details. I would know every thing.
Take your own time, too," and I leaned
back, expectantly, in my chair, resting
my cheek on my hand, and fixing my
eyes earnestly on the quadroon, who
calmly proceeded :
I have told you that Master Rich-
ard, said she was a " born poet," and
not responsible, like other people. This
made-her, very independent, I suppose;
for, in spite of continual unkindness on
my master's part, and the many crosses
he threw in her path, she had her oivan.
way of being happy and making others
so. She used to tell me that she had
an outward world, and an inward

 '

world, apart from the rest. Not even
Master Richard could enter these. She
sa# only one ever crossed its boundar-
ie she told me afterwards, and he came
to destroy and to desolate. She called
it the " world of fancy !"
The woman gazed at me so seriously
that I felt she had lent a material mean-
ing to the metaphor, or, at least, a re-
spect bordering on fanaticism. I was
touched by the simplicity of her faith
and her wrapt fidelity.
" A beautiful, but dangerous king-
dom," I was tempted to reply.
" And there she was a crowned
queen, madam ! I have heard her say
so to Master Richard ; but that was only
her pretty way of talking, I know, for
I never saw her wear any thing of the
kind on her head, nor any scepter either,
in her hand-a scepter which she pro-
mised him to put forth some clay, and
so touch men's hearts to do deeds of
good and glory. But she never did,"
shaking her head sadly.
"Did she write, Rena--I mean com:
pose poems, or stories, or publish them ?
I think I have heard so."
"Oh'! yes, madam; she wrote a great
deal, and took great comfort in her pen.
These writings she published in different
papers, with Master Richard's assist-
ance, and signed her name 'Valence' to
all of them. This was her middle name,
and everybody in 'Belle-Garde' parish
took pride in these beautiful pieces,
which were praised far and near. For
all that, her real name, as the writer,
never got out to the world, nor beyond
the immediate neighbors.   She .was
called Aglac by her family and friends,
and by strangers, of course, Madame
Aglde Maur pas."
I saw at once what scepter she had1
alluded to in her girlish gayety of vani-
ty, but thought it useless to enlighten
Rena; so I only replied, amused by her
little pomposity.
" Quite a grand name, Rena !"
"Ah ! madam? I never thought so,"
she rejomned ; " that .3arpas had
always an evil sound to me. Mas-
ter Richard said it meant a 'cruel
feast,' in the beginning; but. perhaps he

was jesting. Still, it sounded ill to me.
And cruel feasting enough there was,
indeed, in that house of Maurepas ! One
would have thought Satan and all his
imps had been let loose in that great
basement - hall - when Monsieur Le
Maitre and his cronies came up to do a
night's gambling with my master."
" And it was from wretches like these,
your mistress- shrunk ! No wonder,
poor child," I said, musingly ; " but, tell
me, Rena, had your profligate master no
love for his young and tender wife?"
" More than she ever knew, madam;
more than he knew himself, for people
don't always understand rightly, it seems
to me, what is in their own hearts. She
was his pride; yet there never passed a
day when he was at home that he did
not try to cross or sting her, in some
way, or throw her off her guard so as
to gain a mean advantage over her ;
and when he was gone, he set his spies
to watch every motion.  But this she
never knew; and it is something to say,
that even they could find nothing against
her, watch as they might. Old Pierre,
the gardener, and his wife and daughters,
were the only people on the plantation
base enough for this office, and they had
Indian blood in them, we all knew."
'What made you fancy that your
master had any affection for one he
mistreated so, Rena? What were the
signs and tokens ?"
"His eyes followed her, madam,
wherever she moved. He would lie
snioking on the portico, and watch her
with a more softened look on his face
than I-ever saw come to it at any other
time, as she trained the vines on the
lattice work, or chirped to her caged
birds, or played with her fawn, over the
balustrades, holding cake and bread so
as to make it rear up and eat from her
hand ; then laughing as merrily as a
child. You see it was in her to enjoy
every thing. It is not many persons
that little things please so greatly, as
they did her. -Besides, she was always
well-and scarcely knew what pain
was. Master Richard said she put him
in mind of a cup running over with
sparkling wine, there was so much life

o


8         THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

in her. And my master admired all
this, though he never said so. She was
called, too, the prettiest woman in. the
parish, and he was proud of her sitting
at the head of his table when his diners
came, so gay, so gracious, yet so care-
less of every one, for there was not a
man among them that could ever touch
her fancy, try as they might ; and she
loved to get away from them into the
quiet of her own chamber, just as soon as
possible after the stately meal was over."
" Rena," she said to me, one night (I
remember it well-it was after a grand
dinner party, and the noise of the
gentlemen came now and then in bursts
through the open window), " Rena, draw
down the blinds, close the curtains,
light the bougies-that was what she
called her wax candles-take away all
tis-her fine clothes, she meant-and
bring' mei a linen wrapper.  There,
little one, sit at my feet, and pass
your soft hands across them; they are
weary I Now for Hyperion I" and she
took up the book she had left, half read,
on her table, and pored over it silently
for some time. Then she laid it quietly
down again, and folded her hands, with
a soft,pleased expression.
" I am so happy to-night, Rena-so
blessed !  Do you know, I care for
nothing earthly -outside of this room?
Is not this selfish?  And yet, there is
enough here to fill my soul with joy and
thankfulness to God."
"Nothing besides ?" I thought pro-
per to say. " Oh, mistress, think of
your own dear mother !"
Her head drooped a little, and she
mum inured: " She is well off with her
s n and her good daughter-in-law, and
in her comfortable home-for which she
bartered me. Was not J    ph happy
in Egypt without his brethren, Rena-
his brethren, who sold him ? Yet, he
never ceased to regard them kindly.
I feel like Joseph-alone !"
" And Master Richard," I whispered,
" dear mistress ? Don't you love master
Richard ?"
" Oh, certainly, Rena. Why, what
possesses you to ask such questions ? Of
course I love Richard ; but I am very

well without him. I have these spells
of unutterable blessedness. I can't help
it ! I hope it is not wrong. It is con-
stitutional, I suppose, with ne, and I
believe I could be contented on a desert
island, if .I were suffered to be free and
at peace."
" Without me, mistress ?" I asked,
while tears of vexation stood in my
childish eyes, and I clasped her feet
spasmodically.'
" Little goose, what jealous affection
you manifest i What a passionate nature
it is," she went on to say, as she heard
me sobbing, and felt me clinging closely
to her knees, while she patted my head
tenderly ; then, in a changed voice, she
added: "But, I do love you, Rena, better
than aught else in the world, I am afraid
-quite well enough for my happiness
and yours. It is very dreadful to love
any frail, perishable creature as you
love me.   Don't indulge such fond-
ness, child-don't, if you hope for peace."
Than she murmured: "I thank thee,
oh, God ! that my heart is suffered to
be at rest-if, indeed, I possess one at
all.  Of this I doubt sometimes."
Just then we heard a tap at the door,
and Master Richard came in, glad to
escape from the " orgies" below, as lie
called them ; and they were soon deep
in " Hyperion," and in Tennyson-" a
great English poet," they called him.
"Locksley Hall," was the poem he
read that night, I remember, and it kept
ringing in my ears, like a grand organ I
once heard in New Orleans, for days
and nights afterward.
Let me tell you here, madam, that
I slept in a little bed in my mistress'
dressing-room, that she heard my prayers
night and morning, and some lessons
through the day; taught me to sew, to
embroider, exacted from me implicit
obedience, yet never struck me nor
scolded me in her life. Yet I feared
her. I feared something that was in her,
stronger than the power to whip and
scold-a spirit that looked out, some-
times, from her great .growing eyes,
terrible, incomprehensible to me - a
silent fiery soul, it seemed, striving to
p)ut aside its bonds of flesh-just about to

FI

1
C
,1
ti
1-
y
i
B
el
d
m
b
b
b
cit
w
ti 
a
tl
aw
am
hi

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN' SEAL."                        g
soar away. I"could compare that look  lie tried, constantly to crush out of her?
to nothing else.                      I will give you but one instance of the
The very recollectio. of this peculiar way she opposed him when her feelings
phase of expression seemed to affect the were excited, and the way in which she
quadroon.   She was silent for some   bore his cruelty afterward. .
minutes.                                Once, when my mother was to have
Later, she said, softly, later,'I knew  been whipped for some slight offense
the meaning of that look ; but at first it against my master, and, in the absence
was sealed from me. Oh, sweetest mis-  of the overseer, by his own hand (the
tress, who else on carth ever loved and  offense was one of oversight-not of re-
suffered like you?                    bellion), my mistress stood resolutely
She leaned a momenton her hand-    before her, and the first blow of the
as if lost in meditation. Her eyes were  horsewhip 'lie used fell on her own
clouded with tears.                   white shoulders-tearing the flesh away
" There was a latent fierceness, after in a ghastly-wound.
all, in her character, Rena," I said; "what  My master had not supposed that
brought it out at last? So far, you have she would stand her ground between
shown me nothing that was not sweet   them when he struck at my mother.
and tender in her nature.  Some great  To do him justice, lie was greatly shock-
change must have occurred."           ed, and flung the riding-whip'irom him,
She smiled bitterly: "Impatient again,  muttering great oaths, then striding off
nadam I That was her fault. I thought  without a word of regret. The proof
you Northerners had more ice and snow  that lie felt the matter being only this-
.n your veins than we poor Southerners. that he never struck my mother again
ut it is not given to you to know, in  while she lived, and was sullenly de.
he nature of things, how it was that my pressed for days after. He never sought
distress was both fiery and soft-hearted-  to know how deeply lie had wounded
oth tender and merciless. This mixture  the tender flesh of his wife. I was the
elongs to our country alone, men say-  only one who saw that wound, aind she
ut most of all to that Spanish blood  charged me not to  speak of it, even to
rhich my mistress inherited from her  my mothci. " It is disgraceful, you see,
tier, Francis Zavier, and which mixes  Rena," she said, half laughing, "for a lady
s poorly in American veins as oil with  to be whipped like a slave, and must be
after.  Certainly, her father's nature  kept secret from  all the world. You
vas uppermost in her. Madame Zavier  understand this,'I know."
vas a tame woman, and such are called  " But was she not indignant at her
enduring,' but my master would have  husband's barbarity--cold and resentful
rushed her into misery and obstinacy  to him? I amd sure I should have been."
irectly, calm as she seemed, while my  " Oh, not at all. She knew the blow
distress slipped from between his fingers  was not intended for her, and she saw
ke a spirit. She was too fine for his  that lie suffered.  She rejoiced in the
lumsy blows. He might as well have   idea that she had done good to more
ied to grapple with flame, or to catch  than  one, first by awakening in his
will-o'-the-wisp, as to conquer her  breast a spirit a.in to remorse, terlaps
trough terror.  She was not afraid of new resolutions, merciful in themselves
im either, and he knew it. She was   and  the parents of better thoughts;
ot afraid of any one she did not love, secondly, in saving my feeble mother
nrd for him she had no affection, else  from undeserved punishment."
me, too, like his poor first wife, might "Just think, Rena," she said to mer.
ave been a coward before hinm." -as I was dressing the wound with salve
Was it not strange, maclam, that the as shte instructed me to (10, "how twenty
ery thing he admired in her--this fine sucht stripes as these would have hurt
nid fearless spirit that gave her leave to that poor, sickly woman, if one p~aius mue
e happy, even in am tyrant's presence- so, who am comparatively strong and


10       THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

healthy. Besides, this teaches me how
to feel for others and to suffer with them.
It is good for me, and our Savior him-
self was scourged."
She said this, I knew, to strengthen
herself to bear the pain ; but I could only
reply with sobs and tears, while she
shivered with agony.
" Hush, hush, unreasonable child," she
said ; "you have not a particle of courage,
I fear, and you quite unnerve me by
your conduct. Be still, Rena, and never
allude to what you see to-day, nor to the
wound-that is, if you love your mis-
tress."
The injunction was obeyed ; I stifled
my 4s, and never before breathed a
word of this dreadful stripe to human
ears; yet, when my hands straightened
her for the coffin, it was still there, pur-
ple, and sore, perhaps, through all her
life - at least I often suspected this,
when I felt her wince from my fingers
as I fastened her dresses and stays. But,
she never complained, and I knew her
too well to ask her any questions about
it. She was one of those persons who
put aside a wrong once and forever
when she forgave it. There were slighter
blows than this that she resented more.
But, you shall hear.
" Was your master really improved
by this beautiful forbearance on her-
part ?" I asked. "I trust he was, for the
honor of human nature. Was he more
kind to her thereafter ?"
" No, madam, I can not say he was.
He was one of those people that needed
a victim and enjoyed one, as a cat does
torturing a mouse. It was his nature-
a fierce appetite. He could not help it,
I suppose. Yet, in the bottom of his
heart he loved her-if such a feeling
came between them at all, a thousand
times better than she loved him."
"Ay, that was the worst part of the
story, Rena. Had she but loved him,
all might have been well," I exclaimed,
with an irrepressible groan. She started
as she saw me leaning back in my chair,
quite faint and pale. '
" You have some great interest in this
tale, lady," she said. " You can not con-
ceal it. What can you know of that

part of the story, which I have not told
you yet ?"
"I know nothing perfectly, and that
is the reason I seek to know the whole.
My reasons you shall have hereafter.
My happiness, perhaps, or that of others
near to me is staked on the truth of your
narration. Tell me nothing else, as you
hope for life in heaven."
She raised her hand with great sol-
emnity. " I swear to tell you the truth,
if I tell you any thing," she said, " but
this rests with you alone. Would it not
be better, for your peace of mind, to
hear no .more ? Consider, lady, before
you lift the vail: you may find a corpse
beneath it, where you hope for life."
I saw what she suspected, from my
momentary vehemence, and I resolved
to disarm her, if possible, by my man-
ner thenceforth, of suspicions that might
only frustrate my earnest desire to hear the
story she alone could give me faithfully,
in all its delicate and mysterious details.
" I will hear it," I said, calmly. " As
a connection by marriage with one of
the parties interested, I naturally feel a
desire to know the truth- with regard to
his complicity in the affair.
" Are you sure no blood of yours
flowed in his veins, lady ?"
"Not a drop, I assure you, Rena."
My careless manner and the openness
of my gate partly reassured her.
" Is that your husband's picture ?" she
asked, abruptly, pointing to the cabinet-
sizesl portrait 6f a dark, handsome man
upon the wall. " As often as I have
been here I have never seen him."
. " Yes, that is his picture, Rena. My
husband is absent just now, in Cuba.
When he comes again you shall judge
for yourself if this likeness be correct."
She mused awhile, looked at me ear-
nestly from time to time, finally seemed
quite satisfied that she had been mistaken
in her first-conjecture, then resumed the
thread of her desultory narrative--it might
be called - her very strange, analytic,
and didactic discourse, which, so far,
revealed nothing of all I most desired to
know, yet which deeply interested me
from its earnestness.
"We were speaking of my master,"

she said. " He was a French creole,
madam, as you might know    from his
narie, and there is a great deal of the
tiger in 'that llood, at the best, they say;
but his, I have heard tell, was a straight
stream from the veins of the Frehch
revolutionists. He had a long light lock
of hair, of a kind of faded gold-color,
that he used to bring out sometimes, and
that he said his father had torn from the
head of the Princess Lamballe, and left
to him as a priceless treasure ! Did you
-         ever hear of her, madam, or was there,
truly, such a person ?"
I shuddered as I recalled the frightful
incident of her death at the hands of an
infuriated mob, and confirmed her ex-
istence by a few faltering words, then
asked
" How did your mistress bear the ex-
hibition of this trophy ?"  From trifles
like these I thought to derive gradually
a true knowledge of her character, apart
from prejudice.
" Bear it ? She would hide her face
and shriek and quiver with agony, as
though a poisonous.snake had been in
the room. He never did any thing to
her at first that affected her more deeply
than this, and he took care not to-repeat
this torture too often, for fear of losing
its effect, I suppose," she said, bitterly.
"I could give him credit for no nobler
motive."
"He was a bad man, Rena, a very
fiend. Was it the habit of your mis-
tress to retaliate on him, with words, or
how did she defend herself from his ill
usage ?
" With looks, chiefly."
"Looks, Rena ?  I did not think any
woman's eyes could cope with such a
monster."
"She had such strange light-in hers-
like sheet-lightning in a thunder-cloud.
Madam, if you had ever met a panther-
cat at twilight, with its great glowing,
steady, dilating eyes, shining like balls
of fire, you might know how hers looked,
sometimes, when my master would tread
too sorely on her feelings.  And he
shrunic from those looks - he quailed
under them, as almost any man would
have done. There was great power in

her, somehow-gay and delicate, and
careless as she seemed to be-Master
Richard called it 'magnetic power.' I
never understood him exactly."
"Did she ever give di one of her
terrible looks ?" I asked.
" Not more than once or twice in her
life, that I know of, and they well-nigh
killed him.
"Thereseems to have been a strong
attachment between these two young
people, Rena. Was your master never
jealous of Dichard Zavier ?"
" Jealousy oh no, madam, not in the
true sense of the word... His jealousy
of Master Richard was only to vent his
rage . They had been bred up like
brother and sister, and were own cousins,
and, outside of her chamber, Master
Richard was the only true comfort my
mistress ever had. My master had great
respect for him at the bottom of his
heart-for his character, so spotless and
Christian-like was it; and for his fine in-
telligence and manners, and for his
blood, which lie well knew was better
than his own, though Master Richard-
was then, as far as people knew, a poor
struggling physician, living in the little
town of Claireforte, near by, and just
managing to make both ends meet, by
editing a small newspaper, and~ keeping
the post-office, and selling drugs, as well
as practising his profession. Any thing
for a decent livelihood, he would say.
But he always kept up appearances, as a
true gentlemen will ever. strive to do.
He had his horse, and his own servant
(my husband afterward, madam, an ex-
cellent Christian- colored man, like, and
yet now unlike, his master), and Master
Richard was always well dressed-care-
fully so when lie came to Maurepas,
which was regularly once a week, {for a
night and day, and this was the happiest
time of her life to my poor mistress."
You should have seen them, madam,
sketching and writing and strolling to-
gether ; you should have heard his sweet
voice i'eading the Scriptures to the slaves
on Sunday, and explaining it as he went.
Even my master could see no harm in
such an intercourse.
Yet he often treated Master Richard

THE " RO MANCE OF THE GREEN: ,,SEAL.''  1 l


THE ROMANCEE OF THE GREEN SEAL."E OF THE GREEN SEAL."

very coldly, as, indeed, he did all visitors,
except those who came to carouse with
him, or those who, like himself, had
lands, gold, and negroes to boast about ;
and, I think, if he had dared to do it, he
would have cut his wife off even from
this pure and sweet society, as he had
done from all others. . For, madam, my
mistress was a prisoner on her own plan-
tation, never allowed to visit anywhere;
and this was whispered around, and in
spite of her wealth and beauty, people
pitied her as much as they disliked
Maurepas.
Yet, I mu telling you about the
happy time of her life, just now-happy,
in spite of her mean, tantalizing husband,
her solitude -greater even in cities
than elsewhere, when he took her to
New Orleans or Mobile, and guarded her
all the time, scarcely leaving her alone,
even with me, for more than a few
moments each day; happy, in spite of
my master's quarrels with her mother,
which banished Madame Zavier from his
house. forever; in spite of the absence
9f all religion, except what she built up
for herself, on the foundation of Master
Richard's teaching, for no expounder of
God's word was ever permitted to set
foot at Maurepas.
In spite of all these drawbacks, she
was happy, madam, at the time of which
I am telling you ; happy in herself;
happy, it seemed to me, like a bee or a
butterflyI
" A selfish sort of happiness, at best,
Rena."
" God might have thought so, madam,
and so given her the trials I have yet to
tell. But, her wrestle in the tent ended
not at dawn. Well, it is all over now ;
but I can not blame her, study as I
may I I am one of those who believe
that people have a right to try to be
happy in their own way, so that they
hurt no one but themselves in the
failure."
She spoke almost defiantly.
Rena," I replied, " duty and princi-
pe are above all else, and it is not pos-
sible for harm to stop with one alone,
any more than for a ripple made by the
smallest pebble to cease before it reaches

the shore. Such is the philosophy of
life-such its stern reality."
Rena made no reply, but stooped
gloomily to take up the basket she had
emptied, and placing - and poising it
again on her head, moved toward the
door.
"You are going Rena ?"
"Yes, madam ; but I will return. I
have no heart to tell you the story of the
'Green Seal' to-day. But, before you
go to your own North country again,
you shall hear all, if you have a mind to
listen patiently, for I have but a slow
way of getting along when I talk of
her-of my mistress, I mean."
Stay, Rena I I have a proposition
to make you. Why will you not go
North with us, where this stigma of
color exists not--where you would be
estimated as you deserve to be=-where
you could shake off, forever, the old
brand of slavery, and live a truer life
than you can ever do here ?"
She smiled half disdainfully, hesita-
ted, colored, but her natural courtesy
held in check, I think, the reply she was
about to make. Then she said, in soft
accents:
" Lady, you mean well, I know; but
I should die in one year in your coun-
try. What would I be away from sun-
shine and flowers, and my own fruits,
and my own people?   The snow, and
the cold, quiet' ways folks have there,
would never suit me; nor the food they
eat, nor the manner of their living.
Then, to have to be thrown with low
Dutch and Irish, and such white trash,
would be dreadful to me, dear lady.
Here, the planters protect us from being
troubled by such rabble, and the. free
quadroons are very happy together-
a race apart. No, I must live and die in
the South ; it is my country, and Loui-
siana is the garden-spot of the world I"
She had said much of this as she
walked slowly away from  me. Now
turning at the door, she made me a low
salaam, ave me a pleasant smile, and
vanished into the corridor. A few
moments later 1 sawv her stately form
passing in the street below my win-
dow, erect, graceful, self-poised, with

her basket on her head, as an empre
crowned I
But I knew she would return.
was with her now a necessity to te
that tale, as great as the "Aiiciei
Mariner's "-a necessity even greate
perhaps, than was mine to hear it.
PART II-
AGAmI Rena caine. It was a mornin
in June, redolent with balm and fro
grance, such a day as we feel nowhere
I believe, beyond the northern limits o
Louisiana. But, the time had cone fo
me to leave behind me that delicious
yet dangerous clime, and the last washing
of snowy linen had been brought hom
preparatory to my departure. Tht
quadroon had volunteered to assist mi
to pack my trunks, and I had obtained
the promise of her long-delayed story
before we should commence the busi
 ness of the day, or days, as it might be
" Sit down, Rena, in that low chair,"
I said. " Rest, for you seem weary,
Take this for refreshment," and I poured
her a glass of iced lemonade from the
crystal pitcher on the slab. "And now,
Rena, time presses. Having prepared
your background, hasten to paint in
your figures."
. She understood me, evidently, for,
setting down her empty glass, she began
suddenly, and with more directness than
I could have expected, to relate her
"Romance of the Green Seal."
Let me apologize here for many de-
viations as to mere expressions from
Rena's mode of narrative-the thread
of which, however, is strictly observed,
and the manner, also, as far as memory
serves me, and a different mold of mind
would admit, after the lapse of months,
for it was not until long After I returned
to my northern home, that I committed
to writing the second portion of this
story of real life, so deeply, painfully
engrossing to my feelings.
You know already, dear lady, that
my mistress was Madam Aglate Maure-
pas--Mle. Zavier before her marriage.

Lk

ss My master was nearly twenty years
older than she, but was still considered
It  a very handsome man, tall, commanding-
ll looking, with black eyes, hair, and beard,
nt an aquiline nose, fine teeth, smooth,
r, though sallow skin, and a dressy, fash-
ionable air. My mistress was seventeen
when he first saw her at the opera, and
vowed that she should be his wife. The
thing seemed preposterous then. He
had been a cruel husband to his first
wife-a plain, but excellent woman,
g whom he had married for her money.
a- This was well known to her friends, and
e, many persons believed his bad treatment
f to have been the principal cause of her
r death It is true, lie was rich and child-
s  less; but, on the other hand, Mr. Francis
g  Zavier was a famous merchant in those
e days, having his principal house in Ha-
e vana, though lie made New Orleans his
e home, as it was his favorite place of busi-
I  ness. His daughter was there a reigning
belle, besides being very beautiful and gift-
- ed, " a genius" was what they called her.
. Providence placed my poor mistress
in his hands at last. In the'great crisis
of that year of thirty-seven, Mr. Francis
Zavier was involved, and, after strug-
gling a few months against his troubles,
died of a broken heart, a bankrupt, leav-
ing a widow and four children, the eldest
of whom was Mademoiselle Aglite, the
others, boys from eight to sixteen years
old, unable, at that time, to make their
own support.
It chanced that my master held a
claim  against Mr. Zavier's estate, in-
dorsed by his wife, whose small private
property, a plantation, was thus placed
wholly at his mercy.
He acted with great seeming gene-
rosity on this occasion, and the end was
an  understanding  between  him  and
Madame Zavier, that inreturn for her
daughter's hand, she was to have his -
relinquishment. It was a perfect bar-
gain and sale; yet I believe the mother
thought she was doing the best thing
possible for her child as well as herself,
in encouraging, if not compelling, this
marriage. Miss Aglae had no other at-
tachment. She was averse, at first, but
at last persuaded herself that she would

r,.

12

THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

13

I


THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."      15

learn to love Monsieur Maurepas when
she got used to his ways and looks. And
so. when eighteen years old, she mar-
ried him-a man of upward of seven-
and-thirty at the time, and wholly un-
congenial to her in every way.
"Ah, madam, that is 'the secret of
married happiness after all-suitability,"
said Rena, solemnly, " and nothing can
make up for this want. They did not
suit each other," she continued, in the
same philosophic vein,." but, surely, this
was no fhult of hers, for, who was there
my master would have suited with his
cruel, morose temper, his hardness, his
profligacy, his cowardice ?"
She ground the last word between her
short, white teeth, as if it had been some
obnoxious matter which she was trying
to reduce to powder, and her eyes fairly
flashed fire.
" You hated your master, Rena ?"
No madam, no ; I never hated him,
except for her sake. Whatever he did
to me and mine has been freely forgiven,
long ago, as you shall hear when the
end comes. I am not given by nature
to hating any one."
1 "&amp;t persons of your blood are said
to be revengeful. What was your own
history, Rena?  How caine you in his
hands?  Was he-"-
I hesitated, but she understood me
instantly.
"No, madam, lie was no kin of mine.
Hy father was a ship captain, a Swede,
a brave, bold man, handsome, (I have
his picture that shows for itself), good-
tempered, affectionate. He was lost at
sea when I was three years old, so that
my mother and myself had to be sold
for the benefit of his creditors. He had
left us free in his will, but this, owing to
his involvements, could not be carried
into effect, and Monsieur Maurepas bought
us together on the block. He made my
mother his housekeeper at first, but grew
dissatisfied with her, for his own reasons,
and turned her out of his house, after
beating her severely, with orders to set
foot there no more. Then lie took in
Phobe Reviere, who suited him better.
After this,.my mother did the plantation
se wing, being too delicate to work out.

She had never done any thing harder than
cleaning a house, or getting up fine linen,
or a meal, in her life, and that for her own
benefit, and had enjoyed every comfort.
"At first she was very miserable, but
afterward married Frederick Tanque,
the foreman of the place, and was com-
paratively happy again. He was hind
to her, and their cabin was the best
kept, and most spacious on the planta-
tion. They had fig-trees, peaches, and
plantains in plenty, in their inclosure,
and fowls, and pigs, so that they were well
supplied with food ; and, as they had no
children, lived without much exertion."
My mother worshiped the new mis-
tress. She had never known the first
Madani Maurepas, whose plain, white
tombstone was placed in the grove near
the sugar-mill--a sort of play-place for
the children-and whose ghost was
said to haunt the long lemon-tree walk
that led to the mansion. My mother
saw it herself, and though she had never
seenthe first mistress, she described her
to a hair afterward, even to a little halt
in her walk, and the way she had of
waving her hands as she went, and her
strange, blue eyes, so dim and cold, and
pale golden hair, faded and straight. It
makes my blood creep but to think of it.
She shuddered visibly.
" You believed this, Rena ?" She look-
ed at me with grave surprise ; then, drop-
ping her eyes, said, with some asperity,
"Certainly, madam. My mother was
a truthful person, and a religous woman
-a pattern for the whole plantation."
I felt rebuked, more by her manner
than her words. "But, it was not my
mother's story I came here to tell you,"
she continued, with a sad smile; "that
would interest you, and such as you, but
little: the story of a slave-what does
it amount to ?" Again she mused.
I thought of Keats' epitaph as an apt
illustration, but made no further re-
mark. I wished to throw no possible
hinderances in her way, and yet she was
mistaken in her assertion. " The story
of a slave,", accurate, unbiased, natural,
and the workings of a slave's own mind,
under all circumstances, would be ene of
the most interesting narratives the world

t.
tY
1  r
..y(9
4}

,lid !
YJ
1{  j,1
,ij tt(
lfT t
I
a . yi'T
t )r
" Ati{
r ti^;
tia}
S a
S
1L1. ,
f
r
rf
l
i

has- yet received. Perhaps we might
find in it the keystone. of compensation,
and receive thereby lessons yet un-
dreamed "in our philosphy."
I remember the day as well as
though it was yesterday, when Master
Richard knocked at my mistress' cham-
.ber-door, and handed her a letter fastened
with a green seal, continued Rena.
It was a Saturday afternoon in Sep-
tember, just four years to the very day
after her marriage. Already she was
alone in her bed-room, as she ever after
remained, for master preferred his sepa-
rate apartments in the wing-where he
could go and come just as hie chose to
do, and drink deep at night if it suited
him.   The arrangement pleased   her
more than lie liked to see. She felt so
secure, so happy in the sole possession
of her room, or rooms, rather, for she
had a spacious dressing-room, and her
bed stood in a windowed alcove, so that
when the curtains were dropped, her
chamber looked like a beautiful parlor.
She kept her books, her secretary, and
her harp there. On the last she played
very finely, having been well taught
this accomplishment at her convent. I
mention all this to show you that it was
not a breach of propriety for Master
Richard to come to her sleeping apart-
ments, as lie always did-a fashion
more prevalent in the South, I suppose,
than with you Northern people, who
build so many stories to your houses, as
I hear. The mansion of "Maurepas"
was all on one floor, and every room
opened by long windows on galleries, so
none were very private.- The drawing-
room was never used except for com-
pany, nor the state dining-room. Two
of the chambers were reserved for
guests. The breakfast-room was only
opened at meals, and in the two oppo-
site wings hived my master and mistress.
So you may see, dear lady, what sort of
married felicity was theirs
But, let me go back to that first
letter, with the seal of her fate upon it-
thme seal that seemed, from the very be-
ginig, .to work with her like witch-
craft. Madam, do you believe there is
such a thing ?

14        THE "'ROMANCE ' OF THE GREEN SEAL.??

She asked the question so solemnly,
so abruptly, that it startled me.
" Magnetism is very like it, Rena, in
its effects," I answered, gravely, " and I
certainly believe in that; but the sources
are widely different."
"Madam, believe me or not, as you
will, I am quite sure in my own mind
that the 'green seal,' even more than the
words written, was what bewitched my
mistress, with the evil thing figured upon
it that tempted Eve, and the magic writing
beneath; but you must judge for your-
self of this, from what I shall tell you."
My mistress turned the letter over
very carefully in her hand after she re-
ceived it, and finally, before she broke
the seal, read the superscription aloud :
" To 'Valerie,' care of the post-mas-
ter- at Claireforte, Belle-garde Parish,"
and postmarked"Boston."
" What can it possibly be ?" she asked.
"Some Yankee scheme to get up a
book of poems for nothing by contribu-
tions, for a , benevolent purpose, of
course," said Master Richard, smiling,
with a sort of scorn.
" I feel it is not -this, Richard," she
said, as she broke it open, then grew
silent in the perusal.
Her face flushed all over, dimpled,
sparkled, as she read, to the very end,
then turning, she handed it to her cousin.
" Read it yourself, Richard ; read it
aloud ! It is the most beautiful letter I
ever received in my life, even at the
time when I received many such--the
most poetic; and see what a noble hand-
writing .forms the medium of all these
lovely thoughts. Oh, who could have
written it to me, to me, Richard," clasping
her hands, and speaking as though she
were one of the despised of the earth.
Master Richard took the letter, a{little
coldly, I thought ; then read it aloud, as
she had desired him to do. The music
of his voice suited the words so well
that my ear was filled with delight, al-
though I caught little of their meaning.
I dropped my sewing, and, putting back
my hair, listened with eager attention.
My mistress clasped her hands and laugh-
ed outright-her merry, bird-like laugh I
" See, Richard, how Rena is transfixed.

I


iI
a
i
I
;i

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

16

THE " ROMANCE OF

There must be strange magic in these
mere 'words-words '-as Hamlet call-
ed such-to charm even the child that
can not understand them !"
"Convincing proof, dear coz, on'this
occasion, that the sound is better than
the sense. The4 language is all very
fine, but"--
" But me no buts, Master Richard 1"
she interrupted gayly, " and give me
back my much-abused letter," (extending
her hand at the same moment to receive
it, then placing it in her waistband, next
her heart). " There it shall lie, you
envious, sneering philosopher, until it is
worn to shreds; and for your punish-
ment, I shall not call you into consulta-
tion, fair sir, when I receive another."
" Another, Agle ? Why, with all
your womanly vanity-gratified by this
fulsome piece of flattery, no doubt-you
surely do not mean to answer this letter !
Nay, fortunately, you can not," he adled,
with a look of satisfaction at the sudden
reflection-" for it is anonymous. I
am glad of that, for your own sake."
She made him a profound courtesy.
" Wise oracle," she said; "you need new
spectacles! There was just one little
scrap, perhaps, at the bottom of that
letter, you did not observe, not having
eyes like mine, that promised me an-
other intellectual treat before the moon
should wane, and after that, perhaps
other revelations may come to facilitate
correspondence. What say you to this
programme of mine, Great Solomon ?"
" I appeal from Valerie tipsy (with
praise) to Valerie sobered by reflection,
that is all," said Master Richard, archly,
yet not without a change of color, and
an uncertain expression of the eye that
always came to him when he was
troubled in any way.    "And now,
cousin, I must see about my horse."
" My society is not stable enough for
you, Cousin Zavier, it appears," she said,
trying to appear unconcerned, yet really
much annoyed. " See what a 'pundit'
I am becoming under this new phase of
inspiration 1"
-He was gone, without another word,
or without noticing he efot to. amuse

I
F:,
.J
.y^
1 'r
Ft
C
F 't
w
i

I7

THE GREEN SEAL."
time, looking upon the floor. When she
raised her eyes, I was standing before her.
" What have I done to him, petite,
to enrage him so ? And what in the
world do you stand there for, making
great eyes at me, as if I had committed
some heinous crime ? Go directly, Rena,
and put fresh rose-leaves in my drawers.
Why have you neglected this?    Yet,
stay ; it is too te now ; to-morrow will
do as well. Don't leave me just now."
A pause.
"After all, is it not worse than a sin to
be so pragmatical ?" she asked, turning
away.
" I don't know, mistress," I said, "what
it is to be pragmatical."
She laughed heartily.at my difficulty in
pronouncing the word, which I repeated
again and again after her. "Little goose.
As if I were talking to you. What a
literalist you are, to be sure! Can not
one think aloud, sometimes, in one's own
chamber,.without an eternal echo ?"
I hung my head rebuked. "Come
now," she continued, as if to revive me,
"can you tell me what it is to be prag-
matical---what the long, ugly, conse-
quential word means, Rena ?"
" I will look in the dictionary, mistress,
if you'll tell me how it is spelled,'I said.
She had taught me to do this readily,
and it gave me great delight. "Never
mind the dictionary this time, child
You will not find all the meanings there,
perhaps-all my meanings. To be prag-
matical is to be dry and cross and hate-
ful-to preach, and counsel, and snarl,
and pretend to pray sometimes, and to
spoil every one's pleasures, if possible-
to be a wet blanket, in short-(but you
don't know otherwise than literally what'
that means, I suppose)-in other words,
to lecture, like your Master Richard.
So you understand now, Rena ?"
" Oh, mistress," I said, clasping my
hands in a sort of pious horror of her
behavior that I could not conceal; "how
can you speak so of your own dear cou
sin Richard, who is so good to you and
me-who never-." I stopped aruptly',
frightened when I saw how red she grew,
shie rose, standing quite till, and looking

.  .
' , ,
¢
i .
h
;
'
'  F .
f
i ,
,~
;
-~
f'
'
!
}
i
t
;;
;i
t+
Y
r

L   AL

off, as if to hide her tears from me;  say," as to hand me my letter publicly ?
but I knew they had started, from  the  Don't you know I am  a prisoner of
tone of her voice when she spoke again. state ?" with a bitter smile, "not permitted
" You are right, Rena; lie is as nearly to receive letters even from my mother,
perfect as man ever gets to be, and I am  without previous inspection ?  Would
not worthy to tie the latchet of his shoe."  you deprive me of my only private corres-
So speaking, she was. gone. I well  pondent ?  My spirit of fire-my ariel ?"
knew whither, and I was not surprised,  " Can it be possible, Aglite," he asked
a few moments later, to see her walk-  indignantly, yet in a suppressed voice,
ing down the lemon-walk with Master   "'that his vigilance descends to such
ichard, her hand upon his shoulder, in  injustice?  Your mother's letters investi-
their old affectionate way, so brotherly  gated ? Does she know of this ? Yet, after
and sisterly like; but, by this time, the  all---what difference would it make to him,
letter with the green seal on it lay close if she did ?" He seemed greatly troubled.
against her heart. It was there when    " Yet cousin," he added, after a pause,
I undressed her at bed-time. It was   "none the less do I deem it my duty to
there nearly a month later, when Master  be entirely open in this matter, with you
Richard brought her another.          and yours ; and as I am  made, so far,
Again I remember the occasion on    an unwilling medium, I must not be
which that letter came. She was stand-  compelled to be a clandestine one."
ing on the portico this time, dressed for " Richard, would you kill me ?" It
company, in her embroidered India mus-  was well that my master had gone down
lin, with a little black lace scarf over her toward the lake-shore, by this time, or
shoulders, and a Cape jessamine-flower  he certainly must have heard her and
in her hair and bosom. Ah, madam, she  noticed her agitation.
was beautiful in that dress! My master  "No--no, indeed, Aglae. You know
was giving orders to some of the house  I would give my life to serve you in any
waiters at the steps, and his back was  honorable manner; but I don't feel that
turned to them both when Master Rich-  I am doing right in the sight of God and
ard walked up to her with the letter  man in bringing anonymous letters to you,
closed. with a green seal-as the first  even though they contain no more offen-
had been. He had gone through the     sive matter than barren compliment."
hall, after hitching his horse to the   Her manner changed suddenly.
post at the back door of the house      " It is your duty to deliver them to
as he usually did,'and it was mere acci-  me, sir, and to none else--your duty as
dent that my master did not see him, for  a sworn government officer. I saw a
there was nothing in his manner that  decision of the courts on this point,
was not quite open, as lie gave it into  lately-an accidental coincidence that I
her hand. He was about to make        am glad to have met with.  I demand,
some remark, about the letter itself, prob- henceforth, as my right--my legal right,
ably, when, laying her finger on her lip, that none need gainsay-that my letters
she placed it hastily in the folds of her  be delivered into my own hand."  She
surplus waist; then, walking toward the  spoke very fast--she was angry, now;
end of the gallery where I was seated, her eyes flashed. He smiled at her ve-
she signaled to him to follow her.    hemence.
He did so, and for a time stood beat-  " When did you grow such a stickler
ing his boot with his riding-whip, look- for legal rights, dear coz ?  Have I not
ing down and waiting to hear what she  heard you very often rebuke the law
had to say to him, with a perplexed  as tyrannous, unworthy of a civilized
countenance, I thought. She, too, seemed age, behind the times-especially as far
embarrssed.as women's rights are concerned ?"
She was the first to break silence. " This is an amendment, Richard, and
" How could you be so imprudent, so care- I mean to take advantage of it."
less of my feelings, Richard," I heard her " In order to do so, Aglae, your


18        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

cherished secrecy will have to be compro-
mised. Your proceedings against the
postmaster of Claireforte, must be pub-
lic, and in open court. In the mean
time, he has matters pretty much in his
own hands. So, take your farewell to-day
of the unknown knight of the' Green
Seal.' He comes to you no more 1"
She trembled ; she turned pale.
" What do you mean to do, Richard ?"
she asked, in a piteous tone.
"1To turn back the letters," lie replied,
sternly," to him who sent them, through
the postmaster of Boston, with the as-
surance that 'Valerie' will in the future
receive no such communications; or, to
let them drift to the dead-letter office-
which would you prefer ?"
I never thought my Master Richard
cruel until that moment. He must have
known how he was harrassing her- Yet
he looked wholly unconcerned.
She laid her trembling hand upon his
arm, and looked full into his face.
" If you were to do either, I should hate
you, Richard Zavier," she said, through
her clenched teeth, still looking at him.
I saw him shrink and shiver in turn.
"Would this be possible for you,
Aglae ?" he asked, " would it be possi-
ble ?"  He spoke like one in a dream.
Her only reply was a short, bitter laugh,
and, leaving him abruptly, she advanced
to meet her. husband, now returning to
the steps with a gloomy look. She saw
in a moment what was vexing him.
"1They will hardly come to-night, Mr.
Maurepas, I think," she observed ; " it
looks so stormy, and the lake seems in
such commotion already." One could
see it very plainly from the portico--a
wide, clear sheet of water, usually calm,
but broken into white caps now-sur-
rounded by plantations, many of them
quite out of sight, however-i)deed, miles
away. " I trust they will not come, if that
cloud keeps its promise," she continued,
" for their own sakes," and she pointed
to one in the far west, small, black, rag-
ged, yet dense, and defined as though a
piece of broken slate had been suspended
from the heavens.
" Your chief hope,'after all, is, that I
may be disappointed, no doubt. As to

your anxiety for their safety, it does not
amount to much, I take it," said Mr.
Maur pas, sullenly ; "but, I tell you,
madam, they will come, unless hell hides
them to-night ; so make ready-and hark
ye, Aglae, ice the wines this time ; don't
forget it as you did last week, as if no
one needed ice but yourself. Ice enough
you have at heart, I should think, to
keep you from thirsting for it," he mutter-
ed; "but go, have the tables set out at
once. We shall play late and commence
early. Will you join us, Richard Zavier?''
Elevating his voice in these last words,
with a sneer that Master Richard took
no notice of, for still he stood like a stone
where my mistress had left him, with his
arms folded on the balustrade, looking
out on space,-as if he saw something no
one else could see, coming from afar.
Madam, I have thought, sometimes,
since then, in looking back over all
things that happened between then and
now, that perhaps Master Richard had
a sorrowful glimpse, at that moment, of
what lay before my mistress-" second
sight" some people call it. Any how,
he never seemed exactly the same happy
man afterward-to me, at least, who
observed him so closely.
My mistress did not go down to the
great dining-hal-seldol used except
for such occasions-to superintend mat-
ters, as she usually did, on that evening ;
but, giving her directions clearly and
decidedly to the principal waiter, Julius
Strong, she shut herself up in her room
at once, taking me with her.
" I have something here, Rena," she
said, as she pressed her hand to her
bosom, " to make amends for all. A rose
has sprung up in my wilderness. Let
me enjoy it. Now light the myrtle wax-
taper, petite" (the closed shutters made
it too dark to read, though still early),
" and hold it close-close to me, while I
read my precious letter. See, Rena,
there is the envelop, child ! you may
look at the seal, if you choose, and see
what you can make of it," and she flung
it to me, over the table by which she sat.
" Oh, mistress," I said, setting down
the taper (in my excitement, " it is a
dreadful green snake, with its tail in its

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

mouth-a snake, just like that master
Richard killed last week, I believe. It
makes my blood creep to look at it."
" Foolish little creature ! It is the
emblem of eternity, nothing more. But,
how do you suppose I can read, with
the taper a yard off, and with your silly
interruptions ? Be silent, stand close to
me ; shade the light with your hand, so
as to throw every ray upon the paper, and
to keep them from seeing the light outside,
and look steadily at me, if you will look ;
for, Rena," with her sudden smile, "I
am entering my precious kingdom now.
Behold ! I am putting on my crown."
I felt quite awed at these words, and
was as still as a mouse, thereafter, watch-
ing her beautiful face, as she had bidden
me do (though, glancing up, I could see
no crown on her head), now covered
with smiles, now quivering with emo-
tion; and hearing, with amazement, her
broken exclamations of delight and sur-
prise, as she read sheet after sheet of
the long, closely-written, sweet-smelling
letter, quite to the end.
Then she pressed it repeatedly to her
lips, her breast, with her eyes uplifted as
though she were mutely thanking heaven
for the possession of such a treasure.
"More beautiful, if possible, than the
other "-she said, at last; "but, not for
you, this time, oh ! cruel Richard, is its
perusal. Never again shall mortal eyes
come between me and my happiness !
' 'Egeria!' he calls me his ' Egeria !'-
implores an answering sign. Who am I,
to dare to withhold it from my souls
sovereign ?"  Then she mused. " Yes,
yes, I will be happy, and in my own
way. My body is in bonds and must
remain so; but, thank. God, my soul is
free ! And what a spirit from afar has
taken shelter under its spreading wings
at last! What a great, noble intellect--
what a soul of fire has vailed itself in
these pages ! What must the reality be
-what, indeed ! But, of that, let me
never dare to dream !" So she spoke, so
~, she wrote; and, day after day, she would
read aloud to me-or rather, to herself--
the diary she kept, in which the progress
of this " spiritual passion," as she called it,
was set down, in words of flame.

19

But now she called to me to fetch
her little sandalwood note box; and,
taking from it her mother's letters, she
placed them elsewhere for safety, and
droped into its satin-lined depths two
fresh ones-each  in its green-sealed
envelope; then locking it, she slipped
the key on her watch-chain, and smiled
again as she gave me the box. " That is
my treasure chest, Rena," she said, gayly.
" There, place it in the armoire, and tell
no one what it contains, as you value
my life, child. And now, while I have
a moment of time, speak your poem
once again. I did not listen to it this
morning, as I should have done; and
you must have it perfectly when master
Richard comes to-night."-
The task she had set me was a little
hymn, called " There is nothing true
but Heaven," and I declaimed it to her
entire satisfaction. Once a week a les-
son of this sort was exacted from me by
my young teacher; and often, as I lie
awake at night, those childish lessons
come back quite clearly to my mind, as
if written on the wall ; and ever with
them returns the light of those dear eyes,
now faded forever.
But I am rambling again from my
story. Let me tell you what happened
that night, as it had something to do
with what came afterwards, and roused
my mistress greatly, at the time, from
all selfish dreams and considerations.
Just as I had finished my recitation, a
peal of thunder 'shook the house ; the
lightning glared through the closed jalou-
sies ; the.taper fluttered and died out in
the blast, and the storm begun in all its
equinoxial violence.
My mistress went out presently, either
to seek the protection of her husband
anil master Richard, or to persuade them
to come in and close the house against
the approaching hurricane, I know not
which. She found them together, sit-
ting silently on the portico, Watching
the foaming lake and gathering black-
ness with an anxious and gloomy ex-
pression on either face. Later they all
came in to the breakfast-rotom, whither
she had sent me 'with orders to Julius
the waiter, and the tea-table had been

WI

.k-


.,
"
.
F
1
f

laid, when they entered, with the beauti-
ful decorated china.,
" Could you not have waited a while,
Aglite," asked my master, snappishly,
" when you knew there were guests ex-
pected ?" '
" I thought they might be delayed,"
she answered-" or-or "-hesitating-
"not coming at all, in view  of the
threatening tempest, and I hoped a cup
of coffee, or tea, or chocolate might cheer
you both. I am sure you seem to need
cheering," she spoke affectionately, look-
ing from one to the other; but neither
face relaxed ; no one spoke further.
No one ate a mouthful.   A cup of
coffee was hastily drained by my master ;
but master Richard and my mistress just
tasted theirs. Both were ashen pale, as
wilder and wilder rose the tempest with-
out, and the house trembled and groaned
-under the great pressure of the driving
north wind.
" Did you ice the wines, Julius ?"
growled my master. " I suppose that
has never been thought of, and they will
be as hot as the devil, until midnight."
"Yes, sah ; mistress sent me to do
dat an hour ago."
"Indeed ! wonderful to relate ! There
are times, it seems, when it suits you to
remember, madam !"
" There are times and thim gs I am
not permitted to forget, Leon' replied
my mistress, mournfully.
"You put out the, tables, of course,
Julius; but have you lit the candles
yet ?" he questioned.
"No master; I thought I would wait."
Thought 1 who told you to think,
sirrah ?" thundered my master, stamp-
ing his foot imperiously. " You know
that, wet as they are, or will be,
they will plunge right down there for
dry garments. Are guests of mine to
grope in the darkness, like bats ? Go
instantly "-and he used an .oath, again
stamping his foot and shaking his fist
angrily, "and light every candle in the
saloon. Do you hear me, you villain ?"
No one dared to oppose him, and the
order was carried out, useless as it seemed.
There, in the great arched dining-
room, with its pavement of white and

black marble, the gaming tables were set
out, with all the counter-boxes on them;
the wines in the beaufet were in ice ;
the cigars piled on silver salvers, with
matches at hand; the candles lit-all was
complete, except the expected guests,
who came not ; until the ice had melted
from the \vines that no lips of theirs
might ever drain, and the candles had
flared out almost to the socket, that no
eyes of theirs might ever see; for never
again in life did they enter the house of
" Maurepas ;" and a cruel feast, indeed,
was spread that night on the great dining-
tables, hastily set together for the oc-,
casion-a feast for death-the bodies of
the three drowned gentlemen !  The
storm was quite over by three o'clock in
the morning, but the driving rain con-
tinued, with the chill wind from  the
north. The cold was intense, it seemed
to us, so suddenly had it come after the
heat of that sultry day; and all but my
master and myself were still sitting up
when Frederick Tanque, my step-father,
came to the hall door.  He knocked
very gently, calling at the same time, in
a sad voice, to master Richard ; but I was
aroused, and went out with my mistress
to the portico to hear what his news was.
My master still seemed to sleep heavily
on the sofa, on which he had thrown
himself, half buried in pillows.
"Go back, Aglae, I implore you," said
Master Richard, in an agitated voice,
" this is no place for you." She obeyed
him mutely; but I remained unnoticed.
" Now, speak you, Frederick ; what
have you to tell us ? Did the boat go
down ?" he asked, hoarsely.
"I fear so, master Richard."
Are they all lost, Frederick, think
you? have you seen any signs of this,
and can it be ?", Frederick hesitated a
moment, then spoke, in a clear whisper ;
I shall never forget its strange distinct-
ness, and how it thrilled me :
" The bodies have drifted to shore,
master Richard."
" Oh, God!   All three, Frederick ?"
he gasped.
" All four, master Richard."
The next moment a hand was on his
throat.

It was my master, whom we supposed
still asleep in the breakfast-room.
" Don't dare to tell me, you accursed
villain," he muttered, " that the boy was
one of them ! Unsay those words, Fred-
erick Tanque ! or, choke until you die !"
"For shame, Mr. Maurepas," said
master Richard, interposing firmly, and
removing his hand, which fell motion-
less by his side. " Hear the truth like
a man, and conceal it like a gentleman."
" Speak, Frederick," said my master,
hoarsely.
"He is with them, sir," said my step-
father ; " I am grieved to have to say so,
for I loved him like my own; but bear
it, master, like a Christian ; and see, my
mistress is behind you," he added,
hastily.
She came forward, weeping bitterly,
and wringing her hands. I tried to
draw her back, but could not.   My
master was walking the portico in the
darkness now, like one distracted.
We could only trace Frederick Tan-
que by his lantern, as he strode away,
followed by master Richard, who struck
after him into the pitch darkness, guided
by his light.
"God save their sinful souls," I heard
him mutter, as he rushed clown the steps,
and then was lost to, sight. And still,
the cold north wind was blowing, and
the bitter north rain driving in my
face. At last we went into the house,-
as master harshly bade us do, and crept
together close in the breakfast-room, on
the broad., sofa, covered with the same
shawl, and weeping, more from sympa-
thy than sorrow ; for, after all, what were
any of the victims to my mistress-M.
Le Maitre, at the head of them ? Noth-
ing, less than nothing ; yet, out of our1
common humanity we mourned for them,E
and my trouble had cause to be deeper
.than hers, though I scarcely realized this
yet, matters had passed so hurriedly.]
.About an nour later my master came
,in banging the front-door fiercely after ^
him, and walking straight to the side-
board, on which a decanter of brandy  i
was sitting, he poured out a gobletful
and drunk it off, then turned to my
mistress, with a dreadful smile.

"Are you satisfied, at last, madam?
Are your prayers 'to the Virgin fully
answered ?" he asked, in a cold, unnatu-
ral voice. " They are all dead ; you
hear ?. your enemies are all dead ! Le
Maitre, and Gargaroux, and Eugene Mal-
let-all three ' drowned-drowned,' as
the bard of Avon has it," laughing bit-
terly. "Ah, madam, you see I, too, can
quote upon occasions."
"Leon, these taunts are too dreadful
at such a time. Forbear, I entreat you,"
cried my mistress, sobbing bitterly.
"I begin to believe, myself, in the effi-
cacy of prayer," lie went on in a sneering
way, "especially, when directed against
those we hate. And you hated them.
Why ?   Simply because they were my
friends."  He laughed long. and loud
at this sally, with a terribly hysterical
violence.
I was dreadfully frightened ; but my
mistress, greatly shocked, wept on pite-
ously, without offering further remon-
strance against such unjustifiable treat-
ment, yet, without seeming afraid~at - all.
Indeed, when was she ever afraid ? -
" So, now, you have me all to your-
self, madam," lie continued, "as you
have wished so long to have me, to hate
and torture to the top -of your bent ; for -
the comrades of my life are all gone,
and you have given me no children to
supply their places ; and what love was
in me is dead from this henceforth;
mark me, dead, with the poor frail crea-
ture, whose life grew out of mine, and
who clung to me beyond all else."
She did not understand him alto-
gether ; but, rising, she extended her
arms to him with true emotion.
" Oh, Leon," she said, "Oh, my hus-
band, forgive me if I have wronged you,
even in thought, and suffer me, still suf-
fer me, to comfort, to love you."
That moment was a pivot, madam,
I have since thought, on which their fate
was turning. It was an occasion lost.
He pushed her rudely away, struck his .
hend with his clenched fist, then shook
.t fiercely in her face, without touching
her, however. She shrieked faintly, stag-
gering back.
" Stop your devilish howling," he

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

THE ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

21

20


THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."      23

.,
t ,  '
s
1
i
{
t
i
x

thundered forth, " if you don't want to
madden me, and dry those cursed croco-
dile tears before I come again, you and
your yellow imp, or, by heavens, madam,
it shall fare the worse with both of you."
Then, cramming on his hat and throw-
ing the shawl about him, which he tore
from us,, lie burst from the apartment,
and plunged into the cold rainy dawn,
down in the direction of the lake shore.
He met the men near there, assisted by
Master Richard, bearing the bodies to
the basement banqueting-room, and so
turned back. My mistress had locked-
herself in her own chamber, partly in-
dignant, partly in pity for my condition,
for I was terrified exceedingly, and great-
ly grieved as well, and we heard nothing
more until morning.'
The day broke clear and cold, with
the norther still blowing fiercely. My
mistress went out at sunrise, leaving me
asleep, and found Master Richard stand.
ing out on.the portico, with a telescope
in his hand. My master had been quiet-
ed, by this time, and was slumbering in
his own room after great excitement,
caused partly, it was thought, by the fiery
liquor of which he had drunk so deeply
during the night.
" Look through this glass, Aglite," he
said to her, "and tell me what you see.
My short-sighted eyes may have deceived
me." She told my mother all this after-
ward in my presence, for, as I said, she
had left me sleeping.
" I see a floating log, Richard, with a
man lying on it, either asleep or dead,
or is it the keel of a boat that he is
clinging to-an overturned boat ?  No !
he is not dead, only exhausted. He
moves his hand ; lie tries to wave a
handkerchief that he holds, but he has
not strength, Richard, lie  has  not
strength," she cried, "and he will perish
miserably."
He took the glass from her nerveless
hand, and gazed long and earnestly.
"I see every thing now," he said, " as
plainly as you do, Agla; but the man
shall not perish if we have time to get
a boat manned to reach him before lie
loses his hold. I will go to him myself."
Then Master Richard went right to the

boat-house, sent for Frederick Tanque to
steer, and for two rowers, and when I
got down to the'shore, where my mistress,
was waiting, they were all ready to go
out after the exhausted man.
" God bless you, Richard," she said,
as he turned to grasp her hand before
he stepped into the boat; "you are al-
ways first in good works." Then she
threw her -arms about him and kissed
him fondly, as I had never seen her do
before. I knew she was thinking of her
ill-humor to him the night previous, and
sorry for it, as she ought to have been;
and he felt this, too, I am sure, for the
tears stood in his eyes, as lie pushed off
from  shore. I could not help crying,
too, from sympathy with him and her,
and saying, as she had done, with up-
lifted hands,
" God bless you, my dear Master Rich-
ard."
The lake was still rough, and the
progress of the boat was slow; but we
watched anxiously for the deliverance of
the sufferer, and had the satisfaction, at
last, to see him lifted into 'the boat, and
to hail its safe return to shore, with the
poor haltdead form they had lifted from
the wreck, now helpless as an infant, and
only half-conscious.
" Great heavens ! It is Claude Ro-
quette," said my mistress, as she looked
into his wan face, then poured reviving
drops into his blackened lips.
" Lose no time here, Aglite. Let us
bear him to the house. Give me the
flask. Have blankets warned, a bed
prepared, women ready to rub him by
the time we reach you. Go before us,-
cousin; we may save him yet."
All this was done in a wonderfully
short space of time, and poor M. Ro-
quette was laid in a warm bed and sur-
rounded by attendants, before most per-
sons could have given the mere necessary
orders.  For my mistress thought of
every thing at once, when the hour of
need came, though she took her own
time usually, and was even careless and
forgetful sometimes.
About breakfast-time my master rous-
ed up from his stupor and came into the
sitting-room, where. a cheerful pine-wood

fire was crackling and throwing out a
pleasant, balmy smell. The coffee was
hot-every thing he liked best on the
table ; but anger and gloom were fixed
upon his features.
My mistress was sitting at the head of
the table, with her hand upon the silver
coffee-pot, when he entered, (I can see her
yet), as calm and unconcerned as if noth-
ing had happened. I was at my usual
post behind her chair. Master Richard
was leaning against the mantel-piece,
glancing over the "Delta." I don't know
why I think of all these little things to-
day, or why I trouble you with such
small details ; but the picture rises be-
fore me just as I saw it then, as clearly
as if it were painted ; and I remember
that it seemed to me' so hard-hearted
that some should be eating and drinking,
while others lay dead and cold in the
basement below, and poor M. Roquette
was wrestling sore with death in the ad-
joining chamber.  But such contrasts
must occur, or life would not be life;
and it was all right, I suppose.
When all were seated, and the coffee
had been served, my master begun.
I understand, madam,"   he said,
" that you have a stranger within your
gates this morning, and have been play-
ing Good Samaritan, and al that sort of
thing! Ye gods, how I hate hypocrisy !
Richard Zavier, you might have caught
better fish this morning, than Roquettes,
I am thinking."
Master Richard murmured something
about " Christian duty," I forget what ;
but my mistress, fixing her great eyes
upon her husband's face, merely said,
"Let us be thankful, Leon, that any
one was saved from that doomed boat."
My master sprung to his feet, and
"i    brought down his fist with a great oath,
upon the table.
Do you mean to say," he roared,
"that he, too, was in the Petrel?  Do
you mean to say that the God you wor-
ship, or pretend to, suffered those "-and
lie pointed downward, toward the room
in which they were lying dead--" to go
down to death, and saved this worm--one
wretch, that can not even swim ?"
"Such was his will, M. Maurepas,"

2 2       THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

said Richard Zavier, sternly. " It is not
for such as you or I to question it."
" How came this creature in the so-
ciety of gentlemen ?" he went on, wildly.
" What - had he to do with the Petrel?
Why did they not heave out their Jonas
upon the waters, when the tempest came?
The base-born hound ! his presence sunk
the boat, I' doubt not. Curse him, curse
him, now and eternally I"
Madam, these things shock you; but,
how can I give'you a just idea of M.
Maurepas, otherwise than by giving you
such details?  There is not much more
of this to tell. My master rose from
the table,,and commenced walking the
room, wildly raving about poor Mr. Ro-
quette and his low origin.
" A vile overseer's son, to lie in the
best chambers at Maurepas ! This is
what I get for bringing beggars to pre-
side over my household ! Misery loves
company, they say. Le Maitre dead in
the cellar-Roquette alive in the rose-
wood chamber ! God, can it be borne"
Then he laughed bitterly.
"Ah, madam, he was not thinking of
Le Maitre or-the other two when he raved
thus, as you shall hear presently. I wqs
astonished to see how Master Richard
bore with him ; but he knew every thing.
as we did not, and pitied him, even while
he condemned.
" Why was not Roquette taken to the
overseer's 'house, madam ?" he asked
abruptly of my mistress. ".The house his
father used to occupy, and was kicked
out of by me, was surely good enough
for him. And why have you been med-
dling in his recovery, as though it were
any interest or business of yours? I de-
mand an answer, madam, and a satisfac-
tory one."
"Mr. Maurepas I I have done no more
than my duty in trying to restore Claude
Roquette., All ranks are alike, at a time.
like this and in sight of God ; nor have
I ever, at any time, heard or known
aught of this young man that was un-
worthy of the first gentleman in the land.
Be satisfied with this answer, I beg; I
have no other to give ; and let the un.-
pleasant subject drop."
" You are an insolent fool, mattarii


24        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

he muttered ; "and you, Richard Zavier,
are a fanatical one ! There, take my
parting opinion of you both, and make
the best of it. And, mark ye, let this
Claude Roquette be removed from here as
soon as may be, alive or dead, or-"
He went out, grumbling threats, and
strode down again toward the lake-shore.
Taking advantage of his absence, and
that of my mistress and Master Richard,
who went again to Mr. Roquette's room,
whither they forbade me to follow them,
I glided down the corridor and descended
the broad flight of stairs that led to the
basement halls below.
It was with a trembling hand that I
opened the door of that deathchamber.
There they lay, all three, wrapped in
their shrouding sheets, as my mother and
the other women had placed them, with
their hair still moist from the deadly lake-
waters.
M. Le Maitre wore a smile on his
grim, handsome face, and his jet-black
curls lay close and heavily on his mar-
ble-white forehead. He was called the
handsomest man in the parish. M. Gar-
garoux was fearfully changed ; his own
wife would never have known him. M.
Eugene Mallet, the youngest, and the
best of the three-where all were bad-
seemed to be sleeping tranquilly. Poor
fellow ! he was to have been married in
the coming week, and the shock of his
death nearly killed Miss Amelie Landry.
But, apart from these, on a, low sofa
(one of those on which the tired game-
sters were in the habit of sleeping off
their excesses, after morning broke, and
the night's play was over), lay the young
Pedro, the quadroon boy--him I had
stolen down to take leave of-him to
whom my master had referred so fiercely.
He was a gentle and beautiful crea-
ture, a year or two older than myself,
and had been my play-mate since I could
first remember. He belonged to M. Le
Maitre, who had once lived with my
master, in their bachelor days, and this
boy's mother-the slave of the first-
had been their joint housekeeper. She
had been dead a long time, and my
master and M. Le Maitre had been hag-
gling for years over the price of the boy,

whom my master was determined to
have some day, I heard him say, if it
cost him half his fortune. He was fond
of Pedro, and kept him half his time at
Maurepas, with Le Maitre's consent.
But, as I have said, the last never could
or would agree to receive any reasonable
sum for him, and, partly from obstinacy
my master hung back from the purchase,
which he was still resolved to consummate
before Pedro should be grown. Had he
been my own brother, I could not have
loved him better ; and I was kneeling by
-and crying over the insensible body, with
my head on my hands, and parting back
sometimes the damp tangled hair, when I
saw master come hastily in, and shut the
door and lock it after him.
Fortunately, the room was dim, and lie
did not perceive me as he entered ; but
my heart was in my throat, and I crept
under the sofa as quickly and quietly as
possible, and lay trembling there while
his feet were almost touching me, for,
passing the rest without notice, he came
straight to the body of Pedro.
The sounds that reached me from
above were strange and appalling-more
like the low howls of a wild beast in
pain than a human creature in trouble.
My master had thrown himself on the
corpse, and was kissing it with frantic
eagerness. I could hear this; and when
I looked at it again, the cold waxen-like
face was wet with his tears.
" Oh ! Pedrq," he murmured ; " my
boy, my poor, sacrificed boy ! the only
thing that ever loved me except your
dead mother.   There you lie, like a
stone.  Make one sign, my son-but one
-then I will believe every thing the
priests tell me. Say, can you hear your
father ? Can you forgive him, that he
suffered you so long in other hands ?
Or, is it all over with you my boy-all
over with you, now and eternally."
There was much more, but I remem-
ber this only distinctly. After that his
voice was choked again with sobs and
curses. This was the first time I ever
saw my master exhibit human feeling;-
but all ended in a gloomy silence, and
presently he went out, banging the door
after him, and I heard his step grow

fainter as it traversed the corridor and
then passed out into the garden.
He was going down to the lake-shore,
as I found later, to meet the boats that
were coming with the friends of the poor
dead gentleien, to take them and Pedro
away for burial.
As soon as I could get out with safety,
I ran to my mistress, by this time in her
own room, to communic te to her all I had-
seen and heard. She w s greatly moved.
How   strange I never suspected this
. "       before," she said; "and yet there was
certainly a resemblance, now that I think
of it-and such an attachment. Unrea-
sonable it might have seemed to me, but
for my own fondness for you, Rena."
Then she mused, shaking her head
piteously, and shedding silent tears.
Rena," she said, suddenly, " you can
keep your master's secret, I hope, as you
have kept some of mine. Nay, you must
keep it, or I will never love -or trust
you again. Remember that you have
stolen it, Rena, so to speak, and you must
bury it deep, deep as Pedro in a grave."
I understood her perfectly, and bent
my head before her, and kissed her hand
for all reply, and she was satisfied.
"Poor Leon, lie suffers," she said after
a time. " Oh ! would to God I dared to
comfort him. I would give any thing in
the world for such a privilege. My duty,
certainly, if nothing more."
" Would you give up your letters with
the green seal, mistress ?" I asked, grave-
ly, impelled by childish curiosity-not
impertinence. It was very daring I felt
V      the next moment.
She bent her great, glowing eyes on
me, as if to fathom my motive, before
she answered,
" Yes, in a moment, child. But, what
business is that of yours ?  You must
never dare again to question me on any
subject, Rena."
She was greatly agitated, I saw.
" I will go" she said at last, " and
see what I can do for him. They have
borne the bodies away by this time, I
suppose, and lie must be very wretched.
Come with me, Rena; or, stay-it is still
very chilly, I believe ; follow me with
my shawl. &amp; I shall need it."

I was at her heels by the time she
reached the portico, with  her great
crimson cashmere on my arm. Master
Richard was still with Claude Roquette,
who now needed constant medical atten-
tion.
The bodies were being placed in the
boats by Frederick Tanque, Julius and
the other men, aided by sorrowing
friends. One small boat remained, how-
ever, moored lower down than the rest,
in which a little, old, odd-looking man
was seated, gray, and yellow, and snuffy,
with his hat off, and with eyes almost
bleared with weeping, which he wiped
constantly on his red bandana hand-
kerchief. I can see him yet, just as he
sat there-our gentle old overseer, whom
all the slaves had loved, but who had
been dismissed with great harshness, for
this very cause every one of them
thought. It was old .M. Roquette, who
had come to learn the fate of his dear
and only son, but who had been forbid-
den t9 land by my master, and denied all
satisfaction as to the condition of Master
Claude.
When he saw my mistress standing on
the steps of the portico, he extended his
hands in a mute, appealing way that was
very affecting ; but if he said any thing,
we could not hear it, with that dreadful
wind still blowing.
My mistress did not hesitate one
moment-that was her way, madam.
When she moved, she was quick as
thought to act, and fearless as flame.
Snatching her shawl from me, and throw-
ing it around her shoulders, she flew
down, bare-headed as she was, to the lake
shore. I followed her as fast, trying to
pluck her gown and draw her back, for I
knew nothing would exasperate my mas-
ter more than such interference.
The boats had pushed off when we
gained the shore-all but old M. Ro-
quette's, which lay rocking and bounding
on the unquiet water. My master was
cursing and abusing the old man vio-
lently.
." You old gray-headed scoundrel," he
cried, " be off, before I thrash your feeble
life out of your miserable, shriveled body.
No man shall transgress my orders, nor

40

THE ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."        25


26        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

0

f

l
S
It
r,
n

go unpunished ; and, as to your soi
when he dies--if not dead already--h
carcass shall be sent to you. Now, tak
to your oars in a minute, or- Ha
madam, you here ? You seem omniprec
ent to-day, really."
She did not regard him any more tha
if lie had not spoken, but stepped riglh
on to the boat, and stood so near the gun
wale that the water lapped her feet.
She was perfectly splendid that day
still dressed in her white robe and scar
let shawl, with her black hair flying in
the wind, her crimson cheeks, her flash
ing eyes, that gave out such red light
sometimes, and her haughty, outstretched
hand, waving back all interference.
Old Mr. Roquette crept feebly toward
her, wailing like a woman. She leaned
forward and clasped his hand, with such
a noble, affectionate grace, such a beam-
ing smile, that it did my heart good.
" Don't cry, Mr. Roquette," she said.
" Mr. Claude is doing well ; he willlive--
Dr. Richard Zavier says so-and I will
be his nurse by day and night, if needful,
until he is restored to you. Don't you
believe me, Mr. Roquette ?" seeing that
the old man shook his head doubtfully.
Ah t madam," he said in his broken
way, "you are one angelle!  You mean
to comfort me, I know ; but don't mock
my hopes, for God's sake !"
And again he raised his withered
hands, and tried to clasp them together-
but they trembled so he could not.
"Mr. Roquette, do you see this ?"
She had drawn her crucifix from her
bosom--the emblem of her faith and his.
" By this holy cross I swear to you that
what I have said is truth."
My master had stood like one rooted
to the spot until this moment. Now he
sprung forward, and, seizing her arm,
dragged her away, darting a terrible look
over his shoulder, with the word "be-
gone " flung toward old Mr. Roquette,
coupled with a curse.
I trembled for her safety ; but when
they reached the portico, his brutal mood
seemed relaxed, for, loosing his hold on her
shoulder, lie pushed'her away--anid turn-
ing into the breakfast-room, lay there all
day, his face buried among the sofa pillows. I

I I

a, Toward evening my mistress went to
is him with kind and loving intentions,
:e carrying a cup of coffee in her hand, by
t  way of excuse for her intrusion.
s- He raised himself up fiercely, as she
entered, gazed at her long and fixedly,
n then striking the cup from her hand, lay
t down again with a muttered curse.
- I dared not gather up the fragments
then ; but, withdrawing from the room
with my mistress, we went at once to
the chamber of Monsieur Roquette, where
she commenced that arduous watch that
- lasted many days, for a nervous fever
t  had set in, and with that poor delicate
young man it was almost as fierce a strug-
gle now between life and death as had
been waged in the overturned boat.
I    My master never mentioned Mr. Ro-
quette's name again, but maintained a
moody silence, while he remained at Mau-
repas, ashamed of his conduct, perhaps,
or absorbed in his own grief and disap-
pointment. The behavior of my mis-
tress toward him at this time was more
than commonly kind and respectful, but
it seemed to make no impression upon
him. He rarely noticed her at all, not
even to sneer, and gave himself up to
gloomy abstraction.
As soon as it was possible to remove
him, Master Richard conveyed M. Ro-
quette to his own room, at Claireforte, and
there attended him, with the assistance of
his father, until he was quite strong and
hale again. The poor young man tried
to express his thanks to my mistress for
all her kindness, the night before he left
us, but failed to do more than kiss her
hand devoutly, and bathe it with his tears.
All he could stammer out was a
prayer that God might permit him to do
something to serve her in return--" some-
thing, any thing 1"'
" That time may come sooner than we
think, M. Roquette," she said, gravely ;
" but in the interval, rest assured that
your recovery, and the thought of your
father's joy have already more than re-
paid any efforts of mine." In parting
lie hung a gay rosary around my neck,'
and promised me a string of gold beads
for New Year's. They came ; I have
them yet. Each one outweighs a half

If
ryf
 4
i rr "t
. Ul
r.  ,
",iij
ice;#4f
' 7
ti
t kl 2~
L'    f
+a3  i
t Y+
yrJi{4+f
tit
Vi
' 4 }
Pr :NLY
"te4    t
rf5
ti

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."                        27
eagle, and is beautifully chased and  for his young -sisters, and went to live
wrought. There were just enough to   upon it, resolved to think chiefly of their
circle my slender, childish throat.  advantage in the conduct of his affairs.
He meant still to keep up his practice,
and leave all the proceeds of the planta-
tion to accumulate for their use when
they should be grown; and I heard him
P ART     IIIsay that he made more in the third year
CrRCUMSTANCES interrupted the narra- by his medical visits, than his overseer
tion of Rena, and left me an intervening realized from the sugar sales, so popular
night of thought and conjecture before  and so-widely known had he become.
she resumed its thread.                 He did not come to Maur pas before
Light was gradually breaking over the  going-home. The blow was so sudden,
character of one I had for years supposed it quite overpowered him for a time, and
to have been an unprincipled intruder on he thought chiefly of the poor orphan
the sacred rights of others, and pity for the  sisters deprived so unexpectedly ofortheir
noble yet undisciplined youth of Agile  tender parent. In leaving Claireforte, he
Maurypas had already been half substi-  empowered young M. Roquette to con-
tuted for the unmeasured censure I had  duct his business there until his return;
previously lavished on her memory.    and, six weeks later, he came back and
Those letters with the green seal account. got him installed formally as postmaster,
ed for much never explained before. Not and paid down the money as a long loan
one of these had ever met my gaze, al- for the goods in the store near the steam-
though a package of her own still lay  boat landing-the only store in the vii-
among my papers--impetuous, beautiful, lage.. Besides, he presented old Mr. Ro-
poetic, wrong in principle, yet pure in  quette with the small-frame tenement he
actual expression, which well might have had occupied so long himself, containing
pointed out such precedents had my mind three good rooms and surrounded by a
been less partial and prejudiced, my per- pleasant picketed yard just as full of
ceptions perfectly unbiased.          orange and lemon trees as it could
Let this pass for the 'present. Next  hold. - There he had kept his office and
morning the quadroon returned, and it  drug store, living in his modest way,
was not long before she was once more  alone, with no servant but his man
launched on the tide of narrative, not to Deemah, (my husband, madam, later, as
be again interrupted, I hoped, until all  you know-a fine-looking, copper-color-
was revealed.                         ed man, with good habits and Christian
She began abruptly, contrary to her  teachings, and at rest now, I trust, with
custom: Soon after Mr. Claude-Roquette's  his Maker.) You never saw two such
recovery, Madame Eugenie Clairmont    happy creatures as those Roquettes were
died very suddenly of disease of the heart. from that time forth. They had French
She was Master Richard's mother, and  ways and wanted but little. They were
left to his care her three young daughters careful, sober and industrious, so that
by a second marriage, and the small plan- they felt rich where an American would
tation she had lived upon-his always  have thought himself poor. The old
by right, since it had been his father's.  man cultivated his little gardensand rais-
M. Clairmont had spent all of her  ed the finest vegetables, besides prepar-
own fine fortune before his death ; and  ing all their simple meals himself, and
though Master Richard ownedd the place helping sometimes m the store. Many
his mother lived on, and the fifty -or a bouquet of queer French flowers, such
"sixty slaves that worked it, he never had as we never eared to grow at Maurepas--
asked for a dollar of the proceeds after lie pinks, larkspurs, ragged robins, double
received his medical education, nor even marigolds and the like, raised from seeds
spoken of it as his own property. Even -he sent to my mistress, and she always
,now he felt that he held it partly in trust placed them in water, and cherished

1i


28             THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."
them as though they had been ever so  and smiling, and stammering, as was his
rare and beautiful, for she would say to way whenever moved in any unusual
me :                                  degree. He could hardly get out his
''"Every one of these had its root in  words of welcome; but, assisting her to
old M. Roquette's heart-a richer soil  alight, left me to get off on the stile,
than we can boast otat Maurepas, Rena,  and hitch both horses and follow into
for all our heliotropes or jasmine."  the store. They were standing at the
" A. beautiful and charitable sentiment, 'counter when I went in; my mistress was
Rena."                                holding a letter he had just given her,
" Yes, madam, she was full of such.  and handing him  one in return.   I
About a week after Mastei' Richard's de-  heard her say: " It is a literary whim
parture, and while my master was absent of mine, M. Roquette, and you must
on a visit to M. Landry, one of our card- indulge it and keep my secret." He
playing lake neighbors, not to return, we bowed, too full to reply, happy to serve
knew, until the following day, my mistress her in any way. It was the first time
ordered the bay filly and gray pony to he had seen her since his recovery. As
be saddled, and set off toward sundown, soon as I approached, she begun to ask
with me as escort, for Claireforte."  for goods.-
" You will have a bundle to carry as   The goods were soon selected, mea-
we go home, Rena," she said gayly; "I  sured off and put up; and I took the
am going to choose some new dresses for  bundle under my arm with a sense of
you at M. Roquette's store, if we get  property in its contents, that made it
there in time."                       seem quite light and manageable. Then
" The light will be none of the best, M. Roquette placed my mistress again
mistress" I replied ; " had you not better on her horse ; I scrambled on mine as
get samples?  See, the sun is nearly   best I could, and, with a graceful greet.
down already."  This was in October.  ing of her hand and head to all of the
"We shall see about that when we    gazing clerks and assistants who came
get there ; and, as to being belated, for I out to stare and wonder at her, we were
know  that is in your mind, cautious,  off again, swift as the wind almost.
cowardly little thing, I have sent word It always made my head swim to ride
to Julius to meet us half-way on our  after my mistress when she was at her
road home, the other side of the alder  fleetest. That evening, under the China
grove-we are nearly there, by-the-by.  trees on the river-bank, three miles from
That is a lonesome place to pass, even  Claireforte, we first slackened rein.  I
by moonlight ! But I don't mind the   never could see why we remember con-
rest."                                 mon things so clearly sometimes. There
She shook her bridle-rein and plumed  was nothing very remarkable about that
hat, and galloped gayly along, singing, as ride ; yet it recurs to me oftener than any
she went, a song she loved--a new song  I ever tool in my whole life.
then-very fine, I thought              I recall the scene and every thing that
"O'er the dark blue waters,    happened, and every word my mistress
O'er the salt sea foam,      spoke, with a strange distinctness that
Coeme thou, true-hearted one,  almost makes them seem real again at
Come to thy home."           times. I can still see the young moon,
When we reached Claireforte, she dashed hanging overhead, shaped like an over-
right down toward the landing, and stop-  set boat-the red lines along the horizon,
ped at the building in which the post- left by the sun, skirted with green, and
office was kept, as well as the store of purple, and tawny orange--the soft light
M. Roquette. He did not own it then, on the river, so wide and lake-like there
nor until some weeks later, but was only -the steamboat passing us in the chan-
head clerk for the proprietor. nel close to the shore, puffing loudly
He came out to meet her, quite over- and throwing off' brilliant sparks--the
joyed, as it seemed, rubbing his hands dim gray island beyond, planted just in

d:
'; ;
,
y
ti    "
,,
r ,' .
,
,     ;
:  , ,
r, .,;,
v
,y
i~
14;

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL.'                         29
the middle of the stream, that looked,  laughing, gleaming eyes--with their red
my mistress said, like some great ghostly  fire-fly light.
ship or giant anchored fast, with its few  "Not all things, Rena. There were
tall slender trees for masts (King Ar-  some He had no experience of and could
thur's Barge, she called it)--the flatboat not know, being divinely pure. Wo-
lying up close against the bank, with its  man's love, for instance-what could
fire kindled for cooking, around which  He know of it and its willful ways ?"
busy forms were moving, men in blue      " Oh, mistress."  I trembled asI
check shirts and girdled pantaloons, with  spoke ; I went no further than these
pipes in their mouths, some with flat  words in my rebuke of her levity-her
tarpaulin bats on, men both black and blasphemy, it almost seemed to me.
white. Madam, I see it all, clear as a  But, unheeding my remonstrance, not
painted picture.                      thinking of me at all, perhaps, she went
" This is a. common mirage of the   on declaiming these lines of Mrs. He-
mind, Rena."                          man's, that she afterward  made me
" The breeze was blowing fresh as we commit to memory, very thrilling as she
rode along, fresh, but warm," she con-  spoke them. I think I remember them
tinued, lifting up her face, as though she  yet. Did you ever hear them, madam ?
still felt its wing on that oppressive,lurid They begin-
June morning, in the heart of a great      "I dream of all things free-
city, when not a leaf was stirring; " and    Of a gallant, gallant bark
my mistress enjoyed it in all its full-     Fast sailing o'er the sea,
ness."                                       Like an arrow to its mark;
"low delicious this evening is " she     Of a chief his warriors leading
To arm 'neath the greenwood tree;
said to me, or perhaps to herself. It       My heart in chains is bleeding,
was her way. to speak out when she           But I dream of all things free."
was thinking. " There is such freedom
in the air to-night-such a sense of      " Yes, I remember them, Rena. You
power ! Oh, to be free-to go and come  are not quite exact, but that matters not;
as one lists-unchallenged, like this  proceed."
balmy wind! How glorious a privilege     Julius met us at the alder grove, and
this must be,! Enfranchised souls alone  we got home very pleasantly.  Then
enjoy it, though ; but I believe, after all, came the reading of the letter-more
I had rather be a breeze than an angel, rapture, more expressions of delight and
I have no wish to quit this -fair earth admiration, more resolution to cling to
entirely."                            the happiness which this correspondence
" Then you would have no soul, mis- offered her as a compensation for many
tress," I ventured to say, impelled by troubles.
the feeling of religious veneration Master  " I will take the good the gods pro-
Richard had taught me, perhaps natu-  vide," she murmured, "at all hazards!
ral to me before.   Strangely enough,  Others gamble for gold ; I have thrown
she started at my voice.              heart-stakes in this game. Where is the
" And what is a soul but a trouble  mighty difference ?"
and a plague, child, in this state of fet-  I felt my head reel as she spoke these
tered existence?  And who told you    words, and   something oppressed my
a breeze had   no  soul?, Nay, per-   breathing like thick smoke. I clutched
Iaps, was not itself a living soul?  I,  at the back of her chair to support my-
for one, choose ,to believe so from this  self; then I saw the air filled with gouts
hour. Mark~ me, Rena, a breeze is a of blood falling thick and heavily, more
soul" like hot lead than rain it seemed. Then
" Yes, mistress; but Christ has not told there went at gleam and shiver through
us this, and. He knew all things." the whole, as if glittering steel was
I never shall forget the look she gave running zig-zag like lightning through
me. Even in the shadow I saw her the shower of blood-clots. Then came


30             THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."
a clash as of swords meeting-(I knew  He understands this arrangement. Can
this, somehow, thoughtI had never heard  you undertake this office of carrier?"
the sound), and I fell to the floor quite  Of course you know what my answer
insensible. It was hours before I revived was-how unhesitating and decided; yet,
fully again; then I awoke clear and well, at that very moment, a strange fear shot
as if nothing had occurred,           through my heart, that made me as cold
When I told my mistress all this, she as death ; a dread that I might still be
seemed much agitated at first, but after- the victim of ny own unscrupulous fi-
ward laughed at me and herself, and  delity. But this was soon put away,
chided fme or relating- such improbable spurned, even, as though the very thought
phantasms, as she called it. It seemed  was self-contempt, and I felt quite nerved
to me, then, as if another spirit, not my to do her bidding
own, impelled my words in answer to     The matter was never again discussed
her:                                  between us. She was one of those per-
THAT is what you are gambling for, sons who never taunted one with useless
dear mistress," I said; "blood and sec- charges, and warnings, and counsels, hay-
ond thrusts-my vision meant that."   ing once decided to confide.
" A Daniel come to judgment, yea, a  Two weeks from this time she sent
Daniel."  I remember with what scorn  me back to Claireforte for a letter.
she spoke these words, after staring at It was daylight when I set out, and I
me long and fiercely. At last she placed got back before breakfast-time. ' My
her hand, in her usual way, upon      master was already up and walking
my shoulder.   Petite," she said, "close  about, something unusual for him. Mis-
those ears of yours when I am speaking  tress was still in her chamber.
to myself, or close those lips of yours  "You are early out this morning, Re-
when you feel like replying to what was  na ?" he said, meeting me suddenlyat
never addressed to you at all. Take   the turn of the carriage-road., " What
your choice; one of these you must do.  the devil was your errand ". I did not
Which shall it be, petite."           speak--I could not. Fortunately, my
She spoke most kindly, playfully even deep sun-bonnet concealed my face ; but,
(though her words seemed sharp), smiling for all answer, I showed him a small
rather sadly, though, I thought, down in-  package of lace buttons I had bought*
to my face,                          from M. Roquette to sew on my mistress'
" The last, dear mistress," I answered ;  new cambric wrappers.
"it shall be the last, for I can not help He thrust his hands in his pockets,
hearing; but I can help speaking, I sup- elevated his eyebrows, whistled, and
pose."                                walked on quite unsuspicious and un-
"Wise owl! this determination con-  concerned, as it seemed ; but I took care
firms my previous opinion of your dis- thenceforth, never to meet my master,
cretion. Now for a test, Rena ! Do you  and to watch for him cautiously.
think you can undertake some very spe-  When I went again to Claireforte, I
cial errands for me, and execute them  carried a letter to be posted, and brought
wisely, promptly, faithfully ?"      back another to my mistress; and so
I bowed my head, but said nothing.  matters went on pretty smoothly and
I was all attention now, all acquies-  safely for more than a year.
cence.                                  In the meantime, Master Richard
I want you to go, Rena, once a fort-  Zavier had come and gone many times.
night, to M. Roquette for a letter for  He paid  us a visit once a    mn-t
me-one with a green seal on it. You although his plantation was more than
undestante importance of thi by hundred miles away, and still brought t
these~ letters to no other hand except was the way I got used to him, madam,
mine, and mention them to no' one. for it was from the affection of habit,
You must be careful, secret, circumspect, only, I ever came to marry my husband.

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."      31

Poor, foolish wretch that I was. I had
no heart to give.
Rena sighed, crimsoned, turned away.
There was a tear in her eye when she
bent it on me once more, that never fell,
but seemed swallowed back again into
the depth of the black, lustrous orb
from whence it sprung.
I thought I penetrated the secret of
that reluctant drop ! It is sacred with
me.
It was at New Year, I remember,
that Master,.Richard paid us one of his
monthly visits. He brought my mistress
a beautiful rosewood writing-desk, rich-
ly inlaid and filled with exquisite paper,
sealing-wax and pens - all she could
want for correspondence. There was a
seal, too, one of her own devising, which
he had caused to be engraved on an
onyxtstone, set in gold, for her.It rep-
resented a falcon hooded, perched on a
hand, to the wrist of which it was fast-
ened by a chain. Above were inscribed
the words in French, " Je verrais."
How well I recognized Rena's de-
scription.
Ah, Richard, this is too much," she
.      said, smiling through her tears, "that
z     you should have recollected this whim
of mine, mentioned and forgotten by
me so long ago; it is, indeed, most kind
and unexpected. The seal is beautiful.
I shall always use it hereafter, in my
choicest correspondence." Stooping, she
kissed his forhead lightly, suddenly.
I saw that lie was agitated. " You
remind me at once, dear coz, in your
sa     playful, ironical way, what a dead letter
after all this seal must be to you, and how
useless a present I have brought, since
you  have no correspondents !   That
'Ariel' affair is over, of course. Besides,
it was altogether one-sided, while it last-
ed; you never replied, Aglae ?"
He spoke interrogatively, hesitating
between each of these last words, most
painfully, I thought.
"What an idea, Richard. After all,
what made you think of that so sud-
denly ? I thought the matter was drop-
ped by tacit consent between us long
ago." She spoke playfully, with spark-
ling eyes.

"11hope so, at least, Aglie," le an-
swered gravely, "for the good of all;
and now, dear coz, I want you to make
me a promise." He took her hand and
looked her, steadily in the face as hie
spoke. "Promise me that your name
and picture shall be ever sacredly with-
held from all anonymous or unknown
correspondents, however earnestly so-
licited. Promise, me this, Agliae, if you
love me-if you respect yourself and
me !"
"I do, -Richard," she answered with
downcast eyes and real feeling I could
see. " I do most sacredly promise you
to observe this reasonable request."
"More, Aglite, more ! Promise me-"
She laid her ivory fingers across his lips,
while a shadow of severity crossed her
countenance, interrupting thus what he
would fain have added.
"No more, Richard ! I will promise
nothing more; nor must you ask it.
Neither will I reply to any questions on
this subject. My soul is absolutely my
own, until God calls for it."
He put her hand aside; lie groaned
and bent his head down upon his hands.
When he looked up she was gone. I
was alone with him, engaged in binding
the velvet slippers my mistress had em-
broidered for his New-Year's gift, and
seated in my low chair in the chimney-
corner.
"4What do you know of all this,
Rena ?" he asked. I stared at him
vaguely ; the cold dew came to my fore-
head. What could I refuse to tell Mas-
ter Richard should lie persist in asking
me? " Say," he said, rising impulsive-
ly ; and, coming toward me, he stood
before me, placing his hand on my head
so as to raise my face and force me to
look upward. " Does she still receive
those letters with the green seal? .Does
she write in return? You know--ob-
servant, intelligent as you. are, you
know all that she does. For her sake
answer me. Rena ! these questions are
not vain! Tou can help nme to pluck
her back from the abyss toward which
she is drifting, and your duty is plain
.before you.
I hesitated for one .moment only.


32        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

" Master Richard," I said, firmly, "you
told me once that it was as bad as
eavesdropping for any one to try and
find out what was not intended for him
to know ; I have always tried to keep
this rule ever since."
He lifted his hand from my brow,
and raised it to his own. "My God !"
he said, " my God, I see how it is! I
saw it from the first ; yet I am fallen low
indeed, to deserve such a rebuke as that,
and from such lips !"
"Master Richard," I said ; " dear Mas-
ter Richard," dropping my work and
falling on my knees before him ; " I did
not mean to be impertinent, indeed I
did not. If you wanted my heart's
blood, you should have it. Nay, forgive,
me; don't be angry with me, dear Mas-
ter Richard ; I could not live and bear
it 1"
" Child, foolish child, get up ! There!
gather your work from the hearth be-
fore it is scorched. Wipe your eyes; be
quiet ; you unman me ; and heaven
knows the burthen I have to bear is al-
ready sufficient for my strength." He
hesitated. "Be faithful, be pure of heart,
and withal be silent. All may yet go
well. Noble natures are self-purifying.
Good wine works, through its fermenta-
tion,' to keep for ages."  He was speak-
ing to himself now, I well knew. " Thus
will her heart, I trust ! Poor sacrificed
child."
He mused long, standing there by the
hearth, never even looking at me again,
gazing into the embers as though he
could read the future in the wavering
coals. At last he wheeled off suddenly
-and left the room. A moment later
I heard my mistress talking to him on
the portico. Through the open window
I heard her urging him to marry Miss
Sophie Landry, the sister of the young
lady who was engaged to M. Eugene
Mallet, and a lovely girl as the sun ever
shone upon.
lie was warding off the matter as well
as he could, without being too positive,
when, all at once, I heard her say:
" Richard, I do begin to believe you
have a previous attachment that makes
you adhere so.obstinately to your bache-

lor's estate. Answer me truly, cousin;
is it so ?"
His voice was husky and broken, as
he said: " I, too, may be permitted, I
trust, to have my reservation, Aglae.
This is a subject on which you must
not touch again-must not, mark me,
cousin.
" Oh Richard, Richard, how hard you
are !  I thought, you told me every
thing." She was sobbing bitterly now,
I could hear, but he Was implacably
silent. He came to the window at last,
and looked in. Madam, his face was
like a piece of stone !
" Bring some cologne for your mis-
tress, Rena, quickly ; and a vail. The
air is too chilly out here; her eyes
suffer." There needed no such explana-
tion for me. I flew for the articles,
carried them to her myself. As I had
supposed, her eyes were red with weep-
ing; but he did not offer to assist her in
any way, or to soothe her, but sat by per-
fectly passive. And so they separated,
coldly at last.
"This seems very inconsistent with
what you have told me of Richard
Zavier, Rena-a piece of petty, spiteful
malice only. How did you account for
it ?"
" Oh,.madam, it was not in her na-
ture to suffer dumbly as he did. He
was always locked up and cold when in
deep trouble ; that was his way. And
her words had stirred the deep waters !
They were thoughtless, to say no more."
" You do not think -"
" Oh ! madam, do not ask me what I
think," she interrupted hastily, " only
what I know. You, too, may have your
thoughts, perhaps, before I end my story
--of me, as well as others. If so, I be-
seech you not to utter them or to ques-
tion me, of what must even seem uncer-
tain, because never expressed or ex-
plained."
The rest of that visit of Master Rich-
ard's was a very sad one. He was talk-
ing most of the time thereafter of his
lost mother, of his dear young sisters,
and the good governess he had obtained
for them-an English lady, middle-aged
and highly educated, and what comfort

he promised himself from their progress
and prosperity. He spoke, too, much
of his anxiety for the eternal welfare of
my mistress, and begged her to read
some books that he would send her,
carefully and constantly. But she would
not promise to do so, and this grieved
him, I could see.
On New Year's day my master had
his usual grand dinner party. My mis-
tress was beautiful in her ruby-colored
velvet, and diamonds, and Mechlin laces.
Poor Master Richard !   That day
how I pitied him. Every thing seemed
to jar upon his feelings, and he rose, on
some slight plea, and went out to wan-
der, before the dessert was laid. But
my mistress was gayer than I ever had
seen her. I saw her start once, though ;
it was when -my master called to Julius
to bring in the new champagne with
the green seat I, too, felt chilled for a
moment ; but he meant no more than he
said. It seems it was some rare wine
just from Europe, that his commission
merchant had sent him with many other
brands.
But, as I have told you, matters went
on securely, with regard to the letters,
for a year or more, and in this time my
mistress lived her full life of happiness.
About this time a shadow of suspicion
seemed to fall over ,my master's mind.
How it first gathered there, I never knew,
except from his own observation. Old
Pierre  Riviere  and his family could
have had no clue to my business at
Claireforte.  I had always done small
errands in the shopping line for my
mistress, and went no oftener now than
before. Young Roquette, we knew,
would have died. at the stake before
making the slightest revelation to any
one, even to his own father, on the sub-
ect of my mistress' concerns, and Mas-
ter Richard was not to be thought of in
such a connection, even if he had known
what he only conjectured.
I was the first to suspect my master's
suspicions, from his own manner to my
mistress, which she never observed at
all. He would watch her often, at that
time, through his half-closed eyes, with
a sort of sneering smile upon his features

that I knew of old, muttering to himself,
sometimes, after she had passed him-
muttering and cursing low, and laughing
bitterly, as if his very soul was steeped
in gall and wormwood.
When I told my mother and step-
father of this strange habit of his, add-
ing that it made me fear for her safety, but
never mentioning a syllable of my own
suspicions as to its cause, they seemed to
think it was his own embarrassments-
debts and loss s at play, that were press-
ing on him an   oading him almost to
madness.
One of our men was hired as head
steward on a New Orleans packet, and
had heard his master's affairs freely dis-
cussed by various parties, more than
once at the table, and gathered that he
was on the brink of ruin.
" We shall all be sold at public ven-
due, and that will be the end of it," said
Frederick Tanque, gloomily. "Fami-
lies will be scattered, homes broken up,
comforts destroyed, and, worst of all, the
poor young mistress-what is to become
of her ?"
"What, indeed.!" echoed my trem-
bling mother, who had never forgotten
that day on which the horsewhip fell,
for her sake, on those snow-white shoul-
ders.  " Blessed angel !  Poor, sweet,
beautiful bird ! The thought of her
trouble is harder to bear than all. You,
too, my poor Rena; raised like a lady,
unfit for hardship-what will become of
you ?"
" Oh, I am to be free, you know,
mother," I said, cheerfully. "Don't fret
about me. Don't you remember how
master gave a deed for me to my mis-
tress, when she first took me to wait on
her? He offered to buy her a diamond
cross to match those her father gave her,
she told me; but rhe said she would pre-
fer a deed for me, and that was{ because
she meant to set me free whenever I got
married."
Frederick Tanque shook his head.
" What did that scrap of writing amount
to, Rena ? Just done to please her, and
to save the diamonds--that was all I
You belong to master as much as you
ever did, and will go where the rest go,

THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL"    33

','
s
i
t


34        THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

I understand it all; the more the pity,
for that's half my trouble."
" But, Master Richard had it all at-
tended to I tell you, Papa Frederick.
Ten days afterward it was recorded, he
called it. I have often heard him say so,
and mistress went to see about it, her-
self, about two years ago, with Master
Richard. He made her go and read it
with her own eyes in a book at the court-
house. ' For that is all the property
you have in this world, Agllae,' I heard
him say; ' now be sure it is secured to
you. I may be dead when this question
arises, and you must know your own af-
fairs. Besides, in justice to the poor
spoiled child, you ought to be able to
carry out your good intentions.' I am
quite sure of all this," I added. This
soothed them greatly; still they con-
jectured all sorts of suffering for my
mistress, should the plantation be sacrifi-
ced, and were much amazed to hear me
boldly assert that she could support her-
&amp;sef by writing books, as ladies in the
North did, while I washed her clothes
and prepared her meals and saved her
all petty vexations.
As for my master, I took no concern
for his welfare. ie was out of the ques-
tion. The very mildest fate I craved for
him was the eternal calaboose ! Not so
Frederick Tanque. He yearned over
him with a strange, almost fraternal af-
fection, for they had been boys together,
play-fellows, and, so far, he had been
seldom mistreated by his master-that
is to say, not in any very violent way,
beyond curses and rough words, which
all about him had to hear. Later his
feelings altered, for the sake of one he
loved as his own child, and reared, for
her white blood, as he could not have
done for offspring of his-the daughter'
of his wife.
That wife, that mother, lived not to
see the day he prophesied, though near
at hand, and I thank God for it ! But
Frederick Tanque-a proud man, if a
slave-survived to pass under the yoke
of another, harsher rule ; and finally
die fghtngdesperately in the swamps.
MaaIwill not pierce your tender
heat wththat history, nor rouse my

own; but, this much I believe-the
master of slaves has a very different ac-
count to render for the trifling away of
property, from him who lets houses, or
ships, or stock slip from him, or lands
even. He has human souls to reckon
about with his God !
Rena bent forward on her hands, as
she frequently did, in one of those paus-
es which, with her, usually succeeded
every passionate outburst ; and again I
waited many minutes, -silently, if not
impatiently, for her to resume her tedi-
ous and digressive, yet ever earnest and
deeply impressive narrative.
" Your master grew suspicious, Rena ?"
I said, at last. " Did he betray . this
openly, and how ?   I hope poor M.
Roquette did not suffer ?" The question
roused her.
" No, no indeed. He was beyond his
reach. It was on Master Richard that
the storm burst forth at last. It was a
strange freak in my master, that, after
their long cousinly friendship and inti-
mate weekly achs7tion, lasting through
years, now that Master Richard came
but once a month, at most, and was far
more reserved than formerly in his man-
ner-and that my mistress thought less
about him than she had ever done be-
fore, 9ven if she cared as much-this
sudden, make-believe jealousy should
arise.like a tempest, and sweep all scru-
ples before it."
It was all in connection with this cor-
respondence which my master had some-
how scented out-blindly,though, at bes.,
and not to his own satisfaction, knowing
merely of its existence. How, I never
could tell. There was nothing else that
lie objected to; he never even pretended
that there was.
I never knew how he opened the sub-
ject to a man he respected as he did
respect Richard Zavier, in spite of all his
bad treatment and scornful ways toward
him. I was passing by the library door
where they both were, when I saw Master
Richard, pale as a corpse, standing be-
fore my master, defending himself earn-
estly, with uplifted hand, from some
charge that had been brought against
lum. I could not forbear lingering a

t t;
Spy
l tin
" v
limb
r*^.
+,y{
.t '.i" aF r
a.kS*,
.err
Ap"
wy
.'f ic.
r17F:{
I
f fY ;r',
s      iY

moment in the corridor to hear what he
was saying.
L" But I swear to you, by all that is
sacred to man, that you are deceived," I
heard Richard Zavier say. "I must not
be so wronged. Produce your evidence
-you say you have it, and make your
charge more distinct than the mere in-
sinuation you haveiurged, of unjust and
clandestine effort to divide man and
wife. I am 'incapable of any thing of
the kind, M. Maurepas. After all, what
arc you driving at ?  Speak out, or
swallow your own words 1"
" I have made some rules in my house
on the subject of letter-writing," my
master replied,coolly, " with which you
have been interfering of late, I suspect,
by a clandestine and underhand manner.
Letters arrive almost weekly for Madame
Maurepas, not one of which she suffers
me to see or hear of, when she can help
it. This savors of conspiracy, Richard
Zavier ! and you are undoubtedly the
author of these secret and closely-sealed
epistles."
"Is it thus you approach me with
your proofs, M. Maurepas," said Master
Richard, scornfully. " I demand these
The time is past for questions and replies
to which courtesy, justice even, might
have given precedence over positive as-
sertion, unsupported as this is by one
bare fact."
" You deny this, then, Dr. Zavier ? Do
I so understand you ?" My master rose.
"I have already denied all intent to
injure you," said Master Richard, with a
suddenly faltering tongue and downcast
head. New thoughts had come to cow
him. You would have, thought him the
criminal then, madam, had you seen
him. I knew that some mighty struggle
was waged in his noble heart, beyond
any eye of man to penetrate. The iron
had entered his soul; he cared only to
save her now.
In another moment, in obedience to
my own summons, my mistress had en-
tered the room, and stood calmly before
them. " What is the matter, Richard ?"
she said. " M. Maurepas, what is this ?
Are you not quarreling, and about me?
Oh, I hope not, I hope not !" -

My master faced her with a bitter
smile. Master Richard still stood, silent
and downcast. She continued to look
eagerly for tome time from one to the
other, with outstretched hands.
"Have 1 any thing to do with this
affair ?" she asked, at last. "I have a
right to know."
"Every thing, madam, every thing,"
replied her husband, fiercely. " I was
just interrogating Richard Zavier on the
subject of that interesting correspond-
ence you and he have been conducting
so successfully, ever since (I suppose so,
at least), the rosewood desk and its con-
tents came to Maurbpas. I ask to be
enlightened. Will you," grinding his
words between his clinched teeth, "fita-
vor me with an explanation ?"
" Of what, M. Maurepas ?"
I was amazed at her calmness, though
she,too, had grown white as death.
" Of the contents of these letters, and
their intent and purpose, if you please,
madam," lie pursued, more coolly, "the
letters of Madame Maurepas, and Dr.
Richard Zavier, I mean. You under-
stand me perfectly," he sneered,
" None such have ever been written
that I know of, M. Maurepas."
" Aglae !" The word of warning,
probably against the greater danger to-
ward which she was drifting, broke from
the lips of Richard Zavier in tones of
agony indescribably pathetic. A whole
world of self-sacrifice and heart-broken
disappointment and regret seemed in
that one familiar word-of reproach,
perhaps.
" You stand convicted, madam, by
that reproving tone," said my master,
severely, but without so far losing the
dignity lie had assumed on this occa-
sion. " Your accomplice is too consci-
entious, it seems, to sustain your shallow
falsehood. Henceforth, it is best that
you see each other's faces no more. Go,
Richard Zaviel, and be thankful that
you take your life with you. As for
you, madam," and hie advanced as if to
seize her arm, but .she sprung aside and
avoided him.
"I must be heard," she said, lifting
high her hand, in which was clinched

"I           .   . .               - ---- -                        - -   - --i -  kv - 9-

THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."      35


36        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

that small, sharp dagger she often wore.
" I, who have never uttered a lie. Now,
I swear, sacredly swear, in the sight of
God, that Richard Zavier is innocent of
this correspondence, if such there be;
and that to him the pain of such reve-
lation, were it true, would exceed any
thing a tyrant and a despot like you,
Leon Maurbpas, could feel or suffer from
such a cause."
" Beware, madam; beware how you
enrage me beyond appeal," cried my
master, his eyes growing bloodshot as
he spoke. " You have more reason than
you know of to tremble-even if what
you assert be true."
" To tremble," she. repeated, with a
curl of scorn on her lip, while her cheeks
grew crimson, and that look came to her
eyes, so terrible to all who saw it. " It
is you who should tremble, dastard that
you are. Do you know what it is for
matter to contend with spirit ? I will
teach you, Leon Maurepas. There is
lightning -enough in my veins to blast
you as you stand. Approach me one
step nearer if you dare-if you dare "
And again she lifted the clinched
poignard, with a wild and bitter laugh
that froze my blood. " Tyrant, I defy
you 1" she cried.
Madam, this was the first time she had
ever spoken a disrespectful word to him in
her life, or evidenced temper beyond mere
looks. It sobered him strangely for a
few moments. He seemed surprised, con-
founded even, and looked appealingly to
Richard Zavier.
" After all," he said, " Cousin Richard,
you may be as much in the dark about
this matter as I am. Help me- to get
things straight again, if you can, and
lead that mad woman away."
" Touch me at your peril, Richard
Zavier," she cried, as he approached her ;
she was excited now-almost beyond
the power of discriminating between
friend and foe-her eyes were filled with
that terrible red light. Master Richard
returned to the position he had left, aind
stood again, with downcast eyes and
folded arms, in the window, cut to the
very heart of hearts, I saw.
I burst into the room now with wild

and frantic weeping, and falling down,
seized my mistress round her knees, beg-
ging her for the love of God to come
away. She followed me mutely. Then
they were left together, those miserable
men. What occurred we knew not fur-
ther than this-that Master Richard left
Maurepas that evening, to return no
more, and that my master, a few days
later, went off, none knew whither, and
was absent a month, at the expiration
of which time he returned and was re-
ceived by my mistress as urbanely as if
nothing had ever occurred to disturb
their peace.
My master was more respectful and at-
tentive to her than he had been for
months, and brought her various pres-
ents, books even, which he had seldom
given her before. She never read one
of these, I remarked, but laid them
away, untouched, in their splendid bind,
ings, in the library. I saw, however,
what she did not appear to notice, that
his watchfulness was unabated, and that
he scarcely left the house now, or suffered
her to do so unattended. I had been
closely watched, I knew, by Pierre
Riviere and his family during my
master's absence; but nothing had been
discovered, although I had gone twice to
Claireforte for letters, and had brought
back, on one of these occasions, a minia-
ture to my mistress of her unseen cor-
respondent.
" Did you see it, Rena," I asked, not
without emotion.
" Yes, madam, once. My mistress
never showed it to me again, because I
said Master Richard was the handsomer.
I liked his clear, dark, pale face better
than that fair, florid countenance, with its
great blue eyes, waving golden hair and
pointed beard."
" )o you remember the style of fea-
ttres, Rena ?" The question was im-
pulsive and irresistible.
" Napoleonesque," my mistress called
it, I remember, madam.   The name
struck me as strange, and I retained it;
the features were fine, I think, the face
rather short and broad, the under lip
full, the upper long, pointed and smiling,
both very red-a brilliant face, like

sunshine, but not sweet and steady lik(
Master Richard's. The shoulders wer
broad, I remember, and .Isaw at a glance
that they belonged to a powerfully made
npan. The picture was painted on ivory
and set in gold, to be fastened to a chain.
" Did she wear it always, Rena ?"
"No, madam, not then ; she was afraid
to do this. She concealed it with her
letters, in the sandal-wood box. While
my master was gone, she caused a small
square opening to be made in the floor
under her bedstead, and nicely joined
again, with a movable lid. They were
hidden there, the letters and the picture.
Frederick Tanque did the work for her,
with his own hands, and she enjoined
him to silence."
"How determined she must have been
on her course-how reckless even," I
murmured.
" Madam, her life was in these letters.
She could not give them up. . She used
to tell me that matters had changed
places with her strangely since this cor-
respondence entered into her very soul.
Realities had grown to seem but shadows
now, and these shadows had come to be
her sole realities. Life was nothing to
her without this love !"
"Ah, Rena, would that she had died
then !"
The quadroon gazed sadly at me for
a moment.
}Y       "Ay, madam, I can say amen to
this with a pure conscience. Would she
had died then; but the vision that struck
me to the floor insensible was not given
for nothing, and she was appointed to live
and see the dark tissue completed-steel
and blood had still their work to do!"
I gasped back a reply, unnoticed by
her as she sat, with her head-bent down
upon her bosom, her hands clasped, her
feet thrust forward, her whole attitude
one of self-absorbed melancholy. I de-
termined tointerrupt her no more--that is,
if I found it possible to restrain myself.
It was so long before she roused again
from these moods of silent abstraction,
that interest itself could scarcely sustain
my patience, I feared, to the end of her
digressive narrative. It was some time
before she again proceeded.

e     ' It was nearly a fortnight after my
e master's sudden return, when I set forth
one evening to go to Clairefourte for a let-
ter, carrying another carefully concealed
in my bosom to be posted by young M.
Roquette. There were two roads to the
village ; one led through the swamp,
longer and less pleasant than the 'river
road, but far more private. I took this
one on this occasion, and saw nothing
more startling than a gopher, a squirrel,
a parroquet, or a moccasin-snake on the
road, until I reached the post-office. I
hitched my pony, and went in through
the back door of the building-a long,
dark, narrow store, with the post-office in'
the rear, when I saw my master come up
the front steps, immediately facing me,
but nearly a hundred feet off. I was
sure he did no observe me, but I shrank
into the shadow, prepared to remain
silently there until M. Roquette sliould
come down in my direction. The store
was quite full of customers, and I knew
I might have to wait a long time where
-there were so n i ny to serve, unless
some one came for a letter.
It was not many minutes, however,
before I saw my master and M. Roquette
walking down the store together to-
ward, the post-office. I shrank behind
the side counter, and they passed with-
out observing me.
They went into the office, which was
so near that I could hear every word
they spoke from the low seat I occupied,
through the latticed partition.
"You have acted in defiance of-the
law, M. Maurbpas," I heard M. Roquette
say, after a moment, "in turning over all
those letters and reading their superscrip-
tions ; but I hope at last you are satisfied.
There is none, you see, for your wife."
"And do you pretend to say, you
infernal little puppy,' my master said,
" that none such ever pass through your
hands? No palavering now ; answer
me directly, sir, directly."
"Put your questions plainly ; I hard;
ly understand -you," stammered M. Ro-
quette.
" Listen, then, imnblaile, and compre-
hend. Do letters, directed to Madame
Aglite Maurepas, come to your post-office,

THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."    37


38        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

or do they not?  Be careful how you
evade this straightforward question. I
have a right to know, and I ,shall con-
sult the registers if I have reason to
think you are lying to me, cowardly
little hound !" with a terrible oath that I
will spare you, madam. " Prick up your
ears and answer, then, on peril of-"
"1I am willing to take my oath in a
court of justice," interrupted M. Ro-
quette, not frightened now, but deter-
mined, I knew  from  the sound of his
voice, " that no such letters come to this
post-office, or pass through my hands.
Madame Maurepas has no correspon-
dents that I know of.  Now, sir, spare
me your insults, and your presence on
these premises in the future, Ientreat !"
This last word was spoken more like
an order than a prayer, I thought. I
-       was astonished at Mr. Claude's spirit,
and so would you have been, madam,
could you have seen him-a little man,
with a small, sleek, black head, carried
chiefly on one side ; a short, smiling,
sallow face, and a step like the hop of
a canary bird. But he had a fearless
eye, I remember that, and was as quick
with a pistol as any one, though it was
against his conscience to go armed.
" What did you give for these goods,
Roquette, and what price did your fath-
er pay for his house ? tell me that be-
fore I leave your presence," my master
asked in his most insulting tone.
Not knowing his suspicions, M. Ro-
quette could not imagine of course that
he was accusing him of trickery.
"'My gratitude, Monsieur Maurepas,
that was the price I paid," replied Mr.
Claude, warmly.           0
"Are you sure your honor was not
included, Roquette ? A small matter is
thrown in, sometimes, when a good bar-
gain is concluded between friends, and
that would have scarcely been an dddi-
tional feather's weight, I take it."
The intention was apparent now !
M. Roquette's vice was altered with
rage when he replied: "Do not esti-
mate mine by your own, M. Maurepas,
or you may do some one injustice." lie
stammered when excited. " And now,
M. Maurepas, if your search is over, we

will part on the terms I at first suggest-
ed, if you please-eternally, sir, and
immediately."
" With all my heart, M. Roquette, un-
til it suits my convenience to come
again. Is that the packet I hear blow-
ing off steam ?  I must be off right
speedily. I have business to settle at
the landing," and to my great relief my
master rushed forth and galloped off.
" That will detain him half an hour
at least," I thought. " Let me hurry and
be gone." In. another moment the letter
I held was exchanged for one sealed
with the green seal, and directed to Va-
lerie, and I was again galloping home-
ward, by the river road this time. I
was afraid of the swamp, so late-afraid
of getting. lost when the dusk should
close, which would be the case before I
reached Maurepas. Besides that, I felt
sure my pony would carry me half way
home before master thought of leaving
the steamboat.
I was mistaken. Just as I got oppo-
site that island which my mistress called,
from some whim, "King Arthur's Barge"
-the same I described before, with its
dim outlines and gigantic trees, like
masts-I heard the quick thud and hab-
itual blow of master's great bay horse,
"Cortez," and glancing behind, I saw
him coming after me in a hard hand
gallop. But he did not call to me
to stop, as I feared he would, nor pass
me and wait for me, as I dreaded he
might -do; but, as soon as he got quite
close to me, he slackened rein and kept
behind me in a leisurely way for more
than a mile, so that my suspicions were
almost disarmed when we reached the
alder grove.  I had no opportunity-
not the slightest-all this time to make
any provision for the safety of the let-
ter, in case he should suspect and seize
me fpr examination. It lay concealed
in my bosom, it is true ; but this would
have been no safeguard had he deter-
mined to possess it, I well knew. My
worst fears were realized at last, though
unexpectedly, too, for I had begun to
hope I might reach home undisturbed.
When we entered The alder grove, my .
master stopped and called to me to halt,

which I did instantly, trembling in every
limb. He never kept his cruel eye off
of me, I knew and felt all this time,
except for one instant, when he dis-
mounted to hitch his horse to a low hang-
ing limb, and turned his back on me for
a moment.    That instant was worth
every thing to me. Quick as light Iliad
transferred the precious letter from my bo-
som to a hole I remembered to have seen
that day under the flap of the old saddle
I was riding on, and had thrust it in far
among the' stuffing when   he turned
again. I had matured. this plan as I
rode along before him, and, come what
might, I felt now that she was saved,
and drew a long breath of relief, even
though I saw him cutting switch after
switch  from  the alder  bushes, and
watching me closely all the time with
his cat-like, cruel eyes, that spoke as plain-
ly as words what his intentions were.
At last he spoke to me: "Rena, where
is that letter M. Roquette gave you this
evening for your mistress ?"
"What letter, master ?" I asked, tremb-
ling like a poplar leaf.
"You know well enough what letter
I mean, deceitful mink," he answered.
"Dismount. I shall whip you until
you tell me the truth or hand me the
letter."

It was vain to think of resistance. I
got offmy pony and hitched him where
he motioned to me to fhsten him,
which was done carelessly enough, it
seemed later, for he broke loose and gal-
loped home like mad, and that brought
Frederick Tanque to see about me, as
you shall hear, but not until life was
nearly gone, and vengeance itself satisfied.
Madam, I spare you -the dreadful de-
tails. This was the first time I had
ever been whipped ; it was the last.
Suffice it to say, I was resolute through-
out, to die rather then betray my mis-
tress. It is not so hard as people think
to keep such a resolution when the mind
is once excited. It is in the beginning
of punishment that one's spirit quails.
It seems to rise, the more the body suf-
feis-the more the blood flows, so that
I can understand how those old martyrs
sung amid curling flames, and died in

F
E
l

,v
F
. , '
~ {7
r1
.f ;y
r,
5
.,'{2.
'  T  '1r .
i   '+
y 1
4a: r,
k:
;

c

ecstasy that rose above their fleshly
' destruction, though terrified at the dread-
ful preparations, and finally got in such
a state of mind they could not yield.
The last I remember of my suffering
was the thought that I was dying, and
for her ! Then I felt Frederick Tanque
untying the cravat with which my mas-
ter had fastened my hands behind me,
and bathing my face with brandy, and
pouring some down my lips, perhaps-
I do not know ; then all was dark.
Afterward, I heard that he had threat-
ened his master's life on this occasion; but
whether this was true or not, I know not.
If so, M. Maurepas had the prudence or
generosity to pass it by unpunished ; but,
from that hour, Frederick Tanque hated
his master far more than he had ever
loved him, and relaxed all his previous
efforts to take care of his affairs, about
which he had been so faithful and un-
tiring.  As for my mother, I shall
always think the shock of my condition
killed her, weak and sickly as she was,
and wholly unprepared for such treat-
ment in my case, petted and defended
by ihy mistress as I had been. She
broke a blood vessel then, and died
within the year. But, as I have said, it
was all the better for her (seeing how
matters. were bound to go), that she
should be cold in her grave.
" But your mistress, Rena ?"
" Ah, madam, my first thought on
coming to myself was of her, and I
whispered, they said: 'Don't tell her
how he whipped me,' to those around,
then relapsed again into partial uncon-
sciousness, from time to time muttering
her name."
"She came to you, of course ?"
"He would not let her I He kept her
locked in her own chamber for a week,
forbidding any one to approach her ex-
cept the daughter of old Pierre Riviere-
Phoebe, a bad and deceitful girl, his princi-
pal spy, and we all thought too near to the
master by half. During this time, the
servants heard my mistress moianin
piteously, and calling sfor me and her
cousin Richard.   At last, Julius, u
waiter, forced his way in with a cup our
tea--when my master had gone down

I

TIDE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."  39


THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."       41

to the lake, and begged her on his knees
to drink it, for she would take nothing
but iced water. He took this occasion
to tell her all he knew of me-that he
had seen me sitting up that day-the
fifth from that fearful ride, and that
the doctor said I would soon be out
again, and able to attend her as usual.
" Do, dear mistress," he said, "bear
up better. Master Richard will soon be
here; he has been sent for to come to
you, I believe."
This was a story of his, madam, just,
to get her to eat and drink, and to rouse
her up. So she took the tea and toast
that he had carried her, and rallied from
that hour, but looked vainly for her
cousin Richard. As for Phoebe, the pow-
er Julius had, kept her silent, for he
knew of some thefts she had committed,
and held a rod over her through this
knowledge. A day or two after, urgent
letters came from New Orleans and my
master left hurriedly, leaving old Pierre
in charge of watch and ward.
But my mistress was herself again
by this time, for I had crept up to her
chamber-door, feebly, it is true. She
sent through me for Julius and Fred-
erick Tanque, and ordered them to ex-
pel Pierre and Phoebe from her house,
and to bring back to her service her
favorite woman, Rhoda; and when my
master returned, a week later, things
were going on pretty much in the old
order of management. He never said
a word-to show that he disapproved--
if, indeed, he was not really relieved by
the stand my mistress had taken.
Before I forget, let me tell you she
never got that letter which I had stuffed
into the saddle.  When I got well
enough to search for it, I could not find
it, and soon after my mother gave the
saddle away to her old fellow-servant,
Deemah's mother, madam. The saddle
belonged to my mother ; but she knew
she should never be able to ride again.
It came to me at last. Years after-
ward I ripped up the saddle, and found
the letter where I had never been able
to reach it before. I knew it at once-
by the green seal, and here it is, madam.
I have brought it to show you that this

is not all a dream I have been telling,
but true as death. Read it some day,
for her sake, and take care of it, for it is
the only link left now of that long chain
of correspondence. Perhaps you will
recognize your relative's handwriting !"
She looked at me sharply.
I did, indeed, recognize the noble and
peculiar character of one who once had
been fatally dear to me; but I could not
trust myself then to read that impassion-
ed letter, confirming in every line the truth
of Rena's past and subsequent asser-
tions. Placing the letter%'in my pocket
with as much coolness as I could com-
mand, I begged her to continue her
narrative; promising to read it at some
future day, and make a just disposition
of its contents. She seemed satisfied of
my good intentions, and, after enjoining
me to entire secresy, she proceeded, in
her rambling and desultory mode, with
her story of the "Green Seal," still far,
it seemed, from its culmination.
A month or more passed by in a
kind of peaceable gloom, after my mas-
ter's return.  My  mistress  and  he
seldom met, except at meals. She could
not bear to be thrown with him an in-
stant alone, and shuddered if he even
accidentally touched her-so darkly had
her hatred for him gathered force-since
his outrage to me and his insults to Mas-
ter Richard.  That panther-look I have
tried to describe to;you, was seldom oat
of her eyes:now, when they fell on him,
even when she saw him at a distance,
and those burning spots rose to her
cheek, whenever lie addressed me, that
always showed anger or excitement, in
her case. They came and went, like
flame.
" Did you bring her any more letters,
Rena ?" I asked, nervously.
"No, madam; Frederick Tanque went
to M. Roquette by night for her letters,
thenceforth. She wrote an order to this
effect, and I think Mr. Claude pretty
well understood, after my master's be-
havior in his store, the necessity of con-
cealment, believing always, as he did,
that this was a mere literary corres-
(pondence-to which every lady of taste
|and education was entitled. It didl

40        THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

Frederick Tanque good to baffle his
master, and to help my mistress in any
way. He never stopped to ask ques-
tions. Of course he thought she knew
her own affairs best, and would do noth-
ing to hurt herself.
Those letters were her whole comfort
now, and she would write sheet after
sheet in reply, sometimes shedding tears
above them, always pressing her lips
upon them before she folded and sent
them away. I noticed she always sealed
them now-with the seal Master Rich-
ard had given her, and once I heard her
say:
"Je verrais /-yes-I shall see, in-
deed, when this wretched chain is broken
and the 'hand' lifted from my eyes;
but not as Richard meant-in heaven !
Je verrais on earth, which is a still more
agreeable prospect, I fancy."
My master was truly very wretched
about this time, and, perhaps, had my
mistress known the whole truth, she
might have softened toward him, as she
had done before when he was in trouble.
His losses were pressing heavily upon
him; his creditors were losing patience,
and hounding him at the law ; his com-
mission merchants refused him further
advances, and he knew not where to
turn. He had quarreled with Master
Richard, the only true friend he had,
and was at dagger's points with Madame
Zavier, his wife's mother; so that he had
no one to advise with. Several times I
thought he was on the point of making
some communication to my mistress ;
but she always waived him off with a
sort of horror that had newly come to
her eye and manner toward him. He felt
this change, I am sure. He had never
realized before how bitterly she could
hate, or how insensible she could become.
It was a desperate time to both.
He sent for her, one day, by Julius, to
meet him in the library for an hour's
conversation, and she agreed to go if she
might take me with her. No objection
was made to this, and I sat at the door-
S   step while they conversed, listening pain-
fuly to every word they spoke, and filled
with vague apprehensions of what might
cometo  - pas

He meant to be very calm, I think;
but her manner irritated him from the
first. There was such evident loathing,
in every look ,and gesture, though she
said but little, if any thing, to offend him
until he had thrown off all disguise, and
had shown his hideous nature without a
mask.
" I want you to write to Richard Za-
vier, Aglae, and ask him to lend you five
thousand dollars for three months. I
will go your security for the repayment
punctually, and when the money comes,
you shall go to New Orleans with me,
if you like."
"I can not do this, M. Maurepas,"
she answered, without hesitation. " I
have no claims on that money or that
gentleman after what has passed. I can
not comprehend your conduct, I confess.
It is inscrutable to me."
"Are you quite sure, Agilae, that you
have no right to this money'?" he hissed
in her ear. " When a woman makes
such sacrifices for a man as you have
made for your Cousin Richard, she  has
certain claims-acknowledged in morals
if not in law."
" There is one thing I am quite sure
of," she said, as cold as ice, drawing
away from him as' she spoke. "TThat
you have none, whatever mine may be.
More, M. Maur pas, I know that you do
not believe one syllable of your own base
insinuations. You mean to torture me
because you can, that is all. But, thank
God, you have lost all power to move
me by any words of, yours. I, that was
wax once, in your cmiuel hands, am hard-
ened into stone."
He looked at her with a cold, incred-
ulous sneer; then, sitting down to the
table, wrote a few lines which he handed
to her, with a pen filled with ink.
"Sign that paper, Aglae," h'e said,
calmly. " Here, lay it on this book," hand-
ing her one, " a name is soon writteu."
" Not so soon expunged," she replied,
after glancing over the paper. Then
pushing ~it away, she added: " I am at
a loss to understand, M. Maurepas,.hos'
you can expect me to codperate with you
in asking this or any other favor of
Richard Zavier."


42        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

" My magnanimity is surprising, even
to myself," he said, shrugging his shoul-
ders, and standing before her ; " but,
the truth is, I am inclined to make al-
lowances for circumstances, and my ne-
cessities are urgent-temporary embar-
rassments only, however. Come, make
no further objections. Sign this like a
good girl, and let us be friends again."
She dashed down the pen. " Never,"
she cried. "I will never sign such a re-
quest, promptly as I know it would be
complied with; nor should you ask me
such a thing, after the-contumely you have
heaped on my noble, unoffending kinsman.
Where is your pride, M. Mtturepas ?"
" In the dust, where you have laid it,
madam," he sneered, bowing low.
" You speak falsely, sir, and you know
it. As far as you can know, I have
never humiliated you or myself. What I
may do remains to be seen, M. Maurepas."
" Do you threaten me, madam?   Do
you dare to gnaw your chain ? Girl,
you overstep your limits. Thank heaven,
your opportunities are small, and they
shall be still less in future. But, what
is the use of trying to reason? There,
take your seat at the table ; write a let-
ter to Richard Zavier with my approval.
Ask him to come back to Maurepas, if
you like; have it your own way ; work
it as you will. Pave the way for recon-
ciliation, and, when I get him here, I
can obtain the. loan without your im-
portant cooperation."
" I will not write him for such a pur-
pose," she replied sternly ; "nor, on con-
sideration, have I any reason to suppose
that, after your unjust treatment, he
would receive a letter directed to him in
my handwriting; or, if received, on my
own account, reply to it at all. I shall
never ask him to return, M. Maur pas."
Then, with a wail I can never forget,
she cried out: "I have lost my Cousin
Richard 1"                       ,
She clasped her hands in a mute, ag-
onized way, and bowed her face over
them. She had never fully realized this
loss before (she told me this afterward),
nor what a blank it would leave in her
existence. ,
" And is he so dear to you," my mas-

ter muttered, between his clinched teeth,
"that the want 9f Iim should make
you as bitter as gallto every one else?
What is this man to you-speak, Aglae
Maurepas-that you dare to lament him
thus in your husband's very presence ?"
She raised her head ; she looked him
clear in the face ; the panther look was
gone, and her words were grave and low.
"My moral sunshine," she made an-
swer.  I recollect how beautiful her
words, her face, seemed to me at that
moment; but my master was a savage.
Some gust of sudden rage seemed t(
sweep him from his feet. He forgot
every thing but the fury that possessed
him-forgot that he was a husband, a
gentleman, a man !
Raising his hand, and grinding his
teeth with a fierce oath, he struck her
twice ; once on the cheek, once on the
neck, just above her left breast, and his
hand was raised for a third blow when
I rushed shrieking between them.
He stood, then, dumb, confounded,
with his arms hanging down, his head
bent low on his bosom, his face distort-
ed, his eyes upturned, fixed upon her
face, that, pale, and still, and cold, smil-
ed bitterly straight before him. Madam,
it was awful to see her then-so still had
the shock made her, so strangely had it
affected her. Smiling, she put me away
and passed from the apartment-smiling,
with her great growing eyes fixed upon
space, and waving her hands slowly as
she walked through the porches and
corridor, as a blind person might, who
walks in strange places, to put away
all obstacles.  And so, still smiling,
she came to her own chamber again,
while I clung in agony to her gar-
ments. But, again she put me away,
and I thought the storm was coming ;
but not so. No tears, no weakness
then, only a long, fixed stare in the glass
at the red marks on her cheek and
bosom, so soon to become purple bruises.
Another long look at the little dagger
she took from the drawer of the toilet
table-it was well she had not worn it
that day-and a lingering touch of the
small, white fingers, as though to test its
metal well and thoroughly. Then again,

that slow, fixed, terrible smile, as she
turned-the weapon over and over admir-
ingly, passing it now close to her eyes,
as a child does a prism, then holding it
away at arm's-length again, as one does a
beautiful jewel, to admire. Oh ! God,
was she going mad, or, did she meditate
murder    These thoughts swept through
me and nerved me ,to break the spell.
I gave way to a passion of grief, and,
falling at her feet, I cried out piteously:
"Oh, mistress, mistress ! for sweet
Jesus' sake, don't kill my poor, wicked
master !"
She spoke with strange clearness, in
a voice whose sound was exultant, even
to my ear, and not husky and broken as
I had expected to hear it.
"-Child, child, I would not hurt one
hair of his head," she said, "to be queen
of all this world !"
"It is yourself, then, dear mistress, you
mean to harm. I know it is your own
sweet life that you are going to destroy ;
and, oh ! my mistress, think of dear
Master Richard and all his teachings,
and his great grief, and mine and Madame
Zavier's, when we feel that heaven is
closed forever against you, a suicide. Tell
me, dear mistress, are you going to die ?"
I looked up in her face with streaming
eyes, and she bent tenderly above me.
The dreadful smile was gone now, ,nd a
sweet seriousness had replaced it. Tears,
too, were on her cheek-tears of relief.
"No, Rena, no !" she replied, "I am
not going to die. I am only going to be-
gin to live ! My chains are broken now,
and I am free, as you, too, shall be, dear
child, after a season.  Your Master
Richard shall not be troubled by any
rash act of mine, if I can help it, for we
must be secret as the grave ; you and I,
Rena," whispering clearly, " we will fly
together. The way is plain before us, and
I shall live my new life." Adding, with
her finger on her lip, " I am going to him!"
P A RT IV.
MY Scheherezade was interrupted, on
this occasion, by the unexpected entrance

of my husband, who had returned earlier
in the evening than usual from his place
of business. He had already been back
some days from  Cuba, but had never
chanced to confront my quadroon laun-
dress. She eyed .him vigilantly, I saw,
drawing comparisons evidently between
his face and its "counterfeit present-
ment" on the walls, as her dark eyes flash-
ed from one to the other, and apparently
well satisfied with the result of this scru-
tiny, rested at last, dreamily, on the floor.
When he had gone out again she took
up the thread of her story-which had
probably made the theme of her musings
-without an intervening remark, and
with a sort of careless abruptness that
might have beseemed royalty:
Of course you know, madam, who
she meant by 'him.' Young as I was,
and simple, I understood at once, and a
sort of terror took possession of me,
when I thought of that smiling, cruel,
face (no blood relation of yours, I am
glad to hear, lady), and what would be
our fate if=we fell into such hands ? But
I said nothing, and weeks passed before
my mistress made mention of her purpose
again. By this time she had received
another letter, sealed with the " Green
Seal," and I heard her talking to it and over
it, as she always did when those morsels of
witchcraft came; and in this way I knew
what her plan was, and that she was going
to meet Mr. Adrian, who had been long,
as I knew before, entreating her to come
to him as soon as she had an opportunity.
"We are to go to Boston, Rena," she said,
" where I can make my livelihood with
my pen and be independent of every body,
and Mr. Adrian insures me employment,
for he has great influence with the jour-
nals, some of which have already publish-
ed my pieces, though without paying me,
so far; and we are to live with hi's sister
-you and I-until the time comes to
break my chains, not a hard thing to do in
that free country where there are no slaves
-no weary women, as I am told, bound in
relentless marriage yokes, as in this lovely
land where nature rebukes humanity."
Then she sat awhile with her small white
hands clasped, and her eyes cast up in that
pretty way she had, which always made

f

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."      43
IP


44         THE "ROMANC  OF THE GREEN SEAL."

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."       45

me feel as if she were praying, though I
do not know that she was ; and present-
ly she broke out again, very suddenly:
"I shall burn my bridges as I go,
Rena, like a great General of old times,
and leave no vestige behind by which I
can be traced, even by your Master
Richard. They can imagine me dead,
if the worst cones-mother and, all the.
rest-and you know how easily people
forget their dead I What is inevitable is
always borne with courage. It is, indeed,
a beautiful order that it should be so !
M. Maurepas will get him another wife,
who will bear him the children he craves,
and when two years have come and gone
I shall be happy with a noble husband.
Yes, Adrian," she murmured, "1I will re-
pose evermore on your honor and fidelity."
"May I tell my mother, mistress," I
ventured to ask, "of this plan of yours ?
She would never betray you, I am sure,
nor would Frederick Tanque."
"No, child, not for worlds," adding,
carelessly, "but you need not go with me
unless you choose, Rena."
I answered only by humbly kissing her
hand ; but, even then, I was meditating
perfidy!i Oh, madam, from love, not
hate, I was about to play the part of Judas
Iscariot, and give her up into the hands
of her friends, not her enemies-yet all
the same I was to step in between her
and happiness forever."
The quadroon sat with her hands
locked and her head bowed over them,
in a penitential attitude, evidently lost in
thought, when I roused her with a ques-
tion:
"And where was M. Maurepas all
this time, Rena ? Was there no effort
on his part at-reconciliation with his
justly offended wife ?"
"At home, madam--at home, walking
the house like a caged panther day and
night, sorry enough, no doubt, for what
he had done, but never daring to come
near my mistress, who commonly kept
bolt and bar between them. Some-
times she would throw open her windows
and sit by them, however, and at ,such
times he was always 'sure to pass5 on the
galleries, but there was a look in her
eyes like frozen fire that was hard to

meet and that frightened even him, and
lie left her to herself. That look cowed
him and made him quiet, so that even I
began to pity him in my heart, fbr the gift
is not given to every one to hate any
more than to love as my mistress could.
But she only laughed coldly whei I
spoke of his trouble, and turned away,,
saying, very bitterly, I thought, in clear,
calm tones:
" May his trouble never be less, Rena,
but I will not wish it more for my own
sake."
"Mistress," I could not help exclaim-
ing, "does not Jesus Christ tell us to
forgive ?"
"How can we forgive when we are
not angry ?" she asked in turn. " M.
Maurepas is simply dead to me, and I
should be as divine as our Savior himself
could I bid the dead live again. Did you
ever try to kindle a fire with ashes,
Rena ?"
I hung my head ; I understood her
then. All was over between them, and
forever; yet he was her husband, and I
had heard Master Richard say what a
solemn bond marriage was-one never
to be broken in our holy church-" a tie
as long as life and as strong as death," lie
called it.
It was to Master Richard I betrayed
her.
I had been taught to write legibly
by my mistress, though with great diffi-
culty. Somehow ITnever took to writing
as I did to other things, and my hand
would cramp terribly in copying out long
words, and though I could spell very well
off the book, when I tried to write down
my thoughts all the letters would get
jumbled together ih my mind and the
words would look strange to me on paper.
The hardest work- I have ever under-
taken in my life was writing that long
letter to Master Richard. I was a week
about it, for I had to choose my time
when my mistress was busy with her
papers, or sitting like one in a dream,
forgetful of all about her. Bdt I did not
fold up or seal my letter until I had
heard her say when she was going to
leave Maurepas, and where Mr. Adrian
was to meet her. He was to be at

"           :f

{ ,I t rl
;  l J(
l tt  1
i L
i  t
1 j   ,
t  Y'
_  ' ,
^  ?Si
t \
V'' 'frr Y
'     14 £T i
:.+ 1
J i  , .
5
.r 3"

Memphis, on the first of December,
she said, (after getting another letter from
him) and would wait for her there until
she found an opportunity to leave home
during my master's absence.
We knew he would be obliged to go
to New Orleans, early in that month, but
he never told any one what day he meant
to go or to return. So we were all
packed, waiting many days. And now,
let me tell you, madam, my mistress put
aside all books and jewels and fine dresses
he had given her, and locked them in
the Armorie, leaving the key with my
mother and placing in her trunks only a
few plain clothes and the remains of her
marriage trousseau, her diamonds, her
Cashmere shawl-gifts from her dead
father ; also the bag of gold pieces Ma-
dame Zavier had given her for private ex-
penses on her wedding morning, not one
of which she had ever touched, for my
master was liberal enough as far as
money went, and liked to see her dress
fine and spend freely when they went to
the cities together. It pleased him well
to see all the lorgnettes pointed at her at
the opera house at New Orleans, though
he would tantalize her about it afterward.
He never loved her better, I believe,
than when she treated him with such
cold scorn. After his late bad behavior
I am sure he could have crawled to her
feet during those last weeks at Maurepas,
but for the fear he had of her fiery, flash-
ing eyes, and that look of frozen flame
(madam, I can give it no better name),
she turned upon him, whenever he cross-
ed her presence.
" He is no more to me," I heard her
murmur one day as he went by her win-
dow like a shadow, "than the scorpion
that crawls on the wall; but I will not let
him sting me if I can help it ! Yet, I
would harm no creature willingly."
Mr. Grimshaw, his commission mer-
chant from New Orleans, arrived about
this time and stayed a week at Maure-
pas, walking about every where with my
master, examining the sugar-houses and
the engine carefully, and jotting down
notes of every thing in his memoran-
dum-book, and getting a list of the ne-
groes, with every name written out in

full, from the oldest down to the young-
est. But this my mistress never knew,
and Frederick Tanque bade me keep it
from her.
On the eighth or tenth of December
my master went to New Orleans with
Mr. Grimshaw, and from that moment
my mistress was on the watch for, a
steamboat to take her away in an oppo-,
site direction, for, as I have said, she
had been ready to go for many days
past. Once in every four or five hours
she sent to Mr. Roquette to know when
the next packet would touch at Claire-
forte, and the morning after my master
left home the young man wrote to me
that the propeller Palestine was expect-
ed between sundown and dark, that eve-
ning.   Then our arrangements were
made at once to go in the Palestine.
The barouche was ordered and Julius
drove us over, while Frederick Tanque
followed in the spring-wagon with our
light baggage. The servants thought we
were going to visit Madame Zavier, at her
place, Les Boccages, between Natchez
and Vicksburg, for a few days, and, as it
turned out, they were not far from right,
but of our real intention they had no idea.
Once only my mistress came near be-
traying herself, and that was in parting
with Mr. Roquette, who was all atten-
tion, and insisted upon putting on board
a basket of his famous sweet oranges
from trees Master Richard had grafted
in his little garden, and gave my mis-
tress his arm to lead her safely to the
cabin, for it was quite dark when the
steamer Palestine came sparkling along.
" Good-by, Mr. Roquette," I heard her
say. "May all prosperity be yours, and if
ever you see my cousin Richard again, tell
him-but no ! I will send no messages I"
and she checked herself suddenly..
"I see how it is, Madame Maur pas,"
said Mr. Roquette, in a low, tearful
voice ; " you are never coming back
again," adding, after a pause: ".May God
bless you, madam, wherever you are."
She laughed with a real ring in her
voice that surprised me, for I was ready
to burst out crying all the time, and
trembling like a leaf.
" How tragical we all are to-night,


-THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."     47

4 6       THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

Mr. Roquette ! But, I suppose it is be-
cause I go so seldom from home that
such solemn partings occur!  I can't tell
what has become of my cheerfulness.
Farewell," giving hin her hand; "and le
sure to be the first to welcome me when
I come home;" and she turned joyfully
from  Mr. Roquette, who left us, no
doubt, perfectly convinced of her sin-
cerity.
That was the first time I had ever
accused my mistress secretly of being
deceitful.
But, just as if this gayety had been a
mantle she had worn for a time and un-
clasped at the throat and let fall to the
floor when she was tired of it, did her
behavior change when she found herself
alone with me in her state-room.  A
countenance of deeper woe I never saw
than was hers, as she sat leaning back
against the wall, with her eyes closed
and her face half turned aside, and her
locked hands lying loosely on her lap.
She refused to go out to the supper-
table, but I went to the steward and
brought her a cup of tea and a cracker,
and she ate'it mechanically, just as a
child takes its food from a nurse's hand,
but seemed little better afterward-ly-
ing in her berth and meaning low all
night, in a piteous way that kept sleep
from may eyes.
At five o'clock in the morning we blew
off steam at Natchez where we were to
lie-to an hour-and, on hearing this, I
got off and went to the, guard to see
the city as well as I could below the hill,
and watch the drays come down the
bluffs piled with cotton, and the deck
hands going and coming by the light of
blazing torches-for the fog hung heavy
over every thing, and it was a dark and
dreary dawn, cheerless as midnight.
A'carriage drove up, almost below the
guard over which I was hanging, and
unable to go further on account of the
cotton-bales, stopped at some distance(
from the plank. I saw a gentleman ge
out slowly, wearing his arm in a sling
Just at that moment a passing torec
flashed on his face, and I knew my ma~
ter Richard. He looked very white i
that strong yellow light, and walke

-    -    -

I

I

I

--

feebly, I thought, leaning as was not his
habit on a cane. My heart beat wildly
as I saw him come on board, to make
inquiries of us I knew, but I said nothing
about his presence to my mistress when
I went back to her state-room. She was
already awake, however, if indeed she
had slept at all during that uneasy night,
and spoke to me as I entered.
"I must get up and dress myself
soon," she said. " I want to see ' Les
Boccages' once more as we pass by, and
I am not certain how many hours' run
it is from Natchez. I took 'no note of
time' when I went there three years
ago. Every thing was so different then."
" Yes, my dear mistress," I thought to
myself, " that dreadful serpent-seal had
not then twisted itself about your heart.
You were as free then, for all your home-
troubles, as a bird on a bush."  But I
said nothing, and went to work at once
to assist her to dress, taking down her
long, black hair, which reached to her
knees, and combing it carefully, though
with trembling hands, then arranging it
in the French twist and coils she always
wore, and which so well became her
small and graceful head. Then she
threw on her black silk gown and
crimson shawl, and with a lace vail over
her head, went out on the guard to watch
for "Les Boccages."  I had taken her a
cup of coffee, all she would taste. I
never saw her cheeks .so pale, nor her
eye so bright, as on that gray, dreary
morning, nor her mouth of such a burn-
ing red. She looked just like a beauti-
ful vision, madam, I once saw painted
- of a transfigured saint.
About an hour later I heard her utter
a faint cry, and, looking out from the
state-room door, I saw Master Richard
standing beside her.
e " We are bound to the same point, I
, suppose, Aglie," I heard him say. "I
e am afraid you, too, have had bad news
e from ' Les Boccages.'"
t    She did not answer, but looked at him
.in strange, confused silence, liftig her
[h hand to her head, gasping as if over-
;- whelmed. .
a " Is it my mother ?" she asked, pite-
d ously, at last.

"Yes, your mother has need of you,  prived of a share of it, if it can be
Aglae.  One of your brothers has sus-  rightfully, honorably obtained.  True
tamed an injury.                      love and pure love, such as hers, must be
" Oh, heavens ! a fatal one ?  Is it right, it seems to me, in spite of all the
Bernard ?"                            preachers tell us; and my poor mistress
" I will not tell you another word un- would have been more blest to have
til we reach 'Les Boccages.' .You are  had her will for one month and then to
going there, of course. You are too ner-  have died, than to have lived all those
vous to bear details now.  I shall be  empty years.  She would at least have
detained a few hours, in all probability, lived and died happy.
and have plenty of time to answer ques-  "There are better things than such
tions. We will get off there together."  happiness, Rena, known to the human
" Of course," she answered nechani- soul," I said, sternly.
ally. "But," gathering courage by a    "What, madam, what ?" she asked,
great effort, "I had thought to go further, defiantly.
Richard."                              " God's approval-man's esteem-our
",To icksburg to see Marion Martin, own self-respect and satisfied conscience.
I suppose," he said, somewhat grimly.- Nay, even the opinion of the world is
"I remember your girlish friendship-- much."
and she is well settled and able now to  " What was the world to her, madam?
entertain you. I trust matters may still  What could it ever have been?  She
go well, and-and-" hesitating slightly,  had never cared for it, or its opinions.
then speaking low, while he fixed his She whoe wae no lie ohr pesople-os
reyes on me, as I stood at the door of the  every one said that knew her; but will-
state-room, with hands clasped, wistful  ful and sweet and loving as a little child,
and wild almost-." that the visit may  and perhaps not much more responsible,
still be made ; but, be not too sanguine,  if allpwas known. m   po   b
Aglte ; you havee a shock to bear; I will  She shook her head sternly. wn.No,
not coneal this from Mast  a        madam, she was done to death' by being
I knew then that Master Richard had thwarted, and I was one of those that
received my letter, and I thought I knew helped to destroy her, through ill-judged
what his pale face and bandaged arm be-  affection. I believe that she had a right to
y mistress covered her eyes  love Mr. Adrian, as had he to love her--
with her hands and remained silent,   that no man should have dared gainsay."
that shot through hm brains the  ght    These are shocking sentiments, Re-
thatesh thraugh my bain, "and I have  na. I am sorry to hear you utter them.
been the cause of it!I Will my mistress- I suppose, however, oyou imbibed te
ever forgive me ?"  But, I could not  fromur   stres.ythem
speak to Master Richard thenaIsomc       m your mistress."
spaktoMstr ihad hn as I so much    "tNo, madam, no I   She never un-
desired to do, and was obliged to wait, in  closed her lips o a to s  sh  wrds
trembling patience, for an explanation. They came to me through m own sor-
It came soon enough, but it was not row and remorse. I said to myself,
not yet fully realized--my visionwas These two suited one another and their
blood and steel.zMadamy vision of     partners did not suit them. God nade
oodo and    aineel. tam, had I all that  them suitable, and what say had man in
to do over again I think I should let  thematter?  None that I can see-none
mas Id ther cours   d  t ite- o that I can understand. Their very souls
fere as I did then, to cross the path of  went forth on wings like to get acquaint-
I believe that differen tou he  now. ed. Perhaps they were married angels
goelev togtwherne two peopeight to in heaven, who knows,before they came
gooerehOr nive One hsr an rihappinter- to tis sinful earth at all!l' I said more.
fere nOur livesmo a stindho hpis  'Wudnot the husband lying in his
'ight o alomtha a thing hough he grave 'be nearer to me--more living if I
~igitof ll tht ny  od shnl bede  ha lved him well-than the husband

r
s

;'t
"        ,Y  =S
_ 'A   {}4
n °+,
-       1.  %
)t1L
ir
.r k
.} rY
sl
;  d
'  ; r,-
} -  '
, ,s .
ry, Yfn ra 4,
+ l r r
^t }
tF3:
e, 'r,
v' j e
,fY'
r ,
i  . X ,
c        -
,y
.;r3"-
3 t,?
,?,


48        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."T

49

with his head on my pillow that I did
not love? Why should men and women
be tied together like leashed hounds,
making each other wicked and woeful,
when each one could be happy, free and
independent with a mate of his or her
own choosing?' I asked myself these
questions many and many a miserable
day, when it was too late to ask them,
and I came to think that thesin against
the' Holy Ghost is to divide true love-
the unpardonable sin, madam."
I saw how unprofitable, and even un-
dignified on my part, a discussion on
this subject would be between Rena and
myself-one on which she was evidently
warped against her finer instincts; and
I sought to bring her back to her clue
of story by hazarding one remark-a
personal one, very painful to me.
" But, Rena, you have already said Mr.
Adrian had a cruel face! How could you
think he could, in any way, have contrib-
uted to the happiness of your mistressfl"
" Oh, madam, perhaps it was the false
life he led with the wife he never loved
that gave him this look and shook his
principles. With my sweet mistress,
who seemed to be his fate as ie was
surely hers, all might have been entirely
different."
" Yes, yes," I rejoined, hastily.  I
see what you mean ; but I fancy you
are mistaken."  I would have said:aI,
too, knew this man - cold, brilliant
fsacinating; and understand what h
might have been to such a woman al
Aglale Maur pas," but I was silent with
a stab in my heart, that, in ts very
poignancy of, pain, taught me to yearn
over one I had so long condemned an
censured, too stringently by half.
Already was the self-appointed court
melting before the pleadings of this hum
ble Portia, and the dread demandthef
had once been urged by the plaintiff fo
" a pound of flesh," cut from the quiver
ing heart of a rival, was repudiated no
Pity, mercy, forgiveness, were all a
work in the breast of one lng nenu
ble to either, as far as fiit ntr
could feel or offer them. The words 0
the quadroon had found their way
conviction; and the truth of her asse

tion-" the wife he never loved, and
who never suited him "-conjured up a
vision of what might have been had the
wife of " Adrian " been "Valerie," the
being of fire and air with her Cleopatra-
like variety, her resilient nature.
" Yes, this was the woman," I thought,
"who alone- could have chained his
fickle fancy and captivated his fastidious
eye and taste-perhaps even reached a
heart, undiscovered by another ! She
might have supplied the wants of his
whole nature, and developed the God
that was in him-the slumbering deity."
But, it was no time for reflections
like these. I sought to untangle a skein
and seize a clue to a story too long a
matter of mystery to me,. whose right to
such knowledge was unimpeachable.
Digression and reverie were alike out of,
place under such circumstances.
" My mistress never uncovered her face
again," continued Rena, until master
Richard touched her arm to point out
" Les Boccages," her mother's place,
that we were now approaching in the
bend of the river. The white cottage-
house, covered with multiflora vines,
was not more than a hundred yards
distant from the wood-landing, and like
a person walking in sleep, my mistress
suffered herself to be led oi shore.
We saw no one on the portico, and
when we had entered the house, all was
silent.  Then  Aunt Polly, Madame
Zavier's housekeeper, came out to re-
ceive us, and we were shown into the
library, while, at some signal from
r master Richard, she disappeared before
my mistress had time to question her,
and we were left alone, thinking she had
gone to apprise Madame Zavier.
t    "Now, cousin Richard," said my mis.
- tress, firmly, " you must tell me, before
t  I go to 'my mother's room, which of my
r, brothers is injured, and bow so, that I
may be prepared for the worst."
" Your mother is not at home, cousin
it Aglie," said my master Richard, calm-
.  ly. ",She went yesterday to Natchez,
where Francis is confined to his bed,
f (his wife had written to your mother
0to this effect,) with a fractured limb.
r- Not ill, however, by any means, for I

have just seen him. Bernard an
Jacques are with her, and Eugene, yo
know, is at Oakland Uuniversity, so tht
we find ourselves here alone, and I at
glad of it, for I have a strange reveal
tion to make to you."
She glanced at his wounded arm, an
the blood forsook her cheek. She had no
before perceived it in her bewilderment
'You have had a difficulty with mi
husband-you have killed M. Maurepas,
she cried, clasping her hands wildly
Oh, Richard, was it for me ?  I trus
'+     not-I trust not1"
"I have not seen M. Maurepas since
we parted in your presence," he mad(
answer. " My difficulty has been a very
S}ty  diffierent one," hesitating long before h
added : " I have just been to Memphis.'
As he spoke he eyed her sternly.
She uttered a long, low shriek, and
covered her face with her hands, then
looked up again suddenly, pale, tearless,
and with flashing eyes.
"What business had you there ?" she
asked, confronting him proudly with a
_ r    bitter smile. "May I take the liberty
of inquiring, Richard Zavier ?"
" I went there to anticipate your meet-
ing with. Mr. Adrian," he answered. "As
the oldest male representative of your
blood I went thither to prevent a stain
on your hitherto spotless honor." '
" And you kiled him!"   "
Her head dropped on her bosom, her
hands on her knees as she spoke, like
one utterly hopeless.
No, Aglae," said my Master Richard,
calmly. "I only tried to kill him. The
villain escaped with his accursed-life."
" This from you, Richard Zavier ?"
'fThis from me, Aglfie Maurepas."
You have brought me here on a
fool's errand," she exclaimed, passion-
ately, "but you shall not mar nay in-
tention. I will yet join Mr. Adrian !"
"Never, my cousin, never 1" shaking
his head.
Prevent me at your peril, sir !" and
she rose before him, and flashed upon him
a lo that seemed to wither him as he
stood. He staggered feebly to a chair,
fell back in it, and closed his eyes like one
about to faint. His wound was bleed-

d  ing afresh, but we did'-not know it then.
u " I shall proceed to Memphis on the
at first packet that woods at Les Boccages,"
m   said my mistress, firmly. "In the mean
a- time acquaint me, if you please, what
you mean by interfering in my literary
d engagements, and how you received in-
)t formation of my movements?   I insist
t. upon an answer to these questions. I
y hold you to account, Richard Zavier I"
"    Standing behind my mistress, I uttered
. an exclamation that made Master Richard
t look up. He caught my eye, and the
expression I read in his, prevented my
e revelation. It froze me into silence again.
e    " A letter, addressed to me, in a clerkly
y superscription" (the truth was, I had
e requested one of M. Roquette's clerks to
direct it for me, the day I mailed it my-
self,) " reached me in time to permit me
to reach Memphis before the fatal first
of December," said my Master Richard,
faintly, " and in accordance with what
I deemed my duty, I waited there the
arrival of Mr. Adrian--for such was
his assumed name. His real one you
shall never know from me, Aglae. Suf-
fice it to say, we settled our affairs
with pistols on the third, and were both
slightly wounded. He has gone home
to his wife and family, a wiser and
better man, I trust-having learned that
Southern -women are held too sacred
with their kindred to be tampered with,
by prying Yankee scoundrels. He has
gone home, Aglte, cured . of his folly,
believe me ; but not until he had signed
this paper."
He rose with a great effort and drew
from his pocket a folded document, and,
staggering feebly to the door, threw it
at her feet as he passed her. A. moment
later, just after I had picked up the
paper and handed it to my mistress who
clutched it eagerly, I heard a fall in the
corridor,~and Aunt Polly and I reached
Master Richard at the same nioment.
He was lying covered with blood and
quite insensible on - the floor. For-
tunately the neighboring physician lived
hard by, and he came very promptly
and bound Master Richard's arm, And
administered reviving remedies, and he
was soon made comfortable, though so

THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."


50        THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

weak that he did not leave his bed for
many days.             -
During all this time my mistress
never went near him, nor, indeed, when
I returned to ,tell her of Master Rich-
ard's condition, did she pay any attention
to what I said, sitting as she was like a
stone and, wholly taken up with that
fatal paper which contained Mr. Adrian's1
sworn renunciation, and which she read"
over and over with moving lips and
straining eyes until I feared it would
madden her. So, after every thing was
done for Master Richard that we could
do, Aunt Polly and I led my mistressI
to her own chamber, the beautiful blue
room which Madame Zavier kept for
guests, and placed her on the sofa drawn
up before the fire, with shawls and pil-
lows around her, while, all the time, she
looked like a-frozen creature, and felt like
one, chilly as ice as she was, lying like
a person in a dreadful dream, which is
only half believed to be real. Oh, mad-
am, that was a trying time indeed !
Aunt Polly would have brought in
the doctor who came to see Master
Richard, but I would not let her, know-
ing my mistress as I did, and feeling
sure that she would revive best if left to
herself and me. The other servants
- were all carefully excluded. The paper
Master Richard had given her she had
hidden by this time in her bosom, and
while she lived no human eye except
her own ever rested on it again.
What did it contain, Rena ?"
" I have it here madam, if you would
like to see it. I brought it purpo ly ;"
and she drew from her worn pocket-
book a paper yellowed by time, with a
signature affixed in a well-known hand.
" It was a solemn oath, as you will see,"
she pursued, " on the part of the signer,
Master Richard said, never again to see
or to hold correspondence with "Valerie,"
or the person he knew as such ; an oath
that had been compelled from him by
my Master Richard, who never told him
the name of my mistress. .,
Years afterward Deemah told me this,
but I suspected it at the time, and so did
she, my mistress I mean; and madam,
was it not strange ? She forgave him

on the strength of his cowardice, as she
never could have done for his aban-
donment. She pitied rather than scorn-
ed him for his weakness, as you might
suppose a fiery nature like hers would
not have done-she who feared nothing
on earth or in heaven, herself! That
proved to me, more than every thing
besides, the power - of her love for Mr.
Adrian.
And did she never hear from him
again, Rena? Did she never write to
him ?"
" No, madam, she never did, either
the one or the other. She believed in
keeping promises, and would not for
worlds have tempted him to break the
oath he swore to Master Richard."
" Yet, he had persuaded her to ignore
her marriage vow, Rena, as he had done
his own. This seems inconsistent."
"I heard my mistress say one day that
the Roman people struck their slaves
when they set them free, and that, in this
way she had received her freedom from
my master's own hand. She never felt
that she owed him any duty from that
moment, madam. She ceased to feel
ever after, that she belonged to him or
was his wife. As to Mr. Adrian, my
mistress had never suspected that le
was not a single man until she heard
what Master Richard said, and read
that written "renunciation ;" that was
what they called it I remember ; but, it
contained a confession besides, a con-
fession that Adrian was not his real
name, and though he mentioned no
other, that he was a married man.
After this, of course, my mistress had
nothing more to do with him in any
way ; but the whole thing was kept
secret by Master Richard's advice.
He wrote her a long letteraas soon as
ie could grasp a pen, that was the day
before Madame Zavier came home, and
strange to say it governed her behavior-
He did not urge her to go home to
Maurepas, though he advised it ; but be
ej joined her whatever she did to let no
one know what motive she had in
mang thtjuny or what Mr. Adri-
a thaento ur; and so she was
pared to meet Madame Z-avier with

r

the explanation which was surely tru
in one sense if not in another, that he
husband's ill-treatment had driven he
from a home to which she would retur
no more under aiy circumstances, eve
if compelled to make her living by th
work of her own hands. Madame Zavie
received her tenderly and tearfully, wit]
true motherhood. She who had sol(
her daughter for a price could not bea
now to have it paid, nor to take crue
blows that bruised that tender flesh, a.
part of the contract. Yet, from the firs
she might have known what must have
occurred between them, in the very na
ture of things, unsuited as they were."
"You are a philosopher, Rena."
"I don't know, madam, that I under-
stand the word, but, if it means that I
see every thing just as it is, perhaps I
am. I sometimes wish that God had
not made me'so clear-sighted," and she
shook her head, smiling wistfully.
" After my mistress came to herself,"
she resumed, "she spent much time in
considering who could have informed
Master Richard of her design of joining
Mr. Adrian at Memphis.
But for that warning glance I should
have fallen on my knees before her and
confessed the whole, but that cold, com-
manding eye rose ever before me when
I thought to speak, and the words were
stayed on my lips as if I had still been
Master Richard's presence.
"It must have been Mr. Roquette,"
she said at last, " and he obtained his
information from Frederick Tanque, no
doubt; and  your mother, I suppose,
plucked out your secret, poor Rena,
against your will, and even against your
knowledge. I was wrong to confide in
one so young, wrong to have confided
in any one, and yet, I am safe in their
hands, I feel."
"0, mistress, it was all for the best,"
I ventured to say meekly, " since you
hear now that Mr.Ady
hearla ta Mr. Adrian was a married
gentlemant"
g"In heaven there is no marriage, nor
iving in marinage, we are told, and had -
tot oer tothe worst we could have died
together," she said, casting her eyes up
adcaping her hands on her bosom.

e
e
11

THE ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."       51

1

e, "Besides, there was divorce for him as
er well as for me in that land of liberty.
er We could have waited patiently."
A " But our dear church, mistress, for-
a bids divorce, Master Richard says.
e Would you leave the Holy Catholic
r church for any man ?"
[i " Have I not told you never to ques-
d  tion me, Rena ?  Little fool, do you sup-
,r pose I need give up my church because
1 it chooses to cast me forth from its bosom
s  for a mere difference of opinion?  My
t creed is my own, and no displeasure of
e church or priest could change that.
What difference whether I went to mass
or prayed alone in my chamber before
my crucifix, as I did for years at Maur-
pas ?"
She was talking to herself, I knew,
and not-to me, so I forbore to answer.
"As for Richard Zavier," she con-
tinued, "he has crushed me as ihe would
not have done the worm in his path-as
no other living being could have doe-
can ever do again-not Adrian himself.
But, oh, my love ! it was not just in you
to forsake me thus, even though the
cruel Spanish  steel threatened your
heart's blood. Not just! Yet I thank
heaven your precious life is spared, even
if for eternal desolation."
And she shook her head sorrowfully
while tears rained down her cheeks.
Her voice was so tender when she spoke
the words, that it sounded like the
cooing of a dove; but it fired every
drop of my blood to see her weep.
"Oh, mistress," I cried passionately,
"I want you to hate Mr. Adrian, for his
mean behavior. I wish Master Richard
had killed him, before he signed that
paper."
" He has done nothing to me to make
me hate him," she said calmly. o khe
loved his life better than his troth to
me, I have no word to say. It is not
given to all men to be strong and brave,
like cruel Richard Zavier ; nor to be
constant, like wicked Maurepas." She
smiled bitterly as she spoke these words.
" Besides that, he had a wife and chil-
dren to live for.; he had no right to die
for one he had nevei' seen except in
dreams--except in dreams!", shaking


THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."      53

52       THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL.

her head again, drearily. Then she
went on : " Had he spoken lightly of me,
matters would have been different-or
even carelessly ; but he did not, or oh,
how gladly my cruel kinsman would
have told me every word. For one
such I would have slain him with my
own hand, even had I been obliged to
reach him across the mountains. But
as it is, we part in peace and love, and I
can live upon the past through all the
future."
I knewshe still kept his letters in her
sandalwood box, and that she referred
to these.
t I wonder you did not burn them,
Rena, in your practical humanity," I ob-
served.
"No, madam, no ; I knew what com-
fort they would prove to her in her
long, lonely years ; but it was an office
she performed herself one day, very sud-
denly, as you shall hear."
"Were hers never applied for, Rena ?"
" Yes, madam, I believe so, without
her knowledge though, by Master Rich-
ard; but the answer came that they had
all been honorably destroyed-each as it
was received."
I groaned aloud. Here was -another
link yet wanting in the chain of iniquity.
Those letters, with their fairy seal, and
the motto, "Ic verrois," had met the eyes
of his wife, I knew, lying 'carelessly in
his secretary, and had aided in their
mutual estrangement. That he preserv-
ed them, them efore, was a certainty, and,
perhaps, "Valerie" would have prefer-
red that he should have done so, since it
seemed she never made the slightest ef-
fort to regain them. They might have
prevented oblivion, if no more.
" What occurred after all this, Rena'"
"I will tell you, madam, if you will
take patience to follow me in my own
way, for I get all in confusion if you
want to hurry me. As my eyes saw-
and my ears heard, I speak. I can not
put it all together quick as scholars can.
I am obliged to walk step by step, up
my ladder-even crawl sometime forit
befits yo taolnownabout my mistress
you shall learn presently."

The effort Master Richard made to
write that long letter to my mistress
threw him back, I suppose, for, after
that, he was quite ill again, and the doc-
tor came and forbade him to read or
write, or to have much light in his
chamber, and made him take quinine
and port wine, and such like, and sago
jelly by the pint, fbr his appetite bad
failed, and he seemed to be fading away
for want of heart to eat, or smile, or care
for any thing.
But a great shock roused him. It was
always so with that family-the Zaviers,
I mean--they came to their feet when
the need was, sick or well, living or
dying, "equal to the emergency," as
Madame Zavier said, whatever that might
be. So that the very day after Doctor
Duroc had pronounced my Master Rich-
ard an ill man he was up and dressed and
ready to take the boat for New Orleans,
having notified Deemah to meet him with
fresh linen at his plantation landing, so
that he might accompany him below.
I was sitting at the foot of Master
Richard's bed, in the shadow, when
Aunt Folly   came  in, followed  by
Mr. Jules La Coste, one of our near
neighbors at Maurepas, who went up to
him cordially and then sat down by his
pillow, near the half-open window, be-
fore which was placed a table for his
iced-water and medicines. A crack of
light came through the parted shutters,
for Master Richard could not submit to
total darkness, and it fell on the two
faces, leaning close together as they talk-
ed, and thus I saw them.
"I have a letter for you from M.
Maurepas, Dr. Zavier," said Mr. La Coste,
suddenly, laying it on the counterpane as
he spoke-" one that requires an answer,
which I hope you will be able to make
satisfactory."
"sI am neither able to write nor read
to-day," said my Master Richard ; "but I
can hear and think as well as ever I
could; so perhaps you will do me the
avor to read this letter aloud to me, Mr.
La Coste-that is, if you already know
the contents," he added, placing his hand
upon it to wait for a reply, then remov-
ing it as Mr. La Coste said briefly :

"I do know them, I regret to say."
"Then read," said Richard Zavier
savagely.
It was a letter from my master, accus
ing my Master Richard of having per
suaded away his wife from his roof and
protection, and of having met herby ap
pointment at Natchez and gone with
her to " Les Boccages" during the ab-
sence of her mother, for wrong pur
poses, and it ended by challenging him
to fight with him a "duello," when and
where he chose, and with what arms he
might select, or to be branded as a cow-
ard forever, as well as a destroyer of
female honor ; adding that Mr. Jules La
Coste would act as his friend on the oc-
casion, and was empowered to arrange
every thing with the second of Dr. Zavier.
There was a silence in the room after
the letter had been read that lasted a
few minutes, during which you could
have heard a pin fall. Madam, I thought
the beatings of my.heart must have be-
trayed my presence, so still was the cham-
ber., and so loud: did they sound in my
own ears. But, I sat spell-bound, and
soon my Master Richard spoke in clear,
calm tones:
"I can not accept this challenge con-
scientiously, Mr. La Coste," he made re-
ply. "I have done nothing to deserve
it. I am innocent of all offense, such as
he at least would deem offense, against
the wife of M. Maurepas." '
"An explanation will, no doubt, be
thankfully received," said Mr. Jules La
Cost, eagerly. "It was in this hope,
and as the friend of both, that I under-
took this office. What shall I say to
M. Maurepas, since you are too ill to
write?  Madame Zavier tells me that
you had been with her son Francis at
his father-in-law's near Natchez, where.
his accident occurred, and advised with
his physicians on the day before you
came to Les Boccages, and that you
met Madame Maurepas on the boat by
accident--coming to visit her mother in
consequence of having received informa-
tion of her brother's injury. That state-
inent would surely suffice, in connection
with th e illness that prostrated you im-
edaey on your arrival here, during

which Madame Maurepas was of course
obliged to remain, as Doctor Duroc can
testify that you might not be neglected
- under her mother's roof. Am I empow-
- ered by you to make these assertions ?"
"I have not seen my cousin since we
- parted, an hour after our arrival, and in
the presence of witnesses, in the drawing-
room of Madame Zavier. I owe noth-
ing to her attentions," said my Master
Richard dryly, " that I am aware of, un-
l less the occasional ministry of her ser-
vant, in the absence of my own, may be
considered a proof of care on her part
(the little girl Rena, whom you may re-
member at Maurepas). Nor had I aught
to do with her voluntary exile from a
home which had, however, been any thing
but a happy one to her for years, though
I have ventured so far as to suggest her
return to it, and perhaps so offended her;
I can not tell. She has surely acted
very naturally and with perfect propriety
in taking refuge with her mother under
these adverse cicumstances. Where else
could she have gone, Mr La Coste, with
the same sense of security ?"
" She (lid not know, then, of her
brother's injury when she left home'?
She meant to abandon Maurepas ?" ask-
ed Mr. La Coste, earnestly.
"I made her acquainted on the boat
-having joined her for this purpose--
with the occurrence, and knowing her
nervous frame of mind, delayed details
until we arrived at Les Boccages, after
which I was too ill to return to Natchez,
as Iliad meant to do almost immediately,
and she had been also too much prostrat-
ed, I hear, to leave her own chamber.
This is all I have to say to M. Maurtpas.
I owe him no further explanation."
" I am afraid it will not suffice," said
M. La Coste. " I never saw a man so
indignant, and he believes you to be all-
powerful with your cousin, whether for
good or for evil."
" Then I must take the consequences,"
said my Master Richard. "Fight M. Mau-
repas I will not., Nor will any word of~
his mouth, nor of any man's, brand me
as a coward so long as I am not 6ue."
" It will be a street fight, then, Dr.
Zavier, and he will have the advantage~


54THE ROMANCEE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

of you. You know what a practiced shot
M. Maurepas is."
" I shall defend myself under such
circumstances to the best of my ability."
said my Master Richard, calmly; " and if
I perish or if I slay I shall not 'be to-
blame. In either case my conscience
will acquit me. But it is a pity to drag
a wife's good name through the gutters
in that way. Let him think of that."
" Have you shown yourself so care-
ful of that lady's good name, Richard
Zavier, that you should utter such re-
proach ?" asked M. La Coste sternly and
with flashing eyes.
" It is not to you that I have to an-
swer that question," said Master Richard
between his set teeth. " If my right arm
were not disabled you should not ask it
with impunity, Jules La Coste. As it is,
I must bear it, I suppose-at least for a
time-but do not presume too far on my
reply to M. Maurepas in your encroach-
ments, or you may find yourself deceived,
peaceable as you have so 'far found me."
" I regret to have offended where I
only meant to counsel," said M. La
Cost, mildly. " I did not know until'
now that you had met with an injury,
]r. Zavier. How did you receive it ?
Of what does it consist ?"
Without noticing either his apology
or inquiry my Master Richard went on,
raising himself on his left arm as lie
spoke, as lie had not done for days.
" Have you come here to frighten these
women to death with your tragic face
and errand ?" he asked, almost fiercely.
" In the, name of manhood I hope you
did not betray your mission to Madame
Zavier, nor-" lie hesitated.
" Nothing of the sort, Dr. Zavier.
What that lady communicated to me
was voluntary. I only sought to take
advantage of it to mend this unhappy
difference, founded on error and mis-
conception, I doubt not."
Master Richard surveyed him severely.'
Just then, watching my opportunity as
Aunt Polly entered to invite M. La Coste
to dinner, I stole away, unobserved by
all but her, and hastened to the chamber
of my mistress, to whom I rendered a
tearful and truthful account of all that I

had overheard. She, too, was roused to
action by the same shock that had
brought my Master Richard back to life.
" Get me my gray silk dress, Rena,"
she said. " I will go out to dinner to-day,
or to dessert rather, since they are already
commencing. I have a word to say to
M. La Coste before he goes. Quick,
child! No, never mind my hair. My white
lace point will cover all deficiencies. I
look like myself to-day, for the first time
since I came to Les Boccages. Rena, I
have put on my life-harness again, and
I will wear it from this hour."
" Then we shall go back to Maure-
pas," I murmured, as I scented her
handkerchief with mille fleurs, " and
we shall all be happy again."
" When the sun and the moon change
places, not before, Rena, as far as I am
concerned ; but you can go if you will.
There is M. La Coste, going to pass right
by Claireforte, where he can drop you,
if you choose, with Mr. Roquette. Say,
shall Isend you back to your mother ?"
" Oh, no I no !" I groaned, shivering
at the thought. " Maurepas would be
a dungeon to me without you. Mis-
tress, wherever you stay I will stay too,
and be happy."
"You are a good child, Rena," she
said, swallowing hard ; then suddenly
she threw her arms about me, and again
she kissed me as she had done when
we first met.
Oh, madam, that kiss sealed our com-
pact for life. It thrilled me like living
fire. I could have died happily at that
moment, so that I had died for her ;
but it was ordered differently-my ser-
vice was not that.:
" Give me my fan, Rena," she said, turn-
ing ,back at the threshold. " Cool as it
is, I am strangely faint to-day, but I must
see La Coste, and lie shall not have the
satisfaction to know that I am miserable,
and to gossip about me all through the
lake neighborhood. I will let him see
how scornfully I have turned my back on
Maurpas and all connected with it-
how entirely I have cut the Gordian knot."
Then she went forth-with the step
of a queen, and the stave of a song on
her lip, to seek the dining-room.

r   r
it
t
i

Very soon I followed her, and tool;
my place, as at home, behind her chair.
Dr. Duroc and Master Bernard Za-
vier, a boy of ten years old, were at
the table, besides my mistress and her
mother and M. La Coste, when I went
in. Every eye was turned on that beau-
tiful, joyous lady, who sat peeling her
bananas and sipping her wine as though
she had never known a care, and talk-
ing merrily fi rt to one and then the
other.
"I hope you are going to make some
stay this time at Les Boccages," said
Dr. Duroc. " When you were last here,
none of the neighbors had the glimpse
they coveted of Madame Maurepas."
"And I," said M. La Coste, gravely,
" trust, on the contrary, we shall soon
again have the pleasure of seeing Ma-
dame Maurbpas at Claireforte, where
she is missed by high and low, old and
young," and he looked at her suspi-
ciously.
I shall remain some time with
mamma, M. La Coste," said my mistress,
carelessly ; " she needs me more than
ever now that Francis has married a
wife and gone to live at Natchez, though
I can never hope to replace wholly her
dear, painstaking boy. You know lie
has met with a very sad accident lately."
" Yes, so I have heard. Iwave you
seen your brother since he received his
injury, Madame Maurepas ?"
" No ; I was too much shocked at
first to go to him, and afterward too
much indisposed. I learned quite- ac-
cidentally what had befallen him on my
way hither, through Dr. Richard Zavier."
"lHe spoke of that to-day. By the
by, lie is very sick himself, it seems.
He alluded to some injury to his arm-
of what nature is it, Dr. Duroc? .You
are in attendance, I presume ?"
" Yes; it is a sword-thrust-a flesh
wound, no more," said Dr. Duroc,
shortly, shrugging his shoulders. He
was one of those men who never liked
to be questioned about his patients, and
put aside the shop as much as possible.
" A sword-thrust," repeated Madame
Zavier, lifting her eyebrows and locking
her hands. " Why, I never heard of

that before. I had an idea it was a
shoulder-strain merely. How on earth
came Richard Zavier with a sword-
thrust ? I did not know he had an
enemy in the world."
"And neither had he, mamma," re-
joined my mistress. " It was a stab
by mistake, no doubt-not intended for
the saintly Richard Zavier."
She spoke with ill-suppressed. deri-
sion, and M. La Coate looked at her
with amazement.
" Aglite," said the mother reproving-
ly, " our kinsman is no hypocrite. We
have proved him long. "
" I am sure I have insinuated nothing
of the kind, mamma," she answered,
lightly. " Richard is all very well in
his place-out . of it, detestable. Now,
it does not suit his style at all to play
knight-errant."
" I should think not, indeed," said M.
La Coste, laughing low. (He was ac-
counted a man of honor, but, like niost
old bachelors, spiteful at times.) " I
have never thought of Dr. Zavier in the
light of a hero ; he would make a bet-
ter preacher, or priest, than any thing
else, I imagine."
" Yes, his vocation is evident,"* re-
joined my mistress, smiling. "It is a
great pity he missed it. He would
scarcely make much figure in romance,
though there is no telling I , Those med-
dlesome men try every thing in turn,
and are sometimes surprisingly success-
ful."
" Cousin Richard ought to be a sol-
dier," blurted out Bernard. " He ain't
afraid of nothing, not even ghosts 1"
He had a vague idea that his cousin
Richard needed defending at this crisis.
" That is right, Bernard-stand up
for your friends," said his mother, look-
ing reproachfully at my mistress, who
only laughed and shook her head mer-
rily in return.
" Yes, that is my motto too, mamma,"
she said, after a while ; "but we do
not always know our friends. Evda
the best of them betray us occasionally."

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL" _    55

* I have altered many of Rena's expressions,
for the sak of euphony and the style of the
narrative.--AUTHOR.


THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

" It is all very incomprehensible to
me," remarked Madame Zavier, gravely,
looking down.
But, M. La Coste and Dr. Duroc be-
ing well-bred men, feigned not to per-
ceive her cause of discontent, and were
soon discussing the new opera of Nor-
ma with my mistress, which she ad-
mired extravagantly.
All this time .a cold and deadly
sorrow was gnawing at her heart-
strings.
After dinner Dr. Duroc went to visit
my master Richard, and 19. La Coste
drew out his watch to see how long a
time must elapse before the " Seneca "
would come down from the next land-
ing, where we could then hear her
blowing off Ateam.
" She has freight to take on there, I
heard," said Madame Zavier, " and may
be detained some hours, but it is a
chance. However, we are so near the
river that she can not fail to observe
the signal flying at the woodpile, even
if she does not stop to wood with us.
So, be at ease, M. La Coste ; you shall
certainly get off."
"It has been accounted well-bred,"
said my mistress, " to welcome the com-
ing, -speed the parting, guest. But,
come into the drawing-room. I have
a word to say to you in private before
we part, M. La Coste. Mamma, excuse
us. I wish to send a message to Mau-
repas. Come with us, Rena ; you, too,
have some word, no doubt, to send to
your mother and to Frederick Tanque."
I entered, trembling. I knew what
was coming then. I was to stand up
to my testimony.
"You must have thought me very
hard on my cousin Richard, M. La Coste,
at the dinner table," my mistress began,
" but the fact is, I feel provoked with
him for bringing himself and me into
such a very absurd attitude with regard
to M. Maurtpas. My little servant over-
heard your conversation with Dr. Za-
vier at his bedside. She was sitting in
his room unperceived at the time, not
by any direction of mine, but because
she preferred to spend her leisure mo-
ients in such dutiful attendance. She

remembered with gratitude his long-
continued kindness to her at Maurepas.
In this way I have learned the history
of that challenge, and the reply of Dr.
Zavier. You must see how both must
have annoyed me. Had my cousin in-
terfered less in my affairs, (though for
my own good, he fancies,) this dragon
of jealousy would never have found a
place in the breast of M. Iaurepas.
As it is, my resolution remains unshaken
-to return to Claireforte no more.
Belle Garde Parish has seen the last of
me and I of it. I have been manu-
mitted according to the old established
Roman fashion-by a blow ; and I dis-
claim all allegiance toward him who in-
flicted it-ever a cruel master  Nay,
more-I shall seek diligently, from this
time, to wipe his very existence out of
my memory."
" A blow, Madame Maurepas -did
you"'say a blow? Did any one witness
the outrage ?"
" Two equally insignificant person-
ages, no doubt, in the opinion of M.
Maurepas-this child and the all-seeing
Father," she said, with bitter derision,
" neither of whom could or would ap-
pear against him, as lie knew, in a court
of earthly justice. But, in heaven, Mr.
La Coste, this little slave,"-laying her
hand firily on my shoulder-" will be
permitted to testify in my behalf before
the King of Kings, himself my chiefest
witness!" 
Her uplifted, beautiful face, her flash-
ing, tearful eyes, her hand pointed on
high, her proud and modest dignity,
might have melted toward her a sterner
heart than that of M. La Coste. He
gazed upon her for a time, lost in amaze-
ment and admiration, scarce knowing
what words to speak.
" Madame," he said, at last, " I came
here not alone to serve my boyhood's
friend, Leon Maurepas, but to endeavor
to heal a family breach, most painful in
itself, and distressing to many hearts.
I have ill succeeded, I fear, but what I
can do shall be done-to reconcile hus-
band and wife, friends and relatives, so
grievously divided now. In our church,
you know, no divorce is possible, and

I
l
'-.
9..'~f

it behooves married people to forget and
forgive."
"I ask, simply, a ' sep ration des biens,'
M. La Coste, which means nothing, as
far as I am concerned, but the right to
live apart in peace from my husband.
To M. Maurepas I took no dower, and
in all these years he has accumulated
nothing; I shall take little away except
this child-this slave-that he gave to
me long since by a deed that has been
recorded. I shall never return to M.
Maurepas, never look upon' his face
again if I can help it ; but of this as-
sure him, that if there is one person on
this earth I like less than he who was
my husband, that man is Richard Za-
vier. To M. Maurepas I am indifferent,
but my cousin I detest /" and the last
word came through her set teeth like
the hiss of a serpent.
I shrank from  the hand that still
lingered on my shoulder with a sudden
shiver that did not pass unnoticed by
my mistress. She grew strangely pale,
and motioned me to leave the parlor,
but she dill not remain long behind me,
and Madame Zavier had M. La Coste
all to herself on the portico for the hour
that intervened before the steamboat
came to her landing.
On the very next day my Master
Richard left "Les Boccages " without
seeking to say adieu to my mistress,
and we heard through Mr. La Coste,
that the matter had been made up
through his intervention between M.
Maurepas and Dr. Zavier without further
exposure. We seldom, saw my Master
Richard thereafter. He came only at
intervals to pay Madame Zavier some
small dividend of an interest he managed
for leer, and the interviews between the
cousins was always reserved and cold,
and conducted before witnesses. Ma-
dame Zavier attributed this estrangement
to the injudicious effort she supposed to
have been made by Richard Zavier to
reunite man and wife, and accused her1
daughter of being more implacable than
bame a Christian toward her cousin
T0o such reproaches my mistress made
noereply, and afforded no explanatiorij
Sh  ecame indeed, strangely cold and  t

. _

apathetic after the first excitement caused
by my Master Richard's difficulty with
M. Maurepas died away ; and heard of
her husband's ruin, and the approaching
sale of his effects, with a stolid indif-
ference that shocked   and  surprised
Madame Zavier, who was herself a very
sensitive woman.
For months together I never saw her
take her pen, or unclose a book, excer t
her breviary (yet she never went to con-
fessional), nor stick a needle in a bit of
embroidery, nor do any of those things
that had once so pleasantly filled her
time at Maurepas. Joy comes some-
times from small sources to the darkest
heart, however.             _
One day a man and woman came
from an upward-bound steamboat, and
opened the gate of Madame Zavier's
front yard. The man was leading a
small gray mare, beautifully caparisoned ;
the woman bore a harp in her arms
which she carried with difficulty, even
with the assistance of her companion.
' These were Frederick Tanque and
my mother, who had been purchased by
M. Landry, and were sent now,.with his
compliments, they told us, with some
articles for my mistress, presented by
the creditors, because, as was asserted,
she had in no way opposed their claims,
by setting up a right of dower as she
could have done. The first tears my
mistress had shed .for months were
poured on Calypso's neck ! There were
other articles, beside, on the steamboat
for my. mistress-her secretary, her
book-case and books, some pictures she
had loved, especially her large folding
Chinese-screen and flower-stand, her
marble bath-tub, and toilet-stand, the
chairs she had covered with her own
embroidery, her music and music-easel,
all of which she had left behind" and
beside these a case of silver.
She received these things with un-
affected delight, and I shall ever believe
her life was saved by such means, for a
gallop on Calypso, and a few hours at~
her harp, never failed to revive her when
all other means had failed.
Madam, my mistress was ignorant
*hen as I was, of the true reading of

THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."    5 7


58        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."                          THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."     59

the law. In Louisiana, marriage is a
partnership, and there is no right of
dower-she only knew a part of her
legal rights. Years afterwards Deemah
told me, what he alone knew, that my
Master Richard had caused these things
to be bought in at sale for my mistress,
as if at her own request and expense,
and had obtained leave from M. Landry
to send them up by her old slaves, as a
solace to her feelings.
They remained with us a fortnight
by permission. After that I never saw
my mother. She died very soon after
her return to Maurepas, which M.
Landry had bought for his eldest 'son ;
and Frederick Tanque perished in re-
bellion against his master-the sternest
slaveholder in all the Belle Garde Parish
-fighting in the swamps as I have told
you. But in truth, my step-father had
been noted always for his overbearing
temper, and M. Maurepas was the only
man who could ever have governed
him, for he was his foster-brother and
his master in the true sense of the word
-the man he loved with all his faults,
even more than he feared him, until
estrangement cane, for a time, after that
cruel punishment of mine.
" What became    of your master,
Rena ?"
" Madam, he led a wicked life in New
Orleans, among the gamblers, and man-
aged to get along in some poor way. I
never saw him again until his high
spirit was broken and his health was
gone. Then I befriended him to the
best of my poor ability. I was free,
then-married to Deemab, who had his
own time from Dr. Richard Zavier, with
permission to buy himself whenever he
made enough money, which he did be-
fore many years. So we were happy
together, with our children growing
around us, and were glad to serve my
master in his misfortunes, as was our
duty, seeing that he had no friend nor
money left."
"A truly Christian return, Rena, for
all the ill-usage you had received at his
hands ; but, was your mistress content
to be wholly dependent on her mother ?
Did she never regain her energies ?"

Yes, madam, in the course of time;
and she obtained an engagement wilh
one of the New   Orleans papers-the
Delta, I think-and wrote an article
every week, and drew her money for it,
but she no longer signed herself 'Valerie'
as she used to do, but simply 'Aglae,'
which, indeed, was the name she was
best known by, and which seemed most
natural to niy ears and eyes."
" And did she ever forgive Richard
Zavier ?"
" Never, madam, as long as she had
her will about her. I never heard her
speak his name except when she spoke
to himself, which she always did politely
when he came to see her mother. He
took it hard, I think, but he never com-
plained, and was firm as a rock, frozen
up though as it seemed, even to his
smile."
" And Mr. Adrian-what of him ?"
"" Oh, she never named his name
neither, but I know she thought of him
all the same. She wore his picture next
her heart, and kept his letters carefully
in her little sandal-wood box,4and some-
times she looked over them, but on
those days, she shut herself up in her
room and no one saw her face-not
even Bernard the little brother that she
loved the most. When we had been
about two years with Madame Zavier,
Master Jacques was drowp.ed while fish-
ing in Bayou River, and there was great
distress in the. house, for he was the
favorite son of his mother-a bright,
noble-looking boy of about fifteen; and
with more brains in his head than all
the rest of the sons put together-so
Master Richard thought ; but my mis-
tress loved Bernard best, with his sweet
girlish face and tender ways, blue eyes
and waving brown hair, so like his
mother, while all the rest were Zaviers,
my mistress as well-Spanish from the
eyes to the heels. I believe it was her
nature to love every one of that light
complexion, so unlike herself. It was
that taste, perhaps, that drew her so
strongly to M. Adrian after she saw hie
likeness, but, as far as I have seen, folks
of that sort are cold and cruel-minded."
" Not always, Rena. You have been

THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

58

II-W
,rkfyt
4 te
flrs2
rtS ,IA

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

unfortunate in your observations, that is
all. But tell me, did your mistress re-
ceive much society in the house of her
mother, or lead the life of a recluse ?"
" Neither, madam. She never refus-
ed to come into the drawing room to
welcome her mother's friends; but if a
gentleman called on her alone she re-
fused to see him.  Judge Eustis was_
madly in love with my mistress and she
knew it, and he would have moved
heaven and earth to get a decree of di-
vorce for her if she would have consent-
ed. Even Madame Zavier implored her
to let him proceed-Catholic as she was
-but my mistress gave always a cold
denial, and from the time that lie sug-
gested the subject, never spoke to Judge
Eustis again. Yet he was a very hand-
some man, not more than thirty-three, a
young widower with one child, and pos-
sessed of the finest estate in that parish."
" I suppose lie wanted the right color-
ing, Rena ?"
" Yes, madam," she rejoined, gravely,
"lhe was was a true Southerner, dark and
pale, but with chestnut hair, and steel-
gray eyes, very noble-looking we all
thought- a man who could put one
hand on his saddle and vault on his
horse, and guide him like a lamb after-
ward. His slaves were devoted to him;
one word from his mouth was all any of
them needed, and he always acted for
their good."
"It is truly a pity your mistress
could not have fancied him, Rena."
." I loved her the better for it, madam
-I did, indeed, this faithfulness of hers."
" But Adrian, at that time, was a mere
shadow, Rena, a phantom of her im-
agination. There could have been no
reality about the feeling."
" Oh, madam, she was not like other
people ; she only needed something to
dream about. I doubt sometimes whether
she would have been happy as the wife
of any man after she found out faults
and follies such as all men have ; but still,
I may be mistaken, and if ever man and
woman were made to love each other, it
surely was my mistress and Mr. Adrian."
Rena's inconsistency warned me to
desist from all further attempt at argu-

ment, so I suffered her to proceed in her
own way.
There was an interval of trunk-pack-
ing, I remember, during which she
sighed frequently, as if oppressed by
thought, and shook    her head from
time to time in a sorrowful and, absent-
minded fashion, that ill comported with
her careful folding and placing of my
garments. When all was over she set-
tied herself again on a low seat, to con-
tinue her narrative, now evidently fast
drawing to a close. I knew more of the
catastrophe than she supposed, and was
more closely interested than she could
imagine in tracing, step by step, the
events that led to so disastrous a con-
clusion.
To hear these related by truthful and
unsophisticated lips was my chief ob-
ject in seeking her acquaintance, for her
character for uprightness and singleness
of purpose had preceded her advent to
my lodgings.
Rena was, at the time I write of, a
woman of thirty-five years of age, and
the mother of grown-up daughters-
though she seemed ydunger for her years
than white women usually do, owing to
the thick and velvety texture of the
quadroon skin, which resists, with its
clay-colored opaqueness, the action of
sun and storm. She had, too, fine teeth,
clear dark eyes, an agreeable smile, small
features, and an oval face, entirely sad in
repose.
There was about her something of re-
finement which was rare in one of her
class and grade, and her movements
were, like those of many of her race,
marked with a certain undulating, supple
grace that enchained the eye.
She wore the bright-colored head-ker-
chief and large gold ear-rings common to
the mulatto of the south, and" though
well chosen as to color and effect, her
garb was homely as became her condi-
tion. The only mark of luxury I ob-
served about her was in the constant use
of a fine and, speckless linen cambric
handkerchief, sometimes slightly lace-
trimmed, which she handled as ladies
alone usually manage these articles-
mere necessities to the well-bred and

59


60        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

luxuries to the vulgar. It was plain to
see that Rena had been early accustomed
to the accessories of refinement. On her
bosom reposed a crucifix of gold, the
symbol of her faith, into which, despite
her nearly white complexion, a little of
the Fetish spirit entered. Her mother,
she had informed me, was of Obi origin,
or rather ancestry, and the strain of
blood was still evidenced in this remote
descendant of magicians.
PART      V.C.
"I HAD meant to tell you, madam,"
said Rena, lifting her eyes to mine, after
a long interval of silence, " what a con-
solation my mistress was to her mother
after Master Jacques' death. She seemed
to forget her own troubles in the sorrow
of Madame Zavier, and their hearts came,
very near together for the first time since
the marriage of my mistress. Before that
evil period she had loved her mother very
devotedly, far more than her splendid
father, whose picture she. so closely re-
sembled herself ; but cold shadow had
crept between them after she was " bar-
tered away," as she always felt it, " sold
for Les Boccages," she would say some-
times, as if trees and flowers could repay
her for the sacrifice of a human soul
and the blood and body of the child !
It was not often my mistress spoke so
bitterly-only when she was pressed to
the wall by M. Maurepas--for, as I have
said, she was happy in her own gifts,
before the serpent of the " Green Seal "
dragged himself across her pathway.
But I had learned from such words how
her heart was weaned from her mother,
and how she had resented her exile
from home and friends.
All this was over now, and she for-
gave Madame Zavier entirely, and went
back to the old confidences and affec-
tions she bore her when a little child.
They had lived at " Les Boccages" only
in the summer time, during the life of
M. Frangois Zavier, but she had always
loved it, partly, I used to think, because
Master Richard was her playmate there.

The death of Master Jacques, so sud-
den and sorrowful, had softened all her
nature, as it seemed to me---unsealed
some spring that had been stopped up
before ; and that inward happiness came
back to her, that I told you about, which
made her so satisfied at Maurepas, and
she enjoyed every thing with a fresh
delight.
She ordered the laying out of a par-
terre, and selected the flowers, and helped
to plant them herself, for Madame Zavier
suffered no idle hands about her house,
where all was frugality and care, but
kept her people, with very few excep-
tions, employed in her cotton-fields, from
whence came all her livelihood. Hers was
a small place at best, and it was as much
as she could do from its proceeds to sus-
tain her household and educate her sons.
But, she was a famous manager, quiet
as she seemed, and provided well for all.
No more " Cobbler of Brusa " illumina-
tions now!    A pair of wax candles
nightly, were all my mistress afforded
herself, and these she bought with her
own money. The old mistress used
myrtle candles of her own making,
which were almost as clear as Bougies,
and smelt delightfully, but my mistress
complained that the odor sickened her
and made her faint, and she had her
own way.
I remember well, however, how at
Maurepas, she had always burned a
myrtle wax night's taper, out of respect
for old usages, and she had a notion then
that the smell was healthy, and kept off
headache, the only sickness she suffered
from in those happy days."*
" Happy days, Rena"?  How can you
call those days happy that you have
described to me as so bitter and intole-
rable ? I should think you would have
been far happier at Madame Zavier's,
away from cruel Maurepas."
* The myrtle wax candle is made from the se-
rum of the myrtle-berry, a substance closely re-
sembling parafine, mingled with therein othe
tur eua to wax; and, in burningthes'etcandle
emit a delicious aromatic odor, which Is suppos-
aitocratic fam ilis ucise tese candles (ah musk
lng of which in perfectness is an art not easil
acqatired)1in preterence to Bougies, as Hena-la

61

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

' 1'
h} )

"No, madam, no; my happiest days
and hers were spent at Maurepas, in spite
of the ill-usage we now and then received.
There we had hope, at least, and security
from strangers, and we enjoyed our times
of peace all the more for the little
storms we encountered sometimes. Be-
sides, it was the rightful home of my
mistress, and mine ; and there is much
in that. She was always first at Man-
repas, as she could not and did not wish
to be in any other house, even her moth-
er's."
"'True, true, Rena; those are consid-
erations ; but violence and insult are
insufferable."
"She found them so, and gave up all
the rest on that account ; but I shall
ever think my master's money-troubles
were maddening him when he struck
her, and she did not love him enough to
make allowance for them."
"Yet, you say she seemed happy
again, Rena, after your Master Jacques'
death had softened her nature ?"
"Yes, happy, but in a different way-
more calm, more quiet, more patient,
then at Maurbpas, but not half so bird-
like and joyous. She gave more atten-
tion to her religious duties than she had
done before, and when we were in New
Orleans stayed with her old teachers and
went to the confessional for the first time
in years. It did her good, I think."
" Did she accompany Madame Zavier
to the city ?"  ,
"No, she went alone, and about her
own affairs, and made her home with
her aunt, the Abbess Magdalene. When
I say alone, I mean without friend or
escort. She took me with her, of course.
My mistress went down to the city to
sell her diamonds (the last gift her father
had made her), for her mother's benefit.
The year that master Jacques was
drowned, the cotton-crop failed at Ma-
dame Zavier's place, owing to overflow ;
and two of her best hands died of fever,
and she, the proudest woman you ever
saw, scarcely knew where to turn for
assistance. So without saying a word
to any one about her situation, my mis-
tress took her casket of jewels and went
dowvn to see the jewelers in New Or-

leans and sell her diamonds. She car-
ried them all the way in her own sachel,
for fear of an accident to the boat, when
baggage would be abandoned even if life
was saved, and slept with them under
her pillow. But we reached our des-
tination safely, and before night . my
mistress had deposited in bank forty-five'
hundred dollars to the credit of Madame'
Maria Zavier, having retained three hun-
dred for her own expenses. The dia-
monds had cost over five thousand.
"Now. Eugene will not be obliged to
leave Oakland College," she said, with
joy sparkling in her eyes, when we were
alone, that evening, in one chamber;
"and my mother will not be compelled
to ask advances from commission mer-
chants-those cormorants of the earth-
or go in debt for supplies for her negroes
and household. I never knew what an
immense sum forty-five hundred dollars
was, before, Rena-the price of a single
cashmere shawl I saw to-day I But, my
dear mother has taught me how much
comfort may be had for little money
when judiciously disposed. I used to
be as extravagant as my poor father,
and fearfully inconsiderate about expend-
iture."
" Oh, mistress," I ventured to rejoin,
"I am sure you never asked for much,
and what my master chose to buy for
you with his own money' you had a
right to take and keep. You stayed
mostly at home, and never wore such
fine clothes or drove so fine a carriage
as the rest of the lake ladies."
" That is true," she said, clasping her
hands in that solemn, childish way she
had ; " but, remember those illumina-
tions ! Many a poor mother would be
thankful for an inch of candle to see her
child's dying face by, and I flared out
dozens every night at Maurbpas, with
open windows and the wind blowing
across the room. It is a matter of seri-
ous self-reproach to me."
I could scarcely keep from smiling-as
she said these words, but I managed to
be grave, for, just.then, the holy bishop
knocked at the door, coming to talk
with her an hour before administering
the sacrament which she was to take


62        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."  .

the next day at the cathedral. I sat
very quietly in one corner while he re-
mained, and felt greatly consoled my-
self by his pious advice and conversa-
tion. Not once was the name of M.
Maurepas mentioned by either one. -
On our way to the cathedral, the
next morning, we met M. Maurepas,
face to face. I never knew before what
metal my mistress was made of. She
passed him with her vail up, without
moving a muscle of her face, or chang-
ing color in the least ; but he reeled
from one side of the pavement to the
otlker, and staggered like a- drunken
man, turning red and pale in quick suc-
cession, and at last leaning against the
wall of the cathedral for support. I
saw him there as we went up the steps,
but my mistress never seemed to have
noticed him at all ; and but for a re-
mark of mine later, I might have be-
lieved that she had not, seen him as she
passed.
" My master had a very distressed
look," I said, when I was undressing.
her that evening ; " did you not think
so, mistress ?"
" Have you a master any longer, Re-
na ?  I thought you had only a mistress
now."
" M. Maurepas, I mean-your hus-
band, my own dear mistress, that we
met on Jackson square to-day, as we
went up to the cathedral." I, could not
forbear bursting into tears, for, with all
his faults, I pitied him from the bottom
of my heart. Not so my mistress.
" He has cause to be thankful to God,"
she said, in a hard, cold voice, " that lie
is permitted to expiate his ill-conduct in
this world rather than the next ; else,
everlasting hell-fire might be his portion.
That man is nothing to me, Rena; never
mention him again in my presence ;"
and she went on reading the book the
bishop had sent her, as calmly as though
we had not spoken of M. Maur pas.
Then I knew that what she had said
was the bare truth, and no boastful fancy,
madam. I knew that my niaster was
dead to her for ever, and that she had
-indeed " wiped him out of the tablets of
her brain." Those were her words, I

remember.   She always said things dif-
ferent from other people. One thing I
learned, however : that, from that day,
my mistress always wore that small,
sharp poniard she had carried so much
at Maurepas, but laid aside of late.
"I will be prepared for him," she mur-
mured, "if ever he lays his hand on me
again, either in wrath or kindness. One
would fare as ill with him as the other"
-and that old look flashed in her eyes
once more.
When we went back to Les Boccages,
my mistress told her mother what her
errand had been in New Orleans, and
Madame Zavier was greatly touched and
comforted at this proof of pious con-
sideration.
They were very happy together, mad-
am, for a season; and every one in and
about the house was devoted to my mis-
tress, and, through her, to me ; but
somehow my heart was mostly sad at
Les Boccages. I felt from the first as
my mistress said she always did before
a thunderstorm-as if something was
coming to crush me-and every new
sound, or sudden   arrival, made me
tremble.
My greatest joy was on those rare oc-
casions when my master Richard and
Deemah would come for a few days.
It was like the sunshine breaking through
cold, gray clouds to nie, to see those
friendly faces-one so noble and beau-
tiful, the other so honest and affectionate.
It was in this way I got accustomed to
and finally attached to Deemah, though
I never knew what it was to love him,
or any one-"   She hesitated, then add-
ed, in low tones, as if of soliloquy: "who
could or would stoop to love me again 1"
For a moment her face was clouded
and downcast; then, rousing herself as
from reverie, she proceeded with re-
newed energy.
I think I have brought you pretty
well up to the time, madam, when the
steamer Geraldine exploded opposite to
the plantation of Madame Zavier. It
was a perfect wreck ; half of the pas-
sengers were killed, and the rest more
or less fearfully injured. There were
boats employed for many hours in

ry
31,
-             a
a1
tce
s  i1
tyM .
x   3 4 2
ut F
it
s{ 5
? trt
"
c      a4l      s
' 114C Y  i;  ;

rescuing sufferers from the water. Some
of these were brought to our landing,
and, as the house of Madame Zavier
was not large, she had her cotton-gim
hastily fitted up as a hospital. It was
April, and most of the cotton had been
baled and sent off, so there was ample
accommodation for all. She herself,
her women and Dr. Duroc, moved
among them constantly, dressing their
wounds and ministering to their wants
for several days.
My mistress would have gone also to
help care for them, had not an object
that required all her attention detained
her at home. Just as she had opened
the gate to go down to the cotton-gin, a
man staggered in, with singed hair and
a blackened face, holding up two terri-
bly scalded hands before her, and im-
ploring her to suffer him to go to her
house and receive immediate attention.
She did not hesitate, but taking him by
one arm, motioned to me to support
him by the other, and thus we led him,
groaning at every step, back through
the garden walks we had just traversed,
and so up the long steps of the portico
and into the ell room, in wichl gentle-
men were always lodged. Aunt Polly
was called, and his wounds were dressed
with linseed oil and flour, and he was
placed in bed, which trembled under
him  as the pain shook his frame. I
never saw any one suffer as he did ; but
he was soon asleep under a strong opi.
ate, anid awoke refreshed. From  that
time he began steadily to improve.
His face was quite uninjured, as we
found after washing away the soot that
almost covered .it, but his hair was
burnt off quite close to his head. His
very eyebrows had been scorched. His
hands healed rapidly under our simple
treatment, and a fortnight from the time
of his arrival, Mr. Marstyn was able to
show his white teeth, and laugh and
talk with my mistress and Madame Za-
vier. His golden-brown curls were com.-
mencing to twist themselves again, and
his eyebrows looked quite natural. We
saw that he was a very handsome gen-
tleman, young and gallant-mannered,
aid lull of life.'

But, for all, I used to wonder what it
was my mistress saw in him to make
her cling so to his pillow, and study his
face so earnestly, even when he lay fast
asleep, or why she hung on every word
he spoke, talking but little herself, yet
full all the while of a sort of fluttering
anxiety that made her color go and come
like a flame, and her eyes as bright asstars,
But, one day, I saw her when he had
dropped to sleep (for he was still weak,
and would doze off suddenly, even while
others were speaking or reading to him),
draw from her bosom the miniature of
Mr. Adrian, and, glancing rapidly for a
time from one to the other, put it up at
last very suddenly, when lie roused from
slumber, yet with a satisfied smile.
Madam, I knew from that hour, as
well as she did, what thought had en-
tered her mind, but I never breathed it.
to a soul. I had determined, long be-
fore, never again to come between my
mistress and, her happiness, whatever
that might be, and, even if master Rich-
ard had questioned me himself, I am
sure I should have kept my resolution.
But he did not come, just then, and I
had no temptation to speak to any one
but her.
" Mistress," I said one night, not long
after this observation, "I wonder when
Mr. Marstyn   is  going  away?    It
seems to me he stays a long time for
such a stranger. I thought he was go-
ing to Mexico to join the army ?"
Wonder on," she said, without rais-
ing her eyes from her breviary, "but
take heed how you talk. Above all,
ask me no questions, Rena. I will not
suffer it." Then she smiled, well pleas-
ed I saw, although her words were stern.
" I wish he would go," I continued,
nothing daunted," before master Richrard
comes. I am so afraid that my vision
will come true then-my vision of
blood and steel."
"Little witch ! you are a clairvoy-
ant I believe," she said, glancing up,
quickly, with a suppressed smile upon
her lips. " Now, Rena, tell me true,
what is it you suspect ?" shutting her
book, suddenly.
"Oh, mistress," I said, dropping the

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL"       63


64        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

comb I held, and clasping my hands as
I fell on my knees before her. " Re-
member what dear master Richard said
about your 'evil genius'-I mind his
very words-and be done with the
'Green Seal' serpent for ever ! Don't let
Mr. Marstyn know that you are'Valerie."'
"What a demure duenna I have in you,
Rena," she said, laughing merrily ; "and
what makes you suppose Mr. Marstyn
would care to know? Strangely enough,
however, I had come to the same reso-
lution myself;. so now, get up from your
sacrificial position-or is it penitential?
and resume your comb, and don't tangle
my hair in your bewilderment, nor pull
it from sheer spite, as you sometimes
do; and, mark me, Rena, let your own
lips be sealed as closely as those letters
were that used to come to me at Maure-
pas, with their serpent signets-those
precious letters, every word of which is
written here, and here."
And she laid her hand upon her heart
and head.
"Will you be divorced now, mistress ?"
I asked, peeping round into her face, af-
ter the silence of a few moments. "You
can, if you like, Mr. Eustis said, you
know," and I simpered outright.
"Are you crazy, Rena? or, do you
wish to make me so?   Little pest ! if
you hazard another remark, either to
me or others, I'll send you to live with
Mrs. Francis Zavier, at Natchez, and
make you nurse her little cross, teething
baby. There ! I hope you will learn
discretion from that threat. One more
dire could hardly be conceived."
"And what would you do without
me, mistress ?" I questioned, saucily.
You see how she had spoiled me, mad-
am! She answered me with a clear,
ringing peal of laughter, such as I had
not heard burst from her lips since we
had left Maurepas.
" What, indeed ?" she asked, sadly, the
next minute ; and she wiped tears from
her eyes that might have flown from
mirth. Then there was silence for a while.
" Rena," she said, suddenly turning
upon me gravely, " it is just possible that
God has yet great stores of happiness
reserved for me. I have discovered that

Marstyn loves me and I love him. He
is a widower; I know from what he
told my mother. When she asked him
whether she should write to his friends
concerning his condition, he replied
that he had none near enough to care
for him, except two or three little chil-
dren too young to understand matters--
so I know that his wife is dead. It is
probable that before many months I,
too, shall stand free in the sight of man
as I now am in the sight of God ; and
then-we shall see, Rena, we shall see.
' Oui, je verrois.' In the meantime, he
is unacquainted with my real name.
They call me Madame Aglae, you know,
at my own request, and I know that my
mother has waived his inquiries. He
would not stoop, of course, to question
servants, even if he had an opportunity.
My black dress has satisfied'him of my
widowhood, and I told him that I was
poor. Under these circumstances, it re-
mains to be seen what he will do. He
has not yet asked me to be his wife,
but I think-i think-he will before
many days are over. Then  lhe will
leave ' Les Boccages' for a season, Rena,
but not to go to Mexico. Oh, no! I
have convinced him what an iniquitous
war it is-of aggression and intrusion,
and he has promised me to resign his
commission in the army. But all this
is a profound secret, so far, Rena, and
you arg not to tell even Aunt Molly."
Then I promised her, kneeling down
before her crucifix, to be silent as the
grave, and I tried to rejoice with my
mistress. But my heart misgave me.
I know not how or why, but I trembled
from the first.
"As to Richard Zavier," she , said,
when her toilet was completed, and
beeutiful she looked that day in her
white India dress and lace scarf, and
the oleander blooms in her hair, with
the deep flush on her cheek that made
her splendid always when it came. " As'
to Richard Zavier, should he dare to in-
terfere again with my arrangements,
whatever they may be, I will slay him
with my own hand." .
-And she clenched the jeweled handle
jof that poniard, speaking through her

clenched teeth, while her eyes blazed, and
grew like stars about to shoot.
" Oh, don't, mistress !" I cried, clasp-
ing my hands before my eyes, and
shrieking feebly ; " don't make such
threats against dear master Richard 1"
"Then let him   beware 1" she said,
grimly; and so, she passed from her
chamber to enter that of the man who
was her fate.
"Fate, Rena?   How can you sup-
pose there was anything in an accidental
meeting like theirs?  They had already
proved their fate as far as that went-
and should have been content to let
chance alone."
" No, madam, it was fate from first
to last; and now that all was quiet and
likely to remain so, the river throws him
from its breast, you see, down at the
feet of the- woman he had sworn to re-
nounce. How could he help himself if
lie loved her, not even knowing that she
was his 'Valerie ?' and who can blame
her if she loved him, knowing full well
that lie was her own 'K. Adrian?' I,
for one, madam, believe their fate was
fixed, and there is nothing left but to
pity them."
And she sat for a while like some
prophetess  carved  in  yellow  sand-
stone.
" She loved him," she began, shaking
her solemn head, "as she could never
have loved any one else-as God meant
she should love him alone, and he wor-
shiped her. Yet, he never asked her
to be his wife until the very day before
that he had fixed upon his departure.
He was quite restored now; he had the
perfect use of his hands, and was vigor-
ous and joyous as a child just let loose
for a holiday. His face was a very
beautiful one, I thought, with clear-cut
features and a broad white forehead,
over which short, thick curls clustered,
of golden brown ; and large, brilliant
blue eyes, like a frosty sky in winter ;
and a smile as sudden and bright as a
burst oi sunshine at first, but cruel when
it lingered. You recollect that smile,
madam, for, of course you knew from
the beginning when I mentioned his
true name, who Mr. ffartesn was."

"Oh, yes, Rena, that was the only
name I ever knew him by."
My carelessness disarmed her and she
went on. "She loved him," she re-
peated, " and he worshiped the ground
she walked on. I know the true signs
of true love, even if it never came to
me; and I knew that, in his way, Mr.
Marstyn loved my mistress as well as
ever Master Richard did in his; but
their natures were different. His ways
were far more winning, and he made
more outward sign of feeling than my
master Richard ever could have done,
even if he had been a lover instead of a
dear brother."
It was beautiful to see how jealously
the' quadroon guarded her master Rich-
ard's secret-with -what reverence she
regarded him and his honor.
" So it went on, as I have said, until
the last day of his tarrying at Les Boc-
cages.
Then he spoke out, free and full, and
asked the consent of Madame Zavier to
his courtship.
" Has Aglae consented to marry you,
Mr. Marstyn ?" asked her mother, with
amazement, " that you appeal to me?
She is her own mistress, you know-in
one way being a wife separated from
her husband by act ofrlaw ; but there
has been no divorce-and Monsieur-"
" Never name that name, mother, if
you love me," said my itshtress, clasping
her hands wildly above the lips of
Madame Zavier. " It is sufficiently ex
plained. You have promised me never
to call that fatal name again in any
connection with me. Oh, mother dear"
-falling upon her neck-" you shall
have all my reasons later. I shall tell
Mr. Marstyn every thing, too, when the
right time comes. Help me to preserve
my little mystery now."
"And do I understand," he asked
gently, " that you are not a widow by
death, but only by inclination? Ah I
so much the better I'There will be no
regrets to struggle against. But, yon
say, Madame Zavier, this divorce can be
readily obtained. Why then has it been
deferred so long ?"
She then explained to him the op

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."         65

3
J7Jj'
9


66        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."      6

position of the church, and her daugh-
ter's determination hitherto to submit
to its decrees.
"But that is all over, dear mother,"
said my mistress, eagerly. " The church
-all else fades into nothingness com-
pared to him," and she extended her
hand to Mr. Marstyn, who, seizing it,
covered it with kisses.
" All demonstration like this must be
deferred for a time," said my mistress,
withdrawing her hand and blushing
vividly. " I forgot that I am not yet
free. Go, and-when you return I will
receive you as my heart dictates."
"But, Aghe, my child," Madame
Zavier remonstrated, " this gentleman is
but a stranger to us.  What can you
know of him ? How is it possible this
love can have sprung up so speedily
between you ?"
" Mother, mother, how long did it
take you to learn to love my father,"
asked my mistress, archly. She well
knew the history of the brief courtship
and devoted affection of her parents.
Still, Madame Zavier seemed sad and
uncertain. As she turned to leave the
parlor, Mr. Marstyn said to her:
" Madame Zavier, it is only natural
you should feel as you do about this
matter. You have, I know, your house
engagements now, but come when you
are at leisure. I will defer until then a
confession I was about to make to your
daughter alone. It is one due to you
both, and involves the only mystery of
my life, but it places us on equal ground
at least. When that is cleared up all will
be serene and open between us three. For
the rest, believe me, I have not wooed
your daughter without the ability to
sustain and support her as becomes her
gentle breeding. My fortune is no con-
temptible one, Madame Zavier, let me
assure you."
"There are many things beyond for-
tune, I have learned to think," she said,
turning at the door. " Nevertheless, I
confess I am pleased to hear that your
means are sufficient. I will return this
afternoon, as you propose, to penetrate
your mystery. We shall dine in the
interval, and Dr. Duroc is expected to

join us with his wife; so it may be best
to defer our family conference until after
their departure."
So saying, she departed, cold and
mournful. She had never liked Mr.
Marstyn, I saw from the beginning ; but
this you know is 'often the case between
two people of that color. It had not
surprised me.
"What a physiologist you would
make, Rena !"
" I don't know, madam, what that
long word means-nothing evil I hope.
I only know what my eyes and ears tell
me. They never deceive, you know,
when you are only a looker-on and a
hearer. It is different, of course, when
you come to feel."
" To be an actor, in short, Rena."
" I thought actors only spoke the
words they read out of the play-books,"
she said with a literal simplicity that
broke out singularly ever and anon, be-
yond all the usages of her outer life.
It was the wisdom of her inner life.
Explanation or\ discussion were alike
useless if not impossible here; so I suf-
fered her to pursue the thread of her
story, without further interruptions.
My mistress passed the morning, in
the drawing-room with Mr. Marstyn and
other company, and when Dr. Duroc
and his wife had returned home, after
the three o'clock dinner, that Madame
Zavier always gave her family, the
long April afternoon was drawing to a
close.
It was then that my mistress went
with her mother to the morning parlor,
where they sat usually when alone-a
small room opening to the veranda,
lined with books, though they never
called it a library-to join Mr. Marstyn,
and hear from him the confession he had
promised them to make in the morning.
I was called to bring iced water, and re-
mained, sitting on a low stool in the cor-
ner, without attracting observation. It
was my habit to do this with the appro-
val of my mistress whenever I so de-
sired. On a sofa, so placed that one
end was in shadow, sat Mr. Marstyn and
MadamO Aghle; Madame Zavier occupied
a fauteuil at a little distance, somewhat

behind Mr. Marstyn, I remember, so that
my mistress could see her face across her
shoulder and his also, though her own
was only to them a dark outline. They
,faced the windows, through which the
setting sun was streaming; but her back
was turned to these, so as to screen her
effectually from scrutiny.*
Thus every change on Madame Za-
vier's countenance was observed by my
mistress, and these, oh, madam ! never
have I seen grief, scorn, terror so vivid-
ly portrayed as on that lady's face while
Mr. Marstyn made his confession, or
rather narrated his experience; but he
could see nothing of this, of course,
either on one countenance or the other,
from the way in which he was sitting.
And so he went on, nothing dream-
ing, nothing suspecting, to the awful end
-the end of all to him; but you know
all that, perhaps, better than I can tell
you.
"No, ho, Rena, proceed, I know only
the catastrophe. I ask for more. I
would be just, even if I can not be gen-
erous."
The carelessness of my tone and man-
ner had their effect. Indeed, the time
was over when passion could have
been awakened by this recital; but I
earnestly desired to know facts which as
yet I had not been able, beyond. a few
very apparent ones, to clearly ascer-
tain.
I desired to learn what steps had led
to a tragedy that had, at one time, ex-
erted a very disastrous influence on me,
but which I had learned to believe had
in the end infinitely improved the pur-
pose of my destiny.
"Go on, Rena," I said, "let me hear
what Mr. Marstyn had to say for himself
on this occasion ; lie must have been
very ingenious to be able to set up any
defense against his past ill- conduct-
that is, if le frankly acknowledged every
thing."
"rMadam, you shall hear all of what
Mr. Marstyn told my mistress ; I can
* Again in this place I must -apoo'ze for de-
parin so widely from Rena's styleof narrative,
whca can not always confine myself to, or even
recall, though occasionally it returns vividly to
mny mind.

never forget one word of that recital.
You see it was printed on my brain
with fire, as people make likenesses
now, with only the sun to help them--
stamped in a moment,but like to last a
life-time."
"Photographed, Rena. I understand
you; the simile is good. I have receiv-
ed electric impressions, myself, in the
same way sometimes, yet with every de-
tail perfect."
" My mystery is simply this," said Mr.
Marstyn. " Yet it is strangely coinci-
dental with that of. Madame Aglhle
whose second name I shall demand pre-
sently, in return for my own confidence.
I, too, am a widower with a living wife.
I, too, am entitled to a divorce, I am
assured by my attorneys, which the courts
are ready to grant me at any moment
on the plea of cruel desertion. Three
years ago my wife left my bed and board
without sufficient reason, and withdrew
her children from my roof. I returned
fr6m a journey to find my home deso-
late, my family flown!l Remonstrance,
explanation, were of no avail. My wife
obstinately refused to hear me or to re-
turn to me, having found shelter in
her father's house in a neighboring State.
Yet she claims. no divorce herself, and
is content to wear her marriage yoke to
the grave, and let me go free."
" That is because she still loves you,
Mr. Marstyn," said my mistress, eagerly.
" Your wife is a true woman, no doubt;
but what was your offending ?"     s
" No, it is herself she loves, not me,"
said Mr. Marstyn. "She worships ex-
pediency and propriety, and ignores her
husband's claims ; but I can not aver,
truthfully, that I have ever loved her, or
craved greatly heir affection. So that
there is even less excuse for this behavior
on her part from the causes she alleges,
than if warmer relations had existed.
A few letters, a few half-founded reports,
were enough to shake the foundations of
her conjugal fidelity-matters which a
true wife would have sifted thoroughly
before believing, and even if substantiat-
ed would have, after a season, forgiven
-"Will you be good enough to relate

. *


68        THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

THE "ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."       69

to us the circumstances ?" asked Madame
Zavier, in her cold and quiet way. "You
will not forget, I hope, Mr. Marstyn,
that it is my daughter's welfare that is at
stake, and which inspires this curiosity
of interest, so to speak. It is little my
habit to ask questions."
" Oh, surely not," he answered, smil-
ing.  " It was, indeed, in consideration
of such right on your, part, Madame
Zavier, that I resolved to include you as
part of my audience this evening ; oth-
erwise I should have confided my con-
fession to the ear of Madame Aglite
alone."
" Perhaps this would still be best," I
heard my mistress murmur ; but, if lie
heard her lie took no heed, but still pur-
sued his story. I, who sat near her,
could hear her small foot beating upon
the mat, and her breath coming and go-
ing fast-her usual symptoms of impa-
tience or dissatisfaction.
" I shall not seek to justify my con-
duct wholly," said Mr. Marstyn; "to
do this would be disingenuous; but I
deny that in the matter which gave my
wife umbrage, there ever entered one
thought or one feeling that could have
offended the sternest moralist. I was
merely what the French call 'inconse-
quent' in my conduct of this affair ;
you comprehend, of course, the mean-
ing of that harmless word."
" Oh, perfectly," said my mistress,
sharply. " It is a very expressive one.
But, do not linger on your way, I beg,
or perhaps we had better forego the con-
fessions utterly, and take every thing
for granted. I,- for one, am entirely
willing to do this."
"But I am not so minded, Aglite,"
said her mother. " Proceed, Mr. Mars-
tyn, I beg, and constitute me your judge
on this occasion, since my daughter re-
fuses that office."
" Both judge and jury, madam, if you
please ; and I am sure you will acquit
me," said Mr. Marstyn, frankly, "of any
criminality of act or intention either
against my wife or another. Still, I deem
it right to unburden my mind before
you both, under present circumstances.'
I desire that the woman I love-the

only woman I have ever loved, so help
me God-should read me truly before'
she plights me her hand. As I have
said, I plead guilty to levity and gal-
lantry, on the surface-.-nothing deeper.
I call this little episode in my life the
'Romance of the Green Seal.'   As 1
proceed in my narrative, you will under-
stand the source of this title, and per-
haps smile at its absurdity. No matter,
it will answer for a magazine article
some day."
I could hear my mistress breathing
hard between her set teeth as he made
this remark.'
" It was in the spring of 184-," pur-
sued Mr. Marstyn, " that I was attracted
by some lines in a Boston paper, to
which sheet I was a frequent contrib-
utor, called 'My Ideal,' and signed ' Va-
lerie.' On inquiry of the editor, I found
that this very flimsy and fanciful pro-
duction proceeded from a Southern cor-
respondent, a lady who dated her letters
'Bellegarde parish,'* Louisiana, and who
was addressed in return by her 'nom
de plume' simply, to the care of the
'postmaster at Claireforte.'
"Following an impulse that I can
scarcely account for or justify, the whim
of an idler, seeking to amuse himself,
I wrote a high-flown and fantastic letter
to Valerie, and found the oracle mute,
as might have been expected."
" Valerie ?" murmured Madame Za-
vier, softly ; " are you sure that was the
name, Mr. Marstyn ?"
" Quite sure," replied Mr. Marstyn.
" I then repeated the dose, and strength-
ened it somewhat with a tincture of per-
sonality, having laid a wager with my
chum, young Fontaine that I would
procure an answer ; and sure enough, it
came this time, and I assure you that
we had good fun out of it ! It was the
most verdant thing! Yet, there was
something so fresh and piquant in the
style-so Robinson-Crusoe-ish,in short,
if you can manage to feminize the idea-
that I was fain to drink once more of
this fount of livig waters, and so wrote
again, and again, witli the same result-.
* It need not be said that the name here 55
signed to this parish is fictitious.

t F
.r'
,41
, f v

"1A good likeness, no doubt," said my
mistress, more calmly than I speak to
you now, with her eyes fixed on her
mother's face. I,,seated by her side in
the shadow, could see her features as
the others could not, and they were lock-.
ed and small-a fatal sign ever with her.
" Oh, capitalI" responded Mr. Mars-
tyn, gaily ; " a little flattered, perhaps,
as miniatures are apt to be, because of
the delicacy of the handling; but I shall
never get through at this rate, and I
think by signs and tokens Madame Za-
vier is growing impatient. Do I bore
you, madam ?",-
"Not at all, nqtsat all," said Madame
Zavier, in a husky voice. " Let me hear
every thing."
" Well, every thing shall you hear ;
for, unless I assign the reasons of my
wife's behavior, you may think matters
worse than they were ; and it seems
necessary, in order to establish the truth
of my position, that I should go into a
few wearying details-wearying to me,
as well as yourselves, for, sooth to say,

"I began about this time to entreat
for a real name, and for a meeting-,
both of which were refused, with a de-
termination that surprised me, emanating
from such a source, for the woman was
both weak and credulous it was evident,
or the correspondence would never have
existed at all. I then wrote to the post-
master at Claireforte, making inquiries
as to the real name and station of ' Va-
lerie,' and received from him a most in-
sulting letter, signed 'Richard Maurice,'
(you have more to hear of the man pre-
sently,) which, of course, I never noticed,
but which gave me none of the demand-
ed information. I contented myself,
thereafter, with the idea that I should re-
ceive voluntarily, some day, what seemed
so difficult to obtain at that period, and
you will see that I was not far wrong
in this conjecture. By the by, in the
ardor of my anxiety, I was foolish
enough to send my own picture about
this time, which I should be glad to
have back again just now,'to place in
another's hands. It was an exquisite
miniature-the work of the painter In-
man."

it is a subject I dislike to revert to.
One almost learns to hate a woman,
even if not designing, who manages to
throw one into such a mortifying predic-
ament as this in which ' Valerie' placed
me. It is almost incredible that any
sane woman, even if a recluse, on a
Southern plantation, as she assured me
she was, living with i husband she could
not love, and with no society beyond
her slaves, should play the fool so very
decidedly as did this poor Valerie, (or
Mrs. Mowbray, as I have had some rea-
son to believe she was called.) I told
you that I bided my time to find out her
little reservations; but, instead of these
alone, the matter promised much more.
A grand dinouement, conducted on the
principles known to the melodrama and
French romancers alone, awaited me.
The mysteries were still preserved for a
more momentous revelation.
" After two years of close correspond-
ence, I received the pleasing intelligence
that 'Valerie' herself proposed to pay
me a visit, and to devote the remainder
of her life to literature, and to your un-
worthy servant-that is, after her divorce
should be obtained. She seemed to take
it for granted that I was as free as that
chartered libertine, the air, and ignored,
altogether, the possibility of ties similar
to her own, in my'case."
A deep groan escaped the lips of Ma-
dame Zavier, and she held up her hands
appealingly to my mistress, (who never
stirred,) and her lips moved without a
sound, almost convulsively.
" Go on, Mr. Marstyn," said my mis-
tress, in a hard, dry voice. "You are
losing time."
" Ah, I see how it is, ladies," he re-
marked, meekly casting his eyes down
upon the floor ; " you both condemn
my course, forgetting that, in faulty man,
frivolity is not the crime it is in perfect
woman. Frankly speaking, Madame
Aglae, as far as I have gone, which of
us two do you condemn most? Now
tell me truly."
" Oh, Valerie, of course," replied my
mistress, with wonderful firmness. " I
think she was the most deplorable fool
I ever heard of in my life."


THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."'71

" I knew that you would think so,
with your lofty views of female reticence
and virtue; but, it is charitable to sup-
pose that folly alone was at the bottom
of this escapade of hers. The truth is,
she had heard that I was a man of for-
tune ; her husband was ruined ; self-
interest impelled her to her course, I
can not doubt."
" She was doubtless very mercenary,"
said my mistress. " Not a word, moth-
er," holding up her hands. " Let Mr.
.Narstyn go on to the end. I want you
to hear every thing as it occurred. If'
you interrupt him now, he will never
resume his relation, I am  confident.
Remember, I, too, have some curiosity
to hear the whole proceeding; What
more of Valerie, then, Mr. Marstyn ?"
" Did you know this Mrs. Mowbray ?"
asked Mr. Marstyn, suddenly, of my
mistress. " She was probably obscure,
and lived, I know, at a distance from
this region ; yet it strikes me you may
have heard of her, from the way you
speak."
" Never in my life, or any one bearing
that name," said my mistress, pointedly;
" nor has my mother.    She has old-
fashioned prejudices, however, to over-
come, you will find, but in me you have
a most disinterested and dispassionate
hearer."
So I perceive," said the man, stu-
pidly. -Oh, madam, had he known my
mistress as I knew her, he would have
fled from her presence for ever, the mo-
ment her voice assumed that dry and
grating sound. Had I dared, had I
dared, I would have warned him to pro-
ceed no further; but it would have been
like passing a tiger's cage when the door
was open, to do such a thing just then
and this 1 knew. So I sat quietly, but
with a quaking heart and trembling
knees. I felt like a wretch who is be-
ing pushed to the edge of a precipice.
" It seems very strange that Valerie
should have determined on such a step
without any encouragement from you,"
said my mistress, dryly. " Did you
never invite her to join you in Bos-
ton ?"
M~ yes, in a certain way-one that

she should have perfectly understood, as
'signifying nothing.' As to any idea that
such a thing could ever come to pass,
I entertained it no more than the belief
that I am now standing on the brink of
my grave. Had a bomb-shell exploded
on my roof, it could not have shocked
me more than the letter which reached
me, with its peculiar seal of gold-spot-
ted wax, (my seals were always green, I
forgot to say, which originated the title
of my little romance,) one fine morning
in October. I lost no time, when I had
regained my composure, in answering
this very practical epistle, and, as the
French say, going 'en avant' of the
approaching guest. I could imagine my
wife's consternation when Valerie-----d
withered and passe, I have no doubt,
(for beautiful women never need do such
hair-brained things,) should come driving
up, bag and baggage, to our house in
Portland place, entreating for shelter,
and making a grand scene when .the
truth should be discovered. I determ-
ined to forestall all this, as it was my
duty to do, as well as inclination, for I
have an English horror of scenes. So'
I wrote to Valerie that I would join her
at Memphis, seeing that reason was out
of the question at such a distance, with
a woman in her frame of mind."
" And she joined you there ?" groaned
Madame Zavier, covering her face with
her hands.
" Not so fast, my dear madam; and
here comes in our gallant postmaster
again, who, it seems, as luck would have
it, was either her brother or lover, I
never knew which. Instead of my Va-
lerie, came Mr. Richard Maurice, with
pistols for two, which I, having the
choice of arms, converted to swords, and
the end of it was, we fought, and were
both wounded, neither of us mortally,
however "-laughing and shrugging his
shoulders ; " and I was saved the pain,
ful necessity of sending Valerie home
with a flea in her ear, to use a vulgar
saying, most appropriate to this occasion,
however, by this meddlesome Southerner,
who, it seems, had intercepted her letters
at his post-ofmce, and placed her secure-
ly in the .custody of a jealous husband,

before hastening to receive me in this
hospitable fashion."
"I understand it all now," groaned
Maclame Zavier. "No need for another
word, Aglae-"
"Go on, Mr. Marstyn," said my mis-
tress, sternly. " What more of Vale-
rie's I told you my mother would
scarcely know how to allow for aught
that exceeds her own experiences. She
is very old-fashioned, truly; but, she
must contain herself to the close. It
will soon be here."
I heard my mistress draw   in her
breath hard through her shut teeth,
which she ground audibly. I put out
my hand and touched hers, which lay
clenched upon her knee. It was cold
as ice ; but she did not seem to feel or
regard my touch, so I withdrew my
fingers, and waited for the end.
" I have told you clearly, truly, frank-
ly, all that I know of Valerie, dear Ma-
dame Aglite. I never saw her, never
heard of her more-have seldom since
wasted a thought on her, save in con-
nection with my domestic misfortunes.
Some letters of hers lying loosely in my.
desk-the last I had received among
them, (Fontaine and I had been looking.
them over together the day I took my
departure for Memphis, and being hur-
ried myself, I relied on him to bundle
them up again-which the careless fel-
low neglected to do,) these met my wife's
eye, and filled her with jealous rage, a
jealousy that had not the excuse of
love. Fortunately I had kept no copies
of my own letters, nor were these very
clearly alluded to by Valerie, who, truth
to tell, poor creature, seemed mostly in
the clouds. My wife followed me as
far as Louisville, I understood, heard all
she cared to know, never prosecuting
her inquiries far enough to be certain.
of either my guilt or my innocence, then,
turning on her heel, though she knew
that I was lying wounded at Memphis,
went back to Boston to gather up her
children and effects and take refuge in
her father's house in Rhode Island, be-
fore I should return.
"After sundry ineffectual efforts to gain
a hearing, and induce her to return to

my house, I abandoned the whole mat-
ter as a bad job, and- reconciled myself
to the idea of a single life. . In the
mean time, after the lapse of two years,
and in accordance with the laws of our
State, which make this period of aban-
donment a cause for divorce, I put in a
bill of this description, which only wants
the signature of a judge tobe effectual.
It has been already granted in other
quarters, and approved upon every
known principle, no objection having
been offered by my wife.
" I have laid before you, my dear la-
dies, the only error of my married life,
and wait your verdict of honorable ac-
quittal," said Mr. Marstyn, in conclusion.
" The letters of Valerie, did you, ever
return them ?" asked Madame Zavier,
suddenly, raising her face from the
handkerchief in which she had buried
it, then dropping it again, unseen by
him.
"No, madam, I never did-my wife
having taken possession thereof, 'vi et
armis,' but, Ido assure you, 'Valerie'
was not a person to care what became
of them-a woman so lost to propriety
as to entertain such a correspondence at
all would scarcely be annoyed at con-
sequences."
"Were those letters wanting in wo-
manhood, in modesty, that you denounce
her thus ?" demanded my mistress, cold-
ly. " I really have some curiosity to
know "-hesitating, and breathing hard
-" what you thought of those produc-
tions."
" Thought of them ? I can scarcely
tell you. They were flimsy and' fanci-
ful rather than passionate or impure
effusions. I can not recall any very
censurable expressions or sentiment, yet,
the whole impression was unfavorable
to the writer. She must have been
either the most verdant or the most
designing  of  women.     But, why
dwell farther on  this  matter, dear
Madame Aglae ?" and he strove to take
her hand, which effort she resisted. " I
had hoped to be exonerated, in yogir
eyes, at least, from~ all very censurable
conduct, as far as my wife was concern-
ed. The rest can be but of little moment,

0     70 -     THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."


72        THE " ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL."

as far as you 'are to be considered.
I would not have you think, however,
that I had been a hard or reckless hus-
band, and for this reason alone I have
unbosomed myself."
He spoke in a grieved tone.
" You have done well," said my mis-
tress, rising, " and taught me in turn a
lesson of sincerity."
Oh, Aglite, is it all true, then ?"
groaned Madame Zavier, advancing to-
ward her daughter. " I had hoped you
were about to deny it-every word,
every word ! This, then, was why your
cousin Richard went to Memphis and
received a sword-thrust, and you have
deceived, every one of us but him ! Oh,
harder than all that has gone before-
harder than widowhood, poverty, the loss
of children, your own misfortunes, is this
disgrace to bear. Daughter, you have
broken my heart !"
"My God, madam, what have I
done ?" said Mr Marstyn, springing to
his feet, and stretching his hands, first to
one then the other. " Can it be possible,
that, after all-' Valerie,' or Mrs. Mow-
bray, is, indeed--"
" Madame Maur(pas," interrupted my
mistress, sternly, adding after a long and
to me dreadful pause, in low tones:
" Cousin Richard, you are avenged !
Husband, I go to join you in the lowest
depths. This man has slain my soul !
Mother, strengthen me now, and do not
abandon me,". and she extended her
hands, like a child groping in the dark-
ness, to Madame Zavier, who, cold and
impassive, stood apart, the image of
grief, and anger, and mortification.
" Then, Lucifer, have it your own
way, since God forsakes me," cried my
mistress, and she turned with a- fierce,
impetuous gesture toward Mr. Marstyn,
who stood like one confounded.
" Man, evil genius, Adrian 'Marstyn,
fate, whatever you may be, or call your-
self, we must part, and that eternally ;
but first," whispering horribly, " draw
near, that I may give you -this parting
message from ' Valerie.' You will find
it sweet 1"
He came to her--the fond, infatuated
mortal-as you may see a dizzy moth

headlong approach a candle. Obeying
an impulse of terror, I threw myself be-
tween them, but too late to ward or
save. The glittering steel, plunged with
a rapid hand from its sheath, had flash-
ed in the last gleam of sunset, and gone
home to the heart of Mr. Adrian before
I could interpose, and, in another mo.
ment he had fallen dead at her feet. My
shrieks filled the room. Madame Zavier
too late, had recovered from her stony
stupor. My mistress stood like a statue,
smiling down upon her victim as lie lay.
You see, madam, my vision had come
to pass!
It was a merciful interposition of
Providence that, ten minutes later, my
master Richard entered the parlor, hav-
ing just left the steamer "Montrose " at
the wood-landing. I heard it puffing
up steam again just .before our dire
tragedy, so there was no one to follow
or interfere. But for his timely presence
we might all have been niad before
morning. As it-was, there was only one
(but that you know already, perhaps,)
breath after that hour, until the day she
died, nearly two years later.
" God mercifully shielded her, Rena.
Truly, her provocation was great."
" Yes, madam, in-all her madness she
never named Mr. Adrian or M. Maurb-
pas. She was a little child again, at
'Les Boccages,' playing with master
Richard, and calling him Mr. Maurice
as she did, aunt Polly told, me, when
they were small, and making believe to
visit one another, like grown-up people.
That was his middle name, madam-
his mother's name. She was of purs
American birth, like the mother of my
mistress. All the Spanish blood they
had came from the Zaviers. But, you
see, that took the lead !"
" Aye, Rena, I see that it asserted, it-
self. Did your mistress recognize and
learn to forgive her cousin ?"
" No, madam, only in dreams of mad-
ness. She never knew him   at all In
presence, until the day she died-al-
ways calling him Dr. Zavier, as though
he were a stranger, anid, truth to tell, I
can scarcely wonder at this-s-uch a

grievous change came over him.
had not a white hair in his head the
she killed Mr. Adrian, (this seem
true name to me, madam, thou
know it was not), and he had n
black one left when he closed her
and laid her in her grave. But, on
last day, as at the awful day of j
ment, we are told, every things
back to her, clear and true. Her
act, after telling every one farewell,
just before taking extreme unction,
to burn her sandalwood box, wit]
its contents, or rather cause it t
burned on the hearth of her chan
before her own eyes. Her own mo
had never read those letters, for I
them away from every one, and w
she asked for them, at last, they
ready for her hand. For this she ble
me."
"Is your master Richard living, R
and did lie ever marry ?" I asked, d
ing away a tear.
" No, madam; he, too, is dead.
lived as long as he could for his sis
sake, but the struggle could not
His proud heart was broken with
idol, for you see he had set great s
by my mistress in every way. She
the pride of his life."
"I see, I see, Rena. Truly, lie
ited a better fate-a noble man, as
night have been the man she slew.'

He   groaned at the bitterness of my retro-
day  spections, then inquired again,
s his    " And Madame Zavier, Rena-how
gh I   did she bear this blow? and what be-
ot a  came of her ?"
eyes    " She lives where she lived  then,
that  madam-at Les Boccages-surrounded
udg.  by her sons and their children, and hap-
came   py again, I believe, as she deserves to
r last be. She was one who could rise up
and  from  any affliction, after the time of
was   trouble was over. But she did her duty
i all by my mistress right motherly, and help-
o be   ed me nurse her night and day, until she
nber, passed away."
)ther    The woman wept for a time, silently,
hid  yet almost convulsively; then, looking
when  up again, asked the question which I
were  had long before promised her to answer
3ssed  before we parted:
" And now tell me, madam, as you
ena?  agreed to do when I began-what in-
lash-  terest you took in Mr. Marstyn that you
should so desire to hear his story?
He   Might you have been his wife, sister, or
ters' any of his kin-in-law, since you have a
last. husband of your own, and have assured
his  me that no drop of your blood flowed
store in his veins ?"
was     I answered very quietly, (for my hus-
band's step was on the stairs-the hus-
mer-  band I loved entirely-though not with
also  the wild passion of that earlier dream),
I     "I was his wife, Rena."
THE END.

THE 11 ROMANCE OF THE GREEN SEAL"    13

. ,
r,
I ,y
:
r
O          ';


  
            
        
         
      
    
   
