
    ----CITATION----
        Wilburn, George T.. Sam Simple's First Trip to New Orleans .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8307
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Sam Simple's first trip to New Orleans 
            
               i'

0

S,

iY;

1/a

THEI

}: LAN(

i

FIRST TRIP
TO
A UTHHOR OF "BOB SNOBS," '"MASONf F.MI. ",&amp;C
AMERICtTS, (GEORGIA :
Qoh , GRAHAM &amp; REILLY, BOOK AND JOB PIWITEJ&amp;
18.70,.

0

:j


i
Y
l
t
'       '
r
i
a

Entered, according to Ag of Congrees, in the year 1870, by
GI. T. WILBURN,
In the office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

V[Y FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS:

w you
e the;
ght it
ibout
comes
to sob
thun
e old
''e
river,
iing]
y roui
other,
soon i
nin, al
Ijust
-er of
some
sure
ere."
Ad to:
her v

BY   Sa.I SIIPLE. .
CHAPTER I.
see I was raised away up in thejmountains of Alabama,
live on deer meat and turkeys, and somehow  or other
was one of the greatest places in the world. When I
t".1 years old, there was a, tremendous st rring among the
.e. I couldn't for my life think what waste to pay. But
home ine night and says:: "Sam, Thn gwine; to send
ool to that man you seed here to-day."  Thipks I to my-
[or and Ton Walker! and what does he mean? IAwonder
coon has hired me out to that ugly varmint! ,"But"; says
are going to build house to-morrow."  Old Nick and
and what are they goin to do with a 11ouse! The, next
was up bright and early to seewhat :all this to-do, meant.
d the Wolf's Bend, down in the hollow,the peopleall got
nd such another cutting, of sappl'ns you neverdid see.
hrowed up a log hut, and covered 't over. Next Monday
ter we finished the house, I gete mummy's old blueepocket
crammed down into it a big piece of deer meat anda
bread, and starts down the branch to the new house. I
eighty  tremendous ideas, goin along. Well, I go   there,
enough there was;the school man.. Says he, "Bys, come
Oh, you chills and agues, how itgives ne the4 d1- oversI
iave dropped right there. We all marched up, not knowing
should live a minute. He first findssout all our names

N
rou
as
ood
ad
ou
elf,
i
ad,
ar
aor
\a
Ve
ior
nd
un
ad
nd
p1l
lik
the


VMY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,

1
,{
a;

and scratches.them down onl a piece of paper, aid he then gives
books toall of us. He- give me a kind of picture book, and says he.
"Sam, you learn these letters."  Off I went, and down I sat, and I
tell you it was mighty interestin for a little while. After awhile
he says, "The class in geography, come recite." Up they went, and
commenced tellin about the big towns in this country. After awhile
they come.to New Orleans. Now the school ma    had been down
to New:Orleans, and he gin the class the great things he seed down
there. Now this kind of excited me, and I just nade up my mind
to go to see New Orleans. I goes home and says to dad, I believes
I'll go to New Orleans. C"Go whar ?" says dad. Why, says I, to
New Orleans. "If you dont bundle up and get of to school to-mor-
row morning, I'll show you how to come here talking your out-
landish' nonsense."  So I went on to school; but now and the n the
school man had'something   say about the queen of cities, and the
"Crescent City."  I thoughtI would begin to pi k up dimes and
save them for a trip. I went on to school a little more than three
years, and-then I left him. I then hires myself to a man to get
money to go to New. Orleans I. served him for several years, and
laid up my- little money. I let him keep it for me, and when I
thought I had enough to make a start I calls on him  for it. He
pays me $200 down, in the pure stuff. - I soon fixes up, and off I
puts for New Orleans. I takes along dad's old sadklle bags, stuffed
like a sassinger, withclean sl irts, trowsers, &amp;c. I goesdown to Mr.
Work's, where the folks take supper when they take the stage on
the plank-roads I never had mueh appetite, and when I went in to
supper I takes a bite or two, 'and up I jumps. As I wa.s about to
go out the door the boss ketches me by the sleeve, trnd says, "Gentle-
men always pay their bills bWfore leaving the dini lg room.'.' Now.
being{as how I was on a trip tothe Crescent City, was right in for
anything that looked like a nan of information, so I just hawls out
my money purse-one that n ammy made me out of checked home-
spun--and hands the old customer a half dollar,'and says I, boss, just
give me thechange. "This is the amount, exactly," says he, and
puts it in his pocket. -Splprgeration and wild pats ! says I; and
I didn't eat as much as a baby, and you charge a half dollar'?

"C
thi
get
ke
wh
toi
tor
pai
tle
ar
live
ni
on
bar
;re
aid
md
no
tior
ny l
:o g
ier
iav
urn
ton
na
rae
To,
iin
linm
vor
ike
hin
ole

3rtaiu y," says he; we charge as much for three mouthfuls as for
ec hu dred."  Good! says I; and back I welt, and at it I went tg
my h If dollar's worth. I eat until I was as tight'as a, whiskey
.I ets up with a kind of independence like a nianvwho knowsL
it he is about; and when I gets to the door the greedy puppy  says
ce,  "Mister, your fare if you please."''Earthquakes and alliga-
;, says I, didn't I gin you half a dollar? -"yes," says he,  "you
I me or the first supper and went back and took another. Gen-
nen w o eat two suppers pay' for two."  I seed it was nouse to be
uin w th him, for he seemed to be up to his business; so Ijust forks
r the  alf. Now, says 'I, Sam, if'you don't'"'keep your eyes ' kin-
you'l not see the "Queen of Cities" yet"; so I just 'made up=ny
d to eep imy eyes open. After a'little while I heardthe etage
ing. Flutter-mills and weather-cocks, says I, I believe. my giz-
will jump right out of-my mouth. But up she "'onie, with a
t lig whiskered fellow drivin four of the prettiest grays you ever-
your eyes on; they were charmin creatures, andI walked  found
was 1 oking first on this side and  then on that, and first:thiig I
wed the driver hollowed out, "All aboard, gentlemen; for Mont-
ery."  Says I, I'm gwine there myself. "Well,.Why inthe na
don' you get in ?"  I runs around quicker than' a 'minute, with
ld sa dle-bags a swinging to myjarm. Just as I got"to the'dbor
et in, ne 'little sickly-face fellow says, like a woman; "All 'full in.
r."   Toll, get out, says I, for I am gwine; certain. "You will
to ri elwith me," says the driver. .Any where, says I, so up I
ps, and pits as strait as if Ilhad a shingle in iiy back. Away) the
es we t; down a long slant. I waited aminute dr twb to see the
take therm up, but bein as how he didn't, quick as you can say
Rob nson, I grabbed the reins and hollowed 'as'iud }ms I#'ould,
wo.  "Wihat ar you about," says the driver . Aint thOfitun-
away ? says 1\ "No, you fool," says he, "they aint -h f trav-
Don't you put your hands on these lines." And away ie went
se than ever. I could see the blue streaks and'theings around,
when you've been turned' 'around and got ' drdik, and' the first
g I knowed a co-whallup I come right flat of my baCk inI a mud
The horses run about fifty yards before the-driver couldfake

BY S NI INIPLE.

4

%5


MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLIFANS,
umup. I jumped up qneker than you could pop your finger and
took right.afterthe stage--I knowed they were after leavin me, but
I'd see -um.about it. "Npu'd better get on t e inside," says the
driver. I guess I hd, says I, that place up the e is rather high for
e, it kinderakeamy head syin. My littlegan gets out and I
getsyin. The gals were al mighty tickler, frai4 my muddy britches
would tuckb their fine coats; so I gets as small as possible. The old
seage wegta swingin and a juniii worse than mamy's cradle, and
the frst thing I knowed it kind a struck something and I pitched slap
dab into a.gals/s'lap, wi l my arm  right around her neck, ketchin
at somethin to kcp me from fallen. She ho owed worse than a
wildeat, and:two great whappinsllows grabbed me and set me
back ina my seat so hard.I like to knocked the ottom out. "Keep
your, seat,"said 'one and his face looked  1 ke a snappin turtle.
Bhe41azes and Gen. Jackson, says I, and how do you think a man
can keep in his seat when the old'thing is bolbin up and down in
this kindof way. "Holdon," says he, and his eyes looking like
they would.keteh fire; .so I ketches hold of the sides of the stage
and I held tighter than any possum on a sin mon lim. After so
long ar time we beginto enter the great city of Montgormery. Oh !
the, houses ! the houses ! I looked first on one hide then on tother.
Thinks I, this must beNew Oileans. Says I, his is New Orleans,
aint it?  "No," says a great black whiskered fellow, "this is a
chicken-coop to New  Orleans."  Butter nuts, says I, if this aint
a tarnasion ofa gchickencoop. About this tide the driver bawls
out=-"What .Hotelgentlemen ?"  Some say, "Exchange;" some
"adison ; soms "Montgomery Hall."    Roanoke and Tar river,
th*  I, what d44'they mean by this kind of stuff ?  But an idea
pops into my head-they only tellin the shows they want to go to.
o I leaned back a little, and kinder puts on a knowin look, and
ing gut wie. a full understanding of what   was sayin-says I,
driver; just carry me to, all on um.i
"gies, says he, "time you pay your bill at one of them you'll
not wantto g  to the others."  I knowedwhat he meant right
away,,for I had a lastin recollection of payin bijIs. About this time
the driver cries out-" Exchange ,gentleman."' The door opened,

S;
i
al
WJ
81
ell
be
an
ye
ha
el
An
-90

d .'
bi~
rn
ys
rfi~
ir
~ga~
e-

3Y $AM SIMPLE.                      7
ut I juamed. White-oak mountains, what a house? Why it's
as all o dad's yard and house-lot put together. I just opened
outh a  just looked at the tarnal thing. A great black ugly
nt com  oltin up agin me and says he, "Your baggage."-
[, take  y wallet, is that what you want ?  Ijust pulled back
t nd do n I drapped him. Now, says I, leave here, I'll
yo how to take folk's clothes when they are travelin a long
from home. About, this -time somebody watched me #by the
and says he, "What are you about, what did yon hit that
r ?"  Volcanoes and Cotopaxi, says I, and do you suppose I
inc to let a black niggerntake my- clothes right before my, face?
le, "The boy "only wanted to show you a room, he don't want
Clothes. He only wanted to"wait ondyou, and to carry your
;e for yoiy."  Ager.-uend gimblet holes, thinks I, any kind of a
lace to get out of this scrape; and so I follows the man around
round and around again, and says he, "Here's your room, No.


_  ;",,.
_
r
4          1
1
t"
i
r
s
i
i
Y        i
' y'r
a'
i'
r
r
i
rv
}      1
r
t
;I
a
1      j
1

S             MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
CHAPTER II.
I walks into my room, No. 90, and just At nds my old saadi-
1as up 4n one corner. The room was about!as big as dad's fobr-
mernered hog-pen, with one bed, two chairs an asomethin or no4 ar
up in the corner with a bowl and a pitcher onmit. I, takes a seat by
the window to see what was going on the outside. - I kinder fel
liesome. Here and there, and everywhere, went~ somebody-amil
everybodyy in such a tarnation hurry. Here comesone on a bobiai
gray as hard as he can come it. There goes a man walking like he
thought the sheriff would get him next minute., Well, thinks, :,l
these people just cone to town and haint got lng to stay, and they
have to be in a hurry to see everything in one day. I was setting
there mnusin on these things and wishing for dinner, when, before 1
knowed it, such a noise right - t my door you never heard. Sho t-
els, tongs, pine-poker, walkin-stick, shot-gun-kint there nothin iti
the room for a man to fite with ? Blue bIazes thought I, Injuns in
the camp, and nothin for aman to git hold on. I just grabbed upr
my old hat and run out the doer, and hollered as loud as I could,
Hurrah for General Jackson ! for I knowed the Injuns couln't stana
OMd Hickory. "What's the matter ?" says a dandy sort of a fellow.
Why, says I, didn't you hear the Injuns be tin up thar forces -*
'Nonsense," says little tight-britches, "that wis the gong for din-
ner."  Thinks I to myself, kong for dinner, what in the duce is
that? But I was in for dinner, let it come kong fashion or any
other kind of fashion, and so Ijust paddled right after my customer,
ftr Iknowed I'd never find, the way to the table in the round world.
He went first this way and then went that and twisted and turned,
and after a while we popped into a great big room full of folks, andl
glory-to-gravy, how they was eatin. There were three or four great
Mg tables, as long as from dad's house to horse-lot, and every one ori

the
bee
cou
abo
in
loo
1110
carr
abo
tabl
per
may
new
fello
his
in a
eoa
and
medi
thou
break
ague,
and t
the r
barre
looke
come
Abo
to do
one I
pluri
a goo
a felk
thing
and a
again

a c:
e IC
dn'
tr
ys
d
t
th
tf
nd
Cp
fr
is
ee
ail
oi
tel
ht
en
of
s, a
lib
out
the
aol
ag
e's
C
goc
ay
rit1

BY SAM SIMPLE.
ock full. Thinks I; this is a big day here.thfota bar-
ortain,  nd as beiu how I was mighty fond/of barbecue, I
help smacking nif mouth when,,J:tuck my seat-auntd;ought
asted. mutton and shoat. y the time I was cleverly settled
eat, somebody put a little piece of paper right in iy plate. I
'ound te see who it was, but I. couldn't tell,. for there was
an a dozen going up and down the table as fast as legs could
em. Just brushed the thing put of my plate and looked.
r something to eat. I couldn't see one bite .of neat on the
About this time the man next to my right picked' up my pa-
went to readin like'it was mighty interestin. Thinks I, that
ome secret that some friend, wanted to tell ie, or it; may be
m home, or it may be anything r nothing about me, and this
no business knowin it, and so I just reached my handafore
and took the paper. ,. tell you what, he flew off the handle
ute. H jumped right up, and,. runnin his hand ,into his
behind be dragged outdonee of your everlastin shootin pistols
ted it right in my face-says he, demandd satisfaction n-
I looked right down about a handful of barrels and
I smelt the powder getting hot. I could; kinder feel my
me and go, a sort of shakin all over like a man with a mighty
y jaws  ere fastened worse, theu if I'd had the:lock-jaws,
I understood for thg first time about the tongue cleavin to
f my nouth. My'eyea were sot like, a dyin man's, on the,
d they  ot bigger  and bigger  uOne of the barrels. 'ow
e one e  of these everlastin stgam-bilers. The cold sweat
all over 4re, and I thought the bour of disolution had, come..
s'time I e takes down the pistol, and says he, "You everdare
a thin agin and I will blow your.,brains out.": I eanght
reath, or I tell you I needed it. worse than a"man with _he
When he scare sorter passed offof me like water runn  o ff
back, I elt myself hollow, bout the stomach. Just in, time
imes to my back and says, "Whatwill you have?" ,Any-
d to ca,, says I, ands no sooner said=than he took my plate
h my pla e full to the brim with the best sort of eatips.-

y


10            MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,.
Now I just 'tell you I eat right along and didn't pester nobody certain.
I got through, the balance peacably,' and ptid my half dollar, and
out I went. When I got out of'the eatin room into that long alley,
or'whatever they"call it, 'right before the eatin door, I forgot which
way my rooi was.- Some went to the right and some to the left.
I looked around for my manwl o come with me, but I couldn't see
him. And there I stood just ike a fool, not knowin which way to
o. 'And IT'didn't want to be'skin every body, just like a greenhorn
da hisifrst out from home. SoI thought I would decide myself, and
just keep walking till I come to No. 90. I walked around where a man
Was staidin in a little pen of a place, with a goose quill stuck behind
his 'ears. 'That's a schoolnastet aays I to myself. I'din't more than
get' the idea'through "my mind efore he says, "Mister, you will please
seiteryour  ime," And pushed me a great big book, and handed me the
pen: What do you want me to do ? says I. "Write you name, where
joilsare from and where you a e going. I Was monstrous willin to let
people know I was gwine to Ne  Orleans, soI takes hold of the man's
quill and scratches down on tle book in as strait a line as possible :
'San &amp; pifrom the Mountains guhine t9 New   Orleans. There
i§ no teilin how big and good'aI felt when I got through the line
and handed the man his pen. I just felt ike New Orleans tacked
on) to the end of my name madei me a man ,f no small consequence.
And so it was, for the man ve y politely asced me if I would take a
oigar. Bein as he was so kind and accommodatin I told him I would
take two.   He handed me a light, and it would have done yon
good to see me take'the regular 'gentleman step, with my head flung
back and xhy cigar stickiu so strait up that! the ashes would nearly
fall in my nose. There is no mistake about it, I felt a heap better
with a cigar in my mouth than I did wit the everlasting pistol in
myface. It gives me the a l-overs to think about it. Well now,
thinks I, it is tiie to'begin to think about ittin offto Mobile. ' Just
as I thought 'of this I happened to see stickin upon a post--Magnolia
will leave this evening at 4' o'clock."  I knowed it couldn't be long'
'before the boat wotild'start, and so I cut out to find my room to get
my saddle-'bags. I didn't know which way to start; I knowed I
come down the steps, and so I went right up the first steps I found

and
count
if I e
now I
'Bout
how ,
and r
could,
other
I'll be
coming
couldn
would
and hd
if I ha
them t
I didn't
old lad
so ?"
got my
to the r
right u
struck
says I;
to goi
who's t
or I'll
never ~s
anybody
munin
door.
thing r
another
Nothin
he, "Y
says I, .i

om
kill
mi
wa
thiE
di
go.
ol
eft
on
t se
oj
loll
be
rri
ho
'S I
No'
sad
ght
ff i
I a
at
ho
id
m
dnc
an
ttl
roo
all,
Pd

BY SAM SIMPLE.                     I1
nenecd tbo count. The first door was 60, so I went on ,to
the rgoril give out,'and the I poked on other side to see
find  o. 90.  But the Nos. were all backward. And
I bothered to 'know where the next figures commenced.
time I ead the boat whistle jeminy and black-snakes
d git about o find 90. Irun firt this way and then that.
ng all the Nos.'They didn't -read regular no way you
It w0ld bie first'40, 4d then on'tother side 70; or some
figure fhat didn't suit. '.What shall I do, thinks I, either
or I mast leave my saddle-bag. I could feel the sweat
my f head and'I Was gitten mighty agitated.    1
3 a livi4foul no where to'ask for No. 90. So I thought I
ist like I ' do when "I git lost ossum hunting, sit' doWit
till somebody1 comes.' 'So down I dropped quicker than
en shot and I List opened my month and let out one of
ble holly s which I am capable ofmakin-iurrahfor 90.'
low many tines before a deer flenopen, and out popped an
cad, a d, saidshe, -" What the nation makes you hollow
hin tal , says I, only I want to find room No. 90,.what's
dle-bags in it. "Go round th re," says she, "then turn
and the i turn to the left, and you'll find it."  I jumped
d given he old lady one of my politest kind of bows I
a trot. It wasn't long fore I found No. 90. Hey, hey!
n glad t4 seefou' old friend. I took hold on the knob
rutt both ration 'the door was locked. 'hello! says .I,
in my room?' Open this doot quicker than a minute,
v you which side of your bread's buttered. Nobody
a word. I stood right Still to see if I could hear
wve.  There Wasn't the first sound. You needn't be
er the bed, says 'I, come 'out from there and open this
g; bang, I rapped the door, and I tell you what, the old
d like i pile otboards: A man come rnnnin out from
n, and says' he, "Mister what in the world is to pay ?"
says I, only I wants to get in my room, No. 90. Says
find your key in the bar-room."  Who carried it there?
here is the bar-room?  " Down at the entrance," says


12            MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
he, and into his room he went. Now what shall I do?  If I go
down there, I'll never git back here again. I feels in my pocket for
a string, and finds a spool muammy put in there just before I left
home. I tics one end to the knob, and started backward, unwindin
as I went, and now and then looking behind me to see which way I
was goin.  IL went around the corilers just like I come up, and IL
hadn't gone round more than two before I, felt something strike my
line. Now I, always was the best hand a fisher you ever seed, and
I've thought I could come as near tellin what kind of a fish was. at,
the end of the hook as the next .man living or dead. So quicker.
than thought I made up my mind that some sap-headed, high-mimdedl
sort of a fellow, not.lookin where he wus gwine to, had rna up,
against my line. So I just puts down my spool and runs right back
on the line,.so as to get there before he could git off; for I was de-
termined to open his eyes and make him mind where he was ,wal-
kin. I was goin in a thunderation of a trot, when I went around
the first corner-and come slap dab against one of the biggest women,,
e-whilikin.  She fell one way and I fell tother.  No quicker'
than down I was up agin, She was just kind of getting up her,
things to get up. After a while, she sorter stood on her feet, with
her hand on her stomach. Says I, reckon, I must sorter. butt yeui
in the stomach, for when I runs I leans a little forward, and squats
my head a little. But never mind, says I, it will get well bimeby.
She never 'peared to _see me, but.walked right by me like I was no
body, a swingin this way and a swingin that. I just turns myself
around, and putting my hands a kind of kinmbo on my hips and
took one good look at the creature. Her coat reached from  this
side of the wall clean over to the other side, and it went sweeping
in string, spool and everything else before it. She put me in, md
of one of those great, bush treelaps turned upside dow , with the.
butt-cut stickin up above and a coat fitted over it. I reckon she.,
heard me coming, for before she turned the next corner, she left it.
I picks it up and looks at it, all tangled up and dirty,  d I was.
lookin out for the end to go back and tie it to the brokerend of the
string, when I heard the boat whistle agin. I dropped the spool
like a hot potatoes, for I knowed it was no time for tyin  trying, and

runs ba
like a w
corner v
round tl
were wi
arm, and
corner, t
the eatin
I just tr(
was 'just
a"Look Ii
Says he,
fare," sa.
says he, "
arrested."
the boat's
just a dol
paying wi
here on ti
you don't
That was
I run with
the boat a
bile." Tb
through th
around, I j
so the capt
went to to
Jackets. I
no shirt in
*ed hold oE
The folks a
was a bsni
out "stop tl
nothing.

kt(
irl
her
er
're
aw
en
ro
tec
goi
re,
it]
an
e 'b
van
not
all
wi
re
or
in
kin
pul
ieri(
on
1 cc
ter
eb

BY SAM SIMPLE .1
SNo.  9t  with all my might I just run against the door
ind, ark I tell you the pieces, flew. I run up into the
e I put my saddle-bags, and they want there. I run all
om in a.ainute; I looked under the bed, and there the
somebo y had put them. I 'swung them across my
ty I wen to find the bar-room. I went around this
around that, till first thing I knowed I was right in
in, but nobody want eatin. I knowed the way now, so
across the room and I was soon in the bar-room. I
ng dowifn the steps when a man squalled out to me.
Mister,a you goin off on the boat ?"  "Yes, sir," said I.
ou'll please' pay your fare."  "No time to talk-about
"and the boat whistlin."  " Don't you leave here,"
1out paying what you owe; if you do, I will ha
Well," aays I, 'how much do I owe you ? bevquick,
histlin. ' Says he, "You took dinner and a room;
Says I, "I paid for my dinner at the door."  "Such
ver make a settlement in this house. Yournm  is
ooks, and you are not Credited. And," sra  "
to be left by the boat, you had better be in a hurry.""
gh for ie; I handed him a dollar and left in a trot.
ny might to the river; and just as I got in sight I saw
ae off. " Hallo!". says I, "hallo! Pm wine to Mo-
was lot of folks down on the bank;, I run right
3wd, an right down the river; I swung my old hat
ed and hollowed. I wanted something white to shake,
ight s -e me. I put down my old saddle-bags and
for a hirt. All my clothes turned to coats and
ed out, and pulled, and, thinks I, didn't mammy put
? After a while I found a pair of drawers; I grab-
leg of :them and swung them round and round.
me out of the" boat, and stood around where there
and shook their handkerchiefs ,at me.  I bawled
at," bijt they went right on like nobody had said

a


14

MY FiRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,

CHAPTER III.
Well, L saw it was no use to run after i steam-boat, and down.
stream at that, so I turns round to go back, after I had packed my-
clothes back in my saddle-bags. And here I was, left by the steam-
boat on account of that No. 90. One minute I would be mad
enough to fight the whole steamboat, and the next minute I would
cry. So I went walkin along up the river, studyin what to do. I
oes back to where the boat started, and tells a man there, who was
pilin up some boxes, that I had been, left by the steam boat.-
"Never mind," says h. ":You done mighty well not to spend your
money," and he went n with his business ike he hadn't said nothn.
But this kind of talked got all over me like lectricity, for  was in
no humor to be joked,.and if it hadn't been that I was Tfra d he had'
some of them everlastin pistols, I'd let .him know what toes are
made to shoes for. * Says I, I'm gwine to!New  Orleans,  am; and
you suppose I aint got money,'nough to jay my way?  He kmd
straitened himself up, and says he, "You know who you talkm to?"
And says I, do you knowwho you making fun of ?: He piked up a.
little crooked hook what they rolls cotton bagswith, and, sayshe, "I'll
put you afloat if you fool with me. I kn wed he had no istol, and,
I want afraid of nobody who didn't have shootin fixins. I sorter
rolled up my sleeves, and says I, old horse, if you are hurtin up for
a difficulty, I'm the boy after your own heart. Says I,  don't in
tend to be imposed upon by you dirty dogs any longer. By this
time we'd got tolerable close together, anseeing he had  ade up his
mind to fight, I thought I would take the advantage and  ock him
blind the first lick, so I just takes him side of the head ith one of
your joe-cleavers. It sorter staggered him, but 'fore I could hit;
3'4

him ag in h
and ble s na
into the riv
I got oitt t
Says I,' his
suppose yo
[, when 1' w
Ito use f rn
Carry pistols
another boat
Battle' will I
In about h
rat, and I kn
so I run roul
river to put
miy britches
whistlin and
o. : I wiah I
luck happens a
:  liza Battle
am and cant
mustbe done
I kicked and
all sorts of sir
'd pull first
both hands wi
The more I pi
see britches st
wrong side out
could not get t
could hear the
me, every thing
some tall pulln
and I fell flat o
clean dry clothe
which mammy

a

BY SAM SIMPLE.                       1
e hitclid that tarnal hook into the seat of my britches,
y old b ttos, if he didn't turn  e heels over head right
I one some tall scrambling, for, the bank and  en
ere le was pilin up things like he hadn't done nhn
er, when is another boat, gwine to leave?  Says the
are cool enough now to behave yourself "  Ye? sir, says
Hsma ough to bite his "ears off~ but T. saw, there was.
ountai folks to be fooling with these town f lksWh
and ho ks, so I made out like I Want mad. Sa
coming up to-night?    "Yes," sdys hes, "the 'I;a
e along torectly 'from Wetumpka.', How long? said I
lf-an-hjur," says he. I was just as wet as a drowned
wed they wouldnItlet me go on the boat in that fix and
d that ig warehouse that stands up there close by the
n dry clothes. I hadn't more than got off one le
before I heard theboat comin.' ,There's the boat a
a comm in a hurry. I'll b lft again with wet clothes,
never htad seen this evorlasti, place where -alltio bad
once. No. 90; then    wet 'clothes, and. th  Miss
ha coin like all the world Was after hegand here
it my bitches nor nothingn else off, and every, thing
in a m ute or P11 be left, as certain as :there's. snakes.
mulled; 'd sit down and then I'd stand up, I got into.
pes, fashions and forms, to git my oldwet britches of
ith one hand and then witi the tether, and, then with
li all my might, but the britches wouldn't'come,
lled ie more they wouildut come .off. I neenr did
ek so ia{ my life. I sorter got:ny old trousers trned
over my ankles, and with all the pullin I could do I
wet hiags off. .I was in a powerful hurry; foxI
boat a 9omin, and I was so skeered about its leaving.
like it was left-handedI tell you I, dore
of old clothes. :After awhile off come the britches
mny hawk. And then whenI got ready to put gon
s, I Cotldn't find no britches but the .blue jenes ones
old me to save till I got to New Orleans. I do be%

1


16      -     MY FiltSTC TRIP 1O NEW ORlLEANS,
lieve when anybody is in a hurry his eyesight is double, for I couldn't.
hardly telia pair of britches for a jacket.' I kept pullin and hawli
over' the clothes until I found my coperas pants, , and no quicker
than yoii oquld skin a.eel I was into them. I put on my shirt and
slioes and took my coat and jacket in my hand, and the way I went
for the steamboat, putting them -on as I: run. I was in such a
hurry I forgot my saddle-bags, and after I got down to the boat I
thought'of them. Mercy on me, says I, and I'll bet that them old
saddle-bags will make the boat leave me agin. But I know d there
was no time for foolin, and so I run back after my saddle-bags with
all my might, hollowin every step, "I'm  gwine to Mobile on the
boat."  I done some tall stepping up the hill to, where I left my
saddle-bags. I just rammed my.clothes, wet ones and all, ri ht into
my saddle-bags, swung them on my arm, and went down he hill
so fast my heels like to have flew over my head. I run right into
the boat like a house was afire. I was out of breath, but I felt
mighty glad that I was on the boat. I just knowed it would take
a man with a head.on to git me off agin. I just fell down i a chair
and commenced to look about, and hang my skin if the ld boat
.didn't look the nicest of anything I had ever seen. Dad 's house
aint nothing compared to a boat. I never did see such fine fixins
in my life,I but I never did see such little bitter, rooms smce I've
ibeei born. I got up and went right iito one of these litt e rooms.
and what do { you think ? they just had two shelves, so -ter like
mammiy's shelves in the dairy, with short, narrow beds n them.
Thinks I tio myself, 'folks don't sleep on shelves here, io they
Every thing looked powerful fine but these little short beds. They
kinder pestered me, but 'I thought I would wait till sleepin time
come round, When I would see how they would do. it was now in
the night, and I felt like I could eat something if 1 had a fain
chance. 1 kept waitin for the old boat to start, but itl koked like
it never would git off. They kept bringing down cotton, boxes and
everything, till I began to get scared that the boat might sink.
didn't want to git into the river any more, for I knowed I didn't
have many dry clothes. I stood on the outside, lookin at the folks,
.and the cotton boxes. till I got the all overs. So I just hlilows out

I

BY SAM SIMPLE.
as loud as I could, 'Rough cotton on here, ain't gain' to take  m
A man steps~up to me, and; says.he, "Who told youtQ be.v a
4ers."  Says I, "1'm fraid the boat'o gito pink.
says he, "we haven't got half a load. IWas afraid to talk to
murch, for I didn't like these hooks and shooting irons wh  e
lied along with them, so I nevkersaid no more to the a  but
gittin out of patience waiti. I had -un myself nearly to at
git on the bolt in time, and now it looked like it wene
Ar bout this time the boat .gave a whistle that like to mdde e
into the river. I thought the eve:lastin thing wa bloi
peould almost imagine myself a g in . p in the air, The chills
over me as big as punkin seed, butI soon got over the ykeer h
commenced to pull-in the plant and untie the  eat
holds the boat to the land, The old boat conun eed to.sivi
around, and the big wheels made a powerful splurgratron  e
water, They just nade the white foam rise behind, The
dIid feel proud where I knowed 'I was ri'in o. the boat. I just wid.
ed dad and mam 'ould see me a floatin down the river,     t
stood up there and looked at the folks as we went a elippir of it.to
wards Mobile. I never did feel so mie like somebody before
all my born days. Sam Simple,'from near Wolf'  ,end wa u
athe mountains, othe steamboat Mips "Eliza  dttle, "on'his wr
to Mobile. Lasses and plum puddi ,     I didn't fel a
If I had just got ou of a camp-meetin , and I straitene myslf
non my important in as st ff and coequential manner s!!
a post-oak board ru  down the marrow f my b ck-2one
jyin my situation fiely, fogettin eve y thing a oucat u t
them begin to set the tables Whene er ti'e plates beu to r
my stomach begun 1,o wake up to its duty, and I do -elieve I oeon
have eaten anything from a possemi o a chicken pi.I wny
every plate, and tho gh the niggers seemed in the bigg st kindo:
burry, they looked like they got along  mighty slow, I ws hun r
for true, and when I gits in that fix Iwants to cat omethin.
o*asn't much longer before that everlntin fussy kong or gong run
-92

l'
jt


1$             MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
.or supper. Bo rd piles, shinglestacks and half dozen nne
frowed in, all fallin down at once, ain't nothin to one of
things rattlin fo, supper. It would come as nigh wakin the d
aything else that Yankees can make. They talk about a tr
wakin the dead; if you'd just git one of these noisy creatures,
dbe dead didn't wake up, it would be no use to be blowin your
et there. I w nt on to supper, but I couldn't hear nothin fo
a hour after. 1 ut I know'd if I couldn't hear, I could find th
4b my mouth, and I'm not jokin when I declare I made the u
sy-I always did love these clean, white, warm    flower bi
.T never took time to count how many I did eat. I'd take about
Mieg at a bistit, and then take a big swaller of coffee. I felt
Ito the man who loved a dram, I wanted my neck to be as lo
a rne's, bce use it felt so good a goin down.  All the folks 1
' git up before I got half enough, but I know'd how to travel
experience had taught me a mighty good lesson ; for I didn't
hat it didn't cost no more to eat three hundred mouthfuls ti
di to eat two, so I know'd I wasn't inereasin the expens
n't care if the folks did git up, they hadn't paid for two su
adl smelt.the patehin like I had. When they got along as fa,
lad been, they'd know how to eat a half a dollar's worth. I
gin in tili a nigger comes up behind me, and says he,  M
yallkill yourself.' "Not I," says I, "I feel like I was gittin
says he, "we'll have breakfast-in the mornin."  "I'm glad t4
iU  says 1, and doyou have good biskits for breakfast?"  "Oh,
she} "the cook let the biskits git smoked to-night--we'll
them all right to-morrow niornin." "These are good enough,'
and I kept hiding the good things. But after I saWthen
boiody eatin but me, I thought I wouldn't be impolite, and
t just for manner's sake. Whea I got up, I just thought t
1f  I'll be bound I'l never be too late for the steam-boat an
due. If I'd k 'owed what fine eatm they had on the boats
lashed No. O0 nto a koked-hat before I'd been left.  After su
was over, I begun to feel sleepy, so I goes o the man what
the books, and says 1, "where-an I gwine to sleep ." ' In N
says he. "In where ?" says I; for I thought it was No. 90

hing
these.
ad a
aid if
arum-
Shalf
c way
iski
skits
t two
orter
ci a
egna
mow ;
an   -
ppore
as I
kep
~ster-
fat.'"
lher-
yes,".
have-
so I
o. m

ind I'd fight,: ship load of alligators tl
90. "In No 9," says he. I didn't lik
ain't you got no other number besides
occupied."  Says I, "I'se got no use
luck, Says he, "it's 9 or none."  So 1,
totin my saddle bags. When we got
n the lower shelf. says I, "Mister,
"Walk in sir, two of us can stay in
. Ic seemed so polite, I thought I'd let
to the top shelf. Ingun rubber, says
bouncin. It was just about long ens
the very thing for sleepin. It beats
out of all hollow. Those folks what ti
to fix up things. I was lyin there th
folks, and afore I knowed it I was fas
to dreamin about the big cities and a
joyin myself finely in, my sleep, whe
right in my room--'Thief ! thief!"-a
skeered me like the nation, and I jum1
was, and fell clean down from the top
the bottom shelf was standin there hollow
l, what m8 '- xi tou isthe matter?
than xer,. "Thie i thid   In poppe
-What's to pay ?  My man made out
and says he, "Somebody's stole my monm
home without a cent," and he began to
h re?   "Nobody," says he, "but you.
it I didn't feel like making daylight thr
:I'd die the death of a dog first. Don
says I. "Stop," says the Captain, "I
Scys the Captain, "how much money di
dollars," says my man."  Says I,, I' e g
a , but I never got it from you. I wo
}e ns on. Says the Captain to my ma
bi Is on, and how many bills did you h the
th Banks, but they were all ten dolar I

V

efore I'd go into another No.
e No. 9 nuther, and, says I,
No 9 ?" "No," says he, "all
ar these 9's, they are all bad
puts out for No. 9, a nigger
to ,No. 9, a man was in there
this is my room. Says he:
erO-you can sleep above."
him alone, and crawls up on
I, if it don't feel just like
)ugh and wide enough. It's
mammy's old shuck mattress
avels on the water know how
inkin about home and honw
asleep. I went right strait
ll such things, and I was en-
n I heard somebody hollowir,
I don't know what all. It
ed up, not thinkin where I
helf. My man what was on
win with all his might. Says
But he kept hollowin more
I the Captain, and says he,
like he was powerfui bad off
y, and I am here away from
cry. Says I, whose been hi
Old Nick and Tar river,
ugh him.   Me steal, says I,
't you accuse me of stealing.
nast look into this matter."
d you lose ?"  "A hundred
t more than a hundred dol-
ked for it to go to New Or-
n, "What Banks were your
" 8pys he, "I don't know
ille."  Now I had mest all

BY" 8A'.IM  ldLF


s

MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW 0 LEANS,
ly money in ten dollar bills, but I just kn wed I didn' git them
rom him. Says the captain, "You two will lease to com out here
in the entrance, and I will have to search yo1, and if poss ble settle
this matter.'  Says he, "I've had such cases before, and I think I
know something about such matters. It is ve y common f r men to
lose their n ney going down this river, but when I find the man who
.teals, I  n certain to teach him  a lesson he don't so.n forget.
Walk out gentlemen and take a seat."
I                    (   I
I ;

MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
CHAPTER V.
I saw there was no use arguin the qu stion with the Captain, for
I e looked just like he meant what h said; so my man and I just.
talked out and took a seat. I never id feel. so comical in all my
born days. I want no lawyer, I kno ed, and if they commenced
piishin the law pint, I knowed I was a one inner. I didn't know
abthin but straight along talking, and it ould be a gone case if they
mmenced to examin bills, and arin   thousand questions about
B nks. But I thought I would risk i and there I sot for all the
w rld just like a fool, not knowing what t say or which way to look.
e captain took a chair and set right before us, and looked right
in   our eyes for more ,than a minute without aword. Says he,
hat's your name, and where are yo    from?"  Says I, mighty
gl d to tell you, Mr. Captain; my na  's Sam Simple from the
Mountains, gwine to New Orleans. "    hat Mountains ?" says the
Captain. Alabam Mountains: Why e tain, didn't you never see
thg Mountains ?  "Oh yes," says he. "And what's your name?"
sa  the Captain to my man. Now you gee I wanted to know that,
ver thing myself. He seemed mightyy othered. He turned first.
to ne side the chair and crossed his left 1 g over his right, and there,
qui ker than a minute he turned to tother side and crossed his right
leg ver the left, a kinder holdinhis le d down and lookin on the
floo all the time. He looked just like so ethin was the matter with
him Thinks I to myself you's the bigger t fool in the nation, why
don t you tell your name ?  The Capai had to ax him agin for
his ame. And he put up his mouth just hke a two year old child
be in for taters, and says, "I's tgn awa from Daddy because he
trea. d me so mean, and if I tell you my' ame he'll git hold of ne
and early kill me----I want to go West so I can make a living." 1
couldn't help feeling sorry for the fello , he looked so pitiful.


BY SAM 8IMPLR
°; Never mind about that," says the Captain,
me youi name."  "Well, Captain, you m
Simple, go away."  No, sir, says I, you've g
have ydurn. Mr. Captain, it won't be fai
"You ale right," says the Captain. "Syn l
and yoi must give yours."  "I don't thin
man. The Captain got a kind of wrath
dont give your name, I'll have you put
quick time." I tell you what, the name ca,
er," ss- he. I golly, says I, Mr. Captain
the reason he didn't want to tell his name.
tmountains. And you talk about havin a'
jou knows that's a lie, you never had hall
Why    ete I knows you just as well-wh
down hire on the Alabama river?  You'
Never ,,aid a word, but tried to make o
"Well' says thpe Captain, "I must fnow s'
Says I, Pete, do you say I took your money
had ay money' to'save your life, and thai
ll the time a beaten him.  ie's been goi
three months, and nobody didn't know whe
rocket book, says T, for' I know'd he didn
his name. "Yes," sayi the Captain, "
hawled min right out, and says I, Mr. C
the ldt, I had just 42O0 and two quarters
when I started, and I'se spent just seven
can sei how much is in my money purse.
says the Captain, "103 t 5.'  All right,
ready to hand him my tioney purse, who
noes, thc whole bottom of the boat went li
The Ca ptain jumped 'up, and says he, "Ru
like to got clear out of my throat. ' Anoth
bound I git all my cInthes wet before I g
right  after ny saddle'bags, and then I r
place osee what was gdin to come-of us.
ap is   hoir night clothes, and :t hollowiz

"all will be
st make thi
at my name,
to make r
imple has tc
k I can do
, and says
into this riv
me then. "
I knows I
He use to l
hundred do]
that much
ich way you
lost, pin't
t he didn't
ttle this m
? You kn
t's the reason
nc from hio
re he was.
't have a p
ull out your
agtain I'll te
and a dim
dollars exact
"That wol]
says I, an(
1, earthqual
,e it had be
a on a snag,
ir ducker, sc
t to New()
in right out
Eyerybod;
what's theo

right; giv
man, San
and I. muss
e go away
Idhis name;
t," says mi
h e, "If yo
'r in doubl.
Peter Slash-
im. That'.
ye up in th
lars! Pets,
in your lif .
1gwine wa
you ? Pet,
know ie.
mey affair.$
w you never
his daddy's
e more tha
WVhere's gou'
eket book  o
purse."  I
11 you what 's
and a thrip,
ly; now you
d leave you"
I wad getto i
cs and volka-
iu pulled out.
My he rt
ys 1. ' I'll e
leans. I r im
in that, front
i was jumin
nutt' r.Te

MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS                28
41 boat rocked first one side an  then tether, and she looked just
like she was gwine to turnover. , The waterjust poured in and ,she
bgan to sink. The woin was a hollowin, the children a cry4
aad nobody knowed what ho was oin, They'd first run to this si~s
the boat, then to tother, and ax about a thousand questions., I saw
the cotton bags a floatin ofp, and, knowed if I could get on One f
ihese creatures I'd land safe, for I'd rode many a cotton bag down
the Coosa. So I picked 1 y chance and made.a4jump for a cottL
bag what come a floatin along. I jumped a lebtle too strong and it
the further edge, and into the rive I went. Whew ! says I, for the
water was a leetle cold when I first dipped under., When I shot up
to the top I looked for my bag-it was just ahead with my saddle
bags ridin as grand as ifthey yas somebody. You ase wheai
struck too far over on the bag, I was thinkin %o much about catching
that I forgot mny saddle bags, and they fell on the bag. Another
bag came floatin along and i just crawldd on to it like a tarapin one
log. I run my hand in my pocket to see if my money was wet fa
hang my buttons, there wasn't r o money purse in there. Ndw X
was in a fix. . Wet clothes on, npt a cent of mney, and yonde g
my saddle-bags .a elippin oft it to Mobile,, What would mam and
daddy say ifthey could. seeme a ,ettin down here 'on a cotton big
just as wet as I can be, a runninafter my snaddle-bags, with ,ll g
money gone. I felt mighty low downy but now and then I wow
try and pick up courage, and keep my eye on mysaddle)ags. Af-
ter awhile I seed a great sand bar just ahead and I tell you, I done
some tall prayin for both codon bagto hit the sand. Wut whmun,
saddle bags got towards the sand.it just turned towards;thee a
when I got there I went to the, right. I kicked, and screwedagd
shoved, but the old, bag would g) to the right. , ew 1 ,sad4
bags, says I, for I thought the ri er* forked here. I begin t1.
the hippo gittin all over oe. S adle bags gone, money gone,
here I am with wet clothes on, and akin the right fogik of the rfrc
iad no tellin where I'n gwine to;, I just be this fork don't go te
Mobile. The water was mighty s ift, and I had to hold on like,
teach to a rotten log, or my cotton bag would have runfrom uyn
tee, and left me there just setting on the water.. But this wasn't the


BY SAM SIMPLE.

rst time, 1 had rode on a cotton bag before, ax
hold on, and I kinder consoled myself that if I
nver, my passage was free ; I didn't have no m
Pete to- drag me before the Captain, for stealin b
knowed he ever had a dollar to save his life. I
give the money to Pete as to lose it in the rive
he didn't h ve sense enough to take care of it.
money, but  was gwine to hold on to my cotton
could sell it for something whenever I struck ti
I was goim along a thinking in this way when I
the 'sand brnk was, and behold! there, want n
4one passed the bank, and the two forks was ce
there soe my saddle bags looking like they wer
n1{ gloryT says I, by way of an accident I
yet. They kept coming till they got in about six
tere wie wee goin down the river even and eve
a4down on my hunkers to make a jump over te
aid every time'I'd 'get about ready to jump, ti
ictle further apart., And I knowed I'd have t
ar, for if Irstruck on one edge I'd throw my
ri'ei-, and thsa agin I knowed 'water was mighty
eke(d like six feet might be nine, and that would
jymxpin on a dead level. But I jes set there re
kg to Come ' leetle closer. After a while it got
made one of our strongest kind of jumps, the cot
ni'under ue likesa cob on "a plank, and I come d
haid ighxt on my'face.' I didn't jump a foot and
gt'strangled to death. I didn't go deep in the
ie- ug bot  cotton bags had left me. Now
ioney, gaddl bags and ,otton bags all lost.. But
£f f had go behind, and I thought I could catel
wi all xybnight. 'I could get most to it, and
kani to patoxton the bag, it would slip away front'
.ighty tired and. Iseed:if I didn't git hold pro
Idid4out-muh longer: I'was about the middle
m missed the big, I couldn't swim to nether banl

d I knowed
vas takin th
mey to lose,
is money, y%
3ut I might
though I k
I didn't I
bag, for I
e land.
looked ove
bank there
nuing togeth
going to m
nay get my
feet from n
i. I kinder
tether cott
e bags woul
 jump migi
saddle bags
[eceiven, an
d be might
ady, waitin
about right
ton bag sho
own as flat
a half, and
rater, but
[was in a
the bag I j
.it: so I'i
when I urai
Ie.  I wa:
Aty soon I co
f the river,,
Ifelt ju

how t
wrong
nor no
hen le
as well
nowed
ave no
knowe'd
where
e. I'd
or, and
eet me.
clothes
c, and
squat-
on bag ,
d git a.
ty tic-
in the
I what
good
for the
and I
tright-
your
like tor
hen I
pickle,
umped
ut out
ed nm
gittii
uldn't
and if
it like

f
!
S
.s
4i
g

24

MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
I was bound to drown if I missed the bag next time. So I made one
desperate struggle, and got up close behind the bag, but with all I
could do, I couldn't git niy hand on the bag. I began tothink the
jig was all up with me, when all at once I thought of a plan, that was
to swim by the side of the bag instead of against the end, for I was
makin the bag go faster by the wave I made in swimmin, and so I
turned a leetle to one side, and it' want long before I laid one hand on
the glorious old cotton ba..You can't tell me nothing about the
worth of a cotton bag ; and! I thought if I ever did git home, Inever
would raise nothin but cotton bags. Hurrah for -cotton bags ! I
just set down in the same lace where I was -ettin before ; and I'd
made up my mind not to junp after another  tton big. My saddle
bags was just ahead, but I was contented, an  I want goin to jump.
after theni any more.'
It was now gittin late in the evenin, and I knowed I'd feel cold
when it was night. If I'd had somethin dry to throw over me, I.
could git along pretty we'll? but I didn't have it. And I couldn't
move about on' the bag to keep 'me Warm, but I had to set right still
in the middle. I was goin down close to one bank .and my saddle
bags was way over on tothj side; I'd done quit greavin about my
saddle bags, and was watchzn for a lim to catch hold of. But after-
a little while the current carried' me a way out in theyiriver agin, end
I cane co-slap up against 1he tother cotton bag. 'I jerked off my
gallosses and soon lashed them together. Old Zip Coon and Old
Dan Tucker, if I just had somebody to do the pattin, if I couldn't
knock the very bottom out o an old Yirginnyinock-down-saddle
bags and two bags of cotton, gwine to market. hurrah for Mobile t
I felt just likehuggin my old saddle baos but I thought I wouldn't
be actin the fool here by'myself, and so I didn't hug that time. It
was now high time to look"up' some more dry clothes, and is there
was no Miss Eliza Battle" to make"me brake may neck, I just made
up my mind to take 'my tiin4. And so I very cooly rut my hand
into my saddle bags---.hallaluynh ! says I; here's my money purse.
Yes, sir!' I was in such a hurry'when the old boat tore up, I never
noticed what I was dbin, and I put my inoney purse into mny saddle
bags,instead of my pocket. Yes, here it is; bless your old sodl; if I


BY SA M SIMPLE.
don't love youa better than ever. Money a pleni
two bags oftotton, and aint paying a cent for ridir
Albanma river ! If I didn't feel about as good as
gress. It want long-before I had dry clothes or
ones out to dry. I reckon some folks would think
mighty poor dressin room, but you know the ol
-essity is the mother of invention, and beggars ou
and its all as true as preaching.
But there was one. thing .lackin-I didn't ;;
ready. It was now gittin dark, and I hadn't ec
aight at supper; and if it hadn't been for that ni
to last me to Mobile. I'lFbe bound I'll know ho
I git on the lboat. They just give you one good
o a stinag, and make you go the balance of the way
thing. But it was no use to be thinkin about eat
forget it. 1ut then I didn't have nothing else
-knowed it wouldn't do to go to sleep, for I might
jump in the river; and just to set up there on a
about, when it way just as dark as my old hat,.a
see what he jas-lookin at, was the poorest kind of
sot a floatin along and a saying nothin to nobody.
'ome,. all there by myself, away down on the
wouldn't minded it so much, but I couldn't see wl
didn't know  ut I might run over. some shoals orl
fhe nation knows what else might happen. there
gin to feel mighty sleepy, and; it looked like my
anyhow;-I felt just like some folks in the mee
holdin their yes open and then a kiagler shutting
one word an missen two.  'd pull first one eye,
.r, and rub. y face with my hand, and try to w
no go, for i less than a minute my head would
down worse ,tbau a.ork when you're fishin. I sv
be fighting against nature and so I just sprawled
both cotton lags, and I was asleep in  bout the
seed a feller.1 I'd worked mighty hard all day at
:ut rockin. I'd just about got into the subject

y, dry clothes and
Hurrah or the
if I'd been n Con-
and hung :ny wet
a cotton bag was a
I saying is, that no-
htnt todbe choosers,
e no supper gittin
t nothin since last
gger I'd eat enough
w to eat next time
neal and then run
without eaten any-
in, and so I tried to
to think about. I
get to dreemin and
cotton bag a looking
d nobody couldn't
fun. But there I
I felt kinder lone-
Alabama river. I
erc I was goin. I
run .on a. snag, or
i the dark. I be-
yes would shut up
tin house, a kinder
them up, a hearen
pen and then toth..
ke up, but it was
be bobbin up and
w it was no use to
myself out across
quickest you ever
d I just slept with-
ood, when I heard

MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,

-.4

.i
it
Y
i4
i

one ofyour keenest squeals. I jumped up and come as near as peas
a gittin in the water. Hallo! says I; what's that?  It squealed
agin, and I knowed right away a steamboat was comm. Rattle,
snakes and tigers, he'll run right over inc and never know I'm here.
What shall I do? He'll never hear me hollow in the world, and 1
might shake a shirt here in the dark until I shook all the film out
of it, and he'd never see it. The old boat kept comin, and every
wheel and everything else looked like it was makin all the noise it
could. I'll catch it now. I've worked .hard all day and done pretty
well, and now I've got to be run over by the boat at last, away down
here, nobody knows where. I thought I'd pray one more time be.
fore I went. I kinder got on my knees, but I couldn't think of one
single word, but the boat is a coming. Who can pray and the boat
right there ready to run over him ?  The boat run up tolerable
close, and the big waves came dashin along,. and my cotton bags
went a jumpin; and a waddlin about worse than a young colt the
first time you git on him. I had to hold mighty tight, and once or
twice I thought I was gone. And I knowed if I got out in the riv-
er, I'd never know which way the bank was. And I didn't have
timo to hollow for holdn on. But after awhile, I got out one big
hollow, and just kp( a hollowin. It want long before they had t
light out in the front part a looking all over the water. Here I am,
says I, what are you lookin for? .Somebody axed me if I was in
the water.' No, says .I; a ridin on two cotton bags, with dry clothes
on. Says I, what boat is that ? "Sallie Spann," hollows somebody.
Another gal boat, says IL; I don't like these gal boats much; they
are a little too delicate for me. They let down a battoe, and I got
into it, and they soon had me up in the boat. The very first man I
meets is that same Pete. Here he was a standin like he was waiting
for his money. Now I'll have another scrape, says I. If I'd know-
ed this I'd staid on my cotton bags. But I never let on to Pete
like I knowed him. I felt mighty like eating something; and I told
the folks I was hungry as a wolfe. They soon had me something to
eat, and I tell you I done the subject justice. After I eat enough.
I was mighty careful which way I went for fear I might meet that
same old Captain. Here Pete was and no doubt he had the Captain


MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS
28                 .    1W SAM SIMPLE.
along, a lookin or me, and there was no tellin how many lies Pete
had told him, fo he was a monstrous liar. I just f It like they hat
me fast and Peta would get that hundred dollars ye
CHAPTER     V.
As I said I was mighty particular how I walked about the bout
het I might stumble on the same old Captain. So after I got my
erqiper, I crawled into one of them little rooms, and took oni f your
aeundest kind of naps. I got up just time enough for breakfast;
fr.I'm not gwine to be too late for eating time. I was a lectie afraid
a go to the first table, as the Captain might be there and see me.
-S I just -kinder pokes my headout of my room, and takes a survey
1,p and down the table, to see who was there. I saw Pete doing his
best, but I couldn't see the Captain. So out I walks and takes a
e t. I looked agin for -the Captain; but he want there. Takin care
Rf his owa boat, I spects, says I; he's a sensible man, says I, better
doe care of his own affairs than to be running about after Pete's
hesiness. I felt good enough now, for I want afraid of Pete. So af
s gre' I got over the skeer of the Captain, Icat with a comingstomach.
After breakfast was over a good looking man asked me if I want
t  man they picked up last night. Yes, sir, says I; I was clippin
l it to Mobile, with two cotton bags; and I told him all about it.
He took a powerful liking to me-says he, "Old fel, you'll make a
nior-walk up," says he, "I want to give you a treat." So we
Ses u p to where they keep the best of the good stuff and I fills my
tumbler brimniin full. It did look so nice I thought I'd take a
gd one. I felt it kinder lift me up wheh it got down into my
4 smack. It was a mighty curious kind of stuff. It would begin
4Ea burn about my stomach, and go to the very end of my toes. Then
a would take tether direction, and run up into my head and made
me feel like I was turning round in a swing. Everything ooked
like it was bobbin up and down, and everybody else seemed for all
the world like they were drunk. The old boat itself got crazy-
" ne side was higher than tether. and the chairs looked like they

Y

i'
I
Ili
i
II
f

0


BY SANM SIMPLE.
would slide dotwn all on one side. Every way Lr
I kept stepping up like I was trying to git on to
felt mighty comical; but nevertheless, I felt mi
as a Jew-Po ket full of money-money no.more
who enres for money ?-1Tm the best man in A
throw down,  ut jump, jump higher, jump furth
jump stronger, than any man from Gen. Jackson
Who cares for spenses ! Hurrah for hurrah!
But after this good feelin kinder cooled off, t
sicknin, rollin, tumplin sort of turnin up about
thun ipecac and lobely.. All the biskite, and ni
and wafers ajd butter, and fish, which I eat fo
like they had 'all gone to turnin sumnmersets, and s
ed so high, tIey almost turned clear out of my
me in mind o the horses when they first come ou
all would go r und and.round, then kinder cross c
altogetl er, so that nobody could tell which horse
something like an old clown, a bobbin up here a
there, in everybody's way, and all the time a sti
else. The big drops of sweat just come out all ov
en, and I: felt just like I could drink Dad's
Mighty tuff f elin about this time. .After awhile
railins of the boat, and just made one strong ho
water, liquor, breakfast and no telling how much
together; enoughto;make a dog sick. It helped.:
little while I begin to feel smartly better. WI
missed twenty dollars, Says 1---" Whose got my
lost it playin cards," says Pete  Playing card
nothin about playin cards, Says, Pete, "After
drunk he soon had you playin, and if it hadn't
had the last pent you've got; but I took you aw
bed."  "Why, Pete, that was mighty clever.
good fellow after all." "'Well," says Pete, "I sa'
but that twenty dollars, and now how much yoi
it ?"  "How  nuch 'do you say, Pete ?" says I.
I reckon " says Pete. So I pulls a)it te doll:

went was up hill;
p of something. I
;hty good. Rich
han newspaper-
labama-out run,
ier, jump longer,
to Billy Bowlegs'
here was a nasty,
ny stomach, worse
eat, and sassages,
e breakfiist looked
me of them jump-
outli. They put
t in a cireus; they
ver, then 1Mix up
1i was ridin with'
ad a prankin over
-rin up everything
er without squeez-
pring branch dry.
I got hold of the
igh, and out come
nore, all mixed up
no mightly. In a
en I got over it I
money ?" "You
? says I--I know,
lhat fellow got you
been for me, he'd
ay and put you to
I believe Pete's a
ed all your money
swine to give for
About five dollars,
r    d a  give it to

c

M1 FIRST TRIP TO NEW 0IJANS,
Pet1. We was now come into Mobile, and I made up my mind,
when I got off the boat, to give that felbw,who got my money a
sharp talk. So just as we all got off, and I got a chance at him, y
just laid my hand on his shoulders, and looked him right in the
eyes, and says I, " My good fellow; what.did you mean, to make me
drunk and then get twenty dollars oit o me ?"  "What do Yobs
mean ?" says he, sorter bristlin up. P stols and cotton hooks,
thinks I; first thing I know I'll be in a pond of water, reachin for
the cotton bank. "Why,' says I, "Pete told me you played cards
with me when I was drunk, and got twen y dollars out of me, and
if it hadn't beeni for him, the said Pete, y u'd had all my money"
4 A triflin puppy," says he, " I thought at the time there was some
rascal in that fellow you call Pete. He go your money. He came
to you and told you that you owed him one hundred dollars, and that
if you would give him twenty, he'd let you f. You pulled out two
tens and handed them to him. I thought it was all right and said
nothin." A rogue-and made me give h m five ore for stealing
twenty. Where is Pete?°
I felt just about like I could whip the haIf of Mobile. Twenty-
live dollars gone for nothing : and Pete has )t some of my money ai
last. If I lay my eyes on him I'll make hi  see blue blazes. Pete.
a low-bred, dirty dog, get twenty-five dollar. of my money and then
rnke -out like he's a friend. Tried to get a hundred and couldna't-
get it, and now he must. have twenty-five. And then to think I
give him five dollars for being a clever fellow. I'm niad.enough to
whip myself, that I was ever such as fool e o believe one word that
he said.
Let him put his foot on the bhoat that goes to New Orleans, and if'
I don't teach him a lesson he won't forget till he gets back to hi4
malmmy's house. I'll show him how to b playin his pranks on a
mountain gentleman, gwine to New Orleans. I was so mad I didr'.
hardly know what to do- with myself, and no I just made up my
mind to hunt him  up. I put my saddle bags on my left arm, ana
the way, I went somewhere up town. I went first along one street
and then I'd go along another. The houses! the houses ! the houses
I'l ut he eonflummieke1l if thie ain't some own itself. ' walked


BY SAM SIMPLE.
and walked and I couldn't see tother side. I
and the twenty-five dollars. I would read the
the doors, first on one side of the street, and
and read on tother side. And if you believe
great big letters clear across the street. Why
I, don't schoolmasters have big.letters like th
_see, instead of these little crooked things in the
more whip ins about them everlasting A, 13 C
spellin book than would take all the hair off a
had some o' these. big letters what I could se
have studie:1 and played ball, and jumped rope
Teachers always do have the, hardest way of gitt
of anybody else in the world. They don't kn
.but just sitcross-legged in a school-house, c
how smart they were when they: went to school,
the creatur s.
I was just am using away in this kind of style
pin fellow s'iys to me "Mr., have you lost anytlt
but I'm loo-in for somebody.  "Who ara you
For Pete, says I; and when I lay my eyes on hi
ticular )avr. Have ydu seen Pete, Mister ?
says he, aPete went along there not many mi
way ? says i. "  Just around the corner," say.
says I, I'll 4ateh him yet. I put out in a hurry
couldn't help thinkin how that nian could know
time I rai ed my eyes and I seed Pete walk
right across the street, a leetle ahead. I holl
but lie never: noticed m'. I put right after hi
to stop all tlhe time. The folks run out on all s
the matter.   1 never paid no attention to no
after him. I come up to himas he was about
and down I fetched him.   Where's my money
givin' it to im, f rst under the ribs, then in th
le hollowed like a clever fellow, but that did'
to have n   money, 'ai d so I kept a knockin'
agreedd to 'ive me all ie had. lie give mefill

ust clean forgot Pete
Treat big letters over
hen I'd turn around
me I could read the
n the carnation, says
'se, what boys could
spellin book. I got
s in old Webster's
dry cowhide.  If I'd
1 anywhere, I could
all at the same time,
in anything anyhow,
)w how to do nothing
haw tobacco, and tell
I'se got no use for
when a great strap-
lg ?"   No, says I;
okin for  ' says he.
m I'll give him par-
ays I.  " Oh, yes,"
utes ago." Which
he.  On his track.
to find Pete, but I
Pete. About this
n with all his might
wed to hin to stop.
a hollowin to himn
des to see what was
ody, but kept right
o round the corner:
says I; and I kept
face and all over.-
do me; I was gwine,
. , After awhile he
teen dollars and said

MV FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
he'd spent the balance. Where's the thi gs you bought, says I.,
and I was about to jump on him again, hen a, man put his. hand
upon my shoulder, and says he, "Gentleme go with me to the Guard
House, we don't allow fighting in the.street .',  Go where? says L--
"Come along," says he, "I'll show yot he way. You can't miss the
place."  I knowed from his looks-that he rant jokin, and he looked
like one of these shooting fellows, and it wouldn't do to fool with him.
So Iete and I followed right after 'him.  Then4I was gwine along
I couldn't help thinking, and I didn't-feel eactly right. Says I, Mis-
ter, you aint wine to put us in jail, you aimt ?  "Oh! na," said he-
and he never said any more. Well, where in the tarnation is he go-
ing to carry us ? thinks I. To the Guard  ouse! and I wonder what
sort of a place that is, and what they will o with us. I know I do
have the most bad luck of anybody .i th world. Got left by the
boat, drawed up before the Captain for stealin Pete's money, missed
'the cotton bag and got into 'the river, go  drunk and let Pete get
my money, and now, I'm gwine along her with Pete, away to the
'Guard House. I wonder what mammy ani daddy would say to see
'their son in company with Pete, agwine to the Guard House. I
could hardly keep from crying. I thought I would turn my eyes to
one side to see what Pete was doing. Bless you ! Pete looked like he
was proud of his company. ie want gri vin about gwine to the
duard House. No, not him 1 He didn't care where he went so he
got something to cat, and 'he knowed he didn't have no money, and
this was about as good a chance as any,
I felt like kickin Pete for looking so happy. About this time we
come to the Guard House ; and we went i to see what was goin to
come on us. I couldn't help feeling a little skeered when I went in-
to the Guard House. It aint nothing but  jail, says I, called by an-
other name. And ['se got in jail at last and there's no tellin what
will come of me. When they git folks in jail they just work them
=to their notion. The man who brought us to the Guard House said
the Marshall was not in and we must ait till he comes; so he just
'put us up in a room and locked the door. Cold chills and Texas agues,
never did have the all-overs so in my born days. Locked in a lit-
il room in a jail house in Mobile. If this paint gwine to New Or-
3


f

MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS.

04                     BY SAM SIMPLE.
teans with a vengeance. 1'd rather ride cotton
be shut up Lere. This is what I git by quittin
gton the' allie span.'  I tell you these gal b
aint gwine te ride on any more of them. Well, I
tented, and  I'll sit do*n and wait for the Mari
1

CHAPTER VI.
I just sit down in one corner to make myself as easy as possible,
for I didn't know what was wine to become of me. I had mighty
curious kind of feelins. I would have gin-every cent Iliad to be at
home. If I could just get back once more, you'll never ketch me
wine through'all- that kind of trouble just to see New Orleans, be-
cause a schoolmaster had been down there. It is no pleasure to
travel if one has to go through all the difficulties I've been through.
And now after I've suffered so much and worked so hard to get this
far, here I am stopped and locked up in a Guard House, and that
with Pete, a triflin, good-for-nothing fellow ; here I am disgraced,
and no body to help me to get out of the scrape. 4nd all of this af-
fair will get back home long before I do, and will spread all over the
country, and as it will be certain to grow as it spreads, there is no
tellin what will be in everybody's mouth before I get home.' P'm
ruined and there's no way to help it.
When I got about this part of my thinkin, and my heart was sink-
,in lower and lower, I heard somebody puttin the key in the door.-
0 cracky! I felt just like a rattlesnake was crawlin down the mar-
row of my back bone, and these red-headed scorpions were travelin
along every nerve. My legs got so weak, my knees began to knock
together like old Belshazzar's when he seed nobody writin on the
wall. My jaws got a kinder stiff, and my breath was gettin mighty
short,a my eyes began to get a beetle fixed in my head, and a curious
kind of colds and chills run over me, that made Ay hair feel like it
was all standing straight out. The door opened' and in popped a
great double jointed whiskered fellow, that looked as savage as a

35

ags all uight than
my cjtton bags to
Ats w nt do, and I
just als.well be (conL
halld


BY SAM SIMPLE.

meat axe. He scared nmi so, I felt as stiff as a po
to the top of my head. I was all for the world
mrble, and if anybody had just pushed me, I'd fe
all to pieces.. The man stopped and looked at me
ished. There is no describing how I felt for a
looked like I wasn't myself, but gettin as fast as I1
twin else. I felt like I wasn't flesh nor blood, but
t- some other substance, and the spirit which used
kie :nd nuke me feel like myself,, was now gettiu
and narrower place, and like a candle burning on
wick way down in the candlestick, I felt like the 1
put out the vital spark, and I'd he no, more. The
me and took a look at Pete. He spoke to Pete,
shall was ready to lyar Our case. ie spoke so kim
and I felt for all the wold just like I had shed
We walked into another room, and there set th(
logged, gant, hard-faced l okin old customer. He
he ever knew what pity was, and as for mercy
or the word. The thing is up, says I, nothing but
death is ever to be got out of such a look n pie
that. In a few minutes hie stated what had been t(
guard, and give all the particulars, and wouud up I
each one fifty dollars. C ne-break and Florida In
ter, do you allow a man to say a word in his ow
pass sentence ? says he. "If you have any def
coed, sir."  Says I, Mr. Marshall ofthe great city
travelin on my way to the crescent city of New O
trip, in company with nobody savin myself. Iliv
twins of the State of Alaba na, and have as good an
as anybody this side of the Rocky Mountains. I'o
much from home and don't exactly understand th
of travelin people, and consequently I've made a
conic along my route to this place.. In the first p
double for my first supper; then I wasn't in a biy
getting in the stage, and had to take a seat with th
co high it kinder made my head swim, and we had

kor f0ou my heels
usF lke a block of
11 dowi and broke
is if he was aston-
1econ:1 or two. It
coul 1 to be some-
I was hordnin in-
to spread all over
ntc a narrower
the h st bit of the
hast motion would
man turned from
and said the Mar-
dly I felt relieved,
ff a hard shell-
Marshall, a long-
didu't look like
he'd never heard
imprisonnent and
e of humanity as
ld hin by the city
y saying he found
dians, says I Mis-
a case before you
nce to make, pro-
f Mobile, sir, I'm
leans, on my first
up n the Moun-
amn y and daddy
e n ver been out
* way s and means
few  stakes as I
hce   had to pay
enough hurry in
a driver, away up
't get far .before

- MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
I fell off. Then, sir, Mr.'Marshall of the city of Mobile, when I got
to the city of Montgomery, they put nie way round in No.-90, where
nobody couldn't find the way down, exceptin homefolks who knowed
all about the house, and I was so bothered about gittin down, that
the boat went off and left me. I then got into a scrape with .an
Irishman, and he kinder ketched a cotton hook into the se tof my
britehers, and keeled me head over heels into the Alabama, river.-
The boat '1iss "Eliza Bittle" was soon coming down froi iWetump-
ka, and it 'as all I could do to git on dry clothes before she'd-leave
me. I never was on a boat before, and-somehow I didn'tunderstand
the sleepin fixins. The captain put ne in a little' room with this
same Pete; but Pete was asleep on the lower shelf and I didn't
know it was him. Away in the night when everybody was asleep
but Pete, he was a standing there hollowin, like somebody was killing
him. "Thief! thief!" I herd somebody hollowin in my sleep, and
it scared me so I never thought where I was, and I went to bounce
up, and afore-I knew it, I fell clean down from the top shelf.-.
The Captain, hearin a powerful to do, popped into the room and
wanted to know what was the matter. This same Pete told the cap-
Lain that someboby had got all his money, when he knowed at the
same time that he never had one dollar to save his life. The Cap.
tain took us out to examine us., and I told the Captain how much
money I had when I left home, how much I had spent, and he could
tell how much I ought to have ; and I was just about to hand him
my purse, when the boat ran on a snag and commenced to sink.-
Of course the Captain didn't have time to attend to me, and every-
body begun to lookout for themselves. I made a jump for a cotton
bag, and way I went agin into the Alabania river. I got hold on
another bag and got, on it. I rode for one whole day and most of
one night. The Miss "Sallie Span" come along, and took me up,
and there I found the same Pete agin. - Next mornin a man treated
me because I had been lucky enough to be saved the night before,
and as I wasn't used to drinkin, it made me drunk. And, sir, MrJ
Marshall of the city of Mobile, certain as you'r born, when I was
drunk this same Pete got twenty dollars out of mne, and when I got
sober he come to ome with a sweet .mouth, ad told mc 1]Ow he took


38                      BY SAM SIMPLE.
care of me when I wais drunk, and I gin him five dollars for his kind
ness. And, Mr. Marshall of the city of Mobile, sir, when I come to
find out how 'he had treated me, it made me so mad, I hunted him
all over this big famous city, and I found him and was givin him
Davy, when the guard man tool, me up. And I never got but fif-
teen dollars out of him, and the balance of ten dollars he gave to the
Captain of the boat for his passage. This is -th  way he travels on
other folks' expenses. And,- now, Mr. 'Marshall of the city of Mo-
bile, sir, I, think it mighty hard for me to pay fifty dollars for try-
in to' git my tights. I didn't know you didn't allow folks to whip
fellows who took their money away from them, or I'd got Pete out-
side the city and then I'd give him a sound lambastin. Now,, Mr.
Marshall of the city of Nobile, sir, I leave it with your honor whether
I ought to pay fifty dollars, when Pete aint able to pay one cent.
The Marshall kinder straightened himself up in his chair, and says
he, "sir, you are a wonderful fellow, and I can assure you, I have
been deeply interested in your -singular narrative. If I had time 1:
would be pleased to know more of your history. Your defence, sir,
is an able'one, and I have no reason to doubt one word of it, and so
well am I satisfied that you have been imposed upon, that I release
you from the fine, and extend to you my best wishes in your future
travels."
I made a very polite bow, and left him and Pete where he couldna'
pester, me again' ,I ntw went as fast as I could for the boat. I
heard it whistle, and I was afraid I'd get left again, and 1 might get
into some other serape before I knowed it. When I got down to
the wharf there was two or three boats going to New Orleans, I wasn't
goin in any of your Mis Eliza nor Sallie-no sir, I was out with the
Misses. This want no river I was gwine on now; and I didn't want.
none of your delicate kihd of boats, what was always happening to ae-
cidents. I wanted a su staunch old fellow, what could ride the an-
gry waves in a storm, ad carry you over safe and sound as a dollar ;
so I looks Found and fids the boat "Georgia."  Ah, says I, that's
my favorite State-the eystone and pillar of the South. No run-
nin on snags with this toat-no accidents happen to the noble old
State of Georgia. I'll risk it, and feel as safe as if I was in main-

MY FIRST TRiP TO NEW ORLEANS.

/

39

myams, So I just we mt abroad, and set down like I was at
home, It want longsbefore we was offfor New Or'ans. It was late
in thcevenin, and the boat just skimmed it over the water like d,
dy'ssgeesO in the mill pond. About night we got to where the big
whips all, stop, and bring goods and chattles to Mobile. There were
lots of ships out there, and the tall masts looked like an old pinefor-
est triumed up. It"was one of the prettiest sights I ever did look
at.  It made men feel kinder sublime and good ,ll over. But we
soon passed them and night came on, and I couldn't tell which way
I was gwmne.
We got our supper, and after a little chattin we all ' begunto gap
and get sleepy. I soon found a roostin place in the back room next
to the women. 'There wasn't nobody' in miy room Ceptin me myself
so I could lie on the top shelf or the bottom shelf, just as I pleased.
Thought I would try the bottom one first, and if that didn't suit
me ['d go up higher, I just stretched myself out' and there is no
telhia how good I did feel with nothing to pester my mind-no Pee
here to get my money-no Miss EHiza Battle to be runnin on snags.
I felt as snug as a chinch in a fat man's shirt, or a flea in a yarn
sock; and I just sided off to sleep just as easy as tuniblin down
stairs. I took - one good sopnd common sense sort of naps-one of
those naps what are so solid, that you, can almost feel it when you
wake up; and I was lyin there thinkin about thing and matters in,
general and a figuring a little about how I should. d4 when I got to
New Orleans, and my thoughts was rumnia in this wy, andmy mind
about half way between the.land of wake and the land of sleep-was
jtest gittin ready to launch into the second nap-when all of a sud-
den, as if Gabriel had:planted one foot on. land and tother on sea,
and sounded that everlastin trumpet that shall wake the nations of
the dead, I heard a sound, a crash, a burstin up, like all the cannons
ofa hundred battle fields had bursted. The old boat riz up out of
the water, and I could feel it as it went back to its place and begun
to sink lower and lower. I could here somethin like hot iron when
thrown into a blacksmith's trough. I sprung to my feet and gather-
ed up my things--I run into my clothes in a twinklin of an eye. ,I
heard the cries, and, groans, and shreiks of women, and of men and


ItY SA: SIMPLE.

f children. The boiler's bursted, says I, and we are all blown sky
high. I threw open the door and such lamentations I never heard,
Allwas dark as midnight. I thought I would get where somebody
eke was. I made one step, and down I went among the bursted boil-
ew-I lodged upon the top of a wood pile close to the boilers, whilst
the hot water dashed up against me, like it came from the spout of
aw tea-kettle. This was too 'hot a place to stay-in, and yet I was
afraid to move, lest I right step into ones of these boilers and be
s alded alive. While I was here thinkin what to do, somebody from
above gave a shriek and made a jump and landed in one of the boil.
er. I heard them make a flounce like a fish in a net, and one groan.
and all was over.
I could hear cries on every side of me; some near me, some fur-
ther off; some seemed like they were just breathing their last, and
others likethey were sufferin all that flesh could bear; some iere in
the water cryin for help  some-groaned like they were buried be-
neath the-broken pieces of the boat, and drew their breath like as if
heavy timbers were lyiri across them. I could hear the shrill, sharp
cries of the little babies in different places, like their mothers had
left them to shiftfor themselves. The whole air was filled with cries
and groans. I reached up over my head to feel for anything to which
I could hold, so as to lift myself above the boilers-I felt something
like the end of a room with all one side torn off; I felt for a hand-
hold, and caught hold of a piece of scantlin and made a pull to lift,
myself up. I got upon, the sleeper of this room, when all at once
something give way, and down I went with the whole side of the room
on top of me. As it happened, one piece struck the wood pile, and
I fel in the water to the outer edge-from the boilers. The planks
fbI over next to the boilers, and, by some means caught on fire. I
was there under this pile of lumber and it afire. I could now see by
the light what I was doib, and which way to work. I was down in
the water-up to my waist, and my head in a few feet of the fire. I
moved some of the pieces of wood, which dropped, some pieces of
seantlin were lower than others, and-I just crawled between the pieces
ate  got on top of the pile. The fire was increasin fast, and getting
niighty hot, I got h)d of a pix rf f atlin And put one end on

MY FIRSE TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS.                41
the pile, and the other end right into the door of my room; I crawl-
ed right upthis pole-like a chicken goin to roost. I' got up safe.
and there sot my saddle-bags like nothin was the matter. The fire
was conin right towards my room, and I knowed I couldn't stay
there long; I k nowed I'had to take the water, so I just takes my
money and puts it into my neck handkerchief, and ties it around roy
neck; I thought maybe I could keep my head out of the water, and I
knowed if I couldn't keep -my -head out of the water, I wouldn't have
no use for money. After I got everythin ready, I pulled up my
piece of scantlin and reached it across to the women's side of the boat
for tyhe hind end of the boat t ever Iblowed up. I took  iy saddle
bags and got dbwn on my pole and cooked it over. It wa1 ticklish
business, and I come mighty nigh losin my balance two or three
times.. If I had fell from the pole, that would have been the last of
poor Sam. I got over safe, and was soon among the ladies, There
was on e other man here, who was clerk of the boat. The fire was
coming fast towards us .- My room was now on fire, and it was next
to the ladies' room.. We all commenced ° gettin ready to take the
water; the women was all cryin and takin on'mightly. Poor things ;
they 'knowed if they got over their heads they couldn't swim, and
they'd be certain to get drowned. But there was no tim9 for talk-
talkin-the fire was comin. Better try the water than to burn up..
I tore down the doors and give then to the women,' and toldsthem
t jump. Some of them was mighty scared, but they made the leap.
We got them all into the water, and down I went with a plank.-
The fire was new  runnin all over the boat. The boat had run up
into a kind'of a lagoon, among old stumps and little dead saplings.
The water want quite waist deep. -I got down in the water on my
plank, and such a sight I never looked on. Here were men with
one arm, some with one leg,. some with one side of the, face torn off,
and some with no legs-at all.'Sonierere holdingn on to the little dead
saplins, some had crawled on to a stump under the water, and were
sittii up there ,ike a tarapin. on a chunk. The women were all in
the water, and some of them with their babies in their arms. . One
of these cold winds they call Northerners, commenced to blow, and
the air soon felt like ice. We all begun to get as near the boat as

I


MY FIRST- TPIP TO NEW .ORLEANE.

BY SAM SIMPLE.

,possible, to keep a little warm, for it looked like We would freeze to
death. The women were all shiverin, and the little babies looked
like they would die, certain. I had my saddle bags, and 1 took out
,britches, shirts, coats, and everything, and give them to the women,
I pulled off my coat and jacket and handed them to the women. -
Just throwed my old"saddle bags over my shoulders for a shawl, and
there I stood,.cold,,as ices takin the wind.. The women want think-
in about fashion now, and, it didn't take them no time to get into my
old clothes. The boat burnt down to the water before day, and the
wind got seven fold colder. Icebergs and Northern seas! thinks I,
we've run upon top of the North pole. I felt so'cold till I couldn't
feel. You could hear the teeth clatter all around you like the springs
of a buggy knockin to ether. Every minute looked like an hour.
and, night looked like t had turned around and gone back after
tother day. The light of the boat was gro iu dim, and darkness
was gittin -all around its. Death 1the dark, thinks I, and here
we'll all die, not seem one another, and when day comes there won't.
be anybody to see who's alive. There we all stood, like posts drove
down in the ground and nobody sayiniothin.
e      e

CHAPTER Vii.
I stood there 'in the water  ith that cold Krihe er'blowin u-
on im  until I begin to think I wasturnin to one greattbig icicle. I
never did want~to see day conie so bad in all my life. Pve been sick
and couldn't sleep, and lie on a bed and turn first on one side and
then on tother, throw my arms outside of the cover, and push my feet
about to find a cool place, and look at the cracks and windows to see
if I could see some sign of day comin, and listen to hear the chick-
ens crow, or hear somebody make a noise like they were gettin up
%u-'t all this aint nothing to standin in the water, and cold Northern-
ers blowin on you. I looked all around the heavens for a sign, even
as big is a- man's hand, that day was coming. I thought surely one
of the old plagues of Egypt had comedown on us, and gross dark-
ness was covering the people. Will the night never end, thinks I ;
I kept watching and wishin uetil I got'perfectly reckless. I knowed
I was gettin up pretty close to the door of death, and if day didn't
'oon come, so we could see what to do with-ourselves, all our cake
would be dough with us. After awhile, low down close to the water, I
seed a few red streaks. Day's comim, says I; glory in 'the highest!
I felt just like shoutin. You could hear them all movin about in the
water when I hollowed out; as' all of them was just like me,,nearly
dead to see day come. I 'tell you it was tight papers. The red
streaks got larger, and after a little a light streak got under them.
'adi the clouds commenced td, part, andday begun tope p out. .1

J

1


44                     BY SAM SIMPLE
watched it close, for I was studyin the phylosophy of day break.-
Day kept coming and the Northerner kept blo yin. When it got
light enough'to see, there we all were standin all around in every
direction. There were nearly one hundred sca tered all over the
water. Such another sight, never eye looked or.. Here stood the
beautiful lady in man's trowsers and coat, all  hiverin with cold;
there the young mother with her first babe, hugging it to her bosom,
to keep the little thing from  freezing to death; sere the aged mat-
ron, with white snowy locks sporting in the chilly blast ; there the
lame, the mangled,} with shivered limbs exposed{ to the cold and to
death. What a sight, thinks I, and no help. a hand. A boat ! a,
boat ! thinks I. I wasn't particular about the Misses now. I had
now learned by sad experience, that there want nuch in the name.
I trusted to the Eliza Battle and she run.on a sn'tg. I then put full
confidence in the Georgia, thinkin there was no  anger of a difficul-
ty, and here we are all blowed up. After day we all got up close to
the old boat, which was still burning. 1 got up on one corner, and
was sittin there thinkin about no tellin what, when I heard a steam-
boat whistle. I wasso glad I jumped right off into the water, and,
clappin my hands together, I just done some f the right kind of
shoutin. We had a Veal camp meetin for a little while. It was the
right kind of feelin. too, and no mistake. The old boat soon. come
puffin up, and the p ople all run out to see a sight they had never
seed before. It was the Magnolia boat, on its way to New Orleans.
They took us all on board, and was mighty kin, to us. They just
unlocked their trunk and handed out clothes. atd the captain gave
us all free passage to New Orleans, The britches I got hold of were
a leetle too big, but iato them I went.' There w" s right smart room
to spare around the waist, but I kinder hitched them up with my
gallasses, to keep them from droppin off. The c at was one of these
long tail blues with a mighty short waist. The tiil was one of these
sharp, hawk-tail sort, and reached down to about my knees.. When
I walked along I could feel it touch right in the hollow behind the
knee, just above the calves of my legs. The collar was a great stiff
thing aid run up the back of my neck to half xay the top of my
head. The jacket was one of these long revolutionary sort, with

MY FIRST- TRI
great 'big flaps on the pockets, a
I lost my hat in the dark, or i
mte one of these bee-gum fellows
down to your head. It was a
my ears and -sorter sot down o
britches were broad cloth, and t
though -they didn't fit, and I w
ladies told the passengers how I"
bags, and how I pulled of my co
cold just to accommodate them.
a bran new suit out and out, wh
no objections to such a move in
unanimously.
We got to the landin sonic six:
o'clock, when we took the Railr
gittin there.  They just took me
to dress me from top to toe, in t
jerked out his little tape string
and down tother, and all around t
utes before you wouldn't have kn
big glass, and looked at myself, I
But it was. They then carried
pitcher, with. a whole plaster of
and all this sort. I didn't exactly
this was gittin higher up in the
carried me around to the St. Chat
dinner, they all shook hands with
mighty solemn, and two or three
but I was afraid I would spoil it if
but I just let two or three big tears
on their own hook.
Now I was here by myself, and
Orleans. They had hauled me a
dressed me and turned me around
till I'd almost lost what little sens
where I was. or what I was doin.

' TO NEW  )RLEANS.             45
d reached down nearly to my hips.
the fire somewhere, and they gave
what's broad at the top and tapers
leetle too big, and kinder-fell over
my coat collar. But the coat and
e vest was some kind of yarn cloth.
as determined to wear them. The
give all my clothes out of my saddle-
t and jacket, aid stood there in the
They said hey intended to give me
en we got to New Orleans, T had
self. and so I just let the bill pass
miles from New Orleans, about ten
ad to the city. We wont long in
p to the tailor's shop, and told him
he very best he had. The tailor
and measured me, first up one side
ie middle, and it want many ' iin-
wn me. When I went up to that
couldn't hardly believe it was inc.
me around and give me a silver
vritin on it, tellin what I'd done,
know what to do with the cup--
pictures than I had been. They
les', and after the finest kind of
me and told ine good-bye. I felt
imes I was a great mind to cry,
did, and so Ididn't exactly cry.
run down my face of themselves
had just thought I was in New
out in their fine carriages, and
nd made so much to do over me,
I did have and I didn't know
I didn't know where my saddle-


46,                     BY SAML SIMPLE..
bags. was  nor. none of iny clothes. So I went up, to the one they
Ball the Cler1kand ask d him if he'dseenany sa le-bagafor Sam
Simple.. "Yes sir," said he, "they are iujyour roo ." Inmy room,
says I,. I havent got n9 room. q'Yes sir," says h , "theladies put
your clothes in.your xom and paid your beard fo a week. They
was all now gone, but i felt so much, obliged,to t em that I do be-
lieve if I'd had a good chance I could have kissed .very one of them
-ceptin that old ladyI would sorter dodge there.. They soon show.
ed me my room and there was my clothes hangii g round the fire
dryin. . I went in hnd took a seat. In New Orleans, thinks I, dry-
in clothes. Well it ai t cost me much to.gethere. I aint paid no
boat fee, cetin a little on the Sallie Span, I thins I'se been lucky
after all, and now I cai stay here a week. and eat aid sleep as much
as I please, and it wont cost me a cent.  And bet r  an al, d'
dressed up as fine as a fiddler.. I felt like looking at myself, and s
I got upbefore the gla  to see how nice I did loo,. .I turned first
one side then.I'd,turntother. I'd walk off a littl ways so I could
see my legs and: thenm I'd walk up closer. I'd et my new slick
fine hat on one side of my head and kinder hold Aiy neck stiff, and
then set it on tether side., I'd brush my hair as slice as a peeled on-
ion, and then I'd put my hat on and wouldn't jostle a, hair. Thinks
I to myself, there is no use to bettalkin, for Sam {nt none of your
common folks. I'se. a right down goodookin fello , and I m gittin
mighty popular, especially among the ladies. I j st put my hands
into my pockets and.I walked, backwards and forwards across the
room; and every time I come along by the glas , I'd take a side
glance to see how  dignified I looked., You, need 't tell me about
bein proud, for I just know its one.of the best feelin in the world ,
I begin to feel like I wanted somebody else to ee me, and so 1
thoughtI'd walk out to the city. I takes my gold- ended stick with
"Sam Simple" written on the head of it, andright u der it was 'Pre-,
sented by the Ladies of the 'Georgia')" , These  re sensible folks
here, for they didn't put me way round in No. 90 but down on the
floor next. to the citrance room, so, I could. coin  right out easy
enough  I went.out doors and commenced to looe about,   hy,.
s'ys I, thesu~ are the fmmniest4 folks I ever did. see,..they. (lont know

MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS.                47
how to hitch a horse to a wagon. Instead of kitchen two horses side
by side, they hitch one horse r ght ahead 'of tether. That's mighty
curious doins to me: And he e they were goin up and down and
cross ways and eveV way, and uch noise of rocks and Wheels; you
never did hear.
I wanted to look about. some, but I was fraid these Omnibusses
would run over me. I, however, thought I'd make the yeutare and
so out I went. I walked any w'iy and looked ever where. This is
some town, certain, and the talle 4t houses-git out. I saw so many
pretty things, I just wished I ha a million, so I could buy them all;
but my little hundred dollars aint no where for buying fine thins.
Kept sauntering about town ir this way, lookin at the nice things
t 11 first thing I knowed the su was nst down. Thinks I where
i i the world is the' St. Charles ? I 11 bet Idont get back there till mid-
n'ght. I thought Pd inquire, so I asked a man standing in a store
door, which way the St Charles 'ag. Creation and ]lunderbusses!
he talked Iluteh, Indian, Hebr w aud sqipelhin else. Wild bears
and wolff's en ! I've got down among the foreigners, and I'll never
understa   a word they say. I turned around and went back to-
wards the way I come, and 'I kep askin, but it was the same lino
all the time. Women, men, children, niggers, all of them talkthe
sanme kind of Dutch. Now, thing I, I've done gone down'among
these outlandish folks, and my board paid a whole week at theSt.
Charles, and I cant get back ther  to get something to eatr and to
sleep on them nice beds. Itwill e dark directly, and I wont know.
where in the nation I'm wine to  Botheration, I never do think
what I'm  doin till it's too late. iThy 'didn't I notice the houses.
when I come along, then I could'v found the way back. Worst of
all, I didn't take a good look at th St. Charles, and wouldn't know
it if a should see it. I seed a grea big house a little ways front me,
and -I made for it. I got there a td went in. Such talking, such
talking. Here were two or three m n;'there was two Or three more;
a bunch here and another there, an all of them talkin this kind of
talk I couldn't understand a word of. Into the very den of wild
beasts, thinks I; I'll git out of herd. Thinks I, this must be that
St. Louis Hotel what I heardso muc about. This is the place where

4


48                     BY SAM SIMPLE.
they~eat rat pies arid bull-frogs. I felt just like thr.win up, thinkin
about it. I got out from the place in a hurry to save my stomach.
It was now gettin dark and no St. Charles yet. Go e case, says I;
lost in the city of New Orleans;' butI had one consclation-if I was
lost, it was like a cow in a big fieki, there want muc danger of get-
tin out, so I just kept walkin. , They soon lighted  p the gas can-
dies, and I could see to walk:first rate.. First thing I knowed, I
come right up on a great big house-itwas the St. harles. I just
-smacked my month, and walked in, for I knowed my supper was paid
for, and I felt just like eating it. I want longaputtin supper away.-
While I was eatin I heard somebody say there was an auction to-
night, just over the street. Thinks I, I can go over there and get
back, and not get lost; and maybe I may buy someth n mighty chea p.
So, after I had packed away as much as I thought  ought to carry
at night, I got up from the table, a thinkin that the tavern man never
made much off them ladies, chargin them fifty ceni apiece for my
meals. I walked about awhile till I could see the re t of them leavin,
then I made for the auction. It want far, and I soon got there.-
They had a heap of things to sell; and, the man who was sell looked
-like his tongue was loose at both ends. He could say dollar, faster
than a whip-poor-will can hollow-it fit his mouth exactly. I didn't
understand the game of these auctions, and I was afaid to pitch into
it. Thinks I, you might get Sam in a suck some way, and I'se dress-
ed too fine to be gittin in difficulties. So I kinder Iheld off till he, put
up ono of your ring-striped sort of coats. Says he, "what will you
give me for this coat, with .the privilege of the lot? "  Thinks I, I
aint here on no expenses, and blast my old buttons, if I dont make
one lick at you. Halfadollar ! says I; an everybody turned round
to look at me. "Call around in the mor n," says he, "we havent
time to deliver goods to-night. I felt as proud as I could be, and I
couldn't help smilin every tinm I thought how cheap I got the coat.
I never bought another thing. I went back and went to sleep, and
in my dreams I could feel my striped coat on me, and it made me
feel good all over, I do think they are the prettiest coats that was
ever made. I knowed that when I went aback hone, and showed,
niam ny my striped coat"what I bought at auction for half a dollar

I

A

-he'd nearlptakeftsoot
'o y e stripes.         Neat
Tnhaom asI otmy bekfsI Put-bitfor, he Ai~inlos
Ther as agutf orftaree inbeezi8ar; U4Iwat
that attiped  coat I b h I tya
ukinderlcut  areyeeth t ua 'ii  4t   1OR
coat  uYes,"ay e ,tm               tge
tWo or three: such  lik  oj   e    h e 6
laughing to thinkithat dgtfioa e~1ri4ca:1d t~ ~
eimnetbin by eavelin, -n ' en ofnd6tI*~~t dg
har. espue]y:OniW eosat tad  11  a("h
ha teokoks, andw wibouttj oer serbt weheaE
"Mr., your bil is ju  even ti  dra
morrah! sayI, ho o dyu  da.e that ut
-ought one coa with the nil  o, tlienl
't h  ipriiege    ft  pot,and   the " rwusa.
ty coats in the lotwhichat, ty  n sntsgdrcoat,swill ebn   t' hi4
dellas  Says  , Mr.,  wantiddi te' ge th
wasbid  iojat for d a t.  ya  n   e t 4
. o w is IItiueto cotgctii l fk s an
forthe Ma'sha"  ueI s thinkstat ll do.
,Mster, Idon't believe 'I careaboui seie er
thi ks t1 mighty hard': fo        sa
coats to taecareom   her
i ddnt an nomoatwoitthese Mts~ls o hi
thity dollars: and he conedot te s. n dt
mo e  than two whel a1 dlook oh
know w hat i the world to doWith them eoats-  did
to d, when man touched  me on the elb ,  ads there r
thi way minute ;" saysb,, "They iuspo dyun itn sS kte  '
oat on-ou.  I  aa njeful pee of bsinek sbuttsh
ways woulddo just  s dird ty ti ks. h t aess;e b ati  hose
of our city inipose uponstrangeriri his  w a  'e e  a  tr an
tyou out of his scrape.  hae: an Aucio sa fwd
Fdw, and ifou will hae these daried  do heou llse a eomd
ft for you.  u  must  be  certain tobe  oh e "u j o the  e o
eo as  to  make  them  bring  at.a y e r,  and  r   yo   e
uake themi bring h nar o lhr an  ake  ne n t h

Y FIRS T TRIP TO NEW. ORI, ANg

ad


MY FIRST TRIP TO    WiMW ' ILEM
loved the fellow like a brother, right away, and felt a most like huga
S      le around like a shot in ,a shovel, to fiad soabody to
giq h       to the  utionuhouse, I  oonfon  an Irishmanr
e i       olato   rry the oats  He quI n'.quite earry,
'                     ,n  e a.efir
,. s  took a load. And ,here w.Wnteh       an and Hto,.
S     great updlp of coats, apfolkewil the rpmyanda o th et-
acmitioin house. When~we gotthce ,a mal was t p ollin like..,
y.coats were- piled up,.ready £,  a.I    atln
bire  nk  Iandgo1   putcoat,t ,and4'11yu heyet
Eev~  or I wa about to make some money on the coat trade. The
fitre- on thisside, th  on that, ut nobody never
'speigne oat ed i t  o  x eofeV n's     W t e ll thinks I.
I4 another time,and lie knocked themof on me W
aputem up at another time after aidar           hi tie
ey friend e running to me, n :   as , " yo      at h
mea inbidin om~thoea  ? bidhtsevntiv. ow,o  Tuj
min ays       -     -ad aeI got to take anoberlot of coats?
T       sio waytoneoto it" says Inhe;- "a man has brought them,
There's no #wayke sammys,,othe wol."Ho mn
oto sell, and he'llnever let yooff          l   H     n
artherme,       sk Sa   he, I d.nt know, but the ple is
estr thor    eat and fiddle-sticks ! sa$s II.; let us count
tsger.than counted an greanteI till I almost 'fanted, the number
asgittin so large. There were eighy-five coate Snaysand oute
I au take them coats. Says  ,
went, and I never seed him anymore-. After~ a minut or sub
e1ne a great savage looking hoosier, and, says I, d"idn't ya to
mfse coats ?"  Yes; says.mI  Y but it is a mitae. " dd' he  o
$ua s e 4You've got to take.theno, ir andlook
buy iotsy. ;  d;a      ~     '.  em  ayt  etu   tsa   .  e, a mnks bogthi th.ellwm
like he'd jump through e. Ahgators, tinks ,     oth fel ei
pounder me in a minute 'if I don't pay hiumg st I puledSout
money and paid him sixrty-tree dollars and seventy-fve cent
Iba no money, and coats enough for, a cross r I stoi' it

RY SAM S'IMpBrg
have more than ten dolla, and one hundred  d  to -
What in the world shall I 1o ?  My friend  an rone    oa
asked the auctioneer what I sloul!d cone           aej
" The auction has closed for to-day do   a   e4'
to peddle your coats in the country
where' will I find a man. "Il e'oe"sy.h;i        elit ~
he beckoned to somebody across the stet.i      a   ~~
with him and then brought himt     "
man who will peddle for you and be back a e  days he
give him some money to hire y1,wagon,,  How     h   a
"Abut en  olars"' That was all I had, execp  irde;)
I~~~         ~ wsiatihple, and I wanted rmy  cots sol so Igv  ,
ten dollars.


MT FIRST. TRIP TO, NEW OR.LEANS,

5.

14

CHAPTER -V1.1
After I had paid my pedlar the ten dollars, he pul
est his wagon, and I wont to the St. Charles. Thi
ay feelins as I went ,Tong: I'd. gone through all
osid hardly. made a grunt, thinkin when, 1 got to N
oee fun enough to pay for it all., My money .is now
tA-irve cents;, and heW 4Iha 'long ways, froir
a redin the world;  O 3 It em. who 'make outt
are the' worst enemies   got: Im a great n
et  fellow  do wn  h ttri    to  .make    rei~hp~
twaat for find in t elwf yaelt     lhiI'd, in
;A0h. If I' was to gets into oneof these fifty della
without money, they 4uld soon make hosh of me,
*4fir it thebhentj can.
I could not help- thinikin of' the pedlar and 'tha
.coata . &amp;,Now, thinks I,  he may be a right sharp fi
know but he may bring :me back a right sharp little
t did want to believe he would so bad I did" not kr
f4Iw  mighty fraid there'd be some slip somt

right out to
ere is no telli
m~y difficulties,
w Orleans,- I'd
;one but about
homec, without
hey are frieud~s
Ito  knock the
ith '. IT it
aka, some bones
scrapes now,
;( T will try to,
t  yC(t load of
allow, and who
pile of pion3y'.
LOW what to do;
wb  ere ,where I

l .

s ln'.ee.  itis the hard st thjnd inthe"" rl'  u
~gtso-tricky a n  t4  tlee~s hti -  ll   ¢ i 't  -    :rhtt
"  bidbl d r  t  othMer     r t,  Wi:d  a  "
et before, th&amp;e) dth'u, f4k M Y- 40d Ii1'
" rIeitdship            t"    u, i  w ~shf~i~n  1  ii
mone                                   ll y.  /  ..,,;1"ta  *&amp;third$ of the  f 1en 7h1ip'i&amp;  i { t
pry of heave iin orde o eiic*n  ii
i .tYe 04  len}a;lam in thie 1a4 t - f 1dhI foutY     t ~   ii h
Er waP410 Sphiwiri in this w  ,  u ~  4'r, ,r} "y_
S    i~r j i . Jd he ,t. i  t .  Iwe,   ao " '  t  - }'  r Qi,  *  . 42
wthheeayi.r y Hera Lam,      .' 4 j J Jr rin,
Jon , ,'. Thdi if y  iest r .or ti  oatI  of&amp;C7 1
all.a~jn.a~ a fo : these stiiped  *yo0 ' Ie 40 ~
1~thright iii eV ht rle e ru enoug lh ~  1
I want no mcore stripes!?Thd.4-a 04   -049 ~tOVtA:lv ti4i
nmucl as they pi a , utjhiis a thei il
fol~ayligr ite.~ oo t tsof hisaparent.*bl
d w n  h ere   to  N }w  L  4  i t}&amp;  ,  -dI1 S   £U1,i
tie ibilindt cagheir opinion on ,strires "Mntoutid
Jair just now, hrzis- to my ?Hied that Idint gth
S  o* 'oI know who 'to be inqirnI
"im.ZIjumped "right gup,:ax  ow~tI~itt $
WAY. r , o get bt toth ~ auctro h n:~Z
nrse  ightx i n,a uffiinhd aboi.Mstr  aIt~
xni.Im4,, what w~is the pedlars namhe?0'"Wa e~~? ~
sotrnrinny. The one I got to0 sell my coats.-ashe;   i krt

0

i


MY FIRST; TIP  TO NEWORLE ANS,
oiut your pedlar. . went to every one in t
' know arythin about huhi  Where's them
ood«graoiousTsay&amp;atle little fellow be
e   otells ; he-auctiozees in anypart oft
ee are needed: You won't come up with hin
. will he be hero again?   Sayshe, the
ih" t     Bless me 1e says ,I, the dog's dead at
pbak to my room and sot do wn, and felt likc
,O faintin. I'll never .hear froni the pedlar no
uotioneer and the p dlar fixed itill up before th
c ust greed to c eat me out of the coats. I
breat  like a man's obliged to do when he
ssre eruhed..Iwas now atethe"end of my row
F oop run ou  and I'd he compelled to le
gothere ras no tellin. I couldn't get
without money. I;just thought every way
n4.  '  ne,} o nough  to  get home on.  I  sot there
, ngellows on a little table, and now an
through my'hair. and my eyes fixed o4 the
4A   and a thiakin with all my might what
K.4allIdo?    Iuldn't see one ray of lig;htn
ohat i the world will become of me?  I'd
S       ndfI was to try to beg, nobody would gi
7    l id ' know how-to doany kind of city work.
1      e    that maybe mammy ,might have put
-   'Mu    debags, or:if some of my pockets, thinking
o t, for nammies are mighty thoughtful abo
40,., tndtook my d otergut of my saddle4bags, a
jo;    oney"" there I I searched ,every po
-arydie=no where. I want satisfied wi
I exeined agig but no money was to b
a p asI y~etiny isfied, and there's nmmt . zp al'
dieathought:Id write home, but I knowed I'
}pb ofre I' ever get an answer., Myweek wou.
eaood- gt my letter, and there was no tellin what
th me before I go her letter.  I was in a peck of

he house, but
an that cried
md the coun-
he city where
in a week "
nay not be in
d'out I went.
somebody on
rthe coats.-
ey got to me,
sorter drawed
knows all his
My week's
We, the hotel,
home, nor no
I could, how
with my legs
l then runnin
floor, a sorter
should do.--
o way I could
just die before
eime adime;
The idea come
some money
maybe that I
at such things.
ad felt all over
uket, but there
i searehin one-
found. The
tellin whatit
be turned out
d be up before
would be done
aroubic and no

IY 'SAM SIMPLE,
way I could get out. I didn't eat n ppe that night if it was pai
fyr.  I thro ed myself on thebed  and 'I rolled and tuigled at
night.  t ought of tenthoi and'  ays, but' one of dhen w*dk
purchase money. I got up ne'morzhi beo      rtl
when I laid dowp.'' took a littlebrea~kfft,;angnda:we b t
room.  I'd  b b wilin  to  be: auig  if I ould t j Sti e ,g
to get homie once nio-e. I thought of heine an4homee f6 l9 in11
'the tears sta tted, and I liked to {iled out loud.f  4f~ r
just knowe4   hat a fix I anin ' here .oh !: owherh  fortl bkI
for me. But poor old woman, no doubt she is cosnliWih  elf .
I im enjoyin  self. The idea now pwpped iht rdy~m yhaf she
my have writer      ' le a, tter, and Ne i} iiighe sdes nef b .
I- got right u  and put out to' hunt for the Pao e  tfriqii r
End soon found it, In I went, and say I, Mister,is ther l nyJettkae
here for Sam Simple?   fe 'lookecaout a     hiI andhndede
one of the pa ttiest littlelftters 'you ever did eea. '1gosh" sa i,
this never cone from hbme; for mammy never ed'o6 ae       ..
ins as this. I oeedit, and there wa&amp;s moneyin  'iHalleluy iI
says I, I don't care who you come from. Letme read it-'
"1'M. SAM .8\rme  -

dhe r
me
-the
sens
and,
pleas
at an
ay a
4o set

eight of i
: most gr
p, in the h
ladies, i
Ins; but,
rat opporte
of obligate
hough I
Saccept t
stiaepai
ged parent
the gentl

'-Your kindness to me on
o fatal accident of the Georgia, will ever be leld,
teful remeinbrante. Oh 'accuntof the les ofmy
arry oftleaving the wreckk I -ould not Join withtbe
intheir testimonials 'of gratitude, inte cityof New
ir, I should ever =feel dissatided, were .to neglect
nity of bestowing'Upon you some token ofthe deep
oni I feel under to youfor the-preservation of my le-
now'udthing of your circuinmtandes in life, yOu i"
o hundred dollars which I ehelosie;and should eu,
s rough Baton Rouge,'it is the earnest requescf
1 that you should'call on- them, as they'"are anxious
man who saved the life'of their onlydaughter.
"AN43ELINE G ILMOR+L


56             MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS.
Bless her little soul ! she's that little black eyed gal I give. m
coat to, off my back, and now she's sent me two hun red dollars, in
a time of need, and tells me to.come to'see her... BlessAhe Angelinesa
Go it pedlars, auctioneers and striped coats! Sam Smple aint be-
holdin to done of you, as longas pretty gals are plenifui. WomenL
folks will stick to a fellow in cloud and sunshine. There aint no
milk and oider about .woman's friendship.,. She rem ibers a favor
as long as life lasts, and when once she fixes her hea t i.pon the oib-
ject of her choice, the storm may come and the rain s descend, but
her love is eternal. I do wish all the men in the  vorld had we
men's hearts inside their bosoms.
If I'd saved a hundred men from the Georgia, the -d never givt;
me.the wrappin of my finger\ for it, and as to sending me money
after they 'got home safe, there'd be no such goodI luck. They'd
cheated me out of the Jast shirt I have, the next day, if they'd goo
a fair chance. Men are mighty uncertain, and I'm getting out with
them as well as striped coats. But, hurrah for the  omen ! If I
cant love anything in thq world that wears bonnets and hoops.
I was goin along in this kind of shoutin feelin, when I saw a steanm
engine come runnin right up into the city, Hallo! says I, I'll see
what this means. So I goes around to where the engine was, and
found out it was the cars from Carrolton, where the people go on u.
pleasure ride. . As I was full of funds, I thought  would take a
pleasure ride; for, goodness knows, it was high tim for me to set,
some pleasure. The folks were pullin into the ear l'ke sheep going
into a pen. I was a little slow, and there want no se t left, but one
by the side of a gal. Well, I want afraid of gals; for they were the
only true friends I'd found; so I walks boldly up an  pops myself
down by the side of her. Says I, Miss, you have no objection to my
takin a seat alongside of you?  "Certainly not," says she, as sweet
as lasses. More breath in a minute, if she didn't put my heart to.
gin worse than a flutter mill, She looked as sweet as red roses
dipped in the honeydew of the mornin, and fanne by the gentle
breeze from an angel,s wing. I couldn't hardly keep my hands off
her, the pretty, sweet little thing, I loved her so. Sh looked a lit-
tie like that black-eyed. gal: who sent-me the money; and this madte

BY SAM SIMPLE.T
me love her more than ever. My heart was about the right soft-
n   to make   good'impression on it. I could just love anyt in y
call woman; "nd-I wanted to tell the dear little creature so, u I
did 'teknow exactly ho* to say it. Somehow dr another women have
a p werful effect on a man's ideas. I can talk to a ian ill dy abou
an~ bin, and ever get out of talking materials; but when I get 'do-
si  of a prett gal, and my heart begins to feel w*rm  and miy face
be   s to flush up, I gits a levtle nervous, and the ideas just lip out
of  y head lik gas out of a bottle;'and there I sit tryin think and
can think.  More little foolish thoughts and children's notions will
Ioom  into a fe low's head at such times, than at all other ti ies put
toge her. When Iam by myself, T can fix up a first rate speech to
mak to a swe theart; but that moment I gits where she is, it all
slips out in spi  of me.. It is just so now. When I first git - my
mon y I thought I could talk to any gal, and not be seared a bit,
but hen I so down by the blessed little thing, my mind was as
blan as your h uid in leas than a minute.
I  t there a tryin to think all over creation to get an ides, but it
want no go. S ys she, "How do you like pleasure rides ?"  Capi.
tal,. ys I. Wat is.the reason, thinks I, I couldn't scratch up that
idea. But it t' as as bad as ever, for I couldn't make another start;-
and,( I; e ides,I d dn't see exactly how to get to the point I wanted
Thi      I, I'll j st screw my courage up, and pop it right out'; so,
says    Miss, hbw do you like a single life?  My question sorter
stunip  her, an  it took her a little while, to get composed enough
to giv  me an a swer. But she soon got calm; and says she, -A
single ife is all can speak of from experience, and, of course. I
can s  I have li ed-it well enough to continue single up to the pres-
ent ti e."  Thi ks I to myself, that's what I call a dare, and I'm a
great  ind to take it if I knowed how. I didn't exactly know how
to k   up the s bject, so as not to lose the point. But she seemed
like A  was willin, and I knowed I was, and I knowed two willhia
minds   ever minds about form, and so.I was determined to pushthe
subject without f rmality. Says I, Miss, don't you want sometimes
to che  e your si uatio in life ?  Says she, "I do not know that I
do, I   very well satisfid with my present occupation."  Thinks I.

I


MI 'Fi.RT TRIP ' T) NEW O0J{LEI/N.

your present occupation--what is your occupation
whether to ask her or not. But itminder set me b
stopped the warmin about by heart me just stopping
kettle by pourin in cold water. Says I, Miss,1.f it
would be pleased to know your occupation. "C
chambermaid to Miss Julia Dean, the great actress
hand in too with a broken-tooth-cross-cut-saw, and
the alligators ! here I am, before a car full of folks,
bermaid. Augur-hole and gintet-borins! give me
to creep into---I never was tuck down so in all nm
never had enough love left to stick on the point of
dIe.. I just eased myself up from along side of h
the car door as soon as possible. I felt just like I
The car arrived at the station and I slided out.
train to get back to New Orleans. The scrape 1~
my love for chambermaids at least. I slept pretty
for my mind want much disturbed about the gals.
Next mornin I. thought I would go to the p
there might be another gal who had lost her money
in, in givin me a new suit of clothes and a cup.
and sure enough there' was a nice little letter. TI
folks there, I thought I'd better not open it, as
might get my money. So I just crammed it into n3
and went on my way rejoicin, for I was almost ec
money in it. I got to my room and shut the door,
the rockin.chair, and opened my letter. Tarnatic
Well, what in the world can the letter be about?
"N E OUJOANS.,
AMI., SAM SIMPLE       -
D)ear Old Friend:--I hav
today's paper, of your arrival in New.Orleans, and
-Dstance. I was decoyed from my father's house by
and of influence in this city, with the assurance ti
live in the most magnificent style and enjoy all ti
eastern princess. I am sorry to say, that,dazzledi
plendors of a city life, and deceived by the mild b

I didn't know
ick, and it sorter.
the bilin in a tea-
be no offense, I
rtainly, sir, I am
Saw me right
give my bones to
courtin a chain-
some small place
y born days. I
a fine sewin-nee-
r, and got out of
wanted fresh air.
I took the first
orter cooled down
undly that night,
st office again, as
and couldn't join
So away I went,
ere was so many
some pickpocket
y britches pocket,
ertain there was
and sot down in
n! nary cent !--
I'll see--
Washington St.
e just learned, by
embrace the first
a man of wealth
at I should here
e pleasures of an
with the gorgeous
ndishments ofan

at
a r
air,
the
tian
ihg
sed
hav
:ette
of h
4c
toit
:a
I]
not
aged
in t
troul
I sig
I 1la.
fail.

omplished
beloved I
val here I
hope of a
to my ro
correspond
.one line
residence
this mon
r to the o
im who
. I impl
a destinati
was in sc
ive my n
.d, pny pur
miserabl
nations of e
parents,'
C 4ame o
le.  Call
. e ce]
e 0lven h

BY SAM SIMPLE. 69
villian, I yielded to his suggestions, and left my aged
arents, without their knowledge or consent. Since my
have been treated in the most brutal manner, without
mending m condition. I have been' confined all the
m, withou permission of walking the streets, or of hold-
ence with any one. I never have been permitted to
o my bereaved parents, to inform then of my place of
and to implore their pardon for my undutifulness. I
ing hired a street boy, from my window, to carry this
ice; and I tremble for fear of its falling into the hands
atches all my movements with the most sleepless vigi-
ore heaven to favor me, and bare safely this message
on.
hool with you, and am well known to you, but I dare
me; for should this letter miscarry, with my name 'at
ishment would be increased, and my life be rendered.
e. I implore you, by all that is humane, and by the
any friendship and association, by the respect due my
y the love you bare for women wronged and abused,
E heaven, I implore you to aid me in this, my day of
at No. '79, Washington street, and call for the name
tain to inquire softly of the Clerk with spectacles, as
im my card. Call this morning at , o'clock ; do not
Yours, intears,
ZENOMIA.


MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEA S..

(fq  APTER IX.
As- soon as I read the letter I felt just like tightin. It warmed:
me all over, and I was a great mind to go right-dow  to 79, and give
himt a good sound drubbing. I am a woman's man, chambermaid,
excepted, and I aint gwine to suffer the charmin creatures to be im-
posed upon by a goon} for nothin, low-life villian.  I couldn't help
rollin up my sleeves and poppin my list two or thr e times, to cool,
down my passion for fghtin. I knowed there war t nobody in the
room to fight, but yet I. couldn't help goin through the motion. I
walked around the room two or three times, gittin n adder and mad..
der every step f maid.  An old schoolmate imposed upon by a man
.-if I just kuowed wnd hc was, that would soon fix he latter with
me.   I cant think who it can be, unless it can be .?eg  Miller.-..
And if I knowed it. washer, I'd swim through a  hole mill pond
full of rusty headed nocasins, and fight on other sidM, a troop of
tomahawk Injuns and alligators, what I'd rescue h r frjn her mis...
ery and distress. Peggy! if I didn't die the death f a 4oldeir, and
spill the last drop of blod that warms this system o min , what I'd
give her relief.  I Tas  t o love her with all my heart, mind and

i

i

,trn t
'k) C or
give  e
tio   r.
sav n 5
I'd r
and
if n
.be  o
out a
non'
life, a
scrap
tell n
tfelldw
wit1
No, 'i
my
here's
ahin
like al
think
79 toll
S
spy A L
Of tl e
ber ai
blin we
er up i
com e1
in bi
the fig,
dows.
,r tog
Pirst ,h

t r1
i
4U
di
is
1J
5
7
0
I
I
}

Li
e
cd
5

h4
yd
u
A

t
It
1
1

MY SAM SIMPLE.                      -al
! 1 always was certain, every day, when I went to school,
Pegg some apples, or peaches, or chestnuts, or potatoes;
!er sall forget them: lotin eyes, when she'd take what I
The good feeling it sent all over me is passin all descrip-
it ne er. entered into the mind of any man to conceive,
as ve given pretty gals a token of friendship and l ve.
give Peggy an apple, thancarry a load of cotton to market,
e shiny gold and silver to put in My own -pocket. And
ut knowed it was Peggy writin this letter, there wouldn't
for elay. Why didn't.she sign 'Peggy instead of this
sort f a name ?  I 'never did know anybody named Ze-
ut I e pect this is a name for anybody living a miserable
o she signed her name in thisjway, -I've got into so many
I ve made up my mind to think before I act, for there is no
man   traps these New Orleans folk, can set to catch a
his may be that chambermaid t ryin to get another chat
,nd I ust know if itis, I aint in trumpet hearin of her.-.
i t L  :he'll never get another chance to pull the wool over
a d ge rue head over heels in love before I know it. - And
- I've, no use for these nines. Every time Iv'e had any-
d with these nines, I've got tuck in; and I've had to screw
the nati n to get out. I aint got much confidence in any-
a comes from these nines. I aint goin to run headlong into
s rter Iok around and see the signs of the times.
kh ught 'd just walk around by No.- 79 and see if I could
;al who wrote me a note. May be sl" would be lookin out
a ow, ad I could see whether it was Peggy, or the eham-
to Miss Julia Dean.. So I cnts out to take -a sort of a ram-
Skeepin one eye low down to read the numbers, and toth-
tI e window to spy a gal. I got on Wash ngton street and
ed to-r ad the signs and numbers., Pres ntly, I spied 79
uwes.  'rackey ! how it made me jump when my eye lit on
e . I just stopped a minute and looked right at the win-
c uldn't see nobody iii the *indows. I didn't know wheth-
a or no. I went to the store door and looked in, iind the
g  saw vas the little spectacle mran, aflyin around the coun-


43  IX 1YfjIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS.

-ter, like hat in a sho el. I felt'sorter scared, and to save my life I
couldn't go in-I thought I'd better wait; and I knowed it was
more than nine o'clock, and I didn'ttknow whether it would be right
to go in after nine o'clock, or no. I thought may be she appointed
nine o'clock because ghat brute of her's would then be out on busi-
ness; and for all I kn w, he's done come back, and if I go in there,
and he's present, the ery wild fire will be to pay. So I just turned
amfund and left. I walked about without carin much where I went
About twelve o'clock . got around to the post office, and in I stepped.;.
and sung . out Sam Siple. The postmaster handed me another let-
ter, for all the world just like the one I got in the mornin. Some-
thin's turned up, now, says I; the old villian has come home, I ex
pect, and she's sent me a hasty notice to not come. It's well I didn't
go in when I was around there. If I had, I'd cotched it, certain as.
snakes. Sam ain't to be tuck in every day. I'm goin to keep my
eyes open while I'm in this city. I'll see through what the gal says,
though I alniost know without openin the letter--
"No. 79, WASINTPON , Sv.
"MnR. SA M Sam :
S'r
-I am deeply mortified to know that
you have treated my'-note of this morning with such perfect indif-
ference. There was a day when you professed to 'love me, and you
swore to me more than once, and called heaven to witness the so-
lemnity and sincerity of your oath; that there was no other being tit
whom you had given your heart; and that to your latest hour you
would cherish for me an undying affection. But, alas ! for the plight-
ed love of youthful years, as it is the morning cloud and early dews,
which soon pass away. Your vows were all writtenin sand, whichthe
slightest breath of time has completely effaced. I have 'appealed to,
you to assist me in my istress, and you have entirely disregarded all
the claims I have upon your sympathies and aid. You manifest no
concern for a helpless roman, when she is in sorrow and misery, and
implores youto relieve her from degradation and tyranny.
I appeal to you again, if you have a spark of love for woman, to
aid me in this my deepest trouble. The wretch who treat) me go in.

hur
to
3o
tha
to c
tiot
kn
I'm
in
loo
saw
the
wer
as
in,
was
sig
bef(
and
lett
mat
in a
kn
go
the'
cle;
bac
co,
buf
to]
He

an
ak
plot
ed.

hat'
wr
nsi
wi
rth
goi
in
tw
t,
ary
ny
rea
t of
re
jus
rs
er
1 s
b
ac
cc
. al
to
d
im.
pul

ly, ha
mye
k, as
'With
s Pe'
der ti
thout
at I
Srigh
.nt.
roun(
o me
ould
lkin
feelit
oom,
in ti
differ
1he fai
let t
from
that
rts of
t it
- tor
uld n
my
No.
py tl
ever.
Say
led twi

02

JIX MAM SIMIkLE.
left honme, to be gone se- eral days, and now is the time
scape. If you intend to assist me call this evening by
I directed in my first letter, which I presume you re-
a trebiWng hand; I remain,
Truly Yours,
"ZEN OMIA."
gy, as certain as gun's iron, and I'll take her away from
r die in the attempt. There aint no use for takin time
e matter. If it is Peggy, that will be enough for ac-
considerin the consequences one minute. And I just
ever told any other gal that I loved her, but Peggy.
, down there immediately. So down I wentt7o 79, and
[didn't see the spectacle man, and so I stood about,
,thinkin probably I might pick up a dot or two. I
behind the counter mighty'Tbusy talkin, and one of
ast sheep eyes at nie. I couldn't help thinkin they
bout me, and for my life I couldn't prevent a sort of
from creepin over me. I want half as brave as I was
and I didn't feel half as willin to die as I did when I
e letter all to myself. I'd found out that there was a
ence between being spunky in my room and bein brave
e of man. I felt almost like backin out of the scrape,.
e gal write on, for she didn't know whether I got the
er or not. There might be some taken-in about this
couldn't see, and the first thing I knowed, I might be
a fix. I had some money in my pocket, and 'I didn't
ight be some trick to get it; and so I thought I would
y room and put it away, and if I did get into a' scrape
t get it. So I went back to the hotel and give' the
oney b t about one dollar and a half. ,I now  out.
9. I stod around the door a little while to s~eeif I
e spectacle man--there he was behin the counter, as
I stepped in and" picked a chance to whisper a word
s I, in aw low whisper, "Mr." do you know Zenomia?-
r or three cards. out of his pocket and looked at tlwxe:


ti4

MY FiRs'T TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS.

like he was near sighted. "Yes, sir," says he; "you will go up these
steps, and along the passage until you come to No.19. You will find
her in No. 19."  Wake snakes' come to taw! I dont like so many
nines. The house is 79 and the room 19. No good thing will ever
- come out of so many niues. But as I've got this far I wont turn
back now, let the result be as it may.
I went along up the steps and down the passage to No. 19. 1
didn't know whether to knock'or not. Somehow, or-other my brav-
ery begun to get out of ane faster than electricity out of the clouds.
In a little while I knowed I wouldn't have a sparkleft. I raised
up m hand and sorter knocked the door. Oh l you everlasting
sw anp chills ! how they di4 run over me when I heard somebody
movin their chair and ulaki for the door. I felt just like runnin,
an d if somebody had just said boo, I wouldn't pade more than two
or three leaps for the steps. The door swung open and a pretty gal,
with the sweetest sort of a smile, said, "Walk in Mr. Simple ;  and
she gathered my hand, addk give it such a squeeze as made my very
heart flitter. 1 walked in and shut. the door. I took a .seat; but
somehow I felt mighty comical. I'll jst go    y buttons ! if 1
ever went to school with that gal.  I didn't see no favor of anybody
that ever did live in the nountaius.. That, gal never come from Al-
abama.   1 was lookin right at her when she says, "Why, Sam, you
dont know e, do you ?"  Says I, I cant exactly call yeu to mind-
what's your name?  Says she, "I wonder if I'll have to tell you my
name. Look good and seg ifyou can make me out-"   I took a good
took at her face. stand up says 1, and let me see how tall you are
-she stood up---but, say I, you aint high enough for Peggy Mil-
ler, and you are too tall for Judy Sims, and not fat enough for Polly
Ross, and your nose aint ,rooked enough for Molly Holt, and your
foot aiutbig enough for Betty Stiles, and wh o in the deuce are you ?-~-
hetume seeyour hand-it wont do, for Kizzy King, for she had a great
big wart on her hand, and there paint no wart here; and youaint Dol-
ly Cross, for she sorter talked through her nose,.and had a kind of a
squint about' her eyes.,. and I just know you aint Nancy Culpepper,
for her head was as rid. as a live coal, and she was asfreckled as a
turkey egg. just I be hange if I believe you ever saw me before,

ad I jug: kio  I aint never been acquainzted 'with you, for I dont
forget gal' so e:Ayas not to recollect one bit of their faces in two or
three cars.
"J   t l:ke-yo , Sam," says she, "you always would play off your
nonse e   i h tie girls, and that's the very reason you used to be so
popul - an ng 11of theru. We all had .gou for a sweet-heart, and
someti es alamos fought about you. I thought there never was such
:r boy  f" any am Simple ; and now, just to tease me, you pretend
you e mect reconize me; you make me believe you dont recollect
this a  l imole  n my cheek. You never would kiss me -oh that
side of he ace ! and you dont know my name? rBe ashamed, to say
I too - a good ook at the mole onlher fiae-.but I couldn't call it to
mind.   know I   ed to be the very plague to kiss the girls-this was
about h dlf iy liv n-but this not kissing on the mole side was some-
thin I ouldnt re ollect, for I knowed I want particular about moles
when I pas right after a kiss. Ilkissed mole faces, freckled faces,
un bu  t fa ces, u ly faces and pretty faces, and any kind of a face,
eo it wa, a al fac . 'But then she could call me Sara so flat, just like
.he kno ed me a1 her life; but somehow  there seemed to be some-
hn abo it hler I c uldnt understand: she was mighty particular in
her con orsa ion. So I thought Pd tree her at once :-Says I, who
lives ilea est ieigh or, to dad?. Says sre, ini a minute, "Why, old
Bob All ."    By ,ounds ! says I, that's a fait, and you couldnt have
known t. at  itho t knowin something about that country. You
must hav, be ,n ab out there. but I cant makeiyou out, no way that 1
1an fix it
Says a e, ' Enou wh of your foolishness, Sai; 4i want to talk to you
ou differe t n atter . I am in the most miserable-situation here, and
I have be n t yin  r!a long while to get away. A few  of my old
friends an a quai nees have occasionally visited the city, but they
remain so sho t a i e that I could never have time and opportunity
to hold w h t em    y communication relative"to my whereabouts or
miserable on ition. .-have been-here now nearly two years under
the most ret hed t eatment ever  erdured'by 'any helpless female.-
t dare not elate to., on the one half of what has befallen me since

I


hiti                   J' 1"E   r:::  LUP  'rTo N'\ \\(/u i    .:N" "

my arrival in thi city.  ie who swore' that he  uld 1'    a
h is been my imt uunc  ifl aindl most unrele    gtrmi
wubjeets me to the most rigid ru'Oles, and denies me all the  hrm lees
0om   n to the femlide sIx. T am notopermitted to seC any one lInoI
Shis express )eraission(, and never can  pen one l ne, to any one.
hut it must undergo the stjrictest scrutiny ; no one is permitted to
hand me a note or letter until he has carefully perused i-he is
egnly vigilant in watching my every movement. ie jfreqIueIItly
eve-dropAly yoom1 to listen to my conversation witlh the servant
and to discover. if possible, some indications in me of disaffection to-
wards him. so that, with somc' show of justice, he may have cause to
treat me most inhunumanly and cruelly, lie frequently charges me
with the-most revolting1 me, and in the most terrible' language.
threatens me with the severest punishmieiit. i1 have labored to the
utmost of iy ingenuity to please hin, and I find all my efforts to be
in vain.  1 have tried to be prudent in word and act, and to obey to
to the last jot and title, every order he gave me, however unreaso.
able and unjust. But my guarded walk and conversation are but:
additional causes or arousing his fiercest wrath : and my unprotect-
ed head has fallen undr not only his foulest abuses but his most un-
mercifil blows. -Otfte have I been tied all night to appease his un-
bridled wrath, whilst he flirted at the theatre, or spent his time and
money at the gambling table.  More than once has he decked me
with chains, and fastened my limbs and body in the most uneasy po-)
sition, and there left me in the greatest agony for hours.
"I dare not proceed further in recounting the miseries through
which I have passed. A decent respect to your finer feelings would
induce me to desist from the relation of scenes that would chill thm
blood and make the heart stand still.
'4 wish to make m  escape, though I should not disguse the fact
to you, that it cannot be accomplished without some danger to na
both. This brute of a man, who passes for my husband, though such .
he is not, is now absent front the city ; but he has left the most un-
principled scoundrel as his sentinel.  How  to escape, without hi
knowledge, is a problem of noeasy solution. But life to me is, here,
a burden, and I am willin to stake present existence for a change.

u4
= r
r
f7
;f
.1
fr
it
r.
'S
F
t
.
2.

ti()

itU
f+t'
fUd
F i:;J

tOW' xx1et ,i ya tleWdj1  r ti a-:  e;aiL~ ti
hryou ha
lliry ?01  O; -e to face  ager  and d
ee   b Oie fltd'i mise-ry
roablt. Iasub ectusb oth to disZ'aee alnd the mot
iden  b am prepared for  he l ors at   ' a  .
S11t  b  tfe  mot  ie irimstanees, but you
ated by  difon . meo ie. -   y Jot  uak  the ven.
ae 'eil what you m-e

ill
1
IC
'till
t 11
f".
if I
(1O~

ba .[ kimwedh1 41 ilt he. ji;L i -  xi't afaide5
lowfou  this kind of elinld: t  ..,. ..
d e o brave as   igiit b.  She s
id of 'j1rit her.  and I ju 4 believe ( h w
a  T ihe  would  be  o  mettun  her  b I ny.  'T
tho~   I 'happe m to  get  hi little  sea ed  xx  e u dau be1   ,i
it x-o'ild make hash of the whole plot. i     b     r
oh IwN 'iiia-t'0nia iin her situation, if there wi  i
her   ay    o I thought I would
itoai toay sopositively, foi' iar   mightntbh d
too it no' useto give her a h:] ,and half
40   e positie a woman for that.  It 4a ti,
II heirein NexIV Oeans, a long ways from hom
It was a ticklish sort of bnsness.

I t) k,
sure
I  ai
; et.


UH{APTFIR K
- te i  ata nn will do till he's tried. , If Id bee.{
e ome   d seen one of ha 1 ome gals in trouble, '  jest waded
homedanden boeo nwhat I'd got her out of the scrape ; but 1 was wa;
huae=eepin blood wa     go    tanih folks and it wais right
down hers among strangers and outlandish ok,an    itwsrgh
don tr mog a difficult     The worst of all was I didnt exactly
known t ho  ga.  I  couldn't  m ake  her  out  no  way  I  could  study, but.
k nowth egal.  Ih talked  so  known  that I  couldn't  help  hinkin  sh ,
e   et helen s so eet l bout m e  and  I  had  forgotten  her.  B ut  even'
uist know soethaaabout      rea .why I shouldit help her.
'if I didn't know her, that want no r ongia blew up, and they paid me lik'
cer fellw , and if I'd help this gal, mabe she would help me
evifc when I might be in trouble. Blessings conferred on others
oe ike   hen s,  t h   bwill n  tlw y co ie.  hom e  to  roost.  So  I  just
are like pigeoy wte  ; an ss I to-well I'll just call he-r
ad etup my mind at once ;a  sy  )am     Ii s. I dont k-now how
/JeuoMIo for I dont know any other j -11-10_.. 1dn ko    o
Sne,nmaiy turn ou       anybut Ivemade up my mind, that, sink or swim,
d                o  I'ie, survive r perish , m pin  r the whole hog. and

j
I:
A

,
3Y
;
-.i
7
2
Sk
:)
0

BY SAM 8MLE

I'
w
Ia
Je
so
the
0
.'I'II"
but
her
blo
ha
nd
pen
tual
ello
xpl
mt
bo
rae
lo
at
en
s a
eou
Lbou

n gwine to get ,ou out ofthis scrape or break .  ac. Thtt' jus
hat Sam made up his mind to do. I ha(dam, more than got out the
t word whvfernshe just stretched her arm s raight over her hea
d said she, "Thank heavens ! PIl be sa;feat Iast "' She jumped
lht up and run right up and gathered tae around the neck. Oh,
icho ! a gal with her aris around my neck ! A streak ofghta-
sweetened with lasses, run all through me. It want none of your
utiii kind of feelins. It was a long sight hitter than that.
at feel like hollowin notinakin a bit of noise. I was calmly r
un my.Ief in the arms (f my love, and I just sot still and too
huggui) nfist like one who love's it. I felt just like slippin my
s around her sweet little waist, and giviin her one good squeezing
I thought it was good enough as it was and I wouldn't interrup
I begun to feel like I was getting into that country what the
ents used to talk about. .1 thought I coulid feel the balmy, a i
'in softly from .ly iai fields; when, about this time, I hear
body come walking down the passage. Thunderclaps ! how ?.
.d us both ! She let iego like a hot pice of iron. Every ha
d on me stood straight out. The hour of trouble had cone, and
cry was gettin out of mep in a minute. What shall I do:? sayr
Runti under the bed," says she. There was no time for waiti.
under I went. I didnt have tihie to fiu before I heard the doo
My Zenomia met him and called him -i  sBAN,! Eart--
es and powder ills ! They've scotched the snake noV. Th.
will find ine under this bed and blow me through before I eau
in the latter. Poor Saml is gone this time : I've got out o1
right tight places, but there ant no gettin out of this sciape.-
it this time he got up out of his chair and asked for his boots
-Cy ! there were the boots right before mnce, and he'd be certain
k under the bed. Oh I how it gives me the shivers ! If he'd
eeped l is eyes under the foot curtains I'd been transmografied
ock in a m uinte. I could hear him "onmin towards tihe bed, and
I saw his feet. Oh !death and evil spirits get hold on me! I
great miud to run right out as hard as I could go, but was afra1,
Idnt get out of the door before he'd shoot me in the back.-
t his time a head popped under the bed-I felt he lock-ja

_


74,            MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS'
comninn a minute-my back got stifftas stilliards--J was about
give up the ghost when I seed Zenomia- she sorter smiled, but I
couldnt return it-it was no laughin matter-with  me--she got th;
booth just in time, for I think he ,was just about to look under th'
bed. "You are very kind," say; he. "Not at all," says she.-
Thinks I to myself, I can return my thanks from the bottom  of moy
heart fir your kindness that time. I didntrget more than half fixed
when I run under the bed, for I lidnt have time. I ot, dow n orte
on my knees and elbows, and was gettin mighty tired/I was afraid
I night make some noise if I moved, and then he'd be certam to get
me-I thought I'd hold on a little longer, and maybe he'd go out
after a while. Says he, "Who's been here since I've, been gone ?
"Oh !' yes," says she, "the doctor's been in." "And what did h".
want?"   "Ie brought your account and said   he  nust have the
money."   "Where is the account ? let me see it."  Mercy on rPe.
thinks I, have I gdt to stay in this fix until he discusses that bill ofl
the doctor's?  She got the bill and give it to him. "What !" say
he, "one hundred dollars ? he'd better take all that I've got, and b
done with'it. What's all this charged here? mileage, visit and pie -
scription-ahd here's medicines besides. Who does he suppose will
pay him forhis visits ?  That's perfect imposition, and I'll  htBimn
.   at once. Don't you never send for Dr. Jackson  again.   'Who
must I send for ?".says 4he. "Well send for Di . Jones."  Says she.
°I think Dr' Jones will be likely to charge some higher, for he's
Professor." ' "Well, this fellow shant have it ;-I've made him what
he is, and now he charges mc such a 'bill as this! He came here a
poor as Job's turkey, and I got him a boarding house, and .recom-
nndd him to the citizens, and now, when he gets a little money in
his pocket, he charges me a hundred dollars. This is his gratitude
for all mykindness to hin. He ought to have done my practice for
nothing, and been glace to 'get the chance.  Well, I'll show him the
strength of influence. .T''ll stop his business operations. and teach
hift his'dependence."
Thinks I to myself, this uma's friendship paint worth huvin, and
the poor doctor will do well to get rid of him. I dont want no man
to be my friend if I've got to buy his friendship by laboria for hine

be(
nta
is i
bot
say
ine
cot
'emlt
he]
ton
exta
tea
and
The
him
wt
regt
and
her
prec
but

0 y
ius
y as
rd
hat
an

sk
itt
t p
he
It,
tt
.ki
of
hey
ier
ect
c the
en
We
d
of
Ibri
fm k
lit
not
ute
ed,
elf.
Lim
it

BY SAM SIMPLE.                         71
hole yer rfor nothin.  I've got no usef or anybody who, just
he's FrI, wants  o    1poor folks to wqrk without pay; because
e big fc!ks everylay mustwork for' then  or nothin- -it
me fiery to think of it. I was speculation in this ivay when 1
somebody kn'oek at the door.  "Wolk in," says'the man. Who
thinks I; and   lats to pay now ? Sotic'bran new fuss, I'll
1 ten tone if I dont get the be efit of it.'  "Take a seat,"
n1omia, Is sweet as ever. :The new visitor soon made his bus-
town. 'Ie was a teacher, and had comAto present his ac-
rr the tuition of this man's niece. The old cooi wasnt in the
ight to receive another duit. iHe was mad with the doctor,
must'tako his spite out:of the teacher. Hle undon  'tihe ac
nd ripped out a unaccountable oath as he . looked att the
It almost give me the shivers.  Mercy on ine! thinks I.
ll the teacher.  "What's this ?" 'says he to the teacher in a
the fiercest wrath. -"What use had she with that? "a useless
nance; and f have a great minid' not to -pay for 'its The
tried to explain the matter-"Yes, you teachers always have
Mouth to get money after you have charged 'for everything
possibly cram into 'your line of business. I'll' pay you, sir,
a I'll'"quit you-and dent you never say' school to me again.'
eher again tried to sio\v him that his bill was}all right and
charged bt what had been etteni by the niece; but it made
se thai eVer-he fliew cle i off'tho' handle and emirsed ,the
shoof, and told the teacher that'he wished him  hereafter to
iimself a, a strwatger. 'The poor usedd teacher got his little
noney and left. 'The old villian now 'got tip and; walked'the
id cursed teacher ,arid schools, Aid cduation inceo'ry shape
a. It mad'emy bleodYfel 'cold to sit there' on my hunkers
u to his'doubleana: twisted oaths. 'enomia neit opened
th. Sie kidwed the cdoudwas heawily charged; and if she
d a point, she'd be certain to catch the 'eletricity. lHe
and biled over, ind stamped, and ripped and swore all to
It was 'a one sided game. Nobody want takin « hand in it
self. [I4as there under the bed, so tired lyin in one position,
looked like to me.n iy bones would conmc through my skin. I


72

.Y PIRS'T TRIP TO NEW ORILEANTS,

wanted t move but I knowed if I.did, and he should hear me, and'
find me, that would be the end of Sarn..
About this time Ifult a sneeze a comin-what in the wodd shall,
1. do ?, .It will never do to sneeze here. What ! sneeze under tho
bed and he find me,?  He'll kill me' without hesitating. The sneeze
is eomin-what shall I do ? And there's no way to keep off a sneeze-
I'm afreaid to put my hand on my nose.--I'm afraid to move.-I cant.
breathe good-if I do it will sneeze in spite of all Creation. Hold on
breath, the sneeze is coin.-Oh! bless me ! what will become of
me. Sam's goneAf the sneeze comes! Here it comes-hold, breath
its comin-s-k-e-e4-c-h-ho' All's over-I'm  gone now. "Who
was that sneezed ?" -"It was me," said Zenomia.' ":You sneezed?
It didntsound like you."  "Why, husband, certainly it was me.''--
I dont believe it ; you' have somebody in here."  "Myp dear, dent
think of such a thing. You can search the room and1,satisfy~your-
self; you. willsee that Lam,perfectly inaoeent."  Blue.blazea and
locofoco matches !. dont go to searching the room. What is the woman
thinkin about when.she told him to search t ie room.  Has she for-
gotten me, or is;she going, to betray me ? o; ishe trying to brave.and.
bluff him off from suspicion by akin out lik she is 'so confident of
innocence that she'll show dependence ?
le commenced comintowards the bed-I could feel the hairs on
my head a risin-I jnst; quit breathen, and the cold sweat -poured
out like .old-death had hisgrapples on me, I felt just like my time
was come, and I knwed I-want ready to go. le stopped at the foot :
of the bed, and I was expecting every moment to see his eyes; but
Zenomia kept talkip' and boastin of her innocence, and tellin him to
look, until he went to the fire 'agd took a sect. There is no tolhin
how glad I did feel when I heard him take a seat, but I never would
have thought of that way to keepim from lokin. But she under-
stood. herisiness andkwed exactly how t pul tihe wool over his
eyes. It learnt :te' a lessontwo tforgetin  nydys      purity
of heart and motives ient cozisi4ingonka~ad 'boasting sayings.-
--Everybody aint inocent that professes a willingness to be tested.-
This is what I call dressin a wolf up in lamb's clothing , and sometimes.;
it pays for the present..like allthe nation. The old fellow,,had let, off'.

his
min
I hi
kn
.knc
he'
hiun
their
the
feel
rn
his
yon-
says
Imi
You
I'll I
Buf,,
"No-
self-
iia,
him
sir, I
bette:
letter
was p
would
I list
movir
hit th
leave.
out, ji
I'm g

BY SAM SIMPLE.:

78. 1

hty
wec
y b
kv I
off
'3 W
ied.
Ai st
yo
ler
st
no
o -l
[, li
st C
nut
says
nat
he
'Il
efo
n r
be
an
we
at
ied
noh
ofk
31I.
I
:e a
rin

n, and had somewhat cooled down; but, nevertheless, I was
tired of his company ; I had been in one position so long till
ot the treibles, and I couldnt hold, myself still, though I
my lifE 'as at stake. And, what was worse than all, I didnt
w soon I might want to sneeze again, and if I did sneeze,
ow the4 it want her. There would be no use to try to bluff
then. lie was there settin -up right alongside of her, and.
uldut be no wiy to fool him. He'd just know I. was under
and he'd come right after me. I/almost imagined T could,
eeze coniin, while I was thinkin about it!
" says Z nomia, "[ forgot to tell y o4 that Willian got a letter
ir agent in New York."  What did he say ?"  Says Zno-
C, and he will be certain. to see you if you go doon. ;.You
where you are."  What, says I, sta"y here to Sneeze?' "You
t sneeze: I'll fix that. I'll put a bed quilt under there for
o on, an d then the dust will not cause you to sneeze." -But
e may hook under"the bed for soinethin, then helI sede-
ome out from, here. "Never mind," says she, "I'll f. that.
t stay under the bed. l-Do as I tell yo" and ulwill he right
large trunk under the bed, andlybu can get behinrdt d
I he'll be certain to want son thijn in that, very trwxk.-
ter if.he does-; I'll bequick eno gh for hitn, and get, my-
likes to be waited:upon. -I know exactly how to.'"zianage
idat read the letter ; you had,,btter go down stairs and see
e he goes to supper."  Ah.!. thinks I,' th4t's the- pla. Yes.
eight in for yon goin anyiher ; and, then I'd feel like I'd
a goin a little mielf. -Come, old. hose, g&amp; down and see the
I give a fellow a chance t get 'out of a tights place  He
!ful slow makin up hisit d, and I begin to get afraid he
o at all. But after a while he got his hat and;out h ent.
to every step he made, closer than: a hunter doe" to the
squinrel in hickory nut time.  I heard every tin4e his foot,
or, till'  Struck the steps. "Nowthinks.I, is the tin to
just rai ed up the foot-curtains a little and poked msy head
rat slippin from his hole. Sys I to Zenomia, look here
to-leave here. "No,"says she, "yeu, cant. leave. There


74             MY FIRST TPIP TO NEW ORLEANS,
is no way.,or you to get out.  Je has only gone down stairs to sLe
him.". She gathered her trunk and bed quilt, and fixed them to her
notion, and told me to gdt a position behind the trunk to suitimyself.
Says she, "you must remain where you are. You have promised to-
deliver me from this nan, and there must be no backing out. It
will soon be night, and perhaps he will go -to the theatre, or some-
where else on a spree, ahd then we can leave, and take a stcamboa
to-night for some place, it dont matter much where. It is very rare
he stays at home any night, especially if there is anything to do in
the city. To-night Miss Julia Dean pla rs one of her most celebrated
pieces, and I know he wouldn'tt miss scei bg her act for fifty dollar;-.
You need not be alarmed about his finding you, I'll pledge you Iy
word to take care of that matter, so that he will not find you out.  l
is a poor woman that cant deceive her husband. All that is needed
is a smooth tongue and calm countenance, and everything will always
work well. Be brave and firm, and we'll get out of these difficultic
without discovery. . You want nerve for any great undertakig. Ifi
you are a man, play the part of, a man, and dent be so timid.  en
must not be discouraged by small hindrances?'
Small hinderances ? says I; bless me, if you callbsueezin  under
man's bed small hinderances, then I don't much care about getting ac-
,quainted with big ones. I was scared so-bad, I like to got out ofmy
skin. I'tell you What, gal, this here is a. ticklish  place. as: sure a
you are born. You mayn't think so, settin up there by the fire, but
if you'll just take'my location for a while, you'll soon get. tired (r
roostin under the bed.- Sam, dent talk that way. I thought you
were more of a man. I have depended upon you to rescue me
from my fuiserable situation, and you are unworthy the name you
barif you fail to do it. Pluck up court ge and be a ian. A woman
would be ashamed of such cowardice. Trust to me and I vill carry
overything aright. Do as I tell you, without faltering, and every-
thing will be successful.  Remain uncer the bed until he goes out
,to-night-i-r, if he does hot go out, until he goes to sleep, and then
we will leave. lIe always sleeps soundly-a clap of thunder would
scareely arouse him when he is once asleep, and then we will leave.
le never wakes up during the night -he always drink. brandyT

thing Wi
yourself
I hear
-eared.
ne after
strike th
eat tal!k
heahe
they mli
abe thin.
tiei let
not 2'et t7
from a in
Sh ill
Aous,
fro te
body wit
their me
an1d poor
think of
the kind
nit of it t
.a111 jud
says Z
" b)eliew-
Ab)idyout
but I feel
the city
very p.a

Iii?
Intl
h .
ii
lIe
all,
am it
ih
e, -
icr
i11
I' tl
r I
tit
J15 (
am
i su
Is i
Sal
ne.
)f t
yts
in u
r s

M " SA M SIPL.

aIe hi   l     couldaleaetheroom   and carry every-
He and he'd never know it. There. he is coming--fix
lie still.
i comm.inl. and to safe my life I couldnt help felin
long curtain lectures didn't get the right sort of feelin in
and it it did, it soon slipped out. when I heard Uis boots
:z.  [n1 he comes.-I feels sorter chilly.-A man need-
bein brave when he knows he's where he oughtent to
bee bra'le to save his life-it is all sti to think of such
it I'm here and cant get away, and must be governed by
s; but I just know oneThing, if ever I do get out of
New Orcans' gals may- write as much as they please, but
er be fool enough again -to be heipin them  out of their
get in ten times worse himself. If gals will run away
eddies and mammies, then let them take what comes. If
bed of horns let them lie on them. They ought to
parents, as the Bible tells them, and if they wont,
em  put up with the - fare, without grm'iiblin. You'll
hieken into another suck, tryin to get a runaway gal
hu band. She would have him. and now let her keep
tume I heard the dishes rattle.  Yes, here comes some-
1ecr. These folks belong to, the big class-they cat
n their room-sich fine doins-so many good eatables.
i cant get a bit,  There you sit and stuff, and never
who is riskin my life to get you out of trouble. If that's
rodlble you are taikin about. I'm willing to take a small
if about this time. I aint had no dinner to-day.
from ro eent prospocets. I aint g-wine to get ay
mia, "mI dear, are you going to the theatre to-night ?"
," sayslie. Oh ! the Dickens ! thinks I. Says she.
w Miss Julia Dean was to appear to-night ?" Oh, yes,
well. an shall not go out to-night. She will remain in
me tii ,and I can hear her some other time."  The
to pay-you stay at home the very night I want you


NOY I J I T TRIP TO NEW  }JCLEAN C.

I

Y~ SAM  1 S 'I. 'i.

to go. And here Lam to stay uutil yoa go to sleep-and sick-yon
will wake up if a erieket jumps across the fire-place-stay under the
bed and wait for a sick man to go to sleep!' what a horrid wateh for any
man to undertake,
,APTER       XI.
. ahav wxii4s the poorest hand in the world to wait on the sick.
) but now I am pnt under the bed to wait on ' crabby-old-musty-sick-
ellow to go to sleep: This does beat. all Hayti, a gentleman from
the free air of Alabama, to take rootn under a bed; in as big a city as
New O rlean. I. won er what my old inamny would say if he was
to see ,me lodging uad.r the bed, waitin for a sick man t
--Why, aiuunmy what are you doing under there ? be ashamed of
- yourself and comec out you'sorry puppy !"' And' I'd feel just like
yI'd took a sheep-but niammies dont see all their children do, and
I'm tarnation glad of t, for if they did they' have a mighty poor
opinion of some of them.. I felt ubiut this time like turning over on
'tother side. 1'd beei lyin on one side, so long 'd got mighty tired,
-and as thei-e was a quIt under mne, Ithought 1'eould tnrn over with-
out making auy noise. t just eased myself upon mg elbows and then
as easy as possible on ty hands. I then sorter drew one foot up at a
time, 4-o Io [oIk get oin my nces. I kiide spraddled out my knees
to give inc a broader hundation, and begun to turn over jet asslow

0

I


TO       \EV 0  L .  N

78

as a suail erawls.  I was turning uImy back towards the rmnk1 ud the
want exactly room enough between me and the trunk, and I-strnek
the lid, which want quite shut down, and slap it went.  ponmnbahelLs
and death in a minute ! "What was that, Kitty ' was llm } you
who's under the bed Y"  "Why, my dear, your fever mut e imyou.
[ thought you lived in this room long eoLigh to get cc'--tom d t,,
the rats. To hear them, sometimes, you would -hink they weare about
1o move or thingslout of the room." P Dont tell me about rats--
that ws15 no rt. here's somebody i rnder that bed. and IU see."
'T'omahawk injuus ! what are you aboat ?  My lear, it siilI, and I
will show yoi that there is no one un4 or there.' I'll raie cthe eur-
tains for you." .-Yoi do what ?  Wonu' ! what are yot; about
hold up the acirtains fir hinu to see me. If I eoildnt kick you clean
down stairs. Here she conies. Oh  Murrell and Stewauit .rob-
h ers and midnight assassins ! Wht will become, of me ?  (oing o
raise the curtains-a Ibul traitor-and show me to her I husband
and then swear until she's as black us my  hat that sh  didn't
know I was under ,here.   And her tongue is just slick enough
to make him believe every word of it. Ier hands are ou the el-
tains-What are you about ? Don't you know I'mt unde   here ?
you old crazy thing, what are you doing   Up .vent the curtains
blue blazes! "Now look and see who you Can see," says she, "and if
I've told the truth." She took care to raise the curtains at the foot-,
so the trunk just exactly hid-me  She thercame around on the side,
What-wliht-goin to raise it it &amp;n this sde?' fiddlesticks-you old
goose, don't youknow-he-can so me on this side? :Hold, there, till I
draw up in aknot and get up in theo.orner-mind whatr jou are
:about. She just sorter run- herself under the bed and givd(tnc tre.
mendous inh against the trunk, petendin~ to push it ont of the
way, -andrn   '.in .ne right back against o wall like a pad cake,,
then she flfrt bup the certain , "Now io'k,"..says shte,  ind see.
your moan;   ouseedy body under there :  Look good anid dont
be aceousin;me ,'galh ofaving- soniebody. der the bed. Are you
satisfied i?',-\"YVs)  believe I4ant,biIttle  u it didn't sound much
like a rat  I rek riy-head being fevelis imade-it sound louder
to me." -lThink kI ti:iyselfi- Wdk:lf" t som nd louder to yO u- han i

iBY SML SIMPLE,79
lid .)ni. Idont know whether I've got any 1iver or not. and
there aint-roomii enough here between this trunk and the house for a-
oin to1feel of his pulse. I wonder if I'vegot to stay jamed up here
until that old soaker goes to sleep. .1.aiut hardly got room  to get a
good breath: If I swell out lmy chest toQ much, I might, move the:
"ld trunk and something else might fall, and  then there might-be a
closer search. But I see this. gal's'up tothe ' tricks.' She's been
inl many a tigh  place, i know, or she nev    would think of,
-o many -ways to get out. She's a grat .old rascall and I.just;
know it.
About this time Zenomia askedihim if he hadat better lie ,down
and sleep some, as he :might then feel b tter. Y ethi ks4, lie
down old hoss an' take a nap, a seund;iap; a  1dngnap, anyhow, a
nap onug enough or me to get a4y from here. Justgo to sleep if
yon dare,.and I't gone. eertain as sl ootin.: Well, he said, he wo ld
lie down. That' right, ole fel-4the quicker the better, for} Iell
you this is a .ighty tightplace  They commeneea to get ieady f'or
nn to bed. Zenomiasrc ne .to ths bedpattedynd  ade^a heygr of
Iass, and Imoved the oi trunk a little so I could breatheoo&amp; I
bgin to sorter catch her ds., it she 'want satisfied 'tthisshe
pulled the old trunk'out, pretendi toe belookin for hedg wng whei
she knowed she ievr pt heo gown there in her life, rShe soon
shut it down and pushed it iinder4th -bed'}a,_little:.Sheunderstnds
the game. She made .enongc h fi-s with t1I old trnnk ifor na fix
myself first rates G  tohed thinks i I' ready to taka'shorkp
mysel if I was just sonialhiereil  Im i xigghtyp fmi .T will goto
sleep under" he , aid=get to snorin, nd then he'll knowauit=y.rat."
lint it don't make much differencethat gald.° ould iia k hh  b lie e
he heard himself sorg: She an nke h     be ioeranything she
sets her head to, When Igets a wle I aiat;goxn iobe;;aaki her
word for what sh&amp;ssyin, ugpni   to look fe   0jf   If illthe
balance ofth6 Wezneuareketi is gdlibadsdb  knownoig
about their wivesThe y-Canjst ftel tiem all da nagai&amp;to.i.
them mydea; akd loc "as:sweeta'4 #Fdimand oen t s fadigee1 s yI4
know exactly ho t  .  dni      an a kkei       ':_ rW, h   :
iwo they iI rudr idi         a    lgh           ild*.ifk 1  i
0


, u           MY FIRST iTIP TO NEW OR EANS.
ducks. T.her9 aint no tellin how tricky the ful s of this world ar get-
'tin to be.    ctoiadfahr         ewe
Here' he cawes-.he's;  utQbe sure, eno gli. Good grac ous
Ilow, queer it do+ make xnle feel, for a man to b right over, my ead,
with nothin but otnadfahr      ewe us. If he'd just slip.
his hand down, behind the, bea, he'd put, it .right , n me. Ho -eko
it gives, me the chills to thlnk about it. I'd better, sorter in ye a
 little, forf tue old fox might, be goin to bed for this purpose. lie
tur led over' ar d shook the bed like it would fall down. How i did
scare me! Jrt~sttuied over to give his hand a, good reach  own
to f ee l fr me. IP m i, to ge away from this wall, but then I  ust
the mighty particular, for he's" right ,here .at me.o He can almost ear
wenc breath. sorter' elided nmyself on the quilt _to about the middle
of ,the bed. The r ld trunk was, out, of may wa.y, and .I' didnt  ake
{ny noise ,hit it me . Zenouda  was funbhinall about over the r ow.
make u t she Ewa .settin things to rights, but understood her
uiovniQ~* a~ Ift verymuch likea iviu myself. 1"knowe she
wait irenobh  ;to ,go to b d, bttthat Ad ,feo l  t unt ders rnd
thesta- 4and  reon when he .gets up he'll feel; a little -sicker harm
he 490     ' totig  '144005-1 he'll fel, somehart lonesome when he
~w~ke irpat4 ds no fobehere" butliime'elf.  He can then, pace the
~roomi ni curse as iub as hq'pleases. Bless,,:the graciou  t crc
wontinb t a a here thcn, under tlte b- d hiverin all" over for car
he might -spyntee. Go to s l ep, o©ld Gstoiner, anid Sam will take itli
=ta leavim nd t+ eyr better, half along witlihuin. I dont* car so
muneb ;tbt=hey,. for, she's too keen for,--m. She ctn talk all aro nid
t~c~ygu~n  Ijtknow sh&amp;a      nk a  'perfect .fool ,of m .
She'% t. a  t4o*f flks rijEt fesh frpm the mountains." I'M so ter
fri"f b, !There are 'sonme of these tiosI doatt uk at
all' =      AA, A   elol ishe told. me asstory when ahe  signed er-
se1lf e  ii c ~ ' 'h     n - u.,here..an horb dYeahle  erKtt
TkaatX'in er etate  a    ft hr e w hlet a  -if  u bnowedh isni c,
I'      p,,Wsnr ~ htWi$b4Q t. 33u4tldou . care if tdo ~ever k ow
w1&amp;i~ u~u ~ ~tg  : Qofher'e.  e. ;  1goi tld Harryfor
^ :rI; nt tk  .:=lkem to hey mueh, =.rc rii, , I dent like a y-
body thvt is so tricky.

r

.r  r9  d     * "f" ,  , gi :tfl3r  ':
BY SAM SIMPLE.             81'
nh~dor  fo?! zI(   ///,   ge0  ~   aid~~arem
:su pdillhI be«" ill day  u ii  y  art jt  , l~g  to  "i  te
ni  u   hrei   ' t  i  771° Ptj       suc
yock tti ?dyJuIl ukleavewht/ you weprantwtciyo loutk
th cetedfoald li 11i2~  te~bdu~04~su
ilp ,Iaea sgsieof sil0  0i'f~ u nl*hnayoe",
f Itdori" 1 s9'tu 1 1,ho jy r  ~y~e  ~~ beo
jUqit 00 (l' tt Xeoiutliink Ihavk h frral'.
and  ndet  o e bUe   l at c fe  N w  71 ae  en a
toe ell s t'ihere V ~~oe-hsunsih" "'"'
you  ainto gliPe tollsac  i t  d  h . 4  '  jr u'0 V u
okt  endl,'f I'sllkowseave e.m  ato  irice,,as srie  j ut
I  s,   *      ,,, , . ,44*, .  e  lie
herst.   flntIiefol ea 1ey ufi4p nd. or if  te  o rn 1  1o  A~
sn,ore on,4a si~eof thti i~as nO c, yhnoiil Jegnet sce au
ofeaNod  brg.d . ofu  tn' ti ' tiho w iil b  ed  &amp;d'v  ieo
me an(i  }°+ R 7:,   ' tX  ' " 'S oG I   , Fri- TQ 'tY~~  j
"Wh~s' hat?'isIttygwie toslepit


MY FIRST TRIP TQ         Q1
snorin a bit, over on this side. It sounds mighi
-ust listen at her how she blows. Hoop-e-
real horse snorts! How they go0it-cro "C
Kitty! he aint gettin much the advantag of
resh gour.-
but if you are up to serenading me, I can jusi
a liken to it, and you can stop the Kitty part
male music  er on his side the best in ie s
part I W Ant topped. That's it, Kitty, modera
ave all the fun himself. She knows what
wand toLead the way and get the old fellow'
nowed' ed go to sleep. He was watchin be
''bo6 the room, and thought he'd stay awake
was alno go.    usa badadeneednt think they
die maneuvrin oitheir wives. The ca
beore they will be fast asleep. An   t
lse*show to throw the magic over a man to
The justthrow themselves down lik they
t 'e t  edt irsv~e a sorter of a 'sigh, ax
'                          p
*rainbow fuahion, with their knees rway up
on a pileof straw, and anybody would
offra sound nap, and no mistake. Bnt 'it
no i$ea of 'gi' to sleep.  t the  u
an off he' goes. His mind's as calm  as a
geeps, add dreams, pleasant dreams, when
arpund
hat you're dorm there Kitty? what, g
mighty particularabout it. 1hear you gett
There   e comes, sligia down the  as
was 4    to tread on tack. Be mighty pa
to  ik@him .pfoi nothing. Dnt you
pke a noise. Itgives me the fidgets, for'
hk meup.Tre, I hear one oot o
f ak1 5, up.
plans  oye4istent te p     a
&amp; lik i' Wait a minute Kitty-put your
that one keeps too mpch fuss for me. Hold

,jEANS.

y like the ref
hat was one
tsaw businel
yon. Now
tell you I d,
'or me.u I
orjd, but th
te a little an
's, about.
wind easy
when she w
and catch
in stay awak
p their eyes
er charmin
S   him el
are so tired
~d draw the
o their'phin
nk they
3allI ftdge;
und.' thinks'
tub' of wa
his wife's
one to et
" ready to
as if she w'
eful. I wo
make, a' li
[am sore a
thg # ox :;
Dd nJ'be
'foot on an(
on, for

l tuff-
of your
ai Go it,
or it-a

nt' take
ike this
female
I let him
She just
and she
sbrushin
er, but it
a to watch
shut long
creatures
eep sound.
Ind so glad
selves in
like a dog
'ere right
they, aint
all's well,
Cer, and he
,p bruisen
p ? you're
get up.--
s afraid she
ildpt hoe
now and
raid ou'll
I felt ! the
Ily ?ver hear
ther plank,
sake ! ' how

BYSAM' IMPLEI.                       88
the old plank does .creak. --Here omnes tether foot-down it comes.
Hold ! what is the matter with thmfloor,, everyone o  the  lank
are creakin, just because we dont ant any noise. Shes 0'o the bed
now. That's right,.stand right at 11, till you' know he's got over the
effects of the jar of the bed and nos'e of the planks. vWhich way
you gwine there, Kitty ? walk light I tell you. Mind which
you go, for the first thing you kno you'll -run over a chair, and such
another racket we'll have. Gwine to the fire place ? whatyou feelin
here for? gwine to light a match. That'll'never, do in the, world
-.dont you go to Inakin a light here, You'l wake that ol fellow
up certain. Where're you gwiuegwine ou and leave' me here?
What do you want there about the door?  I'  gwine to omoe out
from under here. I aint asleep, blss your sou  I I'll keep up with
your movements. You needent thi k'cau e you can 'fool6your hust
band you can play your tricks on'n e too. Here Ian-foot froms
under the bed-.-a sitting down here, watchin you. What are y
  fumbha after up there in the corner'?  Gwine'I into' a trunk, ha
what, gwine to steal the old fello's money ?  That'll be too bad but.
maybe its some of your own.,;Noeor- mind; go ahe~,w'lne
money, for theClerk's aot m .  awa    d  veryhibg wo
Wen I carryny money, sotnebody is certain to cheat mae out of it .
and when I leave it, then '[ waitit.,And there's  y c  ad o
heaedstikand saddle e bga, and  oney, all inn tbe Hotel6  Theyl
just know who' rna away with th'i gal, and the telegraph will
catch me before '4ay.; Why didnt I bing the tlogs; llongiwith
Hallo, there, gal I what in the nation you letthattrunklidfall for?
bDont move a muscle, nor b'at your ey s. Listen he's turning byer in
bed.  He'll feel' fo- you,"and then the jig will be p' "Don  you
draw a long breath,"Kitty: I believe I'v got. the asthma--I Want
to breathe so bad; I can feel the spa nodies comin: 'Wat aint he
slippin along the bed, too ? He'll -         , rightidown  h
'eo e rrg;htsdown on rtghegd,-
Dont you come down  here: What   re
, . you thinin about, gal?
where're you tommit Be!still, you vrmint.ou ralk as heavy as
a  -        ghtsnore"on,,old cooh---eleepsaiched as a dollar.
Putti onyour coat ! that's right nke haste and get' ready7-..this


:84       MY FIRST D&amp;P:IJo   W ORE
~v~od~i didb ftn )ithj
";~4 od evgtf- 0tn *pir,  ~ ,  0le I
'ty~ hd46 b hl kr' d d ,iI a  ~
{' 4St yyI, be  }4 i  r  J3, for  1  afltt6&amp;t' dt' o
sto e~lk f© I cidAt Thio6';hOI4 tl W  hf~ t4'r'
4   a  ithn  goi  e  siA  t~ .So'1' e  Oi4'Y
a 1iere, i de1mn,, ely '~hr-1 tIfoo,'At"dk)
st  "bier a j£a  g r p xt4  onuhte~~tfr
r1~' aoh~k 94"h~ doo? hheear fie o.
o gldtI~ jhis uitJ  yin  ~kthe1, do otr
BbI c w a willin genou  h ito.ak e  ,the on e   f r d
od~the.od6 ,rJ4as el M id ot W ;'wnP ;oh
.aloei11 4 4o ttaij'6toW
!te4a     4 k Ul " ' ni e ha;"ay  se. ' e h
4 ipiglat Vthe; tor4 ah d 6 4 S'l -,ndrib  h~e

ANS.
i~at icrnytirn
of.r  V 2 '
ought ~ the
K{&amp;t d'1
to
id n t hve n
kerlup be l
Y her avs =
g no~td

" 'could
nib Wow
'lid"fall
eW8  'she
'htd like
'a6 right
"incite."
'as' uf'raid
It ' before
oodr 'Was,
. "f ere
" got up
ound "I'mn
;ht.°j fI'll
~' you
3i'-prse of'
ii4 hand
4 ttldnt
pped, ind
4goii 'out
room"-
c T  an
dryyou
~table "one,
0o'to 'he

doer and open it."  She went into the room, andljsl a  epctd
struck a chair. Blazes and Tomn'Walker! ,just open the- door and
I'll run out or die.. She never moved a  e.  Adter. todi
the dark and looked like I could feel somebody just about topuhi
handon  e. ~arliqukes I earsomebody in the upper room.-
lIe's awake and got up. "Where are you , Kitty* ?"  o   uha
him ; open that door.  "K1itty  yo0u.KittyT !"  H~e's calling 14r.-
Ilre he comes towards the stair btp.Opnt0          orin.
minute-.he's got a, light. Over the chair went . Kitty. " "Who's$
that ?" asked the Clerk; an-d up he ,j umped;" the door flew ,ope
and over chairs and tables I went for the door.  Thpl  a  olw-
ell, and~ the Cler~k hell wecd, aand I done seime tail walkin for the door.

t  '

4f'4it4'''4{{b ;  '  '14 d
-4 A'i .P 144 ' 4 't  n4 p 44 "U  4h
.4  4 ',''1, j4Jdi4  ,  V4~'~.4i  .' '4£ 4 4 4 ' 4'!
's    s  !!444411  $  4 444  ~ ~ 4~  4 44'~44 44

A   4  ''' 'i''"Iff   14    P' r£'~i'~  $
!1v" +  i  ir i41$   % j;T  ^ r b   " fyI1[1   'P l, *" {+Fa , '$  A*
'    ' ~~ 1' pA' 4  ''} ' !1   - 'O'id :e ) ,f'(4"t4' 1.44  ,j
1  fC tf;r  +  '  , ,   rf ' f .  4  1 ''4  ' 4') /$   - 1 " !  "  +b
4} 1/p        r r         #  }  @ tyi'i,  Q,'. r
r   i4$..;  4  4'   44444.4 r 4  " , 4 ~~k 3 ' ''  4444    , '  '4W   '41'   r  4Efi 3S
4  4F1         I

85~

]BY SAN

a
1 +
t
4   f

,     'f   1


86

MY F1tST TRIP TO NEW ORLE4NS.

CHAPTER XII.

I never was scared so bad in my born days. '
down the stairs with a light in his hand-the CG
between me tnd the door, Kitty was no tellin wh
not knowin  hat to do. When I heard the door
no ways particular about my shins-I just went ii
and everything else. I was right after getting aw
I didnt think about steps when I camne out and
low how far, right on myknees and hands. I
kind of posture long. I was right after gettin ot
for the Clerk and tother man were right after n
run over bar'eIs, boxes, chicken coops, up against
no tellin wh t all, and the first thing I knowed
some kind o a chicken house, I reckon, and on
kind of bull logs jumped almost right in my fac
says I. I couldnt help howlin if they were aftei
like the varmint was eatin me, up alive. What
and folks af er me, and I inside of a high wall,
way out. .hich way shall I go? mercy on mi

bere came the man
erk was gettin up
re, and I was here
swing open I want
over chairs, tables
my from that place.
fell down, I dont
never staid in that
t of the back yard,-
ie with a light. I
sapplins, posts, and
I run up against
e of your biggest
3. Bigon! bigon !
me, for I felt just
shall I do? dogs
nd dont know the
! I'm gone now !

BY~ SiAM SndPLE, 8
I run right around the house,. ad at theicorner I run over the chain
of another great dog. ' Le ma4 a lick at me as I fell over his chin,
but didat exactly get me. Big n! Oh! me'! I'm eat up alive-
bigon ! you ugly varwint,  rale'd out of hiswayandjumpedup
for another run. I knowed now the 'dogs were :tied, but i didn't
know how many more there ,idhte, and I might run right into
one's mouth, or I might blunder right back here on these sane one.
It looked like the whole yard was fpll of dogs, they barked so. I
didnt have half sense, I was scared so bad. I couldnt tell which
way I was goin, but I was determined to run until they laid hands
on I. Here they come with the light. What shall I do ? "There
he goes-catch ,him--eatch hlim- -tuiru the dogs loose-turn the dogs
loose and catch the scoundrel." Oh!tme, two big bull dogs and two
men, and I dont know how imuny niggers, after me. The niggers had all
.got up and were runnin every which way. Here come the dogs-.
Boo--boo-boo-Sam's gone--there's no gettin out ofhee. 'Tey'll
soon.have ie, and the dogs will killme-before they can pull them of
if they'd try, but I knew they wont try. At last i've gct to be en
by bull dogs-oh! me ! 1'hey are most to ne. Look, at the sticks
and fde' rails, dud ehe dogs to kill me. They are goin to kill me
bght hIe.   Ie s"i e  Iliked to knocked my breath out. I wa4
looking behind and run ap agagit a tree. I'm almost right blind;
I don't know what I'in, oin, I feel right foolish. .I'mustaggerin and
I believe I'll fl l down. That lick has knocked me out of my
'enses. I shall faint rht here, and the dogs will kill me and I'll
never know it. It will never do to be killed here.  Oh! what shall
I do? I cant let the dogs tear rue to pieces. I'll go upthis tree and
they will have to shoot me out. .I'll die before I'll come down, I
jumped right up and caught hold of a limb, and drawed myself on i ,
'in a minute. I'just did clear my distance, for I felt one of the ,4os
scrape the bottom ofmy boots with his teeth, as I went up. I like
to have let go the limb, it scared me so. I thought they had me In
less than a minute they were altaround the tree. But. just as the
man run up with the light, I saw the tree was up close.to the wall,
and I was right even with the to. -I made one spring and lit upon
top of the wall. I liked to have fell'right aekwards all down among


bS       MY FIRST TRIP T0 NEW ORLEA
the "butI ortr)u hed flIysCWforwatrds and ton
fthja lin t  W loj sy orter  n1  %11i'  i. it
C1~41
w  a   inthjtreghty    r «E i oud
uhe.  ~'v 11i' ie do 'vtIiu11 'Bi h it ho T
do to i         cewa n tIl be aght byIson
and rI ant t ct nt bog hs c f n hn stret
rfor5[
eou'1 cnme ln' ti e."  1  o   blad o
ifro iit  i ts(hmie ..l , iev  i luyi~&amp;cie
.'oij}I +  !ea&amp; j  SE it  ap rniej"{= lti R  A ean~i kh1'
anwa&amp;A  nt  gwn toruh   pi
Thb~d ~       letio1hv!t
d lynrtdiw1j  .y+p y foot on  i s t t I d      bt
and 1 wan to areio  t  t.oubh'les. Can r ou iet
"los ege  ~on ' ith .Is i  b iht ado
wa~i't% o trgh~ay ~i~1  ; bnti" ih"'o"' ''

N~~.                              13Yl 'A1I ~1LwX

doC ajuilJ,i(1' the.
1  y
lie W1 Up ;}t  irP.
('h ii
(ltit 1i nve they
(1  tYn bhdy r) hI~t
2) 10.   stopped   ht   s
1  It will ibe'er
41ve lust nIr'y way,
(1, 1110t t e Hotel,
Y6 hie; if y ou arc
the d e aJid
a hundred y'a)Fds.
10 S'15' "Mere is
charge '      s I
walnt to give imn
e~d it night Tiiuui-
tdollar anid a half,
But, nevertheless,i
m11 g1101a dollur
erytiber l'- mnd
io the Clerk and
gai   and I'll set it
1yore letters, I dl6nt'
E rcuiibl~e t hey i iutst
ve to do., rr  iEnr
o.ii t. Itivtesj

amc the sl1ut4le's to tl?4Iiw,,elsq Jeonrel Pg q141?pbY tfhqnii re t
bull dl   gs. I 9 get e   hq { ar' ir. : t el  ud "   'give l~e
mc1,},ily nmyreti4,is f N11 pti.11DeJ er le11roi , t+ l  e  Qg#qdark: ",
i I  ".~I                        h   d~h      l~
Wt4ell, I wpadz er xl  fi}  of#  tTrJ2I .ha eu  l1qrcU1i xP d
of hey "S~Ll ''..51o.op}l fd1}44 ql9O fl      thew' i  ,nG
wh u fthy were alter me, and may be at the :boat now wait,1;for, 1m
lX)j~;~ Ji    eid  =,4~f 441j :om } I i'addy, li,4or. o. wQYIn.?"=
You c of w  t11   pteci}  t hjyp i"elf, tfpi,; I f el i;ite o ti red
to trvel any; ioqc to ~ght 1 J; 'y } y   onqcy b yon g '  t
me, ho Icome l~yt:Jpqty1itlry4ddo nt              fhr   o
thig e  raiYI:iipgie t 'hua' ~cy m , dr      er p  "u,44At, ty tight to giyom 2thi
gold.. I, do  yam t m  hj  ,4eamifCan, find
out  o u p r w w h  e t,  e  '    t  e  ur e o ,o  l .  c y u. o t  wnin}t  nQ ar o  urcfg9ld. if tlicr  i  sfthe  lea st  dishonesty  in  the  w ay
Let me see howwuc ,he-r ayc'e. Te h  4p ures. Iv~      t
felt-like a lump of leadtwhien,1ivtas r innj4 fro iz¢tlleni 4fogs dd ,I
wa:s, afraid twou d; l rean izy g11qws qn :thele ft s1iqo0,i-de-r  WeIZ ' 1iat
is1 pine chance of it, Th4e olQ,;i1Qa4y purse! isjam2 full. I'll _pour
it out on the bed.  Zook at it.  never did 'scu so nxueh before~
believe every pi, ccis $Oi: z, count it. XW Iell zl' I m# u ky
somelftiams. 5,I, rau1  xr o v .r pl, bt it paid.'this gm' "e.Jit  qt
ly one t tousJnddo  r.  fI.dour Dever, he   I~, ''tty  ]}a u' .I've
made 'a gopd 1hqul t'itii i4  I, 10kmqyv  nt g iQ to ; Lunt, up hat6
man, to give it th lin u.  q ;n' }ne with;, a bullets; :I'Jl l eep th ,
rnpuey; right , or ,wrpuig, sr h  ;i'  fieQL'to beputtsui Myself °anmong';
Ahyi 4~~ un  p         'yfy,, ~t voce #one, thousa id in  d
mq~l.I'll' put  194 4 6 ,iyi% ~s nrso1 and, 111 keep you 1until
I ; kuow oall hope' lit of  ,4n4 i~  ty. " 2  iut  - in to spend "
it, unjess Im, obliged to do i ,uixdr, then. 'I'U apeud as 1i tie as
Iam mightyy glad toit  t g et r 'z.ofItty .tho o  I w "si. he, had her;'

IN f  1,  r

85.


90             MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEA
money. I'm   raid this gold is swine to make me
I think I've had my share since I left home, wi
fresh quantity on account of one thousand d
feel  mighty   proud  if I had    one  thousan
money, but I dent like the way I got this. I
it now, and I must be governed by circumstance
my ownisafety. I will embrace the first opportun
purse and gold to the owner. I must now try and si
mighty tired.
I laid down and tried to sleep but I was dreaming
the time. I euld hear dogs and men after me all r
most awful night I ever spent. I'd rather be in a s
up, than in a ban's yard with dogs after me, andi
and staves. then I got up next mornin I felt mid
been beat with a stick. I'd run up against so man
side, breast anl face felt like all the skin was off.;
glass but I coiddnt see where the skin was off; thou
sore. When breakfast time come on I was regular
pretty considerable knocked up. I felt mghty like
They kept me under that bed so long I like to perim
ways particular Which side of a bisket I bit first.
or two-at it, a d swallowed it right down. [just p
fies, biskits, coee, eheeae, and everything 'I could
laid in a good upply and it made me feel a heap be
a new man when I got up from the table, if I was a
I wanted to look ab4ut the city a little, for I'd been
bed so long I felt just like I was on my second trip
.But I didnt know so well about riskin myself out a
gun to thinklaboit leaving the city, and upon the
this 'hasbetter than to:be gittin into ten thousand
seen-the'elephant, snout and all, and I didnt like ti
certain. - I had an everlastin recollection of this gri
from the auction house to the-back side wall under
lost money and made money and nearly  wore my
;rouble. I had seen more trouble since I'd been h
life put together. I spent some wretched nights st

s,
see trouble, and
thout having a
liars.  I would
i of my own
ut I cant help
3, on account of
ity to return the
ep a little for I'm
and jutupin all
ight. It was the
beam boat blowing
n  with sticks.
hty sore, like I'd
r things that my
I looked in the
gh it felt mighty
y in if I did feel
eatin something.
hed.  Iwarnt no
[just made a lick
nled 'inmeat, waf-.
get hold of. I
tter. I felt like
tight as a drum.
cooped under the
to New Orleans.
gain. I had be-
vhole I thought
troubles. I had
he monster much,
nd Crescent city,
the bed. I had
heart out with
ere than in all my'
udyin how to get

t

BY SAM :IMPLE

91

awa frontn here when I didnt have more than thirty-seven cents in
my locket. I've got money a plenty now, nd.I think I'd better be
mak n tracks whilst I'm able t&amp; pay my wa . But I dont feel much
like gom home.. I haveut seen all I want to see, and then I have a
saeakin notion so pay that gal a visit who ,wrote me that nice letter
ana told me to give her a call. I'll just go out and get me some
new pants and a vest, and I believe I'll go to se her. I called for,
imy money and went out and popped into the first clothing store I saw.
) soon bought what I wanted and made for the hotel. I felt mighty
skittish. I was so fraid there was some otlher trap to catch me in
before I could get off. I was afraid of everybody. I was gettin sO anx-
ionsto get away from this city that to be stopped now would really
skil me.
Begun 'to look around for a Lboat and 'it rant long before I come
across a great sheet of paper like unto a, be4 quilt, with a tremendous
" =hg boat painted on it and under it was the the most important of all
too me, that the boat was gwine to leave that day, precisely at 10
lockok for S3t. Louis. Tlis was the boat I penal, but I didnt care
nothin about the name, for I'd already found oat that boats were
just like folks, there want no depeudance t be put in theirnames.
was just determined to get on the first boat that left to go up the
lMississippi. I was gettin the all overs to 'et away from this city.-
lUd been tuck in so often since Ihave been here that I am afraid to
ig out of my room. I thought the women he best friends I had, but
inow believe that gal was trying to get me into a scrape. I just be-
ileve that man and the Clerk and Kitty all nderstood what they were
-about.' And since I've come to study about it, I just believe Kitty
give maythe purse of gold and then led me own a blind way into the
clerk's room, and fixed the chairs 'and tables all in my way, and
thou opened the door to let me fall over, them so that the Clerk
'ight catch me, and I wouldhave the parse of gold, and they
would have me fast for stealing. Kitty want in that yard for I
r1n all over it.. She never came out o that door, and I just be-
lieve the plot was all fixed 'beforeh ad to get me into a tight
place and scare me most to death    nd  make inc give up all
my money. But they wouldn't done n       big business, for they
r                                                    "

0

r                              I

4r
l


92             MY FIRST TRIPS 0FyO   W QRLEA
wouldn't have   got but a dollar    and 4hal
for  all 9eir trouble;  ey   thought just
on  fie .cldtes  I must. have  jots of Jn
dont know    nothing  alout ith           th
is the, way  they   form  opnin   fpi it is
that wears fine clothes and t     8is A": that,
his  pocket.   The  old   copeas  "ndIjean
more money ,han    the broadoi4 h     isan
just  as  true  as  sun, rising, jIthat dress
man," an   I would put on what ours teh
a scholiunm, at d say, dress dont begin to  na
Them   fdlks would hive been ,more than
in 'if they had overhauled me laitrnight. I just
wouldnt fixed so well fi another gent wio had
No, sir, it wo ld 'have learnt then ope lesson tI:
get-but I'm inighty glad they didnt  get m  , I
their notions were.
I dont know vhat to do-with.this ggld,, I' ight
is wine to get me into tro blg.   :'mt great n ih
in the boat to hrow it, into the,water, the first
I dont like o be carrying anyThggbthat dent
and especiall - A thing I got in the maner
dont make no difference   if Kitty 1didgive it
get me into a 3crape, that dont make the matl
so far as I am concerned.  I didnt work ior t
I . didnt give value received for it, and it
for she only put, it .in my care ,becauseshe ra
where to car-y it, and in no sense can it, be
-My conscience aint easy about the matter; and
how to make i ,easy. If I just had a friend to
hit upon some plan to do just what is right ,al
I :dont want theshade of a shadow  of dishonest
ering after me, rnd just wouldn't let myself kn
done a dishone t act, for ; all the gold in Californ
use to be hidin things from  the world when  ti
in side. of you. which ii constantly. sayjn, you  l

Uto pay - them
eca se  I  aa
no ,bu     the
world if  al
n      I yvry f
ot money i1,
11it les. car
old sayin. aind
out ujake   t
3r used to cil
e a woman:-
nsiderable tuek
be bound they
tore clothes on-
ey, w uldntfor
do t care what,
4frgLid. th is t
d  whenI get
h nce I gelt
.belong to me
.   d thihs. I p
to. me jy~t9
er a bit better
iis money, ad-
ant a present,
d she hadano'
ny propty.-
I don't kknow
onsult I niic;hi,
out this money-
y to be hank-
ow  that I hadn
ia. It aint nD;.
cre's something,
now you dons,

hIlh  9      'dianot ad  e flde  i  e'ffidg r" ri~ff~ibre
your'6eslike tat'nn          6ito bli Be hanar'Q alao8"dud
wrote out his-verdict on the wall --you areweighed by the stillyards
and you make no pound;.'' f.just aint gwine to have no iluch
thunderin talki .inside of' me as will make my knees go to knocken
together. Not I, for I.aia.got no admiration for no such eloquence.
I want to be above board myself, and al ways able to hold my head
tup and look a man fight in both eyes, and just have the satis-
.faction to know, that if I aint as big folk as some, there is inside of
this skin and bones j st as honest a he rt as fver beat in unison
with the pulse. But I dont feel like I could do this if I keep tais
bold, for if I should happen to get to talin to a man, and he was
accidentally to mention gold, I'd feel a flush on my face in a minute.
And when a man does anything wrong lie always keeps so sharp a
look out on that point that he is certain t get a randoen shot.' It is
just like having a sore toe,  e 'ey thing seems to strike it. The little
grass and weed whjah one wouldn't hane noticed is now tearin the
-very skin off aid makifif; leed, t  ust so when a man has done
an ugly trick h consciencee is so tender and so watchful that the
ordinary conversation of an. unsuspecting friend hits his case so
pointedly and forcibly that he shudders with the idea of his friend
reproving him in this slantin kind of way. I dont want to be in no
such fix, and I aint gwine to be for a th usand  times a thousand
twenty dollar gold pieces. I aint never made gold my God, and I
'int wine to be bowing down to anything in the shape, form or color
of gold, and to be worshippin it. Give me the feelins of an honest
man above everything else. The whole vorld itself couldn't produce
-such a feelin as that which gets up in a mnan when he knows from
the bottom of his heart he has always tried to do right, and when
this mind-goes back over the past it cant rake ; p'no act that it can
point to as dishonest. This is the feeling for me, and all the gold
of-the world may sink to the bottom of the ocean, or go into old
misers' chest, to harrass 'their souls through t'me, and no tellin how
much longer.
Hallo ! there's the boat whistlin and Ill be ef6inr this city anoth-
-er u-ght to be cooped up under the bed orin some other.tighter place.


94             MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEIANSYA
I must be in  hurry for it will almost kill me  ight: dladto stay.
here when I've made up my mind to leave. this.worcisome.city...
CHAPTER XII.
When I want to be right o from a place the whistling of a
boat loosen every joint in me  I gahered up them same old
bay, which stuck to me through thick and thin, and I made
boat. My feet fel as lig H  as corkand I got along, over the
without any trouble. I just walked right into the boat, an
up to the Clerk's ofiice I went. I want gwine to be be~p
time in getting a room. Says I, Mr. Clerk, I wans a room
wants it all to myself, with nobody in it ceptin me myself.
are you goin ?" says he. To Baton Rouge, sags I.  Wel
he "You can have No 9."  No, says I, I'll have none
Not a bit of your1nine. No, sir you cant come tlia  "Wel
he, "Stranger, you needut get excited; you may have No,10
right, says I, though I didn't liketo be so neighborly to  9
I thought I wouldn't be foolish about the matter, as No. 10 m
the lucky room. Some folks say that good luck and bad l
neighbors, and I am about to make a trial f it  Steamnisg
and we will soon be off.    el
nug, tricky people . ,I leaveyunot     ert n
have put we on the rack, aqdt  fo  ealm       eeo
I've got the, best of your, t glg  n)eryaa   er
more money than I broughthrei     a be     un     no

95
steam.
saddle
for the
ground
d right
d this
, and I
Where
li' says
r nines.
I," says
' All
But
ight be
uck are
i up
rment-
Igh you
0 time,
n times
ood:


MY FIRST 1' IN TO'NEW)oRLEA_ S,
and Iseen your city and learned your ways, and mad; you pay for
the whistle.  Ya didn't know you had picked up  tartar when you
were plotten against me. You New  Orleans folk mest keep your
eyes skinned when you deal with Alabamians.   u aty think you
are doing good business, but the first thing you know, the Alabamian is
off, and well paid for your fun. GJo it, New Orleans folks, Sam's stuck
his finger into your eyes, and he's now gwne up he Mississippi to
see the gal what helped him out in the day of troub e. She aint none
of your Kitty kind, what would lead a fellow alo n bhdy1 ways right
into the m uths of bull dogs. She's got better blood than that and
better raisin too. She's got a mighty tender felii for a fellow in his
distresses, and to tell the truth about it, I's got a powerful distress on
account af my feelin for her, and that aint all, I'm gwine to explain
the matter to her underiat d1Ri., Paff a\vay old b at, no body aint
scared if you are travehin fast. Just pitch ahead the sooner you get
th et6 e tte
We' hadie ieeu uinin botain hour 'ivhn ani t10'r stdaniboat come
difn iup'alongsideOf aLs  S  o the ynsyii crirser ighf up for a
ta2a sote waiit by'a goad de"i It   he' bat St. Luis, and its
p  segietsivere all out on thc oikr del a  iQ  jheir lanker-
chibfs and a akin fur of our boat  I begin to fel the bl6dd get-
tin wi ) iii nMe," and t'uh tei  rai" Wa t withinn to 'iie,
I Udat a6tt6he'boat I  ason in-I8 tLnduoff. I f It  ke I wanted
tsaacenaanddI w        a   boat to b6at  First 'one and then
angth r'cauAht the feeling, and before we knowed it we ,ere all put
oa til  eckhuira'nfor o  boit. "  hftwsbth er N6\v'riinin
even and even, just exactly heca and eItad.  de watn before and
the tthei' want.  oth were puttion' steaiiandpi i in woodn
god rest. The ballers ebeua to et lot#ind thi indlie  ind
ieia  .'                        'oIi t.m  .n1   and
sparks went uplike a'velcanb ou ofthe chimneys. The ig,w eels
daseini the water up likeiiall tdiI  'it"i h  ia  oaipsuds
w  Nehi i. ifieold 'botemdecliKe   lejaastrmn,as though
hehaanaguon hi"1-.t eca ti in   a k d back a ~ uh4 'ward
rt1                   fot"va     r h  " old
i the hV-lica deck, atthie old ila'l od il e" Iae oIdse the;
e pia t w'nLike  acad"'aotId
rp'n trd etrnip th peil  hie          Ud                pilardthe
rn  st  al tan tie powi uni a$a cdBE I,  i :e haak "heie llt

I'--

watched the favorabhl&amp;pa tti+th      k hnel, k tt i4ov  afi  at liZ1
a thidiofiife up the aki    o  t Med "'Tho  ngiieel d1%he
thpra id til   oi '6th 'pildts bell-t llix di t  ' i te  th e'
and like a ian bereft 'f all i daeroded th fr'abes 4it ,t
fatest in. " The'   s fiksA koied alohgi  xy f *i '
saiey3 mood liked the up}eerairT the] aiigedt
and etch anid albhide'ft'As '  issftg  4 oil e    hean
Some pulled ff lir dAr idtoatewood       t    rohn     -
him build the fire. F liedoi e'  dre   l      ndh      6
was getting too"w rim t a lo cdiitir(tNaa h Thie  wt 'ure 'ti
as we toated tie blik and ditf'f *dd khd the id t1llks    rk"
ed like 'a fretted fre  it '               'the  '*O A    hi1a
the fir ry blaze shot out Ir6i thef tib uth ofthe chin en   it
like a eaalkiln breaking out. Eah  a   *as doiitesnj       e "
the women and children had come outupuio deck aid iaid, itie in
each one f6r her own boat. Tie ioifers l6oked like t e y Wdild ide1
and ye everbody         liigP      in   ore woodi!*'obd
want tiinkin about danger'hthough the het ba    fbilon     ia
above safety. The passengers wer eecit&amp;aid her  id           ,
fire up seven fold l'oLe t.laf the'f n'ee f  rlii;oA  M
and Abednego. Thefires ared'andiar            e     :t
rious steam drove with madness "the' rekes" s'a'ineryeT '  hog; n
axles sparkla in their sockets!from the rapid f arict; i n , ea
wheel left buta dneimcircle initheir hast y';oout  ois: TI l 6 jdlot
rope med along  its descending 'track,,  s h 4 thi-av.64
der like'a fish's in amid the waters. ,u  breast, and '6kea t tli'
struggling boats cut' heiwg up themighty nrver   I
hundred miles froh whre the boats co   iencedrc
Rogue. We had been runny 'like a illdon in a torm      and
would soon be at the end of the race. The victory must sob&amp;
won or lost. I never felt so excited in ain life. 'hewtl rialY
and the "St. Louis," are the two swiftest and 'es 'boat on t b a
sissippi. They never had run agaist each otier, aid they  re
now to decide the matter.  everybody had said one day that the
'St. Louis," was the fastest boat on the~ river, and every bod  idd
said, on another day that the "imperial" was the fastest. 116f


a r  1at  i ~4piight. 7? re pol!1de :no
exa        n til      e~ ~   t~  p otof1A  r
ea              and fe.Q' tbwas uhgpw the yuqut,
" l  a,  n  te t*cu 1 iu te dcswo ce   y i thn '.
H            ch{de'  j ;;s  e  1 rqo'  to  ~t ti   i  p" 9
a n                 I  . 3'elt  l   ker  f  1  dctm
A bl h p  .  :"    ,.di te  tu ~  l t9 iv    oo ~ d .  ud zTlc  St.' Lou
(att pO    "1    ,'  .   '     t ,   the'" l,,w th
b k ars  r                     rnt  to
h  he Q      QflflC U a net  pf ictor' ' d th
. tohe lc         dA  pneaiittf uso b I fet  k a lttle
;l  f 3t8  ptfsoon i as  :e '' "o"'I  lefti jie
ru tgoit  ri htothem.al'swhoused, tvwarayt tl
ruts    ere n     .isibtel1andfx ui
litle  ltd bof e t   m ip rc  ,andfied Yuj i s , lC up  o h
ti+,t '   '" ofb" ''  :it ~s  sWS ta b  t f.shio;. i red cabl, o  more O  entYto. eBn~dm
,011r10.5rn4indfiil~ t       p t9 , t e men-
,I        Tree.       O~~replc.
,.fi  ho s.            n              itrr. i~i  3  ao
Tl     'e )lQ ~ l dyfine9}}  (ttfelyyt teuyi 3uabout g  '  n   a
aq 'g                1 R4  mind ttul ariid and1gt aid ;btitr~cbee  ta
n, 1ine  Ald Iir.adyat  d o sth  a n whito'a  d  'his

I :lvet upiit o  auttii l pboreh and kii6k&amp;  like I kfl We4t'
I  a out. (11'* 1i L i brif  pig e  d dthe do ',4 a
Elie "IDcd tt i ijod a il j f ' "(I r4id  d&amp;  ",  f11  L
wench ; d ;yodiisiippo"t id o ne  hete jf I; did' vtat!d f9i iY
h e  i  Iad or  jdt i A!t dxne  int  e'
wasWX1         o" tie  rdoAti  aijd "1 s4aI ,   -  t ,Atif
that ble se4li tl ' 6ret " i to ceii 6' they iiwhy t v~d h 0t:  fi$
S4he # heied~around the n ce''!Ad f!eptlike  elid
day eIiit er tve ~her ftoi b' g v.'T~A r      nfft
of the  "e pxr you  f 1hex. d&amp;ej r#ktft ieie  o thlfl ring"b" .
Kind a ts'plty tinfold T thb  o&amp;~i4  dslie* ewlf eI e id v~ biii
in  tinir  f  istres  '  xpe  send  W thh'hk i    "oeA' ii Ii I sl  oip  sd  r1   t',a  al f~ i itk f .eel I   W
ef olia     rI  6d by           AlI  ~~pin   161
loved the dear littI i6.rafir&amp;  Slid didnbtk  h i  d"
t,) ti  eaet  g h t 1 IWd dtriv il.' on'heEidA1h   dW
and gave mec a warmi shake of the hand, whilst the gratefulr' l~"
dangtr     odMs     neiealm      p   4d6 s   't r ilsc
Jean s nd howSher money69 got   f  eble! scrii  t A  heee.
fed so rejod hat  h~etr y echdm ir hehu oUy'ed
11sadwt hsitrsi ay  hforawek d thetd thm
old mnt'sae id idt t'y ith hxeim;I Waseirllintodo, rovidd IW I
daudgt AngI etoM.Anwler alortuesir onbt n  jI  afr
to elloid hat ho. Honeeyreaneeday w nhe Iwouwaluof yin
taoe ird withneet mil for a fe, andghento hem yIf


199q

MY IST TRIG'?1$W ORLEANS,

just4aagod compa doand a pIgsant ligti home. the said it
was.a 4p  hle had, )ong desired. Nrs the time thinksI, I have
alh 4ga  and 4othin to lose, oI popped the question right out. I
sag   aminute thetI had not missed then ark, rpch. She hung
herd 4    little while, and bit her finger pails and looked niighty.
sh  e. 4knowed there was no tinptq lose, and I argued the que -
tion with aU my might, ttold her, I had saved her1 life once and.I
wanted to talre care of. her the balance of life. ,Itold.her I could
never  Ive satisfie4 wi hout her and with her my happinesswould be
conletse X,.told her not to be ashamed, hut tell me yes or no.-
Sl igeg  p her head and said 'though, my question was not unex-
peq:p yet she would ask of ue toe favor .let her think on it till
morning. "Iould tot refuse though Iwas afraid of the result.-
Tht was along night to re.  rolled and tuinled like s, mnanwith
a 'faevr. I kupwed she would ask the old folk and no tellin what
they wopld say.. I xiade up a heapof speeches to mage tp her, but
no naqf them esed tocover thg ease. Iwas glad to see day, and
glidertosee Angeline. I soon got a private talk witlyiher and I
askedter;whatuanswer' she had decidedd e to givpenie. I trembled
wh   I4 Ige                 Y her.,I ut shevery sweetly said, "I believe the man
whps 4ve4my life will take gare of ne,,nd I hake decided to accept
I1 asxejoiegd to ovmeiflowin, My joy was Above high water mark
I a4   ,Ii r if ~she thought hpy parents would be; opposgd to it;
"Not at all," says she, "they will rejoice to know that you wish my
hatd., Wyesoonmentioned the, matter to the old fglks, and all
thing were fixed up n short order, and Miss Angelipe had her name
chageg    prs. Simple.,

SJI$MIMPLE,              0

(1APE'1R XIi._

I'd caught the bird but-I didn't have no cage to put-her ib.  I
want worth a cent except a little, pocket change, but I didn't care
for everybody to know it  I d got into a big family and I wanted to
keep up appearances as much as possible  Luck had turned on iy
side one time, and popt me up among the upper tens, and I didn't
want them to think.now that I was small potatoes. In fact, 'sinee I
got them fine clothes and locked at myself in the glass ]was°ggettin
to believe that I was consider ble of .a punkin myself. I wanted;to
keep up these feeling and continue good'. impressions on allothers.
How to do it was the question.. I was right smuartly'botheredaVouv
it. I turned  the matter o er and over in my mind, but everyside
looked about alike. I wanted to talk with-somebody about things in
general, but I didn't have no body I could: talk to without lettin the
cat out of the wallet. It wouldn't do to talk to the old man. I didat
want him to lower his sights about, ine. :It would be mighty bad
policy to put up apoor mout to him, if I want d him to help me.
He'd think I hadn't been use  to much, and, th rofore, it wouldn't
do to trust much With me.  hat game wouldn't pay.
I couldn't talk to Angeline about 'affairs, for the dear little thing
want studyin about business. She hadn't been raised to it. She
was just all love, and honey, and candy, and pie, and such like sweet
things. I couldn't turn round  for the blessed little creature. She
want satisfied unless she was settin in my-lap and lookin me right in
the face. She would pat my j ws a little; then twitter me under the
chin, then throw my arms around my neck and kiss me until I was
most out of breath, she'd comb my head until every hair had almost
learned its place. She would 't let a speck of dirt get on my clothes
but was constantly, dusting  ie with her nice cambric hankerchief
She waited on.me like it was the greatest pleasure in the world,

101

d
f


102       MY FIRST. RIP' :FO t°  W 'ORLEANS,

She didnt want me to get out of her sight, and if I walked off for a.
few minutes, she would set at the window or in the porch, and watch
me as far as she could see me. And she made me always promise-
her that I wouldut stay long, and say the very minute that I would
be back. If I staid one minute over the time she was restless and
uneasy until I got back, au4 would lways come out to the gate to
meet nie and kiss me like I had been gone a week. Bless her little
heart I wouldn't disturb it with: +business for nothin; She's like
sunshine on a Gold cloudy day, and like sugar to bitter thing. She
can sweeten allithe ills.of life, and not half try. It takes a mighty
load off a, man's heart, when he gets home every day to look into two
bright loving eyes, and.to feel arms creeping around his neck, and
wari kisses melting on his cheeks, and a sweet angelic voice saying
honey, my dear &amp;c. 'A main's a fool if, he don't get married. He
aint fit tobe called a man. iHe,.aint nothin and don't know nothin.
Life without a woman is like coffee without sugar, taint worth hav
in6. Th0 man who dont love some ,woman and aint engaged, to sup-,
post bero'nd who wont let somewoman love him and make much of
hin is fit for nothin but "treason, stratagems and spoilh.'' When a'
nman; getstgrown he ought' to marry, and if he aint got sense
engiigh to kinow his duty, he ought to beinade-to marry. The world'
aint ,got ! .,usek for old ,bachelors. All bachelors are a mnuiance
Women are a great:thing, and-young gals -in particular. 'I wouldut
take a mint for. Angeline; not even if it run by steam.dd And I dent,
want a cloud-to come over the bright sun shine of her soul, nor to
cast au shadow over my 'future path. that (promises such gloy and
hapiaeset
So I went say business to her. I'll study through the matter my-
selE  I've been in some mighty tight places and I've got through
aomeibow, and I reckon I neednt be much troubled about present
difficulties.- I'll find an end to the tangled ball after -a while and
then I'll unwind it.
I wae Iiusin and studyin with all my might every day in order to
hatch up ,some plan by which to keep up my respectability. At
hreakfast one morning the old man asked me if I didnt want to go
w ith him to onpe of his plantations.' I wont no titne consenting. I

102

:1d im .1 I was' always at h
the planftationsai dknov so
up. Angeline wasia fortur'
lied with her, ,but I-dont ;ei
aways mighty convenient
nieo gal its  fortune, butsh
lhernoney too.: 3  .
I. shad got ty gaff but
might be. Fvery body Si
alway. know other ;pgopips,
when they die they ainti*or
old. Aid every man who)
and buggies paint rich. a Soin
airs and cut a ashinigfigtu
. win thqwusztss an4 aiit.,wr
are counterfeit folks, pasin fo
IC was i hopes, ,hadnt
muy father 'w, was a inighty.
Inl aboutt liini.  e Ididnt, m
noticed that great meni area
and couuterfoits are always
When greatness and riches a,
e Asy; bttvhen they are ape
flashy, and thqvwiar puts o
These rme foxfire sort of.peo
rottenness, 9soome people n
debts., J aint iti favor of no,
I and the Major, soon got
gelin-wanted to go, butzsome
they .woulleall to sep her .and
her to remain.
Major and I put ant right
almost as a plank flour and 'ii
Majorsaid it was ten miles to
and the hgrse was such a good
more than five,, I was enjoyii

s service. Il was nitihty anxious'to see
methin about the fortune I had picked
e herself, and I was mightyiwelIsatib
re how ;valuable a gal may, bey'money .i
A :manr does mighty well i to get 4rgood
does heap better if he .geta a gal and
I didnt know 'exactly hot.otherthing
the old, man was-riehEbit -fo ksrdent
business. Sone folks pass for rich and
ha' coat.  very thing tht shines aint
is in a iLf nieuse, and has carriages
a folks eanuuiakii big show and put on
n the works and ill the tipie they are
l a eemt they cain pall tbhir o~np. They
r gorethan shey are worth..
truck up with csuli folks. The Major
plain sort ofVia.man, Thore want no put
ike. any display.. And I have always
lwys plain and simple, an4 little nien
showy, flashes, and , sprter uek :up.
re real, they are always natural and sets
and fictitious, they aregewgawish and
a great many airs to attract attention".
le., Just as old, wood shines from its
e Abig show   in proporion  to their
ateh folks.
buggy ready. after breakfast. An-:
emale friends had sent her word-that
spend the day with her, aind, begged
hwn ;the river. The road as level
wont no trouble to get alkn.. The
he plantation, but the ond wasolevel
traveler that it didnt appear, to be
the ride finely, and felt just. like ,I


104

MY FIRST IP TO NEW ORLEANS,

could drive a half day without tiring, when we tame in sight of a
beautiful large white house situated on the top of a- small elevation
that sloped gently on every side. The-major said that was his plan-
tation, My heart jumpedin me for joy. It was a perfect Paradise.
1 could see it for more than a milk bofore I got to it. This was the
only hill in the midst of an immense tract of river bottom land. The
nearer we got  it the more beautiful it become. I felt poetic, but
I couldat recollect any suitable poetry.  I havent had many books
of poetry to read though I am mighty fond of this jingling kind.
"Fromthe moist-meadows to the withered hill,
Led by. the breeze, the vivid overdue runs,
And swells, and deepens, to the eberish'd eye,
The' hawthorn whit% ns; and the' ivey groves,
Put forth their buds, unfolding by degrees,
Till the whole leafy forest stands display'd
In full luxuriande, to the sighing gales."
Now somehow orother I forget the tother  verses. I use to speak
that poetry and could rattle it 'off like pease on a cowhide, but its
done slipped out.of my mind. Poetry wont stay with a man long  f
ter he beginsto be jostled -about in the world, the hardships of life
soon take all the poetry out of a man. I can admire *any things
and -my feeliks get up mighty high, but its hard to g~t above dull
prose. But if I did have a spark of poetry left in me tle scene be-
ft-e me would kindle it to a live coal.
We soon reached' the dwelling house. There was a beautiful yard
.only it need some attention. The flowers and shrubbery had been
neglected, but they were beautiful even in disorder, I walked out
in the back porch and looked down the long slope and ovPr the broad'
bottom to the Mississippi river rolling its flood of water o the Gulf.
I went up "into an observatory on the top of the house tlIat I might
have a-better view. There was every variety.of obje ts to please
the eye,' iV d to delight the senses. I could look all ov r the farm,
and see the wheat) and corn, and rye, and barley, and cotton, and
sugar cane, and horses, and cattle, and hogs, and sh ep, and the
hands at work, And far up and down the valley I c uld see the
great River winding'its huge waters like a great anacon a, while on
its-bosomn the steam boats like things of life,went puffin u and down.
I was perfectly carried away: I could set up here and look all day

I was gazing here witho t4
called me to dinner. I went
was a number one dinner cerl
the subject justice.
After dinner, the Major h
-little'ones, men and women,
niggers. He then talked t
them who I was, and where
life of Angeline, and that I I
now his son-in-law. I grew
He told them that he was
er and he wanted to arrange l
had but one daughter and bh
lie died, and he had conclud
hands and stock. to his daug
that I was a mighty kind he,
of them and treat them well.
I agreed to what he said,
They soon left for their qua l
horses and took a ride over t1
the farm and told me all aboai
ions., I saw I was a rich ma
determined not to make a foo
make more.   \Ve soon went
that he.had given us his pla
and then got up and gave he-
man brushed away a creeping
m ight move. The major sai
So at the appointed time I
Tilhenmajor had every thing ii
the finest kind. 'Ihe yard wr
thing looked so beautifully an
two lovrs are to dwell. I wa
But I couldut help thinking
so much unless I could help n
I made up my mind to talk t(

4AM SIMPLE.

any idea of the ti
t down and. eat acco
tain, and that's the,

105
le when some one
ding to custom. It
ort I like. I done

ad all the darkies called up- big ones,
and all, I never did see such a sight of
o the niggers mighty; kind. He told
I come from, and how I had saved the
had lately married here, and that I was
most an inch when lie said this.
getting old and could not live much long-
his affairs before he went. he-said he
was anxious to see her fixed off before
d 'to give this plantation and all the
;hter Angeline. Ile told the niggers
rted Man and that I would take 'care
nd th niggers seemed well pleased.
tars and the major 'and myself got on
ie plantation. Ile oxplamined to me all
it the stock and tools and the provis-
and had a plenty for life, but I was
of myself, but to take cire of it and
ack home and the major told Angeline
it:tioni. She thanked him so sweetly
either an affectionate kiss. The old
tear. Angeline asked him when we
d he would have us fitted up next week.
nd Angeline went to our new home.
trim. New furniture, carpets &amp;. of
s trimmed up, nicely swept and every
A lovely. A perfect little Eden where
-happier than a king.
i of my own folks. I didnt want to have
.y parents and the rest of the children.
the major about it. at a proper time.

w1


( 'T

106             MY FIRST TRIP TO NEW ORLEANS.
One day the old folks came to see us, and while the major and my-
self were hiding over the farm, I told the major that my parents
were yet alive and I wanted to move them out here. He told me he
would be very glad for me to do so, and that he had a sniallplace that
they could Lave.  I thanked him and told him that I would write at
-         once. I wrote that night, Ad after a few days I gota letter in which
my parents said they would try to move in the fall. I tld the ma-
jor and he went to work to, fit up the piace for them. It was a nice
place about five miles from my house.
In the fall the old folks came out with all the childr n. There
was rejoicin like, old Jacob and Joseph in Egypt. I wa, so glad to
see them all and so proud to do something for the comfort of the old
folks. After a week, the old folks moved home and the -e they still
live, and are happy. We are now all here together and as happy as
folks ever was. Me and Angeline have all our folks ear us, and
we have nothing on earth to wish for or desire.
And now kind reader after many straits and narrow escapes, imy
narrative here draws to a close. I have not attempted to draw on
the imagination in order to feed a morbid craving for tlhe fictitious
or the romantic, but my chief aim and desire has been to givd to the
public some valuable illustrations of the treachery and m meanness so
frequently practiced upon the unsuspecting, and to make prominent
the power of honesty and preservance in obtaining the succecsses in
life.
The principal features of this entire narrative are all tre, but col-
ored and connected 'to give interest to the reader. I am bitterly op-
posed to all fictitious and trashy literature, and could not-give my ap-
proval tothat which is purely fictitious, and much less could I be-
come the author of such a work to the judgment of the public.


  
             
         
       
   
