
    ----CITATION----
        Moffett, Emma L.. Crown Jewels, or, The Dream of an Empire .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8400
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Crown jewels, or, The dream of an empire 
            
               CROWN JEWEL

o [,
THE DREAM OF LAN EMPIRE.

-sir
EMMA. L. MOFFETT
AUTHOR OF "MRAGFONT.
"Magnos homines, virtute, metimur, non Tortun,
"We estimate men by their virtue, not by their wnoee
Carleton, Publisher, Madon Square.
LONDON: s. LOWy SON &amp; CO.
MDCCCLXXI

i          ~_
                     _                        , ,

.~' { k  u'                       '
'](,             f,'

R

C                  '-              '
..      '
",}'...  ..  ; G  ale              +


0

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by
GEORGE W. CARLETON,
In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

TO
HER ROYA L HIGHNESS,
THE ARCHDUCHESS SOPHIA OF AUSTRIA,
WHO MOURNS A NOBLE SON ;
TO
THE OFFICERS AND SEAMEN OF THE AUSTRIAN NAVY,
WHO FORGET NOT THE, GALLANT AND HEROIC ADMIRAL,
WHO MOVED AMONG THEM A FEW YEARS SINCE ;
TO
THE CITIZENS OF TRIESTE,
WHO CHERISHED THE PRINCE MAXIMILIAN WHILE IN THEIR
MIDST, AND WHO KEEP GREEN IN THEIR HEARTS
THE- MEMORY OF
THE ILLUSTRIOUS DEAD,
ARE RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED.

CoLtMntrs, GA.,
October 1% 187.

Stereotyped at
TXU WOMEN'S PRINTING HOVUE
Eighth Street and Avenue A,
New York.

_                               .
i                                               -Wi      +f y,


CROWN JI
BOOK FlI
" TH1 history of times representeth the magnitud
C - deportment of persons, and passeth over in silence t
- men and matters. But such being the workmanship
weight upon the smallest wires, macimus e minimum
ward resorts thereof. But lives, if they be well w
person, to represent iz whom actions both greater a
commixture, must of necessity contain a more true,
Bacon.
r"
Tz*

WELLS.
RST.
e of actions and the public faces and
he. smaller passages and motives of
of God, asHe doth hang the greatest
*s supendu: it comes, therefore, to
p of business than the true and in-
ritten, propounding to themselves a.
id smaller, public and private, have a
native, and lively representation."-


CROWN JEWELS.
CHAPTER I.
"How brightly down th'e burning west
The monarch sun now sinks to rest,
Flinging abroad his breath of gold,
O'er all the clouds collected there,
Like bannered armiesto behold
Day dying on his gorgeous car."
IE sun -is westering slowly toward its setting. The
low, murky clouds, that have hung as a pall over the
earth, are gilded and brightened by the lengtllening
rays, and are hailing away - away --over the horizon,
to be in at the close of the day.. "The flashing and foaming
waves have left the sea, and all her isles in calm at last, and
in the" silent heart of the ocean, are murmuring their night
song, a soft serenade, to the "Genii of the deep" dreaming
in the coral caves. The golden beams glance tremblingly
athwart each tree and tower, and anon on, the breeze, comes
the soft cooing of the lonely cushit, echoing fartherand farther,
and still more faintly, till at last the gentle notes float into
nothingness, in the deep of the forest. ~'The gray-winged eagle is
fleeing over the golden hill-tops to the mountaineyry, where
the young birds wait, eager for the mother's coming; acid low
in the valleys, the wild flowers lift their pale, snowy faces up-
ward, watching for the return kiss of the dewdrop, that had
fled before the morning brightness.
Sunset i Brussels!
The great old elms in the park, very patriarchs in their
strength,- stand proudly about, as sentinels around that Ten-
ple .of Liberty -ythe Stadt House of ~the Belgiats. Those


'

CROWN JEWEL8.  '11

s
E
E
{
P
I
k

10                  CR0WN JEWELS.
towering elms -giant sons of nature -have stood there tri-
hant through the storms and tempests of years, have
looked calmly and silently down, upon the dynasties as they
e out, and left the royal power behind. The Arch-
duke of Austria, the King of France, and finally the
Netherlands themselves, have, passed under those spreading
branches, and given place to the Prince of Saxe-Coburg.
This evening the shadows of these huge trees - venerable
fathers that could tell- such legends of pride, and power, and
destruction --lay solemnly and, silently on the soft green
sward of the park in which they stood; and the beautifully
gravelled walks around seemed in their winnings. a rich trace-
work or broidery, on the emerald sheen. The park was ani-
mate with life. Here, were groups of children trundling their
hoops; there, a merry cluster of boys bounded over the grass,
in chase of the swift-flying ball, their game participated in, and
enlivened, by their canine attaches, which, according to Ger-
an fancy, must form a conspicuous feature in every party.
Seated on'the rustic benches, which, for comfort and conven-
ience, were placed under the wide-armed trees, were quiet little
maidens, of ages from six to ten, their worthy nurses,.or bon-
adingear them, being the chief dignitaries of these in-
formal gatherings. This afternoon, the pleadings of the littleiea
misses to "go home" were all unheeded, as the topic under
consideration was one of unusual interest; ideed, just then
the a11-absorbing theme of Brussels, and discussed with extra-
ordinary vehemence -the approaching marriage of the lovely
Princess Carlotta, with the Archduke Maximilian of Austria.
It is from the echoes of the words of the masses, from the
lips of the lowly, that we catch the true character of royalty.
To the uninitiated,- all kings are noble, all queens are lovely.
Catherine and Elizabeth sat proudly on their Russian throne.
Men bent in homage before them. But in the dark, fetid
streets of St. Petersburg was there found a voice lifted in bless-
for them? .Sought they ever to ameliorate the condition
of the miserable denizens of their capital? Did they think
of aught save splendor and power; the glittering coronet on
their brow, the sceptre in their hand ? Turn to the hospitals
of France; stop by the couch of the sick and dying, ques-
tion them  of their comforter, and around whose name will
blessings cluster ? What brighter gem shines in Eugenie's im-
erial crown; what words more precious tou heart, than the
"Vive 'Imperatrice "! coming from the fevered lps, of those

i
3

whose sufferings she has alleviated; not alone, by her generous
bounty, but by the doubly appreciated gift of her own pres-
ence, the soothing touch of her own hand?
"And you say, Dame Van Zandt, that the Prussian Count's
heart is. broken by our Princess' marriage'?  The idea' of a
Count presuming to link with royalty ! " The speaker was a
young woman, some three or four and twenty; judging from
her bright-colored gown, jaunty cap, and gay ribbons, one would
guess that the subject, in ifs general bearing upon matrimony,
was near to her heart. She held by the hand 'a little girl, the
richness of whose dress bespoke her a child of the nobility.
"Hush your silly ratingg" cried Dame Van Zandt.,. " A
cat can look at , a king ! Heaven knows, the angel Michael
himself would be none too good for our, beautiful Princess.
God bless her ! How well I remember an afternoon -now
nearly ten years ago-- shortly after I was first left a widow.
I had been hunting a situation all day, but as I had no letters
of recommendation, I found it hard work to get a place. Rob-
bie and I were dragging ourselves wearily along, just by the
Park here, and we had seated ourselves to rest near the gate
-- that very gate, you all see yonder. I was sobbing and cry-
ig, I felt so lonely and 'disheartened, when I heard Robbie
clap his little hands, and start up from my side, crying out with
delight to me, "look, mother, look!"  I hushed up, and
lifted my head; there was the royal coach, with the grand
horses, just as we see them now, only they drove six then;
they were a present from the Queen's father, the King of
France, so they said. The horses and carriage and coachman
were all glittering with their gold and silver trappings; it
would dazzle your very eyes to look long on them. In the car-
riage was King Leopold, looking gloomy and stern, as- he
always does; but he has a good heart, for all that, and it's
trouble makes him so. By his side, was the Queen Louisa,
with her soft, melancholy face, that made one sad to see; she
has gone to her rest now. Indeed, good soul, she had enough
to make her sorry, for you all know the King's heart, they
say, was in the grave with his first wife,-and the Queen knew
it too. But howbeit, it must not break off my story. They
had driven in from Lacken, which is the summer palace, you
know. Just on the front seat, like a ray.of sunshine, was the
little Princess Carlotta. I whispered. to Robbie, to clap hs-
hands loud as they passed, and the darling, rising on his poor
weary fet, did his best. The little Princess smiled, on him,

"

i


F

CROWN JEWELS.

,
t
f,

CR oWY JEWELS

13

such a sweet, bright smile, and, as the carriage whirled past,
threw out to him a bunch of shining red berries and green leaves,
- winter-green,---- that she held in her hand. I've got them to
this day, put away with poor dead Robbie's clothes, and never
look at them but I pray the blessed Virgin to watch over, and
keep from all danger, that precious angel child !"
The tears stood in the good dame's eyes, as she finished the
recital of her simple story of the past. She had gathered an
attentive, and appreciative audience around her, for how
eagerly do those who walk through life in the humbler ranks
listen to stories of royalty -- stories that to them seem almost
magical. Just as in our own America, tales. of the fairy god-
mother and enchanted princes are the dreams of childhood, from
hall to hovel, and are the foundations upon which poor real
Cinderellas build castles of future greatness.
"But, Dame, what was it, you were saying about the
Count?"
" Well, have patience, and I will tell you," said the Dame
with dignity. "The butler told me that our young ladies said
this morning at breakfast, that Count Hardenberg would not
carry so light a heart home to Berlin as he brought here ; that
the Princess' marriage would be a death-blow to his affections
-yes, 'to his affections:' those were the words. There were a
great many other things said," continued the Dame, as, lower-.
ing her voice significantly, she noticed the unsatisfied looks of
her listeners, "which I, being one of the family, do not feel at
liberty to repeat."
So the Dame's lips were sealed. She enveloped herself in a
mantle of wisdom, and silence, and the morbid curiosity she
had awakened in the minds of her hearers, in regard to the
" powers that be," died a violent death, and little she cared. . She
was the oracle of the Park, her situation as nurse in one of
the first families of the nobility giving her prestige of posi-
tion; and surely, no Pythoness or priestess ministering at the
Temple of Jupiter Ammon could be more profoundly mute or
fearfully mysterious than she, when in Dame Van Zandt's
judgment, the occasion required it.
"Dame Van Zandt thinks nobody knows anything 'but her-
self;" said the girl with the jaunty cap in a piqued tone. "My
Lady Alice, who goes to all the court balls, and sees the Prin-
cess and the court gentlemen as often as anybody does, says
that it is the Austriarn Count, that everybody thinks so hand-
some, that has fallen in love with the Princess.'"

12

jf
1

-s

"Well, perhaps you know, -perhaps you know,- Mademoi-
selle Rachel," said Dame Van Zandt, with an air of 'offended
dignity, as she noticed the triumphant glance of the speaker
at those around. "Ah ! there's the sunset bell! Come,! chil-
dren, we must be going."
Down, - down, like a monarch sinking to rest, with all the
glories of his celestial satellites clustering in a glittering crown
on his brow, the King of Day bade adieu to one hemisphere
only to reveal his rising splendors to another. The bells of St.
Ghudule ring out on the. quiet evening air, the hour of ves-
pers. Like incense, rising in scented aroma on the sacred
altars of ancient temples, from a thousand hearts, on land and
sea, go forth softly murmured prayers, and the sweetly flowing
strains of the "Ave Maria."    The restless Arab, bounding,
over the desert plain, at the last lingering smile of the day
turns his face to the Holy Mecca shrine, and, as in fancy he
hears the Muezzin's solemn call of " Alla Hu !" offers his even-
ing orisons in the faith of a true Osmanli.
"I love to steal awhile away
From every cumbering care,
And spend the hours of closing day
In silent, fervent prayer."
The gentle sentiment finds an echo in every heart, and is the
link which binds the absent, that time nor distance breaks
Friends parted, - "it may be for years, or it may be forever,"
with Alpine. heights looming up, or the broad sea rolling be-
tween, at this sacred hour, stand in soul together in the  res-
ence of the living God, and lay their evening spirit-sacrifice,
upon the same high altar.- St. Ghudule ! - How softly we
murmur the name, fearing lest we hush the faint echo that
fancy is chiming ; toning our voices, that we may not ut to
flight the white-winged birds of memory, which gleam o'er the
misty sea of years, that have rolled between the past, and the
present.
We are in the old' cathedral, gazing in wonderment on that
master-piece of genius - its pulpit.* Verbruggen has indeed
left a noble monument to his memory, in that work of his
hands; for into the carved wood, he has breathed a sermon
more eloquent in its silent warning, than those that come through
the voice of man. There, materialized, and embodied in tangi-
*gTeplptfthso l church in Brussels represents 4daar and ave ariveu by the


CROWN JEWELS.                15

14             CROW JEWELS.

ble form, we see the sin "that brought death into the world,
and all our woe;" we see the guilt of our first parents, and we
catch the words of the angel "Depart ye," as with uplifted
sword he waves them out of Paradise, and points to the desert
of the world, where now they must wander, with the curse of
transgression upon their hearts.
"Theworid was all before them where to choose
Their place of rest, and Providence their guide.
They, hand in hand, with wand'ring steps, and slow,
Through Eden took their solitary way."
Hover still with us birds of Fancy!   Show us the classic-
wood of Soignies, the deadly field of Waterloo, - the battle
plain that tells us --
"How in an hour the power which gave annuls
Its gifts, transferring fame, as fleeting too."
Softly the sunlight falls across the plain, and rests upon the
old Chateau ilougomont, whos echarred and blackened ruins
stand a monument to the brave men who fell in its defence, and
mark the spot where perished the flower of Napoleon's imperial
guard. Flit onward, heavenly bird, to beautiful Lacken, with
its deep-shadowed groves, its winding walks, and sequestered
dells, the home of royalty in the glad summer-time, and the
birth-place of the Princess Carlotta. The birds of fancy are
gone, and the sound of those silver-toned bells still floats on the'
evening air."
The soft chimes came to the Princess Carlotta, as she sat near
one of the great windows of the long drawing-room of the pal-
ace, gazing dreamily at the spires and steeples, whose forms, in
the misty twilight, were fading into hazy outline.. The young
Princess had awakened from the dream    of. youth.  She had
passed through the enchanted land of childhood and girlhood,
with its golden-hued atmosphere, plucking the flowers that grew
therein -roses, that had no thorns; had listened to the warb-
lings of birds, that had no discordant notes; had stopped beside
the fountain whose crystal waters contained no bitter drop.
Though a mother's hand had not led her there, yet tenderly, as
both father and mother, had King Leopold guided her, and pro--
tected her young heart from evil. But a vision had crossed
her path - a knight, clad in royal armor, had bade her "look
up " and in obeying, a voice, -the voice of her own heart,
whispered, "HKe must lead, and thou must follow." '
This evening, her young mind was borne by the lulling sounds

:

without, into the future, and as she sat watching the day depart,
a feeling somewhat akin to sadness crept into her heart. She
had, indeed, begun anew and fateful life. Two months before, a
letter and miniature of the Archduke Maximilian of Austria, of
the House of Hapsburg, had been placed in her hand, by Count
Victor Isolani, a young Tyrolese nobleman, and a friend of
Prince Maximilian.  Carlotta had seen the young prince at
her father's court some six months before, and this letter, which
contained a declaration of his love, was but an answer to the
song her own heart, in its secret chambers, had been chanting.
:.To-day, the special Ambassador Extraordinary, Count Arquinto,
from Austria, had made to her a formal offer of the hand of his
highness in marriage ; and she, in accepting, plighted him her,
troth, naming, at the Archduke's earnest solicitation, an early
day for the consummation of their vows. This evening had
been appointed, for a grand reception at the palace ; and as it
would probably be the last appearance of the Princess in public,
before her marriage, there was a touch of sadness in the thought,
that threw a half shadow over the bright picture of her future
joy. The Austrian ambassador and his suite, would leave im-
mediately for Vienna, and the days speeding quickly by, would,
before another moon, make her a bride.
Did the Princess tremble, and shrink from the new and
strange country, the far-reaching, unknown plains.of the world
through which her journey lay ?  No, no ! Had she not one to
lead her that would not forsake her, and though there might
be rough places and broken ways in the path, he would bear
her over in safety.
As Carlotta gazed upou the open, manly countenance, that
looked up into her eyes, from the miniature she held in her
hand, a smile of pleasure lighted up her soft, beauteous face;
but in a moment it died into an expression of subdued thought-
fulness, as often, "e'en as we are gazing," the golden fleecy
clouds of the morning, imperceptibly tone themselves into the
solemn tints of the deepening purple.
" He is very handsome !" exclaimed the Princess, "  and - of
his goodness and nobility I am convinced; but ah, me! that
cannot bring happiness to a loveless heart. Can I inspire in
him the devotion I am yearning for?" she murmured half audi-
bly. The tears stood in her soft, lustrous eyes, at the possibility
of the freshness of her young heart, that already warmed and.
thrilled with the thought of him, whose open faith was* hers.
Would the roses of love, that blossoming, gladdened her whole.


16

CROWN JEWELS

.
5
.j
i
,

CROWN JEWELS.

17

nature, be esteemed worthy of plucking, or would they be left
to wither, rudely crushed by one who, accepting the offer-
ing of another heart, had perhaps learned the pleasant song, and
woven the golden spell under the charm of tones, more silvery,
mayhap, than hers ? Did she trust his devoted promises? Ah!
there is the issue ! For take a woman's life, empress, princess,
or village maiden, and with those fateful words, "happy or
blighted love," the tale is fully told. Unhappiness is the same
in all the intricate windings of the world; and though the bur-
dening cross may be of gold, it does not weigh less heavy than
the deeply carved cypress wood. Sorrow drapes the chambers
of the soul in the same dark hangings, and though the dome of
the temple be gilded, and burnished, the mourner's humble
shrine looks up to the same heaven, through whose pearly gates
and over whose glittering streets, the dark companion of their
earthly pilgrimage shall not trail her gloomy robes, that in
their moving, give forth the sad, murmuring sound of weeping
and mourning.
" What ! my dear Princess in tears?"
It was the voice of ,her favorite friend and governess, the
Countess Vossburgh, who had entered the room unperceived,
and had stolen to the side of the Princess at the window.
Bending gently over her, she looked long and earnestly into
,her sweet face.
"Your last reception in Brussels, my darling ? Does that
solve the pearly enigma?  Tell me, have I guessed rightly,
Carlotta?"
The members of the royal family had gone out for an evening
drive, the Princess remaining at home on plea of slight indis-
position; the Countess. had remained with her, but a few
moments before, the Princess had left her chamber, and, unob-
served, found her way into the drawing-room, whither the
Countess followed her.
As she now tendered her sympathies-so gently as she was wont
to do, Carlotta placed her arm about her, and drooped her head
downward, until her long waving curls fell athwart the dark
hair of her friend.
" Ma Mignonne," said the Countess, gently, " you are young,
and it wrings your heart to go from your girlhood's home ; but
there are compensations for your sacrifice. Think what an alli-
ance has been made for you. One of the noblest sons of an il-
lustrious house, Archduke of Austria, Viceroy of Italy, young,
and handsome; and, if we may trust all we have heard of his

'

ii

many good qualities and generous nature, he is one to fill a
woman's heart."
i "I know, I know," said Carlotta, "it is not that, Countess.
Is it not a marriage of policy with- him? a hateful alliance
thrust upon him, and he comes to the altar an unwilling sacri-
Jice ?  I may be very childish and weak -perhaps it is unbe-
coming a princess to entertain such thoughts, but, as the event-
ful time comes near, I have a trembling feeling in my heart,
that perhaps I may not be able to win his love ; I have given
my whole nature to the dream; and if it should be rudely bro-
ken! "
"I know, my precious child," said the Countess, "all that.
fills your mind with vague, inexpressible fears; but I feel as.
sured they are groundless. Accord to the Archduke the same
tender emotions that you experience. Do not go to him, Car-
lotta, with a mind prone to doubt, and entertain misgivings.
Believe that he loves you, and you will be loved."
"Ah ! your old theory, Countess," said Carlotta, smiling
"that 'lote begets love.' For your sake, I will strive to ban-
ish all fear and all regret from my heart, keeping there as a fa-
vored guest only Hope. Do you remember, Countess, the little
verses I read to you written by the hapless Lady Jane Grey,
for the shedding of whose innocent blood the royal Mary can
never atone? you remember them
"'Invisible bright water, so like air,
On looking down, I fear'd thou could'st not bear
My little bark, of all light barks most light ;
And looked again, and drew me from the'sight,
And hanging back, breathed each fresh gale aghast,
And held the. bench, not togo on so fast.'
"The verses she composed while on a ;sailing excursion;
and to-night I found myself repeating this one o'er and o'er. I
feel as the Lady did: the stream' of Time is bearing me on too
fast. I am saying adieu to dear landmarks too often, and I
cling to what I know is true, and beautiful, and good; I fear
the mighty current of the world will wreck 'my little bark,
of all light barks most light.'"
"Your tender heart, my Princess," said the Counters
thoughtfully, "has as yet known but little of sorrow, has felt
naught of evil. But believe me, child, though you leave these
dearly cherished landmarks, God does not send thee into- the
new, untried paths, alone and defenceless. He takes thy hand;-
He gives thee truth, courage, and constancy as-companions; and

/

i

C
C  C
GJ
.'


CRO WN JEWELS.

CR OWY JEWELS.

t
i
y
3
F
k
_        q $
F
2

when thy spirit is faint, He whispers softly, lovingly, ' I will
not leave thee nor forsake thee.' But, child, hug to thy heart
this heavenly philosophy; learn to trust more ; a-doubting
spirit, Carlotta, is its own greatest enemy and tormentor.
Trust thy husband, and bind him to thee with hooks of steel.
Establish that perfect unity of purpose and confidence, which
is the sure and only basis of conjugal happiness; for even in
the high estate to which thou art called, the same general prin-
ciples apply as to a burgher's wife. Win the Archduke to thee
by gentle fancies; show him what is true, and high, and good in
woman's nature; and, as the stronger sex have always the
greater portion of the dross:of humanity, elevate whatever may
be found of earthliness in thy husband's mind; and pray to God,
-- fervently pray,-that in you both what is weak, He will
make strong!"-
The kind words of her preceptress fell upon the Princess's
listening ear, as dew upon the flowers.  Into her heart there
came an inbreathing strength, and she began to have faith in
herself and faith in God, that He would give her power to fill
the duties of her approaching station.  She would do her,
best, and more is not accorded unto mortal.
Rising from the seat by the window, with her eyes beaming
visibly, even in the dusky twilight which was gathering about
them, she exclaimed earnestly;-
" Countess, God being my helper, I will give to the Arch-
duke Maximilian all the happiness and joy that a true, loving
wife can bestow ! And in the long years of life, that we may
pass together, through sunshine and through shade, ever at his
side, I will be faithful found."
" God bless you, my child !" whispered the Countess, as she
tenderly kissed the Princess. " Come, now," she added in a
gayer tone, "a brighter smile to-night, your last for Cupid's
conquests in Brussels ! "
" Yes," answered'the Princess, "banish dull care to-night."
And she followed the Countess into the large, wide hall, hum-
ming, sotto voce, the beautiful air, "Parigi o' Cara."
The Protean face of Day has shown its last change ; the
slow-walking twilight has, in her dusky robes passed through
the city, and, as the misty shadow of her veil is lifted from the
blue ether, the stars creep out in the high dome above, until
the vaulted roof of heaven is thick inlaid with " patines of bright
gold," and in their midst the full-orbed moon " proclaims the Si-
lent reign of night."

The business streets of the city are lined with gay-looking,
brilliantly lighted show-windows, that display a confused, but
lovely variety of colors, arranged with an artist's skill, to attract
the attention of the myriads that hurry to and fro.
How the shadows come and go beneath the gaslight,-.- flitting
onward, leaving not a trace behind !
" They pass to toil, to strife, to rest ;
To halls in which the feast is spread;
To chambers where the funeral guest
In silence sit's beside the dead.
"Each where his tasks or pleasures call,
They pass, and heed each other not,
There is, who heeds, who holds them all
In His large love, and boundless though."
Onward they go, those that make up the "'ever-shifting
train," restless movers in a transitory world, wearing unwit-
tingly the invisible Symar of mortality: some to wander, per-
haps, before the day dawneth, from   the lowly haunts of vice
into the darker shades of Eternity, where their toilsome repent-
ance, Ixion-like, ever-beginning, shall never end; and others,
charity whispers, are forth on missions of love and mercy, that
shall gladden suffering hearts, whose humble dwellings are the
shrines upon the wayside of the heaven-bound, glory-seeking
traveller whg
,or, whereon he lays his "alms, and offers his obla-
In thelong drawing-room of the royal palace, the members
of the King's household, and the noble families of Brussels were
assembled to offer their congratulations to the bride elect. It
was a scene of festive beauty. The light from the grand chan-
deliers, rising in diminishing circles of brightness, glittered
through crystal pendents revealing their prismatic glories, and
~casting a halo over the splendid velvet furniture, and the an-
tique' carving of its dark walnut mounting.  The heavy damask
curtains, of a bright, crimson hue, almost crushed the' royal
laces over which they drooped; now and then, through their
half-parted folds showing 'the hidden recess of a bow window,
in which stood a couple of gilt chairs, or a cosy divan, invitingly
tempting young hearts to a quiet tite-d-tte.
On the right, a door ledinto the conservatory, and that, too,
was brilliantly illuminated, with colored lights, as was the cus-
tom on reception evenings! Collected together there were the
rarest exotics: azalia, fuschias, camelias, geraniums, nigh
booming jessamines,--.filling the air with sweetness; and the

1.8

19


,.
F

I
Ii
'i

20                ' CROWN JEWELS.
passing zephyr wafted a breath of perfume into the drawing-
room, as richly laden with fragrance as the breeze that steals
from the far-off isle of Ceylon to kiss the cheek of beauty on
the land.t
The Princess Carlotta, the "star of the evening," had in
truth banished all tears from her face, and cares from her heart.
Added to. her youthful beauty was an elegant manner, which,
though not less affable than usual, had in it a touch of softness,-
perhaps from. the memory'of her recent conversation, that
 made her unusually fascinating. The tender light that shone
in' her beautiful eyes, seemed to beam into the heart of the
gazer, and left there forever the remembrance of their liquid
brightness.
Carlotta seemed anxious to-night, her last as their "young
Princess," among her father's friends and her own, to wind
herself into their very heart of hearts, by her loveliness and
winning affability. - There was not an old Dowager Duchess
of near half a century in years, but she had for her some pleas-
ant greeting or well-timed compliment.; and the praises of the
"charming Princess" "the lovely Princess," were echoed with
sincerity from hearts, that she had disarmed of envy.
King Leopold himself, the modern Pylian sage, relaxed .his
gloomy bearing, and a brightness as of' the sun shining through
clouds was visible upon his stern, iron-cast features. Re united
with his daughter in sparing no exertion for the agreeable enter-
tainment of their guests. And there, too, was the young Duke
de Brabant, as the eldest son, heir-apparent to the throne, and
his only brother, Count de Flandre, in the uniform of the com-
mander of the regiment of Guides, both favorites with the good
people :of Brussels. And conspicuous among the guests was
the Austrian ambassador, Count Arquinto, and his attaches,
who were regarded with jealous eyes, as they came to make
Austria's gain Belgium's loss. Pleasantly the hours passed
until the time of departure came. At last the adieu of the
latest lingerer had been made, and the long state apartments
Were deserted.
The Austrian ambassador, and the members of his suite, upon
their arrival in Brussels, had been received as royal guests, and
had been assigned to the apartments adjoining the drawing-room.
All was silence throughout the palace. The lights were
burning dimly in the hall, as it was the custom to leave them
unextinguished through the night on the lower floor.
After reaching her own room, the Princess 'Carlotta remem-

bered a book of drawings, sketches of her own, from the palace
of Lacken, her birthplace, and the environs of the city, which
she had left on the mantle in the drawing-room. She was anx-
ious to take them with her to Austria, and .fearing she might
forget to remove them on the morrow, she determined to go for
them herself at once, and by putting them carefully away en-
sure their safety. Not wishing to disturb 'her governess, who
.occupied the chamber adjoining her, own, and who had retired
much fatigued, Carlotta noiselessly opened the door and went
out. Stealing down the marble staircase, and through the hall,
she softly entered the drawing-room, and going to the huge
mantle with its sculptured Caryatides, bearing aloft their burden
of handsome Bolognese vases and various articles of virtu, she
found the drawings, where she remembered to have left them.
Turning from the mantle, she trod lightly over the soft velvet
carpeting. There was 'the air of inexpressible sadness that ever
pervades an apartment' after a festive gathering is ended, and
beauty, joy, and youth departed. The solemn, unbroken still-
ness that hung over everything was almost oppressive.
Involuntarily, the Princess paused, and waited near the harp
which stood in one of the recesses of a window, and was half
hidden by the voluminous folds of the curtain.
The beating of her own heart,
Was all the sound she heard."
Half audibly, Carlotta murmured,
"I feel like one who treads alone
somne bganqueha deserted
SmbaqehaldsreWhose lights are fled, whose garlands dead,
And all but he, departed."
"And all but he, departed!"
The words were echoed softly near her. The Princess
started, and was about hurrying from the room leaving the
mysterious echo undiscovered, when, a glance through the lace
curtains, revealed the form of Count Isolani, the young nobleman,
who, one month before, had borne to her the Archduke Maxi-
milian's first message of love. He stood by the open window,
through which peered in the twinkling midnight watchers.
"Princess Carlotta !" said he, coming forward, "I crave
your pardon for again intruding upon your presence! I can
only pead a weak, idolzg heart, that cannot be stilled at the
fotalof the one to whom it yields sole .allegiance !"

4

CRO.WV, JEWELS.

21

11

1'


CR0 W  JEWELS.

r
[f
F
L.          Y

" Count Isolani? again!" said the Princess disapprovingly ;
"do you again address me in such terms ? That heart mustbe
weak, indeed, that can let the passing fancy of a day, as it were,
so quickly obliterate the remembrance of his duty to his friend."
"Ah, Princess! your words are true," replied the Count;
" but there is no master for Love ; it recognizes faith to nei-
ther friend nor foe; there are no obstacles too great for it to
surmount, no links too strong for it to break, aye, though it be
over mountains of ice or through rivers of blood, true Love
defies all to keep it from the object of its affection ! Hear me,
Princess Carlotta !" he continued passionately. " When first
I saw you in all the beauty of youth, the spirit within me fell
down and worshipped. I forgot all, save that I loved, and
that it was hopeless ! And yet I dared, when last I met you here
at the Palace, to giveit voice; and though my Divinity accords
no reward; not one gracious smile, yet it does not in the least
still the heart's fervor; and a happy chance has again afforded
me the opportunity, of pouring out at your feet, the devoted love
of a man's soul!1"
His tones were full of earnest impassioned feeling, and as the
dim light from the chandelier fell on his tall figure in the em-
broidered uniform of an Austrian naval officer, there was a man.
liness about his person, a glow upon his handsome face, that would
have made his appeal almost irresistible to a maiden's heart.
" Count Isolani! " said the Princess, bending her dark eyes
full upon him, "I had hoped that when I met you again, I
could grasp your hand with the respect due to a friend and
companion of the Archduke Maximilian. My vows to him,
and my plighted troth, alike forbid me to listen to such avowals
as you have presumed to make since you have been in Brussels.
I must insist, to-night, upon your sparing me the renewal of
your declarations. I would not wound you, Count Isolani, but
my womanly pride, nay, my tenacity of aught that would affect
Austria'shonor or one of her subjects, bids me stay you from
expressions that I know you regret in moments of reflection."
Count Isolani gazed upon her in silent admiration.
" Princess ! " he exclaimed, bending on his knee before her,
"let me bow in homage at the shrine of Truth and Fidelity.
Know, that I am as suspicious of a breath upon the honor, which
bears so fair a name, as a woman of her spotless purity, and
innocence, and I must dissipate the mist that envelops my
actions, and seems so freely to falsify my words. As you have
heard before, and perhaps, have since wondered to believe, the

noble Archduke Maximilian and myself have been as brothers
since our youth. Thrown often together at Vienna, where I
was sent to be educated, the bond of friendship formed' there,
was cemented more strongly, when, afterwards, each joined the
navy at Trieste. Together we breasted stormy seas traveled
through Greece and Italy, and trod the burning deserts of the
East. His bosom held no thought that I was not permitted to
share, and my own heart's. dearest feelings were known unto
him.
"Upon the Archduke's return to Vienna, after his visits to
France, England, andBelgium,-during which period, Iremained
at Trieste,-J discovered that a change had come over the spirit
of his dreams.' The wild joyousness of his nature had been
softened, and there was no longer the incredulous jest, or laugh,
at the influence of the tender passion on the heart. The truth
came out at last; from his own lips, I heard it: he had seen the
Princess Carlotta, and he loved her! The image of yourself
so filled his heart with an exalted admiration, that he dared not
trust. himself to hope that he might inspire in you a similar
feeling, and his noble nature would scorn to accept the hand
of an unloving bride. At his request, I came to Brussels, bear-
ing his declaration of love to you by private letter and also a
letter to your august father. The Archduke exacted of me a
most unusual promise before I left Austria, which I confess it
has embarrassed me no little to fulfil: that if you seemed to
yield favor to his suit, I would, if possible, test your heart
and discover its true beatings. I have perfornied my task, and
I trust, Princess, now stand before you, faithful in heart and soul
to my noble friend. It is enough,--reward sufficient-that I bear
to the Archduke the tidings that he yearns to hear, that the
Princess Carlotta has no thought .for other love ; that her soul
is filled with one image, and that, his own ! And now in the
name of Austria, in whose service my father and forefathers
lived and died, and whose example, I have the honor of follow-
ing, I bid you welcome ! First, to the heart of the Archduke
Maximilian, who is waning to woo you with sweetest strains
of love ; then, to the heart of the royal family of Hapsburg-
and last, though not least, to the great throbbing heart of the
Austrian people, who, chanting their epithalamiums of joy,
will make your bridal path of blooming roses and flowery
garlands! "
The Princess had listened with half-averted head, while
Count Isolani spoke: a glad, happy smile stole over her face,~

22

CEO WN JEWELS.

23


CROWN JEWELS.

I

a
,j

and as he finished, she extended her white hand, on which the
jewelled diamonds glittered, and in a voice tremulous with
emotion, exclaimed:
"Count Isolani, your hand !  Since we stand revealed, let
my own heart, in its truth speak for me ! If there has been
aught in my words, during your stay in'Brussels, that may have
fallen harshly upon the ear of one of Austria's noblest sons,
you will forget, and forgive it ! Most deeply do I feel the
delicate kindness conveyed in your last words, and sincerely
do I thank you. In future, I congratulate the Archduke upon
the possession of such a friend ! Count Isolani, I bid you
good-night !"
With a graceful inclination of her person, the Princess left
the room. As her retreating footsteps sounded softly along
the marble hall, and at last died away, the Count turned to seek
the apartments assigned to him, as an attach of the ambassa-
dor. Just before him on the carpet, lay a light gossamer fabric,
the Princess' handkerchief. He stooped, and raising it, he ex-
claimed, "A tribute for the Archduke ! Purity, Innocence,
Truth ! let the Princess Carlotta represent thee !" Bearing the
lacy web in his hand he left the drawing-room.
And the Princess?
Her heart filled with ecstasy, and thrilling with delight,
she reached her own chamber, where, kneeling before a tiny
gold crucifix that stood on a little altar, in a recess of the
apartment, she poured, out her heart to that God who hears
alike His children's joys and sorrows.,
"Help me, 0, Most High .God! help me, a weak and
feeble maiden, that is about to take upon herself holy vows,
on which Thouhast placed Thy blessing, - help me to con..
scientiously and with true spirit fulfil them !  And 0! Most
Holy Virgin who hast thyself known human love, help me to
keep the heart and the faith of the one who hast given me hish
happiness in charge ; help me to keep his faith, his love, his
vows ever fresh, unbroken, and true !"
"Thou pure, spotless lily !  Right well may thy prayers
fence thee about, and guard thee from danger ! "

CROW  JEWELS.                    25
CHAPTER IL
JHE morning sun of July 6th, 1832, that -sent its
beams over the towers and steeples of Vienna, bath-
ej ing in golden light the green sward about the beauti-
ful palace of Sch  brunn, tipping with brightness the
leaves of the gigantic elms through whose branches the summer
breeze played i htly to and fro; heralded the natal day of
Ferdinand Max'milian Joseph, Archduke of Austria, second
son of Francis Charles, (brother to the then reigning Emperor
Ferdinand), and likewise grandson, but two degrees removed
from the famous Maria Theresa, once Empress of Austria,
whose renown fills so large a 'part of the history of the past
century.
Awaking to an earth-life in the same suburban palace, where
for years the Princes of the House of Hapsburg had first Been
the light, the royal infant was received with shouts of joy and
gratulation, and demonstrative manifestations of pleasure, by
the loyal Viennese, whose ancestors had bequeathed to them
the precious heritage of German citizenship, and with it
had made them part owners, of the noble line of princes,
which from this Hapsburg House had given to Germany four-
teen emperors, and to Spain six kings.
The childhood of the little Archduke passed as that free, un-
restrained period ever does, whether in court or cottage. Upon
the childish heart there were no weighty burdening cares of
state; there was nothing to bow down his spirit, nothing to
dash hisjoyous glee. He knew naught of the danger, that
threatening the bulwarks of German liberty, might- shake the
throne of his ancestors. His brother, Francis Joseph, two
years his senior, and two brothers younger, were the companions
of his infantile sports-; and as they all grew upward in the
scale of being, and reached the dignity of alphabetical aspirants,
they were also the sharers of his studies.
*Years passed on, and the boy began to throw aside the care-

2A4


t
t ' iu
i
L
;+ .
1
F
,
Y
V
i+

CRO WN JEWELS.

lessness of childhood, and later still, the youth was absorbed in
the promise of the man. The young Maximilian unfolded new
leaves in the book of Life ; displayed traits of character, and
peculiarities of disposition, which gave him a distinctive ex-
istence from his companions,,the young nobility at Vienna, and
almost made him one apart. There was lacking none of that
dashing spirit, and loving generosity in their games, which, in
every merry gathering nade him the favored one, around whom
all clustered with affection, proclaiming him universally their
leader ; but there was beneath the gladsome, light exterior, a
deep, noble heart, an under-current, proceeding from a fountain
of will, which, though sending forth in the boy only a tiny rivulet,
jts existence revealed now and then by the bubbling laugh of
scorn with which it dashed over the obstacles in its way,
was widening and deepening, till in the soul of the man
all hopes, loves, and destinies rpsting upon its bosom would be
borne along in its resistless sweep.
As he approached the last stages of youth,- and his mind,
coming upward with his manly stature, was leaving behind,
or rather rolling up, on the palimpsest of his brain the simple
facts and unvarnished principles of natural and practical knowl-
edge ; as he deepened the impress, and again upon the same
brain parchment, inscribed the gleanings of older years, the.
young Prince, following the thread given by the prescribed
course of study, searching himself into the classical beautiesof
antiquity, and again gathering up the shining, polished gems of
modern literature, began to .see and feel that there are' "more
things in heaven and earth " than are dreamt- of in the common
philosophy of this day-darg life ; and there came into his mind
.the deep, soul-penetrating and soul-elevating purposes of a
man ; a contempt for the gayeties and frivolities of a desolate
city, and a strong aversion to those who followed after idols
which their own hands had in folly fashioned, aye, contempt for
those who, calling themselves the nobility of the land, when
asked for a manly proof of claim to that title, could not point
to a single pure, and unselfish aim, a single high or God-like
action, a single charity -"a cup of cold water "-even, to
the least of those who, day after day, touched the hem of their
garments ;. but instead, veiled their faces as if to disown the
blackened record, where Truth, with unerring finger, had traced
the mournful chronicle of a life, whose beautiful spring-time,
-with its treasures of hope, as peeping violets and bursting buds
had been blasted by the Sirocco breath of the world ; a chron-

26

W

iII

CR0WV JEWELS.                      27
icle that told of a weak spirit, with no power within, to keep
the soul pure and unspotted, amid all the dust and decay
through which the man must tread.
Too young, according to European regime to be of assist-
ance to Germany in the Revolutionary storm of 1848 and 1849
when France touched the spark and all Europe felt the shock,
Maximilian left Vienna for Trieste, and at the early age of
sixteen joined the Austrian navy. He could not have chosen
a profession better suited to his nature ; the yearning of his
heart for, the wild dash of old Ocean's waves was satisfied, and
he gave his whole being up to the free, adventuresome life of a
seaman. His spirit chafed under the ordinary restraints of
court life, was restless and moody under surveillance. He
knew and felt that he could not be measured by the straight,
right-angled standard which regulated the conduct of those, his
own age, for in his heart there were strong fancies and wild
dreams that kept him in a world of his own making, and to
the Eden spots of this heart-garden but few were admitted.
There was one, - Count Victor Isolani-a youth like himself
who, though born at Innsbriick, in the Tyrol, was educated at
Vienna; and thrown often with the Archduke, came to be in
very truth, a friend of his soul. Together they left Vienna
and went to. Trieste, and there, under Admiral Thomas Zermann,
began the drilling in nautical tactics which would prepare
them each for honorable positions in the navy of the Austrian
empire.
The storm of 1848 came, and the thrones of Europe were
shaken to their very base. "Facts and events have attested
the truth of M. Guizot's words, that no principle spreads
over the European continent, until it is first naturalized in
France." That changeful country is indeed the foster-mother
of all revolutionary theories ; and in this political convulsion,.
which threatened to overthrow monarchical rule, it was in
the Gallic land that the cry first arose, "Vive 16 R6publique!
down with royalty, and Louis Philippe,!"
The last of the Bourbons left his palace to the insurgents,
and fled from his kingdom, where all was confusion and dis-
order. France was not alone. The echo of her stirring words,
was heard in Italy and Germany. Like an electric spark it
thrilled all hearts as it went ; touching at Milan, it passed into
Hungary, and then, taking a tangent, was felt in England and
Scotland, and again, in ricochet movement, struck at Vienna.
Ia the Autrian capital, where royalty had had its home for


28               CROWN JEWELS.

CR0 WY JEWELS.           - 29

unnumbered years, the people rose up, and madly cried out for
" Liberty, Equality, and Brotherhood!"
Concessions were made,; prime ministers who were odious to
the people resigned; freedom of the press, and general political
amnesty was proclaimed, not only in Austria, but in Prussia.
Still the people were not satisfied, but cried, "More humbling
of royalty !" In the meantime the Italian provinces deter-
mined to throw off the German yoke, and lent their aid to
increase the trouble and embarrassment of Austria. A par-
liament was called to meet at Frankfort, to make a new and
liberal constitution for Germany; but such was the condition
of affairs at Vienna, that on the day of its meeting the Emperor
Ferdinand of Austria left his capital, to seek greater safety at
Innsbriick. Later in the same year, the Hungarians were de-
clared to be in revolt against Austria, contending for a free
constitution. Prince Windischgratz marched against Vienna,
and after bombarding .and storming the city, it fell into his
possession.  The following month, November, 1848, the Aus-
trian Diet was convened at ,Kremsier, in Moravia, " to proceed
with the work of perfecting the constitution;" and' it was at
this juncture that Ferdinand abdicated in favor of his nephew,
Francis Joseph, whom he proclai-med Emperor of Austria.
When the Imperial mantle was placed upon his shoulders,
the Archduke was but nineteen years of age, - a mere youth,
surrounded by turbulent Officials and bureaucratic politicians.
A daring, Photon-like undertaking for such unskilled hands.
But Francis Joseph, with the down yet upon his chin, and the
dew of youth upon his cheek, grasped the reins of government,
not weakly, or tremblingly, but with firmness, and determina-
tion, resolved, that the glory and power belonging to the House
of Hapsburg, entrusted now to his keeping, should not perish
at the bidding of these reckless revolutionists. After proclaim-
ing a liberal constitution, as his inauguration gift to his people,
by the exercise of a masterly policy, the young Emperor secured
the favorable suffrages of Russia, whose timely assistance en-
abled Austria to subdue not only Hungary, but also the prov-
inces of Italy, who were compelled to yield allegiance to
German rule.
So the revolutionary storm  in Europe was lulled    to
rest, and the waves of peace rolled on again. In Austria,
the reaction, as we have seen, was in favor of ;oyalty ;
but in France it was different. There, the people wate: tri-
umphant, and the strong hand to seize the reins was found in

the young nephew of the great Corsican soldier. Not in vain
had Louis Napoleon mingled with the calm, self-possessed
statesmen of England; not in vain, had he devoted so many
years to the study of men and events; he knew that his labor
would be rewarded; for now, when France, sated with the
blood of her own children, looked wildly here and there,
for a heart strong enough to face her, it was his voice, the
voice of a .Bonaparte that called out, " I will be your leader !"
and France, recognizing the accents of. determination, had
echoed in return, "Long live our Emperor ! Long live Louis
Napoleon!
And so, in France, too, the Revolution ended. . Revolution !
Word 'big with meaning! It tells of governments pulled
down, thrones- overturned, guillotines and scaffolds reeking
with blood, mad riots, and insane shouts from hearts fevered
with fanatical excitement. As such, Europe greets the ambig-
uous sound. And yet the same word that calls up scenes of
anarchy and strife on one continent, on the other is the key-
note to the song of liberty ; the basis of American national
History. But treacherous everywhere, in later years it has
failed a struggling people. Brave men, who claimed prestige
and example from their forefathers, the heroes of '76, look in
vain to see their deeds of daring chronicled upon the historic
page, as belonging to the "Revolution of '61."  They read
in bitterness the words that seem to stand out fiom the. sheet,
and taunt and hiss them in their grief. " The Rebellion in the
South is ended !"
.    .   .    .    .    .    0   .    .    0    0
While Europe was thus pulling down and building up govern-
ments, the Archduke Maximilan, with no active duties to per-
form, had left Trieste, and had set out for a cruise in the Medi-
terranean, with the intention of visiting the lands of which
he had dreamed from his earliest childhood.
Leaving behind him, the dusty tomes of classical scholars,
turning from the hapless adventures of the unfortunate Ulysses,
King of Ithaca, the Archduke began to- seek adventures of
his own--began to live in earnest, and to feel within his soul
the appeals for a high destiny in the future. This voyage, this
journeying through ancient lands, whose men of might had once
ruled the world, was to Maximilian a preparation of heart and
soul; for, though young, already within him, lived the deter-
ination to be a "hero in the strife." Nature had given him

r
6
E
P
E

II


30

CRoWN JEWELS.

a strong, brave heart, a keen discrimination between right
and wrong, a conscientious honor that bade him reject all save
what was good and true. So panoplied, and armed, he pushed
off from the Fatherland, and began his trial-trip on the voyage
of life. May his vessel prove seaworthy !
Count Victor Isolani, near his own age, a youth of noble
parentage and noble nature, was the companion and confidant
of the Archduke's hopes and fears.. To him, in wild enthusi-
asm as they would stand at night upon the deck of their vessel,
watching the play of the blue waters under the calm starlight,
Maximilian would unfold the secret thoughts of his heart, the
lofty ambition that dwelt within, and together they would
dream of the lofty paths that, Faith stretched out for them in
the future._. " The future, Isolani ! the future !" cried the Arch-
duke one night as they occupied their usual positions on the
bow of the vessel, " Thank God for the future !"
" Amen," we say. Give us the future, that, with no part or
being in the unpropitious present, never in coldness answers
"Nay " to our pleadings ; never throws forward the fetters she
holds to bind us, but bids us "look up," and. peer through the
mist that hangs about us, and see our destiny. Only a smil-
ing face it is,  one beautiful hand waving us onward, the other,
holding aloft a glittering crown, whereon in golden letters
we read our own name. Through the distance comes the soft
whisper, "Earth-child, toil on, hope on, this is thy reward !"
Upward we mount in our striving, and as we come nearer,
nearer, -- higher, and still more high, rises the jeweled coronet.
" You cannot reach it," says the cold voice of the Present at our
side. " It will be thine, child, if thou art faithful ;" we hear
the same sweet tones, coming from above. The strong heart
faints not, but believing that loving promise, is drawn up-
ward, upward,-till at last, leaving the earth behind, the mist
dissolves, and purified, sanctified, passing the boundaries that
shut in the kingdom, the earth-child is found worthy to be
crowned, in the presence of the " Cherubim and Seraphim."
So, even in his youth, did this vision haunt the mind of the
Archduke Maximilian, and the dream of future greatness
filling his soul, he began his toiling for the reward that Faith
promises.
As the Roman youth made pilgrimages to Greece and
Athens, the Mecca of classic students, thither did the Archduke
1and his companion direct their course.

CROW TJEWELS.

31

"Clime of the unforgotten brave !
Whose land, from plain to mountain cave,
was Freedom's home or glory'sgrave I
Ancient of days 1 august Athena !
Where are thy men of might ? thy grand in soul?
The warrior's weapon, and the sophist's stole,
Are sought in vain ; and o'er each mouldering tower,
Dim with the mist of years, gray flits the shade of powerI "
A  people, a country, belonging to the past !    Once the
"fountain of light, of civilization, of truth and beauty, to all
mankind; once the beating heart and thinking head of the
whole world 1"  Now, their greatness, their national pride, their
ancient glory, naught save cosmopolitan antiquities!. And
yet, consecrated, and holy, by the sacred memories of former
elevation and former power, the heart is touched with deep
reverence when standing beside a nation's sepulchre, and in
soft-musing, Fancy hears again the "golden shell" of Orpheus,
murmuring in the waters that lave the ancient shores; and
the echoes of'his magic harp, come like the soft music of an
Eolian strain, and linger in the green temples "of the gods."
With sacred tread and appreciative heart, the Archduke
Maximilian and Count Isolani began their dreamy wanderings.
They entered the shades of Olympus, ascended the mighty
slope to where it lifts its snow-crowned head in colossal mag-
nificence amid the clouds.
They stood in silence; and Maximilian sent his spirit forth
to range over the scene that opened around, and before them.
" The Earth, with its scarred face, seemed the symbol of the
Past ; the air and heaven alone told of Futurity," and they
the living' present, stood between.
There, as- rival peaks, in solitary grandeur, were Pelion
and Ossa, celebrated in "god-like warfare."  Turning the eye
downward, was the vale     of Tempe, .overhung with deep,
solemn shadows, awfully impressive in the quietude that pro-
claims it the abode of gloom and darkness. Here, upon Olym-
pus, had been the seat of the gods ; here, they had decided the
events of the earth ; and the enlightened Christian, standing
upon the spot from whence Jupiter hurled his thunderbolts
Upon the nations below, experiences a reverence, akin to that
with which the ancient Greek regarded this Council Cham-
ber -- a place "so hallowed, that neither wind nor rain dared
to invade its precincts, where the storm passed, and the light-
ning went over, bereft of their scathing, blasting power," and
vested with an atmosphere so pure and holy, that no shadowy
cloud e'er obscures the brightness of the lumitious air. Againi,


32              CROWN JEWELS.

upon the- summit of the Acropolis, where once stood the
ancient citadel, the Archduke and Count Isolani paused and
lingered amid the ruins of the Parthenon, the. magnificent struc-
ture which, as their Palladium of safety, the home of their
Virgin protectress, it had been the pride and delight of the
Athenians to adorn.-
" Do you remember, Isolani," said Maximilian, after gazing
for some time at the mournful scene around - broken pillars,
fallen arches, and crumbling stones - all that was left to tell of
Minerva's temple; "do you remember the wonder and enthu-
siasm with which we read of the honor and glory of this great
city, as it was in the time of Pericles ! to whom Athens was
indebted for edifices that should have remained eternal monu-
ments of greatness ?  But alas ! how different now !  Could
the spirits of her departed kings, artists, and architects, who
devoted their lives to her service, look.now upon the fruit of
their labor, could they not speak with the tongues of the angels
the same mournful truth : ' All that is earthly, fadeth away '
" Yes," said Count Isolani, "they are gone ! the glory of
Greece has passed away ! This is Athens ! the cradle of
Poetry and of Art.; Athens, that brought forth men and works
that have delighted the world, while the genius of Persian and
Indian monarchies was locked in lethargic * slumber. Think,
your Highness," continued the Count, ' what a temple of time,
high-reaching as heaven itself, might be reared of the moul-
dering bones of Grecian patriots, orators, statesmen, and frail
men and women -for humanity is ever the same --- who lived
and died in this great city, and a task for the mightiest genius
it would be to write upon its dome fit inscription! Yes ! we
stand upon the same dust where, a thousand years ago, stood
Plato, and Socrates, Phidias, Praxiteles, Alcmenes, and a
thousand others, who, filled with good and ambitious feelings,
looked upon the Temple of Minerva, that crowned,this summit,
trusting it would live, till 'Time should be no more.' They,
too, have passed, but, from their tombs - the tombs of the de-
parted brave, - there comes d voice as of desolation, proclaim-
ing in sepulchral tones, ' Sic transit gloria mundi !' and as it
softens into dying echoes, a human sigh, a sigh from our own
hearts breathes an answer more requiem-like still,-
'TisGreece, but living Greece no more !,,,
"Isolani ! God bless you, God bless you ! You are a true

CROWN JEWELS.

33

improvisator !  It is the spirit of. the Tyrol, so poetic and
deep, lingering in your heart," cried the Archduke in enthu-
siasm. "But the sweep of Time is ever onward. Call back
your fancy from the misty Past, and send it forth into the
Future. Tell us of what is- to come!"
" Looking down," said Count Isolani, " far into the dim shad-
ows that unite to veil the centuries that are to be, we see our
own generation passed away ; another, and another has come and
gone; until we, now the enlightened ones of the earth, are
classed among the ancients.. Philosophy' stands by the tomb
of the nineteenth century, and from the destinies of its chil-
dren draws lessons of moral inspiration for youths whose hearts
beat with the same celestial, heavenly fire that now warms our
own,-
"'nfathoiable sea I whose wavesoare years,
Ocean of Time, whose waters of deep woe
Are brackish with the salt of human tears I
Thouhoreess flood, which in thy ebb and flow
Claspest the limits of mortality!I
And sick of prey, yet howling on for more,
Vomitest thy wrecks on its inhospitable shore:
Treacherous in calm, and terrible in storm,
Who shall put forth on thee,
Unfathomable sea?'"
"Who - who shall be wrecked, Isolani? and who shall reach
the haven in safety 'at last?  The vessel may be well built and
strong, the pilot faithful and true, and yet it cannot stand
the wrath and the pitiless fury of the Ocean's waves. See
what it is to be conquered ! Greece was conquered, and so
passed away her glory. The hand of the iconoclast hath not
spared her idols. The Turk, the Venetian, the Briton have
touched the sacred vessels of her altars, and their museums
boast of the spoils. No country in the annals of the world
produced more illustrious med. in 'the same length of time';
and yet with rulers, statesmen, warriors, a people filled with a
high ideal of political independence and patriotic .spirit, Greece
was not strong enough to stand. Shall that Utopian, adamantine
government be ever found, which will be able to bear "up
against the weight of its own greatness ?  Is Liberty to be ever
surrounded by secret or open enemies, who are plotting her
ruin ? Is there no bond of union, can there be found no'sys-
tem of laws, which shall make the general good, the individual
good?"
" Is there infallibility to be found in the earth ?" said Count
Isolani. " Time and history teach us, that ambition and ava-


CROW JEWELS.                35

34               CROWN JEWELS.

rice, the love of power and the love of gold, are Liberty's great-
est enemies; and until the secret, selfish passions of men, their
unlawful desire for personal elevation - until these, are rooted
out of men's hearts, we may not look for enduring institutions
upon the earth. If. the fault is not with the ruler, the people
will find some plausible pretext for falling into the ever-rolling
current of change, and if the people are true and .oyal, there
will be found an iron hand to teach them to rebel against
oppression."~
pIt seems to me," said the Archduke, as he and his compan-
ion descended the slope of the Acropolis, and began to make
their way back to the ancient city, "that if the destinies of a
people were given to my keeping, I would lend my life to the
task of forming a connecting link between myself and that peo-
ple, so close, so intimate, that a stab in the heart of the one,
should be felt in all its force, in that of the other."
" And yet," said Count Isolani, " in the world, the true, devot.
ed heart is oftenest least understood, and least appreciated,
and oft times pays for its sacrifice as poor Socrates did, and
receives only a death-warrant as token of gratitude from those
to whom it had given its all."
.0              .    .    .    S        .* .  .
The Archduke and his companion lingered long upon a soil
which to them was not degraded, though fallen, and these
long strolls through groves eloquent with the voice of poesy,
and of romance, had a wild, unearthly charm. It was an ideal
life, that suited well the temperament of each, and they dreaded
to say "Adieu," for each had caught the poet's ardor -
"Cold is the heart, fair Greece ! that looks on thee,
Nor feels as lovers o'er the dust they loved !"
But at last, their bark floated over the Mediterannean, the
ancient shores glimmered, and faded in the distance, and the
gentle winds wafted them to Italy. And in Rome they began
again their studies. In Rome ! Not the seat of Papal power,
but Rome the Imperial Mistress, the City of the Cesars.
Indulging in the vein of romance, which was his strong
characteristic in youth, Maximilian desired not to destroy the
illusion that hung over the ancient city, by noting and feeling
the modern changes; but preferred to view it through the
misty glamour of centuries. Though he yielded obedience to,
and sought the blessing of, the Hioly Father, yet he lingered
not so' miich about the Vatican, with its treasures of modern

art, as amid the crumbling ruins, of ancient palaces and tem-
ples.
"Cypress and ivy, weed and wall-flower grown,
Matted and massed together ; hillocks heaped
on what were chambers, arch crush'd columns strown
In fragments, chok'd up vaults, and frescos steep'd.
In subterrannean damps, where the owl peep'd
Deeming it midnight; temples, baths, or halls?
Pronounce who can; for all that learning reap'd
From her research hath been, that these are walls-
Behold the Imperial MountI. 'tis thus the mighty falls."
The poet's picture spake truth.     Of the forum, the gather-
ing-place where orators harangued a stately people -      what is
there, that has escaped the remorseless clutch of' time? Cast-
ing the eye over the space it occupied between the Capitoline
and Palatine hills, the beholder sees here, a falling pillar, there,'
a broken arch, again a crumbling wall, and over all is brood-
ing, a spirit of desolation. The palaces which saw the rival-
ries, jealousies, loves, and nuptials of Roman emperors have
shared the common fate. Even great Cesar's name has naught
to tell of its former power. The Senate Chamber where the
mighty conqueror fell, though consecrated by heroic blood-it,
too has passed away.
Aye, stricken by Time, pulseless and palsied, with all her
sleeping dead gathered to her bosom, with all her deeds of
greatness and her many crimes resting upon her memory,
Rome shall waken never again at the bidding of man; the day
of her glory has fled.
Leaving Italy, Spain, with its Andalusian, Arragonese and
Castilian peasantry, claimed attention from the travellers.
Granada, living in song, filled with poetic souvenirs, with the
Moorish palace of the Alhambra fraught with interest to all,
had a double claim upon the Archduke, since here had been at
one time, the home of his ancestor the great Charles the Fifth.
The Alhambra was not alone eloquent with memories of the
unfortunate Abencerrages, whose blood-stain is still upon the
marble hall, and whose death was amply avenged in the down-
fall of the: proud Boabdil, when in humility he yielded to
another, and left the country where he had reigned a king ; as
we are told in Moorish song,
"There was crying in Granada when the sun was going down,
Some calling on the Trinity, some calling on Mahoun.
Here passed away the Koran -there in the Cross was borne,
And here was heard the Christian bell, and there the Moorish horn."
-the Saloon of Comnares, the Foun4ta1In of Lions, the Oham-


36              CROWN JEWELS.

ber of Justice, the Hall of the Abencerrages -" familiar
names, with old associations, that cling like cobwebs to the
crumbling walls of the Alhambra, and, come up in succession
to the gazer, softly and timidly, as lightly treading, fairy-footed
day-dreams," these did not touch the heart of the Austrian
prince- so deeply, and had not the charm for his soul, which
invested the apartments where Charles the Great had dwelt
with his unhappy mother, Queen Joan, whose mind, worn with
grief at the loss of her husband, Philip the Handsome, cen-
tred on her son.
The ambitious heart of Prince Maximilian was stirred to
its depths, as he remembered the greatness of the monarch,
who united in himself the crowns of Germany, and of Spain.
And the blood of this hero flowed in his veins ! Then en-
tered the soul of the Prince a fixed purpose, that, though he
might never sit upon a throne, he would in the world make for
himself a high destiny. His days should not be passed in in-
glorious ease. He would prove himself a worthy descendant
of his illustrious Spanish ancestor. Yes, he, Maximilian,
would add- another leaf to the crown of glory worn by the
House of Hapsburg..
The Archduke and Count Isolani bade Spain too, adieu, and
again found themselves entering, after their long voyage and
pilgrimage, the well-known harbor at Trieste, to resume their
positions in the navy.
The Archduke lent himself with good-will to the arduous
duties of a seaman's life. The position held by Austria among
the maritime powers was of necessity insignificant, and the
few unseaworthy vessels of :war which constituted her navy
bore the name more from courtesy than merit. But with the
Archduke Maximilian, there entered into it a new and energetic
spirit. He threw his whole soul into the work of its improve-
ment. Dividing his residence between Trieste, and Venice, the
principal harbors in the Austrian domain, he began the study
of sea-faring, both theoretically. and. practically. Under his
direction new ships were built, with all the recently discovered
strong points. His warm, cordial, sailor-like bearing to those
who were his companions and brother officers, won for him
their unswerving devotion, which, as he was promoted from
one position to another, merged itself into obedience. At the age
of twenty-two, Maximilian was placed at the head of the Austrian
navy, aind given entire control of the maritime department.
From this time forward his residence was Trieste, and there, he

labored, with all the energy of his nature, to make his minia-
ture fleet all that " skill and invention could accomplish." In
order to develop talent, and excite generous emulation among
the sailors and officers, he sought out,-and promoted merit and
gallantry wherever they were found, and he was soon surround-
ed by men who, for ability and enterprise, could have superiors,
nowhere.
The labors of this earnest-working man were not in vain. In
late years, when the struggle between Austria and Denmark
came to the test at Lissa, it was the choice of sailors, the se-
lection of the guiding hand firm and determined, that made the
victory redound to the credit of Maximilian, though American
waters rolled between him and his native land.
In command of an admiral-ship in 1855, Maximilian, with
his old love for travel, sailed for the Holy Land, where he spent
some time visiting the consecrated shrines.
He then proceeded to Egypt, where the ruins of Alexandria,
of Memphis, the Pyramids, and above all the mighty Nile,
were objects of absorbing interest, to his knowledge-loving
soul.
Returning to Vienna, the following 'year, now just twenty-
four years of age, more than six feet in height, of command-
ing appearance, splendid intellect, remarkably. cultivated and
easy in manner, with a certain grace and polish in conversation.
that made him wonderfully fascinating, the Archduke deter-
mined upon the visits of policy to the European courts.' The
first was to Napoleon, Emperor of France, and it was doubt-
less during this visit at -St. Cloud that the young Prince im-
pressed the royal monarch with his unusual abilities, and caused
Napoleon to fix his eye upon him as the " man for the future."
Leaving France, Maximilian proceeded to Brussels, where
he was received with cordial kindness by King Leopold, whose
esteem for the gallant Austrian admiral increased each day of
his stay.
During this visit, though limited to a few days, there was .a
voice, never heard before, that spake unto his heart ; and its
sweet tones softly swelled in depth and power, till in mighty
cadence it filled his whole soul with melody. It was the voice
of Love ; the hand of Love that led him into her temple, and
whispered the name of the vestal virgin that ministered there--
the " Princss Carlotta !" and the Archduke knelt before the
altar, and in silence laid his own heart thereon, an offering.
The Princess Carlotta of Belgium was but sixteen years of

CROWN-JEWELS,              3'T


CROWN JEWELS- -9

CROWN JEWELS.

age, a beautiful, cultivated maiden of splendid mental endow-
ments and unusual attainments as a scholar; at the. same time
wanting in none of the gentler, and softer attributes that render
the weaker sex so charming. Deprived of a mother's tender
care, almost in her infancy, she. had grown up the constant
companion of her royal father, whose love for his only daugh-
ter was filled with tenderness and solicitude, and he had himself
taken special care in the .selection of her teachers; so that,
even at thisage, her accomplishments were by no, means insig-
nificant. In the Princess Carlotta, Maximilian saw his ideal
of maidenly beauty and refinement, and he needed no second
revelation to tell him that she was the one to whom he would
gladly yield his future destiny.
He bore from Brussels the impress of that angel face, the
memory of the one who had opened the fountain in-his heart,
and he knew that the time must come, when her love should
be the brightest ray of sunlight across his path.
Passing through Holland and North Germany, lingering
amid the beautiful scenery that Edenizes, the banks of the
softly flowing Rhine, the Archduke at last returned to Vienna,
having learned at least one lesson, that should last him through
life, and whose teachings would guide him to weal or woe.

CHAPTER III.

SSOL ANI," said the Archduke to his friend, some months
after his return from Germany, when the two were to-
gether on a visit to Vienna, and were enjoying an
afternoon drive on the Prater, "do you think an am-
bitious man should ever marry ? that is, when he has no pur-
pose to secure, but marries, as the old ballad has it, 'all for
love'?"
- "Has a subject of such grave and vital importance at last
presented itself for consideration ? " replied} Count Isolani,
smiling. " Let us hear all before we commit ourselves, your
Highness, by expressing an opinion. Never having felt the
tender passion ourselves, of course our answer would be per-

fectly impartial. Let us hear ; has the sight of a beautiful face
in Venice, in Trieste, in France, or in Vienna here, impressed
you with the truth of the charge, 'it is not good for man to
be alone'? "
"IIa !" exclaimed Maximilian, "if I did not know you so
well, I should be willing to declare that you have no heart or-
ganically ; you are so impassive, Isolani! If one is proof against
the maidens of the places you have mentioned, then there is
no hope for them. But come now, let's be serious. You have
always been my confidant, Isolani, and I am -going to open a
window of my heart, that I have kept shut even from you, for
a good many months."
" Ah, ah ! " said Count Isolani, a -smile still playing on his
handsome face; "you have in truth an afaire du cceur, and
you have 'kept it from us so long ! " he added reproachfully.
" I trust I may be able to return the favor before a great while."
" Is it prudent to reveal the heart's workings to another, even
though that other be a second self, - as I confess you to be,
Isolani - before it has scarcely dared to whisper its purpose to
itself ?  But I am going to make a clean sweep of the whole
matter this afternoon. Come ! let's turn into this avenue to
the right. It looks quiet; and we shall perhaps not be dis-
turbed."
They entered a long, shady avenue of beautiful elms, stretch-
ing on in a green vista, and leading across a rustic bridge, that
seemed to have been placed by Nature over a deep ravine,
through' which a tiny stream rushed along to pour its little
current into the rolling waters of the Danube.
Maximilian was right; there was no prospect of their being
disturbed if they followed this road, for this little dell was not
a parade or show place, and few came to the Priter for retire-
ment or seclusion.
" Well, my friend," said Count Isolani, as he gave the reins
to the handsome horses and let them take a more quiet pace,
"I am all attention. Tell me how it all began; when and
where love gave the rose4int to all your dreams."
" To be short: it was the past autumn, during my visit to
King Leopold, at the Court of Belgium, that I aw the Princess
Carlotta, his only daughter. She was a timid maiden of but
sixteen years, just budding into beautiful womanhood. During
bny stay in Brussels, I was thrown not.a great deal with her,
and yet enough to discover that she possessed a mind as accom-
plished, as her person was elegant, and a heart as deep and full

38

39

,f


CROWN JEW ELS.            41

CROWN JEWELS.

40

of feeling as though she had heard naught of the world's
policy. Until I saW her, my mind was fully decided that I
would never marry; for you know, Isolani, what matters of
convenience royal marriages usually are ; but I came away from
Brussels with my resolution shaken.' II went to Trieste, deter-
mined to say nothing of the impress she had made upon my
heart to any one, not even to you -for I thought, and even
hoped, it would wear away ; but as the weeks and months pass,
I find that 'human love is not the growth of human will,' and
something draws my thoughts, my aspirations, my future, all in
one direction. I can draw no picture, but she seems to be the
spirit that breathes life and reality into it. You see, Isolani,
how the case stands ! "
" Ah, yes," cried Count Isolani, half laughing; "the diagno-
sis is quickly given; and though I dislike exceedingly to pre-
scribe the remedy, for it may be in the end, my individual loss,
yet there is but one !"
"And that, of course, is marriage? Yes, here I am, in spite
of all my resolutions, in spite of all my declarations against it
drifting headlong into the same current that has wrecked so
many ! You know me, Isolani, better, perhaps, than any one
else; do you think that I am worthy to take into my keeping
the happiness of a true, devoted woman? for, with me, the
question whether the Princess Carlotta will regard my suit with
favor, is not the only one. There is another, that comes up, to
me often and often: 'What preparation of heart and soul is
necessary for a man, to become a proper companion for a Chris-
tian woman?' for, before God, Isolani, I would not blight the
happiness, nor mildew the life of a woman that treads the earth.
The glances of court-dames, and demoiselles hav'n't troubled
my heart much heretofore, and I feel that the love I offer the
Princess Carlotta is fresh and pure."
"And you have made up your mind fully to offer her this
love, your Highness? "  asked Count Isolani, looking up.
" Well, I can only say that the Princess Carlotta is blessed.
And who is to be your ambassador, your Highness ?"
" I thought to ask Count Arquinto to be the royal ambassa-
dor to King Leopold ; and to beg you, Isolani, to accept the
heart's mission to the princess."
" I,-your Highness ? I, am but a poor representative, with,
perhaps, only one shining quality -and that, I trust, is sin-
cerity; but if I can do aught to further your. happiness, may
services are at your disposal."

" Thank you a thousand times, Isolani ! But listen to a little
more, and then I won't worry you with this sentimentalism
any more this afternoon. King Leopold may reply favorably
to my suit from reasons of policy; but I could not lead his
daughter to* the altar, unless I felt that her heart dictated the
words of the vows that made us one. It is now May, Isolani; I.
can readily obtain for you a leave of absence from Trieste, from
the first of June, for a couple months. Will you go then to
Brussels with Count Arquinto, and present to the Princess
Carlotta a miniature that I shall send?  Count Arquinto will
return ; but will you remain until he goes to make the last
preparations, and if King Leopold's answer should be favorable,
test the Princess Carlotta's heart, as you will have opportunity
at the palace? Study her character, and before it is too late,
let me know the truth - whether she is willing to marry the
Archduke of Austria simply, or Ferdinand Maximilian. Will
you accept the mission, Isolani? Believe me, there is not an-
other that I would trust so far ! "
Count Isolani was silent for a few moments; and when he
spoke, it was hardly in tones so light and cheery as before.
" It is indeed a difficult, or rather a delicate, task you have set
me, my friend," he said, " and I hardly fbel myself competent;
yet I cannot refuse to serve you anywhere, or in any capacity.
Arrange things as you will, and when you need me, command
me ; only promise, that, however I may- act in fulfilling your
mission, you will not doubt my truth and fidelity to your-
self?"
"Never! " said the Archduke; " and may I be able to serve
you in a like cause," he added, smiling, as Isolani heaved a sigh.
"But, as I said, you are so irkpassive, that I am afraid there is
no crystal fountain in your nature. We must go over to Trieste
in a couple of. days, and arrange for your absence. See! here
we are in the crowd again, and 'tout le monde' is bearing
homeward, and perhaps we had best go that way too, for it's
growing chilly."
They left the Prater, and turned in the direction of Schon-
brunn, which was now the Imperial residence.
The two were unusually silent. Count Isolani was thinking
zf the new phase his friend's life had taken, a little regretfully,
perhaps; not all unmixed with envy, for he pictured himself
deprived of the genial companionship that had been such a joy.
ie wondered if he should ever dream this dream of love -
whether, in truth, "there's nothing half so sweet in life;" and


42

CROWN JEWELS.

I I

CHAPTER IV.

" RING OUT THE MARRIAGE BELLS! o"

HE wedding-day of the Princess Carlotta was a high
holiday in Brussels. Though the people did not par-
ticipate in, or witness the august ceremonies at the
palace chapel, where the rites were performed, yet their
hearts caught the feeling of joy; and they sought in every way -
by decorating with suspended tapestry their houses, by raising
in the park triumphal arches, wreathed. with garlands of fresh
flowers; by closing their business houses, and appearing on the
principal streets, in their gayest, brightest attire-to testify their

CROWN JEWELS.

43'

with a hopeful sigh that, perhaps, there might be some one, com-
ing to meet him, and he might be going onward to meet her,until
their paths should unite, and they should walk together in hap-
piness, he brushed the shadow from his brow, and determined
within himself to do all he cold for his friend.
And Maximilian? He was thinking of life, was picturing it
through that rosy atmosphere that Love's hand alone can give.
Imbued with the same spirit of poetry and romance that, in
the early ages, gave birth to German idealism, he. saw every
event of life through a higher medium than those who make
utility their lens. The spirit of the hero, which was Nature's
dower to him, had been fostered and cultivated by his travels,
at that period of life when the heart of youth cherishes with
loving admiration the memory of fallen .warriors. With
an exalted idea of Christian heroism and chivalry, love was
with him a grand passion, high and holy,-not simply the
chanting of erotic strains, evanescent and changing ; but it
was the enthusiastic, poetic sentiment of devotion, such as the
Christian knights entertained for those whose names were in-
scribed upon their shields. To him, " woman was the compan-
ion, the consoler of man; his counsel in difficulty, in sorrow
his guardian angel."
Happy the moment that led him to the Princess Carlotta !

II

love for their Princess, and their good wishes for her future
happiness.
The royal palace was the scene of elegant magnificence. The
Princess Carlotta bore the name of the English wife who had
been so dear to King Leopold's heart, and the affection which
he entertained for his daughter was of no ordinary type.
Though he trusted implicitly the guardian to whom he was
about to yield this jewel of his heart, yet the sacrifice was still
painful; and though he directed that naught should be spared
to make the wedding a brilliant occasion, his heart turned with
bitterness from the contemplation of the departure that would
follow. The court chapel, festooned with garlands; the pillars,
trimmed with wreaths of roses; the chancel, decorated with
the same floral offerings; the altar-cloth of rich white.,velvet,
embroidered with gold, and bordered with heavy bullion fringe;
the stately chairs, with their rich mountings, -all lent an air
of courtly magnificence, rather than of religious devotion, to the
place; and, as the beams of the morning sun stole in through
the stained-glass windows, and flooded the aisles with a rich,
golden light, the stern gaze of the old saints on the darkly
frescoed walls seemed to soften, their solemn faces light up
with a subdued smile that, perhaps, they had sometimes worn on
earth, there was naught lacking to complete the dreamy beauty
and solemnity, of the scene.
At an early hour, the honored guests, the lords and ladies of
the nobility, began to arrive, and the chapel was rapidly filled.
At last, the hour for the marriage was announced by the distant
firing of guns; and a hush of expectation ran through the as-
sembly, as from behind the altar came the archbishop and four
other bishops wearing silver tiaras, flowing robes and mantles
in richness, suited to their rank. These, taking their places
before the altar, were followed by an array of priests bearing
lighted candles, vessels of holy water, and the sacred book -
adjuncts of the solemn Cathblic ceremony.
And now, down the aisle, came the, grand chamberlain of
the royal household, and the various court officials, and range
themselves in their respective places on either side of the altar.
Then came the Princess' brothers, the Duke de Brabant and
the Count do Flandre, the former a noble-looking young Prince
of twenty-two years, and the latter two years his junior. Each
knelt on the steps of the chancel, before the archbishop, and
kissed the cross, while the Father touched their brows with
holy water.


CROW1 JEWELS.               45

44               CRo0WY JEWELS.

And now, followed by the members of the escort which had
accompanied him from Vienna, comes the royal bridegroom, the
Archduke Maximilian of Austria. Though recently appointed
Viceroy over the Lombardo-Venetian provinces in Italy, he still
wears the magnificent uniform of an Austrian admiral, and as
- he walks proudly up the aisle, he seems indeed one born to
command everywhere respect, admiration, and love. The Arch-
duke bows himself in obeisance before the altar, and, while
kissing the golden cross, receives upon his brow the signet of a
true Catholic.-
There is a, rustling of silken robes, and the Princess
Carlotta enters, leaning upon the arm of her august father.
Upon her brow rests a tiara of glittering diamonds, graceful as
a wreath of orange-flowers, and a brooch of the same precious
stones flashes upon her bosom; while the rich robe of white
silk, threaded with silver and almost covered with finest lace,
sweeps into.an ample train, borne by her royal attendants, who
are followed by the maids.of honor.-
The beautiful bride kneels beside her father before the arch-
bishop, who presents the cross to her lips, and as she rises, her
youthful face is slightly flushed with excitement, but in her eye
"beams confident the hope of future happiness."
And now the archbishop begins the ceremony of the matri-
monial coronation, as the bride and bridegroom stand before
him, by the intonation of a psalm; each verse consecrated by
the choir in the glorious paean, " Glory be to Thee, our God;
glory be to Thee'!"S
The ceremony is continued, with solemn prayers and pledges,
with the sprinkling of holy water, and the bridal-ring, in the
sight of God and man "in the name of the Father, of the Son,
and the Holy Ghost" the royal couple are made one; and the
vows "for better or for worse" rest upon the souls of the
Archduke Maximilian and the Archduchess Carlotta.
From the organ loft the glad " Te Deum!" rings out, the
guests offer their congratulations, and in the distance the loud-
mouthed cannon echoes "Amen ! "     S
The wedding breakfast is over ; the guests depart ; and the
day passing swiftly on, brings the afternoon hours. The park,
which we have seen before in half.quietude, wears now a different
look. Triumphal arches, decorated with flowers, and mounted
in the centre with the cross-flags of Austria and Belgium wav-
ing in the breeze, are seen at every turn of the carriage-way;-
while the smooth green lawns are thronged with citizens of all

sexes and ages, who have come hither to catch a glimpse of the
bride and her noble husband.
As the royal carriage enters the gate, and rolls along the
gravel, between the living avenues of people, who press forward,
and peer with anxious glance to see the Princess in her bridal
attire, and to see ." what manner of man " the Archduke Maxi-
milian is; as the carriage rolls on under the flowery arches,
the shout from the vast multitude goes up as one voice, "Long
live the Archduchess Carlotta ! Long live the Archduke Max-
imilian!" Again and again, rising and falling in mighty cadence,
the cry goes up, until at last the carriage, stopping in front of
the music pavilion where the "Band of the Guides," is assem-
bled for the. afternoon's musical entertainment, the Archduke
rises from his seat to make acknowledgment for the enthusi-
astic greeting to the Archduchess and himself.
In a moment all is hushed, and every eye is directed to the
Prince, who stands there in his Austrian uniform, his head un-
covered, and the light hair pushed back, revealing his high,
-open forehead.
Belgians !" said he, in a voice clear and distinct, but full of
deep, earnest feeling, "one year ago, I came to your court a
stranger, known only as an Austrian prince, the guest of your
august sovereign; then I looked upon your honest faces for
the first time. A happy fate has thrown me again in your
midst, and I trust that I need no other passport to your heart,
than the name.of the Princess Carlotta ! You have given me
this day, the fairest flower that blooms in your kingdom. God
being my helper, you shall never regret the trust ; and may it
be remembered, when we go from your midst, that wherever
destiny guides us, the Archduke Maximilian owes to Belgium
the deepest debt of gratitude the heart of man can know!"
Again the shouts go up; now with double force, "Long
livethe noble Archduke Maximilian; long live the lovely Car-
lotta# !"
The tumult of joy is hushed again, as from the pavilion
come the strong, full notes of the German national air. The
crowd moves to and fro about the Park in unrestrained enjoyment,
their souls filled with music, their hearts with happiness. Listen-
to the melody that floats m. the atmosphere, as piece after
piece is given with wonderful power by the band, the people for-
get that tlhe royal carriage has left the park, forget that the
daylight is gone and the twilight is commg; until at last they.
nte that themusic is hushed, and see that the great trees


46                  CROWN JEWELS.
are casting shadows on the green, and they hurry home in the
moonlight, wondering when such another day will come.
The Archduke and Archduchess left .Brussels in two days
for Vienna, from whence, after a short visit to the royal family
of Austria, they would pass on to Italy, whither the Archduke's
duties as Viceroy called him.
The court had left the imperial palace at Vienna for Schon-
brunn, just without the city, the birth-place, not only of Maxi-
milian, but of most of the princes of his house since the time
*  of Maria Theresa, by whom the palace was built.
The Archduchess Carlotta was received at Sch~nbrunn by
the royal family with the utmost tenderness and kindness.
Though the rejoicings at Vienna were 4ot conducted with the
same delight among the populace, there was naught lacking to
make the Archduchess, feel that she was gladly welcomed to the
Austrian heart.
It was with great joy that the Princess found herself at last in
the quiet of her own chamber at Schonbrunn. The apartments
assigned to the royal pair during their stay in Austria, were
adorned with elegance and taste. An exquisite boudoir, sepa-
rated from the ,private chamber by dark, graceful curtains,
was rich in Venetian mirrors, gilded candelabras, luxurious
divans, and soft-cushioned ottomans. A magnificent piano,
inlaid with pearl, filled one recess, and the walls were adorned
with beautiful paintings, for which it was known that the Arch-
duchess had an absorbing fondness. An arched doorway, or
long window led into an open balcony, filled with rare and aro-
matic flowers.
It was but a week after her arrival at Schonbrunn, and the
day before their departure for Italy, that the Archduchess sat
alone in her boudoir, enjoying the quiet to which of late
she had become such a stranger.     _
Just two weeks had passed-how short a period !-and yet
with the concentrated life of years, in those fleeting hours, since
in her father's palace she had heard the greeting of the one who
was now her husband. She remembered so well the smile
Maximilian had given her, as he softly whispered of his love,
and their future. "Was this the ideal lover? " ffr since she
first saw him, more than a year ago, she had idealized him into
more than man -this the Prince of whom she had been dream-
ing through so many months ?
Aye, her ideal hiad paled and vanished into insignificance
before the true hero, as she saw him now, who, with those po.-

CRO WY JEWELS.             47

tent words of the ancient Roman, had held her heart cap-
tive.
The Archduchess had risen from her seat, and in her musing
almost unconscious of her action, had stepped out into the bal-
cony, and while looking down at the towers and steeples of
Vienna in the distance, plucked a sprig of scarlet geranium
from the stand at her side.
. A spirit of love seemed to hover about her, and "filled the
air and all around with beauty."
" Carlotta ! "
She heard her name murmured in soft, loving accents, and
turning, beheld Maximilian standing just within the win.
dow.
He held his arms out towards her, and his eyes, bent upon
her in admiration and love, seemed to woo her to his em-
brace.
" Why have you stolen from me, little Princess ? Am I not
now to be the sharer of your 'time and thoughts, and have I
not been kept away from you enough already, by this jubil-
ate that greets us everywhere? After all, there are inconvenien-
ces in royalty, that, however Cupid rebels against them, hold
him fast."
The Archduchess stood-in the balcony a step above her hus-
band, and the setting sun threw around her a halo of glory, and
lit up her face with an unearthly brightness. Drooping about
her rounded, girlish figure in graceful folds, a soft fleecy India
muslin gave an ethereal-like being to the Princess; while the
brooch of pearl at her throat clasped the spray of scarlet geran-
ium flowers she had plucked, and the tiny stars of an Arabian
jessamine peeped out of the masses of dark hair. -
As the Archduke gazed upon her, his heart seemed written
on his face, and upon his brow happiness had stamped her
seal.
"Ah ! then you have felt that, Maximilian?" said Carlotta,
half sadly, as he finished speaking.
" Shall I answer the question that is trembling in your heart,
Carlotta?" whispered Maximilian. "Yes," for I too must ask it:
did Cupid rebel when your hand was placed in mine?  I am
willing to trust the words that crowd upon me for utterance;
nay, willing to ti-ust my actions, which do but shadow forth the
inner man, to speak for me;. but you, Carlotta, have been
silent:. I have heard no'love greeting in return."
For a moment a flush~ overspread the .face of the Princess;


48              CROWN JEWELS.

but then, turning her face up to the Archduke, with a light
laugh, she exclaimed, -
" And was not Count Isolani's message enough for your
Highness?"
"Isolani! God bless him," said the Archduke, smiling. "He
was true to his trust. Was ever woman in such manner won?
But Isolani and I have both your forgiveness ? the 'end sanc
tifies the means'? Isolani! poor fellow ! If he was only here to
wish us joy; but he left Trieste a month ago, sent on a cruise to
Africa -will perhaps be gone two years. I wish he could be with
us in Italy; but the sea is the life for a sailor ; even I, long to
get back again."
" Tell me, Maximilian," said Carlotta, " something of your
sailor-life and your home at Trieste."
"My home at Trieste ; Miramar? " replied the Archduke
eagerly, as he led her to a divan within.  "Ah !if we could but
go to Miramar before we go hence to Italy. Shall I bring up
the poet's picture, -
-" 'A deep vale,
Shut out by Alpine hills from the rude world,
Near a clear lake, margined by fruits of gold
And whisperingmyrtles: glassing softest skies
As cloudless, save with rare and roseate shadows
As I would have thy fate  -
A palace, lifting to eternal summer,
Its marble walls from out a glossy bower
Of coolest foliage, musical with birds ;'
"A   home for a Sybarite! But you, Carlotta, are a sailor's
wife, and must live where the soulid of old ocean,in its ceaseless,
surging flow, is the answering voice of the soul's companion.
Miramar is a palace after my own heart, situate, not in an
Eden plain, but on a wild rocky promontory, where Nature seemed
to sit enthroned, claiming it as her own, and defying Art to take it
from her. Under my own supervision, the castle was begun only
a few years since; and now, you can stand onthe stone balconies,
or down-in the garden amid the flowers, and look far away at
the white-crested waves of the Adriatic ; or, turning, descry in
the distance the cloud-capped heights of the mighty Alps.
There, Carlotta, when the world is done with us, and our duties
are performed, is to be our home, the retreat and abiding place
of happiness ! ".
The Archduchess had listened with eager attention to this
picture. of her future home, and her eyes now rested in admira.
tion upon her husband.-.     -

" It is a mystery I cannot solve, Maximilian," she said at last,
"how it is that you bear the onus of belonging to the tabooed
sect of ' woman-haters ;' you, whose appreciation of all that is
beautiful in nature and art is so high, and who have so little
of the cynic about you."
A laugh from the Archduke met her question.
" Then, because I've been no ' cooing Tannhauser.;' because I
have not frittered away the precious years of my young manhood
in attendance upon court dames and demoiselles; because I have
striven to keep my heart above the effervescing, volatile passions
of youth ; have endeavored to refine and perfect my whole na-
ture, so that I might make both heart and hand a worthy offer-
ing to a noble woman, - I have forsooth won for myself the un-
amiable soubriquet of 'woman-hater '!  No, Carlotta ; you are
right. I am indeed no cynic, but I have a contempt, which I
have never sought to disguise, for those who can content them-
selves to be but the froth of the sea, never dreaming that the river
of time is drifting them on to the boundless ocean of eternity;
never turning from the pleasure, the sunshine of to-day, to
think that there may be clouds and storms to-morrow. Such
men and such women I do most heartily pity, and cordially
despise! *But give me the man or woman, peasant, or Princess,
who, while adorning the circle in which God has placed them
can still, when the storms come, stand up bravely, and looking
up undaunted, say, with the faith of s true heart, 'If I cannot
escape, I can endure,'- give me his hand, and let me call him
'Brother'! We must learn, Carlotta, as' far as in our power
lies, the great purpose of God in the creation of man, if he
would be great in the future. To live for His gfor is to live for
our own; and the influence that strengthens us or the task, is
Love. Yes, love ; love of the good and the true, wherever'it is
found; for we are raised from the contemplation of these attri-
butes in things animate or inanimate, to the One, the great Crea-
tor, who is the embodiment' of Wisdom, Goodness, and Truth.
Love elevates the souls of men and women, for it kindles the
spark of divinity that lies in the heart, smould'ering beneath
the ashes of mortality. Have I not~read you a sermon, though
I am afraid Jeremy Taylor or Hooker would hardly accept it as
orthodox ?"
Carlotta smiled. "Stay," she said, "you have not finished
Hope is Love's companion; but what do 'you do with earthly
ambition; is it not one of the powerful agencies in~the eleva-
tion of men ? .Did not Bonaparte have both love and ambi-
8

IE

1I

CRO tiVN JEWELS.              49


50              CROWN JEWELS.

tion in his heart; and where did they lead him.  Did not ambi-
tion destroy him at last, great man that he was? "
" Bonaparte was great ; and if his goodness of heart had but
equalled his ambition, he would have been god-like. Ambition
is right ; it does elevate men's souls when it is not brought to
the earth. That soul-annihilating principle that clings to self,
first and last, always works its own ruin.. You remember Car-
dinal Wolsey's requiem over his own destiny:
"'Farewell ! a long farewell to all my greatness !
This is the state of man : to-day he puts forth .
The tender leaves of hope ; to-morrow blossoms,
And bears his blushing honors thick upon him;
The third day comes a frost, a killing frost :
- And - when he thinks, good, easy man, full surely,
His greatness is a-ripening -nips isroot,
And then, he falls, aslIdo!"I
Maximilian's deep, full voice gave unwonted impress to the
truthful words ; and listening to the rich melody, one might
have dreamed it to be the spirit of poetry, improvising and
giving to man the beautiful teachings of a divine philosophy.
The palace clock struck seven, and eight was the hour for the
reunion in the drawing-room of the palace. The Archduke rose,
and drawing the Archduchess to the, window he whispered,
" My darling, to-morrow we leave this palace to go out into
the world, to build there our temple. We each pray that it may
be strong and enduring; and I read in your eyes that it must
go upward, upward, very high.    Shall we not inscribe upon its
dome the magic words, Love, Truth, and Ambition ? Love
first. And may I give-you my definition of this goddess, as I
see her, and know her ?  An ethereal being she is, whose pres-
ence illumines everything -the lowly valley and the lofty moun-
tain ; to those who see her by the eye of faith, every cloud
is gilded that floats across the horizon and shadows human
life. An inbreathing power she sends into the hearts of men,
that gives them strength to do whatever is, to be done, speaks
and acts for them, and.sends them  forth to conquer ; aye, she
binds together humanity with golden links, for though, her
mission leads her oft to palace halls, yet she .disdains not to
dwell with the simplest peasant maiden, and truly,
"'Lays the shepherd's crook
Beside the sceptre.'
"Aye, love breathes over all nature," continued the Arch-
duke, as he looked out upon the beautiful landscape, where the

II

cRo WN JEWELS.                       51
shadows lay so calma and still, " an ineffable atmosphere of joy,
that happiness approaches only as moonlight approaches the
sunbeam, that brightens, intensifies, and glorifies life itself.
"'iFlowers laugh before her on their beds,
And fragrance in her footing treads ;
She doth preserve the stars fromwrong,
And the eternal heavens through her are fresh and strong.'
"Tell me, Carlotta, before I go, does your heart echo my
words? Has your soul felt this presence, as mine has? "
Carlotta lifted up her dark eyes, so full of feeling, to the
Archduke's face, while she answered softly,-
" You have shaped into words the greeting of my soul to
this angel visitor, who dwells now in the secret chambers of my
heart, chanting there in heavenly melody her holiest songs of
joy.,'
Maxiiilian bent, and imprinted a kiss upon her brow, and
as he bade her adieu- for to him, a moment away from her
seemed an age - whispered, " We are one, Carlotta, in thought,
feeling, and action ; no shadow of doubt nor spirit of evil
fancy can take away the faith, trust, and devotion which fills
our souls. We ueed not fear the future, for with such helpers
we can disarm or conquer fate."
Aye, they were being prepared, by the forging of links by an
unseen hand that bound them together and strengthened them,
for their future work. Triple-armed with love, truth, and am-
bition, to which was added faith, can they fail to act well their
part in the drama of life ?
And so they left Schinbrunn and went to Italy -went forth
for the first time together, to fight the battles : she, to cheer, to
comfort, and console; and he, with such inspiration, -to con-
quer.


CROWS JWEL.                 53'

52

CROW.Y .EWEL8.

CHAPTER V.

LONG and earnest gaze at the spouse of the Adriatic,
" rising with her tiara of proud towers ! "
U        Venice ! Poetry's home ! Like a dream she rises be-
fore us, " throned on her hundred isles ; " each marble
palace, each narrow arch, eloquent with stories of the past. The
low plashing of her gondolas, as beneath the moonlit sky, they
float over the watery streets, seems to whisper of her dead poet,
the "'echoes of whose songs are no more heard," but the memory
of whose greatness is not "writ in water ; " for while the names
of Tasso, gifted son of Genius; of Shakespeare, bard of Avon,
stand upon the enduring record which Time has given to im '
mortality, Venice, with her Bridge of Sighs and her Rialto,
cannot'be forgotten; and these will live in the hearts of men
when the marble palaces and stately towers that look down
upon the Grand Canal, crumbling with the passing years,
shall wear their funeral drapery of clinging sea-weed, and shall
listen to the ceaseless requiem  of their departed grandeur
chanted through. deserted chambers by the lonely waters of the
deep.
This morning we look upon the " City of the Sea " in all its
beauty. The sunlight catches up the spray of each tiny wave-
let, that, in playful glee, lifts its head above the blue waters 'of
the canal, and crowns it with a tiara of glittering diamonds.
Gondolas, barges, and launches, decorated with gay pennons of
red, white, and blue, pass each other in quick succession.
Here and there, like a proud bird of the sea, a-huge cano-
pied bissoni-" property of some noble lord" -looks down
with haughty air upon the less pretending proportions of a
paotti, which, like a' sea-shell guided by Neptune's messenger,
waits at a flight .of marble steps the coming of its master.
It is a festive day in Venice !  -
The Grand Canal is a blaze of color. The oarsmen, in fanci-
ful costumes, corresponding to the decorations of their gondo-
las, challenge each other in the skilful management of their

little vessels. Here, a, stately Greek, with scarlet jacket and
short white tunic, guides a gondola with formidable beak,,.an=
overarching canopy of scarlet and white, and its hangings bor-
dered with heavy gilt fringe, while an attendant train of lesser
boats completed the miniature Argonautic expedition. A little
farther up the Canal, a Turkish oarsman, with an immense tur-
ban of red and black, a red tunic, and Oriental trowsers, sits.
at the helm of a floating Ottoman palace, while near him, in
striking contrast, is moored a Spanish vessel, with colors of
green, red, and white.
The dark walls of the buildings, some of marble, others of
stone, that overlook each side of the Canal, are brightened and
adorned with hangings of every variety of color ; while the
light colonnades and balconies are filled with eager, anxious
watchers. Every arch or bridge, that commands a view, pre-
sents the same picture. of the human face divine, with the same
expression -r-that of curious expectation.
The Ducal Palace, once the pride of Venice, once the mag-
nificent home of the Doges, once the treasury of art, stands
out in bold relief at the head of the quay ; its arabesque carv-
ing, its beautifully proportioned pillars, glittering in the sun-
light. From the entrance of the palace, is extended a roll of
carpeting across the Piazetta, reaching to the marble steps that
lead down into the water - a very path of roses, from which,
in fancy, there comes a soft perfume, floating on the morning
breeze.
What' do these gay adornings, this ornamenting of barges
and launches, this moving to and fro ; the gathering of the
people in holiday attire, the expectant looks directed towards
the entrance of the Grand Canal-what does it all proclaim'
Has the shadow upon the dial receded ? has time gone back-
ward, and brought us Ascension Day of the century past? And
are we to behold the _solemn rites and ceremonies, of the wed-
ding of the Adriatic to the Royal, Doge ?  Alas!' the beau-
tiful sea bears a widowed heart ! The power has passed from
the dynasty of Anafesto Paiilulio, and with .it has gone the
poetic institution of Pope Alexander II. It is the sun 'of
the nineteenth century that shines upon her, and Venice yields
to another rule. From the tower of San Marco, where in an-
cient days floated the triple gonfalon, that told of Republican
conquest, now waves the flag of Austria, and to-day the re-
cently appointed Viceroy makes his first official visit to Venice,.
bringing with him his beautiful bride. This new Viceroy was

53


54             CROWN JEWELS.

not unknown-to the citizens of Venice. He had dwelt among
them when only a midshipman in the Austrian navy ; and af-
terwards they had seen him in their midst wearing the uniform
of an Admiral. They had learned to love the noble young.
Prince, and they knew he deserved the reputation he had won
for justice, generosity, and chivalry. And so, when he was
appointed Viceroy of the Italian provinces, they welcomed him
with joy, for though Italy pined for independence, yet when
not able to achieve it she desired a humane ruler ; and though, .
as an Austrian politically, the Archduke Maximilian was their
enemy, they knew he was personally their friend; and in
spite of the sullen nobles who hung aloof, and with Count
Cavour cried out against Austria and the Austrians, the
people gave way to the joy that filled their hearts at the ap-
pointment, and determined to give a grand reception to the
man who, they felt, would not make them feel the weight of
oppression.
A united and prolonged shout from a thousand voices tells
that the barge which bears the Viceroy is in sight. He comes
from Milan, where he had been a few weeks before most enthu-
siastically received with his young bride.
Like a floating mass of gold, its sides gorgeous in gilded.s
carving, a regal canopy overhanging a dais enclosed by a deli-)
cate balustrade ; with no tawdry trappings, yet elegantly mag-.
nificent, the gondola or barge bearing the royal party came in
.sight of the Ducal Palace, and moved like a thing of life gen-
tly up the Canal, the gayly dressed oarsmen keeping time ,with
their long oars to the motion of the vessel. At the prow stood
the Archduke Maximilian. Uncovering his head, he smilingly
acknowledged the shouts of welcome with which they were
greeted. Seated on the dais, surrounded by the members of
the cortege, beneath the canopy that shaded, without obscuring
those beneath, was the Archduchess Carlotta. As they neared
the marble steps, Maximilian approached the dais, and taking
her hand led her to the front of the canopy, where together
they acknowledged the vivas of the people, which now went
up with more enthusiasm than before. As he stood there,
proudly, in the open sunlight, the stars and crosses of his rank
and office glittering upon his breast, the eye of the Archduke took
in with loving eagerness, the scene before him. This demon-
stration of welcome was very grateful to his heart ; the usually
silent palace of the.Doges rang with the echoes of the huzzas
that rent the air. A true chivalric spirit is antagonistic to

despotism or oppression; and though a country, a province, or
a State, by the fortunes of war, may become tributary to one
more powerful, yet a magnanimous government or ruler ever
disdains to crush out of the heart of the weaker, the manly
love of freedom and of liberty ; disdains to grind the iron heel
of tyranny into their souls, until, under the degrading yoke, a
free people are reduced to abject slavery. So felt Archduke
Maximilian. He was now the representative of Austria in
Italy, and it was not his desire to humiliate the people under his
rule by a harsh and unyielding administration, but he rather
hoped, by endearing himself to them, by the exercise of just
and humane policies, to root out of their hearts, their hatred to
Austria. Such was Maximilian's cherished dream in going to
Italy, and gladly did he receive these acknowledgments of
welcome as in part an assurance for the future.
The gondola has reached the steps, at the head of which the
dignitaries of the city await the landing of the party.
And now they have ascended the steps, and are conducted,
with their cortege, across the Plaza to the patriarchal cathedral
of San Marco, where they are received by the ecclesiastical
authorities with all due ceremony. Through the five domes
which -crown the church, echo the strains of the organ, in
solemn, Catholic worship, as the Archduke and Archduchess
kneel before the altar to receive the holy blessing.
As the cortege left the cathedral, crossed the Plaza, and
again reached the palace, the loud-mouthed instruments of an
Italian band rent the air with concord of sweet sounds. The
Ducal Palace was to be the home of the Viceroy during his stay
in Venice, his residence proper being at Milan; so the' royal
party entered the palace, ascended the Giant's Staircase, with its
statues of Mars and Neptune keeping guard over the treasures
of wealth and art within, and entered the hall of reception.
The populace without clamored for another sight of the Vice-
roy ; and in answer to their repeated calls, Maximilian at last
appeared upon the balcony, and in a short, but elegant address
in Italian, gave the policy of the Austrian Government, and=
her intentions, towards the Italian provinces. He assured the
Italians, that "though they accepted with ungracious spirit the
fortunes of war, and looked with suspicion upon Austria, they
would find that tyranny had no part in her future regime. The
Venetians, as far as possible, should be as virtually free as un-
der a government of their own selection. It should he his'en-
deavor to increase the commerce of Venice, and to restore

A

0RO WN JEWELS,              55,


CROWN JEWELS.

57

her ancient maritime supremacy ; to foster genius, the love of
letters, the cultivation of the arts, and the study of science,
until, disentombed, her people should again point to her with
pride and glory.
The acclamations of joy, the repeated shouts, "Viva le Vice-
roy ! viva Maximilan ! " told him that his words fell like dew
upon the hearts of the Venetians, who knew that to this man they
were for the present given in keeping ; and it was then, upon
the day of his arrival in Venice, that bond of union was
established between the Viceroy and the people that lasted
throughout his stay in Italy ; for Maximilian entered upon his
delicate task (for what position is attended with greater diffi-
culties, than that of appointed ruler over a country once free?)
with the highest purposes, the truest intentions, and the noblest
appreciation of his duty, both to Venice and to Austria.

CHAPTER VI.

T    IX months had passed away, and again the Archduke
and Archduchess have come from Milan to visit the
people of Venice.
It was the last night of the Carnival. Night, with' its
dreamy spell of romance and poetry ! The bright moonbeams
steal softly down into the quiet waters, bearing with them the
deep shadows of the gondolas, that, with colored lights at the
helm, of red, white, and blue, glide swiftly over the calm bosom
of the Canal; while, everywhere, the lamps of the city challenge
the brightness of the stars, in the blue sky above.
The Piazzetta in front of the Ducal Palace was thronged
with citizens, anxious for the signal for the grand display of
fireworks, with which the festivities of the evening are to be
ushered in. To-night, every one is out for enjoyment, for it is
the farewell to gayety, and to-morrow comes the solemn, sacrifi-
cial season of Lent.
As the light rockets and Roman candles sped upward, and
then, describing a parabolic curve, began to descend in waving
brightness, until they fell, a shower of dust, into the water be-.

CROWN JEWELS.

neath the shouts of the multitude went up in a prolonged cry
~of merriment and joy.
But see! Rising from the position occupied by a group of
Austrian soldiery, above the heads of the crowd, dazzling the
eye by its brilliance, is seen a double crescent - the smaller
just filling the concave of the larger -which in flaming letters
ofuruby brightness formed the word "MAXIMILIAN     while
just beneath, in diamond whiteness, is the name "CARLOTTA ! "
Again and again went up the shout, "Viva le Viceroy!
Viva la, Signora Carlotta!"
The Italians had almost forgotten that the Archduke was an
Austrian, so lightly had the German iule sat upon them under
his administration during the past six months. He had been
so true to his promises, so faithful to his purposes, that there
were not wanting those, either in Milan or Venice, to bless him.
This was his first visit to Venice, since his reception there, six
months ago, when he remained only a few days; and so encour-
aged by his nearness to them, and led on by their generous im-
pulses, the crowd in front of the palace cried out the more,
"Viva le Viceroy !"
From the entrance of the Ducal Palace, there .emerged two
figures, each clad in the dark covering of a domino; while
heavy masques of satin entirely baffled curiosity by concealing
the features of their faces. The height and stature of the one
proclaimed his sex; while the other clung so timidly to his
arm, that it left but little doubt of the trembling woman's
heart, that beat beneath the sombre disguise. Mingling with
the crowd collected on the piazzetta, they were soonlost in
the waving sea of human beings moving restlessly to and fro,
many of whom, like themselves, were disguised in domino and
masque.
As the .chef d'oeuvre of the evening went up, -the double
crescent, -the two whom we have noticed, stood side by side
watching it, until the last ray of its brightness vanished amid
the shouts of the soldiery and the populace. A coarse voice
near them gave' forth a half-audible hiss, which was lost in the
vivas of the multitude.
A terrific oath, unbroken Italian, from the same voice now
fell upon the ear.
"iD-n these cursed Venetians! they deserve liberty in-
deed! Talk of freedom, and yield so to Austrian tyranny.
1ah! it sickens even a German to hear how tey cry 'iva
for Italy!l' and 'Viva fore Austria U 'Viva Victor Emman-

56


CROWN JEWELS.              59

58              CROWN JEWELS.

uel !' and 'Viva Maximilian !' in the same breath !  But
with all their shouting, it's d-d few favors they are likely to
get from this young Ilapsburg scion; he is too nearly descended
from the despotic, grasping Maria Theresa and her son
Joseph ! "
" And, I say," responded his neighbor, en masque, in pure
Italian tones, "I say, who are you -German as you are- to
give the Italians rules of conduct?  You are not likely to help'
her gain liberty, that you talk about so loudly ! Attend to your
own affairs in Prussia ! Go home and stay there ; Venice can
take care of herself; you needn't trouble!" he added, with~ a
sneer so perceptible, that a loud laugh issued from the bystand-
ers a few of whomhad been diverted from the fireworks by the,
conversation.
The Prussian-for such he was -already heated by liquor,
grew enraged at the ridicule directed against him.
"Ah ! that's the way for young noblemen" (the young man's
dress and bearing told that he was 'of high rank)." who want
offices to talk ! Tell Austria how much Italy loves and blesses
her ! Throw dust in her eyes, and perhaps the taxes wont be
so heavy on your fine estates; that's the way to free Italy.
Go on, go on; give festivals in honor of Austria!"
As the insulting, jeering tones of the maladetti tedeschi, fell
upon the young nobleman's ear, the hot blood rushed to his
cheek, and upon the impulse of the moment his hand was
raised, and fell in a stinging blow upon the face of his adver-
sary,
" Take that ! you Prussian dog and German traitor ! And
for your pains learn to take care of your own affairs. Teach
your Fredericks to keep the Burgher guards in subjection, and
you will be well employed!"
Smarting under the pain of the blow, which was inflicted
with no light touch, and writhing in spirit under the taunts
of his opponent, whose bravery had evidently turned the tide
of opinion in his favor, the man, with a volley of oaths,
quickly drew from his side a little dagger, and rushing upon
the young man, who seemed unprepared for an attack, would
have plunged it into his .breast ; when suddenly, it was
wrenched from his grasp, and his hand was held in a firm, iron-
like' clasp. Turning, it was only the figure of a black- domino
that he saw, and before he could recover from his surprise, the
cry of " Police ! police !" rang through the crowd.'
The hand quickly left its hold upon the Prussian; and the

wearer of the domino hurriedly whispered to the young noble-
man, "-The Plaza San Marco," and was lost amid the others.
" Duke Maximilian ? " whispered the nobleman, in surprise,
as they made their way through the crowd, "and the Arch-
duchess with you?" as he caught sight of the figure at his
side.
" Silentio I" returned the Archduke, for it was indeed he.
"We are strictly incognito to-night, Stromboli. Let us sepa-
rate ; we'll attract attention - or no - signal a gondola."
" We'll not meet that turbulent fellow again," said the Count
Stromboli, as they neared the marble steps, and stood there
waiting the approach of a gondola. "I owe your Highness, in
addition to the many other favors, a greater one than all to-
night; for my life was not worth much, before that man's dag-
ger. I foolishly came out unprepared for any difficulty,-as I
know they are so unfrequent in Venice."
"You might indeed have borne an ugly wound, if the Prus-
sian's weapon had touched your scarf; but he is safely lodged
now for the night, I think, in the hands of the guard. Prus-
sia can never let Austria pass without a thrust. Our friend
to-night, doubtless, hoped to stir up a regular row between the
people and the soldiers over their little device. .But see ! here
is our gondola ! This is indeed an escapade, for our little Prin-
cess here, whose heart is beating audibly over our recent dra-
matic episode. We can see the' beauties of the Carnival from
the Canal first, and afterwards return to the Plaza."
While speaking, they descended the little steps that led to
the water,, where waited a gondola ornamented with colored
lights, and bearing aloft at its helm, a large flag embroidered
with fanciful device.
Assisting the Archduchess into the little bark, the Arch-
duke stepped lightly in, followed by Count Stromboli, a young
nobleman who had, since the Archduke's viceroyship in Italy,
made himself quite his friend.
Slipping a coin into the hand of the gondolier, they were
soon speeding over the Grand Canal. Lightly the long oars
touched the moonlit waters, leaving a';soft gleam of radiance
rippling the surface behind.  Onward they went, passing in
quick succession,-gondolas, adorned like their own with colored
transparencies, freighted with happiness, that spoke from
the lovely faces, and echoed from the ringing laughter of those
within.
From the distance, came the sound of music. Mellowed and


60               CROW N JEWELS.

softened, as, borne by the evening breeze over the water, it
lingered on the quiet air. Nearer and nearer it came, until,
passing under the arch, of the Grand Bridge, which itself shone
with light, the beautiful gondola, " Star of the Evening," with
its magnificent band of musicians, came in sight.
Festooned about its sides, forming half-circles of varied light,
were transparencies of red, white, and blue.. In the centre of
the gondola, was an ornamented pavilion, under which the mu-
sicians sat. A miniature chandelier, suspended within, threw a
soft light upon the gilded musical instruments, which were all
under perfect control of the master hands that guided them.
With divine sweetness, began the introddzione to the exquisite
air from Flotow's " Martha," "M 'appari tutt'arnor."  Ris-
ing and falling in musical cadence, now softly modulated into a.
strain of sadness, now swelling with a lover's pleading, the
very air seemed to tremble with delight at the sound of such
heavenly melody.
As the gondola containing the party we have left, passed this
floating temple of music, the ecstasy of the Archduchess knew
no bounds. A passionate lover of the fine arts, an adept her-
self in music and painting, these months in Italy were to her
full of poetic and spiritual pleasure. Though in Milan she was
happy, yet she hailed with delight the visits to Venice ; and
she had persuaded the Archduke, a few days since, to come
hither during the Carnival, in order that she might witness the
gayeties of the season, in which to-night she hoped, by her dis-
guise, to be an unknown, unrestrained participator.
They had passed lofty palaces that in stately grandeur looked
down upon their humbler neighbors'; had -seen the lights from
within reflected in the water without, and dancing upon the
little waves that smiled at the stars above ; they had gone the
whole length of the grand street of Venice, and were again re-
turning to the Plaza San Marco, the public square, which was
now the scene of merriment and festivity. A crowd of mas-
queraders had gathered there, and were enjoying the exhilara-
tion of the merry dance.
For some moments, the party sat in the gondola at the foot
of the steps, watching the graceful movements of the dancers,
who kept time to the tinkling of their castanets. It was indeed
a strange, grotesque gathering, that was seen on the Plaza this
night,; a confused variety of costumes, the personal identity
of the wearer of each, concealed more or less by the black
masque. Here a merry contadina tossed tlie tambourine up-

ward, keeping time to the steps of her companion, whose bright
Poblita dress shone conspicuous in the crowd ; there, a fierce-
looking knight in armor, whispered a soft petition to some Span-
ish maiden ; while now and then, casting a shadow over the
gaudy costumes of those around, the dark, flowing robe of a
domino, might be seen moving in and out.
" What a free, unrestrained pleasure ! " said the Archduke
at last. "-Heaven bless the inventor of masques ! I cannot
stand to be merely a looker-on here, for I have 'caught the
Terpsichorean spirit. If your Highness," continued he, turn-
ing to the Archduchess, " will wait here with the good Count
for but one moment, I'll take a turn in the dance with that
meek-looking little peasant girl, you see by the pillar there ! "
The Archduke leapt lightly from the gondola, leaving the
Archduchess and the Count to watch his adventures from the'
retirement of their position, which was to Carlotta infinitely
more agreeable, than mingling with the promiscuous assembly on
the Plaza. To-night, the Archduchess had entered into all the
delightful freedom of an incognita, and her heart beat gladly,
as she felt that for a brief space royalty was left behind, and
she was as free as the peasant maiden upon her native hills.
Doubtless many a queenly heart has chafed, as did poor Marie
.Antoinette of France, under the gilded chains, and longed, as
a prisoned bird for the pure air of heaven, for liberty of
thought, speech, and action
Even the proudest feel sometimes, the blessing of being lost
in the great tide of humanity ; of being where the beating of
the heart is known to itself alone and its impulsive strokes
are not counted and measured by a stranger's ear, but only go
in with others to sound forth the great knell of time ; the bless-
ing of feeling that their actions are not of such moment, that
they are weighed and judged by their results, while the pure,
holy motives that prompt them go for naught.
While the Archduchess and Count Stromboli watched the
scene with interest, the Archduke. gave himself up to the feel-
ing that "a little nonsense now and then, is relished by the
wisest men," and entered with zest into the amusement.
Approaching the little peasant girl whom he had selected,-he
soon led her forward,and joined the dancers. In the pauses
of the dance - as- he whispered some happy .compliment in
her ear, and watched the nervous twitching of her, features,
which the masque, half lace and half velvet, but poorly con-
cealed, and marked her embarrassed modest movements - his-

- QROyPN JEWEL,                 6]


62              coW    JEWELS                CROWN JEWELS

own heart, in all the buoyancy and freshness of young man-
hood, danced at the impress which idle flattery and empty com-
pliments made upon this unsophisticated child of nature ; for
she was evidently 4 stranger in Venice, and was perhaps making
her debut at the carnival to-night.
" Do you live in Venice ?" questioned the Archduke, as they
paused a moment.
" No, no,"-said his companion, with a coquettish shake of
the curls that clustered about her shoulders; " we live at
Aboni, not far from Padua. I have long wanted to come to
Venice during the Carnival, and luckily, business brought us
here just now -my father and I, you know. But I am afraid
I've lost him / The music and lights have dazed us both so,
that we have become separated ; but I know he must be here
on the Plaza somewhere, and will find me afterwhile."
"And you don't feel afraid to be alone among so many
strangers?" said the Archduke, admiring the innocence that
gave such fearlessness.
"Oh, no ! I shall see my father again soon. And as for
these people, they are all thinking too much of themselves and
their own happiness to trouble me ; and," she added, lowering
her voice, " there are no Austrians or Germans on the Plaza,
I see."
" Then you hate Austria ? "
" Hate Austria?  What. a question for one Italian to ask
another ! But, sir, do you know anything about the Austrian
Viceroy, who they say is now in Venice ? and do you know
how we may manage to see him, for it is for that purpose we
have come here. I had, perhaps, better tell you about it. I.
have a brother, Pietro - a wild boy he is, too, but good-
hearted, you know - who a few days since, at Padua where he
has been going to school, got into great trouble with the Aus-
trian guard. His only offence was that at the public exhibition,
he recited-a little poem of his own composition, breathing love to
Italy, and hatred to Austria. No one knew but he was, going
to say a speech, like the others, until he came out with his
poem; there was a great noise and talk about it, and at last
the colonel of the Regiment at Padua, ordered his arrest, and
he is now at their barracks under guard. They needn't be so
frightened: Pietro is not Garibaldi indisguise ! Pietro was
wrong; but it isn't worth keeping him in arrest for. My fa-
tiher and I have come to see the Viceroy about it ; for they
say he is kind and good, and we feel sure, he will give us a.

discharge for Pietro, who I know will never write a rhyme
again 'so long as he lives !"
The Archduke had listened with interest to the girl's recital
of her trouble, and when she had finished, said with an amused
expression, -
" Well, that's a bad scrape! And so you want to see the Vice-
roy ? He is now Venice, and as I know him quite well, myself,
I think I can manage to present you to him, with little difficulty.
If you will be at the Ducal Palace, at the foot of the Giant's
Staircase to-morrow at twelve, I will see that your petition is
laid before the Viceroy."
" Oh, thank you ! thank you ! " cried the girl. " But," she
added after a moment's thought, "how shall I know you? for
I have not seen your face, and I will not remember your voice
well enough ?"
. The Archduke, bending down, slightly raised his masque so
that his partner caught a glimpse of his handsome face, and then
placed it quickly back again.
"Ah! I shall not forget you!" exclaimed his companion.
"See! there is my father now, looking for me. We shall come,
to-morrow!!"
The Viceroy consigned the innocent girl to the paternal care,
and warning her to be more cautious in future, and not get
lost again, quickly crossed the Plaza, and joined the Arch-
duchess and the Count, who were beginning to grow impatient
at his stay.
" A real Caliph adventure ! Haroun Al Raschid the Second !"
exclaimed the Archduke; "you shall hear it all to-morrow, so no
questions to-night. What is the play at La Fenice tonight ?
Lucrezia, is it not ? Will madam here give her consent to end
the evening there ?"
"'No, no !" cried the Archduchess and the Count in unison.
" Do you remember Orsini's late attempt at Paris ?" continued
the latter; "and there are bad men everywhere, ready to do
wicked deeds."
"IBah !" exclaimed the Archduke, "how fearful and timid
you have grown ! Would you seclude a man entirely from the
world, before insuring his life ? "
"Does your Highness -remember, though, the warning re-
ceived the day of your arrival in Venice of the disaffection
of the Counts Rochetti and Benvenuto ?" said Count Stromboli,
" and their designs upon your life? "

CROWN JEWELS.              63


it
04
sa
pr
th
bl
w'
gei
A
th
th
pr
ha
th
an
st
th
wa
th
an(
so!
wa
at
pri
pec
pi
'I
ano
twe
nu
tali
mop
the:
pli

URO WN JEWELS.
"And will your Highness please to remember, that upon the
e day, the Archduchess and your servant- the Archduke,
cmenaded as usual upon the Plaza without a guard, and with
se same noble gentlemen? And here we both are, flesh and
od breathing the breath of life still.!" replied the Archduke
h some impatience. " Upon my word ! " he continued, " you
up conspiracies worthy of a greater man ! But, my good
emidarus and my dear little Calphurnia must remember,
it we are not in Rome, neither am I Cesar ; and I don't
k these good Venetians bear me so much ill-will, as to im-
vise the Ides of March for my benefit, but if they should
ye against me such foul intent, I beg they will execute
ir purposes this night, so that I should at least, have the
solation of dying in good company."*
he Archduke's determination outweighed all objections ; so,
pping to the Ducal Palace to doff the domino and masque,
soon found themselves in their private, box at La Fenice;
ere the play had well-nigh reached its tragic ending.
wo hours later, and the sounds of merriment and joy
oughout the city were hushed, the theatres were closed,
all was quiet, save the occasional plash of the water, as
e lone gondola'passed up or down the Canal ! The Carnival
ended. When the Archduke and the Archduchess were
last in their chamber at the Palace, Maximilian, as he im-
ted his good-night kiss. upon the brow of his wife, whis-
ed, while a smile played upon his handsome face, -
Well, my little soothsayer, the Ides of March have come
gore ! The Carnival is ended."
Thank God ! " echoed Carlotta ; "and Caesar still lives ! "
he great clock of Venice was tolling forth the hour of
lve, and the Moorish figures in the tower of San Marco
bered the strokes on their dial of azure and-gold. The bat-
on of sacred pigeons came wheeling aid whirling in the air in
k military movement, descending at last on the Plaza for
r noontide feast of corn, which some gracious hand sup-.
d.  ~
wo figures might have been seen standing near the entrance
the Ducal Palace - the only persons on the piazzetta, save
police, who stop now and then, to question them concerning
ir mission.

CROW.N JEWELa.'

IS
-M

* Caximilian's own words.

In the bright-eyed, picturesque-looking maiden, we recognize
the peasant girl of the evening before; and the old man with
whom she is conversing is her father, who, clad in the humble
dress of a countryman, is a proud representative of his honest,
hard-working class.
" Margherita, Margherita !_" said the old man in a half
whisper, " I think we had better go ! Don't you see how the
police watch us ? No use waiting here. We'll never see the
Viceroy at this rate ! That oily-tongued Signor, was toying
with you last night just to get a smile, or a kiss from such a
foolish chit as he saw you was ! You ought to have let me
come alone to Venice, Margherita ! for all these grand sights
and the deceitful mummery of handsome. Signors, as you call
them, have set you daft!"
" Yes, yes!" exclaimed the girl, pettishly. "I don't doubt it
would be best to shut me up forever,and build a wall as high
as Babel around me, to keep me safe."
"Ah well !-" said her father, "it may be for Pietro's good
that we are here, but I think poor Giovanni will suffer !"
"Pish !" said Margherita, " Giovanni is not such a jealous
churl as ,to be angry if I look at another. He can trust me,
and I should think you might, too ! The stranger was kind,"
she continued, pouting out a pair of ruby lips that were as
tempting as two ripe cherries.
" See there ! see there ! " she exclaimed, as she looked up the
staircase. ' He is here before us, and doubtless we have kept
him waiting with  our idle chaffering," added Margherita,
with chagrin at the thought, as they began to go up the long
flight of steps.
"Well hemight wait," muttered the old man in-a surly tone,
not over-pleased at his daughter's anxiety, -" well he might
wait, for they make us wait long enough, these grandees ; and
no thanks we get, either, for our patience."
" So,.you are here ! " exclaimed Margherita's friend, as the
two reached the head of the staircase, and he showed them into
an ante-chamber near. " You wish to see the Viceroy? wait
here one moment, and you shall be conducted to him; " say-
ing which, he quickly left the room.
Margherita and her father looked around them with amaze-
ment. There were the beautifully frescoed walls, the work of .
Tintorello ; here and there a mirror filled a space ; while soft
divans, and inviting chairs, introduced for modern comfort,
stood around.

65


CROWY JEWELS.          OF

Margherita and her father remained standing, not daring
to seat themselves amid so much that was new, and grand,
and strange.
" Father," whispered the girl, " Aladdin's palace must have
been something like this; don't you think so ? "
"Ah yes ! this is what becomes of honest Italians' money ! "
complained the old man, who observed everything from a mat-
te -of-fact, utilitarian point of view;- "these are mighty fine
hings, and it's this trash that makes the grinding taxes."
"Taxes ! taxes ! " cried the girl; " the same old tune ! You
are in such a bad humor ; it's not likely you'll get much out of
Viceroy, if you keep on at this rate ! These things are
pretty ! I don't care whose money bought them !" And
Margherita continued to admire, while the old man nursed his
bad humor. He did not, indeed, like the great fascination the
city seemed to have for Margherita; to it she had never been.
before, and it had only been to get rid of her persuasion that
h had, brought her now ; and he had already begun to regret
that he had yielded -to her, for she would never be contented
Jag in, he knew, in her simple country home. And then Poor
Giovianni! her betrothed ! The old man sighed to the refrain,
that, -
"Maidens, like moths, are ever caught by glare."
While they stood in silence, each busy with their own
thoughts, inwarldy commenting upon the novelty of their posi-
tion, the immense doors at the side of the room glided, as if by,
magic, into the walls, and a stranger, stepping forward, begged
them to follow him. A flush overspread the girl's face, as she
missed the re-assuring voice of her friend, and she began to re.
gret her temerity, - began to wish-that she had let her father
come alone to see the Austrian Viceroy.
The stranger conducted them into the adjoining apartment,
wl'ere, in a state chair handsomely ornamented and slightly
el vated, sat a young, handsome man in uniform. By his side
was a beautiful lady, over whom twenty summers had scarcely
passed, and whose winning smile, and gentle bearing re-assured
thi beholder, by telling of the kindly heart beating within.
In the room, were three or four officers wearing the Aus-
trian uniform, and one or two gentlemen in the Italian citizens'
dr ss, among whom we recognize the Count Stromboli.
" The Viceroy, -His Highness, the Archduke Maximilian,

whom you wish to see !" exclaimed the man who ushered them
in.
The girl looked up and beheld her partner of the evening
before - the same handsome, genial face, and glad, noble eyes,
that she had seen on the Plaza San Marco. The look of tim-
idity gave place to a smile, as she, called out with some em-
barrassment, -
" Padre ! it is the Signor himself ! Sire ! " she cried, as she
turned to the Archduke, "and are you really the Viceroy ? "
"Yes, I am really the -Viceroy, my good girl, and I have
kept my promise that you should see him," he added, smiling.
"Now let ine present your father, there, who has not yet spo-
ken to me, to the Archduchess Carlotta. This is my bonnie
partner in last night's dance, your Highness."
With a cordial, cheerful manner, and a word of wcacome, the
Archduchess received the greeting of the old, man, and his
daughter.
" Sire," said the old man, who at last found voice to speak,
and felt that his first attempt must be' an apology for Margh-
erita, " my daughter here is a wayward girl, and has never
been to the city before. I trust you will pardon her boldness.
Hereafter, she will .remain at home, until ghe gains more dis-
cretion."
" Ah!t my good friend," said the Archduke, as he noted the
tears which stood in Margherita's eyes at this public reproof,
"1\ argherita is a good girl, and is guilty of no offence. And
th Archduchess and I will plead for her to come to Venice
again, at the next Carnival."
The smiles drove the tears away, as Margherita heard - the
Archduke's words, and she saw her father's stern face begin to
wear a softer look.
Leaving the Archduchess to interest the girl, Maximilian
turned his attention to the old peasant, and quietly engaged
him in conversation, concerning himself and his own affairs.
He drew[ from him the facts regarding his son Pietro's trouble,
and seeing that it was only a boyish indiscretion, and the of-
fender a'wild lad of fifteen, the Viceroy, anticipating the old
man's petition, gave him an official order for the release of his
son.
A half hour quickly passed; the old man, already half-way
disarmed of his prejudice against the Viceroy, was soon wonto
him by the interest he manifested, in the science of husbandry,
the grape-culture, wine-making, etc.-

s0

CROWN JEWELS


8                  CRO WV JEWELS.
In the meantime, the Archduchess Carlotta obtained from
argherita a sketch of her former life, her love for Giovanni,
ho proved to be the son of a grape-grower near them, and her
tlans for the future, the details of which the girl was happy to
relate, to so interested a listener.
When her father called to her that they must leave, the girl
tarted as if from a dream. As she made a low obeisance to the
rchduchess in parting, Carlotta took from h r own neck a
lender gold chain, and laying it about Margherita's shoulders,
aid to her softly, -.
"Wear it for -my sake, and don't forget the Viceroy."
"That she will not, nor will I," exclaimed the old peasant in
is blunt fashion. " Though I had heard much of the Viceroy's
oodness to my'spoor countrymen, yet, to be plain, I could not
elieve it. I could not believe, that any good could come from
ustria. I see I was wrong, and in the future, whatever may
e my feelings towards the Germans, I shall always say.
ustria has at least one noble son, and he, the Archduke Max-
milian.'                           S
" And remember, sire," said Margherita, "the Archduchess
nd yourself, that go where you may, you bear with you the
rayers and blessings of two hearts -my father's and my
own."
" And Pietro's too," said her father, who'could not let poor
Margherita's speech pass without correction. "Pietro's too."
"You forget Giovanni," said the Archduchess, smiling, as
he girl, who blushed at her words, followed her father out of
he room.
.            ..                .     .    .    .
Though the people of - Italy respected the Austrian Viceroy
as a man, and loved and honored him- for the high, lofty, and
upright principles that urged him to deeds of generous and lav-
ish benevolence, yet the old-established prejudice to Austria,
the old cry, " We want Italy for the Italians, and not for the
Germans," was still in their hearts. Though it might be for-
gotten for the moment., as in the instance narrated, it was still
there ; 'the desire for liberty entwined about their very heart-
strings, fibre, and sinew of their being.
The labors of that crafty, shrewd statesman, Count Cavour,
of the great warrior, Joseph Garibaldi, and the valorous hero',
Victor Emmanuel, who was esteemed the rightful King of Italy,
were beginning to show promise of a harvest-beginning to
discover signs, that the day-dream of patriots, would in the

CR0 WN JEWELS.

i

69

future, perhaps not distant, shape itself into a palpable reality.
The despair that had followed the peace of Villa Franca; had
produced one good result - had taught the people one good les-
son; had shown them that only in unity=- unity of purpose
and action, the hope of freedom -freedom fronfthe "Adriatic
to the Alps "- could be realized. All the minor duchies must
be consolidated, and united under one ruler ; a man, in whom all
had faith and confidence, before the Italians would be strong
enough to become an independent people, and sustain a govern-
ment, a literature, a religion, a language all their own.
It was not Austria alone, that stood in the way of this; but
at Rome, the Pope himself, with the Papal jurisdiction, was an
obstacle almost insurmountable, and one that was not easily
to be gotten rid of.
During his short 'administration, scarcely two years, as
Viceroy, the Archduke Maximilian, with keen discernment,
and acute observation, saw the danger ahead, and the trouble
brewing for Austria.   He knew the true beating of the
Italian 'heart, and was not misled, or blinded by their im-
pulsive vivas. He knew that the clouds were gathering that
heralded a revolutionary storm; and knew, too, that the men
who were urging, and pressing the people to action were not
mad demagogues, or fanatical partisans ; but grave, shrewd,
sober-thinking statesmen, who, through years of study, in exile,
watching and learning the strong policies of other nations, had
perfected their plans, and were determined, at least, to risk the
attempt of giving to Italy, a free constitution, and a ruler from
her own people, In vain did the Archduke urge these facts
upon the Cabinet at Vienna; in vain did he .tell them of the
powerful agencies at work in Sardinia; and in vain he foretold
that Austria's. loss would be Sardinia's gain. Austria would
not and perhaps could not, understand the true status. Italy
seemingly was quiet, and it was hard to believe,' that, beneath
the surface, a volcano was seething and boiling, with revolution-
ary elements hurrying it into eruption.
Still there was a clinging to the old Metternich theory of
"keeping Italy ignorant, and therefore governable" Austria did
not remember that the words " Liberty and Revolution" were
the " Open Sesame ! "- the pass-word that made the Italians
one.
Poets4 kindled in secret the patriotic fire, and nursed the.
longing for national freedom, by enthusiastic strains of the


CROWN JEWELS.

artial muse ; and the cry, "Italy is not dead ! " wakened the
c hoes in the hearts of her sleeping sons.

"Noo, no1 'tis not the silence of the grave.
Hark I o'er our shore the waves of hope are breaking ;
We yet have hearts to beat, and hands to save,
They only need the signal for awaking.
Italy dead?. the memory of the past
Still bids us hopes of brighter days to cherish.
Strike, then, my lyre ! thy loudest note, thy last,
And bid her sons throw off the yoke, or perish."

Such appeals, outbursts from the despairing hearts of her
poetic sons, yet still breathing a shadow of hope, were not
ade in vain; but whispered from hill to hill, echoed in the
g een valleys, taught by the gray-haired sire to the lisping babe,
were messengers at work, speeding the moment when the
c11 should be obeyed. Italy was determined to be free, and it
must be some master stroke of policy, that would have power to
avert it.
In the meantime, the Archduke Maximilian as Viceroy
did as .seemed best. Knowing that a system of oppression
and restraint of personal liberty -which was urged by some in
Austria as the proper course -would but hasten the outburst,
and bring the course of events to. an immediate crisis, he con'
tinued the just and humane policy that characterized his entire
a d   stration, hoping to delay, and if possible entirely avert,
the revolution that seemed inevitable.
There were at Vienna, however, carping statesmen, who, dis-
approving and finding groundsfor censure in the conduct of all,
save themselves, did not lack for complaint against the Viceroy
o Lombardy. and Venice, but exerted. their influence, for the
removal of a man who, they urged, by giving too much license
t the Italians, was encouraging them in revolution, or- in. the
tove of liberty, which tended to the same end.'
So the Archduke was recalled; and scarcely had he left Italy
before his prophecies were fulfilled. The storm of '59 came ;
a d, when it was too late to be of advantage, Austria saw her
e ror of judgment. Italy, with her strong ally, Napoleon --
a name that like a shadow of evil haunts the House of Hapsburg,
on the bloody plains of Magenta and Solferino gave the proud
echo to the cry, "We will have Italy for the Italians, and not for
the Germans!"

CHAPTER VII.

N a high rocky promontory, jutting out over the waters
of the Adriatic, that rest in quiet at its base, or lash
and .surge in storm-ridden fury, a few leagues - re-
moved from the seaport of Trieste, stood the castle of
Miramar, the home'to which, returning from Italy, the Arch-
duke conducted the Archduchess Carlotta.
The choice of the situation, the bold, determined position of
the castle, which, while exposed to all the fury of wind- and
wave, seemed to bid them defiance in its proud security, spoke
the character of the man, its master. It was the delight of the
Archduke to triumph over, and put down-difficulties.   In
spite of the bald, bleak region over. whose heights the un-
friendly sea-winds were ever sweeping with chilly breath, by
assiduous care and attention, the surrounding slopes had
been tastefully wooded, and the rising and falling ground
was beautifully laid out, and'adorned with lovely flowers, while
each hillside near, in the least protected from the cold, luxu-
riated in flourishing fruit-trees, the culture oJ which was the
Archduke's especial care.
Notwithstanding all his philosophy, the withdrawal from the
Viceroyship of Italy, under such unfavorable circumstances,
was a mortifying blow to the pride of Maximilian; and though
he kept the misanthropical feelings of his heart locked from the
world, they were not the less bitter. Pei-haps no world-weary
traveller, harsh and cynical from the injustice of his fellow-men,
ever sought with more eagerness, the shades of his 'boyhood's
home, than did Maximilian turn to Miramar, where all was
peace and quiet. He had never resigned his position at the
head of the Austrian navy, but still held his admiralship, the
duties of which he resumed upon his return to Trieste. As
there was no active duty on the sea, he was enabled to em-

70

CROWN JEWELS.

+:a
'.r
"+N
NFL
t  +
"  b
+ + by
r.,"s
sj
r


CR OWN JEWEL&amp;           73

ploy a large portion of his time in adorning and beautifying
his home, which it was his ambition to make an earthly para-
dise. There, he could be free; there, he could gather about him
the friends that appreciated him for his high, true qualities, and
his goodness of soul. It was at this period of his life, that the
friendship between the young Lieutenant Tegethoff, of the
Austrian navy, and the Archduke began ; and to this gallant
officer, whose talent Maximilian respected and appreciated,
Austria has -since owed a debt of gratitude for the staunch ser-
vice rendered in the Danish war, and his devotion and success
have won for him an Admiral's command. Count Isolani also
had returned from his long cruise, and was a welcome.guest at
Miramar, for both the Archduke and the Archduchess, who had
forgiven, and laughed at his little er&amp;se d'amour, regarded him
with high favor.S
While the Archduke gathered his own friends around him,
the pleasure of the Archduchess was not forgotten. Of the
ladies in waiting, the accomplished Countess Kollonitz and the
Countess Zichy were her constant companions, and the Arch-
duke scarce knew a dearer friend. than the Count Frangois
Zichy, who was likewise a member of the household, at Mira-
mar.
Though the castle was the resort of the learned, the intellec-
tual, and the agreeable, from all parts of Germany, to whom its
hospitalities were dispensed with lavish hands, the Archduke
did not forget the studies which had been pursued from his
youth with so much ardor. With a mind enriched by travel,
and observation of men and manners; a soul that had drunk
deep at the fountains of ancient lore; gifted with a retentive
memory, a poetic fancy, and a painter's eye, Maximilian became
now a man of letters, and penned the beautiful thoughts that
in the future will be given to posterity, and, giving as they do, a
true insight into his character, will embalm his name in all
true hearts.'
His surroundings, uniting, as they did, the wild and pictur-
esque in nature, with the beautiful in art, fostered the. poetic
genius in his soul.. The castle itself was elegantly fitted up
with beautiful parlors, boudoirs, and picture galleries filled
with choice paintings selected by .the Archduke and Arch-
duchess in Italy ; while' without, in the extensive grounds,
nestled in sheltered nooks, embowered in shrubbery, or climb-
ing vines, were- charming little summer-houses, where often
the Archduchess, wearying over her easel and brush, in

the little studio within, would spend the long morning hours,
surrounded by her ladies, enjoying the delightful breeze. that
came inward from the sea; and oftentimes, one of the party, in
the pauses of conversation, read aloud for the entertainment of
the others, who toyed listlessly with their delicate broidery, or
fancy work.
Two or three marble steps led from the gravelled walk down
to the water's edge, and at the foot' of these was moored a
beautifully decorated skiff, always at the command of the in-
mates of the castle ; and scarcely an afternoon passed, when
there might not have been seen a merry party in the little boat,
gliding over the waters of the gulf, the gentlemen, who were
almost always naval officers, turning the helm that directed
their course. It was indeed a home, a life for happiness and
love !
"How was it, your Highness," said the Countess Zichy,
one afternoon, as they were returning, drifting, from an excur-
sion on the water, -1"how was it, for you have never told us,
that you came to select this site for Miramar? "
Ah ! Isolani there remembers ! " cried the Archduke to the
Count. " And you, Tegethoff, too, were with us, were you
not?  Well, Countess, you shall hear the story. It was  yo
hear  tory  It as araw,
gusty dayin October, some years ago, when a party of gentle
men, officers of the navy, left Trieste on a fishing excursion,
fully prepared and equipped for a 'grand haul,' to use the nau-
tical term. We had coasted along the gulf some- miles, with
indifferent success, when our pleasure was cut short by the ris-
ing wind, which, gathering strength and fury, at last swept
over the water. a regular Bora, endangering seriously our
safety, by threatening destruction to our sails. We put into-
first- one little arm of the sea, and then another, in -hope of
finding a shelter, sufficient to protect us from the terrible wind
which was lashing the sea into madness. Almost in despair, at
being again and again disappointed, we, had nearly abandoned
hope, and given ourselves up. to our fate, when, suddenly turn-
ing a promontory we glided into a .huge cleft, sheltered. and
protected by a natural wall of rock, and within which, -the sea
lay still and waveless. Seeing that we should have to -spend
some hours there, we managed to. land, and after securing our
yacht, some of the party employed themselves by lighting a
fire and drying their clothing, for we were all thoroughly wed
from the dashing spray. In company with one or two others,
Preferred to explore the country around a little, anid wan'

C OSTN' J.N WEL


.ROWN JEWEL.             75

74            CR0 N JEWEL~s

dering from one elevation to another, hardly knowing whither
we went we at last found ourselves on the top of the promon-
tory, from which, for the first time, we took in the magnificent
view of the sea, which the Castle of Miramar now commands;
beautiful, or rather with a touch of the sublime, it had then,
roaming and boiling like a seething caldron, until, lost in the
distance, the waves mingled and merged themselves into a
seeming calm. And there, too, midway between sky and earth,
hung the cloud-capped Alps, the thick mist rolling up their
wooded sides the towering summits lost in golden vapor. I
was just at. the age when young manhood begins to prospect
or the future," continued the Archduke with a smile. "I had
een a Princess -"
"It's a long story, Countess,- and you are growing tired, are
you not ? " interrupted the Archduchess, slyly.
" No, no ! " cried they all in unison, as they caught' the
Archduchess' words, and noted her face, slightly tinged with
rimson at the drift the Archduke had given to his story.
'No, no: continue, your Highness ! "
"I had seen a Princess," said the Archduke, merrily again,
'that held, by some unearthly art, a magic spell over my heart ;
nd her spirit haunting my thoughts taught me to long for a
ome, -and, shall I say it ? its chiefest ornament; which Tupper
ells us, - and I believe in Tupper, very strongly,  'is a good
ife.' And so, when that view from the cliff met my gaze, I
as so enraptured- that I inwardly determined there to set up
y Lares and offer my devotions.. All wondered at the choice,
nd declared it so cold, bleak, and unprotected that.it could
ever be improved. But I thought differently; and, charmed
ith the wild, picturesque beauty of the situation, adhered. to
y selection. Under my own supervision the castle was built.
Its style of architecture, I think, is well suited to the position.
any natural difficulties have already succumbed, and in a few
ears, Miramar can be made, I think, as lovely a palace home,
ithin and without, as Germany can boast."
" Yes, indeed," cried the Countess; "Miramar can even .ow
ear the palm!"  And her words were echoed by all, as they
came in sight of the rising turrets, glittering.with the gleams
of fading glory. "Nothing dull; no.sameness, to weary the
eye."
A beautiful sunset view it was, that called forth from the
arty in the boat, anew, the sentiment of admiration. First,

the Castle of Miramar itself, like the Temple of Fame upon
its rock of ice, loomed up in grand repose against the solemn
sky; its stony walls lighted by the golden rays of the depart-
ing sun, that, climbing the summit of the, distant Alps, lin-
gered there, to send\ a quiver of arrows over the perforated
cornice, and the carved architrave of the pillars supporting the
balcony, and to strike with glinting splendor the glassy faces
that, from the arched windows, looked-out upon the quiet sea.
Above turret and tower, but still beneath the sunlight, waved
the flag of Austria, in playful dalliance, coquetting with the
evening breeze. Coming down to the edge of the stone parapet,
that walls out and keeps back the encroaching wave, was the
sloping garden, with its parterres- of lovely flowers, forever
dew-impearled by the silvery spray of the marble fountain in
the centre.  Back from the roses, in mock retirement, the
stately oleander, the Oriental inaguey, the wonderful cactusfrom
the Dalmatian plains, lifted their heads in proud dignity;
then, in full view for some distance, now:lost in the .descent,
now rising with the height, was the graveled road, winding its
serpentine course to the entrance of the castle. In front of
all, the sea was at rest, and stretched out, an unbroken sheen, into
the misty distance; the wavelets, worn  out with the merry
dance of the day, were lulling themselves into quietude, to the
soft chimings of the rose-tinted shell. Now and then a white-
winged bird flitted across the water, skimming its quiet surface
in its swift passage, then mounting upward to the chang-
ing sky -- that begins to lose its golden hue in twilight' purple,
winnowing on the air, showers the crystal drops from its
plumed wg, and then away ---away -over the hill-tops to its
home,no mortal knoweth whither.
For some moments, the little skiff floated over the. still wa-
ter, no member of the party breaking the silence, each drink-
ing in with rapture the beauty of the scene before theg. At
last, they reach the marble steps that lead up into the garden,
and the evening zephyr comes down 'to meet them, her breath
sweet with the mingled fragrance of roses and jessamines,
The skiff was fastened to- its moorings; and as theparty
reachd the summer-house, half way up the garden,theqqiet
moon rose up out of the water behind, and sent its silvery
teams over land and sea. Lightly, the creeping vinesthat
overhung the trellis work of nature's little temple, where they
rested, .swa.ed to and fro in the breeze that stealthily crept
erhe footsteps of happiness; and the s eetuvoiceof the

I-


6                 CROWN JEWELS.
:ght-bird, began its twilight song among the interlacing ten.
rils.
."Ah!" said Countess Kollonitz, "we should make our vo-'
ive offerings here to Nature; for she' has been very gracious
and lavish in the display of her varied charms this evening."
"Ali, Countess !" said the Archdchess, "you, who are * so
o d of moonlight and romance, should have been with us in
.taly, in Venice, in our night excursions on the Grand Canal.
s the gondola flew swiftly over the water, or floated idly on,
s suited one's pleasure, you looked down and saw a perfect
eflection of the city above -gleaming lights, silver-crested
owers, and all; or, turning into some dark passage for a mo-
ent everything was wrapped in gloom, then out into the
oonlight again; passing now a darksome pile, inanimate, still,
and deserted, and again looking through the open windows into
ome brilliantly lighted palace, the home of nobility, its illumi-
ated halls resounding with the sound of festive merriment.
h ! truly in Venice the night is radiant with glory, and we
re willing to see her wear her starry crown, calling herself
ueen over the'Day !"
"It cannot be more beautiful than this Paradise !" exclaimed
he Countess, when the Archduchess finished speaking. "We
re almost willing to cry out: 'Oh !. that it were always
-ight! "'
"Moonlight, music, love, and flowers," said the Archduke, as
e, with the gentlemen, came up from the parapet, where they
ad lingered a moment behind the ladies. " Count Zichy, Teg-
'thoff, Isolani; we have all here, save the music. "Give us a
'ong ! Speak to them, ladies; see 'if you can move them !
"A song ! " cried' all in unison. "Count Isolani, one of your
Tyrolese songs ! "                                    .
"And what shall it be?" said the Count. "A Sappho strain
rom a mountain maiden's heart, or something from our Niebe-
ungentied, telling of the sorrows of Gunther and Brunhildis?"
S"No, no ! not that fearful tiresome thing, filled up with ter-
rible, vengeful pictures, and wrathful deeds ! " exclaimed the
Countess Zichy.
" Why, Countess, it is our great heroic poem, our epic,.our
German Iliad,.handed, down from antiquity," replied the Count.
" A very German Iliad !" cried the Countess, "and 'Heaven
help those 'who have the patience to get through with it 1 Sig-
fred, - Gunther, - Brunhildis, and what name 'did, the other
heroine glory in ? "

CROW1 JEWELS.                       77
"Ah! well, Countess," interrupted the Archduchess, " we
must beg that you and Count Isolani postpone your recondite
discussion until we have been gratified by getting our song.
We all grow impatient ! Count Isolani, we are waiting; give
us the mountain maiden's ditty."
Count Isolani began, in a rich clear voice, that charming
Tyrolese melody:
"Son benia pastorella,
Che acenzde ogni mattino ;
Eo,*re*un ceteitno
Di freeche frutto e flor;
Olh viene al prirno al-bore,
Epoma ruggia dose,
Venie al ino giar n.
A-/tn I A-htnI
"I am a mountain maiden;
From shady woodland bowers
Fresh fruit and fragrant flowers
I gather every morn.
Come, as the dawn is breaking,
Around my garden straying,
When summer winds are playing,
To cull bright roses there.
A-hu ! A-hu I
A-hu I!
The Count gave the true mountain . echo to the refrain,
"Ahu! A-hu !" which brought forth, not only a eulogy
upon the song, but on the glorious country of the- Tyrol; the
noble character of its people, who, with the fear of God, unite
attachment to their Imperial Sovereign, the Emperor of Aus-
tria, and an undying love of country.
" Count Isolani, how long since you left Innsbriick ? It
was. your birthplace, was it not ? " asked the Countess Zichy,
while the others continued their conversation.
" Yes ; I was born in the old castle near the city, a perfect
mountain eyrie, that had been the home of my ancestors for
years. I left, to go to Vienna when not more than fourteen
years of age, and have been a wanderer ever since. My father
died soon after I went away, and rests in the vault of the old
chapel beside my ihother and sister, and I am theonly one left
of the name. My heart beats back with an earnest love, to
the home of my early boyhood; for the time was, when I knew
the murmuring echo of each stream that dashed through the
hollow gorges, as the voice of a; friend, and clomb. the moun-
tain's rugged sides with the sure footing of a chamois hunter, and,
with manly pride swelling my young heart, brought back my,


8        .OO WY JEWELS.
t ophies to the castle. But now, all is changed ; the castle
i falling. to decay ; only the old servants remain, and they,
stem mournful relics of a past that it fills my heart with sad-
ness to think of. I have been there once or twice, since my
father's death. Once, his Highness, the archduke, did me the
lonor to accompany me. The Tyrol and near Innsbrick, you
know, was a famous hunting ground for the Emperor Maxi-
milian of old; and the whole country is filled with memories of
his daring deeds, and his wonderful escapes from death."
" Yes," said the Archduke, who caught the Count's last
words. "At Martinswand, which towers, an abrupt precipice,
over the Inn, but a f w miles from Innsbruck, the great Maxi-
mian came indeed near- losing his life. Led away in pursuit
o a chamois among the rocks above, he, missed his footing,
fell to the verge of the precipice, which towered eighteen hun-
deed feet above the water below, and only saved himself by
cIinging to a ledge of rock, with his head downwards. In
this perilous position it seemed impossible to those below to
tender him assistance. He was- at last, rescued, by a bold
huntsman, Zips, of the little village Zirl, under the foot of the
mountain, whose intrepidity the Emperor rewarded by bestow-
ing upon him a pension for life, with the title of Count ' Hol-
1 uer Von Hohenfelsen. The loyal people of Zirl have 1hol-
1 wed a cave in the rock where this event occurred, and have
paced, in it a crucifix, which, though it is eighteen feet high,
is so far above the post road below, as scarcely to. be visible.
I olani and I visited the place together, shortly after our re-
t rn from our first travels."
"And do you think, Count Isolani," said the Countess Kol-
1 itz, "that you will never go back to the Tyrol to live ? "
"Though I carry in my heart the love of the green hills and
rt~gged mountain heights," said Count Isolani, "I fear this sea-
man's life has taught me to rove -to love adventure. But ; "he
continued, turning to the Archduke, "if, following the desti-
nes of his Highness here, on land or sea, acting always in the
h   ble capacity of Sancho Panza, I should be so fortunate as
t find some fair Dulcinea, who will be content to think her-
s lf happy with me,- the bats and birds may yet be frightened
fom the corners of the' old castle in the mountains, and its
cobwebbed halls may find new echoes, in the sounds of joy."
" God speed you !" cried the Countess. " But I wonder will
tl e Archduke ever 'tear himself from the Archduchess and
1iramar, to seek adventure again ?"

CROWN JEWELS.
" Ah, yes ! " said Lieut. Tegethoff; "do you not know we al-
ready have in view a voyage to Brazil ."
"And we are to be left here in quiet retirement?" replied
the Countess inmnock anger. "But how very modest the Arch-
duke is ! " she continued, as he and the Archduchess gave a
listening ear to her playful raillery. "Did you not notice just,
now, that he. spoke of the Emperor Maximilian as the great
Maximilian ?"
" He wants u to distinctly understand," said the Archduchess,
who till now had been conversing with Count Zichy, that he
lays, as yet, no claim to the title!"
" As yet," said Lieut. Tegethoff. "His Highness has five years
before him in which to strive against his ancestor. You know
Caesar had done nothing before he reached thirty-five.".
" And who knows what five years may do ? Who knows, Te-
gethoff, Isolani, but we may discover a new world in our next
voyage ?" said the Archduke.
Of which," said Count Isolani, laughing, "we would take im-
mediate possession, and establish thereon a kingdom, with His
Highness as the ruler."
" And certainly, Your Majesty," said Countess Kollonitz,
turning to the Archduchess," would give us all honorable po-
sitions in your court?"
" Yes, yes!" cried the Archduchess. "You and Countess
.Zichy should be my first maids of honor, and Count Zichy
grand chamberlain. What a model court we should have!"
"I would respectfully suggest," said the Archduke, smiling
to its members in expectancy, "that we adjourn to the drawing-
room. 'The night is growing chilly ; and besides, its after effects,
the moonlight, I am afraid,is too conducive to sentiment, or
rather sentimentalism, for so august an assemblage."
The proposition of the Archduke met with a ready assent,
and the evening hours were passed within the castle ; - a contim-
nation of lively repartee, and unrestrained pleasantry.
Dream on, happy hearts, in all the joyous fervor of the soul!
Let no dark-wing'd messenger of Time 4in 'the bright vision,
or cast a shadow over the fairy-like mirage of the Future !


CR0 W .JEWELS.

Si

CR0 WY JEWELS.

a
s5
ti
fi
ti
f,
t
g:
ei
t .
g
ti
h
t

II,

CHAPTER VIII.

T is an impressive thought, when, in contemplating the
waving trees anc'budding flowers, that glorify the world
around us, we bring to mind the truth, that the very
I  spot of green sward upon which we stand, has been, at
time almost exhausting the history of man, covered by the'
rging waters of the rolling flood.; and that we, ourselves,
'.th the people of "the earth, are directly and respectively de-
ended from the Shem, Ham, and Japhet who were saved in
e Ark of Noah's building. It isscarcely in the power of hu-
an reason, to make forcible home-application of points and
cts so remote; yet the great cosmogonic chain that encircles
e universe, and .links the living present with the dead past,
rnishes the data by which theorists, and archeologists solve
eir problems, and give strength to the foundation, upon
ich modern history builds its Temple of Antiquity.
A subject worthy the mind of a Newton, it is, testing the er-
ition of a Selden, to trace the nations of the earth from the
eat one Father in Eden; to follow our first parents out of
e beautiful' garden, with its silver-winding river, wandering
ward in great grief and tears, mourning the loss of earthly
ernity and bewailing their heritage of. sin and death; follow
em, not as Adam and Eve of Biblical story, but as our
ather and our Mother, erring, weak, and frail, their. human
arts throbbing with anguish, and their souls bursting with
ony at the weight of their punishment, as it first takes tan-
ble shape, and confronts them, in the person of their arch ene-
y, Death, whom they see gloating over the pulseless form of
eir .well-beloved son, our brother Abel; and they all power-
ss to stay his hand. In the distance they behold Cain in
e grasp of Sin, fleeing from the bloody work of his fratricidal

hand, bearing the stamp of a dark and evil destiny, upon a brow
that, like Lucife 's, had lost "its god-like cast."  Continue
with them, until -Adam and Eve themselves pass away from
the earth, and their children's, children had multiplied unto
the tenth generation, and had populated the earth; and then
in the pride of their being and strength - for "there were
giants in those days "- they filled the land with iniquity and
-vain-glorying, forgetting to serve the Creator, so that "the ways
of man pleased not the Lord, nor found favor in His sight ;" and.
repenting that He had made man, God sent the destroying
waters of the flood, that, abating not from fifteen cubit's depth
in the space of one hundred and fifty days, swept 'from the
face of the earth all record of life--whether it were of man, or
beast, or creeping thing-save the chosen few, that were ordained
from the dawn of time to become the great progenitors of the
human family. Again, the historic record tells us, that, as time
passed on, the memory of the flood grew dim in the hearts of
those that again gave life to the earth, and they, too, began-to
boast of their power, and gathered themselves in might together,
and laid the foundat40n of their Temple of Folly. Alas ! how
many human hearts even now, in vaunting esteem of the strength
that lies in mighty self, doth similar deeds! But .God turned
the work of the ancient fathers, to naught and laughed to
scorn their efforts to reach to Heaven, as in confused amaze-
ment they stood, and saw that there was One 'who ruled in
power over all.
The tree began to put forth branches; at Babel began the
separation of the human race. Brother spake unto brother
in strange accents ; and the child mayhap, knew not the
voice of the father. From the land of Shinar, the Lord scat-
tered the people of different tongues, throughout the whole
earth.
The classification of the language of the early nations, the ef-
fort to bring order out of confusion, has been a task puzzling the
brains of learned and erudite philologists for centuries past. They
bring to us, as the result of their studies, and gleanings from the
Biblical record of the Indo-European family, three great di-
visions of tongues ; the Semitic, supposed to have been spoken
by the descendants of Shem; the Aryan, and the Sanscrit ; these
were enlarged and grafted upon, according to the development
of human ideas and the social wants of man; and from them,
came the classic phrase of the ancient Greek, the majestic
tatial of the Roman, and later the smoothly flowing tones with
4*


CR0 IiVJEWELS.                83

82             CROWN JEWELS.

i
' i

l

which the modern Italian woos his inamorata , the sprightly
accents of the versatile French, in which flash, and sparkle the
brilliant bon mots of an Imperial court; and, too,-we forget not
the Red man, who first roamed the hills of America, and pene-
trated the depths of her forests before Civilization had pressed
her foot thereon, where the birds of the wild-wood, the breath
of the wind wailing through the solemn pines, murmured of
freedom; we forget not that, the Indian's rude Druidical in-.
vocation, to the "Great Spirit " points likewise to Babel as its
natal, day.
From one fountain came all the devious streams of life,
separating, like the tributaries of a mighty river, one. deepens
and widens as it flows onward, fertilizing the plains and meadows
through which it passes, until the song of the honest yeoman
is heard echoing over its wide-spread waters ;- while another
winds its sinuous course, away -away, losing itself amid the deep
solitude of nature's uncultivated fields, beyond the reach of hu-
man call with no echo save that of its own in laughter voice, or
deep-sounding basso, as in some dark ravine its concentrated
waters form a miniature Niagara;- both, streams of life flow on
to the great ocean of Eternity, and there must unite again.
Whether it be the Siberian on his native steppes, the Indian
on. the Aztec plains ; the European gracing a modern court -
one truth comes home, "all men are brothers! "
The question still is mooted, and engrosses the attention of
antiquarians, -how this New World was first populated. The
course taken by the wandering tribes of Asia, when they began
their journeying, with their faces turned to the Far West, has
yet to be based upon surer foundation than mere conjecture.
Leaving untouched, the-various hypotheses - for such they still
remain, -by which different ingenious Orientalists have en-
deavored to solve the problem; leaving to the intelligent read-
er, who may feel interested in the point, to draw his own
conclusion, and make his own decision whether the tribe that
peopled first the 'American continent, migrated from Siberia
across Behring's Straits, and thence scattered in time from Hud-
son's Bay southward, through the tropical regions of Mexico and
Peru, to the frosts of Patagonia; or, lending ear to the opinions,
of Diodorus Siculus, Plato, and other learned ancients, who
held that at one time there existed in the Atlantic Ocean a.
broad island ; that the seas flowing' between it and the
mainland Were not too expansive, to defy the lmited navigation
of the ancient seafaring Asiatic;, who, in their voyages dscov-

ered the same continent which Columbus.afterwards.claimed the
honor of touching first ; that this fabulous island which lay be-
tween, was finally submerged, cutting off the communication, and
leaving only rocks and shoals to mark its watery burying-place,
and they, too, in time were lost; - knowing neither the truth
of this, nor the fact that whether languages, customs, manners,
etc., of the aboriginal North Americans bear most resemblance
to those of the ancient Hebrews, Hindoos, Phenicians, or Greek ;
and not willing altogether to conclude with Voltaire and Lord
Kames, who, finding irreconcilable  difficulties in the way of,
every theory, "summarily disposed of the whole matter by as-
serting boldly; 'that America was not peopled from any part
of the Old World"'- amid so many contending opinions, we
leave the whole, and pass on ; only suggesting that the knotty
question will doubtless ever remain enveloped in the twilight
of ages, and will form fruitful and profitless theme for specu-
labion and research to the wise men of generations yet unborn
though destined to be ever among the many things which God
in His Providence keeps back from the eye of human wisdom.
Brushing aside the dust and cobwebs that hang about, and
obscure the history of the North American continent previous
to the discover of Christopher Columbus, we find the single
fact, that it was inhabited by wandering, barbarous savages.
Further than this we know nothing. In the fifteenth century,
after the discovery, we are told that in the New World civili-
zation had almost entirely confined itself to the regions in the
North known as Mexico; and Peru, in the South; a fact, rea-
sonably established, when we remember that an agricultural
people,  for such they were - would naturally locate in that
portion of country where their pastoral labors were most
bouitifully rewarded. In Mexico, and Peru, were found the
grandest monuments of art, which was not unknown to this
stranger people. From the glowing descriptions. given of
their antiquities; the extensive cities of forty thousand inhab-
itants surrounded and protected by strong.- walls; the many
buildings of stone and- lime, with 'lofty white towers; temples
of. worship, ornamented with painting and carving; with long
flights of stairs leading out to the courtyards; the House of
the Nuns at Chichen and the House of the Governor at Uxmal;
their tribunals of justice, and table of laws, - all these relics of
v .
former greatness, which Time's finger has not entirely gbliterat-
*ed, and whose existence is testified to, by the wgadering E~uro-
pearl of the past centuries~ a well as tlhe traveller of theprweseuth


84                 CROWI' JEWELS.
ay - all tend to establish the fact, that previous to our knowl-
dge of the New World, it was inhabited by a people wjho had
stablished for themselves a government, framed a system of
aws, and who possessed habits of refinement and civilization
hat.would compare favorably with the empires of the East ; and
t would require no extraordinary flight of the imagination,' to
elieve that in these tropical countries there may have existed
cities, which in splendor and magnificence rivalled Babylon and
ineveh. of great renown; and, as over them, the desolating,
rophecies of Jeremiah were sounded, so in the Western Hem-
sphere the wickedness of the evil-doers may have been visited
wrath upon their mighty cities.,
History seems but to repeat itself. in regular cycles ; is ever
assing around the same orbit. The first written ideas of every
action we find expressed by hieroglyphical symbols; and as in
gypt we are pointed to pyramids and obelisks, to whose enig-
atical characters the learning of 'Champollion has at last fur-
' hed a key,so in the New World-perhaps wrongly so called
the same curious relics of an indefinite past, at Tezcuco, Co-
an, Uxmal, etc., are all eloquent with remains of departed glory;
nd though about the homes of these people hang no associations,
o stirring recollections such as animate the ruins of Carthage,
f Athens, and of Rome ; yet the mute voices in the crumbling
aults of Mexico, would fain tell us that painting, sculpture,
architecture, all the arts which Greece has given to the world,
ad lived and died with them. In the olden time, before the
European touched their shores, may not the voice of a De.
mosthenes have wakened the echoes of a Mexican -forum,
which was ornamented by the skill of artists equalling, in the
estimation of their people, Phidias or Praxiteles? Yes ! surely
orators, warriors, statesmen, and artists, glory, ambition, and
beauty had lived and passed away on the new continent, and
the relics which are scattered over the hill-tops of Mexico and
entral America serve only to tell us of Time's impenetrable
mysteries; they stand as crumbling sphinxes, whose builders
might have taught to the world lessons of science, of astrology,
of astronomy, that Would startle a Newton, and beauties of art
that would reanimate a Raphael or Buonarotti. 'Sic trouvsit
gloria mundi !" Greatness live and dies ! Even now the In-
dian guide who points out these relics of his forefathers' splen.
dor can but answer the traveller's wondering questions in the
mournful echo, " Quien sabe ?"
Following ge~ 'gg* pSpisk lustory, we learn' that the

CROWN JEWELS.

Southern plains were first settled by an ILdian tribe known as
the Toltecs,, who, from an ancient city known as Tula, near
the northern limits of -Mexico, dispersed themselves in the
surrounding country.  The city of Tula, which they had
well-nigh abandoned, was from time -to time- the nucleus of
many nomadic tribes, none of whom held much sway. In the
lapse of years, the Aztecs came from the North, at the com-
mand of their god, which they bore with them in their
journeyings, together with the Shekinah, upheld by their priests.
An eagle guided th-eir wanderings, going, as the pillar of cloud
by day, and of fire by!night, directing their course across the
plains, that bear even now the Aztec name, until at last,
drooping its pinions, and bowing its crested head, it rested on
a gigantic nopal-tree; indicating thereby, that it had led them
to the Canaan of their search ; that it had chosen the spot where
they should build their altars, and offer their sacrifice. Ac-
cepting the token, the Aztecs rested from their journeyings,
and. laid the foundations of the primitive city of Mexitli. ;*
which, as the Mexico of the present day, has been devoted in
its offerings of human victims, to its guardian " spirit of war."
After the settlement of the Aztecs in the country known as
Mexico, we learn that they increased in power and resources,
and extended their dominions, by the conquest of other tribes
they found around them. They also had some knowledge of
painting and sculpture, and were not novices in the science of
government, nor ignorant of astronomy and geography; their
knowledge of the latter, however, being of course confined to
their- own wanderings. So, they progressed in civilization and
strength, choosing their own form of government and their
own ruler, until Montezuma, their proud emperor, was startled
and dismayed to hear of the approach of foreigners ; men of
strange aspect, of whom they knew nothing ; whose purposes
were hidden, and whose intentions they suspected.
Cortez and his little band came to the New World, and
where they expected to meet naught but the wildest barbarism,
were astounded to. find, as they penetrated the country, 'a
people.that fell but little short, save in the knowledge of the
true God, of those he had left behind in his own country.
And here, let us pause a moment to note the important truths
which are taught, not alone by the early history of Mexico,
but by that of any country. There is an inherent principle in

* Mexiti was the name of the Mexican God of War.

85


:8    .      CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS.

the human mind urging it to progress. Surrounded by all that
is beautiful and soul-elevating in nature, free in moral and
social relations, the controlling, reasoning part of man proves
its power to come out of ignorance, and asserts the truth of
the axiom, that "ideas are kings.". But we mark, too, the.
striking difference between the mind and the soul. While,
mentally, man may advance, Science is unable to tear the veil
of darkness from the soul. God's own voice is needed, -,to
dispel the mists that obscure the spirit's atmosphere. Chris-
tianity comes alone by Revelation. Look to ancient ,history;
and with wonder and amazement, we see upon richly carved
altars,; whose cunning devices tell of the genius of the one who.
conceived and executed them, - we see thereon, hecatombs of
human beings, sacrificed to senseless idols; the brain almost
perfected ; the soul, in the thick darkness of ancient polythe-
ism. Such is Nature's teaching, such her power ! Hear ! O,
ye false prophets, that would delude human hearts, yearning to
worship a true God, into gross Pantheism -hear how inade-
quate is your omniscient NATURE to elevate man to the highest
state of mental and religious being!  It is Divinity alone
that can send a glow through the ethereal spark that has its
home in the soul. The infidelity of a Voltaire or Paine
cannot cope with the mysterious, gentle workings of the Holy
Spirit.,. Man cannot stay the progress of Truth; his efforts are
futile before the feet of the great IAm!  "As well might the
sunbeam lie folded in the curtain of Night, when the King of
Day comes rejoicing in the East ; as well might the exhala-
tions of the Ocean linger, when the Sun beckons -them to the
thunder's home ; as well might the rosy flowers essay to sleep,
when Spring winds her merry horn to call them from .their
wintry bed," - as Unbelief attempt to hold the soul in dark-
ness, when Jehovah hath said, " Let there belight ! " It hath
been decreed in ages long forgotten, that all men shall believe
men shallabeleve in
Ohrist, and to Him all shall bend the knee ; and we know that
Pantheism, and Buddhism, and Paganism, all that would' keep
the soul in bondage, must vanish in time, and give over their
power, for the "everlasting gates will be lifted up, and the
King of Glory shall come in.!"
.How plainly does the history of the Spanish conquest of
Mexico furnish an example of the truth, that despotism
is a worm at the vitals of any government, and will surely
work its destruction! With a people, who, confined to their
own material mind, gaining naught by attrition with the world,

yet raising itself from barbarism, into-a high state of civiliza-.
tion dotting the fertile plains of the tropical regions with cities
which compared not unfavorably in grandeur, with those of the
Old World ; startling the Europeans with their painting, and
sculpture; -their aqueducts of extended length; possessing an
empire whose archives, whose tribute rolls, codes of laws, po-
litical and domestic institutions, geographical maps, records of
historic mythology, sacred rights and ceremonies, which invest
the Mexican capital with the same dignity, that the Eugubine,
the Bantine, and the Twelve Tables of Rome, lend to the infant
days of the Uity of the Caesars, - possessed of all these, this
power and strength in his kingdom, yet with the fear and in-
decision, that in moments of danger, and of trial ever charac-
terize the heart of tyranny, Montezuma succumbed before the
daring Spaniard, and yielded to a foreign power the city of
Mexico.
It is said1 of Greece, when she fell before the invinci-
ble arms of Rome, and felt the yoke of servitude about her
classic shoulders, that she redeemed " the disgrace of her po-
litical humiliation by communicating the first impulse of
intellectual refinement to the bosom of her conquerors;" and
when the fires were extinguished on the altars of the Grecian
Muse they were kindled on those of the Roman Goddess.
Not so with Mexico ! Subdued, broken in spirit, reduced to a
degraded vassalage by her conquerors,-she sank into a state of
inanity, which,-from time to time, she has made efforts to throw
off finds the inertia of her own mind, too great to be overcome.
Of her colonial history, when began her Iliad of woes ; of
the various revolutions, which, during the     seventeenth,
eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries have kept Mexico in a
state of perpetual strife ; of the many changes, politically, from
empire to republic, and the rulers, under whose auspices each
lived and died - of these things, History furnishes such full
and able accounts, a repetition here is needless. We therefore
leave these oft-turned pages unopened, and hasten to that
which forms our task; for it is of the blood, which has so freely
flowed upon her soil in these later years, which has' made her
truly a deep-dyed Aceldamc&amp;; it is of the tragic deeds, of her
misguided sons, who have refused salvation for their country,
and have set the brand of desolation as a signet seal upon the
frontlets of Mexican liberty, - it is of this, and above all of
the crowning horror which forms the climax of the fearful


88              CRo Y JEWELS.

I

account to be summed up in the end, that with sorrowful
heart, we cone to speak.
The last twenty years of Mexican history has been no change
from the drama, which had been played upon her soil, since the
foundation of a government was laid thereon. A constant
warfare between the Church and the Liberal party, first one,
and then the other in power ; each striving to gain everything
for themselves and their own faction, has kept her trammelled
in no small degree ; has forbidden and kept away foreign enter-
prise, and bound in fetters the genius of her own sons. In
the year 1859, it happened that the Church held the power in
the person of one President Miramon, whose management of
Mexican affairs, and particularly those which concerned her
foreign relations and obligations, was most unfortunate. In
1861 he was in exile; his place filled by Benito Juarez, of the
army, or Liberal party, who assumed chief control, and thereby
entailed upon himself, the settlement, if account happened to be
called, of all the grievances brought against Mexico by her
former rulers. These grievances wore the shape of very heavy
sums, due to English, French, and Spanish subjects, besides
outrages and insults, offered to the same, during the revolu-
tions and. contentions that were tearing the country from year
to year. It happened at the period last mentioned, that the
troubles in Mexico were accumulating so rapidly, that the inter-
ests of their subjects in her domain became a matter of serious
concern to the respective powers. Perhaps the consideration
of their subjects' good was more weighty with the European
powers, since the time seemed propitious for forcing redress
to be made ; for the United States, who had kept Mexico
heretofore, as a nestling under the shadow of her wing, was
absorbed in her own domestic troubles; for the Western conti-
nent presented the unusual sight of a nation boasting the best
government the world ever saw, sundered 'by dissension and
strife ; a broken household -a divided Union ! The South
declared that it was not possible to live in peace with the
North; and it was given forth by her -sons that she was
o longer a part of the United States. The parting of the
States was not like that of the brothers of old ; the peace-loving,
wrath-averting words of the God-fearing Abraham; "Let there,
be no strife, I pray thee, between thee and me. Separate
thyself ,from me. Is not the whole land before us?" found
no ao wh te Nbor     at the warie segment, couched

shall be preserved !" rang over the green hills of Vermont ;
was wafted over the blue waters of the Northern bays; was
echoed in the clarion notes of bugle and fife through the.
metropolitan cities; gathering strength everywhere; until the
booming of the loud-mouthed cannon, told that the "die was
cast, the strife begun."
It was at this period, when the "Bird of American Liberty,"
whose gaze peers over the rocky heights of the West 'to the
misty shores of the Pacific, found its pinions too small to
cover its own brood, without offering wing to Mexico, that the
commissioners of England, France, and Spain, after a confer-
ence on Mexican affairs held at London, determined that an
allied expedition should be sent to Mexico, demanding from
the President, reparation for the insults, injuries, and wrongs
which their subjects had suffered at her hands.
Arrived at Vera Cruz, early in January of 1863, the ambassa-
dors who had been sent to represent each power, and who were
sustained by 7000 troops on the part of Spain, 3000 on
the part of France, and a smaller number for England,
lost no time in laying before President Juarez and his offi-
cials the reason of their coming; and at once, set forth the de-
mands made by their respective Sovereigns, which, though just,
yet in the face of Mexican poverty were appalling.
Nothing daunted by the .massing of the enemy'sforces, and
the flood of financial embarrassments, which threatened to
swallow up his government, 'Juarez, through his minister,
Doblado, invited the ambassadors to a special conference to be
held at Orizaba, where his policy would be; ".Come ! and let
us reason together."
At this conference, after a great fanfarado and assumption
of mock strength on the, part, of Mexico, the treaty known as
the " Preliminaries of Soledad " was agreed upon. It was rec-
ognized as accomplishing nothing for the allies, but only pro-
vided 'for further negotiations.
While all this was going on in the republic, in Paris there
was an agent at work upon a scheme that threatened to affect
the destinies of Mexico far beyond the negotiations of these
foreign embassies. General Almonte, a Mexican of high stand-
ing, who had left his country years. before, had gained access to
the Court of the Tuileries and to the private ear of the Em-
peror of France; and his stories of the wealth and treasures
rusting in the Western land; the great harvest wastingfor lack
of those to gather it; fixed the mind Qf the monarch more than

CROWN JR WEZS9           89


9  CR0 I0W.2 JEWELS.

0ROWYN JEWFJZS                9'

]

II

CHAPTER IX.

ever upon the claims of France in Mexico; until at last, filled,
with the idea of forcing Mexico to become tributary to France,
at least until her demands were satisfied, the Emperor Napo-
leon, by instructions transmitted to his ambassador at Vera
Cruz, inaugurated a new policy ; and it became known to Eng-
land and Spain, that upon the prestige of her superior and
heavier claims, France had, decided to take the management of
Mexican affairs, by force of arms or otherwise, into her own
hands, until she should see fit to withdraw.    he   w
The Emperor had been materially aided by Juarez himself
who, with pitiable short-sightedness, had agreed, in the before--
mentioned treaty, that until the close of the negotiations with
the allies, their forces should be allowed to occupy the cities of
Cordova, Tehuacan, and Orizaba, as well as other natural
boundaries, so that the troops should not be affected by the
trying clmate of the tierra caliente. True, it was agreed, "that
if the negotiations were broken off, the foreign forces should
give up these positions, and fall back upon the road to Vera
Cruz; " but, ensconced in such comfortable strongholds, it is
natural that these little points should have been forgotten or
overlooked, when France ignored her obligation to keep the
treaty; and President Juarez had the consoling reflection, when
he found his chair of state tottering beneath him, and his ene-
mies at his door, that he had himself helped them on their
way.
Seeing the policy of France, England and Spain determined
to withdraw and leave her a clear'field, and gave instructions
for the return of their troops, which resulted in their embarka-
tion for Europe at once. In the meantime, France had sent
reinforcements to Mexico; and her troops, then under com-
mand of General Lorencez, were ordered to open the campaign,
nd commence hostilities.-
So ended the allied expedition to Mexico; and so began the
rench movement there. Whatever may be the moral view
f the question, no power in Europe can point the finger of
eproach at France alone ; for although England and Spain
thdrew, they manifested in no way, their disapproval of the
action of their ally; and for the United States; the love for
exico which prompted her to extend such, protecting care is
bout as  interested, we think, as that of the goldsmith
ho became enamored of the diamond eyes, of the idol of Jag.
ernaut !

lI['E Emperor Napoleon did not set on foot his plans
for the establishment of French power in Mexico, with
's     the entire approbation of iis Senate. In the Corps
t Jegislatif, the Liberal or Democratic party was led by
bold, outspoken men, who, when occasion required, dared to
oppose and proclaim aloud their disapproval of the Imperial
policy. These speakers or statesmen, were the more to be
dreaded, since they stood in high favor with the people, and
in a great degree controlled the vox populi.
The meeting of the national congress of any country, is al-
ways a matter of absorbing interest; and particularly so, when
it is regarded, not alone with reference to the pomp and splen-
dor, with which it is the pride of a people to adorn their council
chambers and surround their statesmen, but also, as the gather-
ing of a conclave of men, whose wisdom, experience, and talent,
entitle them to be the representatives of a nation; and who are
looked to, not only as the guardians of a country's liberty and
peace, but also as the framers and enacters of laws, which shall
advance a nation in civilization and Christianity.
The French Chamber of Deputies lacks none of the magnifi-
cence of ornamental adornings, with which Imperial monarchs
strive to impress the people with the greatness of their Em-
pire, and the statesmen with the dignity. of their position.
There was the Seat of State for the Emperor when he opened
the session; and near it, on either side, the ~handsome chairs
occupied by the various Ministers of State. Farther forward,
and below the royal assemblage, was the seat of the President
of the Corps Legislatif; and then, came the desks of the mem-
bers who make up that worthy body.
These seats were not often filled all at once during the ses-
sions. Many chairs could be found vacant, their owners pre-
ferring the boulevard with its various excitements, to the dry,
tedious details of business ; and as they did. not aspire to any
higher honor than merely being known as "members"; (to secure
which, they had no doubt paid well at 'their election), they
contrived to shift the burden, on those who were 'willing to
shoulder it, presenting themselves only upon the occasion of great

I

11

i'H

90

91


92                 aCROW2 JEWELS.
speeches or heated debates, when the war of words was "really
exciting!"  Others there were of this most respectable body
who, it is true, could be oftener found occupying their seats,
but when there; employed themselves mostly with their numer-
ous correspondents, and finishing from time to time a huge offi-
cial-looking letter, delivered it to the waiting page, who was. to
see it safely mailed; others still, up too late the night before,
perhaps, might be seen here and there leaning forward upon
their desks, and yielding to the somnific influence of the voices
around, assumed their true characters, as "sleeping members."
But,as we have said before, there were not wanting' in the
Corps Legislatif energetic, working men, who neither 'slept
away, nor slipped from, the time allotted to their meetings ;
but, alive to their duty, took part in, and gave attention to all
the long, dry, knotty questions that came up; which, however
troublesome to get rid' of, or tiresome to endure, must be con-
sidered and decided by some one, either for the country's weal
or woe.-
The first session held by the Corps in 1862, differed in no
wise from those of the preceding years. The opening day,
when, in the presence of the royal family, the Ministers of State,
and the members, the Emperor delivered his message, was, of
course, a time when the Chamber was filled with a crowd of.
curious, eager spectators; but after that was passed, and the
body went into regular business sessions, its meetings from day
to day were subjects of concern to but few besides the members.
There are good reasons, however, why we should ask the reader
to go with us to one of these meetings; and, if possible, to
sten with patience to the discussions of French policies and
diplomacy.
It had been a long, dry sitting: first the Roman question,
which had been left threadbare in 1861, had been taken up
gain; then, the financial situation and embarrassments were
11 engrossing. Bills -of relief were proposed and discussed'.
amendments offered, and finally laid upon the table for further
consideration. At last, the relation of France to Mexico came
up; the all-absorbing topic of the day, the question full of
interest to the -people, who were anxious to discern the real
policy of the Emperor, and his true purpose in sending troops
to America.
SAs the subject of foreign relations was brought forward, the
dull, heavy spirit of lethargy that had hun over the assembly
was dissipated; and each member waited with eager attention

ORGOW15 JEWELS.

93

the movement of M. Rouhher, who always set forth the Impe-
rial policy. The restless spirits, who retired during the tedious
details of business, now filled their seats; for they anticipated
with pleasure, the clash of arms between the Democratic leaders
and tfhe Imperial-supporters; and they knew that this Mexican
question was too fine an opportunity; too advantageous a field
for the display of oratorical strength, and forensic ability, to be
neglected by the Goliaths of the House.
Every eye was turned to M. Rouher, who had risen in his
seat and opened the discussion.
" Before entering, gentlemen," said he, "upon the particulars
of our foreign relations, it would perhaps be well for us to
refer again to the message of his Majesty the Emperor Napo-
leon, a copy of which I hold in my hand; and which sets forth
the Imperial views in regard to Mexican affairs, to the discus-
sion of which we shall presently come. You will, gentlemen,
have the goodness to listen to the reading."
M. Rouher began the message in a deep, impressive voice,
that sounded out clearly and distinctly in the large chamber,
over which, hung a stillness so breathless that it amounted
almost to solemnity. After dwelling upon the "prosperous con-
dition of France, which, by the grace of God and the wisdom
with which He had imbued her statesmen, still .held her high
position among the nations," the message drew toa close;
" We would not," read M. Rouher, "atethis time be at war
with any nation, had not the actions of the unscrupulous Gov-
ernment of Mexico compelled us to ally ourselves with Spain
and England in order to protect our subjects, and to prevent
further crimes, not only against the laws of nations, but those
of humanity itself, which have been so cruelly defied and -out-
raged. But in regard to this conflict across the water, France
need have no fear ; since nothing can ensue from it to disturb
her position, or shake her faith and trust in the future.. A
truly Napoleonic non-committal document ! Such all who now
heard it, with deep interest, for a second time, felt it to be.
NI. Rouher took his seat, and awaited the opening of the de-
bate.
All looked now to another, who sat quietly listening to what
was said. A keen, far-sighted diplomat he was; ever on the
alert; from whom nothing could be. hid; who saw a deeper
meaning in the nicely turned sentences and delicate phrases of
the Imperial message, than was suggested, to the common ear;
and who knew that the little cloud, which in the distance, hung


94                  CROW' JEWELS.
over Mexico, and seemed so brightly gilded, would in the future
bring tempest and storm, from the wrath of which, France
would not altogether escape. With all the intrepidity and
boldness of his nature, Jules Favres dared to express his opin-
ion in the face of everything; and it was to him that all turned
now.
"Gentlemen;" said he in a voice full of. irony, as he rose,
and turned himself towards the eager listeners, " you. have
heard again our Emperor's confidential message! Truly, we
are honored in being considered worthy of the very high com-
pliment, he has therein paid us ! His Majesty has considered it
unnecessary to tell us the truth about this little trouble across
the water; which of course can be of no importance to the
people ! . We therefore are free to draw our own conclusions;
and perhaps some of us may strike upon the truth. Do you
understand, gentlemen;- do the people of France under-
stand, - this great overweening anxiety of His Majesty the
Emperor Napoleon,just at this time, about'the claims of French
subjects in Mexico? an anxiety that urges to measures more
extreme, and demands more pressing than those of England and
Spain, who have accepted the Preliminaries of Soledad, which
France upon reflection has refused to do ; preferring to satisfy
herself her own way? I will venture to tell you,; gentlemen ! "
cried the speaker in a voice, that rang throughout they room;
" for it shall never be said, that of all the men placed by the
people of France as sentinels upon the watch-towers of their
liberty, there was not one bold enough, to cry out in the face
of the enemy, and give warning of the coming danger ! We
are all well aware of the weak and unsettled condition of Mexi-
co ; of the dismemberment of the United States, and the gigan-
tic war carried on between the North and the South -which
prevents Mexico lookmg just now, to either for help. The Em-
peror, too, knows these things ; and, led on by the representa-
tions of Mexican political refugees in our capital, who are per-
haps actuated by motive of personal ambition; --led on, as I say,
by these stories of Mexican wealth ; and a desire to extend his
power, the Emperor Napoleon is induced to believe that it
,only requires at the preseprt juncture a bold move on the part of
any nation to take possession of Mexico. And when I -say
here openly, that it is the. purpose of His Majesty Louis Napo-
leon to establish an empire in Mexico, and place thereon a
European prince, - of whom the claims of the Archduke Maxi-
amblan of Austria they say, .for various reasons, are the strong-

CROWN JEWELS.

95

est; I do but proclaim aloud, the end of the private conferences
and meetings between General Almonte and the Emperor, and
the truth of the mission - of the Mexican archbishop, Mgr.
La Basteda, to His Holiness at Rome. For this purpose, and to
further this plan, General Almonte has returned to Mexico un-
der the protection of the Imperial flag. I am but giving now,
gentlemen, tangible shape to the whispers and secret breathings
not only of court-circles, but likewise of the people, who have
caught the echo from the Tuileries. The time has come for the
masque in regard to this matter to be dropped. The nentibn
and connection of the Archduke Maximilian's name necessi-
tates the declaration of the truth. It would have been better for
France, when the first troops set foot on Mexican soil, to have
declared her philanthropic intentions; and to have said openly,
'We go to civilize Mexico,' than to attempt a deception so
flimsy, that the merest child could see through it. No, no  let
us give things their right names. France may call her epedi-
tion to Mexico what she pleases; but if we are not mistaken, to
the world it smacks so strongly of Cesarism, that they are not
apt to mistake it's title!
"I have but one word more to add; and that is; to beg you to
remember in the future, when this Mexican campaign, which
seems so plausible now, shall be abandoned as futile and un-
profitable; when its sustainment becomes a heavy drain upon
the French treasury, and there comes no return for the out-go-
ing of French funds ; when the United States shall force .a
peace, and then defend her Monroe doctrine; when the Emper-
or finds himself on the eve of a war for his great Mexican em-
pire, and shall end by ingloriously withdrawing,- for Mexico is-
hardly worth fighting over, - then, when reproach is cast upon
France, I beg you .to remember that Jules Favres never gave
his voice in its favor ! I do not pretend to direct the course of
events or to offer suggestions; but if the Emperor Napoleon
places a .2uropean prince upon the throne of Mexico, he must
be sustained by French troops until Mexico is strong enough to
,   support him herself which Will be -never?/  I have therefore
simply to add, that it would be better 'to count the cost of the
building before it is commenced ! "
To this defiant speech of M. Favres, which was received
with hearty cheers, and the frequent interruptions of "Hear !
Hear!" by his own party, M. Rouher himself made answer.
" Our worthy friend," said he, with an inclination towards
the last speaker, " seems to have mnaeked out as a line tf con-


96             GROWN JEWELS.

CR0 WN JEWELS.               97

duct, an abiding opposition to the Imperial administration,
In our last session, it was his endeavor to harass His Majesty
concerning Roman affairs; and he now tries to find a strong
point upon which to hinge an opposition to the movements of
the French in Mexico."
What if it be the Emperor's purpose to prevent the United
States Government from absorbing the whole of that rich and
populous country ? England has Canada ; Spain, her Western
Isles; nd why not France, too, an Empire in the West ? Shall
we stand mincing over questions of national rights, and what
is due to Mexico, when she herself tramples upon and outrages
the liberties of others ?  Talk of the Government of Mexico !
To what period in her history can she point to an institution
worthy of the name ? Ask our friend there, to point us to
any greatness in the national chronicle of the country for which-
he puts his lance in rest ! Show us her constitution, that has
been found suitable to her wants ; show us her literature.; her
scholars; men of talent and research, known to the world; let
her works tell of the progress she has made in the study of
those arts and sciences which elevate, cultivate, and refine a peo-
ple more than aught else ! No ! gentlemen; you search in vain
for (these things ; the darkness that hangs- over the soul of
Afric's heathen children is hardly so tangible in its misty
form, as that which covers and envelops the intellect of this
Mexican people! . Mexico is dead ! She contains within her-
self no life-giving, soul-inspiring principle; and she can be
brought to life in reality and in earnest only by influences out-
side of herself !  Could a country possessing, as she does, the
vast wealth of earth embosomed treasures, if properly governed
and developed, remain in the degraded condition in which for
years past Mexico has been found.?  Torn by contending fac-
tions; to-day the army,-to-morrow the church triumphant, each
seems in their success viewing with the other in the blows they
strike at liberty. Peace is an obsolete word; genius and talent
are debarred from their free exercise, and are paralyzed by their
political surroundings!".
The question, gentlemen, now is brought up; how is an end
to be made of all this warring in Mexico ?  Who is to come be-
tween the antagonistic parties, and by dashing the hopes of the
ambitious leaders of each, end the revolution, in reconciling
both t6 the rule of one who is worthy and able to nlift u and
ennoble their country and countrymen? Shall we of Europe
stit idle and careless until the United States closes he I)r,

and permit her to sweep over the South and arrogate to herself
the jurisdiction of the whole country, from the Isthmus of
Panama to the Canadas ?
"PNo   entlemen! No true patriot, no true lover of France,
who would see the arms of the Imperial Empire 'extend from
land to land,' will raise his voice against this great event of the
d y; for I tell you, in the face of all these high-flown prophecies
o our clairvoyant opponents, that this Mexican Empire and
its establishment will be the proudest leaf in the laurel crown
o France !. By opposition speeches and movements we not
o ily annoy, and hamper the policies of our Emperor ; but, trans-
mitted abroad'as they are, they serve to give encouragement to
the weak and turbulent Liberal party in Mexico, who will
never yield while France seems to be so undecided. But France
is decided! And we shall all live to see, and I trust to appreciate,
the greatness of mind of the one, who conceived this plan for
benefiting both France and Mexico!"
M. Rouher took his. seat. A mingled sound of applause
and hissing was heard throughout the house, which grew so loud
and boisterous as each party waxed warm,.that the President's
voice was heard calling loudly, " Order ! order ! " When quiet
was again restored, M. Billault claimed attention. Rising in.
his seat among the Imperial adherents, he lent his aid to M.
Rouher in the defence of the Emperor's policy.
1I cannot be silent," said he, "since I share our friend's con-
scientious scruples upon that score," -with an inclination to-
wards M. Favres, upon whose face lingered an expression of in-
credulous irony - I cannot be silent, and feel that the people
will be misled in regard to the Emperor's purposes. Do we not
all know that France has insults to avenge, upon this Mexican
Government? and shall we stand, in the face of the world, and
quietly brook not only these, but the many outrages which Mex-
ico has committed upon the personal property of French sub-
jects ?  As for the United States which seems to be the lion
in the path, she has her hands full just now; and can hardly
afford, even for her boasted Monroe doctrine, to threaten out-
siders. And for France's purpose in Mexico, she has no thought
of forcing either a government or a ruler upon her. Her best
citizens and the church party are anxious to join France, or any
one who will relieve them from their present evils. 'Everyna-
tion, according to the old Machiavellian aphorism, consists of
three distant classes: one 'understands for itself; the second
understands as much. as is shown to it by others ; and the third

11

4


98               CRoW   JEWELS-

CRO WN JEWELS.              99

understands neither of itself nor aught that is shown to it --
that is, literally, -nothing.' We think we hazard nothing
when we say that classes two and three have the majority in
Mexico; ' for we know that the mass of her population are ignor-
ant and degraded, and will follow wherever they are led. - Not
only His Majesty, but all thinking men, must see that the high-
er classes of society - those whose property is insecure under the
Protean changes of the Mexican Government, - will at once
unite with the Imperial cause, and give allegiance to a ruler, in
whose selection they themselves shall have a voice ; for when the
Imperial flag floats over the city of Mexico, it shall be sub-
mitted to Mexican8 to choose their form of government, and
by popular vote to select their own ruler. Think what a future
there might be, (and God grant there may be!) for that Western
country, whose murmuring streams wind through uncultivated
fields that might be Eden-gardens!' Think of the lovely val-
leys and lofty heights that hug to their bosoms, with miser
clutch, treasures which should be brought forth to enrich, enno-
ble, and build up a government worthy of a spot upon which
God has smiled so graciously ; and where Nature has showered
her gifts with no sparing hand!- Aye, Mexico must-have banks ;
must have railroads ; must have systems of education by which
her degraded mongrel masses shall be elevated; and above all,
she must have a ruler, who can give her all these great requisites
to civilization! Can she find one among her own people ? The
revolutionary element with her, is the destroying element ;
and seditious conspirators, or. democratic demagogues, with
whom self-aggrandizement is the impelling motive; who have no
soul to take in the idea of national existence, dignity, or pride -
these are not the men to be at the helm, to pilot the ship of
state over the stormy billows of party strife ; or to lull the waves
of private resentments into the smoothly flowing waters of peace.
But, gentlemen, all this is, in the future ;, for the present, our
plain duty is to give our hearty support to the plan of elevat-
ng Mexico. Let us dismiss this carping, haranguing spirit of
opposition, and show to the world that France can fulfil and
execute whatever she purposes and undertakes !"
One after another the "speaking members " expressed their
sentiments m regard to the question. Now, some outspoken
follower of the Liberal party brought down a round of ap-
plause ; and again, there came the disapproving hiss from the
opposite party. The debates were long and excited ; and were
only ended by the adjournment of the House, when each muem-

ber retired, unchanged in his previous opinion, and still urg-
ing reasons for, or against the Imperial policy.
But the man who was less moved than all others by the re-
ports of these contentions among his statesmen, was the guide
ing spirit, the Imperial Emperor himself; who only needed
suitable occasion to prove that he had the firmness to repeat
the decisive words of a kingly predecessor; "L'atat c'est eoil/"
What cared he for the arrogant ideas of haranguing demo-
cratic leaders ? They could not change his plans or purposes.
By his own sagacity and boldness he had placed the Imperial
purple upon his shoulders,, and right royally would he wear it!
Opposition only strengthened him; difficulties and obstacles*
made him only the more determined. There, he was a true
Bonaparte ; he had conceived the plan of this Mexican Empire
and by force, strategy, or diplomacy it should be carried outr
Yes ; M. Rouher had spoken truly, "France, too, should have
her Western possessions ! "
What cared he, indeed, for the fuming and fretting of these
men?   He held the power in his own hand; and by glorious
success in Mexico he would awe into silence their clamorous
voices. He had but just finished his Italian campaign; and
had proven that he was no carpet knight, no royal dilettante.
On the blood-stained fields of Magenta and Solferino, he had
shown himself a practical as well as theoretical soldier; had
taught his armies, that he, their Emperor, could not only legis-
late for them, and study their interest in the ease of a palace,
but could himself lead them to victory; and by his own
knightly chivalry and prowess could gild more brightly the
coronet he wore. He had, too, won the hearty blessing of
the Holy See at Rome; for he had verified the truth of his
promise to be the true protectorate of the Church ; and with
masterly skill had neither given "Italy to the Pope, nor the
Pope to Italy." And then, too, he remembered the meeting
with the young Emperor Francis Joseph upon  the field of Sol-
ferino, where he had wrested from Austria her Italian prov-
inces, and sorely stricken her pride; and now, if he could es-
tablish this empire, and obtain for the Archduke Maximilian
a place at its head, he would have made some reparation for
the injuries he had done to the proud House. of Hapsburg,
which had received so many blows at the hands of France!
So reasoned, in 1862, the royal monarch ; and with all these
Weighing upon his mind, he no longer hesitated;
but determined at once, to strike the blow at this most op-

11

'


CRO W2VJEWELS.           101

portune period, that should materially increase the power of
France.
Not only in' France, but also in Mexico, the Emperor found
he was not without those to oppose his plan of progress. In
accordance with instructions received from France, General
Lorencez attacked with a force of five thousand men the city
of Puebla, which lay in the line of march from Vera Cruz to
the capital, and at which point the Liberals had massed their
forces under General Zaragossa. Ignorant, and misinformed in
regard to Puebla, its surroundings, and the feeling of its inhab-
itants. towards the Imperialists, as the French troops were
called, the result ,of the attack was a defeat to the French
arms. It was a cruel disappointment to the French Emperor,
but only served to make him more active. General Forey was
sent with thirty thousand fresh troops to take command in*
~Mexico, and General Lorencez returned to France. Notwith-
standing the orders for an immediate advance movement,
months were passed by the French army in marching and
counter-marching ; an ill-judged procrastination, that only gave
the Juarists time to prepare for resistance, and it was not until
May, 1863, that Puebla was again attacked. In the .mean-
time, however, France had found many adherents in Mexico.
The Church party looked upon the Imperial cause with favor,
since they hoped to gain from France their mortmain prop-
erty, which they were in danger of losing forever at the hands
of the Liberals. It cannot be denied, even by the strongest
supporters of the Republic, that M. Billault was 'right; the
better class in Mexico, -the property holders, - saw with joy
not only Puebla, but the capital itself fall into the hands of the
French. The reception accorded to General Forey and his
victorious troops at the city of Mexico ; and the festivities that
followed their arrival, could not have been entered into with so
much zeal.and animation, by a people who esteemed themselves
captives at the mercy of a foreign power; nor could it have
been alone, the pursuance of a diplomatic policy - for in this,
Mexico having no Talleyrand toteach her, the true application
of language -has ever been found wanting.   However the
question may stand ; Puebla, after,a short siege, yielded to the
French, who, without resting on their victory, proceeded to
march at once to Mexico city, where Juarez, the Liberal Presi-
dent, still held position. Upon the approach of .the French
forces, knowing that he could not hold his capital, he wisely

retreated to one of the northern States; and General Forey
took possession of the city.
The goal having been reached, the French commandant and
Minister, in conjunction with Generals Almonte, Marquez, and
other Mexican dignitaries, proceeded to call a Junta or Coun-.
cil of State, which, the principal personages of the country
were invited to attend; as the purpose was to choose a form of
. government, and a future ruler for Mexico.
This call was answered; and under the auspices of these no-
tables, the " Empire of Mexico" was established, or proclaimed.
As the Roman Catholic was to be the religion of, state, it was
decided, that the future ruler must also profess that faith. It
was further believed that it was best for Mexico to look to
a foreign prince for relief from present ills and security in the
future ; - a prince of the line, formed by nature and education
to think and work for a people's good. An. empire, supported
not alone by Mexico herself, but by the united crowns of Eu-
rope; with an emperor at its head accustomed to royalty, not
raised from the common ranks of men, and "clothed with a lit-
tle brief authority,"- such a government would secure to the
country a firm and lasting prosperity ; and -Mexico would take
her proper position among the nations of the earth ; and her
voice, whether advocating the progress of art, science, religion,
or laws, would-be potent in their councils. And for the ruler,
he, must be the Brahma, before whose presence the Siva spirit
of destruction and revolution would quail; and at whose com-
mand Liberty and Freedom would descend in an Avatar upon
the land !
Such was declared to be the future in store for Mexico; and
as the Emperor of France had set them thus far on the road,
it. was thought by the Junta to be advisable to solicit from him -
the suggestion of the person to be their leader.

100

CROWN JEWEL,

r


102                 CROWN JEWEL&amp;
CHAPTER X.
O GUIS NAPOLEON sat alone in his private cabinet.
)     Before him, on the large, heavily carved table, lay a
confused mass of despatches and papers from all parts
of the world. They had just been examined by the
royal secretary, who, but a few moments since, left them for
the Emperor's private reading.
In his hand he holds a paper, whose contents seem to be of
deep importance, and absorbing interest. A despatch it is, from
General Forey, bearing date from the city of Mexico, and ad-
dressed to the Minister of War at Paris. It brings tidings of
the success of the French' arms across the water; and a smile
of pleasure flits across the face of the royal diplomat, as he sees
his ambitious dreams moving on to fulfilment. Yes; he would
in truth, found an empire on the North American continent,
that in time should equal in richness, splendor, and stability,
the much boasted Republic of the United States; that now, in
spite of its vaunted strength, was tottering to its very centre !
And exulting in the thought of his future triumph, the Em-
peror ran his eye again and again over the laconic despatch
signed   FOREY:
"A French column, under the orders of Colonel De la
anorgue, is marching on Tlascala, with a Mexican detachment
ommanded by General Gutierrez, who will establish himself
t Apan. The troops of General Vicaris occupy Tlalpan and
opepo. Some of the troops of General Marquez guard the
mbankments of Guanhtitlan and Zumpange.     Colonel Ay-
ard, of the Sixty-second, is in position at Pachuca; General
eija, who has great influence in Queretaro, is going to that
own with a sufficient force. Another column will soon go to'
ake possession of Toluca. Lastly, the cavalry is stationed in
he environs of Mexico, where it can easily find forage, and
ssukg tranquillity.
."By these arrangements I assure security in a rather exten-
sive zone round the city of Mexico; and shall maintain my
communications with Puebla uninterrupted. Nor have I at
the same time neglected the occupation of the coast. -FOREY."

1111

CROWN JEWELS.

103.

General Forey had indeed proven himself the man for the
situation in Mexico, and one to, whom the confidence and
gratitude of France was due.
" The eye of Europe had long looked with avidity upon the
fertile plains of the Western continent, and dreamed perhaps of
conquests there; but heretofore the immutable Monroe Doc-
trine of the United States ad throw  it gr  shad   across
the sea, and kept back all intruders. It had remained for
France'to strike the death-blow to this absurd and arrogant
theory, and to exhibit practically to the world its utter extinc-
tion! "
Such were the thoughts, that, for the hundredth time, ran
through the Emperor's mind, as he fancied he saw the power
of France safely and securely established in Mexico. "Yes!- he
had solved a great problem; and he would clutch the success
which had come to him with such unyielding grasp, that the
fickle goddess of Fortune should never wrest it from him!"
The Emperor touched a silver bell which stood on the table,
and in answer to its sound, a page entered and stood in obei-
sance, waiting His Majesty's commands..
"1You will say to the grand chamberlain, that the gentlemen
who are to have audience at twelve shall, upon their arrival, be
shown at once to my private cabinet." A profound obeisance;
the heavy door turned upon its massive hinges, and Louis Na-
poleon was again alone. Rising from his seat, he left the table,
trod over the rich carpeting to the window which overlooked
the garden of the Tuileries.
It was a lovely morning ! The sunlight lay in golden patches
on the smooth green sward ; the flowers that were blooming in
the gay parterres gave forth a soft breath of fragrance; while
the overarching trees shaded delightfully the broad, graveled
walks, that wound in and out through the labyrinth of flower-
beds and grass-plats. Here and there, throughout the paradise
garden, marble fountains threw up the diamond spray that,
trembling for a moment with brightness under the glance of the
sunbeam, fell at last timidly-into the limpid water of the basin
beneath, where myriads of tiny fishes had their home. Hiding
in coy bashfulness under the cool, inviting shadow of an ad-
joining grove, was to be seen a marble dryad or hainadryad, peer-
ing, it may be, from time to time, when all- is quiet and no one
near, through the green vistas, at the distant form of some his-
toric Grecian, that the nymphs had oft-times seen perhaps in the~
forests of their own classic land, before the hand of some modern


104.             CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS.              105

t
a
t
t
a
th
fo
to
l
boi
he
qu
inn
fo.
lea]
wit
Mig
Try
o
the
and
to
hg
agni
'

Praxiteles had encased the wandering spirit of each in marble,
rnd thrown about them the semblance of mortality.
Heaven bless King Louis of the golden age for this breath-
mg place, this mutual ground, where rich and poor alike may
ome ! These beautiful gardens are indeed the lungs of a great
ity   " Heaven bless Le Notre ! " say the Parisiennes, "for
he garden of the Tuileries!" and, -"God be praised !" echo
he humbler hearts, "for the glad sunshine' and the bright
rater ! "
To-day it is the happy spring-time, and the garden is filled.
ith joyous children, running hither and thither, playing hide-
nd-seek among the trees with the pet poodles that toddle after
ier; while the sound of their voices, ringing with merry laugh-
r, is borne on the morning breeze. Now, a quiet couple pass
ong the shaded walk, and stop to linger beside a fountain,
using or whispering, over the soft lullaby song of the falling
ater. There, under a great tree, and seated in one of the
airs, that are rented for an hour or more for a few sons, is an
d crone, well-mgh fallen upon her last days ; yet, while her
sy fingers fashion a net as wonderfully tedious as Penelope's
pestry, and her lips murmur the broken strain of some half-
rgotten melody, she feasts her old eyes upon the life-pictures,
bleaux vivants, of youth and beauty before her.
here was another, too, who had looked long, but, alas! list-
sly, upon the garden of the Tuileries; for what care high-
n diplomats for the beauty of nature and art? Could Venus
self have charmed Talleyrand from  his policies; or the
enly Josephine win Bonaparte from his ambition?
d what cared the Emperor of France to-day for all the
ocence, beauty, and loveliness in the scene before him ? No,
He had no time to indulge in poetic sentiment; or .to
n lessons of philosophy. The toy-houses of youth are past
him; in the future his dreams are of a temple, upon whose
est door shall be emblazoned in glittering characters; "Le
omphe de Napoleon I. /I"
ime creeping slowly on has brought the wee, small hours of
morning down to twelve. The great clock strikes the hour-
the Emperor turns from the window and walks restlessly
nd fro; stopping now a moment in front of a portrait upon
se hp is seen the proud smile ofpthe Corsican hero and
n taking up Mis promenade.
ve minutes past twelve !

With profound ceremony the door of the apartment is thrown
penand the marshal of the household announces:
c ci. Rouher! M. Billault!"
"You lack the five minutes, gentlemen," said the Emperor,
with something of haughtiness in his manner, as they entered
and offered the morning compliments.
"Your Majesty will grant us pardon," said M. Billault,
"when he remembers that royalty has ever the precedence;
even Father Time himself on his journey to eternity, or in his
daily round, stops first at the palace, while we come after;" and,
holding up a magnificent repeater, he displayed on its open face
the hand but two minutes past the appointed hour.
The Emperor received the pleasant sally with a smile, and,
seating himself in a chair of state near the table, motioned the
senators to occupy those which stood on the opposite side.
"You are doubtless aware, gentlemen," said the Emperor,
" that it is a matter of weight and importance, that has induced
me to request your presence here to-day ; a matter which re-
quires the immediate action, unity, and co-operation of all true
and devoted subjects of France. As the opposition party in
the Corps L6gislatif has done us the honor to again direct their
efforts against the Imperial policy, we are anxious, gentle-
men, that you who have so nobly sustained the part of the
administration, and have battled so faithfully for the cause of
civilization and progress, should be kept officially advised as to
the success which France, as an instrument of these two prin-
ciples, has achieved. Will you have the goodness, M. Rouher,
to read aloud the despatch which has just been received from
General Forey?"
The two hearers listened with interest and-attention until M.
Rouher had finished, when the Emperor was the first to break
the silence.
"The news, we see, is highly favorable ; and our most san-
guine hopes;have been realized. Let ussee ;-" continued he, as
M. Rouher unrolled a map of Mexico that lay on the table;
"the heart of the Juarez faction was broken at Puebla, which
city is now occupied by the French ; the connection between the
capital and Vera Cruz can now be maintained. Juarez has re-
tired to Nuevo Leon in the north here; his forces are scattered
and disorganized, and without doubt will ultimately altogether
disband. Mexico calls now for an empire aiid a European
prince to rule her. In vain has she tried, under her own in-.
stitutions, to give herself peace and order. Forty successive


cos

CROWN JEWELS.

I
r
I

s
f
r
G
p
n
fr
rc
tc
arx
w
re
S
t
ti
'sa

epublican presidents have made the attempt and failed.  I
arnestly desire that not only the people of France, but the
hole world, shall understand and appreciate the ideas which.
ave urged us on, in this interference with Mexican affairs.
or more than twenty-five years have we brooked crimes, in.
ults, and outrages from the so-called government there; for-.
earance has ceased to be-a virtue on the part of Europe; our
ubjects ask for protection and redress; we have cut down the
um, enormous as it is from long accumulation, which Mexico
wes to France, and still Juarez fails in his promises to pay. A
government that cannot sustain its obligations, must not expect
t  be respected and esteemed as such. The object aimed at,
t erefore, by France, is not to impose upon the Mexicans a
rm of government antipathetic to them; but is to aid them in
ei' efforts to establish a government which shall have some
respect of stability, and of assuring to France redress for the_
rongs- of which she complains."
Your pardon, your Majesty;" said M. Rouher; 'every
bject has its two sides,.pro and con 'and as they are always
eely discussed by the public, it is also advisable that they be
eely discussed between ourselves. You have, of course, al-
ady heard the suggestion that the action of France in Mexico
ill be regarded in an ambiguous light by the United States
overnment; and the opinion is hazarded by some, that it may-
t a quietus to her civil war; and that the North and South
ay be induced to unite their forces to expel a foreign enemy
om American soil. The breach, it is thought, may not be so
ide as yet, between the Southerner's and their Northern breth-
n, but a common danger might lay the foundation, of a bridge
span it.. On the South, the first stroke would fall; so it is
gued. An empire built up in Mexico, sustained by France,
uld soon grow sufficiently powerful to think of further prog-
ss; and Texas, originally Mexican territory, and which cost
Srd fighting to win, might be demanded again, and the motto-
i et a/rmzs is not among the forgotten policies of the nations.
ntess an ally, France would be a dangerous neighbor to the
Sth. I have freely, your Majesty, presented to you the view
en of the question by outsiders. Of course, I am at all
nes keenly alert and alive to aught that concerns France,"
d M... Rouher, as he finished speaking.
"These arguments seem   good, M. Rouher," replied the
peror, "and we thank you for their suggestion ; but they

can be easily overturned by others equally as strong. When
the Convention was first held in Europe, at London, to consider
upon the claims of foreign subjects in Mexico, the United
Sates was invited to join it, as she was equally interested in the
austment of the affairs of American citizens there. However,
t at that period, her attention was needed at home ; and as
the case stands now, we think France need apprehend no diffi-
culty. The South is weak, and needs foreign assistance. We all
know that quarrels between brothers, and family-difficulties are
not easily reconciled; and so long as the South entertains the
shadow of a hope of success, so long will she contend. A for-
eig  all would be very welcome to her; hold out, therefore,
te idea here to the Southern Commissioner of recognition, and
hint at possible assistance, which, from the geographical posi-
tion of Mexico, could easily be given, and the South is quiet."
"And the North?" said M. Billault.
"Strict neutrality is our avowed policy. France need prom-
ise nothing, and there is no danger in non-committalism. We
need promise nothing, as I have said, to either North or South.
The United States will not commit so great a blunder as to in-
terfere, in her present condition, with Mexican affairs; though it is
an o pen secret, that she has always intended eventually to extend
her domain to the Isthmus, and is-therefore remarkably interested
in all that bears upon this future plan ;. but give the Empire
of Mexico once established, a few years, and she can take care
of herself. Now is the time, and the only time, before it is too
late for Europe to prevent the future assumption of Mexico
by the Government at Washington, by placing her in an atti-
tude and position, to protect and defend herself. And I tell
you,entlemen let the outside world attack us, criticise us as
it may, I feel that this action is tQ be the greatest event of My
reign; and I believe, as surely as we are here together, that in
future years, the people of Mexico will bless the hand that was
first held out to save them, and aid them in rising from, their
moral and political degradation, and in bringing out of eternal,
- as it seemed, - chaos and confusion, order and prosperity !
The fact that Mexico can never be properly governed by a pres-
ident selected from her own politicians,has been clearly demon-
stiated by the history of that country for the last twenty years;
it is but a monstrous record of intestine feuds, sanguinary strife,
pillage, and peculation among both high and low. In a foreign
prince lies her future safety;( and to this point we new come,"

CRO WY JEWELS.

107

r
w;.


(
th
et

108 CoWN JEWELS.
. And who does Your Majesty think best fitted to fill this
important position?" questioned M. Billault.
You are right, M. Billault," said the Emperor; "the position
is important ; and it requires a- man of no ordinary ability
to take it; the sea may be at first a little stormy, but a skilful
pilot and a strong bark can breast the waves. There have been
several names suggested : the Infanta Louisa Fernanda of Spain;
the Count de Flandre of Belgium; the Grand Duke Ferdinand of
Tuscany; and the Archduke Maximilian of Austria. Of these
persons, the claims of the Archduke of Austria are the strong-
est. First, because Mexico herself desires him; then, his con-
nections with the Germanic house, and his illustrious ances-
try ; and lastly, but, by no means least to be considered, the
personal character of the man himself. We could not find
among all the princes of Europe, one better suited for the posi-
tion. When just verging into manhood, a member of the
Austrian navy, he visited our, court at St. Cloud; and even
then, he gave rich promise of the noble, accomplished man he
has since become. In the Viceroyship of Italy, which he held a
ew. years since, he displayed a skill and diplomacy in manage-
mg the restless, revolutionary Italians, that would have done
~redit to an -older politician. A descendant of the noble
House of Hapsburg, as well of the great Charles of Spain;
brother to the Emperor of Austria; connected by his mother
with all of the Germanic houses; and by his accomplished wife
with King Leopold of Belgium and Victoria of England, he
deems the man for the place. Should he accept the crown,
which, by the action of the Mexican council, will be tendered
to him by formal deputation, he will bear with him the mate-
d~al support of France, Austria, and Belgium, and the favorable
mffrages of all Europe." .
.-In offering the crown of Mexico to the Archduke Maxim-
Lian, 'said M. Billault, "may we venture to ask is the Mexi-
an empire to become in any degree tributary to France, or
'w11 she be simply an ally?"
"Mexico,"' returned the Emperor, " will be under obligation
France, only so far as to cancel her indebtedness. France
ustria, and Belgium will aid her by men and money, to sustain
r empire until she grows strong enough to become self-reliant,
hen the latter, of course, will be returned. France, of course,
ill expect to recover all claims, as Mexico prospers. The con-
ol of the French troops and other diplomatic affairs will be
trusted to Mashal Bazaine, who is to take General Forey's

CROWY TEWELS.                    109
lace in Mexico, and who will act in concert with the future
Emperor, whoever he may be. Besides all this, the Archduke
being a Catholic, will guarantee protection 'to the Church, and
will therefore bear with him the blessing of his Holiness at
Rome. So then, gentlemen, you see the whole thing needs
action, only prompt action, for its accomplishment. I have
given you the relations of France to the future empire ; and
she will stand firm, let the world talk as it may!
The Emperor, as he spoke, rose from his seat, and his exam-
ple was followed by the statesmen.
' "Yes," cried M. Rouher, "and the world may justify her ac-
tions or not, as they please. It would take the morality of a Kant
to discover a flaw in the question, and we may leave these delicate
points to physiocratic philosophers or political amateurs ; to a
Rousseau with his 'Du Contrat Social,' or to Paine with his
'Rights of Man.' Each have given winning and specious, sys-
tems of government, national and individual, to both high and
low; but unfortunately, the same system of legislation will not
do for the whole world. So, until some deep-thinking meta-
physician devises the Utopian theory by which all mankind
may be placed upon the same platform, and the pulse of each
nation be made to beat alike -we are all left to choose that form
which, in the opinion of the majority, is best suited to the
country's peculiar wants. Mexico has made the trial of a re-
public in the past ; in the future, she desires an empire. Who
can say aught against it?, Your Majesty, we are united ; and
shall, in the future, as we have done in the/past, lift our voices
in favor of the Administration."
Again, the silver bell is touched, and the door opened. The
statesmen make their adieux and take their departure, and the
Emperor is once more alone.  He sits again by the table, lost
in thought. A resums of the whole case as it had been pre-
sented to his adherents, passes through his mind, and occasion-
ally a frown flits across the smooth, unruffled brow, that effect-
ually conceals the state cares that sometimes press so heavily
upon it.
Louis Napoleon was honest in this interview with his states-
men ; and he had put the case of the empire to them in the
same spirit in which he had undertaken to assist in its estab-
lishment. It was not so much thel love of conquest that in-
spired him, but the hope of en~iching France; not in lands, but
by bringing into the French treasury. the sixty millions that
was due from Mexico. And then, too, it was not an idle


CROWN JEWELS.

thought -- that of making a people, of these semi-barbarous Mex-
icans, as they comparatively were. And at that hour he did
not doubt what the future of Mexico would be. The great mis-
take lay in his miscalculation of the Mexican character. And,
too, there was an error of judgment; as M. Favres had said, he
"should look to the cost of the building."  Though the Empe-
ror of France was the man to hold the reins of the Imperial
Government ; though he knew when to tighten, and when to loose ;
though he understood that the character of the French people
was such that the State constitution must be changed and
modified to suit the exigencies of the times ; though he knew
that the same liberties that are given to the phlegmatic English
would run the excitable, volatile French into mad revolution
in a week - yet with all, this experience, with France and
Frenchmen, he perhaps did not fully take in, the difficulty and
peril of the work he had set himself to do in Mexico. .Some one
has said in describing the character of this Emperor of France,
that, "he was most venturesome in schemes of action ; he could
set himself heroic tasks, and yet, when brought face to face
with the danger of performance, his heart quailed."  It was
called a libel -- truthfully or falsely ?  Qui vinra verra. Years
will tell; and the -verdict to-day and to-morrow, may differ.

CHAPTER XI.'

HILE England, Spain, and France were at work in
Mexico, and the latter power was speeding the 'time
when the man and the hour should meet, the Arch-
duke Maximilian had gone out from the quiet retire-
ment of Miramar and had again tempted the ocean wave. The
good ship Elizabeth had borne him over the deep to the shores
of the Western World; where the heir of the royal house of
Braganza was building up an empire in Brazil, that well-nigh
overshadowed in strength and prosperity, the Portugal of
Europe.

During the absence of her husband upon this voyage, the
Archduchess preserved at her sea-girt castle a ,Penelope se-
clusion; passing her time in the companionship of her friends,
the Countess Zichy, the Countess Kollonitz, and the other
ladies-in-waiting. She also gave many hours to her art studies ;
and acquired unusual proficiency in the use of the pencil and
the brush.
Time slipped away ; and at last, the rolling months brought
the period for the wandere's return. Scarcely had he touched
the shores of the Old World, before he heard his own name
everywhere in connection with the future Mexican empire ;
and shortly' after his arrival at Miramar he was the recipient
of a communication sent by His Majesty, Napoleon of France,
urging his acceptance of the crown, which would soon be pre-
sented to him by a Mexican deputation. The Emperor at the
same time, gave full and ample promise of support and aid to
the said empire; hoping, thereby, to favorably influence the
Archduke's decision.
Already had the press, not alone of France and England,
but also of Germany, begun to hazard speculations as to the
Prince's decision ; and, after the fashion of editors and know-
ing men, were wrangling over points on which they were pro-
foundly ignorant, having scarcely heard, or seen the shadow of
the truth. One all-wise oracle gave a determined, unappeala-
ble negative to the possibility of the Archduke's acceptance :
" A prince of the House of Hapsburg accept a crown from
France ! and more than all, from the hand and through the
influence, of the arrogant 'Napoleon, who had wrested Lom-
bard , from Austria !.! The thought was preposterous; .and
was an insult not only to the Archduke, but to the entire royal
house !"
The leader of another journal urged, that "it was a glorious
destiny for the descendant of the Spanish King Charles to
again bring back Mexico to monarchical rule; and, moreover,
the French Emperor, in using his influence, (for it was 7Mexico
that offered the crown) in favor of the Archduke, desired to
conciliate Austria, and she would- confer the honor, not only
upon Mexico, but upon France, if the Archduke accepted."
The echoes of these sage conclusions, vouchsafed by the great
oracles who, each with their own especial corps,.constituted a pow-
ful Sanhedrim, worthy of due regard, did not in the least 'dis-
~ concert the one most nearly interested, who, in the quiet of his

1i1

110

CJ. D WIT J.EW.ELSo

I


113

CROWN JEWELS.

castle-home, considered the decisive question in all its bear-
ings.
With Maximilian, it was the moral point that might be
involved that weighed most heavily. He could never consent,
ambitious as he was, to go to a country and assume the reins
of government, unless convinced that the people desired it.
He would not take the role of a foreign usurper ; nor should
the world regard him in that light.
A great struggle arose in the mind of the Archduke. Young,
talented, and ambitious, with the power to bear the palm aloft,
the temptation to accept this crown, on any terms, was terri-
ble. He had but to put forth, his hand, and it was his, And
yet, within his inner soul, he could not hush the whisperings
of the still small voice that asked, "Is it right'?"
Alone in the garden at Miramar ; treading in solitary sentinel-
ship the high parapet that overlooked the blue waters of the
sea; or, standing on the pebbly beach; against which the tiny
wavelets dashed in infantile wrath; by \ daylight, in the sun's
broad glare; or, under the soft, witching light of the never-weary
stars, whose gentle rays fell tenderly upon him; trusting to the
influence of nature and of God, Maximilian sought to make
the true choice.
Ambition whispered " Go ! " Yet, as Je trod his lonely watch,
and oft-times looked upon his home in all its wild, picturesque
beauty, where he was happy in the companionship of his
friends, his books, and, above all, of the beautiful wife that
idealized his life, the thought would present itself, that perhaps
it would be better to subdue the restless longing in his bosom,
for. nobler action and higher fields, on which to display the
powers that were accorded to him    powers and spiritual
gifts, that are vouchsafed only to a chosen few. Perhaps it
would be best for him to still the voice in his heart that urged
him onward, and content himself to remain at Miramarr and
to wait. Wait !, For what?   Wait, till Death came to seek
him out, and to find.him, at the end of a green old age, and an
uneventful life, with his one talent hid in a napkin; and while
he went with the Old Reaper, up above, to lay it before the
Great Judge that sitteth upon the Throne, the loyal Austrians
and his countrymen below would chant as custom, and perhaps
love, in the hearts of a feW would bid them do; and they would
lay him, "happy Prince !" beside his ancestors in the old church
of the Capuchins, ,and- his life would be ended ; the only
earth-life he should ever have in which to do his work, and

it --it had been a failure ! And then, amid these dreamings,
there would come to him that weird, strange voice, half wild,
and fearsome, that oft-times speaks 'from  the other world-
the land of mists, it may be - to the soul of genius, asking
in tones of terrible earnestness; "Is this to be your life?
always to hunger, and never be fed? always to struggle, and
never attain? always to see the crown shining brightly, and
never to wear it ? "
"We are born; we laugh, we weep;
We love, we droop, we die I .
Ah 1 wherefore do we laugh or weep ?
Why do we live, or die?2
Who knows that secret deep?2
Alas! not
We toil through pain and wrong,
we fight -and fly ;
We love; we lose; and then, ere long,
Stone-dead we lie.
0 Life! isall thy song
Endure and die? "
Art thou content ?   Alas ! weak spirit !  Back to thy idols
of luxury and ease ! Perish ! in their worship !
No, no! " cried.the Archduke; "it must not be !.- Are
there not men selected by Fate, as chosen vessels, - workers
to accomplish her purposes 'on the earth ?     Does she not,
even from their birth, guide them, and force them, if need be,
into the paths they are to tread ? And though they may strive
against this controlling principle ; though they plant themselves
in blind rebellion, and fling a mad defiance in her face,:;they
are as powerless as the withered leaf before the winter's storm.
Circumstances will gather around them, sometimes leading,
sometimes driving them forward to their labor ; and when that
is done; when their work is performed, there comes the rest
that is promised; and for the memorial of duty there is for
all simply the " Hic jacet ! "
"He does well who does his best.
Isheweary?2 Lethimrest"
What is to be, will be !
The Archduke, impressed with strong faith in an over-
ruling power ; confident in the belief of a "Divinity that
shapes our ends," seemed to see in this offering of a crown, the
finger of Destiny pointing him to pursue the path for which
he had been prepared.
" To be or not to be ?" that was the question which must be

I

1:

pip,

112

CROWN JEyVEL&amp;


14CROWN JEWELS.

i

decided before the arrival of the deputation, that had already
reached Paris from Mexico, and would soon be at Miramar.
Maximilian did not trust the decision to himself alone; did
not rely upon his own judgment, to the exclusion of that of
others. Though possessed of fine perceptive powers; a keen
penetrat on into the future; and a will to execute and carry
out, if possible, whatever he undertook ; yet, at this momen-
tous period, he sought advice of others whose wisdom and ex-
perience entitled them  to high consideration. The spirit of
the Archduke was high and lofty; and he feared lest his am-
bition, recently fired by seeing what a Spanish prince had done
in Brazil might get the better of his-reason, and mislead him
in the, face of the world.                           h
In his own family at Vienna there was a diversity of feel-
ing. The Emperor, Franz Joseph, influenced by the consider-
ation, perhaps, that France, had so much to do with it, looked
with distrust upon the whole proceeding; while the others
hailed with, joy another road to greatness, that was preparing
for one o:-their house.
King Leopold of Belgium, the Archduke's august father-in-
law, who was regarded as the wisest monarch of Europe, gave
his voice in favor of the acceptance of the crown; and the
Archducl ess Carlotta too, into whom the spirit of greatness
and ambition had been breathed from her infancy until it had
become almost second nature, was eager to see her husband oc-
cupy a position which she felt he would fill with so much
honor; and her woman's pride and her woman's. heart beat
high with the resolve, that she inwardly made, to be worthy of
her place as an Emperor's wife.
Often and often, in the privacy of their elegant library at
Miramar, adorned as it was with books, paintings, and statues,
did they discuss their f ure as connected with this great turn-
ing point in their life.
Between Maximilian and Carlotta there was that intimacy of
thought, and unity of -feeling  that oneness which is the great
end of marriage; oneness .of purpose, and of action - which
gives to each a double strength. When Maximilian was weary,
and perhaps despairing, she was full of hope ; and if the light
in Carlotta's soft eyes' grew less bright, there was a tender
smile that could recall their look of gladness.
"In retrospecting our life, Maximilian  our life together, I
mean,' said the Archduchess, as the two sat one morning
alone, "for short as the time has. been, it constitutes a blessed

1:1

past, -.it seems that we are borne asa leaf on the changing
breeze; first in Italy; then to Miramar; and now perhaps away
to Mexico!'"
"Where," replied the Archduke, " if destiny leads us, I
trust we shall build our last shrine, and set up our material Lares.
Retrospection and introspection are both, my darling, good
teachers in this life. The first shows us already that the day
laborer, who knows that the State will not call him from his
home and bid him go hither or thither, is more a free man than
the Prince, who is the servant of expediency; who, when the
exigency requires, and the call is made, must go, whatever re-
grets are left behind. But tell me, Carlotta, do you begin to
fear the change, that we may perhaps make ?  There is a sad-
ness in your voice I have not heard before. Do your eyes fill
with tears, and your heart with grief, lest we may not find
again an Eden-home like this we leave?" He gently passed
his arm about her, and drew her nearer to him  on the sofa
where they sat.
"No, no, Maximilian ! I want to see a crown upon your
head. My husband, I want the world to know what manner
of man you are ; to know you, as I do ; to -know and see the
high, lofty aims of life; the generous love which will be ex-
tended to a people. I want the world to understand and ap-
preciate the mighty intellect that will -found, and build up an
empire that shall challenge.in greatness the powers of Europe
and America. . And for our home," continued "Carlotta, look-
ing up, first at the frescoed walls adorned with beautiful paint-
ings and tiny statuettes; and then, through the open window, at
the lovely garden, rich in flowers, deepening in the distance into
a curtain of verdure, gilded and brightened by the magic touch of
Autumn's finger, " and for our home, - I.can leave that with
few regrets; since I know that it is for your good, for I have
learned," -and her voice grew softer as she spoke the gentle
words,
And home without thee cannot be"'
"Then, Carlotta," whispered the husband, "you have felt
my absence in these months past; you have given a thought to
the one gone ? "
" Felt your absence ? " said the Archduchess reproachfully.
"Maximilian, do you know what it is - to look upon beauty
around, about you, all unheeding ; to listen to magic strains
that'others call heavenly, and hear no melody ; to smile, and

114

115

GC.R0 W1Y JEWELS.


f
f
i
i
f
k

feel no gladness ; to breathe, yet feel no gentle heart beating ;
and then when one voice falls upon the ear ; when one pres-
ence comes radiant with light, like the glance of the sun upon
the frozen water, to feel the spell broken; and where before all
was insipid dullness, and aching vacancy, to recognize with
your own soul, the spirit of happiness and joy ?"
" The fountain of love in my heart, Carlotta," said Maxi-
milian jofully, "has gushed forth at your gentle command ; and
its dancing spray is leaping high and joyfully, glistening like
diamond drops before its queenly fairy-! Ah! it is indeed
sweet to know
"'There is an eye will mark
Our coming, and grow brighter when we come.'
God has indeed kept from. us children, but it was because
He, knew that we were complete to each other without. Be-
lieve me, Carlotta, if we go to Mexico; whatever sacrifices and
regrets you leave behind shall be repaid doubly by future de-
votion, God being my helper!"
" No,   aximilian," replied the wife. " I desire no credit
for sacrifices I do not make; no rewards that I do not deserve ;
since it is a privilege, nay a pleasure, to lend my weak powers
to elevat my husband, not in nature, but in position. If a
fear or anxiety creeps into my heart it is not 'for myself, not a
romantic clinging to Miramar ; but it is perhaps a dread lest
the people, who seem now so graciously inclined toward you,
may prove   treacherous in the future; for we know that this
beautiful land has been deluged with the blood of both Mexi-
cans and their rulers."
" Carlotta, in our own hands, I think, we may place our
safety. They are fallen now from their high estate, but we
must lift them up. We shall go to them-if they see fit to call
us, not as strangers ; they must be our own people. Our task
will be heavy ; there will be no resting in in-glorious ease : it
will be labor; yet will we not welcome it joyfully.? There is
a nobleness, a sacredness, in working for a high purpose; truly
did the old monks speak,. "Laborare est orare," - "Work' is
worship." Give a man a life purpose, and write upon his
heart that divine precept, "What thy hand finds to do; do that
with all thy might," and then do you breathe into his soul the
true celestial spirit ; the sacred, purifying, deifying principle, that
is not content, save as it rids the man of the ignorance, the
prejudice, the blindness that clings to those who drag the gar-
ments of the soul through the dust of the earth. It is this

that these Mexicans, need ! Work ! Work for the body and
the soul; and should it be:our destiny to rule over them, we
ourselves will set them an example; we will give them not only
the work to do, but will show them  how to do it. Oh! if
Mexico will but help herself now as she did in times long past,
what a future there is in store for her! " You remember her
greatness at the time of the Spanish conquest; " and rising, the
Archduke walked to a case of books, and opening the glass
doors, took down the Abb6 Clarigero's Stori Antica del
Messica,'and resuming his seat, read to the Archduchess that
author's description of the ostentation and splendor with
which the Mexican despot surrounded himself; ending with
the magnificence of his palace;, and the pomp and circumstance
with which his.daily household routine was conducted.
"Montezuma was a heartless tyrant ; " said the Archduke,
as he closed the volume," with no regard for the life or liberty
of his subjects; and though we turn with* disgust from the
accounts of the human sacrifices annually offered, yet we -catch
an idea of the resources of the country even at that early day ;
for until Cortez came, Mexico was confined to herself, to supply.
all her wants. If then, she produced architects, artisans,
civil and political institutions, and rose to such comparative
grandeur, what may she not do now in-the nineteenth century,
with the light of civilization full upon her? Ah ! it warms
my very heart's blood to think that it may be in my power,
that it may be for me, a descendant of that great Spanish king
who united in himself the crowns of Germany and Spain, to work
out this future for Mexico ! I remember the time when, just as I
was verging into manhood, I visited the court at Madrid, and all
the places of interest in that palatial city. It was not the
State meetings of La Cortes, the national junta.of Spain; nor
the lifuseo, where are collected the most glorious.gems of the
old masters ; where Murillo and Velasquez, Raphael and
Michael Angelo, Titian, and Corregio, are represented by the
boldest creations of their genius. Wonderful as they were to
look upon, they had not the charm to hold me there ; for my
heart drew me to the royal armory, where hung the antique
coats of mail as worn in the time of the Cid and the latest period
of their use. There was to be seen the armor of the great Co-
lumbus, who gave a new world to the nations ; black and white
it was, with silver mountings ; there, too, resting as motionless
against the dark wall as the mouldering bodies of those who
had worn them lay inrthe earth, hung the various suits of

I;'l

CROWN JEWELS.

117

116

CAR) 0 WN JTW .


118                CROWN JEWELS.
armor tha had done service to Fernando Cortez, Don John of
Austria,  nd Isabella of Castile,  The standards, helmets,
shields, and trophies, that had been gained by Spanish victo-
ries, told f romance and chivalry ; but it was the glorious rel-
ics of my ncestor, Ferdinand the Catholic, that fired my am-
bition, an brought to me with double force the heroic dreams
of youth. Forgetting that. I was not alone, as my "mind ran
back into he past,, and then cast a horoscope for the future,
before I k ew it, the emotions of my soul found utterance. I
remember.ow the words with which I startled my companions:
"I touch he sword formerly ,so powerful, with a sentiment of
pride, of covetousness, and of melancholy. What a beautiful
and brilliat dream for the nephew of the Hapsburg of Spain, .
to brandis the sword of Ferdinand and conquer a crown !"
But I weary you, Carlotta, with these old reminiscences; a
crown is now offered to me ; and yet, though all seems propi-
tious, neither policy nor ambition shall have undue weight in
my decision. When Mexico herself calls us, and we feel that
our presence is desired, and that we can do her good ; we shall
go, and build up, I trust, a kingdom of glory and power."
"Yes! Maximilian!" exclaimed the Archduchess, as she
gazed with admiration at the Archduke, who, in the enthusiasm
of his words, had risen from his seat, and stood before her, his
earnest eyes flashing with unwonted fire, and his voice tremu-
lous with emotion; "Yes ! " exclaimed Carlotta, catching his,
soul's echo, "if it please God that we go to Mexico, I feel that
we shall succeed ; and as the .great Elizabeth of England once
rd: ' Though I have the body of a weak and feeble woman,
yet I have the heart of a king;' and according to all in my
power, I will give nay aid to the accomplishment of this great
end noble work!',"1

CROWN JEWELS.

119

CHAPTER XII.
RIGHTLY, the waters that ebbed and flowed around
the palace of Miramar danced in the sunlight.. Gently,
the morning dew-drops kissed the tender, blushing
flowers that hid in the sheltered garden-nooks ; and
softly, the perfumed breeze stole outward o'er the sea.
Noiselessly and silently the car of Time, guided by the hand
of Destiny, rolls onward; the goddess within little caring for
what she dispenses in passing, to the " toilers of the eaith." To
the chosen few who stand upon her right hand, are given golden
treasures and the wedding garment; but for the hapless myriads
that crouch tremblingly on the left, beneath the uplifted rod, for
them sackcloth and ashes, and the crown of thorns. So pass
blessings and burdens; smiles and tears !
The messenger of Destiny had come, this glad autumnal
morning, to the palace of Miramar ; bearing in one hand a
sceptre, and in the other a glittering crown, and had laid them
at the feet of the lord of the castle.
The Commissioners sent from the Mexican capital to offer
these tokens of power to the Archduke Maximilian of Austria,
were received at Miramar with respect, ceremony, and courtesy,
though with no display.
The library of the palace had been fitted up as a reception-
room; and it was there that the Archduke received the depu-
tation. By his side, were the friends who felt in his future
solemn, deep interest. There was Count Zichy, .the chamber-
lain of his'palace, likewise a true and tried friend; Count Iso-
lani, the one'"1to whom the shadows of long years extended; "
and Tegethoff, who looked with mingled gladness and regret
upon the solemnities of the occasion; gladness to bee honors
offered to one so worthy ; and regret, that the companion
and guide of his ocean life, the gallant Admiral of the Aus-
trian fleet, should be taken away.
It was a, solemn moment, when the Commissioners entered,
and the Archduke looked for the first time into the faces of the
men who had such' confidence in one they had-never seen be-
fore; and the impressiveness of the occasion was heightened,

I
K
I   ,
"
t
f
F
t
z'
i
y
:

i2

.t


10CROWN JEWELS.

when Senor Gutierrez Estrada,* who was the chief of the. Com-
missionejs, began to set forth, in a beautiful address, the urgent
reasons fdr the Archduke's acceptance of the offered crown.
" We, Prince, who are but feeble interpreters of that general
applause of love, of the hopes and prayers of a whole nation,
come to present, in the nation's name, to your Imperial High.
ness, the crown of the Mexican empire, which the people offer
you, Prince, freely and spontaneously, by a solemn decree of
the notables,;already ratified by many provinces, and which soon
will be, as every one says, by the entire nation.
" The crown is very heavy which our admiration and love offer
you to-day; but the day will come, we hope, when its possession
will be enviable (thanks to your efforts, which Heaven will
know how to recompense!) with our co-operation and unaltera-
ble gratitude and loyalty."  . . . . .
This was buta small portion of the expressions of love, sym-
pathy, and encouragement which the Commissioners bore from.
the Mexican people to the man they would call their ruler.
Though gratified and pleased, as he could not fail to be, by these
testimonials, Maximilian had chosen Truth and Justice as his.
guides ; and therefore was not led to hasty conclusions, or into
rash, impetuous promises. Neither flattery nor self-love could
dethrone judgment, however cunning the plots they laid.
The Archduke understood what it was to be called the choice
of a party; and as such he did not desire to, go to Mexico. He
must go there, not at the bidding alone of those now in power,
but he must know that the general voice of the people called
him.   Better far to remain forever in quiet retirement, than
reign an unloved ruler.
" It was not enough," said he to the Commissioners, after
thanking them for the high compliments they had paid to him,
"it was not enough to say that 'every province in Mexico will
desire that he should rule over them;' it must be known that-,
they do desire it; he must hear the voice of the whole nation,
offering it, before he could accept the crown.
"If this came to him freely and unreservedly expressed then,
would he go to Mexico; and, confiding in the support of the Al-
mighty, would devote his life to her regeneration; but'he could
* It will be remembered that sefior Estrada, the speaker here, was the fearless and pub-
lia-spirited patriot, who, in 1840, when Mexico was undergoing revolution, issued a pam-
phlet urging constitutional monarch, with a foreign, Prince at its head, as the only rem-
edy for the dire evils that afflicted the country. He has borne always with the true men
o hi cqnr"r heeputaion* ofben a dgvoted iatriot, winling to sacriace every per-.

not go there without pledges of good faith from the people ; with-
out some stable guarantee that they would aid and assist him;
and by forgetting all past differences and quarrels, and uniting
in a general pacification, give their country the eminent place
which appears to be destined for her among nations, under a
government which has for its principles ; 'Equity and Justice."'
Such was the answer of the Archduke to the Commissioners.
And they took their departure from Miramar, assuring His
Highness that ere long a second call from Mexico, bearing the
same import, would again be heard ; for the Mexican people were
convinced that their only hope of safety lay in the presence of
a great and august Prince.

.         .

The months passed on, and it was understood that the vote
had been taken in Mexico; and now the people called for the
Archduke Maximilian again. The Commissioners would, in
the early spring, wait upon His Highness, to offer him again
the crown; and April was the month appointed for their second
visit to Miramar.
It was necessary that the Archduke and his young consort
should go to France, to England, to Belgium, and Vienna, be-
fore their final decision was made ; and so, early in March they
left their own home, and were soon in the gay capital of the
world.  In Paris, they were received as royal guests by
their Majesties, the Emperor Napoleon and the Empress Euge-
me, and were entertained with the greatest cordiality and cour-
tesy.
Their visit was limited necessarily to a few days. Though'it
had not been openly announced that the Archduke would ac-
cept the crown, ye it was well understood in diplomatic circles.
During Maximilia's stay in Paris, there were weighty matters
of state to be arranged between himself and the Emperor of
France, who had contributed so materially towards advancing
him to this Western throne.
The Emperor guaranteed the support of the French troops,
to the future empire of Mexico for a pei-iod- of six years
or until it should become firmly established, and could rely upon
its own strength ; there, was also financial assistance promised;
and the agreement known as the "Treaty of Miramar " was
drawn up'; though the signatures were left to be added after the
final acceptance of the crown.
Carlotta, who was of a lively, joyous temperament, and her.
a~

If'.

.

121

120

CROWN JEWELS.

0

0

i
_
i
i
i
1
J
1


CROWN JEWELS.              123

122'

CROWN JEWELS.

self a devotee to the fine arts, insisted that one morning should
be passed in the Louvre, among the monuments of the immor-
tal men of genius.
As the royal party, the Emperor Napoleon and the Em-
press, the Archduke and Archduchess, walked through the
long galleries, and stopped from time to time before some crea-
tion of iubens, Rembrandt, or Salvator Rosa; or. paused
before th French Raphael, Lesueur, so like, and yet so unlike
the Itali n artist - a painter of pure sentiment ; or perhaps,
awe-stric en, stood before the tangible dream of the thought-
painter, oussin, who glorified himself in his grand conception
and mas erly execution of the "-Deluge," where the beholder
sees port ayed the horrors of that fearful time, when the moon,
floating  through darkling clouds, frowned upon the earth,
"that w s being swallowed up in water ; dead bodies drifting
here and there, and the last mother yearningly extending her
last child~ to the last father, that cannot even save himself;"
as 'they t ok in these sublime pictures one after another, and
thea turned to the breathing landscapes, the beautiful soli-
tudes and luminous horizons of Claude Lorraine who hangs
about his scenes an atmosphere that is a halo of glory,-the
delight .cf the Archduchess knew no bounds. Her own soul
was drawn out; and as from time to time they passed young
artists, ho were here and there making copies, and pursuing
their studies before some masterpiece, she had for each, a word
of encouagement and a gracious smile of sympathy,
At last, in an open part of the gallery, where the light from
above fel 'full upon it, they came upon a grand, majestic por-
trait of "Napoleonthe First," painted by the artist, David. The
haughty ip of the hero was curled by a proud smile ; and the
eye .seemed almost to burn out of the canvass, and flash as of
old with its martial fire. The beholders felt it in their hearts
to do homage ; 'and wondered. not that it took but a word, a
look, from this man to subdue even the lion-hearted Ney
himself.
As they turned from the picture, which they gazed on in
silence, the Archduchess Carlotta, accepting the offered arm of
the Emperor, whispered softly;,
"Let us go where his ashes rest!"
They left the gallery of 'the Louvre, and entering the royal
coach, were soon at the Hotel des Invalides, and entering,
proceeded at once to the "Tomb of Napoleon."  Immediately
under th~ great dome of the chapel is the crypt containing the

sarcophagus, in which rests the mortal remains of the great con-
queror. Around are the banners taken in battle from the
enemy.
And this, was all of the man who had made the world
tremble! -Enveloped in gloom; broodeLover by a spirit of
silence, which is only disturbed by the voices of those who
come to visit him in death, this handful of ashes is all that is
.left of the mighty Napoleon !
He sleeps
"where nothing breathes, save the insatiate worm;
And nothing is, but the drear, altering corse ;
Resolving, silently, to shapeless dust,
In unpierced darkness, and in black oblivion."
"But he has left a name," said the Archduke, as the
thought ran through the mind of each; "a name, laurel-
wreathed, to posterity!"
"Requiescat in pace!" said the Archduchess sadly, as
they turned to go.
Aye," said the Emperor. "Requiescat in pace /   Though
there be some who bay at the tomb of Greatness, yet their
howling does not vex the immortal spirit; that is gone to
eternity; and there is no hand that can pluck a leaf from his
chaplet! There are some born," continued the Emperor, as they
were again seated in the coach, and driving towards the Tuil-
eries, "who occupy the place midway between, and form    a
link connecting gods and men. The , ancients, and Pindar,
their great lyric poet, called them heroes; and extolled their
deeds whileJiving, and in death made their tombs t)e Mecca
of many pilgrimages; but in this century, when such men
come and startle the world with the accomplishment of Her-
culean deeds, it is the cry,,'not to admire, but to pull them
down to the common level.' We have a right to speak truth
of the- dead; and we owe it to them  not to' be silent. Cer-.
tainly, the memory of my uncle has borne itself up against
thole who would 'stab him in death ; and their weapons, how-
ever pointed, are powerless to injure one. whom Fame has
chosen for immortality!"
They reached the palace, and retired until later; when, after
a drive in the Bois de Boulogne, where the gay, gladsome ,1ite)
of Paris are seen in all the grandeur of magnificent equipages.
and splendid toilettes, the Archduke and Archduchess were to
accompany their Majesties to the Grand Opera. The perform-


124:             CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS.              125

ances of the evening were, of course, to be unusually fine, in
honor of the royal presence.
Evening came; and there was gathered in the opera house
a brilliant audience, full of life and vivacity.  Many of
the elegant private boxes were filled with the families of the
nobility, and gave forth one blaze of light, flashing from- gems
and jewels.
As the royal party were seen entering the private box near
the stage, the cry arose, Vive L'Empereur ! .Vive L'Im-
peratrice !"
The Archduchess, eager to catch a glance of. the-brilliant
spectacle of a French audience in full dress, pushed back the
magnificently embroidered curtain that shut her in. As she did
so, and those without caught sight of her beautiful face, upon
the impulse of the moment there came the shout; "Vive L'Jm-
peratrice de Mexico ! Vive L'Empereur de Mexico!" and at
the same moment the orchestra began the soul-stirring air,
" God save the Queen! " while on the stage the handsome drop-
curtain, slowly rising, presented the first scene in the Opera of
" Lucia di Lammermoor.
The play went on to the end; the crowd dispersed; the'
opera house was deserted 'by all, save those who lingered -to
put out the lights; and through the streets, homeward bound,
the equipages of the nobility hurried to and fro.
As they drove on, the Archduchess Carlotta expressed her
delight at the entertainment of the evening, and above all, the
splendid acting of the. artists, who did credit to the French
stage.
"Ah !" said the .Empress Eugenie, "you should have seen
Rachel in her prime;---our own Rachel! She was in truth born
for her vocation, for her dramatic talent had its home in her
heart ; it was natural, not acquired. She felt all that she por-
trayed ! With her, it was not acting, but reality ; she idealized
herself for the time into the character she represented; and
therein lay her power ; for without that enthusiasm inmthe
actor, thre can be none excited in the beholder."
" I remember to have seen Rachel once, years ago;" said
the Emnperor, when the Empress had finished speaking, and I
shall never forget her acting upon that occasion. It was in
her paly days, when all Paris adored her, and was at her
feet. The play, I forget its name, turned upon the faithless-
iaess of a lover on whom the heart and soul of the heroine was
centred.- Repeatedly was she warned of his falseness; but

with all the beautiful and heavenly trust of woman, she scorned
to doubt the idol of her heart; she knew him to be true. In
the last scene after having conveyed to the audience the out-.
pourings of her heart for him, the beauty and tenderness, her
trust in and love for him;- she is given, by one who knows of his
treachery and guilt, convincing proof of his unworthiness.
Even she, who had clung to him, &amp;nd upheld him in the face
of the *world can now no longer doubt, for there is no shadow of
hope left to her ! Turning aside from those who stand there
witnesses of her agony, -seemingly grief-stricken, - she first
mutely lifts her hands to heaven; and then, letting them fall
powerless at her side, a cold, stony look crept into her face,
and she exclaimed in tones that, sent \ a thrill of -sympathetic
anguish through the heart of each listener:
"'Enfin, i m'a troops ! At last, he has deceived me !' That
was all;" yet in the simple gesture, the voice, and the expres-
sion, there was a concentration of agony, of despair over be-
trayed faith and trust, that amounted to sublimity ! Your
Highness has surely seen Rachel?"
"No ;" replied.the Archduke. "I was so unfortunate as to
miss the ,Queen of Tragedy; and only console myself for the
loss in having seen the magnificent Ristori, who, I believe, was
at one time a rival of Rachel's. I saw her at Rome, where I
believe she was educated, and where she made her dsbtU in the
grand role of Marie Stuart."
" Ah, yes ! " said the Empress. "She played in that, here
in Paris, some years since. It was, of course, after she became
Marquise di Capranica; and though her words were unintel-
ligible to half the audience, yet her actions were so, full of pas-
sion and fire, that the enthusiasm of our excitable Parisians
amounted almost to frenzy. A little anecdote is told of Rachel,
in connection with Ristori. It-was said of her, that after the
Italian artist's appearance in Paris, that one night returning from
the theatre, where Ristori had set the audience almost wild
with delight and admirationRachel rghed to her own apart-
inent, exclaiming; ' I must show these French people that .Ra
chel still lives!' ' And she immediately went on the stage
again; from which she had temporarily retired."

-        -        -       -

-,       S         -

And so passed the few days of business and pleasure in
Paris ; and the royal couple bade adieu to the Emperor of
France, with every confidence in him for the future, and left

41

I

I

Il


126                 CROWN JEWELS.
the capital. He had guaranteed to the Archduke substantial
assistance, and encouragement to the Empire of Mexico; and in
return the claims of France were to be settled by separate in-
stallments as the Government was able to meet them.
From Paris, the Archduke and Archduchess proceeded: to
England    firm, substantial England ! One feels the. change
almost in the tread of the soil, in going from France, where all
is revolution and uncertainty restrained, to the solid, time-test-
ed govern ent of the Albion isle. Here, in - London, their
royal cous   the gracious Queen Victoria, accorded to her
relatives the warmest welcome ,at Windsor Castle; and the
pleasure o their visit was much enhanced by the presence of
King Leo old of Belgium, the Archduchess's father, who had
come hither to meet them.
But tim  pressed; and farewells must be hastened, for there
was still the visit to Vienna to be made, and the tenth of April
was near at hand; so, with the heartfelt blessing, the good coun-
sel and sage advice of the father whom she was never more to
see in life, the Archduchess left London with her husband, and
soon they were in Vienna, where the family compact was to be
entered into by the members of the Austrian House, in view of
the Archduke's acceptance of the crown of Mexico.
As the period of their stay was to be so short, and the greater
portion devoted to business, Maximilian desired there should be
no outward demonstrations;- and as he had not as yet publicly
accepted the future crown, all farewell festivities were of course
precluded ; and after all, this visit to his boyhood's home and
to his family, the last perhaps he should ever make them, had
in it more of sadness than of pleasure.
There was Schnbrunn, his birth-place; and the Imperial
palace in the city; the home of his ancestors for so many years;
nd there, his mother, the Archduchess Sophie; who had ten-
erly loved him from  his youth, and who had looked with
pride upon her noble son as he grew up to be the gallant Ad-
miral; there was his father; the brothers, - to all of whom he
was united by the dearest ties; to these, dear as. they were he
must say Adieu; and, in looking thus over 'the past, over what
was to be left behind, and then into the future, that sometimes
seemed dima with clouds, there was not all gladness in his heart,
for he knew not, 'but only trusted, that success awaited him.
Oh ! that some voice had whispered then, "Le 'eu n'en vaut
pas ica chandetle!"

CHAPTER XIII.
T is the early spring-time; -the season when   the
golden crocuses and modest forget-me-nots lift their
tiny heads above the grassy turf; and the blue-eyed
violets, hiding in woodland shades, peer through the
young leaflets and swelling buds, to catch a glimpse of the
warming April sky.
The Prater, the fashionable park of Vienna, is again
thronged with the elite of the Imperial city. The winter
winds, blowing cold and unfriendly over he Danube, had
caused the beautiful island resort to be well nigh deserted dur-
ing the chilly months that have passed. Right cheerless, and
dreary were the fountains, whose softly murmured words had
frozen into diamond crystals on their marble lips ; and bleak
and desolate seemed the leafless trees of:- the forest, whose
silence was unbroken, save by the crackling of the sear and dried
grass beneath the tread of the tame deer,: that roam the shaded
dells of the vast enclosure.
But now the spring-time is here ! The- spirit of 'Ethereal
Mildness' has waved her magic wand over the scene, andi all is
changed ; the lips of the fountains are unsealed and again their
soft voices are heard, chanting love-songs to, the growing flow-
ers. The winding walks are thronged with pedestrians; and
beneath the spreading branches of the immense trees are seat-
ed groups of 'lighted-hearted citizens, engaged in lively dis-
course ; while, through the main -avenues roll hundreds of
handsome equipages, mounted by liveried 'coachmen, and drawn
by stately horses that dance proudly beneath their gilded trap.
pings.
Occasionally a party on horseback dashes by, affording theme
for comment and gossip to the slow-moving pedestrians that
follow, and the idle chatting groups that linger beneath the
trees.
"Ah ! there goes the youngCount Stahremberg! What a
dashing, handsome fellow he is! exclaimedmd one. "I wonder'if
it is true that he is going to marry the Russian Minister's
daughter?
' Heaven forbid ! " interposed a second voice. "She may

CR0 WT JEWELS.

127


128                CR0 WN JEWELS.
be,very beatiful and rich; but I pity the Count if he gets
hold of anyhing Russian ! I cannot, connect the idea of love,
somehow, with the people, since I have read of that barbarous
Catharine! Ugh ! when you mention her name, I seem to hear
the hiss of the knout."
" Bah!   other," exclaimed a bright-eyed maiden of not more
than seventeen at her side. "A truce to your horrible allu-
sions of wh at happened long ago ! Russia is quite civilized
now!"
"Mademoiselle Giselle thinks maidens are entitled to be
loved everyhere;" said her companion softly, a handsome
young German, who evidently regarded her with loving admi-
ration.                  I
" See ! "  terrupted Giselle quickly, " there they come !
How beautfu1 the Archduchess Carlotta looks in her riding
habit, and isa't the Archduke splendid?  I knew they'd be in
the Prater this afternoon; and there are the young Dukes, Carl
and Victor ! Don't they look handsome ?"
And intr th, it was a gladsome sight. The Archduke Max-
imilian cam  first, in full Austrian uniform; his proud, noble
face lit up  th a smile as he graciously returned the saluta-
tions of thos he passed. By his'side, rode the Archduchess in
a dark cloth habit, that showed to advantage her finely rounded
figure, and t e long plume drooping. from the jaunty hat fur-
n'shed a sombre background for the lovely face,
Behind them, came the Archduke's young brothers, Charles
Louis and Louis Victor, two handsome young princes, of whom
Austria has  right to be proud..
They passed quickly on; exchanging now and then piquant
sallies with each other, and the members of the nobility they
met, and returning the salutations of those among the humbler
classes, who rled out to them, " Long life!"
They swep around a sudden curve in the avenue, and, as the
long skirt of he Archduchess floated out gracefully in the wind,
many an anous, envying glance followed the party till they
w ro lost in he distance.
Ie A    claimed the coquettish little maidei that had her-
al l1ed their approach, --with something of discontent and impa-
tience in her voice, "why are some blessed, so much more
than others ?.There is the Archduke, who,, they say, is going
to be a great King; and the Archduchess will be such a beauti-
ful Queen ! Why was not I born at least a Princess, instead
of a poor shop girl ?"  -.                     

CR0 WT JEWELS

129

"Giselle, again murmuring?" said her young lover, as they
two wandered away from the path.. "What idle words ! why
can you not be, content with being happy as you are ? were you
a Princess, then would I despair; for I would dare not love
you!"
"Ah.! Carl, you see you have no ambition! But then you'd
have no trouble in finding another maiden that, would suit you
quite as well as I do ! And I? I would have a prince, .a
grand prince, in uniform, like the Archduke Maximilian, for a
lover, and I'd wear silks and satins all the day long, and such
a coachman and' horses as I would have!"  How small the
poor artist lover, with his plain black coat, and his pale, hand-
some face, looked at that moment in the, eyes of the dreaming
' "Poor Cinderella ! " said Carl sadly, " poor Cinderella ! And
do you think all these would make you happy? How many
of these noble lords do you suppose, Giselle, love their wives,
and are truly contented?"
." Love their wives ?  And what if they don't ?  Do their
wives care ? Isn't it enough for them to be such grand ladies,
and to be so rich, and give such lovely balls and. fetes ? If I
am a Cinderella, I wish the kind god-mother would send ine to
just one of these great entertainments; for, if I only had the
power, in a twinkle what a beautiful Princess I would be, and
you, Carl, should be the Prince, my lover ! "  And Giselle
pouted out her pretty lips as she added, " But it's no use
wishing; we have got to be.just what we are, all our days!"
" Ah, Giselle ! " said the young man, as a shadow rested on
his brow. "I can never make you happy; for if you loved me
as truly as you say, you would leave off saying so many things
to wound me ;." and unable to hide his grief, he turned away
and left her.
,Giselle stood and watched him. At first the love in her heat
for she did truly love him-bade her call after him. "'Carl,
Carl !  she lalf-way uttered, but Pride whispered -pride, her
besetting sin  " Never mind; he'll come back again ! ".. And so
she, too, turned off, and went to seek her parents, who still sat
not far distant.
.Poor Giselle ! she carried home a double weight of care from
the Prater; a longing for what could not be; and the knowledge
that she had offended, as she too often did,:the true - hearted'
lover, who, before the spring-time deepened into summer, would
claim her as his own.
6*


CROWN JEWELS.             131

CROWN JEWELS.

While on the Prater hundreds were enjoying the delights of
out-door life, and the blessing of the pure air of heaven, in the
city the streets are thronged with passers. Perhaps in no place
of the Old World, can there be found, a more diverse gathering
of the representatives of all nations than at Vienna. It is truly
" the connecting link between the barbaric splendor of the East,
and the civilization of Europe. Persians, Turks, Chinese,
Gr eks, and Germans meet there in one grand Exchange."
t is just the hour of the evening when everything wears a
bu y look - when business men are hurrying homeward, and
those who are seeking the dissipated enjoyments of the night are
tur ing out.,
s the twilight closed in without, the caf6-room of the Cas-
ind the favorite resort of the nobility, was rapidly filling.
Ar und the little tables were groups of gentlemen sipping their
coffee, their melange, or taking their ices ; at a private corner
ma be seen a crusty old bachelor, who prefers taking his ice
and coffee aloe, stopping, now and then, to read the evening
dispatches in the paper, that lays open before him. Others,
w'h their boon companions, having finished both sipping and
reading, have fallen back in their seats, and with feet ele-
vated on the sides of a neighbor's chair, have given them-
selves to the comfort of a German's best friend, "mein pipe,"
and whiff and puff away, calling up a dreamland or cloud-
land of smok '; without mercy to those who have not pro-
gressed so far in the evening programme ; and who, many of
them, hasten their indulgence of wine, to, leave the cloudy
atmosphere for a quiet game at billiards in the apartment ad-
joining, from whence, through the open door, can be heard
the clacking of the balls as in rolling over the green baize
they strike each other.
At a table on the. left of the entrance ; occupying a recess
of the side window, and therefore somewhat removed from tie
buzz and hum around, sit two young noblemen, who are em-
ployed, like the others, in lending their voices -but in more sub-
clued tones -to heighten the general murmur of conversation.
"1Well !" said a tall, handsome man of three or four and
twenty, as he enters and approaches the two, "Isolani and
Khevenhiller,! -both here? We are well met ! I am astounded
at meeting you, of all men, Isolani ! Here I have been pour-
ing out my heart's sympathy for you, imagining you on some
far-off cruise, reduced to the terrible necessity of making love to
the fair maidens of-Qtaheit or Australia ! Fair, are they? I

,.
n-
',
Y
t
i
yi{

haven't investigated the subject. But what an aboiably
dreary life you seamen must lead; you ought to get to heaven
certainly. When did you get in, great dolphin that you are?
And you, Khevenhnller, how did you leave the'good people in
Bohemia?"
"One, question at a time, Stahremberg," replied the young
man last named, as the new-comer seated himself; and gave
his order for wine and ice.  "I have been in Vienna for two
days past; and this evening stumbled upon Isolani, who tells
me he is just up from Trieste. - And now, tell us something of
yourself, my good Count; how goes-the world with you?"
"Ah, just so-so; the same old occupation, dolee farniente,' "
replied the young man shrugging his shoulders; "and tiresome
business it is, too.. I have just come from a race in the Prater,
where I met his Highness, the Archduke Maximilian. I sup-
pose this is his last visit to Viennaand he is really off to Mex-
ico. Give us the truth of -it, Isolani; for I suppose you still
cast your fortunes with the Archduke."
" Yes," said Count Isolani, "I shall perhaps go with the
Archduke to Mexico; there is nothing to hold me here."
" Then you are really going to resign your position in the
navy, and try your luck in the New World? My ! but I al-
most ,wish I was going with you! What a chance for adven-
ture ! I say, Khevenhiiller, sha'nt we give Isolani our hand to-
night, and pledge him that he shall see us with the Austrian
troops that are to go over, they say, next autumn? I'm tired
of being a waif, floating about on the Continent, no use to my-
self, nor to any one else; and change,- a complete change,
would be a great relief. If there's fighting in this Mexican
programme, why, I had rather fight for the Archduke Maxim-
ilian, God bless him! than any man living,-saving, and except-
ing my honored self."
" Are you really Jin earnest, Stahremberg? " said Count
Khevenhuller, laughing. "You are such a wild fellow, that
you may be in New Zealand before autumn. But you have
quite struck upon my plan, which is, to get up a regiment of
Hussars, to go over to Mexico in October."
"Ahem ! " said the Count with dignity; "Colonel Kheven.
huller, Commander of a regiment 'of hussars [' Ha! That
sounds well ! And then, there are the attilas'of green, the Hun-
garian hat, antl the drooping plumes ! A fine sight it will be
IKhevenhifller, to see you at the head of your men. And you
Isolani, I suppose, will go on the Emperor's personal. stff-

130


182                CROWN JEWELS
Secretary, or something ? Here's to the success of the Mexican
Empire; your good health, Isolani; and longtlife to Colonel
Khevenhiille and his Hussars ! "
The three touched their glasses, and raised them to their
lips.
" Hold 1" cried Count Khevenhiiller. "An amendment ;
may Count Stahremberg be of the same mind in the autumn,
and may we meet him, then at the capital of the Empire of
Mexico!"
" Bravo ! A very wise proviso," said Count Isolani, as
Count Stahremberg drained his glass. "If our good friend
here ever foregoes his love of the good things of the Continent,
and forgets his attachment to German hills and German mai-
dens long enough to go to Mexico, why cry out that wonders
never cease! "
" So you doubt me ? I shall be in your way yet, Isolani, with
the dark-eyed senoritas. You seamen are not much given to
love-making, however, are you?"
" They have the advantage," said Count Khevenhuller, laugh-
ing, "of being able to make love in general, as they are granted.
the privilege of a divinity in every port."
" Ah ! then that accounts for your love of single blessedness.
My word, you are a happy fellow, Isolani, with that fine old
home in the mountains ; no cumbersome relations or tender ties,
and completely your own master. Ugh! it's getting terribly
smoky and unhealthy in here! How stupid of these good folks
to puff their meerschaums within -doors ! What do you say to
a stroll in the Volksgarten ?. Strauss's band, I belie ve, plays to-
night. Come!" he added as the three left the cafe, and passed
out into the street, the Renngasse ; " come ! either there, or to
the Hofburg Theatre-!"
" As I have not seen the Archduke since his return from
Paris, I must go up to the palace to-night," said Count Isolani,
as they stood waiting a moment on the street. " Why not go
up too, Stahremberg ? You know the Emperor holds reception
this evening, and we can drop in late."
" Deliver me from receptions ! Khevenhiiller, can I offer
you any inducement to become my companion, or will you
pay your respects with Isolani ?"
" With all consideration for your pleasant company, Count,
I think I shall drift towards the palace."  -.
" Ho!1 I fear this Mexican Hegira is not all a joke ! I am
afraid you are taken with the idea of the Hussars !"  -

R OWN JEWELS.

.133

"I am afraid I am," said the Count, as he and.Isolani turned
away. "We shall see you again, though ! .Au revoir I"
"God speed you ! Au revoir ! "

CHAPTER XIV.

HE Archduke Maximilian had requested an audience
with the members of his family, to perfect the riin-
quishment of his right to the Austrian accession; and
to surrender his claim to any portion of the family
estate.
The hour for the audience had arrived ; and when Maximilian
entered his brother's private cabinet, he found there, awaiting
him, not only the Emperor, but the Archduke Charles, his
father ; the Archduchess Sophie, his mother ; his younger broth-
ers, and. Count Rechberg, the Archduke Wilhelm, and Arch-
duke Leopold; all Ministers of State.
The Emperor Franz Joseph and his father sat near the ta-
ble, looking, over, with Count Rechberg, a pile of documents
that lay thereon. The younger brothers, with the Archdukes,
their cousins, stood near the window, looking upon the scene
without ; while the mother sat apart from the others, in a
large arm-chair, and with her head leaning upon her hand,
seemed lost in thought.
When -Maximilian entered, they all turned towards him. He
simply greeted them, and drawing a chair near to his mother,
seated himself beside her, and waited for his brother, the Emi
peror, to bring forward the business, for the consideration of
which they .were assembled.        .-
At last the Emperor pushed aside the papers, and claimed
the attention of the Ministers.
"We are here, gentlemen," said. he, "by request of the
Archduke Maximilian. You are doubtless aware that in a few
days he will formally accept from the hands of a deputation, al-
ready arrived in Europe, the crown which Mexico has a sec-
ond time offered to him. In accepting this foreign crown he re-
linquishes his claims to the throne of Austria; andalso his share"
in the estates belonging to the House of Hapsburg. It is to
-witness this, that your presence has been desired th4s morning.

t?


134              CROWN JEWELS.

135

CR0    JEWELS. '

We have here the terms of relinquishment: Duke Wilhelm,
will you dous. the favor to read this paper aloud?"
Duke Wilhelm stepped forward, and taking the roll of parch-
ment which the Emperor held out, after first glancing over its
contents, he read aloud the Prince's unconditional surrender of
his rights and privileges in Austria, as an Austrian Prince.
As the Minister finished the reading, and folding the docu.
ment laid it again upon the table in front of the Emperor, a
look of sadness might have been seen 'pon. the brow of the
father ; and there was a feeling silence, which was at last bro-
ken by the voice of the Count Rechberg, who, rising, turned
himself towards the Archduke.
" Though it may be ill-timed," he began, "we cannot see
the final step taken in a matter of so much importance silently.
Doubtless, every consideration for, and against our young
Prince's acceptance of this crown have been duly weighed.
Doubtless it is right that he should go to Mexico; doubtless he
will build up a great nation there. But we must say, that our
heart trembles when we think that for so long a time our
young Prince must trust to France! Truly she is a powerful
ally, but unfortunately not always a-trusty one. France knows
that at present it is to her interest to build up Mexico; but if it
should turn, France will not hesitate to break any promise ! "
" You forget, Count Rechberg," said the Emperor, "that
Austria and Belgium, too, have promised troops to the Empire of
Mexico; and should an emergency arise, Austria would not de-
sert her own! "
" Gentlemen," said the Archduke Maximilian, rising, " I can-
not but feel that these fears for the future are groundless ! As
for placing faith in the Emperor of France, I have no fear that he.
will break his promises or ignore his pledges. I believe him to be
an honorable man. It is too late now,- though I thank Count
Rechberg, with my whole heart, for his kind interest,- but it is
too late to- discuss these questions. My decision is made, and
there is but one thing, but one consideration, now that could
change it. Should anything occur to convince me that I had been
deceived ; that Mexico was falsely represented; that she does
not, and did not desire that I should be her ruler -there is no
power great enough ; no consideration sufficiently heavy, to in-
duce me to accept the position of her Emperor. The difficulties
and obstacles that lie before me I do not fear ; for courage and
labor will overcome everything. If death should come to me
earlier there than here, it would only be the matter of a few years.

But to place myself in the position of a royal adventurer, ambi-
tious of power, usurping the rights of a people -never! never !
This, gentlemen, is the stone you can throw in my way; and if
you cannot do that, the question is at rest."
Maximilian had spoken with much earnestness and feeling;
and as he took his seat,'not only the loving mother, but the
Ministers, the father, the brother Emperor himself, looked at
him glances akin to admiration.
" The Archduke, my brother, has spoken nobly," said Fran-
cis Joseph; "and since we hav heard his sentiments so fully
expressed, we can but speed hiw on lis way ; for we know of
no principle of national or individual liberty that he violates.
His action m accepting the throne of Mexico after her second
petition, will be always considered as right in the eyes of -the
world.
"May I be permitted, just here, to read aloud this letter?"
said Maximilian, taking from his pocket a :letter bearing a for-
eign postmark.. " It came to me a few weeks since, from Gen-
eral Santa Anna, a man who, in days past, has figured much in
Mexican history. It 'is from the class he represents, the Revo-
lutionists, that I should fear most trouble; and though Santa
Anna is now in exile, yet, as he has adherents in Mexico, his
sentiments towards us are worthy of regard."
Maximilian opened the letter, and began to read:
"ST. TroMAs, December, 1863.
"-To His Imperial and Boyal Highness, Archduke Ferdinand
Maximilian of Austria.
" SIRE:
"When I heard that a considerable number of my fellow-
countrymen, actuated by the purest patriotism, had fixed upon
your Royal Highness to be called to the throne of Mexico; my
soul overflowed with pleasure. If it had been in my power to
accompany the Mexican deputation, your Imperial Highness
would have heard from the mouth of one of the noblemen of
independence, from one, who held for many years the first place
among his fellow-citizens, the ratification, of what the worthy
President of the Commission expressed with so much eloquence
and sincerity.
" Yes, Sire, in having the honor to greet your Imperial High-
ness, with the rest of my countrymen, as the Emperor of Mex-
ico, and to offer you my humble services, I can assure you,

I

I


136                  CROWN JEWELS.
without flattery, that my attachment to your- august person is
boundless ; and since distance deprives me of the pleasure of ap-
pearing personally in your presence, my pen will do that duty
from my present place of residence, hoping that your Imperial
Highness will receive the expression of my sentiments with
your accustomed benevolence.
"I may also assure your Imperial Highness, that the voice raised
in Mexico to proclaim your respected name, is not the voice of
a party. An immense majority of the nation desire to restore
the empire of the Montezumas, with your Imperial Highness
at its head ; believing it to be the only remedy for existing ills,
and the ultimate anchor of its hopes.
'"Accept, then, in absolute confidence, the enthusiastic Mexican
vote ; and come courageously to the Mexican shores, certain of
receiving demonstrations of love and profound respect, believing
at the same time that your agreeable presence will suffice to re-
store harmony throughout the land.
" The occasion is propitious; and your Imperial Highness can
make the Mexicans happy, by placing your name among those
of the heroes, blessed by posterity.
"The vast, beautiful, and fertile soil of Mexico abounds in
elements to form a first-class empire on the American conti-
nent ; consequently, it is no insignificant power that is offered'
to your Highness. True, the country has suffered from anarchy
for half a century; but under the auspices of peace, with a pa-
tient just, and enlightened government, its resources will be
restored in a few years, and it will be the admiration of the
whole world. Would to Heaven I could see this before I end
my days ! I hope your Imperial Highness will acknowledge in
the Dean of the Mexican country, a devoted and disinterested
friend ; a very obedient servant, who wishes you the greatest
happiness, and fervently kisses the hands of your Imperial
Highness.,
"ANTONIO LOPEZ DE SANTA 'ANNA.', *
"Very fair! very fair !" said Count Rechberg, with an in-
credulous shake of his head. " I trust Antonio Santa Anna
may be the true exponent of Mexico's wishes and desires; for,
* This letter has been proven to have been written by Santa Anna, though, when the
tide turned, he attempted to disclaim it. Had the Emperor Maximilian known him as
Americans do, he perhaps would have mistrusted his disinterested friendship. As it was,
the letter doubtless had its full weight.  -.

CROWN JEWELS.            137

my young Prince, she has never before been blessed by a ruler
such ayowill be."
"It is exceedingly gratifying, my brother," said the Emperor,
"as you have remarked, to receive these private expressions of
the feeling with which your coming to Mexico is regarded. Still,
we should lack of our duty, knowing state policy and human na-
ture so well, if we failed to whisper to you, not to trust too much
to these outward seedings and public .obeisance. But we talk
to the Archduke," continued the Emperor, interrupting himself,
and turning with a smile to Count Rechberg, " as if he were a
beardless youth, about to begin his trial with the world. These
sage bits of wisdom, and Tupper-like maxims, lie in the fare-
wells of our august and tender parents,",with an inclinatih
towards the Archduke Charles and the Archduchess. "Time
will soon press us; and the business of the morning is hardly be-
gun. Your decision is made, Maximilian ? "
"It is;" returned Maximilian, coming forward. "I go to
Mexico, unless :unforeseen circumstances arise to prevent. In a
few days, the deputation will reach Miramar; and after thelast
arrangements are made with them, there will be nothing to
prevent the immediate departure of the Archduchess and my-
self."
"Let us understand each other, then," said the Emperor.
"You may rely upon the first division of Austrian and Belgian
troops early in the autumn."
"Napoleon has arranged that theyshall come over in French
transports," replied the Archduke. "I trust," he continued,
"by the blessing of God upon the exertions I shall make, that
there is indeed a brighter destiny for Mexico than has ever
been prophesied; and I trust that not only France, but Aus-
tria, too, may be repaid forty-fold for the assistance they lend
her now."~
"But understand, Maximilian," said the Emperor, "though
you leave Austria, she does not give you up.
"No, no ! " echoed the voices of all in an undertone.
"And should you find your empire in Mexico unable to sus-
tain itself," continued Francis Joseph, "remember you are still
one of the House of Hapsburg. In order to provide for future
uncertainties and contingencies, we have thought best to place
in the instrument .a clause, which sets forth that should you
find your position in Mexico untenable,- and should you give it.
. -a
up and return to Austria before the expiration of six y ears
from the time of your departure, you shall be restored to all the

I


138              MROWN JEWELS.

prerogatives you now relinquish. Are you ready, gentlemen,"
said he, turning to the Ministers, "togive us your signatures
Those of the Archdukes will be given at Miramar, after the
Archduke Maximilian has finally accepted the crown of Mex-
ico."
The Ministers came forward, and attached their names as
witnesses of the compact between the members of the royal fam-
ily and the Emperor-elect of Mexico, leaving the vacant places,
for the signatures at Miramar.
The Archduke Charles, the Archduchess Sophie, placed their
names also; and then came that of Francis Joseph, Emperor
of Austria.
The business of the morning finished, the Emperor touched
the bell that summoned the marshal in waiting, and the Minis-
ters were shown out. Each one, as they left, silently extend-
ed their hand to the Emperor-elect, for they felt now that he
was almost gone from them.      -     -
The door closed, and only the members of the family re-
mained. State affairs had gone out, and family confidence and.
family love had come in. A spirit of sadness,- that indefinable
mist of tears that precedes all long partings, -had crept in too.
The Emperor Francis Joseph turned from the door, and saw
his father standing beside his brother Emperor, with his hand
-     upon his shoulder. He stopped, and listened to the charge that
he was giving.
"My son," said the father, " you have made your choice, be
it wise or not. Do your best; and may Heaven's blessing rest
upon you ! You have been educated for a ruler, Maximilian ;
and I can say but little that you have not heard before ; but I
call up now the words of the poet-philosopher, and beg you
"These few precepts in thy memory bear:
Give thy thoughts no tongue,
Nor any unproportioned thought his act.
The friends thou hast, and their adoption tried,
Grapple them to thy soul with hooks of steel.'
I will only add: To thy God and thine own self, be true !"
The father's voice was tremulous with feeling. Francis
Joseph had come near them as he finished speaking, and now
silently embraced his brother, and with a whispered "God
bless you, Maximilian!" he took his father's arm, and the two
together left the cabinet-chamber, and the Archduchess Sophie
and her son were alone.
The mother sat very still where she had taken her place, after

signing, as she almost felt it to be, her son's death-warrant;
for, in her woman's heart, she felt that Maximilian was dead
to her. For to woman, what are honors, crowns, chaplets,
and sceptres, if the dear ones are gone ?  What though the
trumpet-blasts of fame proclaim the name of her child from
land to land, if she cannot look upon his face: if she can never
hear his voice ? A mother's love, though deep and true, cannot
rid itself of all selfishness.
The Archduchess, as she heard the father's parting, took in
the whole truth; and pressing her hands over her face, she for-
got all else, save this trial, and this son.  She thought of his
infancy, his boyhood, his manhood, and as she remembered him,
always tender, always dutiful and affectionate, he seemed to
grow dearer to her heart.
Maximilian stood for a moment, after his father and brother
had left, and waited for the Archduchess to speak ; but as he
looked, he saw the tears stealing through her fingers, and in
his own heart, he felt all that overcame her.
"Mother ! " he cried, starting forward and kneeling by her side,
"mother, still the fears of your heart for my future ! You
know that I will do right; and believe that all is for the best !
Give me your blessing, my, mother; and your forgiveness for
all that I have ever done to grieve you. Let me feel, that
whatever may betide me in that new home across the ocean, I
take with me your forgiveness, your love, your blessing."
" Forgiveness? " said the Archduchess, bending down and
pushing back the heavy hair, and kissing his brow. " Maxi-
milian, from the time you first saw the light at Schnbrunn, you
have been a blessing to me.  Never have you forgotten to do
all in your power to make your mother happy ! Aye, my son;
take with you my love, my prayers, my heart itself, and my
blessing. Yes ; as Isaac of old blessed his son, so I bless
you !"
The Archduchess placed her hands upon the bowed head,
and in a voice filled with tearful emotion, uttered her fare-
well :
"God give thee of the dew of heaven and the fatness of the
earth. Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee.
Cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be every
one that blesseth thee ! "

.'

I

I

CROWN JEWEL&amp;             139


CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS

CHAPTER XV.

MAXIMILIAN, Emperor of Mexico, swear to God,
by the Holy Evangelists, that I will try to promote,
through all the means within. my power, the welfare and
prosperity of the nation, to defend its independence,
and to preserve the whole of its territory!"
Deeply and solemnly the voice of the Archduke Maximilian
Archduke no longer - broke the impressive silence that
prevailed throughout the apartment in which was assembled an
anxious, interested company. With uplifted hand, Maximilian
,tood in their presence, before the mitred Abbots of Lacroma
And Miram r, and the friars of Mexico; and, taking the irrevo-
cable oath of office' sealed his future for weal or woe.
Spirit, that guides and ministers to the chosen ones of earth,
and hath their happiness in charge,,art thou slumbering on the
watch? Hath some foul-hearted gnome, with cunning sophistry
and glozed words, beguiled thee of thy trust ?  Wilt thou not
vouchsafe, ere it is too late, one whispered, Beware ! " that
shall call up the echo of those wrathful voices of the beasts of
prey, that lie hidden adown that flowery path ? Save the
pure, the noble, the good, from an untimely sacrifice !
There is a hush in ghe assembly'; and the Royal Prince puts
forth his hand and grasps a sceptre ; and there, too, is the glit-,
tering crown. Alas ! that he can see no farther. Look away
in the distance, down the vista of years;
"'The war drum is muffled, and black is the bier ;
The death -bell is tolling-- Oh ! Mercy, dispel
The sight that it freezes my spirit to tell ! "
"False wizard, avaunt !"
"'Long live the Emperor of Mexico ! Long live the Empress
Carlotta ! " rings out in gladsome tones.
" Mexico hath been born again ! "
Se Hor Gutierrez Estrada, the chief of the, Commissioners,
knelt in homage, and' kissing the hand of his newly-proclaimed
monarch, was the first to yield allegiance to him.
It was a royal assemblage. of princes and nobility, that had

come to Miramar from all parts of Germany, to see the Arch-
duke accept the crown, and to bid him adieu.
There was the Emperor of Austria, Francis Joseph, and the
young Archduke Louis, standing near hin. There was the
Commissioner of Napoleon of France, General Froissart ; and
the Imperial delegate, Sehor Hurbet. Near them stood the
Belgian Minister to Austria, exchanging from time to time whis.
pered comments with the ladies of honor who stand near the
Empress Carlotta.  At the entrance of the door is the Grand
Master of Ceremonies ; while near him, are seen Counts Kheven-
huller and Isolani, who regard the scene with deepest interest.
Near the centre of the room stood the Emperor and
Empress elect. Maximilian wore the magnificent uniform of an
Austrian vice-admiral, which position he was so soon to resign ;
while upon his breast, gleamed the stars and crosses of the var-
ous orders to which he belonged. And the Empress Carlotta, at-
tired in an elegant rose-colored silk, the diamonds flashing upon
her person at every turn, seemed indeed the queen of beauty
and dignity, and worthy to wear the brightest diadem of earth.
A royal pair they were; they two, whose fortunes lay in the
path that stretched out before them now, into an unknown
future ; but the star of hope gleamed almost visibly upon the
noble brow of the one, while in the gentle eye of the other shone
the holy light of love,.devotion, and trust.
Just in front of the heavily-carved table, behind which they
stood, and on which lay various state and official documents,
were ranged the members of the deputation,, forming a half-cir-
cle; the President and the abbots standing nearest the Empe-
ror.
And now the oath of office taken, while the company offer
their congratulations and good wishes to the Emperor, the
castle guns send their booming messengers out over the waters
of the Gulf; until, in the stillness of the morning air the ships
in the, harbor at Trieste catch the echo, and answer with thun-
dering voice, the signal, that tells of a new-made Emperor to
the proud " House of Hapsburg."
With smiles and laughter,with joyousness and mirth, the com-
pany proceeded to the splendidly-decorated chapel of the palace;
where, after thanksgivingand praise, offered before the altar
by the abbots, the magnificent strains of the " Te Deum Lauda-
mus " sound- forth from the organ. With united voice goes
up the sublme prayer, louder and louder grows the chant, as
each soul feels the words that fall from the lips, -

141


142

CROWN JEWELS-

"o Lord, save thy people, and bless thine inheritance,
Govern them, and lift-them up forever !
Day by day, we magnify Thee ;"
And we praise Thy name forever ; yea forever and ever."
Maximilian of Austria is a monarch !
The'day passes-away ; and the guests depart, leaving behind
their sincere, wishes for the future good and happiness of the
young Emperor and Empress.
" Maximilian, may God bless you and keep you !" whispered
the Emperor Franz Joseph, as, with a tear in his eye, he throws
his arm about his brother, and gives him a last affectionate em-
brace.
They were all gone, when the last beams of the sun -fell
across the castle turrets; all, save those who are to accompany
the royal party to Rome, where, in their voyage they will stop
to receive the blessing of the Holy Father.
The day had been so full of bustle and excitement, of coming
and going, that Maximilian had scarcely been able since the
morning light to collect his thoughts ; and he therefore hailed
with joy, the coming of the night, when he could hold once more,
perhaps for the last time at Miramar, communion with his own
spirit.
The glorious moonlight tipped with its silvery beams the
crested waves of moving water, that shone with brightness, save
when now and then a vaporous cloud floated overhead.
An air of quiet pervaded the palace. Worn out with fatigue,
all had retired to -rest"; all, but the one who kept a voluntary
sentinelship on the parapet that overlooked the sea; his favor-
ite resort when anxieties or cares pressed heavily.
Maximilian trod his stony walk, an Emperor !
" An Emperor ! " murmured the waters below ; "An Em-
peror !" softly echoed the cooing night-bird amid the dew-kissed
flowers of the garden behind ; and gently, the aroma-scented
breeze whispered in his ear, " An Emperor ! an Emperor ! "
All was in unison, save his own soul, where tumultuous emo-
tions warred for the mastery, each striving for utterance !
When will Science, - omniscient, as it almost claims to be,
fathom the depth of that mysterious current flowing between
the heart of man, and what is wrongly called the soulless world
around him?
What is that strange magnetic influence in the voice of Na-
ture, that penetrates the inner sanctuary, the sacred Pomoerium
of .the heart, open to none, save the spirit visitors that come
from a land-almost beyond the reach of thought ?

CRO WY JEWELS.

143

Deep calleth unto deep!"  So does that voice within our.
selves, holy and solemn, and always inexpressibly sad, echo
the Eolian strain of the wailing wind, or the Electra-like
moanings of the sobbing sea, as it surges despairingly against
the beach, recklessly dashing to and fro, like a restless, God-
condemned, God-forsaken spirit, given up to an insatiate demon
of chance !
These are sacred hours; when the soul, at the bidding of
the mystic voices around, seems almost to take tangible form
and stand before us. And these communings come oftenest, not
when the Fratres Arvales of the feathered brotherhood are
carolling their joyous advent songs in greeting to the spring ;
not when the summer's train is scattering peace and plenty;
but they come when most needed ; when autumn's royal ?robe
has been covered by December's mantle of snow; when perhaps
brilliant hopes have been blighted by the touch of disappoint-
ment; or lir hours of doubt and of trial, they come, dispelling
the wavy shadows that hang over the soul; and breathing into
the heart a spirit of strength, bids the man , "rouse up, and
go forth, to be a hero in the strife !"
Standing upon the farthest. corner of the parapet, looking
far away over the sea, which now rises up and now recedes, the
Emperor Maximilian put forth his hand, as if to hush the chant-
ing- of wind and wave, to still the god-like fugue of Nature's
great diapason, that he might give heed to the voice within,
that spoke of power to his soul.
This must be his last hour of weakness; to-night he must
look backward for the last time. He turned his-eye upward,
and there, bathed in moonlight, was his home in all its beauty
and strength. And yet, to him, the walls seemed to wear a
gloomy face, and seemed to frown upon him for deserting them.
In three days he would leave this haven of happiness and safety,
for a loftier, higher place. God grant that the foundations of
the new home be firmly established, and may they stand the tem-
pest sweep of years !
Within those chambers, peacefully dreaming, was his beauti-
ful Carlotta, for whose destiny he was responsible. Had he
chosen a happy fate for her ?  Or did he lead her from joy and
gladness to a land of terror and woe; even though she, too,
said to him, " Let us go "?
Had he chosen wisely ? Would he be able to sustain him-
self in the position he had taken?  Out of chaos and confusion
could he bring beauty and order ; turn anarchy, desolation, and

1

t

-
y
3
4
a
i
{
x
t
G
f

!
j               .


CROWN JEWELS.

Fr

CROWN JEWELS.

strife into peace, prosperity, and brotherly love ?  With
God's blessing, he would be the life-giving sun, which should
make the battle-swept, blood-washed plains of Mexico to bloom,
and blossom with the rose; and where had grown thorns, there
should " come up the fir-tree, and instead- of the briar, the
myrtle!-"
Why. did he doubt himself ? Where were his early teach-
ings; where the promise made to his young manhood of future
greatness?  Had not the time come for these to be fulfilled ;
the test period, when the 'soul of the man was to be tried ?
Yes! And he would be strong and true ! He had put his
hand to the plough, and he would never turn back. Twice
had Mexico called to him; "Come over and help us," and faith-
fully would he work for her, anA yield to her the service of his
lie.
Lifting his hands upward, and turning his eyes to Heaven
a ove Maximilian uttered a fervent prayer, for guidance from
o  high in his new life; for wisdom to govern his people,
and for power to build up a nation to the glory of God.
Amen !       -'
"And may the blessing of the Father, of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost, descend upon the new-made Emperor, and con-
secrate him now, and forevermore!"

ZOZ

CHAPTER XVI.

LEAR and cloudless, with not a vapory film obscuring
the blue sky, was the morning on which the Emperor
and Empress elect were to leave their native land, to
go into the new field of life, where as a reward for
ieir labor, 11 trusted that love and glory waited them.
The Priness Carlotta, with a temperament ardent and lov-.
g, truste  the making of the future without fear to 1 her
)yal conso t. There were no paths too high for him to tread,
ble and 1fty as he was; and she would cling to him, and keep
y his side forever, let the thorns on the way pierce as they
'ould. Should Fate gild his brow with a crown whose jewels
iould grow brighter, their reflected rays should glance athwart

her form; and, too, should the same trumpet voice gather to-
gether the storm-clouds to lower about and destroy him,-their
pitiless fury should burst upon her head also; and when some
angry wave swept both -from the sea of life to the changeless
shore beyond the troubled waters, it should whisper to the
rock-bound heights, that the stroke which. blighted his life and
palsied his heart, left her own powerless to pulsate.
.  It is high noon at Miramar; and the mid-day sun looks down
in golden splendor upon a glorious sight. In the city of
Trieste an universal holiday has been proclaimed, and the citi-
zens, high and low, rich and poor, who love the name of "Max-
imilian," have come out; some in handsome coaches and gaudy
trappings, others more humble on foot, but all helping to fill the
palace, the garden, the beach, with lookers-on, who in their
souls echo the " God speed !" that now and then bursts forth in
united sentiment of sadness and pleasure.
The magnificent Austrian frigate Novara, that is to bear
the royal couple over the treacherous main, lay in all her dig-
.nity at the mooring. Beside her, the French frigate Thsmi
whc is to escort them to Vera Oruz, floats   asproudly from her
mast-head the Imperial colors. Here and there, flitting hither
and thither like restless sea-birds, are the lesser boats of the
Austrian navy, which are-to accompany the Emperor to Rome,
where the party will touch, to seek the blessing of the Pontifical
prelate on their crown.
"Adieu ! adieu ! " has been said, again and again to thin
animate and inanimate, echoed with smiles' and tears, with
daughter, and with sighs.; and now the Emperor and Empress
whavelt he garden, and stand upon the deck of the vessel
w   h as been magnificently decorated -surrounded by the
ies and gentlemen of the Court.
There is first, the Archduke Louis Victor, who accompanies
his brother to Rome ; there is the future Minister of State of
exico, Senor Velasquez de Leon; there is the Grand Master
of the Royal Household, Count Zichy ; and the Chamberlains,
Count de Bombells, and the Marquis de Cerio; and beside the
press, stands the Count Isolani and the ladies  f h
the Countess Kollonitz, and the Countess Zichy.
They are waiting until all is ready and the signal f  h
departure is given; smiling graciously to the crowd on shore,
whose  vivas " ring out, now and then, amid the cannon's
ar.
. 7

144

145

a

4
jj
l
_
1
.'


146                 CROWN JEWELS
There is a moment of silence, and a sound of tinkling music
is heard.
" There, there ! your Majesty!" cried the Empress, turning
to the Emperor; "there is an offering for us! Listen !"
Attracted by the Empress's words, the party on deck ceased
their gay jests, and looked in the direction to which she
pointed. 9n a projecinoladt          rnou ners to th
p     vesselet still so far off as to almost drown the sound of her
voice-, to  an old woman, dressed in a queer Italian costume,
grinding ap organ, and singing in a broken, cracked voice:
"over the sea--over the sea,
Glory and greatness
Are waiting.for thee !
Over the sea - over the sea,
Power and Princes
Shall bow before thee."
The old crone had raised her voice to its highest pitch, and
in broken syllables, her words just reached the ears of those
who listened. .
" A  happy prophecy, your Majesty! " cried Count Isolani,
who stood near the railing.
" Oh! that we could toss her a sovereign!" said the Em-
press, as she waved her handkerchief in friendly token to the
old Gitan ; while she spoke, there was a great gathering up of
the sleeping energies and strength that lay in the Novara, and, ~
amid the loudest, heartiest, longest shout of the watching multi-
tude she begins her voyage, and is outward bound. The Thrnis
falls inthe train; then come the various vessels that make up the
little fleet  Onward they move, in quiet dignity, slowly at first,
but with each giant heaving they plough 'the main faster and
faster, u til even those who stand anxiously watching with
spy-glass, to keep sight of the fluttering flag that grows smaller
and smaller --see but a little speck ; that is fading --more
and more --until the mast-head is almost gone ; then, there is
naught t be seen, save the 'waves of the Adriatic rolling in
blue beneath, and the cloud-isles floating. lazily in the sea of
ether above.
Away, away, go the people back to their homes -back to
business, to begin again the toil that verifies the old curse, that
"man sh 11 live by the sweat of his brow." Some with tender
hearts ph ek, as they pass, a rosebud'-in mernoriam- from the
garden. lAlas ! now, roses and jessamines may blossom and
bloom there, and fling their sweetness to the breeze all unheeded.

CR0 Y. JEWELS.

14

The gentle changes of spring, summer, autumn, and winter, may .
go by unmarked ; for to-night, when the sun in sympathy has
hid his face, and the moonbeams are sent softly in to offer con-
solation ; so through the rooms of the deserted palace, where all
has so recently been pomp, and splendor, and ceremony -that
are there still; instead of musical laughter, there is heard a
soft echo -that murmurs sadly : "W  are left alone !" There
is none, to whom Miramar may whisper the story of its desola-
tion, save the Ocean Queen, that, now and then borne on the
passing wave, lingers to drop a tear of sympathy.
Three days have passed away, and borne onward by wind and
wave, the Novara and her train have reached the Italian port
of Civita Vecchia ; where, amid the shouts and welcome of
those who have come down from Rome to meet them, they dis-
embark, and the',eventide finds them in the Eternal City.
Two days and nights of banqueting and greeting at the mag-
nificent palace which had been prepared for them. Now their
Majesties are seen-in the Grand Saloon, surrounded by admiring
friends ; or again, standing in the Plaza of St. Peter's, regarding
with wonder the stupendous pile; or, dreaming amid the ruins
of the Coliseum, as the moonbeams shimmer over the crumbling
seats of the old amphitheatre. And lastly, the wonders of. the
Vatican attract them; and there, they receive the sacred unction
and blessing of the Holy Father, and then they are ready to
depart, it may be forever, from the Old World.
And now, in truth, the Emperor Maximilian says "Fare-
well! " Farewell to Austria and the Fatherland ; and with a
heart filled with the loftiest ideas of ambition he seeks his
future beyond the broad waters of the Atlantic. Wargus has
thrown the grass over his shoulder; has 'overleaped the frail
paternal enclosure, and lets his plume float to the wind, and
now looks upward, and presses onward greatness
that lies in the path he has chosen.'h
Through the Straits of Gibraltar, out of the Mediterranean
into the wide ocean, the Novara, followed by the Tmis,like
a stormy petrel, skims the wave.
Almost during the entire day the royal pair remain on deck,
watching the shores of the Old World grow fainter and fainter
At last the evening sun, rolling in red billows, sinks beneath the
boundless horizon, where the sky and ocean blend in misty
vaporous unity.
The members of the court had gathered together for a social
evening in the saln; somne indulging in cards; others engaged

1,


48                  UROWN JEWELS.
n conversation; each consulting inclination. Court etiquette
and ceremony gave place to the spirit of the sea, - the sea
'boundles~ and free."
The Emperor and Empress stood alone on deck, leaning over
he railing that enclosed the guards.
Carlotta looked downward into the blue ocean gleaming with
hosphores ent light.  Maximilian's eyes are upward-turned,
as if he sought tq ask from the God who controls the mystic
movements of the sidereal orbs a solution of the life-problem
which he must work out.
"Ye starsI which are the poetry of heaven !
If in your bright leaves we would read the fate
Of men and empires --'tis to be forgiven,
That in our aspiration to be great,
Our destinies o'erleap their mortal state,
And claim a kindred with you; for ye are
A beauty and a mystery, and create
In us such love and reverence from afar,
That fortune, fame, power, life, have named themselves
A starI"
"The moon is up; by Heaven, a lovely eve ! " exclaimed the
Emperor, recalling his thoughts.  "Carlotta, my own, are you
dreaming ?"'.
His tones were soft and low, with that peculiar musical ac-
cent that in the very words convey a caress to the one ad-
dressed.
4"Are you dreaming, Carlotta, of what we have left behind,
or of what we are to meet, in the shadowy future?"
" Shadowy future, Maximilian?" said Carlotta.   "I see no
shadows !  As the old Gitana said ; 'Glory and greatness are
waiting for thee !' You go to fill a position honorably and
faithfully tendered to you. The voice of Mexico, the voice of
nations, call you to a throne, and 'equity injustice,' mercy and
love, shall be the national mottos. Ah! Maximilian, I have
no fear.  If there be enemies in Mexico, they cannot fail to be
overcome by kindness; even Benito Juarez himself will not be
able to refuse the olive branch!
"-My little diplomat!/ " said the Emperor, half playfully, "you
make me feel that the crown should rest on your head, not
mine ! Carlotta, how I thank you, how -I bless you for the
words of strength and hope, for the faith and trust you give to
me, and how I thank God for the gifts of mind and intellect
that He has bestowed upon you ! But let us dismiss affairs of
men and state ; and to-night be my wife ; not the Empress ! "-

CROWN iTJWELS.

149

As he' spoke he drew her tenderly towards him, And im-
printed a kiss upon her brow.
"Sing, my darling, the 'Ave Maria.' We will carry it in'
our hearts, go where we may."
"Ave sanctissima ! we lift our hearts to thee;
Ora pro nobis I'tis nightfall on the sea*!
Sweet mother, sweet mother, hear ! "
The Empress began her song.   With her long dark hair
loosened from the comb that had fastened it, falling about her
shoulders; her beautiful face, with the soul-lit eyes upturned so
ha the moonlight rested softly upon them, she seemed the
spirit of music itself, chanting of devotion and faith. Her
voice, strong, clear, and   silvery, stole out on the evening air,
and the deep basso of the Emperor, joining at the last swelled
the requiem-like straps othehe prayerful offeri-tet
foam-be mlthat were ever dancing on the wavelets as they came
and went, caught the refrain, and whispering one to another
echoed it away away, until in the deep heart of the ocean
melody and words were hushed.
"Ave Maria! 'tis nightfallon the sea!"
"One more, Carlotta ! one more," whispered the Emperor
Your voice goes to my heart to-night n      n     m o
"The one," said Carlotta, "that was sung at  nermaren
in your absence lonely hearts mourned for your return."
The Empress, who understood English perfectlyun
it with a soft, pure accent, began that old air, dear to so ke
hearts,                                     erts many
"O'er the far blue mountain,
O'er the white sea-foam,
'Come, thou long-parted one,
Come to thy home!i
When the bright fire shineth
Sad is thy pace
When the true heart pineth,
Missing thy face."
"n Adnw" cried the ".Ad oEmpes-"
have   now,"ward he Empress, her song finish ed, "am I to
haeno. reward ?  I have done my best,.a i'o Icam  ob
silent, and listen oyu  a eybsad now I claim to be
silnt ad isento you, Maximilian."
"Your music has indeed d
touched the deep chords of myhert,   Crogh .for t has
memories of the 'white sea-fmyheart, and brought back Do y
know, that, often as I have bid adieundo thealand, ad fel  y

II1

4

i


self on the broadocean, away from ties of home and kindred, I
have never gotten over the melancholy pleasure that creeps
into one's heart. Byron's magnificent 'Farewell to England'
involuntarily rises to my lips."
"Repeat it, repeat it, Maximilian," cried Carlotta, eagerly.
Standing with one hand upon the low railing, and an arm
encircling his wife, in low, melodious tones, as if the sentiment
found voice in the silent chambers of his own soul, Maximilian
repeated: that exquisitely touching lament of an unhappy,
lonely heart:
"Adieu, adieu! my native shore
Fades o'er the waters blue,
The night winds shriek; the breakers roar ;
And shrieks the wild sea-mew.
You sun that sets upon the sea
We follow in his flight,
Farewell awhile to him and thee,
My native land, good-night.+
" And now I'm in the world alone,
Upon the wide, wide sea;
But why should I for others mourn,
when none will sigh for me?-
Perchance my dog will whine in vain
Till fed by stranger hands ;
But long ere I come back again,
He'd tear me 'where he stands.
"With thee, my bark, I'11 swiftly go
Athwart the foaming brine;
Nor care what landthou bear'st me to,
r            So not again to mine.
Welcome, welcome, ye dark blue waves!'
And when you fail my sight,
Welcome, ye deserts and yecaves;
My native land, good-night !"
-" A dreary plaint ! " said the Emperor, as he finished. -' Poor
Byron! truly infelix/     Gifted, impassioned, and erratic; wear-
mg a coronet placed upon his brow by Genius herself; yet mis-
erable, undone, from his own vices ! Unhappy, lonely, and love-
less he died; and found but few to weep over his tomb, and
fewer still to do his memory justice.     The bitter, misanthrop-
ical nature which was unfortunately his heritage, and for which
he was hardly responsible, since it was constitutional, still had
many redeeming points; and occasionally, when the mists were
dispelled that enveloped his heart, there were glimpses of light,
of soft, tender light, discerned amid the flashes of genius, that
told of the fires of human love and kindly sympathy burning
within."
"Yes," said. the Empress, " the many acts of kindness num-
bered by his biographers; the glorious genius, with its burning

CROWN JT WEL,9:

150

1
4
f
i
P,
4 '
i t
tp~
w!
7.. Yp
,yk }
_F v
Y
y
i}
i   z  1
f
t:
, , yyyy

poetic eloquence, plead his cause; and, casting light over the
dark shadows of his nature, leave his name and memory within
the range of pity and forgiveness. Had Lady Byron clung to
her husband, and exercised one-half the long-suffering and for-
bearance that glorifies thousands of 'Love's silent martyrs,' who
have worn out their lives, enduring and forgiving, perhaps Time,
with the holy ministry of love and truth, would have exorcised
those 'flesh phantasms' that haunted and polluted Byron's
soul; and the seraph watchers that had veiled their faces and
wept over his degradation, might have swept with angelic wing
through the 'god-like temple;' and as they passed, touched; his
harp, and breathed into the strains a divine -spirit, that would
have given him a crown of glory in eternity ! And yet," she
added sadly, "think of his lonely death in a strange land ! "
"But you forget, Carlotta," said the Emperor, "in the im-
pulse of your generous heart, and in your admiration of By-
ron's genius, that there ran through his nature a vein of wild mel-
ancholy, that at times, deepening into nervous despair, betrayed
him into acts which perhaps rendered Lady Byron's life almost
unendurable. Byron sinned, and his wife suffered ; how deeply,
no one can ever know; but there must have been vital causes
to induce her to pursue the course she did ; for no true woman,
I am convinc d, high or low, so long as she sees the least hope
of reforming or saving a man, will desert .him. The spirit of
black, bat-like melancholy was, we say, constitutional with By-
ron; but, for that reason, it did not call for the sacrifice of
Lady Byron's life and peace. She felt, doubtless, that no
change of time or place could make her husband aught but
what he was : her influence was nothing, and there was no hope
in the future; so'she left him, and in the eyes of the world
stands justified. Each had their friends who appreciated
them; and now the shadow-of the grave has closed over both,
and death throws about them the halo through which charity
ever views the actions of weak human children."
There was a silence, and both Maximilian and .Carlotta were
lost in deep musing.
" See !" exclaimed the latter at last, ' "how the white foam"
rises in the path of the ship, and how the lights in the 'hsmis
gleam over the water:! How fast we go ! onward, onward to
a new home ! It will seem very strange at first to be in
Mexico. The manners and customs of the people are sokdiffer-
ent from our own; and yet it will be -our home, and they, our
people."

'151

10  CROWN JWJEWELS.

r
,Y


152

CROWN JEWELS.

4

"Philosophy teaches us, Carlotta, that he is a wise man who
esteems himself a citizen of the world, a true, contented cos-
mopolite. Learning a lesson from one of the ancient sages,
who pointed to Heaven as his country, mere change of place
should never bring discontent nor repining. Varro, who,
among the Romans was a fountain of wisdom, argued that
Nature is the same everywhere ; and that, that single circum-
stance should be sufficient to reconcile a man even to exile or
banishment. Yes; we have the same God everywhere to send
the budding Spring and luscious Summer, the glorious Autumn
and the hoary Winter. Neither does humanity, in its general-
form, change its aspect. We see everywhere the same great
tide of mortal life ebbing and flowing ; influenced by the same
principles of virtue and vice, and bearing all onward to the one
haven - the death-kingdom, at last. And, Carlotta," he whis-
pered, "we shall keep the same:hearts throbbing in unison ; and
while we have faith in God, faith in love, and faith in our-
selves, we shall be happy ! "
" Yes, Maximilian, we shall not only be happy ourselves, but
shall make our subjects so. It is no low, selfish ambition, no
maddening, insane love of power, that leads you to Mexicp;
but a deep, sincere feeling that it is for her good, for your good,
and for, the world's' good ; and relying, as you say, upon our
strong faith, supported by a stronger will, Mexico, our country,
must shine as we would see her in the national galaxy ! "
The mists were gathering, and hanging heavy and damp over
the vessel, before the Emperor and Empress retired from the
deck.
Silence in power waves her sceptre over land and sea, and
all things bow before the mandate of repose.
" Creation sleeps !"
And as, in the vision of Zachariah, the messengers answered
unto the angel of.the Lord that stood among the myrtle trees.:
"We have walked to and fro through the earth; all the earth
sitteth still and is at rest," so on the sea, as on the land, there
brooded the same unbroken spirit of quietude. -No sound was
heard save the rolling waves of the restless ocean keeping time
with the dropping sands, as the hours go by, echoing the "All's
well! " of the pilot at the wheel.
The midnight hours are waning, and the night grows on
apace. The shrill voice of the sea-gull breaks harshly and dis-
cordantly on the still air, and the lights burn dimly on board
the Novara~ and the T4smis.

CROWN JEWELS.

153

The Emperor was indeed right. God and nature are the same
everywhere. Rising beyond the reach of human power and
human ken, their, laws remain immutable and unchanged.
Empires may rise and fall; nations may shout and groan;
rivers of blood may flow; but it all does not stop or alter the
course of one of the myriads of the planetary host, which, as
they move on to the exquisite harmony of the "music of the
spheres," bid us hasten to the death of Time and the birth of
Eternity, little reeking of the Babel-temples that are building
and mouldering below.
Shine on, oh stars ! Surge on, ocean! "Man may mark
the earth with ruin; but his domain stops with the sea'! "  On
thee the Eternal One plants His footsteps, and cries, " Thus far
and no farther ;" and Time itself, " which is alike the Lucina
and Atropos of all things, and antiquates antiquities," sweeps
in vain over thy bosom, whose movements are controlled only
by the One that rides upon the storm.
7*
END, OF BOOK FIRST.

I
i
;
t y yy[+
S
"Wc
.   f


rTh

CROWN JEWELS.
BOOK SECOND.
"JUDGING that he will have employed the most effectual means of being a powerful
and happy King, not by governing the most numerous, but the most moral people ; he
deems it of small sufficiency to have protected the country by fleets and garrisons, un-
less he shall at the same time enrich and illustrate it with men of, eminent learning and
sanctify; for these, verily, he conceives to be the true ornaments and wealth of his king-
dom; these, its only genuine and imperishable glories."

I


BOOK SECOND.
CHAPTER XVII.
N EZ, queridd mia, Adios!"
" Adios, Giulian ? You leave Querataro ?"
"To-morrow," replied the fir t speaker, a tall, -hand-
some young man; bearing in his dark, rich complexion
the mark of Spanish blood, had not his words been in that
musical language. His companion was a young girl of extra-
ordinary beauty, and seemed, from the shade of sadness gather-
ing on her face, not well pleased with the communication he
had made.
They stood near the open casement, at the south end of the
drawing-room, and looked out upon the glorious sunset view.
There was the valley in which the city of Querataro stands,
stretching away - away; now bathed in golden light, now fall-
ing into deep shadow, until at last it is lost to sight ; and the
distant hills, half enveloped in mist, loom up grandly and
solemnly behind. The soft southern breeze that had kissed those
giant hill-tops, played through the curtains; lingering for a mo-1
ment in the grand drawing-room, listening stealthily to the love-
promises of the betrothed ; and then, with sudden thought of
those, who on fevered couches in the city beyond, are languish-
ing for its soothing breath, impatient at its long delay, with
gentle rebuke, and chiding of its careless, thoughtless heart,
it steals onward, fulfilling its mission of love and health,
"What has wrought-such a change with you, Giulian?  1
thought you were to remain here with General Meija's com-
mand during the summer; why do you leave Querataro so
soon? Are there to be any military changes?"
(157)


158               CROW   JEWELS.                           JEWELS.

"No ; General Meija will still remain here ; but
ious to get to the capital before the "Grand Jubilate
been released by resigning my position here. The
and Empress, you know, are now crossing the ocean
bably reach Vera Cruz in a week, and will be receive
co City, sometime in June."
" Then, I guess rightly," said Inez quickly, a smile
passing over her face. " You do not intend withdr
the Imperial army, as I feared, but will offer .your
the Emperor himself ? "
" Withdraw from the Imperial army? " said the yo
reproachfully, as he glanced lovingly at the gold-er
uniform he wore; "why, the cause of the Empire i~
one which will bring peace and prosperity to our poo
and any ruler is welcomed as a saviour who will giv
blessings, No, Inez; be assured I do not lightly ple
to any one; but when once given, my word is as firm a
I shall serve the Empire, and the Emperor as long as
But, tell me of yourself !- I know that your brotl
Juarez, and, now that we are politically enemies, his
me is more intense than ever. Inez, you know ho
and truly I love you: does this step sever the link be
Which will you follow?"
"Giulian," said the girl reproachfully, "have we k
other from childhood so well, and still you read, n
poorly? Gonzales goes his own way. My heart an
pathies are with the Empire!"
It was now the shadow on the lover's face that lifted
and his dark eyes shone brightly beneath the large, fi
" Now I am satisfied, my own," he exclaimed, "sin
that in thought and heart we are not divided ! An
future, Inez, you shall love me, not in the quiet, si
that you now do, that makes me fear always, when
near to guard.my treasure, another may come and st
heart for the moment, and make you believe that
them  better Jthan Giulian'! No - no! Inez," he
fervently, while he placed his hand upon his heart,"
love in here, beating deep 'and strong, will not let y
will not let you learn to love another more dearly
was something of triumph in his tone, as he so pr
claimed to her his love, and his gaze rested tenderly'
In a moment, again his voice softened and grew almos
"mIe;, say you will not let anything, or any one,

I am anx-
" and have
Emperor
; will pro-.
d at Mexi-
of pleasure
wing from
ervices to
ng officer
broidered
the only
country;
a us these
dge myself-
adamant.
life lasts!
er follows
hatred to
tenderly
tween us?
own each
heart so
my sym-
d its wing,
u11 brow.
ce I know
d for the
terly way
I am not
up your
you love
continued
this great
u escape;
" There-
udly pro-
upon her.
Spreading.
come be-

jCF
t- TVYc
r
. 3 4
rr   r

K

DROWN JEWELS.                159

tween us ; say you will learn to love me, more than all else!"
His voice sank to a whisper as he bent. over and gently drew
her to him.
" Giulian," said the girl, " have I not promised you long ago,
that no one should take me from you? Even Gonzales with his
hatred, cannot move me. Do not fear. I am my father's'own
daughter ! " she continued, with sudden energy, " and when my
word is pledged, no power on earth, nay, nor in the death-king-
doms, can force me to falsify a promise ! "
There was a hissing sound near them; and a rustling in the
long curtains, that divided the drawing-room from the library.
Captain Navarro and Inez looked hastily around. All was still
--it was nothing; only the wind, that was again listening to
their pledges.
"Then I am forever content; for those words are a tower of
strength to my heart ! But tell me, do Anita and yourself
remain here alone, and unprotected?"
" Humph!" said Inez with a little laugh, "old Pietro the
gardener is quite strong enough to care for such poor, useless
bootyas Anita and myself. As for Juan, -Captain Gonzales,
under General Diaz now--you know he has been at home since
the fall of Puebla. I do not think he will remain here long,
though. Auita and I have no fear; though t.is lonely enough,
and it would be more pleasant in Mexico City, where my uncle
lives. All joy and happiness is gone from this home, since -"
her voice faltered, and a vision of anguish seemed to pass
before her.
" I know, I know ! " said the lover, "a dark and evil day it
was when Don Juan Gonzales was taken out of the world; not
for you alone, Inez, but'for one, who, though orphaned, found in
him a true father. But these are bitter things; and it is only
harrowing the heart to recall them. Be comforted, dear one; and
remember there is one who will care for you unto death! How
does Anita seem to feel in regard to Captain Gonzales' course ?"
" No drop of Aniita's blood runs in Juan's veins; she was the
sister of my mother, not his, you remember; and he, thank God !
is responsible for himself alone. How he can reconcile himself
to- espouse a cause which he knows was, directly or indirectly,
connected with his father's death, I cannot understand; but it
shows forth most truly his utter want of feeling. No ; Aiita of
the old Spanish school, is. heart and soul for the Empire!"
" Then with -this good news I must go. There is one thing
more, Inez -something you must give me to take with me; some-


160                 CROWN JEWELS.
thing that shall breathe a reality into my life ; that shall make
me strong, and brave, and hopeful, in the monthis~that may pass
before I look into your face again. Promise me again, that, how-
ever we may be parted, you will let none other come between
us; that neither fear, nor doubt, nor shadow of doubt may ever
separate us!"
He drew her tenderly towards him: and in low, soft accents
Inez answered solemnly:
"I do promise thee, Giulian Navarro, that n' one, - that
neither fear, nor doubt, nor shadow of doubt, shall come to
separate me from thee."
Again, there was a rustling m the curtain, but unnoticed now
by the two, who were parting.
" Adios, my own ! "
" Bendicta, Giulian ! "
Inez followed the young officer half-way across the apartment.
As he went out, she turned back to hide the womanly tears
that rose to her eyes, and found herself face to face with a man
of dark, swarthy complexion, some ten years older than herself,
dressed in the uniform of a Liberal officer.
For a moment Inez stood in silence, looking up into the glit-
tering, vengeful eyes that were bent upon her. The man was
the first to speak.
"Aye, thy father's own daughter !" he exclaimed in a voice
of concentrated rage and scorn, "and a creditable descendant
he has, truly! One of the house of Gonzalesclotting with a
traitor; and Anita, too, the old wretch, has joined this beauti-
ful league ! "
The weakness was all gone from Inez, and her proud Spanish
blood fired and burned in her veins at the taunts that her
brother well-nigh hissed into her ear. "And thou, Juan Gonza-
les, thy father's own son, in league with his murderers! How
dare you," she exclaimed, "come into this house, clad in such
guise, -an insult to his memory ?"  The commanding voice,
so full of scorn and defiance, suited well the proud, queenly
air, the girl unconsciously wore.
"aHa ! " exclaimed the brother, 4you make love with an at-
tache of the Imperial usurper, and faint at the emblem of Repub-
lican freedom. And you, too, in your devotion to your Em-
wortlhv uncle - who is prompted by a laudable desire to save
his pieoperty - in kissing the dust upon which His Royal
Majesty condescends to tread! A loyal pair, Captain Navarro,

CRO    JEWELS                161

4,
" j

and his new convert ! May His Majesty have many such
honorable followers, is the worst wish I can make for him !"
continued the speaker, betraying, consciously or unconsciously,
in his splenetic words, the mysterious rustling of the moment
before; and disclosing also the honorable position he had occu-
pied.
"We shall see," said he, mockingly, "what these fine vows and
promises between Giulian Navarro and yourself shall amount to !
I am your natural guardian; and though naught shall come be-
tween him and thee, yet I shall put this slight barrier between
you! "drawing his sword fiercely from its sheath-" 1, too, bve
an oath to record. I do solemnly swear to you here, by the
God above, and by the strength that lies in this good sword, that
never while I live shall Inez Gonzales wed this traitorous
dog!"
" That weak and wicked vow is not heard above: for Truth
and Right," cried Inez, lifting her hands upward. "Truth and
Right shall clash swords with thee, and dash thy vaunted
strength to atoms!  You, my natural guardian ! Giulian Na-
varro has been to Anita and myself more a relative and protec-
tor than you have ever been ; and I will not 'longer listen to
this abuse of one who has more honor and chivalry in one
thought, Juan Gonzales, than you dan ever understand ! "
A loud, sarcastic laugh greeted the girl's spirited words ;
and Gonzales, taking a turn around the apartment, again
stopped near her.
" Ah! well, our high-tragedy queen ! " exclaimed he, "we
have each indulged in. melo-drama quite enough. Navarro and
I are enemies ; you and I are, I suppose, enemies too; but
take care that I am not found the strongest in the end. I, too,
have come to say Adios, but had almost forgotten it. I'have
just bid Aflita farewell, -left her weeping, Hof course. How
you two do love me ! You do love me so,
"You would send my soul to Heaven,
It heaven would take the present at your hands!' -
awhich I very much doubt., I was seeking you, Inez, for an
affectionate parting, when I caught a ghmpse through the
lbaycurtains of your little- romance ; and though I per-
mitted it to go on undisturbed, I quieted the hate in my bosom
by whispering to it w'Bidehyour time.' I think, perhaps, you
me hereafter with General Diabouwho has just defeated  arc


CROW JEWELS.             163

162             CROWN JEWELS.

force at Juajuapan. General Uragh, our commander-in-chief,
is at Guadalajara, with 10,000 -"
"cSpare me! spare me! " cried Inez, impatiently, "the recital
of your victories and your strength!"
" Ah! yo would have me off; and, doubtless, are reserving
our patience and eagerness to listen to the details of the
ompnd slender with which His Majesty will be received.
eaven send destroying winds and wave, that he may never
reach shore again ! "
re No, no, Gonzales; do not curse Mexico with such a wish !
This Emperor Maximilian will bring us life and peace ! No ; it
is this opposition to a firm and stable government that would
ruin Mexico. And you, Juan, can fight side by side with your
father's murderers; aiding an unjust, unholy cause, whose fol-
lowers know no mercy, but with greedy brutality shed the
blood of their countrymen for a lump of gold ! "  She covered
Lher face with her hands, and a convulsive shudder passed over
her as she uttered the last words.
" Inez, will you never cease your unjust accusations? You
have no convincing proof that our father fell by the hand
of the Liberals. That they wore the same uniform.is no argu-
ment, since it can be easily adopted as a disguise by the bands
of independent guerillas or robbers that infest thecountry."
"Convincing proof; you say, is needed, Juan?  Ah! had you
but seen them, as we did, you would ask no more ! A company
of wild-looking men, armed to the teeth,.every word an oath or
fearful threat, rushing into my father's room there, crying out
in impatient haste and greed for 'gold ! gold!' and when to
all the protestations of Anita, my father, and myself, that
' there was none here: that all we had, had been sent to Mex-
ico;' there was but one answer, 'You lie !' And at last, mad-
dened by fruitless search 'and disappointed avarice, they fin-
ished their work; and left Anita and myself despairing and
weeping over our murdered dead ! Inez covered her face with
her hands and a shudder ran over her frame.
" But, Inez," said Gonzales, softened by the recital of his
father's death, "there are bad men that will join every cause;
ou should not condemn it, therefore, as unholy."
"These men, you know, Gonzales, are not "the few" who
have joined the Republican cause ; there are many such, fighting
under the same banner, and God help us, when they are forced
to disband, unless they are totally 'defeated ; for Juarez' guer-
ima bands are like hungry wolves, ravaging friend and foe."

t
s      LL
1
r
a
' ap
JS E'y'

" Well ! " cried Gonzales, with impatience, "they fight now,
good and bad; for a noble cause, for the freedom of our country;
and we must endure private wrongs for the public good."
Our country?" said Inez. "I would die as willingly as
Iphigenia, could I but bring peace to Mexico ! But, after all,
what is a country and life without friends, with blasted hopes
and murdered memories ?    Talk of -Republican freedom!
What has Mexico's twenty-three Presidents done to elevate
her in all these years past?  See what we are now: neither
life religion,law, nor property is regarded; and I do cry out,
Welcome-! to the one who will establish these monuments of
civilization in our midst."
"I have no time to listen to your sentimental raving," said
the officer impatiently. 'I have stayed too long already. I have
said 'Adios' to Anita ; but to you I will only say 'Au revoir ! '
since we shall meet again, ere long, in the capital, where, we
shall see the President of the Mexican Republic!"
" Heaven forbid! "
Heaven speed it ! And bear in mind one little point; that I
am afraid you may forget: -never think yourself too secure;
for neither prophecies, nor vows are lightly made by Juan Gon-
zales! You know me of old, and know what to expect in the
future ! Au r evoiI"
Such was, the parting; ill-omeged for the future. It seemed a
stange thing to call Inez Gonzales and the man who had just
let wer brother and sister ; for' they themselves scarcely ac-
nowedged the relationship. Their father, Don Juan Goza-
les, had been a wealthy citizen of Querataro; and had met his
death, a few days after the fall of Puebla, at the hands of a
marauding party belonging to the Liberal army; who murdered
him, because, as they imagined, he refused to yield to them his
hidden gold. In his early manhood Don Juan Gonzales had
come from Spain, with a brother; who, like himself, had set
himself to work to accumulate a fortune in the new-found El-
dorado. Their hopes were in a measure fulfilled; and Don
Juan had married, shortly after reaching Mexico, a beautiful
Mexican girl, who brought him a handsome property; butwh
scarcely lived to enjoy her happiness five years before she died,
leaving one son, the Juan Gonzales whom we have already
seen. After the death of his wife, Don Juan had taken
is   le son and returned to Spain to spend a few years
ihis native land. During those years he loved a&amp;nd wedded
a beautiful maiden of Madrid; and he had brought her, with


CROWN JEWELS.              165

104             CROWN JEWELS.

fond dreams of future happiness, to fill the void in his home
at Querataro. But alas! she had proved too frail for the
climate of the tropical region; and the first summer saw her,
too, wither and die, leaving behind a little infant, Inez, to the
care of the broken-hearted husband, and an older sister, who
had accompanied them to Mexico, Donna Auita. From the
period of his wife's death, Don Juan' Gonzales was changed.,
After the first shock of grief was over, he had become stoically
hardened ; and the free, warm sympathy that was before welling
up in his heart for others, seemed to have dried up; and he was
only a man' of the world, intent upon securing the golden treas-
ure. And .he had succeeded ; he had amassed a magnificent
fortune, and had made his home in the suburbs of Querataro'a
habitation fit for a prince. There was one to whom he seemed
to lean with tenderness, and on whom he lavished all care and
attention, -the little Inez. Juan, his son, lacked for naught
to make his boyhood happy; but it was on Inez, as she grew
u   that the father's hopes seemed to centre. The best masters
from Havana were procured to give her a thorough and fin-
ished education ; so that, upon.reaching the age of seventeen,
she was a most accomplished woman, speaking two or three
different languages, and excelling in music, particularly on the
harp, which was her favorite instrument. And yet, though
possssed of so much knowledge of the world, - the natural
world, -its wonders and treasures ; brought up in the con--
stant companionship of Afiita, her father, and her masters,
Inez had no practical ideas of life ; or of the great moving mass
of humanity;- coming and going in the world afar :. her books
and her home were all the world to her.
Giulian Navarro was an orphan, and had been left with his
property to the care of Don Juan Gonzales. As his father had
been a strong friend, his guardian had taken him to his home,
and brought him up as his own child.   Before time came
for him to leave Querataro for school, the boy had declared his
devotion to the little Inez; and when in later years it became
the love of a man for the beautiful mairken, it met the cordial
approval of Don Juan, who esteemed his ward for his real
worth..
But Juan, the brother, with a selfish, vindictive spirit that
had betrayed itself in his childhood, and that only strengthened
as he grew older, had found it impossible to live on terms of
peace with his adopted brother; and when each had reached
the estate of manhood, his sarcasms and jibes 'became insults;

until at last Giulian had left the home, and gone to the cap.
ital, to Don Juan's brother, to begin  life in earnest. The
fortunes of war had thrown him, upon the occasion which .be-
gins this chapter, in Querataro; and Inez, as a woman, again
met her lover.
A strange feeling it was Inez had for Giulian; she knew
she loved him, and yet it was not that wild, intense emotion,
such as she had read of in the old romances, -- an emotion, she
could not understand at all. She wished she could feel such
love for Giulian; because she knew it would make him so
happy. She wished Giulian had been her brother, instead of
Juan. Juan would not let her love him; and he hated not only
Giulian, but herself, too ; and who cared if he did, tyrannical,
overbearing spirit that. he was?  But she was very sorry he
had made that vow ;, she was afraid of it - afraid of Juan; for
when he tried he was terrible in intrigue, cunning, and re-
venge.
Inez left the window of the drawing-room, where she had
been standing alone, while these thoughts ran through her
mind, and passing through the hall~entered her aunt's private
sittng-room, where she found Anita engaged as usual, over
a    o      Spanish Romances;" so absorbed, that she was
scarcely conscious that any one came in.
nez quietly seated herself ona low ottoman at her feet, and
looked up wistfully at the portrait of her mother, which hung
just opposite. A beautiful, girlish face it was, half shaded by
the long Spanish veil which was thrown over her head and-
twined about her shoulders.  She had been dead now just
eighteen years; and for eighteen years that portrait had hung
there, draped around with black; and now the one beside it,
er noble-lookig father, wore the pall, too.
There was a long silence. Inez sat there gazing into the eyes
of her dead parents; and Anita, in her stiff black brocade, and
the straight-back arm-chair read on: she seemed a stately
dame of the generation past.
well, Anita," said her niece at length,"they'arebt
goe",                       ent3 "hy~re both
" Gone? rWho ?  Where?" said Afnita, absently, looking
up, from her book.
"Did not Juan bid you adieu-? He and  iuli
gone!"
"NoAttgte?       re    fia wt    neetadatns

{

..
,
,'
s
k   4
,,       '
1
.y
2
:    h


166            CROWN JEWELS

o      n   said Ine, shaking her head, a half smile at
AfiiA~a's wonderment playing about her lips, "no danger of
th   paths lying in the same direction. Gonzales has gone to
Ghen.iaza and Giulian back to the capital, where the Em-
peror and Empress are to be in a few weeks. Anita, are we
to sta here through the long summer, and then straight on
Sh wter: --only you, and I, and Pietro, and his old
wife?  What a dreary, lonely time we shall have ."
"Lonely!" exclaimed Anita; " why, Inez, I. never grow
lonely!"c
"Al  "no; you have those tiresome old 'Romances;' and
then, you are not like I am."            .
"But where are your resources? Your music, your books?"
"Music, books! Aiita, I have read books until I am sick
of them!. I know fictitious people, and dead people enough ;
and am I never to know real, living ones, of flesh and blood ?
Am I to live and dream away my life at Querataro, and die
Swithoutknowingthat there are others in the world beside
ose in the narrow, confined circle here ?  0, Aita!" cried
fel     I am in the great, moving world; to feel that my life
is real, not ideal ! Why should we not go to the capital,-
is    e-o        DonRuy's, my uncle? If my father had lived,
do you think he would have kept me here always? Would the
not have taken me away from this place, where, even in the
springtime of my life, the waves of time are spell-bound, and
we are in the magic of a dead calm?
Inez had touched a new chord in Afita's heart. Never had
she heard these restless pinings before, from her idol, who now,
from her double orphanage, was more dependent upon her than
ever; and though to-night she attributed the changein Inez to
Giulian's departure, 'and the ideas he had given her of the
gayety of the capital, during his recent stay in Querataro, yet
the thought forced itself upon her, that perhaps, it was unkind
and selfish to condemn one so well fitted to shme i society, to
the strict retirement in which she had always lived. Aulita
looked    Iez   lon admiration; andasked herself the girl's
petnn qusion, "cWould her father have kept her?"     His
word had ever been the guide of their actions, and now that he
was gone, Anita strove more than ever to accord their deci-
siPerhaps  sa-kno sh alast, "it would be well enough for

OROWN JEWELS.             167

us to go for a little while to your uncle's, if it is agreeable to
him, you know. ldut we must not act hastily, Inez; we must
think what would become of oui' homeehere.
" Leave Pietro in charge;, father would have trusted him
"We could not leave before the autumn any"
Anita  half getting tatse        " a     'un ayway,"said
i,    regr      that she had given in, as Inez reconciled
the difficulties so easily; "and by that time the-countrymay
in such a state, that we cannot go at all; so try and be con-
tented where you are, Inez."  g;           r       b
"Why do you think there is to be more bloodshed? Will
not the Emperor's presence overcomealopsionadbrg
us peace at once ?a"bring
" Peace in Mexico 9 " said Aitadl       
su a i exic" scid A hiita, adly.  "Heaven send
such a miracle! Ahi child, you have not lived so long here
as I have; and still, even in our time, you have seen some-
thing of Mexican'revolution. Let me see: I was estimating
as ad twenty-three Presidents
ae Dictrs,'one Emperor, and one Generalissimo, and
' Peace,-never.' "
" A nd  why, A nlita, does  any  one   live  here, then,  that  can  t a a  h  i  yf t e  l as  ot i  o n r
get away? Why did my father e     o to thi      t      nCould
SnAh!v gone elsewhere and ben just ashappy?
it is not easy to leave one's home, and become an
exile, whether voluntary or f  d   Thn
exie,  heter  olutay o  orced.  There, is a peculiar, at-
mosphere about the place where one plants first theireownarine
and fig-tree, that one never finds elsewhere. Y
t M                  se   ere.   our father came
to Mexico, and began life, and grew attached to the country.
After your mother's death, he often    k
Spi-o  f  i,             on spoke of returning to
Spain, or of sending  ou with myself, to Madrid, where you
know my brother lives;" but yar afeYerpssd       n   hr
wasno ha untl,       yea after year passed, and there
was no change, until he grew to love you so, thatnohgbu
deathhvoyou s.th ,                            nothing but
dahcudhave parted you from him. After all,- it is  l  useless
t   y from wars and strife. Look at the United States-
tohat  'vernment that nothing could shake -'that was to stand
r       n    dismembered, and involved in a desperate civil
ar And in Europe, too, one war 'treads upon the heels of
another  France, as one of her statesmen remarked,'being the
pendulum, whose oscillations set all the worldatwr
nAh, well !" said nez, as she rose to leave, " Mexico can
now cry out 'Eureka !'    We shall now have.peace !   Our.
brave young Emperor will build us up agloriu haepe!"Ou
." God grant it !" said Aflita, fervently, " but I fear for this


CR0WN JEWELS.

young Prince. Benito Juarez has too much Indian blood in
his veins to give up.; and he is a dangerous en e  I ke
him when he, was Governor of Oajaca, in 1852, before h  his own
came~ President; and he is stubborn enough to  ave
way in whatever he undertakes."
Inez had not listened to her last words; but as she left the
rom, Anita called after her.
roomlan wil rite ?" she questioned, as she re-appeared
at the door.
"Ye, dand tell us all that transpires until we go," replied
Inez, smiling, as she closed the door.  Wl     hawa
" She is determined to have her way   Well, she always
does," murmured Aunita, half aloud. "Perhaps, after all, it
would be best: we are unprotected here, outside of the city
limits, and almost isolated; and in Mexico City we shou
perfectly safe. Juan would forbid it if he could, but we may
never see him again ; and then he is a vindictive tyrant in his
way, that deltin  thwarting the happiness of others.l I
wond," cnteinuedsAiita, in her s oliloquy, "1if Inez really
cares for Giulian more than she would for a brother. I am
afraid going to the capital, would bring no good to.hi, if she
does not. She has never seen any one else to love, and knows
so little of the world. Well; she will be a bright ornamen
at Court if she goes."
The last plea, put in by pride and vanity, was breaking dow
Afnita's objections, and her resolve to change was half-way made
already.

- - *

CHAPTER XVIII.

INA1TL, timidly, over the blue waters of the passive
sea, are creeping the beams of the morning. The rosy
4     clouds of the dawn are urpling and paling in their
changing tints, and sail over the calm sky in chaseof
the fleeing night; and now and then, through the vapory folds
eof the cirrus drapery, peer the winking stars, to catch before
they go a glimpse of the coming King of Day. Soon, from behind

the eastern rim of the distant ocean, the golden car of the mon.
arch comes rolling up; changing with its reflective rays the mon-
ple above to blue and white, and the crimson to burnished go
revealing in every bubble of frothy spray, the rainbow colors
of a diamond cluster.
Softly the morning breeze kisses the face of the waters; now
and then, with coquettish grace, stopping to toy, with aris-
igwave, and then gone, like the swift-winged bird of the
Fd gloomy days had come and gone since the No.
var left the shore;.days when no ray of sunshine comforted
the pale, clouded sky, that seemed to have sobbed itself into
unmoved, tearless grief; but on this glad mo'
One that holdeth the sunbeams in His hand had sent them, as a
quiver of golden arrows, to electrify both land and sea.
The vessels had sped onward, unmindful of clouds or shadows
The exuberance of spirit, and the gayety withwhich the members
ofthe troya party hadbegun their voyage, as if pre-determined
that there should n edounss n        nnio    ba    d a
given place to a quiet, even cheerfulness. Now and then, to
while away the long hours of the morning, the gentlemen would..
propose a game of cards; while some of the ladies would look
over the  latest periodicals, novels, etc., which covered the
tabe o th  8aon.Occasionally, sitting n a retiredconr
might be seen a couple interested in a quiet game of chessrand
judging from the time, that elapsed before the victorious shout,
roh     was heard, each one must have been an oppo-
ne wth f     a      rphy himself; it being a decided and
accepted fact among amateurs, that a long game, from whatever
cause, proves and confirms the skill of the players!
Touched v lwas -now but two days from shore. They had
touched at Madeira and Martinique, and were now pushing on
for Vera Oruz.          _p                          go
The Emperor and Empress, with some two or three ladies
and gentlemen, had come out at an early hour, to welcome the
sun, and were enj oyig, on the guards, the mrigbez.A
they stood lok gar , t e               or     reeze.A
tysto looking out on the wide" waste of watr,-arin the
distance, between sky and sea, coming nearer and nearer, until
its huge white wings were plainly seen by those who watched
its motions, was a 'sea-bird; then. rising upward, and onward,
Le     g   ocean visitor took its flight. Senor Velasquez de
ontheMunterofState, who stood near, quickly raised a
8

I1

169

E
.
a
4
1
fk
d
4
{1
]1!
5
i
a
f
f
.
k
S
r

V.
t1

CROTPN JEIPELS.

108

II


1
,1

CROWhT JEW1ELs.

iver-mounted pistol, and pointed it, with deadly aim. His
hand was stayed by the Empress, who cried out hastily;-
"'God save thee, Ancient Mariner!
For thou would'st do a hellish thing,
And it would work us woe ;
For all aver thou'dst kill the bird
That makes the breeze to blow."'
An exclamation of merriment from those around greeted the
Empress's superstitious words.
" An albatross 1" exclaimed Senor Velasquez. No, no, your
Majesty, not in these American waters.. But how it makes.
One shudder to remember that fearful 'Rime!'           It made my
blood run cold when first I read it, and truly I sympathized
with the 'Wedding Guest.'
'I fear thee, Ancient Mariner,
I fear thy skinny hand ;
And.thou art long, and lank, and brown,
As is the ribbed sea-sand ;
I fear thee, and thy glittering eyes,
And thy skinny hand, so brown."'
"Wind dead ahead !" sang out the pilot at the wheel. "CMon
pieu, Seuor Velasquez ! " cried the Countess Kollonitz. "With
all your poetizing, you are bringing bad luck !     If we were in a
sailing vessel now, we could not permit these heathen invocations
and repetitions."
"But listen, Countess, to the talisman that drives away evil,
and unloosed the poor Mariner from the dead calm,-
"'The self-same moment I could pray,
And from my neck, so free,
The albatross fell off, and sank,
Like lead, into the sea.'
" And you remember, Senor," said the Empress, turning from
the Emperor, and the gentlemen, who had drifted into the sea of
politics, the relations between France and Prussia, etc., "you
remember the beautiful verse near the end,
"'There was another, softer voice,
As soft as honey dew,
Quoth he, "The man hath-'penance done,
And penance more will do.""'
"Oh,- dream of joy !" cried Seftor Velasquez, taking up the
poem when the Empress paused-

d 4
If
{i
1f
ii

"'Oh, dream of joy-is"this, indeed,
The light-house top I see ; *
Is this the hill--is this thle kirk,
Is this mine own countree ?
We drifted down the harbor bay
And I with sobs did pray,
'Oh I let me be awake, my God,
Or let me sleep always'
Your hand, Senor Velasquez ! " cried the Empress, as the
recitalceased, "your hand ! "  The Minister bent before her,
air tok te offered palm.,"We are sworn allies,andener
of Samuel Taylor Coleridge."                and defenders
"-Who stands side by side, your M*esty, not one whit below
William Wordsworth, and Robert Matey     Three poet bey
areof  hom  nglrid  rtSouthey. . Three poets they
are, of whom  England has good cause t    os.Ady
Coleridgehsnvrbea           o    as to. boast. And_ yet
Coleridge has- never been properly appreciated, save by the
few. His poetry and philosophy, does not suitvthegeneral
reader; and yet it seems to me hard for one to read that beauti-
ful, simple, and I had almost said matchless poem, 'Christabel,
and afterwards lift their voice against its author.
Christabel and the Lady Geraldine," said the Empress. c"You
are right, senor ; whatever fault may be found in his -diction
and style, heawas without doubt a great writer. His prose
compositions are too lxetaphysisal and abstruse, deal too much
with abstract principles, to be generally read or understood; but
his dramas, .'Zapdyla2 and ('-Remorse,' and hssotrpee
as well as the translations from our German Schiller, for which
te English owe him many thanks,'  hee iv-imclimt
no ininfcatpa       any      s, --these give himn claim to
no insignificant place among the great intelleculsiis"
."Yes," plied Senor Velasquez "he was certainly oe in-
spired; and upon every subject he touched, left "
the brightness                          le-f,  something g of
o genus. In reading his poetry, each sentence
seems the outpouring of one's hear - th
which alt er, -houghts and feelings
all have experienced, and have yet been unable to ex.
press. It is  is, that elevates Genius above mankind;  the
power to clothe in words, - to present i tangible form, so a
tored undrstdby the common mind, ideas, deep, holy, and
sacreduantye causing them to lose nothing of their loftiness
S  y, by clothing them in an earthly dress; to make
every one recognize emotions and. thoughts that they have had
ousand times, and to present them   so simplytt
seems as i f 'a child  ' he             sml, that i.t
might have written them."
"oA comparison between Wordsworth, Coleridge, and Southey
wolld perhaps seem invidious; but though the 'Elxcursion ' is
file wthgrand, holy thoughts, 'oni man, on nature, and onhu-i.

171

ARO W2 JEWEL

170


IE*
jri1

CROWN JEWELS.

man life,' yet, when we reach the end, it seems to me there is still
a something lacking to make it complete ; a 'je ne sais quoi,,
as the French would say," said the Empress.
" And Southey?" said the se5or, "the one, who framed of
Thalaba, the wild and wondrous song?"
" Ah! he gives the low echoes, of the 'still, sad music of
humanity!
"And   hen, too, your Majesty, he has given to'woman her
true place and clothed her in garments of spotless purity and
innocence."
"Do you know, Sefior," said the Empress,--" do you know, in
recalling the names of the dead sons of genius, that my heart does
not linger so lovingly about those whom the world delighted
to love and honor, but turns rather to those whose spirits were
chilled by the frost of criticism; whose hopes, beating strong
in outhful ardor, were dashed by disappointment, and the crys-
tal waters of the fountain within their souls were frozen by the
coldness of those above them, who should have taken them by
the hand, and bid them 'come up beside us, for ye are likewise
our brothers !' There is a soft, pathetic tenderness about the
names, of Kirke White and Keats, that ,commends them to the
heart. Why is the world, great spirits and small, so loth to
accord the meed to merit when deserved? Many, whose names
are worshipped now, and whose tombs form a Mecca for admir-
ing posterity, lived unhonored and almost unknown. When
the voice of praise can give comfort to a struggling heart, it
is hushed; but when the spirit, worn out with earth trials
a     of fl ingingits soul's wealth away, soars to heaven,
beyond the reach of mortality, then the diamonds are gath-
ered together, and the world seems striving to re-animate the
mouldering sleeper, by shouting forth, " A King hath been
among us ! " Ah ! posthumous fame is a bitter, bootless re-
ward for all this toilsome earth-striving !  'No flattery may
soothe the dull, cold ear of death! "'
Seuor Velasquez had listened, with rapt attention, to the
earnest expressive words of the Empress.,
" Ali! your Majesty," exclaimed he, with delight, "it takes a
heart like your own to feel thus ! Mexico may indeed rejoice
at her good fortune; for we know now, that your Majesty will
extend a gracious patronage to foster and encourage genius and
talent. The presence of pure,. noble infliences, teaching les-
sons of morality, in the sweet strains of Isong, and instilling

i
$
FR1'
t ji
3 15
7+4;f
ll

precepts of wisdom  in the. attractive guise of romance, are.
great helpers in the task of elevating and refining the soul."
"It is the earnest desire of both the Emperor and myself,"
replied the Empress, to raise the standard of everything in
Mexico to the proper level; to lift up the lower links in the
chain of society, that now drag in the dust of wretchedness and
ignorance. To do this, we know, that our-first care must be for
the physical man. We must teach them to secure the comforts
of life, before we begin to tell them of the cravings of an inner
nature. Let the arts; the industrial arts, come first; and the
sciences will follow. When the mind once shakes off the pall
of ignorance and lethargy; as a prisoner unshackled or a bird
uncaged, it delights in its new-found freedom  and power;
though it tests them timidly at first, yet it longs'for a wider,
broader range. Those who .feel the need of the life-giving princi.
.ple in Mexico, I am convinced, will aid us in leading the masses
from one stage to another, until educational advantages han be
offered, and will be gladly taken hold of by all, both high and
. And your Majesty this thing of education, has gotten to
be a necessity in the path of civilization. Without it you can
scarcely inculcate even a spirit of patriotism, national pride, or
individual self-respect. And knowledge is-one of the few jewels
that is divisible to infinity, and gains in the ratio that it is
separated. Science, and its study is not intended to be a sealed
book, open only to a learned few. The more it is simplified,
the more it throws aside its technical mysteries and empirical
attributes, the nearer it approaches its true mission, which is,
to be a lantern in the hand of every honest seeker after truth,.
illuminating for them the darkest recesses of nature, and dis-
closng the gems that lie hidden there. Though, at the present
time, the arts and everything is at such a low ebb in Mexico,
yet it has not always been so. Under the Spanish rule,
your Majesty remembers, . there were Academies of Sculpture.
and Painting established, where pupils were taught free of
charge; and, 'every night,' M. Humboldt tells us, 'in the spa-
cious halls of these buildings, brilliafitly illuminated by argand
lamps, hundreds of young men assembled ; some sketching
from plaster-casts, or from life,  others, copying designs of fur
nature, bronze ornaments, etc.; all classes were seen mingled to..
gether,.- and the instruction was as freely given to the humble
Indian youth, as to the son of the richest property-holder.' The
Academy was furnished with teachers, and sustained by the

cRnoww JEWELS.

172

0

173,


-11

i1
i
l

1                   CROWN JEW    LS.
Spanish Government. The influences of this tutelage, it is
true have been lost among the people since he overthrow of'
Spanish power, but they are still to be.seen i the buildings of
the different cities, which are finished with poble and simple
taste. Mexico has one name to show to j the world ; the
sculptor Tolsa, whose work - the magmficent equestrian
statue of Charles IV., is said to be worthy of the genius of
country. It formerly stood in the Grand Plaza, infront of
the National Palace, in Mexico City, but as it afterwards grew
to be an eyesore to the Republican leaders, ome of them had
it removed to the court-yard of the National Museum."
"Ah 1 well! " said the Empress, "I trust we shall waken,
up all the talent, which must be hidden somewhere in Mexico,
and before five years will have rolled away,.we shall have
poets, and writers, and artists enough to for  a literature and
a school of painting of our own."
"And to which shall we give the precedence -poetry or
pose ?" asked Senor Yelasquez, smiling.
pr"We shall be thankful for- both or either. The people will
call for prose; the romantic, dreaming spirit will welcome the
poet's muse. Poetry idealizes life for us; an  by the magic of
single word, a half-sentence, reveals, to us a world of imagery
and sentiment. In a fictitious story, which orms the majority
of prose compositions, we look for something more : a plot,
which interests the listener, by hinting at something hidden, to
be disclosed at the proper moment. See the skill with which
the writers who endeavor .to catch the 'Ivox populi,' who write
for the masses, clothe their ideas and, conceptions; they' aim
not so much at elegance of style and beauty of diction, but
'gaintfavor with the multitude, by 'using pure Anglo-Saxon
ut two syllables in length.' Herein lies the great charm
of that English writer, Dickens. He has studied the varying
humors of mankind, until with every stroke of his pen he
gives you a -sketch of yourself, or your ne t neighbor. But
what a gale the wind blows ! It doesn't intend we shall stay
out much longer ! "
Just then the veil that had protected her Majesty's head
from the damp of the morning, was wrested away by the wind;
and, toying hither and thither, it fell at la~st upon a crested
wave, and was swallowed up by the rolling waters.
"Your Majesty has been forced to yield 4 tribute," said the
Emperor, approaching ; " but, fortunately, not a very heavy one,.
It would be best perhaps to retire to the salon; for we are

i
.t

likely to have a sharp, rough sea, if the wind continues at
this rate. You know these tropical regions, Sefor; think you
it will last?"
"Not very long, I guess," replied Senor Velasquez, glancing
up at the clouds floating in feathery 'lightness over the sky.
" We are not near enough to the Gulf, I think, to apprehend
a 'Norte,' which your Majesty will fully understand and ap
preciate, when I tell you it is the same as the 'Bora' of the
Adriatic."
"A Bora ! Heaven forbid," cried. the Emperor, as they left
the deck to join those within, who had grown tired, listening
to the Empress and Senor Velasquez, and had long since sought
the enjoyment of the salon.
-    -    -    -   -    -         .    .    .   .
The Thgmis had left the Nvara, behind, and was. pressing
onward go reach the port, and prepare the inhabitants for the
arrival of their ruler.
As they neared the dreat Southern Gulf, a change began to
be felt in the temperature of the atmosphere. The sky grew
more intense in its azure hue, and at night the stars shone
with increased brilliancy; the constellations were new  and
strange to those who came from  northern latitudes; and in
the waves, that had changed' their blue to green, could be seen
the drifting sea-weed, while the soft breeze wafted the faint
perfume of tropical flowers.
Anxiously and, eagerly did the sea-wearyp passengers watch
for surer indications, that their voyage was well-nigh over,
and at last came the little 1 d - birds, as harbingers of goodve
Noah's dove bearing the olive-branch could not have been
hailed with greater delight by the patriarch's family than were
these little visitors from shore, by those who watched them
from the deck of the .Novara.
At last, early in the morning of the 28th of May, from the
look-out, above, there came the thrilling cry:
"Land, ho !"
Soon the quarter-deck was filled with the personages of the
Court, each looking into the hazy distance, to catch the first
glimpse of the Eldorado to which they were speeding.-
Far away over the western water, rimming the broad expanse,
and restig as a cloud against the bosom of the blue sky, rose
the peak of Qrizaba, which with its eternal crown of snow, is
indleed the "!Citlal Tepetl -the Mountain of' the star " - the
frst beacon of hope that greets the seaman's eye.

R0GI02 JEWELS             17

175


CROWN JEWELW                          E

The gentle wind, "la brisa," lent her aid to the Novara, and
she went onward with giant strides. Gradually a long sandy
line of beach is seen; elevated spires and land-marks, that
belong to Vera Cruz, next grow visible ; aid then, in grim
majesty, the old fort, San Juan D'Uloa, frowns over the sea.
How   many warlike memories thrilled the Emperor Maxi-
milian's heart, as this mighty bulwark, with its ribbed sides of
gray stone and its moss-covered battlements, loomed up before
him in gloomy grandeur. The mounted guns, pointing threat-
eningly' over the waters, seemed to, tell of the terrible time
when but a handful of Spanish heroes held i for three years,
against "God and men," as their historian chronicles.
And now, as the Novara comes in sight, and the Themi8 and
the French vessels in port go out to meet her, the roar of can-
non is heard, and loud shouts from the dense crowd assembled
on the beach, to welcome the new sovereign. Amid the cries
of "Vive l'Empereur ! Vive l'Tmperatrice ! "in French, Span-
ish and Mexican accent, the Novara, with its show of beauty
and state on deck,, and the flag of Mexico flying at its mast-
head, gallantly rounded to, and neared the quay.
A faint, strangely, nervous feeling had tal en possession of
Carlotta's heart at. the first cry of land; bkut as they came
bearer and nearer, and Maximilian took Ier by the hand
and led her to the deck, where the people might see her,
and her ladies of honor stood about her, she knew that her-
dream was at last a reality; knew that she was now an Em-
press; knew that she must say adieu to the careless, unre-
strained Princess-life, and bear herself with the dignity and.
loftiness of one, who stood beside the chief of ta nation.
Now the vessel has weighed anchor. Dignitaries and offi-
cials press through the crowd, and are soon upon the deck,
offering their words of welcome.
Gen. Almonte, in behalf of the people of Mexico, presents to
the sovereigns their Plessing, and their future promises.
And now the party are conducted to the splendid - coaches
which wait to convey them to the rooms fitted up for them,
during their stay in Vera Cruz ; and amid the vivas of the
people, they are rolled through the street, that -is ornamented
and decorated at every turn with triumphal arches. Never had
the 'old city seen such a gala time ; never had the hearts of all
its citizens gone up in such universal shout of gladness. But
alas ! in this joyous hour, when all is enthusiam, and- raptur-
ous delight, there is no voice to whisper to the young hero, so

full of faith and hope, as in the olden time to the -Spanish
Cortez,-
" Trust not their fair words: their courtesies, their gifts,
their professions, are hollow; their friendships are false."

CHAPTER XIX.

o one who visits for the first time "la tierra caliente,"
and knows naught of the hills and valleys of the
Paradise back from  the sea-coast, nothing -can ex-
ceed the aspect of loneliness and desolation that hangs
around the city of Vera Cruz and its environs. Built upon the
same plan with the other Mexican cities, a Grand Plaza,:or
open square, in the centre; a cathedral on one side, and a
hotel on the other ; the buildings and streets running at right
angles in every direction; now andthen an old stone palace
through the gates of whose court-yard is seen a ruined- foun-
tain--the place presents .a dreary, deserted appearance, that
cannot fail to imbue the beholder with a like impress of sad-
ness. About the outskirts. of the city are scattered innuner-
able adobe huts, the lowly homes of the half-bred Mexicans,
who, living in squalid poverty, and being of daring, desperate
disposition, exist like beasts of prey.
Now and then, crossing the Plaza, or passing through the
different streets, are seen men attired in the Mexican costume
with slashed~ pants, and the 'sarape, or Mexican blankethang
 mg about their shoulders; and dark, swarthy-looking women
wearig, after their peculiar fashion, the rebosos, or bright-colored
scarf; twined with an easy grace and becoming effect over the
head, and falling loosely behind.
This is what the .traveller sees, if he ventures to -look out
from his window for a daylight view. Soon the city is vocal
with the shrill cries of the morning venders:
"Carbon, senor 1"  "  ecinca buena / good salt beef, senior ! "
"Caremelos ! Cheese and honey ! Tortillas!"
And now things grow more lively. - Ladies in black gowns
and mantillas, are seen hurrying on to mass; 'while bodies of
soldiery, in -,French uniform, at intervals dash through thestet

176

GROWN


GR0Wv W EW.za  179

178             CROWN JEWELS.

1-1

making a clashing of swords, and a clatter if horses' hoofs
striking against the stony paving.
Very strange, and withal somewhat gloomy, appeared the
prospect, in spite of its being a gala day, to te Empress Car-
lotta, as she looked through the latticed windo into the wide
streets, the morning after her arrival; and though gayly dressed
crowds, as it grewlater, began to gather, the thought would
present itself, that "surely over this city the prophet Jeremiah
had sounded the denunciation of woe!"  Soo  her attention
was called within, to aid the Emperor in receiving and ac-
knowledging the welcome of the citizens who came in great
numbers to greet them..
The Emperor and Empress were both anxious to push for-
ward to their capital; and before mid-day they were en route
in coaches for Cordova. As the carriages that bore the royal
party rolled through the streets, accompanied by an escort of
French soldiery, balconies and windows were filled with eager
people, watching to catch a last glimpse of their new Emperor
and Empress; and, amid the shouts, and, waing flags and
handkerchiefs, Maximilian and Carlotta bade adieu to Vera
Cruz.
The.way led them on, out of Purgatory into Paradise. Not
easy it was at first - the rough, jolting roads, npw winding up,
and again suddenly downward, as if mules, carriage, and all
were going over the side of some precipice.
The Emperor, Empress, Gen. Almonte, and Senor Velas-
quez occupied the carriage in front ; next came Count Isolani,
Countess Zichy, and the Countess Kollonitz; while in a third
and fourth carriage were the Count de Bombells. and the other
gentlemen of the Court.
"Well," said the Countess Kollonitz, gayly, "this certainly
is the pursuit of ple ure under difficulties ; but it's a long way
that has no turnip, and I guess we shall be repaid after a
while !'.-
" Ah, yes, Countess; you will tell them, when you go back to
Germany, that you found Ponce de Leon's ' Fountain of Youth,'
in the beautiful Paradise that we shall presently enter ! "
"Indeed, Count Zichy, I am afraid to carry back such a
story with me; it would worle trouble for the Emperor, for
there would be forthwith such a tide of emigration - old men'
aid women, that Mexico could hardly hold them!".
" You are not surely going to leave us, Countess ?" asked
Count Isolani; " what Will our 0ourt be without you?"

9 Yes; I shall go back perhaps in a couple of months. As for
getting on without me, I shall miss our circle, I am afraid, more
than they will me! I shall leave my place to some beautiful
Mexican girl, that will soon teach you all to forget me. Her
Majesty, you know, is to have her ladies all Mexicans, except
Countess Zichy-here, to whom, with you, good friends, after I
am gone, I do bequeath my memory, recommending myself to
mercy!-"
" Which you do not in the least deserve, since you are guilty
of wilful desertion," replied Count Isolani.
Just now they had reached the brow of a hill; and the carri-
ages were greeted with shouts and cries from a crowd of Indians,
who had come from their homes in the country, to see the
Emperor as he passed. There were women in parti-colored
petticoats, long straight hair plaited down behind, with their
infants in slings on their backs; and the men, with dark, ex-
pressive. faces looking out from beneath the wide-brimmed
sombrero. As they pressed up closely, and with gladness and
curiosity regarded the white faces of the Europeans within,
their black piercing eyes seemed to dance with delight. As the
carriages passed on, they gave vent to their joy in loud shouts
and songs. Looking away down into a continuation of vale-like
glens, the country was dotted with the little huts, which were
their homes, and to which they now were seen returning,
having met an era in their uneventful lives.
While the Empress, Seuor Velasquez, and General Almonte,
who had at Vera Cruz been appointed by his Majesty Grand
Marshal of the Court - while they descanted on the increasing
beauty of the country, the Emperor Maximilian's mind was
filled with far weightier thoughts. To him, every spot of ground
over which they passed, every tree, hill, and valley, were elo-
quent with the great. events of centuries past. Imagination
carried him back to the time when the Spaniards,-- whom. he
felt to be his countrymen -pursued their way through this,
country, under the guidance of a daring leader. I But Maximil-
iap was unlike Cortez. While his heart thrilled at the beauties
which now, at every foot of their way, greeted him, there was
no thought of fear mingled with his delight, for in his heart
there was no dream of conquest: all was love and friendship
for the groups who, at every turn of the road, had een waiting
for long hours to swear allegiance to him. Ue ad come to
this land of eternal spring, at the call of these people, and did
they not now urge him on to the capital, biddig him ' Go4


180                 CROWN JEWEL&amp;.
speed" in the work of their regeneration ?  1 e did not dis-
trust these enthusiastic welcomings, that made his way a "Via
Sacra." ,The natural garlands intertwined in the branches of
the trees in the woody country through which their road lay ;
the variety of blossoms, flinging their beautiful purple and
red over them as they passed; the delicious ardma of a thous-
and tropical flowers and fruits, filling the air with fragrance
seemed to his heart the welcoming which Nature herself gave
to him.
"Heaven from all creatures hides the book of fate,
All but the page prescribed our present state !"
How truly wise-! For could we but lift the veil that, spark-
ling and glittering with a thousand diamond hopes, shuts off
the future, and tempts us onward by the halo o~ glory thrown
around our path, how often would we sink into despair,
horror stricken, as we saw the result of actions and events, that
we began with purest motive, actuated by the best intent of
doing good. As it is, in the waving to and fro of this myste-
tious curtain occasionally we catch a glimpse of our rOle upon
the scroll of destiny, and we go down upon  our knees, appalled
at the record of coming trials, of which even one glance "makes
each separate hair stand on end." Where is the metaphysician
whose practical experience or personal observation will sus-
tain the doctrine of final reward and punish ent given on
earth? -The cries of the humblest one of God's suffering, toil-
ing, enduring children will shake their temple of reasoning, till'
it totters on its weak cornerstone of logical sophistry and
studied argument.     ..k
But we stand in the presence of royalty! he jessamine-
scented breeze that floats over the valleys, whispers naught of
evil to the Emperor, and why does our voice of boding still
follow him?
Maximilian's memory was busy with the pa t; with those
exploits of the Spanish band in the sixteenth entury, which,
read to-day, seem the wildest dreams of ro ance; and he
thought, as they passed along, of the immortal message that
Cortez sent to his royal monarch: "At ever step we take,
Truth, Religion, and Civilization advance."      .-     .
During the-en~tire afternoon the party seemed4 toeexperience
1o{ fatigue. Loaded with presents' of oranges and fruits at
every- village they' passed, the novelty of their position filled

CRO Y JEWELS.               81

each heart; and the ladies gave vent to their admiration of all
around them, the beauty-of the scenery, etc., in bursts of en-
th siastic admiration.
The evening shades found the party still -some iniles from
the city of Cordova, but, as that was their place of destination,
they resolved to press forward, and reach it during the night ;
and though it was well spent, before the guard announced the
city in the distance, it did not prevent the deputation of the'
officials, and a torch-light procession, from coming out to meet
and conduct them into the city, where the inhabitants had
prepared a magnificent illumination, in honor of their com-
ing.
But why should the reader be wearied by a detail of the
banquets and receptions, the Te .Deum and offices of wor-
shipful thasgiving that filled up the few days of their stay
in Cordova; or, of the continued stream, of people, banners,
flowers, and music that greeted them all along the road to
Orizaba. Just before their entrance into the last city, in
the midst of the immense crowd gathered about the carriage,
the Indians, carried away by enthusiasm and joy, began, almost
before it was known, to unfasten the mules from the carriage,
in which their Majesties rode, and exclaiming, in their rude
dialect,
"We -your Majesty, your poor Indian children, that love
you more dearly than you can know, - we, will draw you, our
Emperor into our city;" and taking hold of the straps and
irons, began to make good their words.  ,-
"No, no ! " exclaimed the Emperor quickly, as he alighted
from the carriage, and stood before them. " You are my dear
children, and I cannot receive such homage as this. It is
pleasant to meet you here, and receive this proof of your love
for me, -a love which shall be repaid by the anxious care
which I shall take to protect your interests, and to increase
your good."     .
While he spoke, the mules were placed back, and driving
through the crowd, that divided for them to Pass, they were
soon in the beautiful city of Orizaba. Here, it was but a repe-
tition of their stay in Cordova. Presents from high and low,
of fruits and flowers and palm-leaves; banquets, and a mag-
nificent ball at the house of the French consul, made their stay
a season of festivity indeed. And these cordialities were not
unreturned. There were 'donations made by the Empress to the
hospitals, which the Emperor and herself visited and inspected

i --


182            CRQo W TK  JJ$WLS.O

in person For the poor they seemed to have especial thought;
and not seldom were heard their loving words for the "good
Empress and the dear Emperor." All were delighted with their
new sovereigns. There was nothing distant and cold about
them; and the people began to conclude that an Emperor was
-almost as democratic a ruler as a President.
At last they left Orizaba, and were en route for Puebla. As
the city faded behind them, and they reached the brow of a
hill beyond, and looked behind and around  hem, it was a
lovely view that presented itself for their admiration. Far in
the distance, were broad-spreading fields ofverna green; groves,
white with blossoms, echoing with the matin songs of warbling
birds; and crowning every ascent or rising height, were stately
haciendas or moss-becovered convents, old and gray, while far
behind nestled the little city they had left.
As the carriages stopped for an instant, and they took in the
lovely morning picture, "a breathing landscape," Carlotta and
Maximilian exclaimed involuntarily, as if the same thought
filled the mind of each :. "What a beautiful country we
have !"
But soon the aspect of the country begins to change : as
they move onward, the solid European herbage succeeds the
delicate tropical beauties, and they find themselves entering
a barren, rocky, desolate region, through which they must pass,
before reaching again the delightful valley.
For leagues, as far as the eye can reach, nature wears a
bleak, hopeless expression, as if mourning the loss of the clear
streams and gorgeous flowers. The distant mountains, with
their sides of Tartarean hue, barely support the cactus growth,
that clings to them for sustenance.
Now and then, in this " Evil Land," as. the .inhabitants call
it, is seen a ruined hut or an humble shrine, whose cross, point-
ing upward, seems striving to tell the traveller that "all deso-
lation is not despair ; heavenly aid is near."
Before one of these rudely constructed altars the royal party
stopped, and gathered themselves to offer their devotions.
It was a wild, picturesque scene, with a tinge of sublimity in
it. They stood there with uncovered heads, in the presence of
the "Maker of Heaven and Earth," away from the world its
pomp and circumstance ; no burning tapers, no deep-sounding
organ, no well-trained choir to chant the respo ses.; only the
blue sky of God's temple above them, only the  weeping wind,
the breath of God, about them ; and naught but the holy flane

of heavenly love burning within their hearts, and. the solemn
chanting of their own souls in spirit worship, as they rememn
bered "The Lord is in his holy temple ; let all the earth stand
in awe before Him!"
The shrine, too, was left behind, and with the distant peak
of Orizaba mount, guiding them as a pillar of cloud, the dis-
tance to Puebla grows hourly shorter.
The intervening stations, Perote, Nossaluca, and Amozoque,
some in turn; and at each one, the hearts of the inhabitants
must be gratified by being permitted to offer their attentions.
A Mexican breakfast had been prepared at Nossaluca; --fri..
joles,  tortillas,=- chili,* and the famous Maguey drink
pulque, which no true Mexican ever refuses.
And now, though miles away, begins the entranceto Puebla.
a city of many thousand inhabitants, and of much wealth.
The reception prepared was in keeping with the dignity of
the place. An escort of carriages, horseirien, and footmen,
numbering in all many thousand, with banners and flags, music
and flowers, conduct them, through triumphal arches, which
have been raised across the streets, to the magnificently deco-
rated palace, where they are to be entertained.
As it was near the Empress's birthday, the 7th of June, and
a great festival and ball had been planned for its celebration, it
was decided to remain over a few days in Puebla.
The ceremony of delivering the keys of the city to his Maj-
esty, which had been gone through with at every place at
which they stopped, was followed by the chant at the cathedral,
where the people, led by the Bishop, gave thanks to God for
the blessing he had sent to Mexico.
On the evening of the 7th of June was the grand birthright
ball. Every street was illuminated; the triumphal arches still
stood, and were freshly wreathed. The public hall,, where
the reception was to be held, there was one blaze: of light ; and
the stairway by which the Empress was to ascend was a very
path of flowers.
A grand and courtly gathering it was. Jewels and magnif-
cent brocades adorned the seuoras who leant upon the arms
of their dignified lords; while their bright-eyed daughters, -
the handsome senoritas, in their hearts thanked the beautiful
Empress for this gala occasion.
In all these demonstrations, Maximilian and Carlotta read

* Brown beans; species of fried cao; redapeppers.

MOWN JEWT4&amp;           $$


184             CROWN JEWELS.

one welcome truth, that their presence gave pleasure to the in-
habitants of Mexico; that the people were glad that they had
come; and had faith and confidence in them.
The pleasures of Puebla must be given over, however reluc-
tantly, for the Emperor is needed at the capital, and he himself
is impatient to begin the work he knows is before him. .
The road leading from Puebla to the capital ascends, with a
barely perceptible slope, for a distance of forty miles, to a
beautiful table-land, from which, as far as the eye can reach,
stretch out interminable fields of wheat and maize. Here and
there a white hacienda is seen, half hidden ii. the deep foliage
that surrounds it ; while, piled like cumulus clouds in the
distance, are the two colossal guardians of the valley, Popocat-
epetl, "the hill that smokes," and Iztac-cihuatl, "the white
lady," the two belonging to the same range, put separated by
a deep gap, that appears as a rift dividing the clouds. These
giant sentinels lift up their hooded heads, covered with eternal
snow, that gleams in the sunlight, while a thick, woody growth
winds as a black belt about their base.
The royal party passed over this table-land, enraptured with
the beautiful views of Mexican scenery, that like the changes
of a kaleidoscope, presented each moment a new feature, and
soon came to the wild, picturesque region, kn. wn as the Black
Forest. The road led them first'through dar some pines; now
up a rocky height, along a narrow defile, on the edge of a pre-
cipitous descent; terrors that were sufficient of themselves to
frighten the timid heart, even without the knowledge that it
was the great robber haunt of the country. Notwithstanding
the strong guard of soldiers that accompanied he carriages, and
without which even the public diligence never ventures, it was
with a breath of relief that the ladies saw this forest in their
rear, and found themselves approaching the country formerly
covered by the waters of the lagunes, tha -surrounded the
ancient city, and that, long since drained oW, have left a flat,'
arid plain. .
The destination,where they are next to stop, is the village of
Guadalupe; where, at the celebrated temple o the Virgin, pre-
parations have been made by the people for the celebration of
the Grand Mass and Te Deum in honor of their sovereigns.
From the capital, which was but a few leagues distant, a depu-
tation of citizens had come out to meet them  and, long before
the royal carriage approached the little vill ge, the sound of
music was heard, and there was seen, winding along the plain,

an imposing procession. Troops - of soldiers, glittering in
gold-embroidered uniforms; horsemen dashing here and there,
on fiery steeds, with Mexican saddles and silver stirrups, and
the high boots embroidered or stamped in gold ;. carriages
ornamented without, and within, filled with ladies in-their gay-
est attire. Banners and pennons floated everywhere ;- and the,
shouts of the multitude as the carriage that bore the Emperor
and Empress approached, and the soldiers filed off and ranged
themselves on either side, almost drowned the music of the fife-
and drum. Their majesties were conducted to the Church of
Guadalupe, dedicated to the Virgin, that protects the place ;
and there, the Emperor answered the addresses delivered by the
deputations, who in the name of the people bade them wel-
come.
Magnificent' preparations had been made for the entertain-
ment of the sovereigns for the night; and it was not until the
following day, June 12th, that the grand entrance into the
capital was made. Everything there was ready. Triumphal
arches, garlands, and festoons of flowers decked the houses; the
streets were alive with equipages and horsemen, all vying
with each other in their gorgeous adornings; and, falling in with
the procession from Guadalupe, they increased the length and.
splendor of the train, that, amid music and'cheers, and waving
banners, made its way to the old Cathedral in the Grand Plaza;
where, under a richly ornamented canopy, stood the Reverend
Archbishop, waiting to greet them, and conduct them within
the holy sanctuary. There was .scarcely a voice in that vast
assemblage that crowded the Cathedral, that did not join in the
Te Diurn, and the words of thanksgiving. There was no room
for doubt in the Emperor's mind; everywhere his gaze fell
upon some testimonial of love from his people. In the Cathe-
dral, with its grand illuminations and decorations, were hung
the ensigns of all the friendly powers, - France, Austria, and
Belgium. As they turned to go out, above each door the
Emperor saw his own portrait ; himself just as he stood now,
in the uniform of a Mexican general, bearing upon his breast
the insignia of the Order of Guadalupe.
And now, beneath a magnificent canopy, and over the carpet-
ing that has been spread across the Plaza, the Emperor and
Empress and their train are conducted to the Imperial palace,
at the entrance of which stands Marshal Bazaine, the French
commander, surrounded by different officers, who wait to re-
ceive them, and bid them welcome to their home.

CRO yPN' JEWELS,           186


186

CROWN JiWL.

It was a strange, weird scene that the ,texican sun said
"Good-night" to, on that June evening. Tl4e day had hardly
gone out, when the grand illumination and display of fire-
works began, and it was not until long past the midnight hour,
that the quiet moon was allowed to assume hpr sway.
It was with a sigh of intense relief that the young Empress
found herself at last in her private room, wita her ladies, away
from the crowd, that had thronged the palace since their arrival;
and a cry of thankfulness escaped her lips, as she murmured
her last midnight prayer, and begged that '"He who had pre-
served them on sea and land,,-and had guicied them thus far,
would still care for, and protect them in their new home."
The convent bells tolled the hour of three ;in the .morning.
The lights of the illumination had burned low, and had at last
gone out in the windows, and the streets of the capital were
wrapped in silence and darkness. Only now and then-a delin-
quent soldier lounged out of'a caf6, and ma e his way as best
he could through the quiet streets, towards his encampment.
The figade of the grand Cathedral looked solemnly down
upon the deserted Plaza; while the long gray front of the
palace, the moonbeams silvering 'the towers that mounted
either end, stretched out upon the eastern side.
There, too, all was silent. Wearied with the fatigue of the
journey and the excitement of the past week, all were glad to
claim the rest, that nature sends in sleep-all, save one, whose
soul was awkeful, and from whom repose seemed to flee. ' In
the private cabinet, adjoining his apartments, sat the young
Emperor of Mexico; and within his brain there were spirits at
work, busy thoughts, going backward and forward, that forbade
him to call up the power, that "knits up the ravelled sleeve of
eare."
This was his first night in his capital; and he saw now his,-
future home. Everything was strange about him, and still he
was at home. He looked up at the cross-timbers above, pol-
ished and gilded after Mexican fashion ;. the. floor was inlaid
with oak, and his eye rested at last upon the portraits hanging
on the dark walls. There were the well-known faces of Fer-
dinand and Isabella; and just opposite, was the Mexican-
Montezuma, wearing the sad, sorrowful expression that never
left his countenance, after he -found that he must yield his
kingdom to the Spanish Cortez.
The Emperor sat by the window, and looked out from time
to time into the court-yard below, where a fountain threw out

CROWN JTEWELS

187

its delicate spray, moistening the roots of a hugempianito tree
growing near.
Maximilian felt to-night the life, with its reality and its ear-
nestness, crowding upon him too fast to. be put aside. The
last month had done for him the work of years; had changed
him from a free, untrammelled prince, to an anxious, thinking
monarch.
He turned his eye within, and it rested again upon the face
of the old Emperor Montezuma. His mind ran back to the
time when it was related of him, "that in an agony of despair
at the Spaniards' approach, he shut himself up alone, and re-
fused all consolation."  Montezuma, in all his glory, passed
away, and so did his Spanish conquerors. One after another,
the names of the Mexican rulers that had occupied this palace,
now his home, built upon the site of the palace where, Cortez
was received, came up, and one after another came to their
untimely deaths. It was not a pleasant retrospection, and the
Emperor sighed as he bade it pass. -The clock of the convent
bell tolled the half-hour ; and still Maximilian sat there, his
head leaning against the casement, and his eye fixed upon the
Indian portrait. The lamp on the table within threw an in-
distinct, weird light over the apartment. Gradually, as Maxi-
milian gazed into the gloom of the far -corners of the apart-
ment, they seemed to recede, and the dark walls were overhung
with a rich tapestry, embroidered with gorgeous feather-work;
the whole room was enveloped with a cloud of incense, rising
from unseen censers, sending forth a soft, intoxicating odor.
Maximilian gazed at the magic scene, breathless; when, sud-
denly, before him he saw the figure of the Indian Emperor,
his dark eyes wearing the same sorrowful expression, bent full
upon him. A crimson tunic, richly bordered with feather-
work; sandals embroidered with gold, and fastened with glit-
tering clasps ; a low cap upon his head, with a coronal of
flashing jewels in front, and the long green plume drooping
behind ; a short, square cloak embroidered with gold, hanging
over the right shoulder, completed his costume.
Raising the sceptre, mounted with a Mexican eagle, he pointed
towards the tapestry, and Maximilian heard his own name
pronounced:
"Maximilian, Prince of Austria! Dost thou come to the
kingdom of Montezuma, to meet the curse that is upon it?
Young Emperor, Montezuma fell before Cortez, and the Span-
iards must likewise fall before Montezuma's people ! The

n

'If I


CROWN JEWELS

CROWN JEWELS.

Spaniard taught them deception; taught them to come with fair
promises of friendship, and black hearts, full of treachery
within! -Montezuma's spirit pities thee ! Remember hum; and
put not thy faith in promises ! "
The Emperor was spell-bound. The incense was dissolving
into vapor, the embroidered tapestry was gone, and where the
spirit of the Indian Emperor stood, there was only, a .soft,
indistinct halo. Maximilian started forward; the vision was
gone, and he was awake ! The lamp had gone out. Faint
streaks of light were creeping across the horizon, and the misty
rays of the gray dawn were stealing in beside him.
With a smile, he looked up at the Indian face that had
calledjup.the dream of ancient days, but as he went out of the
little cabinet to the inner chamber, he whispered again to his
heart, " Montezuma's spirit pities thee ! Remember him; put
not thy faith in promises !"

CHAPTER XX.

LETTER from the capital, Inez ?" said Donna
Anita, looking up from her book, as her niece entered
her apartment, her face beaming with pleasure, while
she held, in her hand a couple of letters.
Yes, Pietro has just met the carrier going in to the city;
he gave him a package for us, containing these ! One is for
mine humble self; the other for you, and I am sure comes
from Don Ruy. Will you hear Giulian's first?   He gives a
grand account of our national affairs ; Mexico City is in an
uproar of enthusiasm and joy over the arrival of the Emperor
and Empress, and there has been a grand reception at the
palace.'
"If you please," said Anita,;interrupting Inez's spirited de-
tail, "I will take Giulian's own account, giving you permis-
sion, of course, to omit all personal messages to yourself."
"How kind you are, dear Anita," laughed Inez, as she seated
herself near her aunt, ." to request me so politely to carry out
my own intentions ! But here we go, to be presented without

further ceremony, to their august Majesties.
us the details in regular diary -style.

Giulian gives

"'The Emperor and Empress, with their Court, have at
last arrived. It is useless to attempt a description of the en-
thusiastic reception accorded to them  by the citizens of the
capital; their way-from Vera Cruz here, was but a continuation
of ovations and banquets. The grand procession of carriages,
containing noble Dons, seioras, and senoritas; the long array
of French and Mexican troops, with their full-dress uniforms,
that went out to Guadalupe to meet their Majesties and escort
them into the capital; the leperos, who for the nonce had thrown
aside their rags, and in holiday attire, crowded the streets,-
everything and every one was alive, heart, soul, and body jin-
ing in the demonstrations. Imagine, if.you can, in the day, the
gorgeous uniforms and nodding plumes of the soldiers, the gay
equipages and glittering jewels of the seioras, the bright eyes of
the seioritas peering through the flower-bedecked windows of the
private dwellings at the throng that, without, rent the air with
their shouts and vivas, as the royal procession passed on to
the Cathedral.' And the scene in the Cathedral itself beggars
description. The magnificent gothic pillars that support the
nave were entwined with flags and garlands; the high altar at
the extremity decorated with ornaments of gold and silver, and
richly chased vases filled with flowers,; while the solid silver
railing that enclosed the chancel,\gleamed with light, beneath
the burning incense,
"' As the Archbishop entered the Cathedral, and approached
the altar where stood the other members of the clergy, and the
Emperor and Empress followed, a glorious anthem, loud and
exultant, was chanted by the choir above; and when the strains
of the Te .Deurn began, the whole building shook with the im-
mensity of sound that filled it.
"'Would that you could have seen them! The Emperor in
his magnificent Mexican uniform- the'stars and crosses of
various orders glittering upon his breast; h proud, manly form,
above the medium height; an open, handsome face, a deter-
mined eye, and a proud air of conscious nobility, that hung
about him even while he graciously returned the salutations as
he passed out of the Cathedral, -all, seemed to elevate the man
almost above the position, and carried the conviction that he
had condescended, even in accepting a crown.
"' But you are waiting impatiently to hear of the Empress

188

189


I]
Ui

CRO WN JEWELS

the beautiful, accoinplislhed Empress! What words have I at
my command, with which to. describe the perfection of grace
and beauty?  Enough to say that she is the wife for our Em-
peror Maximilian! One cannot look into her face, youthful
and fresh as it is, without reading an energy and determination,
of spirit, that are the necessary attributes of a fine character;
and yet, over the whole countenance, in the personal- deport-
ment, there is a soft expression of sweetness that wins one to
admiration and love. After the ceremonies were ended in the
Cathedral, as she passed out, leaning upon the arm of the Em-
peror, she called.forth the vivas from the multitude waiting,
as she bowed and smiled graciously at the crowd of lperos
that had pressed up to see her. All this has-been two weeks
ago, and even yet, the illuminations and festivities are nightly
kept up. Ah! Inez, the people and every one feel-- and,
therefore, cannot cease rejoicing - that Mexico has at last a
ruler worthy to reign over her !
' Last night there was a grand reception at the National
Palace. The Emperor has been holding official meetings every
day, and each afternoon there is a review of troops ; but this
reception was a gathering of the nobility, of the citizens, and
the officers of the army stationed about the capital. Every-
thing was conducted with European magnificence. The Em-
press Carlotta, as she is called, was attended by the maids of
honor, who have accompanied her from Europe ; while the, Em-
peror at her side was surrounded by the members of his staff
and household. They are so, democratic in their manners, so
full of gracious affability, that one forgets in meeting and con-
versing with them that they are to be addressed by that formal
title, "Your Majesty."   -
I have met and am fast becoming a firm friend to a young
nobleman, Count Victor Isolani, who has been with the Em-
peror in the navy of Austria since boyhood, and has now come
over with him to Mexico. He is from the Tyrol; and is a per-
fect type of a gentleman and scholar. We meet every afternoon
when we go down to the Alameda, which you know is our
park, filled with long avenues of trees, and musical with the
plash of fountains. Being the fashionable resort, it is each
evening filled with equipages and gay parties, riding or walk-
ing, who come out to hear the band belonging to a French
regiment play.
'The military has not yet undergone a reorganization, but
I shall doubtless obtain a position-in a regiment known as the

" Empress's Guards," the command of which is to be given to
Col. Miguel Lopez, an officer (Mexican) whom the Emperor
seems to esteem most highly.
"' I close my journal letter, with the earnest petition that
Anita and yourself shall come to the capital. I know it would
be best, and certainly pleasanter, for me. Don Ruy sends his
letter to Anita with this. And now to you, querid4mid, I send
the best love of my heart.' "
" But I am treading upon forbidden groundaAnita," said
Inez stopping and smiling while she closed the letter. "'Now
isn't it a new era, an array of pomp and splendor for poor,
broken-hearted Mexico ? How I should have enjoyed seeing it;
wouldn't you, Anita ? But we have forgotten your letter fro
Don Ruy!" and she threw it to her aunt, as she rose to leav .
"Stay, Inez I Read this, too, aloud," said Afiita, breaking
the seal with its elaborate crest.
" Short, certainly," said Inez, as she began its reading; "but
Don Ruy never deals in superfluities ! He always speaks to
the point."
"' ANITA : - I write simply to express to you -the unabated
interest I feel in the welfare of my brother's family ; and to
urge upon you, for-your greater comfort and safety, the neces-
sity of a residence in the capital, or within the limits of ,some
city protected by a garrison-at least during the next year, or
until our new government, which every one 'thinks will prosper
under the rule of the gracious young Emperor, is 'firmly es-
tablished. Let me insist that Inez and yourself come at once
to my home, and consider it your own as long as you find it
agreeable. Though I am only a crusty old man myself, yet
Giulian can, I think, make it pleasant for Inez ; and we all
together may drive away some of the loneliness and gloom from
the old house. I shall expect you in the early autumn. Don't
delay later than October; you can leave Pietro in charge where
you are, with all safety.
"('Runr GonzA1&amp;~s. "
'Ah,. Anita, we shall go now, shan't we? " cried Inez, as
she closed the letter. " How like Don luy, to be so kind and
considerate !"
" Yes, Inez," said Donna Afiita, with a half-suppressed sigh,
" we shall go!1 But I have a ie~vous dread of changing our

0CROWJ EWELS-

1111

1
:,
9

I

190 -

isi.

{
i


192            CRO WN JEWELS.

CR0 WN JEWELS.

mode of life, and facing the excitement that I know we shall
meet in the capital. I think we should be just as safe here,
with General Meija so near, as in the capital."
"Ah, Aiita! you have forgotten the days of your own
youth ! How often have I heard my father tell of the Spanish
cavaliers, who swore allegiance to the beautiful Senorita Anita,
the belle of Madrid ! And I do believe, Afnita, that your
heart has never left Spain! , I expect some cross old Spanish
nobleman is laying the sins of his bachelor life at your
door !"
" No, no ! nothing of that, Inez! My heart, it is true, still'
clings to Spain and our beautiful home near Madrid, and I
have a great longing that you should see it ; but all is doubt-
less much changed now, and we should find my brother, who
was in the prime of life when we left, an old man. You know
it has been twenty years since we came to Mexico, your dear
mother and I",
"And she has been dead how long?"
"Just eighteen years last May. She was more a daughter
than a sister to me; for I was ten years ier senior, and our
mother was taken from us when she was scarcely out of short.
frocks. Well," continued Anita, brushing aside a tear, 4"we
must write to your uncle, and tell him we shall be with him in
October.''
" Dear, Anita'!" said Inez, softly, as. she threw her arms
affectionately about her, and kissed her warmly. "You make
this sacrifice for me ! How shall I ever repay your kindness
and devotion - my own second mother ! "
Inez left the room, and Anita opened her book again. It
was an elegantly bound copy of ancient Moorish ,and Spanish
Ballads," filled with legends of the Cid, - the lamentations and
penitence of Don Rhoderick, and the chivalry of the great old
chieftain, Bernardo del Carpio.
. Anita endeavored in vain to fix her mind upon the page
before her. The words that Inez had so lightly spoken had
awakened deep echoes in her soul, and her heart was softly
pleading for one hour with the past. Yes ! Well did Anita
remember those courtly days at Madrid, when knightly cav-
aliers had acknowledged her charms, and'sung her beauty in
magic strains of love and praise ; and too w11 did she recall'
the coming of the one, at the sound of whos voice her heart
had thrillingly and silently acknowledged its kng. The proud,
manly form of Don Juan Gonzales was again before her,, as she

had seen him first. He had come from over the seas to revisit
the home of his nativity, and he found at Madrid, a charm that
made him linger. But it was not Aiita's glance that held him
bound: the soft blue depths of another's eye placed -a stronger
spell upon him. The struggle in An-ita's heart was not the less
severe in its silent working, that the favored one was her own
sister - that it was the tender, timid Marina that had. capti-
vated his heart ; and it was but a poor return that she was
called the most brilliant woman at the Spanish Court. No one
dreamed of the heart-misery that made the gayeties of life but a
solemn mockery, full of vanity and emptiness.
"It was all past, long ago," thought Auita, as she recalled it
now. Long, long years had rolled since she had woven the
orange wreath, and had imprinted the bridal kiss upon the
brow of the younger sister, and had uttered the death-knell of
her hopes, " my brother," to the one unconscious of her love.
Aye, it was but a memory now - those long-ago hours of sol-
itary anguish, when in her own chamber she had striven and
prayed for the mastery over her heart, for strength. to cast
out a love - a hopeless love, that 'twas a sin to cherish. And
God had given her the victory. Time had shown a, true, holy.
record for Anita.  She -had put all selfishness out of her
nature, and had yielded to the pleadings of her gentle sister, and
had come with her to her new home; and God had given her
here a work to do. She had proven faithful to her dead sister's
trust, and had brought the helpless babe from infancy to wo-
manhood ; and, through all the long years of her life in Mexico,
had never betrayed one chapter of her sad heart-history. Don
Juan Gonzales slept now beside his young wife, and she was
the sole guardian of his child; and she would prove true to her,
as long as life lasted.
Anita passed her hand gently over her brow. Let it all be
forgotten! -These memories were wrapped in .their winding-
sheet, and buried in the past, and -why disentomb them now?
No, no;. cover up again, and forever, their white, ghastly
faces! .
She unclosed again her book. By some strange. chance her
eye rested upon the quaint old ballad, "The Bridal of An-.
dalla."  How often in her youth she 'had sung the sad words
to the accompaniment of the lute, and softly and touchingly
now, chiming well with the- tenderness of her heart to-night,
she read the verses over, droppig, now and then, a tear of
sympathy for sorrow so like what her own had been.

193


CROW JEWELS.               195

194             CRO WN JEWELS.

"Rise'up, rise up, Xarifa ! lay the golden cushion down !!
Rise up, come to the window, and gaze with all the townI!
From gay guitar, and violin, the silver notes are flowIg,
And the lively lute doth speak between the trumpets 1o dly blowing ;
And banners bright, from lattice light, are waving everywhere,
And the tall plume of our cousin's groom floats proudlyjon the air.
Rise up, rise up, Xarifa ! lay the golderl cushion down I
Rise up ! come to the window, and gaze with all the tovn.
"The Zegri lady rose not, nor laid her cushion down ;
Nor came she to the window, to gaze with all the town~
But though her eyes dwelt on her knee, invainher fingers strove,
And though her needle pressed the silk, no flower Xarifa wove.
One bonny rose-bud she hed traced, before the noise drw nigh,
That bonny bud a tear effaced, slow dropping from he eye.
No, no," she sighed; "bid me not rise, nor lay my chon down,
To gaze upon Andalla, with all the gazing town'! "
CHAPTER XXI.
HE Emperor Maximilian, now tha ' he was in his
capital, proclaimed and acknowled ed head of the
Empire by the seemingly unanimous voice of the peo-
ple, was impatient to have done wit festivities and
gayeties that kept him     from   giving his time      nd attention at
once to the duties before him.        Duties!    Th y were manifold
as the stars of heaven; and no man could bett r appreciate and
understand their imperative nature, and the d licate diplomacy
necessary for their satisfactory discharge, than Maximilian.
He knew that, amid" all the shouting and cheering that had
greeted them in Mexico, there were secret e emies, who were
watching closely to discover ",who the man            as " with which
the Republican cause must war. He knew th t while the cities
were wild with admiration and praise of thei new            sovereigns,
that back amid the northern hills there w re men plotting
their destruction.     And yet, prompted with         'laudable desire
to rule over a -united people, Maximilian's fi st proclamation
was to grant a general amnesty, and           pardo    to all political
offenders, and to send to Juarez the olive bra ch of peace, in-
viting, nay, urging not only him, but all the          epublican lead-
ers, to  a   conference with    himself and     his    inisters at the
capital, that they might together freely disc ss the speediest
and surest plan for securing a permanent peace to the country.
But in this, Maximilian had mistaken his man. He did not

understand the obstinate doggedness of the Indian spirit of
Benito Juarez ; and he was, therefore, not altogether prepared
for the contemptuous refusal with which his conciliatory mes-
sage was returned.
Juarez felt, perhaps, that it '.was better to reign in hell
than to serve in heaven;" and though he had been forced to
retire before the French forces, almost to the banks of the
Rio Grande, and there was not a State that he could call his
own ; though his army was. scattered here and there, and was
rapidly becoming disorganized and disbanded, in spite of the
efforts of the Liberal generals to keep their forces together; -yet
he felt that the same Fortune that had first made him a Gov-
ernor in Mexico, had then banished, and again recalled him to
be the chief ruler, would not desert him now forever; and
so he held fast to his title of President, and would not consent
to be " even the second man in Rome."  "And as for the high
carnival the fickle people were holding in the cities of his Re-
public, every breeze that wafted the echoes of it to him, only
fanned the fires of hate, burning in his soul. Let them take care
that he did not make it for them, indeed, the prelude to a season
of Lent!
Nothing daunted by his failure to overcome 'the prejudices
of the Republicans, Maximilian turned his attention with en-
ergy to the affairs of his kingdom. After the selection of his
ministers, and the organization of' his cabinet, there came the
public debt to be considered; the appointment of foreign min-
isters, the adoption of a national flag, and all the innumerable
points that must be settled at the beginning of a new regime.
Perhaps no monarch in the. record of history, - certainly, not
one so young, ever found himself assuming a position as chief
ruler, where so many seemingly impossible difficulties were to
be reconciled. They confronted him with Hydra heads; and it
required no ordinary courage to meet them.
First, there was the insurgent or -Liberal party, which he
had hoped to .win to him by. offers of peace, and a firm, impar-
tial administration. In this, he failed at the outset.
Antagonistic to the Liberals, in favor .of the Empire, or,
rather of themselves, was the Church party, which hoped to
obtain from the, new Emperor the confiscated property that.
they had lost during the past ten years. Maximilian's promise
to Pope Pius, to sustain the Catholic religion, and to, protect
the Church in his kingdom, had been interpreted ~as a virtual
guarantee to restore their gr'operty; but as much. of it had

s
1
f
I
P
I                       3
IiIt
i
II
#
P
f
i
i4
t


1ROW  JHWELS.            197

fallen' into individual hands, the Emperor saw  t once that he
would only sow a fresh elements of strife and discord, to at-
tempt to take it from one for the other ; and s here began a
trouble for the future. Again, there were the  rench claims
staring him in the face, the first instalment of hich would be
urged upon him for payment; and as he found the Mexican
treasury with its revenue, not sufficient to  over national
expenses, something must be done at once to change it, or there
would be an awkward situation there.
And there, too, were the French troops, whi  were at the
command of. Marshal Bazaine, who seemed, at first, anxious
to aid the Emperor inany plan he set on foot; and in the
autumn the Austrian and Belgian troops would arrive. They,
too, were to be controlled by Ministers of tleir respective
countries, with whom the Emperor was to conult in dispos-
ing of them. It was only the native Mexican soldiers that had
been enlisted, over which the Emperor had entire and full com-
mand; and he found it no easy matter to organize and harmo-
nize, under one banner, so many different elements; and to pro-
duce in them such unity of sentiment, that they should feel
equal devotion to the country for which they fought.
But Maximilian, in his large, generous heart, egadf his work
in earnest. He came to Mexico, determined t raise her up,
without sparing himself, and his resolution could not be
shaken. Full of spirit and energy, he trod down the difficulties
before him as "he would the heaving frost-lands of winter."
His first movement outside of the capital was o make a tour
on horseback, with his staff and ministers, through the different
States, in order to become personally known t his subjects,
and to inform himself as to their wants and necessities. He
also endeavored to discover the resources of every portion of
his kingdom, in order that he might begin at once to forward
their development': for he knew that Mexico must trust to
herself; and knew, too, that she had within he own bosom,
treasures sufficient to free herself from 'all outside responsibili-
ties.
Seeing that the enterprise and energy of the  exican people
was not sufficient to carry out his plans, without having infused
into it a working element, and desirous of secu being immigra-
tion, he returned to his capital, and made most liberal offers of
land and protection, to those Who would seek  home in his
Empire.
The beautiful tierra&amp; caliente, lying in luxurious idleness, its

iich harvest wasting for want of laborers! Mexico needed
settlers; bold, enterprising men, who would do their part to
give her railroads and telegraphs; to establish agricultural and
industrial enterprises; factories, banks, and all those national
institutions that build up a nation in greatness, and increase
it in wealth. And, too, the Emperor felt, by employing the
minds of his subje'ets and directing their attention to lucrative
pursuits, and showing them the blessings of a prosperous peace,
they would be less ready to sound the tocsin of war.
Everywhere the Emperor went, he was greeted with enthu-
siasm; and everywhere he left some testimonial of his bounty.
While he was endeavoring to draw the attention of the capital-
ists of the Old World to this new field 'for speculation, and to
induce them to invest in- his Empire; while he was growing
rapidly into increased popularity by his untiring devotion to
his kingdom, the young Empress did not remain idle. Accus-
tomed from her childhood to matters of state, and her own:
judgment being strengthened by self-reliance, a principle which
her royal father had instilled into her, Carlotta was notjwant-
ing in the power to sustain. her duties as an Empress, but was
indeed a help-mate, and co-worker with her husband.
She took first upon herself the task of alleviating the suffer-
ings of, and elevating, the lower classes in the capital, where
she found the larger portion of the inhabitants belonging to the
despised l6pergs, and living by a degrading system of street beg-
gary.
First, she determined there must be labor provided for those
who could earn their living, and they must be taught to work;
but for the aged and infirm she established hospitals, under the
charge of suitable wardens, where their declining years might
be spent, unchilled by the frosts of poverty, want, and dis-
tress.
She also provided for the children, by establishing free
schools, where the poor were always welcome to the teachings;
for Carlotta well knew that education is the handmaiden of
civilization. All of these charitable institutions were under
her especial care and patronage, and the funds necessary for
their support were furnished from her own private purse ; and
as she gave it, the pure offering of her heart, to her people, she
did not withhold from them her presence ; but from time to
time visited, them, and always inspected the reports sent in, of
their condition, herself.
-While conducting all of these enterprises for the good of the

196            CROWN JEWELS


198                 CROWN JEWELS.
lower classes,. Carlotta did not forget her duty s the head of
the Court circle.
She endeavored, at the receptions which wer held weekly
at the palace, to give a high tone, an intellect al and moral
turn to the minds of the guests, and by her ow  example, her
fine musical and artistic talent, sought to inspir in the ladies
of the Court circle, a desire to attain. perfection ' these accom-
plishments. As she desired no germ of talent to remain latent
in the Empire, wherever it was discovered, it was t once favored
with royal patronage.
And so the young Empire began its growth.   ministers were
received and accredited from foreign Courts;- consuls were
established; courts of justice inaugurated: not ' g was neg-
lected that could insure safety for the future. he coming of
the Emperor seemed to have broken the heart f the Juarez
faction, and in a military point the Empire was q et, save now
and then a clash, at the farthest outposts, betwee the garrison
and some marauding band of Liberals.
Though everything seemed to promise fair, yet Maximilian
was restlessly ambitious in his impatient zeal .t increase his
strength and power. He desired to see every   itizen of his.
Empire a Briareus, to work and accomplish good  r the nation.
A gallant ship has put to sea; well built and strong she
seems, and manned with sailors brave and true weighted with
the hopes of a nation, she rides peacefully over. the quiet
waves. God speed her with fair weather and propitious winds !
CHAPTER XXII.
NOVEMBER evening; beautifully clea and starlit,
with that peculiar brilliancy of the he vens that is
seen only in tropical climates.-
It is a fete night at the palace. The  ustrian and
Belgian corps have arrived, and this celebration is in their
honor. The great reception-room, or Iturbide saloon, is fitted
up with unusual adornments and decorations. From the
gilded cross-timbers of the ceiling, hang at intervals the im-
mense candelabras, bearing up their blazing circles of light.-
The faces of the dark portraits on the wall, fron that of the

CROWN JEWELS..               199

noble Washington, to those of Hidalgo and Morelos, seem to
breathe with life, as they watch the coming in of the vast
assembly; the seuoras, senoritas, and their escorts, who are fill-.
assethe length and breadth of the room.
i   Without, on the Grand Plaza, the magnificent Austrian band,
belonging to a regiment but recently arrived, is playing the
national airs of the different countries, Mexico, France, Aus-
triaand 3lgium; while within, all is life and animation. Not
only the gr4nd reception-room, but the saloon, with its couchant.,
lions watching at the entrance ; the audience chamber, with its
walls of crimson damask, bearing in golden embroidery the
Mexican eagle, and the motto, "Equity in justice," - all are
rapidly filling with maidens, flashing with family jewels a cen-
tury old, and French, Austrian, and Mexican officers, to whom
the scene, is not less agreeable than novel.
It was with feverish impatience that Inez Gonzales made her
toilette to-night. The coming of Afuita and herself to the capi-
tal, had been delayed a month later than the time at first pro-
sed; and it was only a week since they reached her uncle's,
Don Ruy Gonzales, who lived in princely style on the Calle
de -
But now Inez had realized her dreams. She was in the
city of Mexico the world to her ; and to-night she was to be
presented to the Empress, the beautiful, accomplished Empress!
What a change from her quiet, uneventful life1.
It was w' h no small degree of triumph that she surveyed
herself, tout ensemble, before the long mirror of the drawing-
room, where she awaited Giulian's coming ; not that she had
more vanity than her sex in general, but then, to-night Aiiita
and herself had exhausted their taste and ingenuity, that she
should make a favorable impression, and a successful debit in
society; and Afiita was not over-partial in her judgment when
she exclaimed, as she lovingly clasped the last jewel on her,
Well Inez, I don't think you could be improved!"
Her dress was perhaps a little antique for one so young ; for
Anita had brought out all of her own and her mother's jewels,
and had selected a set of handsome diamonds for the evening
wear. A splendid crimson brocade swept .in ample folds to
a long train behind; and over the beautifully rounded arms
was a fall of rich black lace, caught at the shoulder with a dia-
mond clasp. An aigrette of the same flashing gem held a crim-
son camelia in the waves of the dark hair. And the face itself!
A broad, full brow; dark, soul-lit eyes; an exquisitely shaped

'1

I.

,i
,' ,


200                 CR0VWw JEWELS.
mouth; a perfect ideal of Spanish beauty!  .heighten the
poetic picture, Auita had begged to fasten in h r hair, the long
Spanish veil embroidered with golden threads..
Anita had gone out, and left her alone in the drawing-room,
and Inez stood there in all the beauty of woman ood, regarding
herself, perhaps, with a little tinge of vanity.
She stood, there to-night, a cultivated, accom lished woman;
yet knowing naught of the world's good or ill, t e world's trust
or the world's treachery. She'was on the thre hold; to-night
the magic boundary would be passed: a -new st r would shine
upon her future ; a new light would be thrown o the scenes of
her life.
There was a step behind her, and a voice hulf whispered,
"Not less an empress of beauty, though uncrowed !"
" Giulian ! " she exclaimed, starting, and turnin to her lover,
who stood regarding her with a smile of admirat on. In a mo-
ment it died into almost a shadow of regret.,
" What is it, Giulian ? " said Inez anxiously, a she noted the
change that swept over his features. " Do I- no please you?
Am I at fault in my dress?"
" Please me, my Queen! No, no, Inez ! I dread-but perhaps
I ought not to tell you - but do you know, that since the time
has come, I half-way dread to take my beautiful flower, with
the dew still upon it, to this gay Court, where there will be
so many that are false and untrue."
" But what have they, Giulian, to do with me. I am going
to see the Emperor and Empress, and care not  thought for
others ! It would be nothing to me if there was no -one there
save ourselves, except Count Isolani, your frien . I want to
know him. I need not mistrust him; need I, Giulian ?  Is he
not good and true'?"
"Yes, Inez," cried Giulian, with a strange twinge of pain in
his heart as he remembered Isolani's handsome face, and courtly
bearing, "he is good and true, and I want him to be your
friend. But, my own," he added, seizing her hand and draw-
ing her nearer, "promise me again to-night,-as you did at
Querataro - promise me that you will never forsal e me for an-
other, that you will love me unto death?"
There was a passionate earnestness in his voice, an intensity
of feeling, that for the, moment almost startled Inez.
"Giulian," said she, reproachfully, " whom have ![ to love but
you? You have my promise sacredly given; will you not trust
me to keep it ?"

CROWN JTEWELS.

201

She looked into his eyes, and saw there the sudden gleam
of light that leaped into their blue depths, and she knew that
he believed her to .be honest and true -and knew before he
spoke that he trusted her forever.
"Inez, God bless you! I shall never again doubt you. Come!
let us go ! I want them to see you at the palace; and I would not
take from you one moment of the pleasure ,and happiness that
I trust is before you."  They left the room, and descending,
entered the carriage that was waiting in the Court-yard below,
and were soon on their way to the "Grand Plaza."
" Ah ! aregal Spanish beauty Navarro has there ! ".exclaimed
a young French officer near the doorway, as Inez entered the
drawing-room of the palace, an half-hour later, leaning on Giu-
lian's arm. "Who is she ? do you know? " continued the speaker
in a whisper, to his companion, a bright-eyed Mexican beauty.
" Something new, n'est-ce pas ?: I have not seen her at Court
before. His sister, I trust ! always liked Navarro,.noble fellow ;
we must be presented ! "
The little maiden did not seem to relish the officer's sudden
admiration of this new star, that seemed to threaten an eclipse
of her own ; and so, with real gravity, she confessed her ignor-
ance of the new-comer's name and rank.
" She may be, however," she added upon second thought, her
face brightening perceptibly, " Segorita Gonzales, from. Quera-
taro, recently arrived at the capital. This is her d&amp;but, I guess;
and she is, you know," with vindictive pleasure, "Captain Na-
varro'sfiancse /"
" Piancse 1Mon .Dieu!" cried the officer, with a comic ex-
pression of despair ; "my heart is broken ! Mademoiselle," with
piteous pleading in his voice, "will you not in charity bind
it up?"
" No, no," cried the girl, laughingly ; 4"I am afraid it might be
a bad job!  You have said I was something of an iconoclast
myself, and might give you further trouble !"
" Alas, then I am indeed undone ! I must leave the capital.
I've had nothing but trouble from these wicked senoritas since
I came. I must go back to Puebla, or to my command at Puces
or I shall, be ruined; so that even one of our Paris jewels will
never be able to restore me to health and spirits !"
" And are there, then, no maidens in Puebla, who will accept
the kind office of 'La Sour Seraphe,' and care for this poor
soldier with his wounded heart?"
"'Mademoiselle ! forbear, 8'il vous plat / You only make me
9*

If

Il


4

202'

CROWN JEWELS.

desperate, by reminding me that I can never reach that region
rof beatification, where these maidenly beguilers and tempters
ire forbidden to come ! "
"Horrible, Count La Croix; you are growing heathenish !
Cry out, 'Peccavi!' 'or I'll have you banished from the capital
before three days have passed !'"
" A compromise," whispered the Count, and his words
brought a conscious blush to the cheek of his companion: "place
yourself under the ban, too, and give us' the same exile, and I
will never seek to be released. A la dispicion da V. /"
In the meantime - Giulian had passed through the grand
saloon, presenting Inez to various friends he met, until, by a
side-door, they entered the audience-chamber, and awaited the
coming of the Emperor and Empress. The room was nearly
filled with the members of the cabinet, the foreign ministers,
the higher municipal officers, and their wives.
'The Austrian band was now within the palace, and had begun
the magnificent air of national liberty, that heralded the royal
coming:
With curious, eager interest Inez watched the Emperor and
Empress, as they entered, and, followed by their train, passed
through the open space left by the guests to the dais in the rear
of the apartment...
The Emperor, tall, handsome, and erect, wore the Imperial
uniform, and his earnest face was lit up by a smile of gratified
pleasure at the repeated whispers of "Vive l'Empereur" that
greeted him as he passed. The Empress Carlotta leaned upon
his arm, and the delicate azure hue of her dress heightened
the beauty of her lovely face; her distinguish bearing, her. ele--
gant toilette, and her winning manner, as she bowed to those on
either side, drew all eyes in admiration to her. On the dais,
with its beautifully embroidered crimson hangings, looped back
with golden tassels, were two chairs of state, to be occupied by
the Emperor and Empress, while about them stood first the
Empress's-maids of honor, and then the members of the diplo-
matic corps.
Near the Emperor was Marslhal Bazaine, and by his side
Col. Lopez, who had recently been honored with the appointment.
of commander of the "Empress's Regiment." There was Count
1 Thun, and near him Count Isolani and Count Khevenhuil-
ber, who, true to his promise, had cast his future with the Em-
peror Maximilian, In the other persons throughout the room
there was a rare .union of beauty wit, and grace. The ladies

CROWN JEWL.                   203
of Mexico are not surpassed in magnificence of dress by those
of any country, and diamonds and pearls are seen to-night in
lavish profusion; for a Mexican lady of any pretension what-
ever, is considered poor indeed if she be without jewels, and
will submit to any privation rather than give up her dia-
monds.
Inez waited with impatience, while General Almonte,pre-
sented various others 'to their Majesties, and her heart bounded
as Giulian led her forward, and she heard her own name pro-
nounced.
"-Senorita Gonzales?" said the Emperor smiling,' "we have
heard of La Senorita often before, through our good officer here,
Captain Navarro."
" And Senorita Gonzales is welcome to our Court," said.
the Empress, extending her hand, while she regarded the girl
with admiration. " Captain Navarro, we must thank you for
giving us such a jewel. You have but just arrived, seno-
rita ?"
" One week ago, your Miajesty; and things are rather new
to me, yet."
" Ah! we will not let you pine for the home at Querataro;
you must remain with us for a long time."
"Ah!" said the Emperor, "I am determined Senorita Gon-
zales shall be guarded against ennui and discontent ; for I am
going to provide her with two trusty guardians; to keep her
secure," glancing at Captain Navarro, and at Count Isolani,
who was a silent but interested liatener. "In one of these
knights you already have confidence; and. now let me present
the other - Count Victor Isolani! Both Captain Navarro
and myself do vouch for him. Will you accept these gentle-
men, sefyorita, as your stanch defenders and guardians?"
" I do accept them, Sire," said Inez blushngly, but catching
the Emperor's playful manner, "but only with your Majestysa
endorsement; for I am afraid, however true nd-devoted they
may be to your Majesty, to me they wil tyrove knights
errant."
"No, no, seforita," said the Empress; "we do only make them
better' officers and soldiers, if 'possible ; for they will never
leave the capital now; for-where the treasure isthehere the
heart is also."
"With your Majesty's -permission," said Count Isolani, pifer
ing his arm to Inez, and glancing at Giulian, who gave an approv-
ing smile  c  will enter upq the duties -nay, upon the


204             CROW     EWELS                        JEWELS.

pleasures - of my trust at once ; and with the senorita's con-
sent, will conduct her to the music-room."
if",But remember, good comrade," said Giulian aside, as they
passed him, "you are on duty-only one half hour, at the end of
which time you shall be relieved by the second watch."
They turned to a small room, beautifully fitted up, between
the reception-room and the audience-chamber, which was now
almost deserted. They stopped near the doorway.
"1I shall begin to fear, from the seuiorita's silence," said
Count Isolani,- "that she is not over-pleased, and has scarcely
confidence in one of his Majesty's appointments."
" No, no! " cried Inez, "you must credit everything to-night,
that you do not find agreeable in your patron-lady, to inexper-
ience; for, you know, this is my debt, not only in Court-life,
but in society itself."
" Yes," said the Count, "Captain Navarro,-Giulian, I have
learned to call him-has told me all about you, and your home
at Querataro, and has made me long to meet you, as though
you, too, were a friend: we shall be such, I trust. But shall I be
so selfish now," he continued, as he stood in the doorway, " as to
deny the pleasure of presentation to these young officers," half
motioning to a group of gentlemen near, " who have been giv-
ing me all manner of signs to that effect ?  If I do, I shall
receive their anathemas to-morrow. But see," he exclaimed, as
they looked behind~ and saw the music-room was mpty, "here
is a haven of rest. Shall we not enter?
It was indeed a sacred spot, devoted to the holy Nine by the
Emupress ; but there was to-night one little sprite, with danger-
ous .arrows, a wicked Cupid, lurking in the temple, that had
tried his skill on all that came within. May In z and Count
Isolani escape ! In one corner stood a rosewo d piano, its
open front revealing a row of beautiful pearl ke; s. Near by,
stood a gilded harp, whose tones, in perfect accordI, waited the
touch of an Orphean hand.
"Captain Navarro has the advantage of me, s uorita," said
Count Isolani, as he led Inez to a small sofa, behind the blue
and white curtains of the window. " He has already sworn
allegiance to our 'ladye fayre,' and obtained the grant of her.
favor ; while. I must go through my trial time. However, Giu-
lian and I, you know, have agreed to be a second duo, Damon
and Phintias, and therefore will not quarrel."
" And I," said Inez, smiling 4"am. to take the disagreeable
role of Dionysius in this wonderful friendship, am I ?"

" And we therefore beg that your faithful minister, and
executioner, Cupid, be not permitted to use barbed arrows!"
"A truce to such raillery," cried Inez, blushing, "and tell
me something of the Emperor and Empress. Does her Majesty
preside over this little music temple herself?"
"Yes," said Count Isolani, " this little room is a favorite
gathering-placein the evening, with the members of the House,
listening sometimes to the Empress, and again to one of the
ladies. The Countess Iollonitz, who left us near a month ago,
was a fine performer, and we miss her greatly. But her
Majesty proposes to select her ladies from those of the capital
soon, which will doubtless add' to our circle."
" How fortunate you are, .to. be so near the Emperor and
Empress," said Inez.
Yes," replied the Count, "being private secretary to the
Emperor throws ine much with him; but then we have been
together, since our boyhood. While we have peace, this suits
very well; but, if there is an issue of arms, I must go to the
field."
" Ah! but we shall not have that," said Inez; "the dark
days for Mexico have passed. But let me ask, my knight, one
more question. Do their Majesties intend this palace as their
place of residence? "
"For the present. The Emperor designs fitting up the old
Castle of Chepultepec, just three miles out, you know, for
his home ; though the State meetings will all be held here,
of course. You have never been through this palace, have you?
Guilian or I must show you through, some morning soon. Ah !
there he is now ! "
" Sleeping on the watch ? " said Giulian, approaching them.
"The half-hour has passed, et en quatre;- I. am unselfish
enough to come and tell you, that Signor Tortella, our young
poet, is about to read his poem in honor of the Empress, and
every one has adjourned to the audience-chamber to hear it.
Will you go?"
They followed- Giulian into' the audience-room, where the
music had ceased, and. the guests were waiting to hear the
poem.
Signor Tortella, a dark, spirituel-looking young man, stood
before the dais, where the Emperor and Empress sat; and while
a hush pervaded the apartment, repeated, in an earnest finished
style, a tribute of love and gratitude to the young Empress, for
her kind patronage of literature and art.

I I

CR OWN JE yPELS.             205

..


CROWN JEWELS.             207

As the voice of the speaker ceased, a murmur of applause
ran through the guests. Carlotta's face beamed with pleasure.
1t was a surprise so agreeable, and unexpected. Rising from
her chair, she stood on the first step of the dais; and taking
from her finger a beautiful diamond ring, begged him to accept
it, as an assurance of' esteem for himself, and all those who
endeavored to increase the progress of Art and Science. The
Emperor, too, arose, and standing by Carlotta's side, assured the
Mexican people that so long as the Empire stood, both the
Empress and himself would work for its good, and that noth-
ing would be neglected that could elevate Mexico.
Taking the Empress's hand, and bowing "good-night," they
passed into the Iturbide saloon, and the guests, amid. the
music of the band without, began to take their departure.
Inez's first evening at the palace had drawn to a close. As
she descended to the court-yard with Giulian to enter the car-
riage, she remembered nothing of the whirl of pleasure, save the
dark eyes, and the good-night of Count Isolani, who had parted
with them at the head of the stairs.
"Well, Inez ? " said Giulian, as they were on their home-
ward way.,
"Ah ! Giulian ! " she cried, "how can I thank you enough,
for making us come to the capital ? This is indeed the world
I have dreamed of ! This is indeed happiness!"
" But you say nothing of the Emperor and Empress. I
thought you were to see no one beside them," said Giulian,
half laughing at her eagerness.
"They ? Ah ! it is the old story of the Queen of Sheba: 'the
half had not been told me.'
"And Count Isolani?"
"Ah I" said Inez, not quite so freely, "he is like what I
imagined him;-you like him, and I cannot fail to do so. But
here we are in our own court-yard. To-morrow must be de-
voted to Afita and my uncle, who must hear the adventures
of this fairy-like evening. We shall see you to-morrow; shall
we not, Giulia? "
" I trust so. Our regiment has a dress parade on the Ala-
meda in the afternoon; you know we are statio ed near there.
But never fear: Isolani will come, if I do not ; your two
knights will not neglect you. Pensez a. moi. Gbod-night ! "
Giulian left her, and as he made his way thr ugh the quiet
streets to the Alameda, and on to the. ene n~ment of the

r
i
S
i
i
}i
'
'a
.

Empress's Guard, his heart thrilled with pride at the remem-
brance of the impress that his betrothed had made at the
palace. He had thrown all jealousy away; forahe had perfect
trust in her now, and there was no shadow of pain in the grati-
fied pleasure he felt, that his friend, Count Isolani, must have
found her equal to all that he had heard; for on many a moon-
lit eve, this friend and confidant had walked with him on the
quiet Alameda, when all but themselves had gone, and each
had heard the story of the other's life. Giulian had grown
familiar with the old castle in the Tyrol, and in his mind's eye
had seen the beautiful Miramar again and again, as he listened
to the reminiscences of the days Count Isolani had passed with
the Archduke. Count Isolani had known the idol of his
friend's heart; -knew, before he saw her, of her beauty and
accomplishments, and had wished in secret that he could find one
that would fill his nature, as Inez Gonzales filled Giulian's.
And so, with mutual confidence, and interchange-of sympathy,
they had learned to prize each other; and thank the fortune
that had thrown them together.
And Inez? She, too, ran over the evening in her mind, and
as she laid her head upon her quiet pillow, thought of her two
knights, a little tremulously, perhaps ; - thought G-unt Isolani
like Giulian; and yet so unlike ! She hoped they would both
come on the morrow!
A  week passed, during which Inez .was 'not forgotten.
Count, Isolani came with Giulian to pay his compliments to
Anaita and herself. An event it was- to Afita, who went out
so little ; and food for thought and comment until something
more extraordinary presented itself.
The Empress had.been much impressed with the beauty and
grace of Senorita Gonzales upon the reception evening, and as
she was about to appoint her dames and maids of honor from
the Mexican ladies, she had at once decided to offer to Inez
the position left vacant by the Countess- Kollonitz, who had
already returned to Europe; and a note from the Grand Cham-
berlain of the palace was addressed to Inez, requesting her at-
tendance.
It had been but two weeks since her deb2t, and with the
remembrance of the pleasures of that night still on her mind,
Inez was delighted with the prospect.
Anita and Don Ruy, though complimented and gratified at
this mark of favor, raised many objections; but, they at last

206    ,        C.kOWN JEWELS.

E

i
$,


CROWN JEWELS.

CROW V JEWEL

consented, provided her home should not be entirely given up,
that she should be in attendance at the palace when her Majesty
desired. She was, however, to g' there for the first month, or
until she became accustomed to her duties.
To Inez, the change was delightful. Though her uncle's
home was elegant and tasteful, yet it had an atmosphere of
gloom and stateliness about it that could not be dispelled. But
now life wore its brightest, happiest face to Inez. At the
palace she would be the constant friend and companion of the
Empa ess -- a privilege which Inez felt would be no small one,
and whichshe was well prepared to appreciate.*

.-.-.

CHAPTER XXIII.

NEZ GONZALES was a good Catholic and a good
Christian.  With but few influences, sacred or other-
wise, from the outside world and her fell w-creatures,
thrown about her youth, she had grown up under the
teachings of her own pure heart, which told her of the good-
ness and loveof the great Creator. Listening to the voice of
Nature without, that spoke as a familiar friend to her soul,
she had formed for herself a system of piety and religion, which,
though perhaps hartily accepted as orthodox by the Church,
yet had in her the viistue of fervent sincerity'.
In her old home at Querataro, there had been none, save
sometimes to Giulian, to whom she revealed the impulses that
stirred her girlish heart. True, Ahita had taught her that
nightly she must tell her beads, and whisper her Ave Maria
when in the time of danger or of temptation; that, as a daugh-
ter of the Church, on Fridays she must eat no meat. Yet in
her soul, Inez felt that this was not enough; that the senseless
mumbling of careless prayers, as often she had herd them from
the old priest that ministered in the Cathedralat Querataro -
pxayers hurried through with irreverent haste -this, she felt,
* The author has not taken undue liberty here, s the Empress .arlotta had many
Mexican dames d'onneur, who resided at their own homes in the sty, and were only
in attendance on reception evenings and state occasions.

could not reach, or come as near the ear of God, as the C"voice
of the lark with her singing."  The girl felt that the heartless
observance of forms and ceremonies was but mocking the all-
loving One ; and that in offering this, as her religion, as the be-
ginning and end of her faith and duty, to her immortal spirit,
that, burning with holy emotions, craved a higher creed, a
warmer devotion, she did but give it a "stone, instead of the
bread of life." Not that she dissented from the faith of the
.Roman Church: that, she was taught from her childhood, was
the "true spouse of Christ; " but it was practical religion, as
she saw. it wanting in its followers, that she felt was overlooked ;
and she endeavored to bring it, into her daily life.
And so, growing up, half alone, following her own inclina-
tions, giving play to the dreamy fancies- of her unfettered
soul, Inez fell into an ideal kind of life; and perhaps, in her
own way, stumbled nearer the truth than wise philosophers,
who seek 'to find it, guided by the head, and not the heart.
She observed, as has been mentioned, with scrupulous care the
ordinances of her Church; yet her faith and practice was to
look abroad upon the earth, in its beautiful and gay apparel-
ing; in her evening walk, to mark the clothing of the lowly
lily; to. watch the sunlight chasing the dew-drop from  its
grassy bed, or sinking in glorious majesty behind the distant
hills; to feel her soul tremble with thanksgiving and j  as
she whispered to her heart, " these are the gifts of my Father,
made by Him for me." And when at the vesper hour, she un-
clasped the Holy Book of God, and read again of the greater
holier gift than all others, she felt that Christ came to die for
her; that, had no other man, woman, or child transgressed the
law, yet wpuld her Father have given His Son for her souls
salvation ; and then, each page of the undying record would
shine with a diviner lustre, and her heart would lift itself
anew in adoration and thankfulness. She loved the holy God
with no craven thought of fear; and the service she offered
Him was not to escape punishment, but an expression of deep,
and fervent gratitude.
Her father's, Don Juan Gonzales', code of morality might .
have been summed up in the one word, " Honor." Be honora-
ble, and all other virtues come. He taught his daughter  and
tried to teach his son, that their word, even though lightly
given, must be held sacred; and a breach of faith was a stain
upon their escutcheon, that no after repentance could efraice.,
lie encouraged JneZ to e xcel in, all that she undertook ; and

208

209,

-

i


210                 CR0 W' JEWELS.
saw to it that neither she nor Juan, his son, lacked for oppor-
tunities to cultivate their mental endowments'; to Anita and
the priest he left them, for spiritual knowledge. With one, the
t res that grow naturally in the human heart, in greater or less
lixuriance, as the soil fosters them, rooted out and. crushed
down all the seed, which, when grown up to the period of fruit-
bearing, there was iione to be found. There gere no golden
sheaves in Juan's field, and so he went-his own way. But with
Inez it was different. Deep and impassioned in soul, truth
itself in word and deed, she was unswerving in the right path,.
and unflagging in energy in the pursuit of all that enriches the
mind and ennobles the soul; and so, at the time of her intro-
duction to the reader, and of her coming4to the capital, it
would have been difficult to find, in Mexico or elsewhere, a
jewel so richly set. True, there had been with her that longing
to see and know the world, and taste of its pleasures, natural-
o youth, and which the soul, later in life, condemns, with the
preacher, as all "vanity and vexation;" yet think lesson was one
that she must learn, that all must learn-" the emptiness of'life"
-- before the earth-loving eyes can be turned towards the other
land; those eyes must be opened bySorrow, before they can see,
through the mists that hang over the dark river, the crystal
pebbles that strew the shining shore beyond. Inez Gonzales
began this life-lesson at the palace in Mexico.
It was impossible for two persons so congenial, in refined
taste and sympathy, as was the Empress Carlotta and her new*
naid of honor, to meet, without becoming united by the
strongest ties of ;friendship and love.
During .the first month that Jnez spent a~ the palace, the
admiration with which the Empress had at fi st regarded her,
on account of her personal beauty, was deepe ed into respect
and esteem, as she daily discovered the many attractions of
her mind and heart. She found her a cultivated friend and
companion, familiar with the poets, ancient and modern, whose
works are household friends in Europe andAmerica ; fond of
music, and interested in all the arts and sciences that come
within a woman's sphere. Their intercourse with each other
took a higher, more intellectual tone than is usually accorded
to the interchange of thought with the female mind; and their
conversation drifted, perhaps, beyond the $iit allotted to
woman's ability and comprehension; and yet, it was not often
that either found themselves in danger of wr oking their barks,

{I

I

CROWN JEWELS                   211.
upon the sea o, knowledge: there seemed always ballast
enough to save tliem.
When the period arrived that had been fixed for Inez to
return t? her uncle's, the Empress declared she could not give
her up; that the palace must be her home; and arranging that
she could see her relatives, whenever she or they desired, Inez
nothing loth, consented, and became at once established as one
as theroyal family.
On the evenings of the weekly receptions at the palace, the
different ladies of honor appointed. by Her Majesty since her
arrival in Mexico were all present; but Inez and the Countess
Zichy were the only two who were with the Empress- as com-
panions Count; Frangois Zichy being one of the officers of the
household, and a warm friend to the Emperor.
Often, there was a drive with the Empress on the Alameda,
the park of the capital; or, if the Empress accompanied" the
Emperor en chevat to review the troops about the city, or exam-
ine the fortifications that were being thrown up for its defence,
Inez always accompanied, usually attended by Count Isolani,
the Emperor's aid and secretary. Sometimes Captain Navarro
joined, them, though he was oftenest on duty with his regi-
ment.
Then, there were visits to be made to the -hospitals with the
Empress; to the schools that she had established; or some-
times it was a stately morning, at some one of the old convents,
with the solemn, sad-looking nuns, who received and enter-
tained them with a kind of habitual funereal graciousness. On
many occasions, particularly upon their charitable missions,
the Empress preferred to walk, that her alms-giving might not
be paraded through the streets with vain-glorying and ostenta-
tious pride. She gave of her plenty to the poor, and it was a
pure motive that impelled her to give them her presence like-
wise; in love for the souls of her people and pity for their suf-
fering the shining coin was given, with a word of encourage-
ment and ,comfort, that perhaps fed the.spirit that was all un-
used to such.  While she ministered to the body, Carlotta
did not forget the spiritual wants.
As the Emperor was much engaged in the morning with
affairs of business, Inez and the Empress were then much to-
gether. In the evening, the little music-room in the rear of the
grand saloon was a favorite gathering-place~ with the household
and many an hour flitted a-way there unheeded: the Emperor
and Empress engaged with some guest, perhaps, and Inez with

f
,a
Y'
h
x
i
'-1
,I
-,1

f,
r
-  c
J
I.-r C


212

CROWN-JE7LB.

pount Isolani, Captain Navarro, and other
regarded with special favor by their Maje$
with the entree to the family circle.
The Emperor breakfasted alone at an
Majesty, later with her ladies; and after th
in the private chapel of the palace, the enga
tion of the day began.
When they were not called out by some
ally repaired to the little ante-room leading
parlor. She had fitted it up- as a kind of lib
portion of it being devoted to artist utensils
which stood a half-finished picture; near b
cabinet, curiously inlaid with aromatic, highl
filled with boxes of paint, brushes, pallet, etc
or portfolio of finely selected engravings, m
Italian scenery, lay upon the table.' The
adorned with pictures, most of them painte
herself at Miramar ; she had brought them
irs of that dear home and happy past.
Many long delightful hours did Inez and
together in this little room. Sometimes,
literary mood, Inez would read aloud from
while the picture on the easel would develop
grow beneath the touch of the Empress's b
felt indifferent to the thoughts of others, toyi
cate piece of broidery, -she would divert an
companion by her original ideas, and piquant
different subjects that presented themselves.
It was some two months since Inez had c
The old year had gone with a blessing, and
with a welcome, and had brought the bright,
which in Mexico know naught of the-chillin
climes.
Inez and the Empress sat together in t
Majesty before the easel that stood near the
she leaned over her picture, stopping her br
to catch the lights and shadows that brou
ground, or- softened the distance, Inez
Schiller's immortal.drama of " Wallensein."
Thekla's visit to her father's old astrologer,
Chaldean. lore, assumed to read the destini
m~ystic influences of the stars that preside at t

CROWN JEWEL.

officers, who were
ties, and indulged
early hour ; her
e morning prayers
ements or occupa-
luty, Carlotta usu-
out of her private
nary or studio, one
--an easel, upon
,a little Mexican
dy-colored woods,
; and a huge book
stly German and
dark walls were
d by the Empress
with her as souve-
the Empress pass
hen each felt in a
a favorite author,
new beauties, and
rush. Or, if Inez
ng with some deli-
amuse her royal
t sallies upon the
ome to the palace.
he new had come
lad January days'
frosts of higher
he studio; -her
window. While
sh now and then
ht out the fore-
ead aloud from
She-had passed
ho, with erudite
s of men in the
their birth.

213

"'Tis Jupiter that brings whate'er is great,
And Venus everything that's fair."
Surely," said Inez, commenting as she passed on in her
reading, "these two powerful divinities lent their propitious
beams to the Emperor and yourself; for there seems to be only
good fortune attending you both."
"Ah, yes I1" said the Empress; " old Seni's fanciful theory
does well enough; but there is a truer one, is there not, Inez,
that tells us' each soul is the star of its own destiny'? But let
us}get on to Thekla and her lover, the noble Piccolomini. We
must not be so daring as to place our ideas against, or contro-
vert Schiller's; it would be blasphemy in Germany."
Inez continued the reading, and came to the scene between
the lovers, half-tearful, yet very tender, where Thekla, in
answer to his murmurings, answers him softly,
"Are we not happy nowi Art thou not mine
Am I not thine? There lies within my soul
A lofty courage ; 'tis love gives it to me!1
I ought to be less open, -ought to hide
My heart more from thee: so decorum dictates:
But where in this place could'st thou seek for truth,
If in my mouth thou did'st not find it?"
"Poor Thekla!" said her Majesty, as Inez paused, "it was
an evil star that shone upon her love ! - Do you believe, that
when the heart centres itself upon another that there is strength
enough in. human will to keep it locked within the soul?    It
may be hidden from -careless eyes; it may be kept a secret gem
from the world; but does not the one to whom it belongs, to
whom every thought, every action turns, hold a mysterious
power over the heart that yields allegiance, that will discover
what we strive in vain to conceal ?"
Her Majesty's words hardly formed themselves into a ques-
tion, but seemed more a half-murmured soliloquy to herself,
and she did not notice the slight blush that overspread the
girl's face and the serious, thoughtful look that had stolen into
her eyes. . The Empress went on with her painting, and Inez,
with the book lying half-open on her lap, apparently, watched
her brush. But her thoughts had found a channel, into which
she hardly dared permit them flow. She was wondering if she'
had ever felt this all-powerful love that her Majesty spoke of.
It had been Giulian's gentle chiding that she had kept all these
fond emotions, that he trusted she felt for him, hidden too
 much; and yet it seemed to her that she expressed all she fdLt
for Giuliani. Since she had come to the capital, she had begun

;1

I

I IB
1'
I'
7
7
{H
{  "
-H

r

T%
ti:
t_
Y
4
;Y.
2
i
i


214 -               CROW    JEWELS.
to see more truly than ever that she should never love him with
that wild devotion, with that stirring intensity that others
spoke of. She knew that he was noble     d good; that he
would be faithful in the keeping of her hear ; and she would
marry him. 4But then, --and Inez trembled as if in the pres-
ence of evil at the thought,--she wished she might feel this
true love, that passeth all understanding. Had she ever seen
one that she thought could call it up ?  He heart was silent,
or it dared not give answer. Yes, there was one; perhaps, if
iulian were more like him, the waters would ow out unbidden.
It came to her for the first time, as she sat there, that she had
been deceiving herself: that the charm which Count Isolani's
society had for her was not alone because he was Giulian's
friend; because he spoke of Giulian as a brother, and loved him
as such. 'Surely, surely, she was not learning to love Victor
Isolani for himself. And the Empress had said the secret could
not be kept back. There was terror in the thought. If her
heart was treacherous, O God ! help her to keep it to herself;
help her to root it out; let not Victor Isolani despise her for
her unsought love, let not Giulian scorn he for her broken
faith.'
There were footsteps in the little parlor adjoining ; and in a
few moments the Emperor appeared at the door.
"Is the sanctum sanctorum closed this morning ?" he said
'playfully, as he waited for a moment. "'As this is your Maj-
esty's private kingdom, I come to beg admittance for Colonel
Lopez and myself. He is waiting here, and is anxious to see
your Majesty's pictures, and the engraving of Chamounix,
which, I believe, is in our collection there, is it not?"
As the Emperor spoke, Colonel Miguel Lopez, who had come
up with him from his private cabinet, appeare at his side.
"Aht Colonel Lopez," said the Empress, rising and putting
aside her easel, -"I am glad to fulfil a promise which I be-
lipve you hold against me for some time past  o show you these
engravings, which are indeed fine. As for the pictures, they
are not much: only prized by Maximilian and myself, for their
association"-
" And prized by all Mexicans," said Colonel Lopez, as he
s~ood with the Empress before a little sunset view of Miramar,
'4 because they are the work of -your- Majesty's' hands. As
saoh, they are dearer than a thousand Raphael) or Guidos." .
~'Seaiorita Inz, said the Emperor to Inez, who had risen and
was standing by the window, "I left a most disconsolate knight

CROWN JEWEL.

- 215

below, and promised that I would send you with your sym-
pathetic heart to comfort him. Count Isolani," continued the
Emperor, as Inez looked up inquiringly, "has just lost his
magnificent bay, which you know was presented to him last
summer by the Prefect here; and he has all the fires of remorse
and self-reproach mingled with his sorrow, as the veterinary
tells him the horse's death was caused from over-exertion in a
race which he and Captain Navarro took to Gaudahtpe yester-
day afternoon. Do go down, and comfort him before his heart
is quite broken."
Complying with the Emperor's request, Inez left the studio,
and descended to the reception-room, where- she found Count
Isolani waiting  She did not like to meet him now alone. She
was afraid that some involuntary tinge of the cheek or tremor
of the'voice would betray her heart's secret, and yet it was well
enough to begin the struggle to-day, for she knew that she
could not face her conscience while she bore this guilty bur-
den.
Count Isolani rose as she entered, and came forward with a
half-comic, despairing face to meet her.
. "Ah ! Senorita; you have come ! Did the Emperor lay my
piteous case before you? Colonel Lopez has promised to put
Captain Navarro on double duty, as it was1he that tempted me
to the race ; but for him, I should have gone staidly and soberly
along with the'other Christian people on the Alameda, and poor
Hassan might have been in life to-day!"
" Ah ! Count," said Inez, smiling, " Black Hassan has only
paid the debt that his master must pay to nature, too, sooner or
later. If there was only a heaven for this nobler order of: the
brute creation, there would ofttimes be comfort in the thought.
As it is, I can only offer you my profoundest sympathy. It is
scarcely practicable just now to build a city, &amp; 1a Alexander,
for this modern Bucephalus; or, after Caligula's fashion, canonize
Black Hassan; so you must practise the virtue of fortitude and
resignation under your affliction."
"Yes," said the Count; "I can only chant the great Sir Wal-
ter's requiem,-
wo worth the chase, wo worth the day,
That cost thy life, my gallant gray.'
Let us drop a tear to Hassan's memory, and, consecrated with
that sacred tribute, let it pass. I have a 'coraimission to fill,
Seniorita, and am afraid to trust my memory with it longer;

.0

f1

f'
n
9
3
F y
lJr
S_
Y
A
t
S
5
5 '
S
3
a
ti
n ss
4 S
B        -
3
S
1

4z!,'  -:
;.c
+::
;::.'.
-: s".
Y-t;!r'
.Y?! "
.
',y;'.
'.
:.
.
: '-
'
,J'.,'
E
4  "
2  ,
p--,'
-, L,
i
L
i!t
;
'ti^
:r,,, .


CR0 W JEWELS

C4ptain Navarro, whose regiment I have just left, begged me
to say, that, with your permission, he would oin you in the
royal box at the 'Teatro,' this evening. It is Signora Peral-
ta's benefit."
"Ah ! yes, and I can tell you a secret," said nez, "though I
suppose it is hardly one now. The Emperor nd Empress go
tQ-night, and her Majesty is going to present a Signora with
a beautiful set of diamonds, in token of her appreciation of her
talent."
"How kind, and how like the Empress Carlotta ! " said the
Count. "I have not yet heard Signora Peralta, but will of
course go to-night. Does she give us Spanish cr Italian ?"
' Italian, I think ; we shall doubtless have a fine house."
" I had almost forgotten my own petition.- a drive on the
Alameda this afternoon; the Hussars -have a full parade, and
Count Khevenhiller has them splendidly mounted and drilled,
you know. Will you go? We shall doubtless  eet Giulian!"
"To both petitions Ianswer 'yes;'the day s too lovely to
let it go by unmarked."
" Then you will be ready, and I shall wait ere for you at
four. Until then, au revoir."
" A&amp; revoir I"

CHAPTER. XXIV.

HE weeks and days of Inez's life at t
slipping away. The novelty attending I
passed,, and while she was as much a
Empress as possible, she was beginning
the exciting pleasure, or the listless ease that
time ;- and ofttimes, when, in the moments of re
between the coming and going, she asked hers(
happier in the world, or as she was at Querata
waited to hear her heart's sigh as it gave answ(
home there had been no temptation, no test by
her strength. She had come here believing, he
with. truth and faithfulness, and at the first
herself giving way.

he palace were
er position had
attached to the
g to weary of
filled up, her
,reat she found
elf if she were
o, she scarcely
r. At the old
which to prove
self panoplied
rial she found

Again and again, Inez asked herself what sudden charm had
made Victor Isolani so dear to her. What was there in the
deep tones of his voice that made it more welcome than all
others; and why did his face, instead of Giulian's, haunt her in
her hours of -solitude ?  She began to grow nervous for the
presence of her betrothed in the evening circle. To see, his
trust and love for her, would help her to still the wrongful
pleadings of her heart.  Inez was not blind to the fact
that Count Isolani was not indifferent to herself. A hundred
-things told her each day, that the same struggle had come to
him that had arisen in her own heart. She knew that he was
too noble to take advantage-of his friend ; that,.although he
might know her heart was his, yet she believed that he was
strong enough to put aside his happiness, rather than purchase
it with his honor.
Inez was right. Victor Isolani was trying to keep that pre-
cious jewel bright in his soul. He could not blind himself with
the false persuasion that he'was attracted towards this beautiful
girl, with no deeper, stronger feeling than that of friendship.
He had begun to look to the quiet evening hours, when tley
were often tite-A-tte in the music-room, while the Emperor
and Empress were engaged with their guests, as the centre of
the day's happiness. There was a soft gentleness about her-man,
ner that fascinated him more each time he saw her, and the
chords of her soul, deep-toned, and full of poetic feeling; seemed
in unison with his own.
Never before had Count Isolani seen the woman to whom
he could give his heart's love, free and entire; and he stood
aghast with horror, as the bright vision of happiness came to
him, o'ershadowed by the pall of despair. Love thefancee of
another! the betrothed of his bosom's friend! It was in vain
that he brought the philosophy of reason to bear upon the mad-
ness of his passion. This current that had swept in to him,
from the sea of life, dashed each argument aside, as though they
were the toy-mills of childhood. He felt himself borne on at
first, without roast or sail. He knew that he loved Inez Gon-
zales more than he dreamed it possible that woman could be
loved, and in his hours of greatest trial there was a mocking,
tempting voice that whispered, "Why should k0 be happy,
and you go lonely and loveless, through the weary years that
are to come. She may love youd!' And then the solemn truth
would mournfully come home to him, as it does to the children

10

I

u
s
ya
j
cf
f
yM
C
k
Y
t
il
4
# 4,
Q
d
s
3
k
d
n
f
F
y
ij$  "+
d
X
t##
L
t
S S
)t
3
y1
iy
4
Y
r

217

216

CROWN JEWELS.


If1,

218                 CR0W  W,   ELa
6f clay: ""The heart of mian is deceitful abov  all things, and
desperately wicked."
" No, no !" cried Fount Isolani, as his soul w ked up from its
dream; "he would learn 'to conquer himself. e would not be.
a traitor to himself, nor to his friend.." He w uld not throw
himself in temptation's way, for he knew there was danger in
her paths. He would only see Inez as he did the other ladies
of the Court, and perhaps time would aid him  o put aside his
love. It was hard to give up those precious hours with the
only one he had found that knew the language of his heart's
yoice:' and yet it must be done. And so there crept into their
casual meetings a mutual embarrassment and restraint, -that
told to each, without a word, the bitter truth  While those
two struggled in secret, Giulian's life went on in a blissful,
happy dream. It was enough, that he had Ine 's promise, and
he believed he had her love, as much as she wouldd ever give
to any one, and he thanked God daily for the bk ssing; and the
friendship and confidence between himself and Victor Isolani
went on the same. Victor listened in' silence t his dreams of
the future. Alas! there was no picture, save f darkness and
despair, for him ! How little Giulian dreamed hat the corner-
4tone upon which his temple of happiness was eared, was his
friend's-blighted heart.k
The weeks passed away;' and winter' was" lingering in the
lap of spring."'
It was a cold, raw morning in March. A driyig mist with-
out, enveloped houses and street in gloomy haz ess; and gray,
lowering clouds drifted slowly across the horizo
The Empress was' preparing a budget of letters for Europe;
and Inez had the morning to herself. For an hour or more,
she sat by the high window of her own room, looking outupon
the drearyPlaza, and the cold, stony face of the Cathedral be-
yond. At last, growing tired of watching the hapless pedes-
trians that now and- then crossed the square, a d of listlessly
dreaming over the book that lay open on the esement beside
her, she thought of her 'harp that she had sadly neglected of.
late ; and, rising, she went' through the cor-ridor, ad softly down
the stairs, into the little music-roonm in the rear of the grand
loon. There was not a chance that she should bi disturbed,
and, scarcely looking about her, she' laid her book upon the
piano, and seated herself 'beside the harp.
~She ran her fingers 'lightly over the strings, anid began, timidly,
as if half-afraid to break the silence~ around, the sweet old Ger.

I, 1

219

L
if

CROWN. EWEL.

I

;;

I

t
i
t

ma    - ai," Wen die schwalde 1eimwmirt."  Forgettingher-
sf , as the spirit of the music crept into her soil, her voice
ra ally grew stronger and fuller, and,. floating through the
half-closed door that led into the reception-room, filled its
legh and breadth with rich melody. As she finished, and
he voice died away, she looked up, and Count Isolani stood in
the doorway.
"Is it wrong, senorita," said he, coming towards her, as he
noticed the flush that overspread Inez's face,."that we should
sometimes take advantage of circumstances to remit the heart's
penance ? I had come down to while away the dreary nworn-
i  with Goeithe in the reception-room,-finer temperaments,
yo know are true barometers, always affected by change of
tem erature;- so say those who have analyzed the invisible
wires that control the heart through these mysterious outside
influences. Goethe and I are both sad this morning, - a tinge,
erhaps of the ffeimweh that clings to German hearts. I
should not have disturbed you, but for a longing to hear that
old song again. In token of forgiveness, will you sing the last
verse once more?"
Could'victor Isolani have placed himself back in the, recep-
tion-room a moment later, how gladly would he have done so!I
Scarcely had those sweet tones, now softened by a tremor of
sadness fallen upon his listening ear, than his heart told him
" it was not good, that he was here," - that he was not
strong enough yet, to overcome the enemy within; but an irre-
sistible impulse, a yearning for sympathy that he knew Inez
could 'give had led him to her ; and so he stood there, lean-
ing one arm upon the piano, and looking, - hopelessly and
'tenderly,- into her face.
"Dear old'Germany ! " he exclaimed, as she finished again,
and struck out the rich chords of the symphony. "llow many
remembrances hang about these songs ! "
"Yes," said Inez, "we are told by poets, you know, that the
perfume of a flower  a half-forgotten melody -have greatest
power to bring up past joy, or sorrow!"
"Yes," said the Count, "the twilight song of the evening
wai4ler calls up the distant chimes; and ofttimes they ring
out fiercely, even in the midnight hours, heard by noother
ear save our own; and phantom forms, that were realities
in days gone by, march with solemn footsteps through the
cathedral within,"

f"


220            .CRQW JEWEZS

"But Memory -has a gladsome page for y~i
Count Isolani, -these solemn bells ring not for jyou?"
"This morning, as I look back,' seforita, it is a darksome
picture. In our fitful moods, we see things di erently. To-
morrow, perhaps, there might be scenes of the past, lit up by the
sunshne of joy; but to-day, dead faces are reme bered, whose
names aro -lost in green, obliteration. A moscvrd    v-
wreathed vault, behind an old castle, that has  ut one stone
crypt vacant, - like Count Lara, that must be 'my last and
longest dwelling-place;' a lonely man,---' somewhat touched by
' I am atod y t       oamy billows of Lift's main, to be
anchored at last, God only knows where !"
" But why, Count Isolani, look backward, upon the mists
and sorrows of the past ?   There is the future still to
come! "
".Ah!i seniorita, that is life ;  the,,  past and there future!, Re.
membring and hoping! iWe barter to-day for tht gay, glitter-
ing bauble which to-morrow loses its gorgeous coloring almost
before it is our own; and we hold, as the price o our folly, a
" And yet," said Inez, sadly, -
"'such ebb and flow must ever be,
Then wherefore should we mourn P
Gather a rose, andwhile we gaze upon its beauty, and its fra-
grance is. shed abroad, the leaves fall away and the flower is
gone ; but the parent tree at our side still lives, and may give
us in season another. I sometimes think," continued Inez,
"that perhaps it is better to know naught of the world's pleas-
ures,its amnbitions, and its hopes, than to taste its bitter dis-
appointments."
"And yet, in the quiet of solitude, with no tangible sorrow
of our own, there must be something to give the soul a breath
of life; it cannot lie pulseless and dead forever. We look into
the silent faces of these friends," continued the Count, holding
up the volume in his hand, 'and we read in the speaking eyes,
' .tale of toilsome striving, and suffering; our heart gives an
answering echo to the tones with which the heart-strings of
another have broken. We think we have learned from their
example to control our spirit, to overcome weak ess, to fight
against wrong; to endure, to. suffer, to die, if need be, for the
cuse of Truth. ~And yet, when we go out to battle~ -another's
science of warfare will scarcely do for us, -the fihinting spirit

F    ,     r ?
rt,
y I
y    ) qi
y.i   4 "v
C
IFS
:  4 Y
}  :',; e t
1      t  J
,
)  ,    v
, !
14  J
F
4
S Fit  Y
f
Q' ,.
h
g
t
2
1
%

CROW   JEWELS.
whispers to us, 'You are not so strong, as they; give up ! give
"No, no, Count Isolani " said Inez softly; "is there not
more gory in struggling for. the victory, even if it is never
won? gThere are other voices that whisper, 'Courage!' to us;
and when we are too weak to fight on- the morrow, lead us away
from the enemy in the still hours of the night."
"Andwillthis good angel, seiorita, help us unto the end ?
Will she keep the gems of the soul, truth and honor, un-
dimmed? "
The Count bent eagerly forward to hear her answer; and the
low tones that fell on his ear seemed the teachings of the good
spirit of which they spoke.           -
"There is a Higher Power, Count Isolani - One who, though
God, was tempted like unto man, who has given us a shield.
'If these jewels aei  agro  en lost, there is a prayer that l
wilhlp one to hold them fast : 'Deliver us from evil, and -lead w epu  o notmtto
"Seorita Inez," whispered Count Isolani, as he bent his
head nearer "youknow the battle I am fighting ; helpme!
help me to gain the victory! Pray .God to deliver, me from 
temptation!"
He could not trust himself longer. He looked into her face,
and he read; there that she had need of the same prayer. He
took the hand that lay upon the edge of the gilded harp, and-
pressed it to his lips; another moment, and the door closed be-
hind him, and Inez was alone.
She leaned her head upon the harp, and miserably weak, in
spite of her beautiful Christian teachings, she felt ; and in bit-
terness of spirit, felt for the moment that she could not pray.
Wh should she give up this love for Victor Isolani?  Why
should they both be miserable'?
It was only a moment that her heart rebelled against her
faith. Giulian came before her with the long years of love and
kindness that he laid at. her feet. She remembered -her dead
father's words as he had placed her hand in his, and blessed
them both.  She remembered this, and she rose up strong
again, -strong to watch and strong to pray for herself and for
hNeleev for one moment, did Inez give ear to the thought that
she could break her troth with Giulian. The line of duty to
he  a  lin  e   o-cec     a he gude and she had no
thoug fern ro thne ath guhat mattered it


CROW. JEWEL&amp;.

whether there w  hre roses or thorns?  It lay there still, that
holy path, - and, she must pursue it.
And so  Inez and Count Isolani began the journey again;
not together, =-nor daring to look to each other fo comfort;an
yet each comforted by the same God-like prayer that,  ou
irethed pt, gave double strength to each: 'Lead us not
into temptation 1 "no

CHAPTER XXV

HE old Spanish Castle at Chepultepec,,
hung solemn and historic memories, who
walls were eloquent with events long past
to a new era!
Many changes and many years had rolled ov
Hill," since Montezuma sat beneath the cypress
hide, and looked with pride, afar into the distar
fair domain of which he was monarch. The Azt
broken-hearted and broken-spirited, beneath the
quest, into his grave, and his dust long ago has
the mother Earth. As time went on, the proud
lordly Viceroy of Spain took the place of the old
the power passed,.too, from Spain, and Desolatio
abode in the regal apartments, once so full of
splendor; and in the. solemn hush that hung fo
the .spot, there was no sound to be heard, save th
Decay, as she crept stealthily to.and fro, or the ca I
ring of her feathered children, who, with her, hel
possession. The hoary cypress trees without, a
against the destroying spirit. They stood there
against all attack, as 'grim  sentinels guarding
sacred ruins, mournfully waving, with their long
arms, at every breath, a funereal drapery of tangl
ut to the American heart another memory co
eye is turned toward the valley, and as one is tol
ican soldiers who sleep there, unknown and un
historic mind brings upthe "storming of ,Chepul
beauties of the landscape before it fade, and instead

round which
se crumbling
, had awaked
er the "Old
n its sloping
ce, upon the
c chief sank,
yoke of con-
mingled with
castle of the
palace. But
took up her
randeur and
years about
footsteps of
ing and whir-
undisturbed
one bore up
triumphant,
consecrated,
outreaching
d gray moss.
ies. As the
of the Me-
onored, the
tepee ;" the
, is seen'the

dust and smoke of battle; the names of Montezuma and al-
vez are forgotten, as Memory whispers those of "Worth and
Pillow."
u now Chepultepec has awaked ! Old things are passing
away, and  l hnsaemkn         new., The Emperor Maxi-
mia an, imbued with the love of romance and beauty, always
honoring past glories, and seeking the enchantment of old asso-
ciations had selected Chepultepec as his future home and pal-
ace. Architects and artisans had been set to work, and the
aspect of the old castle under their skilful han s and assiduous
labor, had rapidly changed. The cobwebs of y rs were brushed
away from the grand apartments, and the sunshine looked
strangely, wonderingly in, upon rooms that had been long en-
veloped in gloom. The bright gilding of the cornice-work
lit up the dark walls; pand the great carved doors, that had
rusted on their hinges, opened to the new-corner.
Without in the old garden, the same renovation has found
its way: Careful' hands have unlocked the close embrace of
the tangled shrubbery. Again, beautiful walks wind through
beds of flowers, and fallen fountains lift up their marble heads,
and begin again their songs. Noble avenues of trees lead
down the hillside, and a carriage-way comes up under the cy-
ress boughs that overarch, to the terrace in front.
It was a quiet April afternoon, and the Emperor and Em-
press had ridden out with a party of ladies and gentlemen, to
inspect the progress the workmen were making. They had
gone through the castle from room to room, into the long pic-
ture gallery, with its treasures of art; into the grand saloon
that would soon echo with the voices of life and gayety, into
the little chapel, with its antique oaken altar, its stone widows
and vaulted roof, and its dark walls that showed the saints in
p ictured prayer, and had now come out to the high terrace that
ran in a circle around the castle, to take the view of the valley,
as it unrolled itself in front.
The members of their suite had wandered in different direc-
tions about the grounds; and Maximilian and Carlotta stood
alone together. For some moments both were silent, regarding
with an admiration too deep for words, the wide panorama,
spread by the hand of God, over the plain before them.
Far, far in the distance extended the valley, sweeping on-
ward in green, embaying curves, until it reached the foot of
the mountains that wall in the Hesperides garden. Rising in
majesty in the centre of the long range of giant hills, that wind

.v r
__
4 , ,r;
t            o
t            i
03
+; is
r4 t
-"'SFi
qa
T 5
i        "  ti
Yj  
.'
y
' 1         2
r'.
F         ti
{         v
f     ;t
t
M   -
.
:.,
a:
r -"
-
k  -
r
-"
'
,;.
,V
'f
i  f
III  r
S
T,
fly
,4
s
k

P

22

pro WLV jr
WELD.


224

CR0OW1TW JEWELS.

away on either side, stood the huge, colossal pillars, Popocate.
petl and Iztac-cihuatl, the "Gog and Magog of the valley,"
piled up in misty grandeur, their coronets tippe with burnished
gold by the rays of the afternoon sun.
And then the Eden-garden itself ! Beautifal fields, rich in
vernal green; gleaming likes, with no shadow on their silver
aces; overgrown villages dotting the plain ere and there;
groves of elm and poplar, half-way shutting o t the glistening
roof of some distant convent-tower, whose spi e with'"silent
finger points to heaven."  Winding its ser entire length
tigwards the capital, is the aqueduct with its t ousand arches
bearing on its blessing of pure crystal water to refresh the
working multitudes. The quiet sky, with it cerule
loka smilingly down upon the Arcadian see e that begsf
the power of a "perspective in words," to do i justice, in de-
scription.
There was naught save the distant chiming o a convent bell,
now and then borne on the breeze, to disturb the repose of
the still hour.
Maximilian," said Carlotta, "I do not thin Europe could
surpass   is. Chmounix for grandeur, but the  alley of Mex-
ico for beauty!  See how the mists are rolling a ay from those
distant hills and how softly the sunlight plays pon the bosom
of yon lake I Ax! whyis Mexico so backward in poets and
artists to sing her beauties --to place her nam  on the roll of
Becorality?"   Maiilan c
"Because, said Maximilian, "Mexico has be n false to her-
69 ,--a kingdom divided against itself! On , perhaps, has
swn- good seed, has labored through winter  of drift and
snow, and when the golden sheaves of the har st were read
to- begathered in, another has come, and wit jealous hand
scattered the work of months to the wind.  here has been
plenty of good seed sown in Mexico, but the ha vest is always
destroyed. One man is scarcely placed at the h ad of her gov-
ernment, before a pronunciamento puts him do  . "
"nd will this, think you, Maximilianbe o r fate? Can
wotdo morefor Mexico than others who       ave gone be-
t  e mcn et succeed, we will succeed, Carlot a, in making-
this country a monument to our memory when  e die! But
wtrdotc you ay to our palace? he ont' uedl thrd
dthe..,.  cat."oyo- hn  o  c b yedallthe old

- x
i
zt a
r, f
I,-r
" t's;

ghosts that linger about the place, or will'"they frighten you
back to the city?"
c "ot, no," said Carlotta; ",my old nurse, in the days when
'ob           the bugbears of my life, taught me to fear the
ving, and not the dead. Indeed, since you told me of your
remarkabl interview with Montezuma the night of our arrival,
I must confess a secret desire to meet him myself. I shall ex-
pecut tofinfed h some night in the little chapel; or did he
embrace the religion of Cortez before he died? Montezuma
emranl thespayed his fine taste and love for beautiful scenery,
werna h selected this site for his summer palace. I am afraid,
when winter comes again, we shall be' loth to return to the
city, even for a few short months. But, here are our ladies
and their escorts, and-too,
"'Slow sinks, more lovely ere his race be run,
Along Morea's bills, the setting sun.
See how the rays glint against the diamond panes of the win-
dows in the chapel , It is time we were mounting to return, is
it not?".
our Majesty," said the Countess Zichy, as the ladies
Caae up,   I have just seen the celebrated magey plant i
bom, here behind the castle, and the flower is superb. Cap-
tain Navarro here, says that the natives do not often permit it
to bloom, as they cut out the heart, to make their terrible drink,
bique. WHere, are some curious coraverbesi from the Ar
bal~. dePruo you know, that I have been _telling -Seflo-
rita Gonzales, that I scarcely think such fertility of soil, in a
country a blessing to the inhabitants; it makes them too indo-
lent. It has certainly had that effect i Mexico.
"And you believe, Countess," said the Emperor, smihng,
" that it is better for men to earn their bread by the 'sweat
of the brows ?' I believe you are more than half right; for i
these troical climates, in South America, as well as North,
there seems to be a disinclination to exertion, either of mind or
body. But-here -comes the groom with our horses. What a
charming ride homeward we shall have'!"
They mounted their horses, for they had come out en cheval,
and were soon dashing over the smooth road towards the city,
which was only three or four miles distant.
The emperor and EmIpress     o rdeinfanS,then camethe

1'

10*

WOWS w

225

r


26,                CRW0  JEWEL.
zielite, who was often at the palace, followed while Inez and
inhan brought up the rear.
A quiet tete-r-tete was indulged in by the couples, who rode
sbme distance apart. As the sunlight faded at last quite
away, they slackened their pace, and the. horses trod leisurely
a ong the gravelled road. It led now into a grove of some
tent, of elms and oak, through which a gurglin  stream went
dancing over its  rocky bed, between moss-covered lily-fringed
banks. Just where it reached the road, stood a clump of low,
t ick, growing bushes, that skirted the- rivulet for a little
way; and a huge rock, firmly fixed in the bank, half-leaned over
the clear water. The party had all gone ahead, and as Inez
and Giulian approached the little stream, the first beams of
the rising moon stole through the dark branches of the trees,
a d cast the shadow of the shining leaves in the crystal mir-
Was it -imagination, or in truth a human figure, that, it
s emed to Inez, she could dimly see, to rise from behind the
lo, trees and move up the stream? Giulian noticed nothing-
ari before Inez could speak to him, her spirited horse had
taken fright, and dashed off in the direction of the figure, if it
were such.
9ne of those unaccountable suspicions -- the intuition that
never leads woman astray- hadflashed through Inez's mind, if
this, was aught human, spying upon the actions of the royal
party, it might be, she felt the presence of evil- she
knew not how or whence he came but it might
brother. i-uan, er
Iter horse had stumbled at the root of an old tree some
hundred yards in the forest, and as she reined him quickly up,
it seemed to her she heard the well-known hissing tone - p'
" Take care, Inez Gonzales ! the sun shines upon your cause
no, but it may set to-morrow. Think not yourself secure I"
Ipez, in her terror, loosed her hold upon the reins, and the
bewildered animal would have set off again, when a strong
hand seized them, and Inez heard Giulian's voice at her side.
" Inez, my own!" he cried in a voice anxious with emotion,
you are safe ? you are not hurt? What could have fright..
ened your horse ? "
"Only an escapade," said Inez, trying to convince hersef
who e she was, and collecting her thoughts; '"I am all right,
exeta sprained foot; I believe. This wild creature gaem
stirup an ugly twist as he dashed off."   .    gv    y

noOW JEWEL.

227

It had been the work of a moment, and before they reached
the road again, Inez had almost persuaded'herself that it was
her excited fancy that had called up the figure, and the voice;
and that it had been the shadow of the leaves dancing on the
water that had frightened the horse.
She would not mention it to Giulian; it would only bring
up unpleasant memories; and then, how was it possible that
Juan could be in such a place? True, he might be in the city
as a spy, and, always watching the Emperor, had taken advan-
tage of an accident to-night, to gratify his old love of making
her miserable. If this were so, ought she to mention it ? Was
the Emperor in danger ?  Would not- the military police dis-
cover the presence of spies, if there were such in Mexico?
Inez felt humiliated at the thought of Juan's taking such posi-
tion, and she resolved to dismiss the whole, as a conjuration of
her own brain.
" I am afraid you are suffering, Inez," said Giulian, as they
rode on, and the silence was lengthened. "I see the lights of
the city, and hear the music from the band on the Plaza. We
shall soon be at the palace ; but the others will get in before
us."
" Yes, but we can hurry on, and reach the court-yard before
the gates are closed," said Inez, anxiously.
They were soon in the Court, and found the others but just
arrived, and standing on the corridor waiting a moment for
them.
"Ah ! what laggards lovers are !" cried the Empress, as Giu-
lian and Inez came up the stone steps; "after this we shall see
to it that you two are not left behind. An accident?" con-
tinued the Empress anxiously, as Giulian interposed, and began
the explanation of their detention. "You are not hurt, my
child ?  Come in with me;" and she took Inez's arm, and led
her towards her own apartments.
" It is nothing, your Majesty ; only a sprained foot, that will
be all right in a couple of days," said Inez, begging to go' to
her own room.
"Then, good-night," said the Empress, willing to gratify her.
" You must not come down again; but how we shall miss you
from our circle !"
It was more than a week before Inez was able to take her
place in the evening gatherings again; but the days of her
confiement to her room were relieved by the visits of the
EmpressL who -offered every attention to her favorite. And


CROWY JEWELS.
thdn, too, there were little messengers of flowers, and notes each
daf from Giulian, telling her again and again how dear she
was to him, and how dreary it was not to see her ; assurances
-of devotion, that sent a pang to her heart, as she thought of
hoW unworthy she was of such noble love. She resolved anew
that she would be true to him; that he should never know
that she sacrificed her own affection, nay, almost her own hope
of jife's happiness, because she honored and respected him be-
yoi d herself. He should never know that it was Duty alone
that gave her to                            as Dtao

CHAPTER XXVI.

.HEPULTEPEC had been the royal residence for
nearly one month. It was so near the .city, that it
in no wise interfered with the weekly receptions, but
rather gave to the Court gayeties a more varied and
agre able character. The Emperor still held his state meetings
at the national palace; but the evenings were always passed. at
Chepultepec, which was truly a " pleasure palace."
Summer had come, and breathed into the flowers the breath
of lire, and all nature was alive with beauty.
It was reception evening at the palace, and all the slite of
the capital had come out for enjoyment.. The, grand band was
plays g on the terrace in front of the castle, while the guests
were gathering; but as the night closed, and the diawing-room
were filled, the musicians were summoned within; that the
dancing might begin. Within the dancing-room there gathered
a ga assemblage ;. dark-eyed seijoritas and gallant hussars;
dignied, duenna-like seiBoras, and stately dons; all enjoying the
whirl of the mazy dance, either as participators or lookers-on.
Many of the guests lingered in the half-deserted drawing-rooms '
and about the open windows were groups of three or four des-
canting upon the beauties of the night.
Cpunt Isolam 1"said a merry-voiced maiden in one of these
group, do you know, they say that in the garden there, down
by the little fountain on the east, Montezuma's ghost walks
iightlj?  I'll wager, you have never yet gone there after dark

CR0 WN JEWELS.

229

to see it, though doubtless you have heard of its appearance!
If I lived here at the castle, like Senorita Inez and yourself, I
think his ghostship and I would grow quite intimate 1"
"Are you quite sure, Seuorita Altandi, that it is Monte-
zuma's ghost, or Dona Marina's? You know she betrayed him,
by acting as guide to Cortez !."
"Pray don't grow historic, Count! I am not sure of any-
thing in that line; but I tell you again that Montezuma's ghost
is to be seen in the garden, and as I know you are skeptical on
the subject, you shall test the point for us this night., Go now
to the marble fountain; stay there thirty minutes; you will then
hear the chiming of the Cathedral bell striking ten. Come back,
and tell us what you see -tell us that these unearthly spectres
are not simply the hatchings of old women's fancies, and we
shall be convinced.  There! does ndt that sound like. the
.Cumaman sibyl? " she added gayly.
They were standing in a group-Senorita Altandi, Senorita
Gonzales, Count Isolani, Count Khevenhuller, and Captain
Navarro.
" What! senorita," said the Count in a voice of mock terror,
" you will not surely send me alone? You yourself must ao.
company me on this dangerous mission."
"I? " said the girl, laughing. "Iventure with an unbe-
liever into the presence of theunearthly? -I should not dare to.
Count Khevenhuller - no, Senorita Gonzales, you too are an
unbeliever ;.you must go with Count Isolani  We shall await
your return here by the window."
"No, no !" cried Inez nervously, as she turned to Giulian;
".Captain Navarro can go; he can ward off danger with more
power than I."
"Inez, you must go," repeated the girl emphatically. "Cap-
taint Navarro, you are willing to trust her to these unknown
dangers, are you not?"
"With such a knight to;guard her, Famn willing to trust her
even with MAfontezuma's. ghost," said Giulian; turning to Count
Isolani.
TheCount had been silent. So unexpected an emergency had
not resented itself to him when he had gayly made his'petition
for a companion. While he dreaded to place himself in temp-
tation's way, yet courtesy.demanded that he should not refuse.
to have Inez accompany him. They were all waiting, and there
was' no time left to hesitate, so Inez accepted Count -Isolani's
offered-hand. " One moment, Count," cried the Sefiorita. "I

71,
a .
t
s
n
a'
F.
4
y tT
.vkr
, IF
ti


N

OROWY TEWELF. '             21

CROWN JTlEZA9
lad almost, forgotten ! You know there ar=he  agcwrsi
hn rb ,pheeare three niagic words in
the witch's calendar, b which    o           are brought
taearth, and are put in abeyance to mortal call. I learned them
from  y old nurse longao and they maay ass' t you to-nih?
She half-way whispered three tange may asinthe outright "
and exclaiming with mock dignity, "Now, depar  "nez nt'e
Cpunt stepped through the .lo  window, that  d ino  the
cony, and descended the steps that went   d    to the ter-
raceent don to the ter-
The two went in silence round th
of the castle, and entered the beautiful arden. Fllwto  the
windings, they soon reached te open space w ere. the    e
fountain was keeping up its ceaseless murmurin song. There
was a soft fragrance borne on the air, and the d w-drops on the
floWers glistened in the brilliant moonlight.
We are here at last! " said the C n '    e
self on a rustic bench that stood beside the s f-fallen trk
of an old oak, moss-becoveredand festooned  ith a hanging
rosy-vine.     'sia             s      e   wit      stood   ,
S    range        ,seita" id theCount as he sto
beside her, unconsciously reaching up and    ckn       o
from overhead.-.p                         P  clg-a rose
"ue ,,i .    ez.
es," said nez, half embarrassed "andw
accomplishment. Beg..,-Fe' m"ust hasten its
,         Begin, Count, your incantation befo
courage fails."re our
or a moment there was silence' and the Co nt essayed
ain to recall the words given hime by the seioni  Altand
"A eFlas!"he cried despairingly, "like the unfortunate victim
otlie .Forty robbersIIhave forgteth'OeSsmte
Abracadabra that shall break the slumber of      the ea."
d are we not, then to see theuwraith of the great Monte
zuuW; have we dared so much in vai?     of t    with mock
displeasure. "What punishment can I find suffi ient for th
offense, Count Isolani.?"
Ea'h felt that they were sustaining. apartip
And Yet  neither drdt    ac  h iapar inan empty farce,
an  ytnethrdared to face the other with thre ers
It would not do for one moment that either should relax. tAnd
in his soul Count Isolani thanked Inez that she rela him A
her playful words from listening to the dee,  i e ipt hu  by a
crying out within.np, wild]voice that was ..
" My heart is most willing, seiiorita," he rele  e-igy a
he threw the rosebud he had plucked into thepliedo hegy foun
tain, and watched the dancing, gleeful watersaf thaee fun- t

greet it, "my heart is most willing: it is the memoryalone that
is at fault."
" Then that treacherous memory must bear the punishment.
Let it redeem itself now, or forever lose its trust. Let it show
proof that some gem of poetry or prose given to its keeping in
the past, has been faithfully guarded."
Again there was silence in the garden -   silence, save the tink-
ling voice of the silvery-toned fountain, and the soft cooings of
the lonely night-bird in the plain below ; a magic silence, a
moment of hushed quietude, when the moonbeams trembled as
they glanced their timid beams upon the sleeping flowers, and
the dew-drops nestled closer to the sheltering rose-leaves.
The stillness was growing oppressive, and Inez again spoke.
"Will you begin, Count Isolani? or has your poor memory
forsworn its allegiance?"
It was only a second now he hesitated; and then, as if moved
by an impulse that he struggled against, and found himself power-
less to overcome, he began in soft, melodious tones:
" There are brighter dreams than those of Fame,
which are the dreams of love ! Out of the heart
Rises the bright ideal of these dreams,
As from some woodland fount a spirit rises
And sinks again into its silent depths
Ere the enamor'd knight can touch her robe.
'Tis this ideal that the soul of man,
Like the enamor'd knight beside the fountain,
waits for upon the margin of life's stream,
Waits to behold her rise from the dark waters
Cladin a mortalshape! Alas, how many
Must wait in vain ! The stream flows evermore,
But from its silent deeps no spirit rises!"
He stood quite near her now so near, that she could feel,
not hear, the deep, impassioned pathos in his voice, that told the
echoes of the heart-beatings within.     She looked up, and the
dark eyes met her own.      Out of their depths, filled with sad,
despairing light, came the story of the love that his lips dare
not avow.
It was a fearful moment of trial. Count Isolani felt that the
flood-gates which he had held down for months past with giant
strength, which had stood firm    against the Marah waters =that
had angrily lashed, and defiantly surged against them, were ris'
ing now, and the bark of his honor was to be wrecked upon the
sweeping current. He stood there to-night in this hour of great
temptation, no stoic hero conquering his own soul;'he was
only a son of the old Adam, tempted of the beautiful Eve he-


2 ROWN1V JEWELS
re hi only a man with a desperate madden d heart wil
e all, to brave all, to suffer all, if he might only love
Iez! he exclaimed, holding his arms towards her,"
g"inme; apity me; I cannot keep it longer fro you! Ev
g      h forsaken me to-night, and I am a bear to my
, ,an  I  a  a  be ,rdt
urt    he powe tha has helped me to force t into bon
.Trough the months that'hv  psedSnc     itlooedi
y' ur face, is gone; and I stand before  o  noe~wr
o znot of your love, but of your scorn and ne,     13
letrPity plead for me; let her tell that  had watcl
ye rngly and longingly through weary years, r the comi
of the one who was to fill the  ly void, that had een the fost
mther of my infancy, the nurse of my boyhood and the co
thatewh the first glimpse oftheo
my spirit leaped forth to greet, as the ange1 that shou
anoth's dolion away,--to find she was another's  id
an other's idol! My God! must one man's happiness
ano des  m iser!    hr       aapiteous d spair in h
es and his face, upturned, was blanched an white wi
lnez had drooped her head upon her hand She dared n
aood cofor here was a pleading voice that bade her rise u
ad icohess her love for this man; that bade her say to hi'
gdeie hr oy yvows and lighted faith, she would be hi
Giu  n; butfhrer, while life should last ! She thought of
Guan; rever ?hre was the love of her heart; was t to be give
forever?   Was she to put aside the love of Victor Isolani
r precious to her than life itself?"
So e liofte hereyes, and one glance at the pale handsome face,
him fle angai  and despair, was enough. .She could not see
by h s side, her   no word of pitying consolation. She wags
by"4ideo  "he andwas on his arm.
"victor'  she murmured. "God help us both
H}nez!nmydaringd
rn turned and held her close to his heart, s firmly, so
ong    Tharefeelits quick throbbing against her
.own.   hr   a    isuo                         'zs    e
sent   hre was a iss upon her brow, a fond, devot d kiss, that
statril it  her heart; that brought up its secr t treasure
that aid it naytha would have laid her soul, ' need be
ycod ar e h.enow, Inez, mine --mine! and do ou think
igoi ani hou tkefrom me ? No,' no t We sha 1 go this
nshll thine he awa tothe old home in the Tyrol and you

233

CROWN JEWEL&amp;

ling
for,
'ery-
)Wn,
ae-
nlto
hy,
ukt,
hed
Ing
er-
i
ne
Id
be
'is
th
Dt
tp
is
fa
n

There was a wild triumph- the exultation of a wicked fiend
in his voice - as the passionate *ords fell from his lips.
Inez started from his embrace, and for a moment her grief-
stricken face was buried in her hands.
"Victor! Victor Isolani " she cried at last, in tones of
strange fierceness, "unsay those evil words! Let me believe
yo~u still the same,;'--'true to~ thy honor, thyself,. and thy
friend!"-
Drop - drop, fell the water into the marble circle; drop -
drop, go the sands through the hour-glass; and drop -drop,
fall the tears from.the angel who is making the record of human
weakness above.
Yes ! there was an angel near, and it had spoken to Inez ;
had given her power to save herself -to save the man she
loved, in his hour of temptation.
She reached out .her hand, and he held it in his own firm
clasp. Softly the words came now, tenderly and soothingly,
whispered,-
"Vireo, my friend, my brother, this will not do ! Better
to part forever, than know each other false! ",
The struggle was over. She was triumphant now; and per-
haps her victory was acknowledged as not the least gloriously
won, by Him who marks each sorrow of His suffering children.
"Inez," said the Count, as he knelt beside her, and pressed her
hand to his lips, "my saviour, you have made me myself again!
Go, 'forget - forgive! You are Giulian Navarro's; and God
knows he is more worthy to. wear the jewel of your love than
I! Victor Isolani prays God to give to you both happiness
told u !"
There was a tremor in his voice, a plaintive, hopeless sad-
ness, that wrung the heart's core to hear. The youth was all.
gone from his face as he looked up to her.
"And may He keep you, Victor," she wispered, under
the shallow of His wing, and may He send peace and comfort
to your soul!"
She was gone, and he was desolate!
Alas! poor human souls ! Full of earthiness and clay, full
of sin and cunning wickedness, lying in wait to betray us.
Who shall cast the first stone? Oh, saintly Pharisee, undo
thy cloak, and look within, ere the condemn ton of thy brother
is pronounced. "Ye've aiblins no temptation." Take care that
there be naught in thy holy path against which thou shalt
dash thy foot!. It took poor boasting Peter but once the

s

;i                           t4

4


234

'I
I
I.

cok's crwig, to be sent weeping wito                .
and wherefore vant ou            r   ng      tho  t
unto others, it shall be measured untous aga
"Who made the heart,'ti He alone,
Decidedly can try us:   eaoe
$e knows each chord-. its various tone
Each spring --its various bias.
Then at the balance= let's, be mute
We never can adjust it;   "
What's done, we partly may compute,
But know not what's resisted.  '

We are but dust,
measure we mete
n

of late. Dreaming, perhaps, of some one over the waters.
Come, come!" continued Giulian, "let us.go! Inez, when she
returned a few. moments since, with her face white from night-
dew, confessed that the wraith had frightened her into desert-
ing you; and she left you, trying to quiet M iontezuma's
troubled spirit ; and so I was sent to see you safely in."
"Yes, yes, Giulian; let us leave this haunted fountain,"
said the Count, with an effort at cheerfulness, that succeeded
well. " Seu'orita Gonzales deserted me at a fearful moment ;
and I am afraid my terror-stricken eye, and heart will bring
back a meagre report for the Seuorita Altandi. Alh! here they
are now -she and Count Khevenhuller by the window."
Giunan did not notice the strange light in his friend's eye,
his own heart was so - full of gladness ; else he would have be.
lieved that Count Isolani had indeed seen visitors from  the
spirit-land.
"'False faithless knight !" exclaimed the Senorita Altandi,
as they approached; "is it thus my commands are obeyed?
Senorita Inez is found beside the Empress, and you linger or
stroll out again into the garden. .Ah ! there must be penance
and punishment for you both ! Come, our quadrille is form-
ing ! Au revoiri/ Count Khevenhaller, will you be our
vis-a -vis?  Captain Navarro, you ,-doubtless know how to
dispose of yourself," she added, with an arch smile, nodding
towards the adjoining parlor, where sat the Empress and her
ladies.
The dancing went on; but there was more than one who
moved mechanically through the evening, who played her
part in the comic tragedy, whose heart had no sympathy with
the smiles of those around ; to whom, in all the joyous strains
there was only one sad echo that filled the deepest. chambers
of her soul:-
"It might have been, it might have been I"
Inez scarcely quitted Her Majesty's presence until the guests
had departed. She was afraid to trust herself---afraid that
she might lose the power to keep back the hand that-was tug-
ging at her heart-strings.
At last they were all gone, and she was in her chamber
above, alone ! Blessed solitude ! where the sigh of the peni-
-tent, and the prayer of the despairing may go forth unheard,
*save~ by the One into whose ear it is breathed.

Victor Isolani had not know4 h   e
there to-night, beside an open  self       oe and he stood
dead face of his murdered honoepu   re, and ooked upon the
and the jessamnescaerhe.         D.o wn through the ross
within the castle  came thetyus notes of the festive music
within t e ste but to him it seemed abit r mockeryfo
upon his ear, fell only the -dirge-like requie  hisouy, wo
chanting.qsoul was
J  Treading the pebblywalk beside th  f
his poor weak nature for its treachey dto his f ie  disowned
hated and despised himself!o And y       ha fre      w he
manfully in the conflict before, and itae had b ne himself ,
of the hour that had led him to his fallgenius
But he had given her up now..
Sher heart, her love was his, and thagi wp h no   ing tan
at suffered. She was his angel now   n the a  el  alo
siently ithe pathaetishoul
gudehimBSIletyi     h paths of truth. She ad svdte
zoh   Se had conqu2ered, and sowudh.B            tudhe
dare to trust himself again to the tould hetcould he
day after day, and keep the spell of silenceuon h es is  her
lpon his heart ?  No, no; he dare n;e     u sps, the ban
Aust ask the Emperor to give him some other c ut  way in
faith to God and man, lie mnightsay ther duty, where, in
had taught him, "Lead us not in        prayer that se
Victor looked a    a u  ntintoitem       a
ut an angel sat theeby, and  ipere, N    t  ,as emlt
e , and he knew then that his        h    d o  pdad, but sleep.
h art, and would help him in the futur had its od  place in
elf.ro                                 enhisfaithin
l" Isolani!" cried a joyous voice at his side, while a f
rested upon his shoulder, "my de   e     roarienny
h re alone?   The Sedforita Adtand  ' ir fin iromantly
e  ugh for you to fill your engagement  wait einrg  theeighth
qiadrille. You seem to be given .to these  fsof th ighih
ofmoiess    .

CRO W JEWEi.

235

CROWN JEwELS..


236

TI'!

Giulian was in a blissful, happy dream, a
awaken him. Her vows to him were sacr
weak heart, had no right to break them, for
love. She had been deceived. She thought,
lani had come before her, that she loved Giu
as a maiden should, the one who was her
known the truth for months now, and knew,
must not suffer for her error.
Yes, they must forget this love. She and V
tenderly she pitied him, and herself, too ! B
forget ! Giulian, in the long years to com
teach her to be as true and good as himself;
God 'help him!/ he was alone-alone, drifting
sea of misery.'
It was not wrong ; with that agonizing th
but kneel, and pray the merciful Father " to
watch over him, and guidehim to a haven of r

CROWN JEWELS

nd she would not
d, and she, with
this new, strange
until Victor Iso-
lian, -loved him
all; but she had
too, that Giulian
ictor -ah ! how
t still they must
o, would perhaps
)ut the other -
outward upon a
ought she could
care for him, to
ast."

CHAPTER XXVII.
OUNT ISOLIANI did not give his resolution to resign
his position at the palace and leave t e capital, time to
be shaken or changed -did not permit his heart to
plead for mercy. He was afr id to listen to it,-afraid
t extend one favor, lest it should bet ay him again.
The morning after the reception e nng, that had marked
self deeper than all others in his life calendar, he sought the
Imperor's private cabinet, as was his wont.
It was a trial that was before him, that took o small cour-
age to meet; to ask the Emperor, still the dear friend of his-
youth, still the " Maximilian " of old, in spite o his crown, to
sekid him away'; and to be able to give scarcely a shadow of
re son for the request. The Emperor -had given him the posi-
tien as Secretary, that he might keep him near im, and now;
tht he should, ask to give it up ! There had been no falling
off in the friendship between the two since the coming to
Mexico. Count Isolani knew all the pleasures, the hopes and
ambitions, or the perplexities and annoyances, th' t lodged with

23

the Emperor; and Maximilian, in turn, had the key that opened
to him, the chambers of his friend's soul; opened at his bidding
all save one, into which Count Isolani scarcely dared look
himself, and which he trusted he had sealed up now, forever.
Often, after his duties were performed, would the Count
remain with the Emperor, and the two together would go back
to that sunny period, that seemed now so far ,off, when, with
youthful hearts filled with poetic sentiment, rose-colored dreams
and buoyant hopes, they had sailed out from Trieste on their
first voyage, and then over the blue waters of the Mediterranean,
past "old Egina's rock," to where high Hymettus looks upon
the classic plain; and again, in later years, when they stood on
the deck of the Eizabeth, and viewed for the first time the broad
Atlantic, over whose rolling waves they were bearing onward
to the Brazilian shores. All this was pleasure; but for the
present the tie must be broken; he must go away, or he should
prove himself unworthy to stand by Maximilian or by any
honest man's side. To stay here, he knew that he could not
conquer his love for Inez Gonzales. He could not see her day
after day, and know that she loved him, and keep silent. He
must go, until she was Giulian's.
He had finished his writing, and his heart misgave him as
he rose to go. The Emperor still sat by the table, and as he
looked up, and caught sight of the troubled expression that
rested on the Count's face, he exclaimed, -
" Isolani, what has gotten into you of late? You are getting
as mopy and taciturn as an 'owl; I hardly know you for the
friend of old. Don't hurry away this morning, unless you
have engagements to call you. We shall not be interrupted,
and I think we can benefit each other by an hour's interchange
of thought. Is there anything going wrong with you, Isolani,
that I can remedy?"
"No, no, your Highness," - Count Isolani cling to the old
name,--"only I am just turning over in mymni1d petition I
am  going to make," he added, as he sat down again, "which
will seem very strange; but necessity presses- us sometimes
quite to the wall, and leaves but one way to escape."
"What 'is it?" said Maximilian. "Unto the half. of my
kingdom will I grant your requests; only don't ask that I
shall sergd you as a Minister anywhere, for you know there is
no such word as 'parting' between you and me."
4"Ah!l there is a spirit of divination near us," said the
Count, with an effort at cheerfulness. " I have been thinkig

CROWN JEWELS.

11

F
E-
'r      t;
a
:.
~ _
i
.,.
h
i
1
4
F.
f


2 8                 CROW3T JEWELS.
wl at an idler ITam in the field, and I want to tae a new role,
fo a while at least. Will your Majesty permit me enter the
' line,' to join Gen. Meija at Oajaca, where I can see something
of active service ? " In spite -of his assumed arelessness as
he put the request, there was an earnestness abo t his manner
thtt Maximilian quickly discerned.
'Isolani! " he exclaimed, "what does this me n?  Are you
not serving me where youare, as no one else c uld ?  There
are, soldiers enough in the field to take care of  exico. Wait
until, the United States threatens us more, and hen you can
go ut with me, where you have ever been -[by  y side. Un-
less there is some other reason, some positive nec ssity for this
cha  e, recall your.request. I can refuse you  othing; but,
Isolni, I cannot give' you up- easily. When I 1 ok into your
faced and grasp your hand, with its firm pressure, know there
is ohe friend who will be true to death, -it may ot be so with
others about us, -the old German love cannot be rooted-out."
"Your Highness is right," said the Count, wi h deep feel-
ing; "this German heart will beat true to the la t; and there
is not a drop of blood in these veins that I hold to precious to
be shed for the Empress Carlotta and yourself. You have
never yet found me failing, but now -there is a  ecessity for
this petition. I cannot mock my heart, your   ighness, by
holding dip to you its weakness. I blush to ow to you the
only thing kept back in all our years of confi once. It is
a conon story of 'loving too late;' the old chant -
"'Had we never met, and never parted,
We had ne'er been broken-hearted."'
"$ did not think possible that I could be tem ted to love
the betrothed of another, and went on, like the pre-adamite
Soli ,an trusting too much to the power within, ti 1, like him,
the awakening came, and there was not even hope eft behind.
And ow there is nothing left but to join the m ltitude that
crowd the great 'Hall of Eblis 'in the world, an , after the
fashio. of the mourners there, to pray with the ha d upon the
heart \fIr 'forgetfulness."'
Th~ Count paused, and leaned his&amp; head upon his hand. -
"  riend," said Maximilian, almost tenderly,  ,he camne
and stpod by his side, " I see it all! And it is the o ly love of
your life ! God help you!. Time - Time, is a grea physician,
and hps an art to heal all our woes. Yes, Isolani, will help
you keep the vow I know you have setyorlfIwi

CR0 WY JEWELS.

238

give you up now till this shall pass away, but then,-you will
come back?"
"God bless you, my friend, my Emperor," said the Count,
grasping his hand, and standing face to face. "One more favor,
and I have finished. You will take Captain Navarro - he is a
noble{ soldier -in my place.?"
" No one can fill your place, Isolani," said Maximilian, " and
you are to come back when I recall you. Navarro is a gal-
lant soldier, and shall not be forgotten.. When do you desire
to leave?"
"At once -to-morrow, if possible."
"Then I will give you a letter to General Meija. I could not
give you to better keeping. .Come to me here again to-night,
for I think there may be many words of courage and strength
that we haVe left unsaid to each other. 'Do you remember how
we used to comfort each other, and philosophize in those good
old days?  AM   Isolani, we are older men now, and the ,hills
of life' seem not quite so green, and the golden shadows that
crept down the sunny slopes come forward no longer to meet
us; but I think there is manliness enough yet in our hearts,
to help us bid defiance to these giants that meet us on the way.
If we give up, we shall find ourselves bound with cable cords."
Count Isolani had risen to go, but he stopped again long
enough to press the Emperor's hand, and only trusted himself
to say, "I will come to-night ! " and then closed the door behind
him.
Count Isolani was gone, and his presence was missed at Che-
pultepec  missed sorely by one heart that tried in vain to deny
the void it felt ; that tried in vain to think of his nobility and
self-sacrifice without feeling the warm, beatings of love, in the
admiration that was a lawful tribute.
When was this war and strife to end between love and
duty ?  One or the other must yield, and it must be the former.
There must be an end; and Inez hardly dared toconfess the
shudder with which she thought of the event that would make
this loving and dreaming sinful;'--sinful it was. now, but it
would be doubly so when she was Giulian's wife.
Giulian was growing anxious about her ; he said "she was
so silent of late;" and he did not dream of the burden she
bore. But he was so tender and- kind, so noble and true, per-
hiaps he would teach her as his wife to. love him. The other
had gone away to forget her ; it was right ; and she must for-


240

241

get too. She could do it better as Giulian's wife; so at last she
began to listen to his pleadings, and beside the same fountain
in the garden, with the quiet moonlight looking upon them,
just as it had done on the two'who buried thei love there, out
of sight for ever, they believed, Inez promise that with the
New Year she would walk the path with Giulian. She would
not keep his true heart waiting longer ; her dead father's bless-
yng rested upon' their vows, and surely his spit would hover
near them, and keep them from unhappiness in the future.
CHAPTER. XXVIII.
HILE Mexico was fast rising and increasing in
strength and dignity, and overawing. ler enemies, the
war between her mighty neighbors, the Northern and
Southern States of the Republic, hac been kept up
with unchanged determination and unfinching resolve on the
part of -each.
'The'South had seceded from the Federal Union upon the
principle of State Sovereignty, as"she understood it to be em-
bodied in the Constitution. She relied and icted upon the
r onviction, that she was not infringing .by secession, in the
slightest degree, the rights of the Northern section; and she did
ot believe that they would use coercive measures to preserve
Union " that was such, only in name. Though she had
hoped to be permitted to depart in peace, yet when the issue at
rms came, she did not shrink from the conflict, fearful as"it
promised to be; for it took no extraordinary powers of clair-
voyance to foresee the horrors that were to cone. Calling her
sons from every hill and valley, she bade them look to the ban-
ner she held aloft; it was to be a new emble  of liberty to
them, and it must not trail in the dust.
The crisis came; and upon the plains of Vir ia two armies
were drawn up in battle array. The dove of  eace, that had
hovered so long over a prosperous land, was s ,artled with the
(booming of cannon, the clanging of sabres, and he fierce neigh'
ing of the war-horse in battle. It was in the q iet of the July
morn that she took her flight, and1 the strife be an.  '--

"Steel clanging sounds onsteel; helmets are flashed on high ;
blood bursts; and smoke around."  Brave men met there at
Manassas; and it was "Greek to Greek." When the sun was sets
ting amid the smoke of battle, there went up the shout of vic-
tory from the soldiers of the Confederacy ; they had won the day.
But the moon looked down upon the ghastly picture of a blood-
stained field, strewn with dead and dying; together they lay, side
by side, gray jackets and blue ; and the angel of Death watched
beside them both. But the day was won for the South ; and the
success to her arms served perhaps to give undue elation to her
troops, and they began to underrate the skill and prowess of the
enemy.. Southern statesmen, too, in fancy saw the Confederacy
firmly established, recognized by all the world as a nation, and
beginning at once to press onward with giant strides to glory
and to power. Alas ! it was but Hope's dream of the Future!
The defeat of the-Grand Army of the United States at .Manas-
sas, was a thunder peal that startled the whole North into ac-
tion. "West Point veterans overcome ! The invincible army
driven to the gates of the capital itself ! The Rebellion not
crushed at a single blow ! To arms ! to arms ! "
Then, in truth, did it come to the nation that it was War ---
unsparing, unmerciful, devastating War -whose brazen shield
bears the strange and solemn device of a new-made   ave ;
whose tribute is a broken heart; whose triumph is over deso-
late homes ; and whose train is filled with weeping women and
orphaned children, -this was the monster it looked upon, and
to him yielded the sceptre ; and truly he began to reign like a
king. ' Battle succeeded battle; brave men fell, and their lace
were filled again A defeat to the Southern arms in the West
was retrieved by a victory in Virginia, and for a time the scales
of Fate seemed equally balanced. When the "Stars 'and Bars"
crossed the Potomac, and startled thLe quaint old farmers of
Pennsylvania, Southern matrons in Kentucky and Tennessee
trembled at the approach of Yankee cavalry. Weeks, months
and years slipped along, and with neither army did the goddess
of victory take up her fixed abode. Devoted spirits fought and
fell, defending the banner so dear to their hearts and with their
latest breath, commended their country and their comrades to
the God that "judgeth between right and wrong."
In her enthusiasm and firm determination, the 'South at the
beginning of the struggle had not counted the cost unto the
- end,  -had not reflected wether she coud' stand against a
powerful enemy for years; and yet,. whlen darker days came,

I

24&amp;  ROW2 JEWLS                                           'ROWW JEWEfLR.

VDU NT, JE WE.LS


242                 CR0WN TEWELS.
when she found her armies depleted by sicknes and death, she
did not falter, but in great, god-like faith, s uggled on and
hoped on In reviewing that four-years' confli t, which stands
out as an era in the nineteenth century, is t ere one, be it
friend or foe, who will refuse to accord the tri ute of bravery
a  devotion to a people haplessly fallen?  ith every port
bockaded by the -iron-clad steamers of the eneny, whose deadly
cannon threatened destruction to the little barks that now and
then dared their vigilance and gained the open  a; cut off from
all foreign intercourse; compelled to feed, clot e, and arm her
soldiers and her people by her own resources,  as may be sup-
posed, the South permitted no talent to re ain idle. The
proudest uniform of the Southern soldier wa the gray jeans,
that loving hands, perhaps, had woven; and the simple home-
spun dress was seen on beautiful women, who had graced the
most brilliant drawing-rooms of the land. At first, all was
buoyancy and hope. Wives and maidens toiled and prayed,
while husbands and fathers fought and died. Again and again
the ranks ,of the armies were filled from those in reserve;
again and again did the' cry come for "more men."
And thecall was met.  Yes! met by old men, whose locks
were tinged by the frosts of many winters, and by the beardless
boy with the dew of youth upon his cheek. Things were grow-
ing desperate with the Confederacy. The North had the whole
of Europe to which she could look for men and arms ; the
South, but a few impoverished states. Though the nations
across the water wondered and marvelled that she should sus-
tain herself so -nobly; though they applauded the chivalry of
her sons and wept with her over her fallen heroes,- yet they
kept back the words that would have made her a nation; the
hand that could have saved her was not stretched forth.
It had not been the burnings of ambition, not the martial
anthem, "Go where glory waits thee," that brought the South-
ern heart to action, -it was the solemn chanting of a deeper,
holier strain and in the din of battle it was not lost,
"Fight for the green graves of your sires,
God, and your native land !"
But this unequal struggle could not last long. At the be-
gnigof the fourth year of the war, the truth came home,
thtwhen- a soldier fell there was no other to take his place.'
Mothers had seen their Spartan sons, one after another, brought
home on blood-stained shields; and now there were no more to

CROWN JEWELS

go or come. The soldiers were not giants, and despite their
deeds of valor were but human, after all. And then, too, Pom-
pey could not stamp his foot and raise his magic legions.
As the spring of 1865 advanced, the soldiers of the North
drew closer and closer around the devoted country and her
defenders. The Southern army held out, stout and brave; but
the daring raids effected by the Northern cavalry in: the South-
west, destroying powder-mills, factories, store-houses of corn
and cotton, marking their path with desolation and ruin, took
the hope from the heart of the strongest. Starvation looked
the people in the face. Want of arms, and the.facilities with
which to make them destroyed, left the soldiers powerless.
Seeing all these horrors that faced them, and knowing that
it was useless to struggle against such' fearful odds; his wagon
train cut off; his men hemmed in, and in danger of being cut
to pieces by the advancing enemy under General Grant, - the
noble veteran commander of the Confederate forces in Virginia,
ROBERT E. LEE, whose gray hairs might droop beneath the
weight of glory that rests upon them, after holding a council
of war with his officers, determined upon an honorable sur-
render,; and upon the ninth of April, 1865, the two armies
were drawn forth upon the plains, and for the last time the
sunlight fell upon the uplifted bayonets of the Southern sol-
diers.
If - the spirits of Caesar, of Bonaparte, of Washington, of
Albert Sidney, Johnson, and Stonewall Jackson, military
heroes, ancient and modern, were permitted to look down upon
that scene at Appomattox Court-house, where, facing each
other, stood the conqueror and the conquered: the one generous,
though victorious; the other proud, though failing - when the
sword of the hero was returned from the hand of the victor,
and he was told that "he was worthy to wear it," did not the
echo come from their spirit voices, " Well done, good and
faithful servant"?  Aye, well done, living heroes and fallen
martyrs . .
And so the star of the "Confederate States of America"
sank beneath the horizon, and it was proclaimed a "1Lost
Cause."  Confederate banners, that had perhaps- ofttimes
waved in triumph, were folded. Silently, tenderly, and tear-
fully they were laid away, and in Memory's garden was
p anted a shaft, enduring as Time itself, towering above all
other stones of record, and. graven simply, "JBlium fuit /"
and mourning hearts each year make pilgrimage to this shrine,

243

!
Y+ . , ,


CROW JEWELS               245

and offer there, the libation of tears and sighs, over hopes
buried beneath.
The 24th of April, each year is observed as a " memorial day "
to the Confederate dead throughout the entire South, and a,
tribute of wreaths, garlands, and flowers is placed upon the
grave of every Southern soldier. - - -.-
We measure centuries by decades, into which fall events
both great and small. One after another they pass away, and
men, empires, and kingdoms are buried with them. The years
stretching from  1860 to 1870 are likely to form an epoch,
that shall stand out in bold relief in the record of the nine-
teenth century, as giving birth on the American continent, to.
two new governments, which at first seemed to bask alike in the
smiles of fortune.
A mysterious turning of the balances:-'one went down, as we
have seen; "the o.other -the Empire of Mexico "'-its for-
tunes the reader is still following.
Perhaps there is not a more appropriate occasion offered for
an historic, political, and moral retrospection than the funeral
oration of a fallen government. When the fury of the storm.
is past, those that stand upon the beach can see the frowning
reefs, the whirling maelstrom, that drove the gallant ship
asunder ; and perhaps they think it well there should be a
light in future on the rocky height, that shall be seen, even amid
the blackness of the midnight tempest, by the tossing bark.
Let the statesmen of the United States build now that light-
house, for the Ship of State is not yet saved.
Let them learn from the old Romans, that the greatness of a
country must be founded upon national virtue; for they find
that the problem, as to'which is "the best and most enduring
form of government," which the Republic of the United States
claimed to have answered, is still unsolved. Rousseau gave to
the nations a beautiful system, yet none have been able to put
it in practice: "Trouver une forme d'association par laquelle
chacun s'unissent a tous, n'obeisse pourtant qu'7t lui-meme et reste
aussi qu'auparavant." *  And then, too, the poet, has set an
easier method and an easier answer :
"For forms of government, let fools contest ;
Whatever is best administered is best."
And we are inclined to fall into the sentiment of the couplet
* "Find a form of society according to which each one uniting himself into the whole,
~han obey himself only, and remain free as before."

in viewing the political status of the kingdoms of the earth, in
the nineteenth century.
When the Confederacy fell, the shout went up, " that the
Union was restored;" but the South calls to the shades of the
departed patriots to bear witness to the mockery of the words.
She laid down her arms ipn true faith, yet she retained her
rights as immutable. She would not see her sons made "hewers
of wood and drawers of water; " and so she stood in silence,
with the bayonet at her breast, and wondered where was the
truth in the words that rang out, " The Union is restored ! "
In spite of the oppression, the prejudice and passion, the
usurpation of power, that every day shakes the Government to
its foundation, yet true, hearts -listen to the silent teachings
of reason. They believe that God has pronounced the destiny
of the United States; it is to be a Union. They believe that the
day of scourging is to pass ; that the sea of politics, which is
h       now seething and foaming in surging billows, must be quieted
at the bidding of a master-spirit, whose command, " Peace ! be
still," shall lull the waves to rest. A second Washington must
come. All patriots are not gone from us, we trust. To do away
with sectional distinctions, to still the clamor for party rights
and benefits, and to inculcate in the hearts of the people the
great precept, "A kingdom divided against itself must fall," -
this must be done before, in truth, the shout may go up, "A
Union restored, -glorious and prosperous!"    "But is this
ever to be ?"  So ask they who look with trembling at the
Cimmerian darkness of the political-sky, where glimmers no ray
of roseate light to herald the coming of the day. In answer,
we remember that,
"Truth crushed to earth will riseagain,
The eternal years of God are hers."
And in the meantime, in the midst of anarchy, strife, and
schism, the patriot, whose voice is lost in the tumult, can but
hug to his heart the memory of those honest forefathers, who,
hoping against everything, while right was their. bulwark of
defence, at last were victorious. Let him remember this, and
lift up his voice again; for though the South has no influence
in the council of the nations, though she is shut 'out from the
legislative halls, let her continue to cry aloud against the
usurpation of the rights of the nation, for the "distant echoes
of Liberty will send a thrill even through the hearts of her
murderers."

244             Q.RO yPN JEWELS,


246

CR0 WIT JEWELS.

There is a pillar of cloud by day, and of    re by night, to
guide the people if they will but look to it.  he Constitution
of the United States is unchangeable ; is all-su  cient and com-
plete. Our Country, our history, bears no record of the occasion'
when it was found wanting in power to meet an emergency.
That men may set it aside, or soi-disant statesmen may attempt
to amend it, does not reflect upon it; though' the waves of
political strife lash against it in fury, it will b in vain ; they
will at last roll in quiet, at the base of an A arat, on which
rests this Ark of American hope and greatness.
But we have left the April sun of 1865 looking upon the
grave of the Confederacy. In sadness and great grief had her
defenders seen her buried, looked abroad upon their ruined
country, and had all gone away to desolate homes. Among
the many who had striven for the South, there were some who
felt, in the anguish of their hearts, that they could not see
their beautiful land, once so full of glory, clad in sackcloth
and ashes, mourning like Rachel of Rama ; they felt that
voluntary exile, bitter though it was, would be preferable to
seeing strangers, that felt- no grief; mocking them in their
despair. To these, Mexico, so full of adventure and enterprise,
lthe young empire, rich in energy and resource, a d the unusual
inducements of the noble young Emperor Maxinilian to induce
immigration, seemed to offer a home, and th therward they
turned their faces ; and as they bade adieu o their loved
South, and floated over the waters of the Gulf of Mexico, they
whispered to their stricken hearts,
"Let Fate do her worst: there are relics of joy,
Bright dreams of the past, she cannot destroy ;
-  They come in the night-time of sorrow and careI
And bring back the features that joy used to wear.
Like the vase, in which roses have once been distiled,
You may break, you may shatter the vase, if you will;
But the scent of the roses will hang round it still."

I

CROWN JEWELS.

247

CHAPTER XXIX.

N a private apartment of the San Carlos Hotel, at the
Mexican capital, was gathered a little assemblage, rep-
resentatives of the late Confederacy. Men, they were
a who, in the forum and on the field, had right stanchly
and boldly defended their country, and who, now that words
and swords had proven alike of no avail, had journeyed to
Mexico, a land rich in promise of future greatness, and for the
present blessed with a ruler who, though young in years, seemed
possessed of the wisdom and judgment of an experienced mon-
arch.
These men had come hither seeking a home; they had started
in life, as it were afresh, bearing within brave, manly hearts,
that would not shrink from difficulties and privations. - They
would, if need be, found a colony in the deep recess of the for-
est, or the wildest jungle-haunt, so that they might be per-
mitted to call the work' of their hands their own, and them-
selves freemen. At even-tide, resting beneath the shade of
their own vine and fig-tree, they could breathe the air of free-
dom; and though in the stillness of the twilight the lonely notes
of the whip-poor-will, or the soft-toned strainsof the Philomela,
would call up sad memories of what "mighthave been for their
country," yet there would be comfort in the reflection that they
would be spared the sight of her future suffering.
No, no !  They could not linger weeping beside the tomb;
or the whole South was one vast sepulchral urn, in which
rested the sacred ashes of her Spartan sons. Let others who
were gifted with greater powers of endurance, who could look to
the future with faith, who could believe inthe resurrection of
liberty, let them 'stay as silent watchers; but they could not
witness the ghoul-like revel of army officials and traitorous sons
over the corpse of the motherland.
They did not love their country less because they had left
her. Every spot of ground from the Potomac to the Rio Grande,
was dear to their hearts; and then they had not gone entirely:
there was a singing to the southern clime; they were in Mexico,
just over the river,- where the gentle breeze, laden with the
aromatic sweetness of the orange-groves, might bear onward a

i
k ,-
r -
T .
l
i
.s,


t
-
'
i
f
r
s


248                 CRoWN JEWELS.
greeting to the brethren left behind; - might sayto them, when
troubles grew too heavy, to " come and join them in their new
homes.
It was with such feeling animating their earts that each
man looked into the other's face, at the co ference on that
August morning.
The windows of the room in which they met, looked down
upon a stone-paved street, and it was a strange sight to those
ew Confederate soldiers who stood gazing out, to see the squads
pf mounted horsemen, whose bright uniforms blazed in the
hun, as they cast a glance up and caught sight of tlhe gray
jackets, touch their hats in respect as they passed, and shout
half aloud; "Vive la Confederacy ! " and it wa a sad sigh that
same from their hearts as .,they turned in t listen to their
leaders, who had begun the business of the mo ning.
In a large arm-chair, near "a table covered  ith green baize
that occupied the centre of the room, was tha veteran officer,
wh o never laid aside his uniform,-- General S erling Price, of
issouri. His hair, tinged with gray, lay with careless grace
pon the open forehead ; and the deep lines in he bronzed face
tld of the same spirit still within, that made the man ever a
ero.
On his right was one who, in the palmy days of the "old'
olunteer State," had been pointed to, by the Tennesseans with
p ;de as their leader; - one, who had trod the granite halls in
their capital in the proud consciousness of rectitude and ability;
whose resistless eloquence, whether employed  political can-
vas- clashing swords with ambitious party opponents, or de-
liveringthe graceful holiday address, abound ng in rhetorical
fi ures and metaphorical beauties, always he d the audience
sell-bound. The star of Isham G. Harris, tho gh obscured by
t e clouds of to-day, has not yet set; the hour will come again
when he shall be needed.
Occupying seats about the table, were other whose familiar
n mes call up their historic deeds,- Governor  lien of Louisi-
a  , Governor Reynolds of Missouri, Genera Magruder, and
la t though not least,- Lieutenant Maury, o naval renown.
A ound them were grouped the soldiers, in their old gray
ur iforms, who had followed their leaders (acting as escort) to this
new country ; and who, the moment before, h d tur ed a way
from the windows to listenn to the speakers.
IRising from his seat, Governor Harris was te frst to comn-
mand their attention'.

CROWN JEWEL&amp;

249

"Gentlemen, said he, " we haveat last reached. our destin.
ation. We are in the City of Mexico; and the time has come when
we are to leave off planning, and go to working for our future.
We came here to seek homes for the families we have left be-.
hind. We' are one ; our sympathies are one, and our interests
the same. There must, therefore, be- no formality, no false
reticence, in this our first meeting. The business before us is
the same. The gracious young Emperor here, offers unusual
facilities to emigrants, and though we have not yet seen his
Majesty, we cannot doubt his sincerity. It is for-us, gentlemen,
to determine upon the mode in which to commence action. It
is necessary for us; to remember, that in order to have strength
we must work together. Our purpose is to found, and iden-
tify if possible, an American colony ; to settle in some fertile
district, and to invite all true hard-working men in the South
who feel inclined, to join us. Let us therefore, this morning,
draft our resolutions, set forth our plans, and appoint a. com-
mittee to submit them to his gracious Majesty, the Emperor,
for approval and endorsement. Let us hear, gentlemen, your
individual views upon the subject in which all are so deeply
interested."
General Price was the next to .speak, and he set forth his
ideas in a brief, yet pointed, manner.
".While we heartily concur in the sentiments of our brother,"
said he, "it suggests itself to me, that perhaps the best and
surest plan would be to see his Majesty first, and to learn the
feelings of the,Emperor towards us from himself in person, be-
fore going any further. Doubtless he will greatly facilitate our
purposes by his advice; and it would be well enough to send
our petition to-day, requesting an audience at the palace, at as
early a date as possible."
Acting upon this suggestion, the petition was at once drawn
up, and sent to the Grand Chamberlain at the palace, and the
conference of the morning ended.
The Court was at Chepultepec, but the Emperor signified,
through a polite note from his Secretary, the pleasure it would
give him to receive the ' gentlemen from the South, at the
national palace in the city the next day.
The following morning, at the appointed hour, the committee,
which consisted of the gentlemen before named repaired to the
palace, and were shown into the spacious and elegant audience-
chamber, which had been fitted up, when the Emper-or
first came, to Mexico, as a kind of throne-room. The long
11*

H


j50                 CR0 WN JEWELS.
4oor was neatly inlaid with polished oak, and the walls were
covered with crimson silk damask, on whic  at intervals was
richly embroidered in gold, the Mexican coat of arms, and the
Emperor's motto, "Equidad enjustia."
The Emperor and Empress were seated on  sofa, at one side.
year the former was the Minister of State, Ramirez ; and on the
left of the Empress was.Rabeles, Minister of Fomento.*,
As the marshal of the household announced by name as
hey entered, each member of the committee, the Emperor, ris-
g, extended his hand, and in turn, presented each to the
impress, who greeted them with a kindly wcrd of welcome.
"Gentlemen," said Maximilian, "I cann t express to you
the very great pleasure it gives us to see y:u in our capital.
Though you come hither, as you think, strangers, you are not
nknown. The devotion, the truth, and the fidelity of the
ons of the Confederacy, entitle them to reg rd wherever they
o. We, of Mexico, are glad to be able to o er to you a home
among us. We want you; we want as man good, true men as
ill come, and we will bid them welcome.  f our young Em-
ire can ofer you inducements sufficiently strong to cause you,
to cast lot with us, be assured that nothin  shall be left un-
one, to promote your interest."
As the Emperor spoke English too tinidly for general
nse, these gracious words were given in his Sative German, the
Empress translating them, when he had finis ed.
" Your Majesty," said Governor Harris, r sing, as he replied
a voice half-choked with grateful emoti n, "JI thank you
a the name of my companions, as well as or myself, for this.
1 indly greeting. It does indeed, take. away the sting of exile,
he bitterness of memory, to feel that the cause which we shall
never cease to love, though it may fail always to elicit sym.
pathy, yet forever commands respect."S
"Your Majesty has offered, not only to he few, who have
ade their way to your capital, but to hundreds of our coun-
trymen who may lose all save honor, a home among your
people ; and for it we feel deeply grateful. It is our desire to
reain in Mexico. We come as pioneers for others who, should
7e mbe successful, will follow. We come, your Majesty, to labor .
honest men; to go into the depths of the orest, and with our
Swn hands to hew the timber that gall shelter us from the
ews of heaven. The time with us -na , with the whole
-* Corresponding to Minister of the Ir.t rir. .

CROW]Y JEWELS.

South  'is past, when legislative halls are to ring with the voices
of orators and statesmen. Our nationality, our pride of country,
is gone; and now it is the sound of the axe, wielded by the
sinewy arm, that is our task ; to build a new temple, where we
may worship and live in peace.
 I have said this, your Majesty," continued the speaker,
"that our purpose in coming to the Empire of Mexico night
be understood and appreciated; that it might be known that
we do not come -as brokendown warriors or statesmen, to
seek positions as hangers-on or attaches of a new government;
but we do come as honest men, who desire to live by the " sweat
of the brow ; " who ask no favors, no honors from the world ;
who simply desire a -home, where they may enjoy liberty and
quietude; which blessings, your Majesty, none can appreciate
properly, until they feel their loss."
As Governor Harris finished these impressive and out-
spoken utterances of a brave heart, a smile, half sad with sym-
pathy, flitted across the face of the beautiful Empress. She
rose, and extended her hand to the speaker.
"Your Majesty," said she, turning to the Emperor, " we do
indeed honor the cause which had such men enlisted under its
banner; and these gentlemen may be assured- of our deepest
,sympathy in their misfortune. His Majesty," she added, ad-
dressing herself with a bright smile to the Commissioners, "is
waiting to aid you. We have sorely felt the need of the creative
principle in Mexico;--those who understand that it is national
institutions, and not speeches, that make a country great."
"Our fair Empress is right," said the Emperor, "as indeed
she always is. The plan of an American colony has been our
favorite scheme since the fall of the Confederacy; and we shall
be well pleased to see it on the road to fulfilment. - The har-
vest in Mexico is plentiful, but the laborers are few. You,
gentlemen, are doubtless as well acquainted with the history of
this nation as myself, and can understand that the position of
its ruler is no sinecure. The Empress Carlotta has' labored
with me, since our first arrival, to build up here such a govern-
ment as Mexico deserves,- Civilization is a word of broad sig-
nificance, and would embody in itself, perhaps, ogr great hope
and purpose for our country, - a struggle to wake up all the
idlers; to rouse the ambition and patriotism of every man,
woman, and child in the Empire; to establish a publictidentity
and a community of' interests,,that shall make each onie feel he
has hi8 part to perform that hg' actions Are $rikutgry to the

25X


C

25                  CROWN JEWELS.
gr at stream of industry that shall fertilize the whole land.
W knew that the way for this to be accomp shed, was not to
iss e laws,- against which, perhaps, the perv rseness of human
na ure would lead the people to rebel, -bu to appeal to the,
motive power ; to create in the mind the ye ring desire for
ad ancement and progression. History taught us long ago,
that all developments of the internal man tend to the profit of
so iety. . We have been endeavoring, during the year past, to
sow good seed in the hearts of our people; first, by religious
an  educational influences, and then by fostering a love of lit-
er ture and science, together with all that is b autiful in nature
and art. The reward may not come to this generation, but we
sh 11 be content, if the harvest comes at last. We have ex-
pr ssed ourselves thus to you, gentlemen, knowing that if you
remain with us, we shall be allies in this gveat work. And
now to the consideration of your colonial plans. We have-Gov-
ergment lands lying open in the different districts and depart-
m nts, the situation of which can be given you by Sei or
Rbeles. Perhaps the most expeditious plan would be, for you
to select from your own number a committee to visit the dif-
fe ent departments; to investigate, examine, and survey the
la ds, and when a site is found, where climate, soil,, and pro-
d ctions are best suited for your colony, you may rely upon the
I perial support and protection.'"
Lieutenant Maury was at once, mentioned as the chief com-
nmissioner for this task of surveying ; and the minor points of
the undertaking were discussed between the Emperor and him-
sdlf, while the EImpress gave her attention to the others. The
two ministers, who had hitherto kept silent, now took a lively
psrt in the conversation. The Empress, who was unsurpassed
in ready wit and sprightliness of mind, by her delicate tact
dispelled all restraint, and the interview assumed an easy,
embarrassed tone.
An hour passed in pleasant exchange of sentiment; and the
party had almost forgotten they were in the presence of royalty,
nd therefore amenable to court etiquette.
The solemn convent bells renfinded them th y had struck the
h ur thrice since they had entered the palace and so they rose
Once to leave. The Empress stopped then for a moment
I cannot forbear," said she, "making one request, and grati-
fyig a desire I have long felt. Though we have been near

CRO WY JEWELS.

253

neighbor to the Confederate States for many months, yet I
have never seen a bill issued by their Government."
Anticipating her Majesty's request, General Price had taken
from his breast a little package, and dropping the wrapping
that enfolded it, unfurled a tiny silk Confederate flag.     From
its folds fell one of those bills, issued with so much faith and
hope in the ability to redeem the promise it bore upon its face.
" Your Majesty," said the old General, as he handed the scrap
of paper to her, "anything that is connected with the Confed-
eracy is dear to my heart, and that little waif is a precious
souvenir. I ask no worthier shroud than this uniform of un-
pretending gray ; and as the scars on this well-nigh worn-out
form were received in the service of the South; may her ban-
ner be its winding-sheet."
The tears stood in the old hero's eyes as he looked at
the Empress; who, passing the bill, which promised to pay to
the bearer, "with the seal of the Confederate States, one hun-
dred dollars on demand at Richmond," turned to the General
and Lieutenant Maury,- who stood by his side, and said, in a
voice full of sympathy and feeling:
"We look upon these relics as upon mementos of departed
friends, with loving, saddened tenderness; yet with unmurmur-
ing resignation to a fiat, that it is beyond our power to contro-
vert."
"And' yet," replied     Lieutenant Maury, "we may hang
around these memories immortelles, that to us are ever fragrant.
Even this poor Confederate bill, naught now, save an empty
reminder of what has been, is invested by the poet's fancy with
an eloquence that touches the heart. Your Majesty has never
heard the beautiful verses that were found inscribed upon the
back of one of these bills, after the fall of our Government?
"'Representing nothing on God's earth now,
And naught in the water below it,
As a pledge of the nation that's dead and gone,
Keep it, dear friend, and show it.
Show it to those who will lend an ear
To the tale this paper can tell,
Of liberty born, of the patriot's dream,
Of the storm-cradled nation that fell.
Toopoor to possess the precious ore,
And too much of a stranger to borrow,
We issued to-day a promise to pay,
And hoped to redeem on the morrow.
The days rolled on, and weeks became years,
But our coffers were empty still;
Coin was so rare, that the treasury quaked
Uf a dollar should drop in the till.

i


CR0 WETY JEWELS.

But the faith that was in u was strong ind ed,
"  !              And our poverty well discerned;
And these little checks represented the pay,
That our suffering volunteers earned.
We knew it had hardly &amp;value in gold,
Yet as gold our soldiers received it ;
It gazed on our eyes with a promise to pay,
And each patriot soldier believed it.
But our boys thought little of price or pay,
Or bills that were overdue ;
We knew if it bought us bread to-day,
'Twas all our poor country could do.
Keep it; it tells our history o'er,
From the birth of its dream to the last;
Modest, and born of the angel Hope,
Like the hope of success, it passed.'
Truly, ' vanished hopes    ' said the speaker, sadly, as he
finished the recital.
The Empress had listened with .deep interest to the touch-
Ong requiem; and the feeling silence that followed was broken
only by the adieux of those who were tak'g leave. As if
moved by sudden impulse, as Carlotta extended her hand to
ieutenant Maury, she exclaimed:
"If Mexico can give homes to such a people, bid them
come to us !   And, gentlemen, again let us say, do not hesitate
to .apply to us, for any assistance it may be in our power to
render you !"
" And, in leaving," replied Lieutenant Maury, "we must crave
your Majesties' pardon for dwelling so much upon our past; our
hope lies now in the future ! "
After. this interview with the Emperor and Empress, the
colonists lost no time in making preparations and plans for a
home for the loved ones who had been left behind, and who
Were waiting to come to them.
The decree of September 5, 1865, for the encouragement and
establishment of American colonization in Mexico was drafted
nd published, with the cordial approval and hearty endorsement
pf the Emperor; and soon after, his Majesty appointed Lieu-
tenant Maury chief commissioner of colonization, placing him
kt the head of the bureau of colonization at the capital. General
Price, Governor Harris, and Judge Perkins were also appointed
commissioners, with instructions to examine the colonial lands
in the different States, and report upon the soil, climate, and
production; the object being to find 1that best suited to Ameri-
pau residents.                       '.                      .

r

Assisted by General Joseph Shelby, of Missouri, and followed
by most of the soldiers who had come with them, the coinmis-
sioners visited the different departments ; and, after a careful
consideration of all points bearing on the success of their colony,
decided to settle in the Department of Vera Cruz, near the city
of Cordova.
It was now necessary that the lands in that district, granted
to them by the Emperor, should be surveyed, and the plan of
their city laid out. This task fell to General Magruder ; and
being quickly accomplished, the emigrants went to work in
earnest.
The site for their city,. which, in compliment to the Empress,
was to be called "Carlotta," was a beautiful eminence on the
banks of the little river Seco, only a few miles from Cordova,
and overlooked, in the distance, by the snow-capped heights
of Orizaba.
A forest of mango, mahogany, orange, and lemon trees was
to be cleared away; but the brave hearts that rested beneath a
simple sheet of canvas, upon that wintry December night,
when first the colonists slept within the confines marked
out for their future city, were not daunted at the prospect be-
fore them. They rose up with the morning sun, day after day,
and went to their labor, nerved 'with doubled strength, when
they remembered that this was to be the home they had prom-
ised to those left behind. Time and labor accomplishes all
things.. As the weeks went by, the forest disappeared, and rude
huts lifted their heads here and there ; and soon these, too, gave
place to dwellings offering more comfort, and the plain was
dotted with houses; for the families of the colonists had come
out, and others, English and American emigrants, had joined
them, until in the circumference of five miles or more were
thirty or forty households; the little village, which had now
begun to assume the dignity of municipal authorities, being the
nucleus, the haciendas or farms, giving promise of a rich harvest
from the coffee-trees and orange-groves upon which the owners
expended their care.
The hooded face of the distant mountain looked down with
loving, patronizing care upon the little colony-looked, perhaps,
with tender regret; for, with its head soaring amid the clouds,
it doubtless saw beyond the present, and knew that all this
would be naught-; that the time would come when "GCarlotta"
would be a "deserted village," and not a human voice should
be heard in those homes now filled with joy and laughte !

CR0    JEWELS.

"


2RowN .JEWE4                                      R

CHAPTER XXX.

 IE summer had passed, and the Empress set out for a,
. tour, during the autumn months, through jhe southern
provinces. Matters of state importance prevented the
Emperor's accompanying her Majesty, and so she was
attended by her maid of honor, Senorita Gonzales ; Senor
Ramirez, Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Belgian and Spanish
Mniisters, and an escort of army officers.
The excursion, at that delightful Indian-summer season, when
n ture wore her. Joseph's robe - and received, ,as t e party was
e erywhere, in the cities and villages of the different States with
the wildest enthusiasm - was filled with pleasure. There was
no place visited, but the Empress, like an angel of mercy, left
sone token of love and beneficence behind. Hospitals, schools,
all public charitable institutions, had tangible proof of her Maj-
esty's goodness, in the deep interest she manifested in their
success, and the large sums donated from her own income for
their sustenance. Everywhere, Carlotta won the idolatrous love
of the people ; and as she passed on her journey through the
country, it was told with delight by the poor Indians, who had
been so long strangers to kindness and courtesy fr m Mexican
rulers, that she did not disdain, when occasion presented, to
stop at their humble dwellings and accept their simple hospi-
ta ity; and in their hearts, they named her the "W ite Dove "
of Peace and }Happiness.-
It was late in December, almost the Christmas time, when
tht Empress reached the capital on her return, an communi-
cated the gratifying and satisfactory account of the prosperity'
and good, condition of the States she had visited.
The Emperor had been at thi National Palace during the
E  press's absence; and when she returned, they decided to re-
main with the court in the city, for some weeks, before returning
to Chepultepec..
There was an additional cause to give -festivity t, the holi-
days; Inez had consented that her marriage with Giuian should
tage place on the second day of the new year; and there was to
be a grand reception at the palace, though the cerem ny was to
be performed at the cathedral. The Emperor and. Empress
took the deepest interest in the, event, which was to crown the'

happiness of the two. But Sorrow always follows in the foot.
steps of joy; and in the midst of their planning, lifted her hand
to dash all their pleasure. Her stroke fell now upon the Em-
press, whose heart received a heavy blow in the crushing intel-
ligence that she was left an orphan. King Leopold, the wise,
just ruler of Belgium, breathed his last on the 9th of December,
and had been laid away to rest, full,%of years and crowned with
honors.
Early in life, Carlotta had been deprived pf the loving care
of a mother, and from that period, her little girlhood, to her
marriage, it had been a careful father's hand that had watched
and guided her footsteps. He was the one who had developed
all her powers, cultivated her judgment and reasoning abilities.
He had taught her much of human nature, and had made her
a true, sound-thinking woman; the generous, careful Em-
press; the devoted, self-sacrificing wife she was: for the princi-
ples inculcated in youth, the good seed sown then, had not been
forgotten or choked out by the world, but in Mexico were bear-
ing fruit, were giving food to thousands of starving minds and
hearts.
But King Leopold had paid the last debt; he was gone, with
all his goodness and wisdom, and the people of the earth would
see him no more !
The Mexican Court went into mourning; there was a gloom
cast over the whole palace. The Emperor and Empress wo1et
sad, grief-stricken countenances, for it was a heavy loss to them
both.
The marriage, of course, was postponed for a month, when it
would still occur at the Cathedral; only the reception at tho
palace would not be held.
As the Emperor passed as much time as he could command
from his duties, with the Empress in these days of affliction,
Inez found herself able to be at her uncle's, with Afita and
Giulian, much oftener than before.
Anita had grown so quiet and sad that Inez reproached her-
self for leaving her ; and determined, after her marriage with
Giulian, to give up her position near the Empress, and return
to her old way of living.
It lacked but a few days of the new year. Christmas had
passed; and the day after, the Emperor, desiring to send im-
portant dispatches to the commander at Puebla by some trusty
officer, selected Giulian for the mission; and, provided with a
safe escort, he prepared to leave at dawn on the following day.

25%

256

C. 0 WN JEWELS.


58-                CROWN JEWELS.
twas the evening before his dep rture, and h stood with
Inez in the corridor, overlooking the court-yard at her uncle's
home.
The evening shades were gathering about them, and Giulian
lingered at his parting. The mists were rising fro  the foun-
fain below; and around, the dusky haze of twilight was throw-
ing the stone walls and the short pillars of the corridor into
hadow.
"Inez," said Giulian, taking her hand in his, "why do I
Enger so to-night ? You have grown so dear to me of late, that
even to say 'adieu' for a day costs a sigh ! Yo  remember,
Inez, those noble words of Andromache, at her arting with
Hector-' Thou, Hector, art to me - father, moth r, brother -
allt!' They come up to me, my own, always wiih your face.
'Let me be worthy of her !' is my prayer, night and day. Do
you know I have told Isolani, long ago, that it w s too much
happiness for me, that you should be mine ; an even now I
tremble lest something should take you from md. But could
anything now, Inez, come, that we know not of, apd take your
love away from me; -- do you give it all to me, I, ez ? Are you
content to walk with me here? aye, and up there , too?" said
he, pointing upward. "Mine here, and in the world to come,
too? "
Oh! if he only knew the bitterness 'that his prds brought
to her heart, the pain that the fulness of his love gave her !
She would be his here, but up there, -in heaven, ould not the
true marriage come ?  Giulian was waiting for her answer.
Why could she not prize this jewel that he offe-ed her?  It
was a jewel, a crystal, of untold value ; for it was he first, true,
abiding love of a noble man.
" Inez ! " said Giulian, softly, "I am waiting  Spy to me
only once, 'Giulian, I am happy!'
Could she not say it ? Was it not happiness e ough for her
that she had made him so?
"'Giulian," she said, smiling half sadly, "wher is the crown-
ing jewel of -trust,--hidden in your nature ? 'Perfect -love
casteth out fear.' We shall be happy together ; is not that
enough ?"
" True love is like the grave that cries 'give, give !'" pleaded
the lover. " But I will not weary you with this (restless heart.
Let. me whisper once .more ' you are my all,? and then -
Adieu ! "
He pressed her to his heart, a long kiss upon her brow

CROWN JEWELS.

259

and then, turning to go down the little steps into the court-
yard, stopped a'moment longer, to whisper,;-
"I shall be with you on the New Year's morn; until then,
your prayers for me !
It was the closing evening of the year. At the palace there
was a little circle gathered in the Empress's parlor ; and as the
wind whistled round the corner without, and then swept over
the Plaza, they drew nearer together, and seemed to catch a feel-
ing of comfort, and a spirit of thankfulness from their luxurious
surroundings.
The Emperor and Empress sat a little apart, conversing with
the Austrian and Belgian Ministers ; while the Countess Zichy
had gathered the other members of the household about her ;
and she and Madame Del Barrio, a lady of honor, recently ap-
pointed, were entertaining them with old German legends, and
Mexican superstitions.
Inez sat on a little sofa near the Countess, listening, half to
the marvellous stories, and half heeding the whispered com-
ments of Count Ducroix, a lively young French officer who
sat by her side. But, though she seemed to give attention to
those around her, her thoughts would wander away from the
little parlor, with every echo of the wind without, and make
their way over the lonely plains that stretched out between the
capital and Puebla; for she knew that, true to his promise,
Giulian was hastening through this night-wind wild, to be in,
to greet her with a "happy New Year ! "
As she thought of the Black Forest through which she knew
his way brought him, dark, dismal, and dreary, haunted by the
phantom spectres of the murdered travellers that fell in scores
with every moon, victims to the rapacity of the banditti who made
their homes in the gloomy caverns of the mountain side, and
nightly came down on the unprotected, like.the "wolf on the.
fold," a strange, apprehensive, nervous feeling for Giulian's
safety, took possession of her mind. With that gift of presci-
ence,--mysterious, yet rarely failing to be the peculiar guide of
woman, --she seemed to feel that there was a "shadow of coming
evil " creeping tower rds her, and whispering the name of her be-
trothed, as the one chosen for distress or death. It could not
be, that he was not to pass the forest in safety ; for his escort
was strong and true, and there was nothing to fear with them
near him. And yet, her excited fancy, worked upon by baseless
fears, brought before her the terrible picture of Giulian lying

,, .
, , t


260

CROWN JEWELS.

dead and alone, and the features of the murderer that bent over
him were strangely like those of Juan Gonzales.
Juan, Inez knew, had been near the City of Mexico months
ago; but, as she had heard nothing of him since that strange
meeting in the early spring-time, she hoped that he had at last
left them in peace; and yet to-night, the reme brance of his
vindictive words, that he shaped into a solemn  vow, at their
parting long ago, at Querataro, that he would ut " the sword
between Giulian Navarro, and herself," came to her as'a fearful
reality. If he had heard of their approaching marriage, he
would try to perform that vow ; and Inez thought he was such
a faithful servant of the Prince of Darkness, hat she almost
believed he was invested with supernatural power to execute
his fiendish plans.
" Senorita Inez, you are not listening -you are not listen-
ing," whispered Count Ducroix.. "We shall have to fine you
for contempt' of these august personages !"
Just at this moment, the Countess Zichy declared that, "she
had indulged in this child's play quite long enough, and her
budget of legends was exhausted."
"4No, no ! 'one more ! " cried Count Ducroix. " We are ex-
cusable on New Year's Eve. Give us something to finish on,
- perfectly frightful, -after the fashion of 'The Spectre Bride-
groom !'
" Ah!" siid the Emperor, who had come towards them just,
in time to catch the Count's words, "something that shall make
each particular hair stand on end ! Countess, Madame del
Barrio and yourself are entitled to a new rank. We .shall have
to decorate you with the 'Order of Scheherazade -the Queen
of Story-tell rs,' and commend you to all unfortunates who suffer
from ennui /"
The ladies received their new honor most graciously; but, in
spite of the ,nited entreaties of the Empress, and the two Minis-
ters, who h d now come up, they could not risk losing their
reputation by finishing with a poor story ; and the best had
already been told.
" Then," aid the Emperor, "since you both are implacable,"
we throw ourselves upon Senorita Gonzales' tender mercies.
Count Zich , let us have the harp, and Senorita Inez will give
us a New Y'ar's chant ! Ah ! if we only had Count Isolani and
Captain Na arro here to-night, this would be pleasure!
The Emp ror had touched a chord in Inez'is heart, that vi--
brated and t grilled with exquisite pain. They were both away;

CRO WNV JEWELS.                     261
the one she might never see again; and yet there was a feeling
that if she could see him once again, before there was a barrier
between them, that it would be easier for her to walk in the toil
some path of duty. And then, there was this strange, fearfully
impressive feeling, that there was some danger threatening Giu-
lian, that she tried in vain to shake off.
Almost in a dream, she accepted Count Ducroix's arm, and
went to the seat before the beautiful gilt harp. She touched
the strings; and the deep, full chords came forth in exquisite
harmony. Always, when sad and weary, it had been her cus-
torn to go to her harp, to pour forth her sorrow through its
voice, or listen to the' comfort that lay in the sound of its
sweet tones; and to-night, that inanimate friend was faithful to
her, and with the first notes sent down into her heart, a soft
echo of sympathetic sadness.
Forgetting almost that others were listening, and following
the impulse of her own heart, she began an old melody that
she had learned long ago -a soft, good-night song:
"Day is past;
Stars have set their watch at last.
Founts that through the deep woods flow
Wake Sweet sounds unheard till now.
Flowers have shut with fading light,-
Good-nightI"
The tones of inexpressible sweetness floated through the apart-
ment, now swelling into rich fulness, now coming so softly that
they seemed to hover and tremble with harmony, and at last
dying away in the echo, " Good-night! "
The listeners were enraptured.   'One more,- one more,"
whispered Count Ducroix, who stood beside her.
" Inez," said the Empress, "give us that beautiful, touching
requiem for a dead warrior, that you sing so often for me. I
want Count de Thun to hear it."
Inez began the air that the Empress loved so well. They
were words that she had set to music herself:
"By a mountain stream at rest,
We, found the warrior lying,
And around his noble breast
A banner clasped in dying;
Dark and still
Antewindonghet were sighing."
The tears were welling up from her heart, and as she sanig
the last verse her voice was tremulous with emotion:


262

CROW JEWELS.
"Yet from festive hi11 and lay,
Our sad thoughts oft are flying,
To those dark hills far away,
Where in death we found him lying.
On his breast
A banner press'd,
And the night-wind o'er him sighing."

The words seemed to freeze upon her lips ; her heart grew
chill within, or there before her, she seemed to see the picture.
there was the young soldier, the same terrible  ncy that clung
t her still; and it was Giulian, lying alone o4the mountain
side. The conversation had begun around her, when the musio
chased, so that her emotion had not been not d. She called
softly to Count Ducroix,=--
"' Ask her Majesty's permission that I may retire. I am not'
well this evening."
Anxious at the pallor that the Count saw gn her face, and
the change that had crept over her features, Count Ducroix was
sbon at the Empress' side.
"It is nothing serious, I trust ? " said she, anxiously, as the
Count made his petition. "Certainly; Senorita Inez may retire;
countess Zichy had, perhaps, better go with her; and I will
see her myself soon.".
" It's only a little heart-pining, I think, your Majesty," said
t e Count, as he turned away.
" Perhaps a glass of wine would make you better, Senorita ? "
stid he, as he offered Inez his arm to conduct her into the hall.
"No, no ! " said she, hastily. "I shall soon, be better, any
ay. I am much obliged for your kindness, Count Ducroix.
dood-night ! "
Inez hastened up the stairs, and was soon alone in her own
c amber.   Going to the window-seat, that was her favorite
place she sat there looking out upon the night, listening -to
the mournful wail of the blasts, that, sweeping by the old con-
vents, seemed to bear on to the Plaza -all deserted and lonely
as it was now, -"a sound of woe."
She sat there, with her head resting on her hands, by the
stone casement, gazing vacantly outward, and tried to shake off,
o to define what this weight was, that oppressed her so. What
had brought before her that fearful scene, that she shuddered
tc recall ?  It was with her still; and she felt that to-morrow
same mournful truth would come.
And there were other thoughts, that forced themselves into
h r presence to-night, in spite of the ban she had placed upon

CR0 W7N JEWELS.

them. Surely she was not afraid now, since the days were
slipping away so fast and bringing the sacred vows so near,
that she would not be able to be true to Giulian;" that she
would not be able. to give unto him a meet return, for the
wealth of truth and love that he offered.?
She knew that the love- for Victor Isolani still lingered in
her heart; but this night she would cast itout. The stroke bf
the deep midnight bell fell upon her ear; and she remembered
that it was the hour for mass for the dying year.
Yes! if it had been a sin to love Victor Isolani, she would
lay it, with, all the omissions and commissions, the shortcomings
and overreachngs of the past year, at the foot of the cross,,and
would pray that one drop of that blood, whiclr cleanseth from
all sin, should fal upon the record that eighteen hundred and
sixty-five held for her; and, God helping her, with the New
Year she would begin a life of honesty and devotion as Giu-
han's wife.
The last stroke was dying away on the air, Inez rose, and
leaving her room, descended a flight of stairs -that led to the
chapel.
Noiselessly she opened the oaken door and went in. A sol-
itary wax taper burned upon the altars; the spangled stars in
the blue satin ceiling above, glimmered faintly through the cloud
of incense that came up from the pendent censer. Back from
the altar, all was gloom and indistinctness.
Crossing herself with holy water from the little marble fount
near the doorway, Inez trod softly up the aisle, and knelt in
front of the gilded railing around the chancel. Before her was
the cross, and the suffering Christ. As she looked up, He
seemed to cast upon her a tender, pitying glance, and lifting
her hands towards Him, she murmured her prayer:
- "0O! Lamb of God, that takest away the sins. of the world,
have mercy upon me ! 0 Lamb of God, that taketh away the
sins of the world, help us this night, we pray thee ! Oh, blessed
Saviour ! thou who didst pray at Gethsemane, give thy child,
this night faith and strength to overcome evil and to follow the
right ! Extend thy care, I0 Lord, to those who travel by land
or sea. Deliver them from all danger. - Be with them, and -
keep them now, and in the hour of death."
She bent her head upon the railing, and continued silently,
her prayer.
From the organ behind, there came* a still, solemn strain.
The notes, at first low and subdued, rolled forth, and a deep

11

263

i
:


CROWN JEWELS.

voice solemnly chanting accompanied them. Inez listened, and
her heart joined Father Fischer in his last mass.
The music ceased. The Father closed the organ, and descend-
ing from the little gallery went out. Inez too- arose, and left
the chapel; for she knew that he would return in a few mo-
ments in his robes to-perform his devotions.
As she went up the staircase, she found the Empress at the
head, waiting.
"You are more devotional-than any of us, Inez," she said,
taking her hand. "I went up to see you before we retired ;
but finding your chamber deserted, fancied you had gone to the
chapel. Come!" she continued, as they entered- her Majesty's
apartment, " tell me, Inez, what it is that has troubled you so
this evening. Is it Giulian's absence that has banished the
glad smile from your face ?  I was afraid you might be quite
indisposed from  Count Ducroix's anxious manner when he
asked to have you excused."
The Empress had drawn her to a seat beside her, on the sofa,
and her tender, sisterly love touched Inez' heart.
" I do not know, your Majesty, that I could give a real rea-
son for my unusual feeling to-night. I have been the prey to
a nervous feeling of undefined apprehension, which forces upon
me a dread of coming trouble."
"And this apprehension, quite naturally, hangs itself about
Giulian," said the Empress, smiling. " Ah ! child, your heart
must learn more fortitude. A soldier's wife has need of all
that she can command. Have faith, my darling, in the protec-
tion of a good God. You say he has promised to be here to
wish you a happy New Year, and even if he should not come
to-morrow, -"think,-it is a long, weary ride to Puebla,; and the
Emperor gave him leave of absence for three days longer."
The Empress' loving sympathy opened inez' heart ; and she
told her of the- fancy that had filled her mind, and pictured
the worst reality before the eyes of her brain, during the even-
ing.
" Ah! Inez, your love for Giulian leads you away. It is
rest you need. Giulian will be here all safely. Dismiss these
fears ; sleep quietly to-night, and let us go together at the
dawn to the mass at the Cathedral. - Let us begin the year
aright. You will be happier to-morrow. Bon nuit?/ "
The Empress kissed the tears away, and Inez sought her own
apartment ; where at last she fell into a troubled~, restless sleep.

CHAPTER XXXI.

IS mission accomplished, and the despatches delivered
safely to the Commanding General at Puebla, Captain
Navarro could not content himself to remain there
longer. The leave of absence granted them, gave himself and
escort three days more; but though he had promised Inez he
would be with her on New Year's day, he found that his escort
had gotten into the gayeties of the holidays, and were loth to
quit Puebla. So,: in his generous spirit, that always consulted
the happiness of others first, he determined to leave his men
behind to indulge themselves as long as possible, and he would
return to Mexico alone. It would be a dangerous experiment,
for the road in some parts lay through a region given up to
robbers who defied the military to turn them out of their rocky
fastnesses; but love and hope gave triple courage, and he set.
forth on horseback alone, just before a gloomy sunrising, on
the morning of the thirty-first -of December. The diligence
would follow an hour later, and he would, doubtless, be over-
taken by it and command the benefit of the'guard which always
accompanied it. But that was neither here nor there; he
must see Inez on the morrow, and he had never broken eves,
the lightest promise made to her.
As the spires and steeples of the city were left behind, and
the young officer entered the plain that spreads out around it,
the morning air, pure and bracing, though a little chilly, came
refreshingly into his face. Loosing the reins, he let them fall
carelessly in front of him; and gave his trusty steed, that
stepped on so firmly and proudly, his own pace.
The country through which he now passed was flat and un-
interesting, and many leagues stretched out between it, and the
beautiful' valley. Though now they took their own time, yet
Giulian knew that he could spur up his gallant black in the
evening hours, and he would reach the capital before the mid-
night bell had given its farewell stroke. So he gave himself
up to reverie and pleasant thought.
" Another year had come and gone to mingle  with the mys-
terious tide of Old Eternity!"  What did it bear away for
him?' What record was summed up by the angel above to his
12

264A

C7R0 W. J.L WEL Si

20


266

CROWN JEWELS.

account ? Were there any strokes too deep and black to be
washed out by Mercy's tear ? He had tried to serve his coun-
try and his God ; and if there had been a time when he had
been lacking in the fulfilment of his duty to his fellow-man he
knew it not. Giulian had no complaint of neglect or ill-usage
to enter against the departing spirit that was sighing "fare-
well " this day, to the hills and valleys far and near ; for it
had "given him a friend and a true, true love ; " and his heart
in fancy, chimed an echo to *the distant ringing, "sad and
slow," of the church bells that would at the midnight hour toll
the knell of a dead year.
And there was the New Year, coy and timid, standing upon
the threshold, waiting for a greeting, and a smile of welcome !
For Giulian, it had caught the same sweet song that had fallen
on his ear these months past ; the tiny voice of the new-comer
was chanting too of life, and hope, and love ! Let the little
lone come in quickly, with its message for each. His, he knew,
was filled with joy and happiness, and a fulfilment of the prom-
ise made long ago !
With such pleasant thoughts as companions, driving away
all feeling of loneliness, he rode onward, hardly marking the
changes of scenery on the way, or noting that the -sun, though
shining through clouds, had well-nigh reached the zenith.
He reached a little inn, however, that stood between morning.
and afternoon to the traveller; and stopping there, he waited
with the keeper, a loquacious old Mexican, who tried to while
away the time with the same dribbling of questions and que-
ries with which he had wearied the patience- of as many guests
as there were days in;the year. Giulia.n waited with the hope
of seeing the diligence from Puebla. come up ; but as an hour
slipped away, and the old Mexican stood in the doorway and;
observed, in his broken Spanish dialect,
" She's late to-day ! Behind time  something wrong, I'm
raid!
Giulian's patience, which had been rapidly diminishing, quite
ave out, and he -ordered his horse at once.
" Better wait, Cap'n, better wait," said the old host. "'Twas
pnly two weeks ago there was a conduct killed in that Black
Forest ! There was a regular fight between the guard and the
robbers ; but 'twasn't no use ! Wish Juarez had all his men
vith him ; for a man's life is not worth asking for on the road
Between here and Mexico. The Emperor ought to see to it !"
Notwithstanding this terrible picture and pointed example,

CROW   JEWLS.            -    .26T
Giulian set out again alone; as he had ample confidence in a
protecting Providence, and the strength of his own right arm,
to defend him from these unknown enemies.
Late in the afternoon he found himself but a few miles from
the dreaded forest, the solitude of whose lonely pines were
haunted by dangerous mysteries. The sun was just setting as
he reached the brow of a hill upon its confines, and for a mo-
ment he drew up his rein. The last sun of eighteen hundred
and sixty-five ! Though its glories were obscured now and then
by vapory clouds that floated across its disk, and shut out its
brightness, yet it was sinking behind the hills not entirely
shorn of its beams; for there was a radiant glow on the purple
sky, and the lowering clouds were fringed with brightness..
Giulian stopped but long enough to draw from his bosom an
oval pearl case, and touching its spring, the beautiful face of his
betrothed was before him. He must take one glance of that in-
spiring countenance, before the darkness came on without.
Raising it to his lips, he murmured,
'' She will be mine at last! Only one more short month ! "
He put the talisman back again at its old place, nearest his
heart; where, if possible, it might feel the warm, soft beating
that had pulsated for it alone, through the many years that had
brought him from boyhood to manhood.    In a moment, his
mind ran back to the time when the youth and the little maiden
had strayed together over the hills at Querataro; and to the
evenings, when, side by side, they wondered over the same story-
book of fairies and fairy-land, with no one save Juan to come
between them; and he thanked God, though he had often
dashed their youthful sport and childish pleasure, he could not
thwart them now - could not take her from him now.
The thought of Juan seemed to waken him; to make him
feel that he must get nearer to her; and giving the word of
command to his impatient steed, he began to descend the hill,
towards the forest that lay just ahead.
Giulian rode on in silence and solitude. Now the way led
along the ledge, of a mountainous precipice, with huge rocks
towering above ; and again, downwards into the gloom of silent,
mournful pines. Occasionally he passed a rude cross, planted on
the roadside to mark the grave .of some murdered postillion or
conductor, or set up by some Samaritan hand to cheer the de-
spairing traveller through these Plutonian regions, by reminding
him that there is One above who is a constant watcher, and
cares for all.


299

CROWN JEWELS.

It wasgowing colder with the night; the air was heavy
nd damp with mist, and rough blasts sweeping down the
ountain slopes, struck a chilliness through the young man's
frame that made him draw his sarape mare- closely, and
heer on his steed. It was a'dismal, dreary ride ; and Giulian
ad just reached the darkest portion of his route, when he
eard behind him the clatter of horse's hoofs Involuntarily,.
is hand was upon his sword, and in an inst nt the belt that
held his holsters and dagger was slipped to th side, so that he
ould seize them in a moment.
" A dark night, senor," said the voice near him, "and a
lonely ride; you do not object to company, I trust ?  The dili-
gence met- with an accident which delays it  or some hours;
4nd as I was anxious to get on, the innkeeper furnished me a
orse, and told me I should find company through the forest."
The voide was strange, and yet there seemed something
amiliar to Giulian in it. As he assented to the man's pro-
osal, he cast a searching glance .towards hin; but in the un-
ertain light shed by the few timid stars, whose rays ventured
remblingly through the darkness, he could only distinguish the
gure of a horseman, with a sombrero hiding the upper portion
f his face, and a heavy black beard covering the remainder ;
while the huge Mexican sarape hanging over his shoulder,
eached to the high riding-boots, with immense brass spurs.
he stranger's tout ensemble was just the san e as. one meets
hundred times a day in Mexico, during the wet season.
" Do you think we will get in to-night? " was the next
uery; for Giulian was rather taciturn.
" I think it doubtful," said the officer ; "the clouds are
g thering so rapidly, that perhaps we shall be compelled to stop
a the in on the other side of the forest."
Just then a blast of wind came sweeping through the tall
es that waved their heads solemnly to and fro, and in their
moving seemed to echo the voice of the com ng storm. The
t o travellers rode on together, each keeping pace with the
o er, and neither seeming inclined to grow more familiar ; and
the silence was only broken by occasional exclamations at the
ini easing darkness.S
" By heaven! this beats Erebus," cried the stranger, drawing
his sarape up. "If it keeps on at this rate, we hall plunge into
the lower regions before we know it ! What's that we see
yonder ?~ "      .
On a little knoll in the distance, there gleamed a white cross

'68

ROW! JEWEL

-- the only distinct object-in all the shadowy gloom. As ,they
pressed nearer to it, the trees grew less closely, and it began to
grow~ lighter. The stranger, as if leaning forward to discern
the heavenly token more clearly, bent a keen, piercing glance
into Captain Navarro's face; and turning quickly, he drew up
his .rein so tightly and suddenlythat he threw his horse back
upon his haunches, and the animal's eyes gleamed out from
their sockets with an unnatural fire.
The movement startled Captain Navarro, but in an instant
he had wheeled his horse about, and for the first time was
face to face with his companion. Each looked steadily into
the eyes of the other, and there was a flash of hate in those of
the stranger, as he threw up his sombrero and exclaimed,-
" We are met at last, Giulian Navarro ! Did you think I
would forget you and Inez; though you both seem to have done
me that favor?"
" We are honored, Senor Gonzales," said Giulian, with cut-
ting sarcasm in his voice, "by your remembrance -"
" This most opportune meeting," said Gonzales, interrupt-
ing him, " obviates the. necessity of a dangerous adventure ;
for it is dangerous for a free Mexican to venture to:his cap-
ital in these days of Imperial liberty  Though I have been in
the City of Mexico for more than six months past, and have had
it in my power to put this Imperial usurper and some of his
good followers out of the way a score of times ; yet I have for-
borne, as I' think things are getting in proper train to work
themselves out. It is not an idle boast when- Isay that some
of his Majesty's favorites, that would lick the dust upon which
he treads, out of his presence, hold the hand to aid his enemy.
But that is not the point now ; " he continued ; " my -busiess
to-night is with you, Giulian Navarro, and can be settled here
as well as elsewhere."
".I am at Senor Gonzales' command," replied Giulian, with
mock courtesy; "and if possible," he added, "his business shall
be settled forever!"
"Giulian Navarro ! " exclaimed Gonzales, stung by the cool
and fearless manner that Giulian had assumed, "there is  o
use to waste words between us. Inez Gonzales is a wom n,
and has no right to disgrace the name she bears by wedding a
traitor. The old, grudge is rankling here still," putting  s
hand to his heart,," and the seal has been added to- it, since
you have worn thie uniform of this mock Emperor !"
.Giulaia's face brned at the insult.

i


270

.CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS.

U/Il _
f
t
{4{[F
jl
1
41
l
Y
f
3
!  S
i;
1 iii
r;t
FiF
if
t
i  .
1
i
tFFF
i'
{9
(S
aif
Y          {
i
11
1
4

271.

"Gonzales ! " he cried, pushing up the large hat that fell
ver his brow, and grasping restlessly his half-drawn sword,
'you dare not repeat those words !  Not even from you -not
yen for Inez' sake, will this insult be taken ! There is but one
ay for this, and you force it on me
"You or Imust die Navarro ! " cried-onzales, finishing the
entence.
"sAnddie you shall !" cried Giulian, leaping from his horse,'
hrowing the reins back over the saddle, and wrenching his
sword from its scabbard.
The movements of his antagonist had kept pace with his
wn ; and they now stood face to face with drawn swords, each
aiting for the other to make the first thrust.
When two who should meet as brothers cross swords as deadly
enemies, there is no mercy ; and such was the conflict that be-
an in the depths of the Black Forest with no witnesses save
he stars, that now and then looked half-frightened through the
ifts of the gathering clouds.
With a savage, grating sound, the swords clashed. Hate
erved the arm of the one with more than human strength, and
he other fought for life -life, that, with the near approach
f happiness, was growing each day more prec ous.
"AhI1 fondly youthful hearts can press
To seize and share the dear caress;-
But love itself could never pant,
For all that beauty sighs to grant,
With half the fervor hate bestows
Upon the last embrace of foes;
When grappling in the fight they fold
Those arms that ne'er shall loose their hold.
Friends meet to part ; love laughs at faith ;
True foes once met are joined till death."
Captain Navarro parried the thrusts of his antagonist with
asterly skill. In youth they had learned together the art of
encing from, the same master, and each knew the hand of the
other was to be dreaded.
The conflict grew more fierce. Death was coming fast to
ne. Suddenly throwing himself to the left, Gonzales directs
bis sword for a telling blow. Quickly Giuliain turns to meet
it. My God ! it is too late ! his sabre is dashed from his hand,
nd he staggers backward -- backward -and. falls heavily to
bhe earth. From his side a crimson current, his heart's blood,
flows out, but there is not a groan, to tell that he is dying.
For one moment, Juan Gonzales bent over him, and as their
eyes met, the one so full of pain and the death agony, the other

lit up with the satanic triumph of gratified revenge, only o e
word escaped them both, - - "Inez!"
"Inez ! " hissed the brother and murderer, as he held p
a large seal ring that he had always worn, and slipped it on
Giulian's unresisting finge   - -' this token shall tell her the
truth: I did not forget her!   Adieu, Senor Navarro!"
" Inez ! Inez ! "  echoed faintly the bleeding lover.         is
despairing tones were lost; for Gonzales had -leapt lightly     to
his saddle, and the sound of his horses' hoofs striking the ea th
in quick succession told that, when the morning dawned, it
would-find him many leagues from the scene of his dark niglt's
work.
"Through the woods and mountain passes
The winds like anthems1roll;
They are chanting solemn masses,
Singing 'Pray for this poor soul.
Pray! pray I
Heavily and slowly drifted the clouds through the gray sy;
mournfully the hollow wind sighed through the darksone
pines whirling the crisped dead leaves over the bosom of the
sodden earth; and soon
"The hooded clouds, like friars,
Telltheir beads in drops of rain,
And patter their doleful prayers.
But their prayers are-all ins vain--
AlLin vain!"
"He lieth still; he doth not move :
He will not see the dawn of day."
Aye ! the dead lover lieth there, still and cold, with the piti-
less rain-drops, - nay, with the, tears shed by the weeping stars
falling tenderly upon his whitened, upturned face ; his faithful
horse, as if with knowledge of its loss, bending his noble h ad
downward, until his jetty mane swept the face of the loved
master-the only watcher, yet true and devoed, beside the un-
heeding dead.

I.


p

272

CROWN JEWELS.

CHAPTER XXXII.
HOUGH the night had been misty and dark, the clouds
cleared away before the morning, and the sun of the
New Year rose bright and strong, dispelling the hazi-
ness that had ushered in the dawn.
With the earliest rays of light, the Empressand Inez left the
palace for the Cathedral. It took, after descending the steps
and finding themselves on the stone pavement, but a few.
moments to cross the, Plaza and reach the d or of the church.
They entered the aisle that led up to the alta , and in the gloom
of the early hour could see that there wer but few besides
themselves so devotional; and those, kneeli g here and there,
scarcely dreamed that the Empress of Mexi o said her matin
prayer beside them this morn.
The grand altar was still adorned with, he green wreaths
and garlands that were festooned about for tle Christmas time.
The flowers and red berries were fresh i  the vases, that
stood between the massive candelabras;  nd the tall wax
tapers, burning with the day, threw a rosy lght on the golden
cross above, and the burnished railing below.
Already the Archbishop, in his white surplice and violet
stole, knelt upon the altar steps, the waiting priest bearing the
covered chalice beside him.                  . ~
Soleninly the mass was begun, with the * Introit " and the
pleading words of the "Kyrie Eleison;" and then the scattered
voices were heard in a low murmur, as they fo lowed the Bishop
in the, confession of sin. The absolution, as given to the
kneeling penitents; the prayer of thanksgivi g offered, and the
benediction was pronounced.
Silently and apart, the 'pious worshipper passed out, the
Empress and Inez ingering for a moment uill all were gone,
and then following. As they reached the s eps, a ragged old
woman stood there,,and stretched forth a bo y, shrivelled hand
for alms.
"Seuoritas ! for the sake of the most pur blood of Christ,
by the miraculous conception, for the love f the most Holy
Virgin, pity and alms ! "
This piteous appeal, though in truth but  repetition of the

stereotyped phrases of Mexican leperos, touched the good heart
of the Empress, who never turned a deaf ear to the poor, and
she dropped a shining coin in the woman's palm. The old
creature's face lighted with up a grin of delight, and dropping
a curtsey and a "God reward you ! " she turned away, chuck-
ling at her extraordinary good luck, little dreaming that it
was the Empress. to whom she was indebted; for upon the
occasions when she went out on foot, Carlotta was the ane as
any lady in the capital, always taking care to avoid any inani-
festation that would proclaim her rank.
"See there! see there, your Majesty ! " cried Inez, stopping
suddenly, when they had gone but a few steps further.
She pointed to a litter borne, by four soldiers, who, with
their burden, were just turning the corner of the street a ead.
It seemed.to be the body of a man on the litter, covered entirely
by a Mexican blanket.  .
It was still quite early, and there were but few on the ilaza.
The shopkeepers on the other side were just coming out to open
their windows, and array their goods; but just at this moment
a man passed near them, and, without thinking, Inez began to
question him.
".Only a soldier, I believe," said the man, who did not seem
to know much about it, "killed by the robbers in the Black
Forest last night. Picked up by the diligence from Puebla."
" It is he! it is Giulian, your Majesty !" cried Inez, convul-
sively grasping the Empress's arm, as they went hastily on to-
wards the palace.
"Inez !" said the Empress, with an effort to conceal the
anxiety which she could not but feel herself "how yoiu let
your fears and your imagination run away with you! I{iian
is not expected for two days yet. Although he promise you
to come, he cannot be here this morning; and then he h's an
escort strong enough to defy any number of robbers. No this
is, as they say, only some poor imprudentsoldier that has fallen
a victim. This Black Forest must be cleared of these terrible
bands ! The Emperor must give his attention to it. at
once."
They had gone in through the court-yard instead of up the
front steps; and as they stood together in the corridor before
separating, the Empress,.seeing still that. Inez was not satisfied,
called after her as she started away.
"Inez! you distress me; you need quiet, and we will try to
do without you at the palace to-day. Go to Afiita and your
12*

I

CROWN JEWELS.

273

1
j
i

I
{


274

CROWN JEWELS.

uncle, and tell them, I say, send you to us to-morrow, once
more, our bright Inez."
Inez thanked the Empress, and went up quickly to her own
room to make preparations for leaving. She felt that it would
do her good to be with Anita to-day, for her heart was not
strong enough to enter into the reception, although it was to be
a mourning one, that was to be held at the place.
The Empress entered the little ante-chamber adjoining her
sleeping room. She found the Emperor waiting for her at this
unusual hour.
" At mass so early?" he said, rising to meet her. "A Happy
New Year ! " bending down for a kiss.
" A Happy New Year, Maximilian ! Ines and I went this
morning to the Cathedral to be sure to begin it well."
"Alas, poor Inez !" said the Emperor, as he held out a little
ote he held in his hand; "the New Year rises in clouds to her."
" How?  What is it?" said the Empress quickly. "What
s it?"
"This was brought to me a halfhour since, from Colonel
Lopez, saying that the diligence frond Puebla, which only got in
a few hours ago,,had brought Captain Navarro's body, which was
found by the roadside in the Black Forest. Killed by robbers,
I suppose. I cannot imagine what could havemade Navarro
so imprudent, as to come on without his escort."
" Then it was indeed he that we passed, and they were carry-
ing him to Don Ruy Gonzales. Inez will know it soon enough,
as she has gone already, perhaps." And the Empress related
the conversation of the evening before and the morning inci-
dent to the Emperor.
" Then it must have been that foolish promise to Inez that
brought him back yesterday. And his escort, perhaps, wanted to
stay in Puebla until the leave of absence was opt, and so Navarro
came on alone. Love robs a man of judgment and reason en-
tirely. It is the loss of a gallant officer to us. I had deter-
mined to take him upon my staff after his  arriage. But I
don't understand," continued he, reading over the note in his
hand again. "Lopez says 'his horse was brought in, too, and
the body was not rifled.' Giulian had no personal enemy that
could have done this ?  The bandits must have taken alarm.
These robbers must be cleared out, if it takes every soldier
in the capital to do it!"
" We must send to Inez at once," said t1 e Empress, " ourt
sympathy and sorrow within her,"

OROW7 JEWELS.                   275
" And Navarro must be buried with becoming honors,' said
the Emperor, as the Empress opened her writing-case to begin
her message to Inez. "Poor fellow ! we shall mis' him
greatly."
It had required but a few moments for Inez to ma e the
necessary changes in her toilet; and she wassoon again n the
square, hastening towards her uncle's, which was some di tance
off, being near the suburbs of the city.
The Plaza was now quite animate with those coming and
going. Things seemed to have taken an impetus-with the New
Year, and everything wore a busy aspect.
Inez hurried on; and it was not long before she turne into
the Calle de --, the street in which her uncle lived. The
feeling of dread strengthened in her heart; she would soon
know the truth; if it was Giulian's body that was upo  the
litter, he would be borne at once to her uncle's.
As she came nearer, she saw that there was a group o sol-
diers standing about the steps that led up to the gallery over
the court-yard gate. They were talking earnestly in low ones
to each other, and now and then, looking up at the windows,
told by their manner that their conversation bore upon hose
within.
Drawing her -long veil tightly over her face, Inez p ssed
hastily up into the gallery; and went by the lazy porter  th-
out returning his sleepy morning salutation.
Two Imperial officers were walking up and down the 1 ngth
of the hall; but, without noticing them, Inez went quickl on,
to the farther door of the state drawing-room, which stood ajar.
For a moment she stopped, dreading to lift her veil and cross
the threshold; dreading to see the confirmation of what sh had
felt to be a reality since the night before.
At last she went in softly, and closed the door behind still
not daring to loo1p  She raised her eyes, and the same  ance
that told her there was no'one in the long room save herself,
revealed to her a something dark and gloomy, standing be death
the arch in the centre. Alas ! those velvet hangings are seen
too oft to mistake their name.
Upon the bier, in the uniform with which they had cl thed
him for the grave, Giulian Navarro lay, still and coldI; and apon
the hand that had grasped hers so warm and lovingly but a
week ago, Inez caught sight of the token that her brother had
Bent, and it delivered its message faithfully.
'With a stilled scream, she sprang forward and threw herself


76                CRiOWN JEWELS.
eside the dead. A torrent of anguish and grief swept over
er soul.
"'Oh! that he should have died for one so unworthy ! But I
-as not altogether false ! Giulian, I did lqve thee; and I
wear to thee here, that, as you gave your life for me, I will
evote the rest of mine to your memory. 0 God ! hear me ! "
The vow was made, and though there was no echo to it be.
ow, no witness to its truth, it was recorded above.
All was silent in the drawing-room. The  were alone to-
ether -the dead lover, handsome and manly even with the
oath pallor on his cheek, a calm, quiet smile upon his lips, and
he despairing, grief-stricken woman by his skje.
It is a mournful thing to look upon the dust of the departed
hen the life-breath has gone out; to look upon, them, so quiet and
till, soon t be taken away forever, and to feel that we are pow-
rless to awaken them from the deep sleep into which they have
allen ; to know that we have no Promethean power to call up
ain the beatings of that fond heart, where once we reigned
supreme; .to feel as answer to all our passionate avowals of a
eturn love, to all our pleadings now for just one word to us,
dearest one, still the same deep, awful silence; for our de-
s airing grief-plaints cannot reach them amid the voices of the
angels and archangels above., We may lay wreaths and offer-
ihgs of love about the earth-temple; but the spirit that we wor-
'ped has gone to join the high, holy company in the temple
'not made with hands..
The hours sped on; and still Inez knelt there, pressing that
cold hand, with the band of gold upon its finger, close to her
eart. She knew with what hate to him and to herself, Juan
lhad placed it there, and she could not touch it. It was a ring
e had worn from his youth, and had at last served him a cruel
urpose. Let it be buried now in the grave with Giulian, as
he secret of his murder would be. Anita knew, as herself
hat the token meant, but it was not for them to bring him to
engeance: leave him to God.
At last there was a soft footstep beside her, and Donna Anita
ently drew her away.
She sat by her all day in her own room, trying to soothe and
quiet ~her; 'but neither ventured upon the subject of how
iulian had come to his death.
.Inez fell into a sleep, and when she awakened, hours
emed to have passed; for all was darkness hha quiet around-.
he was startled, and looked out, anxosytrying to remember

CROWN JEWELS.Y27
where she was, and what had called her from the palace. Anita
had fallen asleep in the huge chair by her bedside. Ah.! 'it
came sweeping over her now, the mournful reality of her grief,
and she buried her head in the pillow. Yes: Giulian was dead;
dead forever to the earth, and on the morrow she would bid
him adieu until Eternity! She must see him, just once more,
to-night.! Rising from her couch, she threw a mantle over
the neglige'she wore, and crept softly into the drawing-room.
There was but one light, burning dimly in the front. One or
two Imperial officers sat near the window; but they wer con-
versing together so earnestly, that they did not notice wha was
passing behind them.
Gently Inez drew back the pall from the face, and be ding,
covered the cold brow with kisses. Into the one thatshe
pressed upon the dead lips, there was thrown all the long,
lingering passionateness of a last "Farewell;" and a  she
gazed fondly upon the face, before she drew back the pally and
turned herself away, it seemed that she heard again those
last loving words, "Inez, thou art my all! " And again she
took the vow upon her heart, to devote her life to his memory.
The morning came, and before noon a long, solemn tra' of
soldiers, with trailing arms, keeping step to the slow beat' g of
the muffled drum and the mournful notes of the " Dead Ma ch,"
followed the body of the. fallen officer to the cathedral, here
solemn masses and holy prayers were offered for the repo e of
his soul.
Then the services ended; the cortege, followed by a long
train of carriages, in the first of which, came the Empero and
Empress, moved through the streets towards the little cemetery
of " Santa Maria," where he was to be buried.
Upon the bier lay the sword, the cap with its plume, once
worn so proudly, useless now; and there was the noble teed,
that would soon be reined by a stranger's hand, foll wing
with the soldier's accoutrements.
The procession stopped beside the open grave. Solemy the
voice of the priest sounded, as the coffin was lowered, "Dust
to dust, ashes to ashes 1" The parting salute was fired by his
comrades, the last tribute paid, and Giulian Navarro w  left
with the sleepers that wait for Eternity.
-END OF BOOK SECOND.


CROWN JEW
B OO K T HIR
"Let laurels, drench'd in pure Parnassia
Reward his memory, dear to every ims
Who, with a courage of unshaken root,
In Honor's field, advancing his firm fo
Plants it upon the line that Justice dra
And will prevail or perish in her cause.

ELS.
D.
n dews,
e,


BOOK ~
CHAPTER
OUNT KHEVENHUL
The night had closed in
qitin the encampment
undisturbed around,-andc
the train of thought into which t
restless treading and stamping o
or the occasional call of the sentr
It was indeed a time for refl
ested in the future of the Mexica
had passed since the year 1866
and the little cloud, that was th
hand," had grown heavier, and
ening ; and those that listened
rumbling of the distant thunder.
The year before, had been eng
the troops of the Empire, to whi
shall Bazaine had given their unit
been garrisoned within a long ran
of gendarmerie were stationed at
from the seaport Vera Cruz, to
capital.
It is true, some of the northern
session of the Liherals; but there
hold those by the Imperialists, as
the army to scatter its troops ins

[TIURD.
XXXIII.
LER, was alone in his tent.
some hours ago, and all was
. The Hussars were sleeping
I, there was nothing- to break
he Count had fallen, sav the
f the horses beyond the tnts,
as the hours passed.
action with every one inter-
n Empire. Scarce two ino ths
had dawned upon it brightly,
ien hardly so " big as a m 's
now looked. dark and th eat-
nxiously, could hear the ow
,aged in the. reorganizatio of
h task the Emperor and . ar-
ed attention. Every city  ad
ige of the capital; and fo ces
intervals to protect the 'oad
the cities in the route to =the
towns had fallen into the os-
was not much effort ma to
it diminished the strengt~ of
~uchi an extended circle. d

1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 _
li "


22  ROWN JEWELS.

CR0W JEWELS.

when, in the autumn of the year just passed, the news came that
Juarez had given up, and crossed the Rio Grande into the
United States, it was believed that the Empire would have no
further trouble.
But the military question had been the least consideration
with the Emperor since his coming. to Mexico. It was the
financial department and its embarrassments that had given his
heart most anxious care. He had found the Mexican treasury
comparatively empty ; and as the state income did not come
up to the government expenses, it was not likely soon to be
filled. And there was the support of the army resting upon it;
and the immense debt to France, to be discharged by install-
ments, the first of which, according to the treaty-between the
Emperor Napoleon and the Emperor Maximilian, signed at
Miramar, fell due immediately upon the latter's arrival in his
empire. It was scarcely possible for the Empire to support it-
self, and to meet these immense claims before it had gained a
sure footing as a nation. But the Emperor did his utmost.
His own salary, and that of his Ministers were reduced to a pal-
try sum, when considered with regard to their rank; and every
nerve, every sinew was strained to satisfy the - obligations to
France. And that power seemed to be content that Mexico's
will was good, until outside influences were brought to bear
to change the current of her intentions.
In the autumn of 1865,,when it was believed throughout the
Empire that Juarez had given up the hope of ever establishing
his republic, and had left Mexico, there was issued by the Em-
peror, with the advice of his- Ministers and at the instance of
Marshal Bazaine, as the surest way of at once disarming the
remaining band of insurgents, a decree that " all guerilla, or
men belonging .to the Juarist party, taken with arms in their
hands, should be shot."-
This was only giving a retaliative threat to these bandits -.-
for they were nothing more- for the many inhumanities and
barbarous cruelties that they had practised upon the Imperial
soldierswho were so unfortunate as to fall into their hands.
When he first came to Mexico, Maximilian had granted a
general amnesty and pardon;. and if the turf thrown at
them had proven unavailing, now that there was no plausible
excuse for holding out against the Empire, which was the de
facto government, was it not excusable to throw a few stones?
And the four, and only prisoners executed by General Mendez
under that order, did but give their blood for that of hundreds

that had been shot by the Liberalswho spared, in their ferocity,
neither men, women, nor children who favored the cause of
the Empire. No one can doubt the magnanimity and generosity
of that heart that had spared his enemies from reprisals hereto-
fore, and had even pardoned the treacherous Cortina, when he
was in his power, and who was now in the field with his force
arrayed against him.
But, while the Emperor was bending his energies to settle
satisfactorily these perplexing questions of Church and State,
the Southern Confederacy had fallen before the arms of the
North, and the United States had time at last to look about,
and see to the status of her neighbors. Senor Romero, the
former Minister from Mexico, at Washington, still remained
there, and succeeded in claiming the attention of the great
power for Mexican affairs. American diplomats at last, were
ready to announce, "that the existence of a monarchy, sup-
ported chiefly by a foreign power, on the American continent,
could not be tolerated. It was an insult to the United States,
that France had disregarded her Monroe Doctrine, and she
must, now that the United States was at leisure to see to it,
withdraw her troops from Mexico, or she should be held to ac.
count for it. Let the Empire then stand, if it could, before the
Republican party."
The Emperor Napoleon, at Paris, gave heed to this threaten-
ing message ; and with the Treaty of Miramar, by which it
was agreed that "the French troops should remain in Mexico
until the Emperor should be able to organize the necessary
troops to replace them," staring him full in the face, he still
determined to avoid the greater evil; he must not give a
" casus belli" to the United States.  Acting upon this, an
Imperial commissioner was sent from Paris to Mexico at once,
to consult with the commander of the French troops there, in
regard to the compliance with these demands ; and to say that
the Empire must soon look to herself for sustainment.
It was only February, and the commissioner had not yet ar-
rived ; but the rumor of his coming, and the withdrawal of the
French troops, had flown in before him. All knew what was
before the Empire, if France deserted her. She was not yet
strong enough to stand alone; and under the patronage of the
United States, the Liberal army would gather up again with
double strength, and' then -no one dared to look further. A
feeling of indignation against France and her- Emperor crept
into every heart. Even the French troops themselves cried out

288

282

0


284            CROWN JEWELAs

CROWN JEWS.               285

against their monarch's broken faith. A thousand surmises
arose, as to what would be the action of the young Emperor;
and a thousand anxious hearts trembled, lest he, too, should
give up Mexico;- and yet, his devotion and nobility convinced
them, that he would never forsake them.
Count Khevenhuller had been running these things over in
his mind, as he sat there with his bbok, which he had in vain
tried to read by the dim light of the little lamp on the table be-
side him, still in his hand; contrasting the German and the
French heart - the faith of one, and that of the other. Per.-
haps he wag over partial in his love of country; but he thought,
if the worst came to the worst, "he would not give ten of his
gallant hussars sleeping just without, in their tents, for a whole
regiment of French chassetur-s." The Count was to be par-
doned for this unjust estimate, for at this moment ,he was
heartily disgusted with everything connected with France.
There was a rustling noise near the tent, which aroused the
Count from his reverie. He turned, and saw standing in front,
with the fly which formed the door half drawn aside, a man,
around whose shoulders was thrown A large cloak, which he
had drawn up over his head, concealing a brow, from beneath
which a pair of piercing black eyes looked out like "lions from
their jungles," full into his face.'- A heavy moustache and im-
perial told that the stranger had at least caught if not belonging
to them, the French style militaire.
Count Khevenhiiller reached forward at the unexpected ap-
parition, and placed his hand hastily upon his sword, which he
had unbuckled, and laid across the table.
"Don't be alarmed, Count," said the man, coming in and
looking anxiously about to see that they were quite alone, be-
fore dropping his. cloak, and revealing his Imperial uniform.
" It's no midnight ghost or murdered Caesar come to call you
to account; though your sins are perhaps not few," he added,
smiling, as the Count arose. " Do we need an introduction,
or do you know Captain Joubert of the Empress's cavalry ? "
" Certainly ! Captain Joubert is no stranger," said the Count
with cordiality, offering a seat.
"Ah ! yes," said the Captain, "you know my name, but
that is about all. We have been neighbors a long while; have
seen each other on parade a hundred times; beyond that, we
are strangers. This is an unusual hour fot my first visit ; and
as it is of a business nature, Ii must of necessity be rather

abrupt. Though we know so little of each. other, Count, Itnk
we may safely say we are both honest men?"
The Count smiled a little incredulously.
" Ah ! " said Captain Joubert, noting it, "I am a Frenchman,
it is true, and of late 'France's honor is below par here ; but
then it is possible for Frenchmen to be honest men. And as I
shall have need of your confidence hereafter, perhaps, let me
tell you just here, Count, that though born in France, - it was
not in Paris, thank God ! where, since this centralization system
has gai ed the day, they have concentrated the wickedness and
sin of the whole country, but in an humble little cot in Nor-
mandy I first saw the light, my father taught me to love my
country ; and I was a soldier-boy as soon as I was tall enough to
hold a drum..- And even after my poor mother was left a lonely
widow, I could not content myself away from the sound of the
bugle and fife, and so at last went off to the Crimea. It was
only a little affair, that of scaling the wall at Sebastopol, and
planting the banner of France ; but it made an ensign of a poor
private, and gave me a star ; and helped me to send home a good
many more francs a month to the mother that mourned so over
her rover. Now she is gone, too ! and here I am in Mexico. I
may be a hardened man; but there's a place in my heart that has
been kept soft by a mother's prayers, and loves right and jus-
tice. Ah ! Count, French soldiers, believe me, are made of very
different material from French politicians," he added,"as he
brushed a tear aside, and' continued.; "but this is all useless.
and you are longing to know what brought me here to-night.
Well, nothing, perhaps, after all; only I am in trouble over
the record that France is about to send to history.- You love
the Emperor Maximilian; and I find myself strangely attached
to him. Tell me, what do you think the Emperor Maximilian
will do ? Do you think he will accept the invitation that France
and the United States will give him, to go back to Mira-
mar ?"
" Go back to Miramar ?  Captain Joubert, France does not
know the man she deals with !. Go back to Miramar ? Never !
until his inanimate form is borne there ; and before that comes,
this must do its duty," said the Count, laying his hand signifi-
cantly upon his sword.
"I understand," said the Captain; "there will be rivers of,
blood to flow first ! You will fight for this noble.Prince to the
death, and so will I. Woe to the day that Mexico loses him !"
"Yes !" said the Count: "show us a promise that the Empe-


286            CROWN JEWELSW

ror has made, that he has not fulfilled, or striven faithfully to
do ! He has kept his word and his faith untarnished,; and now,
France, at the bidding of this arrogant Republic of the United-
States, cares not if he be sacrificed. But I tell you, Captain
Joubert, this shall not be ! " continued the Count, excitedly;
" the Emperor Maximilian is not a boy, to be trifled with !
There may be some deep-laid plot between the United States
and France to absorb Mexico, and all this fanfarado now
may be a blind, to hide the division of spoils they are looking
to, in the future ; or, the United States, since she has gotten
through with winding up the Confederacy, which she found
rather a tough job, thinks she is powerful enough to browbeat
France, and take Mexico herself; but she will find the Empe-
ror Maximilian terribly in the way. He may be wronged and
deceived by treachery, but he can never be duped! France may
take her troops away if she desires to ; the Emperor can still
command men, here, and from Austria, to defend his Empire.
Our good Francis Joseph will not see him handled roughly.
The Austro-Belgian Legion here already, the Mexican regi-
ments are all as true as steel; and the sooner Marshal Bazaine,
who fetters and trammels the Emperor's movements, and his
whole crew, are off, the better ! "                   .
" Perhaps," said the Captain, "you are too hard upon Mar-
shal Bazaine. He only serves the Emperor Napoleon, whose
representative he is here."
" Then, let him go ! And let the Emperor Maximilian gather,
together his faithful few; let his officers, ministers, and all, be
stanch and true, and the EmpireTwill raise its flag triumphant
yet," said the Count, hastily.
" Ah ! yes," said Captain Joubert, slowly, and looking ear-
nestly into the Count's face, "let them be stanch and true /
Treachery in high places makes way for it below. If the officers
be all loyal, Count Khevenhiler ! "
" If, Captain? " said the Count, starting as if the officer had
struck some thought of his own, that he had hidden until now.
"1If?' Speak out, Captain Joubert ! "
The Captain looked around searchingly again to see that they
were quite alone; and then, drawing nearer to the Count, he
held out his hand, as he said in low, earnest tones,-
" Count Khevenhllller, before I go further, there is my hand !
There are dark days ahead, I am afraid, for the Mexican Em-
pire. But I pledge you here, that, let every Frenchman beside
myself go, T will be found at the last fighting under the Empe-

ror Maximilian's banner ! What I am about to say to you
Count, is not a hasty, immature conclusion;. but I feel that the
Emperor stands in danger, not from France alone. ' Judas Iscar-
iot went down to disgrace a thousand of years ago, but his
spirit still lives, and there are those that will still betray with
a kiss."
- The Count had risen, and stood by the speaker's side, so that
he could catch the whisper to which his voice had fallen.
"This is fc-  r ear alone, Count," he continued, "and I am
afraid of these      walls, here. It is growing late, and I
must be at my du jy, two o'clock, when the guard changes.
Since Navarro's death, poor fellow ! te duty comes heavier on
the remaining officers. Will you go with me as far as the Ala-
meda ? Our encampment is only two or three hundred yards
beyond. There is nothing so valuable here, that you are afraid
to trust it until you return," he added, taking a careless sur-
vey of the camp-stools, soldierly trappings, etc.
"No, no ! "said the Count, as they left the tent together;
" the esprit du corps is very high among the hussars."
"You are quite proud    of your, Hungarians," said the
Captain, as. they passed the little tents that shone- whiter
than ever in the moonlight ; "and'indeed you have a right
to be-they are as brave men as ever fought. But there is
your sentry, standing between those trees."
The " Halt ! " of the solitary guardsman sounded out on the
midnight air. The Count, giving the countersign, passed on
with his companion, and the two were soon walking across the
graveled road of the Alameda, toward a seat beside a fountain
in the distance.
The park was deserted. Not a footstep was heard on the
pebbly walks, and not a breath- of air stirred the leaves or
the branches of the noble trees that stood around. -The two
were quite alone.  Captain Joubert was the first to speak.
" Count Khevenhiller," said he, " I have come to you, be-
cause I know you have the Emperor's interest at heart. Have
you an intimate acquaintance with the Colonel under whom I
have served for six months past ? Do you know Colonel Miguel
Lopez well?"
"Do I know him ? " said the Count ,quickly; " hardly well
enough to speak advisedly of him. I have seen Colonel Lopez
often at the palace, and have been with him on parade. He is,

CIAOWN JEWELS.             N287

,.A


288              CROWN JEWELS.

CRO WAT JEWELS.             289

S
S
9
t
f
f

as a relative of his wife, a great favorite with Marshal Bazaine;
and enjoys the Emperor's esteem and confidence."
"But do you remember, Count, that good human-nature
writer who said, 'A man may smile and smile, and be a villain
still'?  Colonel Lopez may wear the ribbon of the Legion of
Honor, and his heart beat falsely beneath. You have heard
it whispered of late, that some of the Ministers were becom-
ing disaffected.  I think I would be willing to take oath that
one of the officers has been so for months past."
"Joubert, let us hear the whole of this ! " said the Count, ris-
ing and restlessly walking to and fro for a moment, before he re-
sumed his seat. " What is all this ?. Speak out ! "
"Listen, Count ; and then form your own conclusions. There
have been agencies at work here in our midst, for months
past, for Juarez; holding cabals and secret meetings. You know
this smooth-lipped, oily-tongued Frenchman, Puillet, of the
Cafo de -. He has been in league with these spies ; and they
have held their councils in an apartment above the salon, where
good Mexicans go to drink the Emperor Maximilian's health.
Colonel Lopez and his adjutant, Yablonski, have, to my cer-
tain knowledge, attended these meetings within the last two
months."
"Joubert ! " cried the Count, " can you prove this ? Colonel
Lopez has everything in his favor ! A man's reputation must
not be assailed lightly."
" Can a man trust his own eyes, or do we dream sometimes
in waking moments ? You, of course, are ready to ask how I
know all this. I have in my command a young Pole, Radetsky
by name ; a gallant, handsome fellow, who has been as a bro-
ther to me, since we met many years ago ; and we came out to-
gether from  France.  Puillet, who keeps the cafe, has a
charming little daughter, Mademoiselle Julie, who, it seems,
has been quite carried away with Radetsky's brown whiskers
and black eyes, and gave him her confidence in return for his
little compliments of' bien jolie et ma petite!/' You know how
fast these Parisian maidens talk; and in an unguarded moment
Mademoiselle confided to her lover, some things, that, if her
good pare only knew, he would hang her as high as Haman.
She disclosed to Radetsky that secret meetings were held
in the third story of her father's house, and had been kept up
from time to time for six months past. These important facts
Radetsky at once brought to me, and we agreed, that he should
persuade Mademoiselle Julie to secrete him, if possible, somne-

where near enough to overhear what transpired at the next
meeting, as their machinations might bear seriously upon the
Empire. Julie at first hesitated, but was finally persuaded, on
condition that Radetsky should not come until quite late, and
then in some way disguised ; she would meet him at the court-
yard gate, and give him his position in the house. Time passed
on, and only a week ago Mademoiselle informed Radetsky, who
had kept her courage up, that the night had come, and she
would see him at twelve, as the meeting was not generally
held until the salon was closed below. It was at once deter-
mined that I should go in Radetsky's place. We are about the
same height, and in this," holding up the long cloak, "and un-
der cover of darkness, Julie would never discover us. And as
I knew the Ministers of State, and officers, better than he, I
would be the best one to- go. So, at twelve, I found myself
waiting at the gate of the court-yard. It was very dark, and I
could see nothing ; but presently heard a soft voice, 'Emile,
are you here ?' The answer I gave was in a whisper, and the
girl, taking my hand, led me along through the court-yard, up
the steps into the corridor, until we reached a little dark hall
or entry leading into a room beyond, which was, I saw, dimly
lighted by a single oil-lamp. Hurrying me on, we entered the
room, and without waiting to look, Julie pushed me into the
recess of a window, over which the long curtains were dropped,
and whispering, 'Pll come again for you,' left me in rather a
perilous position. As she went through the little hall, I heard
the voice of her father calling in coarse French, 'Julie ! ' and
her answer, 'I have just carried a lamp, as you bade me.' It
was not long before they came in; Puillet, followed by near a
dozen others, all of whom were strangers, save two, -and they
-- I almost cried out then as I recognized the Colonel and
Adjutant of'my own regiment! "
" Joubert, is this a well-laid story you are hatching?  Lopez
and Yablonski ! " cried Count Khevenhiller, earnestly ; "let us
come to the end of this! ,Go on! "
"Yes: Lopez and Yablonski were there, and discussed the
certainty of the French troops being withdrawn, and the military
movements projected by Juarez, and the probable force the Em-
peror could command to meet him. I am convinced from what
I heard, that Col. Lopez is planning for his own elevation if
the Empire falls. As I tell you, he was at this meeting, and
left none of -the details of the pverty of the Empire untold.
I have no&amp; been able to look upon the man's face with patience
18

.,
1
r
i
i
t

i
1
,
,
;
f' J
{
s
.


CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS.              291

since ! After an hour or more, old Puillet gave the signal for
adjournment, and, like the thieves of justice and honor they are,
they all followed him out into the darkness. I waited impa'
tiently enough, my heart burning to tell Radetsky what I had
seen; but a half-hour passed, and I was just concluding Julie
had forgotten me, when I heard her light footsteps, and her
whisper, ' Come quickly!' Old Puillet had taken the lamp, and so
we were in the darkness; but we made our way in a few seconds
safely down to the court-yard, and on to the gate, where, after
a hurried kiss to Julie, and a whisper for Radetsky, that 'I
would come to-morrow,' I hurried away, my heart filled with
a thousand emotions, to our encampment, where I found
Radetsky on guard. We have each kept our own counsel. At
this time of perplexity, it may be well enough not to trouble
the Emperor with this; but it is left with you, Count., You
have his Majesty's ear ; and I am willing .to substantiate my
words with my blood."
" This is a terrible business, Joubert ! " said the Count, as if
lost in deep thought. "Lopez, Lopez, upon whom the Emper-
or has heaped so many favors, to whose child he is godfather,
- whom he loves like a-brother - Lopez unfaithful ! "
"Great events work out from very little things; this girl
has given us, perhaps, the means to save the Emperor much
trouble in the future."
" Captain," said the Count, abstractedly, " keep your eye on
Col. Lopez and this fellow Yablonski; but remember, as you
have said, that Radetskyland yourself keep your own counsel.
I will see what is to be done about it. It is the lion's claw in
the gant de velour, but we will try and keep it from clutch-
ing anything very valuable. If you discover anything more,
let me hear from you. - You are an honest fellow, Joubert ! "
The convent bell struck two..
" Hear !" cried the Captain, "like the murdered King of Den-
mark, my time is out; the guard is changed at two, and, as I
am officer on duty, I must be getting in. Good-night, Count.",
. Joubert drew the cloak up about his face again, and going in
and out between the trees of the avenue leading across the
park, was soon lost to sight. A queer mixture he was of hen-
esty and candor; a rough, " dare-brute, dare-devil" specimen,
whose heart became thoroughly enlisted in the cause he espoused,
and who, with all his careless indifference, would die for the
right. Ready for any wild escapade that was gotten up by the
soldiers to break the monotony of their life, he was an universal

favorite among them; and fortune had given him so many hard
strokes in life, that he was full of sympathy for others. This
united with his reputation for bravery and courage, increased
the admiration and love with which he was regarded by his
comrades in arms.. In the reorganization of the army, he, al-
though a French officer, had been given a command in Colonel
Lopez's regiment, which had been stationed at Mexico for
months.
Count Khevenhiiller stood for a few moments where Captain
Joubert had left him, and then began a Napoleonic promenade
up and down the avenue, turning over again and again in his
mind the revelations he had just heard.
He hardly entertained a shadow of doubt as to the truth of
Joubert's statements; the question was, "What was his duty
as a faithful follower of the Emperor, in the matter ?  Go to
him at once and tell him of Lopez's duplicity, prove these charges
against him, and let the consequences be what they would ? No :
this would cause an open rupture, perhaps, with Bazaine, who,
as related to Lopez, would of course endeavor to shield him
from public disgrace; and then, too, just at this time the Em-
peror was so perplexed and worn out, with the Freneh status,
that it would be unkind to destroy his faith in those around
him.
The Count determined that he, too, as well as Joubert, would
keep an eye on Colonel Lopez. He knew that it would l1e months
before Juarez could gather force enough to seriou ly Ithreaten
the Empire, and until it came to a pointed issue, Lopez's infor-
mation could not do him much good. In the meantime, he would
go to him and fetter his movements for the future by letting
him know, that he was not working altogether in the dark. It
would be time enough to mention all this to the Emperor, when
it was really dangerous to trust Colonel Lopez; but at present, it
would have a bad effect, not only in Mexico, but in the world, to
discover that the Emperor's bosom friend, as it were, was play-
ing him false."
Folding his arms across his chest, and for the first time not-
ing the chilliness of the night-air, after forming these conclu-
sions, the Count, too, left the Alameda, and made his way to
wards his tent.

I.1I
ih

290

,
'
.
,:
i
1

{
s
a
1
I
i
t
f


293

92CROWN JEWELS.

CHAPTER XXXIV.

SOUNT KHEVENHULLER            of the Hussars!" said
the adjutant to Colonel Lopez, opening the door of his
private office in the city.
Colonel Lopeze looked up from the morning paper, in
which he seemed much interested, and removing his lighted cigar
simply called, Show the Count in!"
In a few moments the door was again opened, and Count
Khevenhiiller was ushered in.
My dear Count s! "said the Colonel, rising and going forward
with extended hand to meet him, "how delighted Iam to see
you! It is not often you pay me this compliment. Indeed,"
he added, as he offered the Count a large chair beside the table,
strewn with papers and writing material, "it seems to me, to
be such a young, handsome man, with everything so in your
favor, that you hold yourself singularly aloof. I know a score
of senoritas here in the capital, that would give their diamonds
to see you follow Marshal Bazaine's example, and marry in the
Empire; but you are a perfect iceberg!7"-
"Indeed?" replied the Count, hardly pleased with Colonel
Lopez's facetious flattery, "though,I lay claim to be not much
of a court follower or attendant upon fashion just now, I trust
the Emperor has no charge to bring against me for want of de-
votion to him."
"Ah, no!" said Colonel Lopez. "You are all right there;
and doubtless your heart already has been laid before a worthy
shrine in Bohemia ; for Sappho's muse comes to every one once
in a lifetime. But how are things going now, Count?  Have
you seen the Diario this mornmg? Salliard, the French Com-
missioner, has arrived, and I suppose we are to hear France's
zpse dixito I am afraid Louis Napoleon will not hold out for
the Emperor..
Count Khevenhiiller looked into Colonel Lopez's face. His
eyes were bent upon the paper, searching for the announcement
of Baron Salliard's arrival and the editorial comments thereon.
Could it , e possible, he thought, that this man was the mid-
night traitor? So full of pleasant words, such genial bearing,

such seeming candor and sincerity?  Was it not possible that
Joubert might have been mistaken? But then he remembered
the pointed quotation, the honest old captain had used,- "A
man may smile and smile, and be a villain still!"  If Lopez was
playing double, he would find it out before he left that office ;
for he defied him, to baffle his ability to read human character,
and he should pass the ordeal of his.scrutin this morning.
"Who cares," he replied, suddenly remehering Col. Lopez's
last comment, " who cares whether he holds out or not ?  The
Emperor Maximilian is not a pensioner upon France; and there
are other troops in the world beside French soldiers. If they
all go the Foreign Legion and all, there are already organized
at San Luis Potosi, ten thousand native troops .under skilful
officers, and the Emperor holds the balance of power, in having
possession of the rich central States."
" But," said Colonel Lopez, "you forget, that if the French
troops are withdrawn, it will leave these States liable to be over-
run at anytime. You know the Liberals have Diaz, Escobedo,
Co-tina to lead them."
"nd the Emperor has.Meija, Mendez, and Garcia," replied
the Count. " We shall have the summer to prepare in, for the
campaign cannot begin for some months yet. The sooner France
gets off, the better!"
"But the Emperor does not seem to look so lightly upon this,
Count, as the soldiers do. There is a rumor, you know, that
General Almonte, who is well known at the French Court, is
to be sent to Paris on a special mission."
" Let him go," said the Count. "But it will do no good.
The Emperor Maximilian, who is the soul of honor himself,
cannot be expected to look lightly upon, or. comprehend in a
moment, the total want of faith in an ally whom he had .never
doubted. The Emperor is unprepared for treachery, and if
we wore in country where it was not a spontaneous growth, I
should ' ie my life that our Emperor would triumph over every-
thing - at I am afraid that it will lurk in his path even here.
If he iean but keep his own true!"
Cou: .t Khevenhuller turned his eyes carelessly towards Colonel
Lopez and let them rest upon his face. He noticed, he thought,
a momentary paling as he spoke ; but his reply came very
quickly.
"hy, Count, have  you any reason to believe that the Min-
istry is becoming disaffected?

=  1
U
ji
11

CROWN JEWELS" 4

292


r

CR0 W4T JEWELS.

"I should not like to be too definite or premature, Colonel
Lopez, said the Count, assuming a confidential air; "but there
are proofs of a want of faith, in a quarter where it would be least
suspected."
Where, - where, Count Khevenhuller ? " whispered Lopez,
drawing his chair nearer, and looking anxiously and earnestly
into the Count's face. "You astound me ! "he added, trying in
vain to conceal his anxiety.
Count Khevenhuller. did not take his eyes from Colonel
Lopez s face as he replied,
"bu am afraid I am hardly at liberty yet to mention names,
but it will perhaps not be imprudent to say that there has been
a secret cabal, holding meetings, and organized by spies from the
Liberal army, in this city for months past." Colonel Lopez
Was biting his lips, and his face seemed to wear a whiter hue.
Yes," continued the Count, growing more convinced, as he
notd his change of expression, and determined to probe him
e quick, and at these midnight meetings there have been
seen men who, in the daylight, wear the Imperial uniform, and
are respected as true and faithful."
Have been seen / have been seen, Count Khevenh "ller?"
cried Lopez, earnestly, forgetting the part that he was playing;
Who can prove this ? who is this traitor? It must be Mira-
mon, or General.      "_
"Stop, stop, Col. Lopez," cried the Count, drawing towards
e officer, whose emotion was so intense that it was of itself
proof against him; "don't slander honest men! We can come
nearer the man than that. The name whispered to me was that
of Colonel Mfguel Lopez I"
"False, false !  cried Lopez, excitedly rising; "and I defy
.  proof to be produced! Who says that it can be done, lies
in his throat!"
Count Khevenhiiller had taken a step- back, as Lopez rose,
but he only answered his words,' so full of passion and rage
in the same calm, impassive manner as before.
" Stay, Colonel Lopez; do not further betray yourself. You
now this is truth ; and, if your' reputation is destroyed, it
will be your own deeds, that will give it the death-blow. You
are safe now, and it is not too late to preserve yourself. These
meetings that you and your friend have attended are watched.
mperor at present knows nothing about them."
"And, Count Khevenhiiller, I dare you," cried Lopez, inter-.
rupting him, and raising a pistol that he had wrested from his

295

CROWY JEWELS.

side until it was on a level with Count Khevenhnller's heart,
"I dare you-I dare any one, to whisper these -things, that are
infamous falsehoods, against me, to the Emperor! Breathe
it again, and your life must pay for it ! I could kill you this
distant Count KhevenhUller, where you stand ! "
There was not a muscle in Count Khevenhnller's face that
mved, but, looking straight into Colonel Lopez's eye, a low sar-
motic laugh came from his lips as he reached out his hand.
"Ha! ha:! Lopez! And you think to frighten me into
silence with that little weapon? You dare no more kill me
now than you dare put the muzzle against your own brain, and
plunge yourself his instant into eternity. Put up your pistol,
Colonel Lopez, and feel safe, as I told you, for the present.
There are but few who know this beside myself, and these few
wish you no more harm than you deserve. The Emperor will not
hear it, if this - treason, shall we call it ? - goes no further ;
but remember, Col. Lopez, there is an eye on you. These men,
who think they hold their meetings unsuspected, may plot and
plan, but they will never be permitted to strike. ' The best-
laid schemes of mice and men gang aft aglee.' Good-morning,
Colonel Lopez! "
With a courteous bow, Count Khevenhiiller left the room.
For some moments Colonel Lopez sat, almost palsied in mind
from the wor s he had just heard. " Seen -suspected - disco-
veredi! " He laid his pistol down beside him, and his head
sank upon the table, and in tones husky and low, the words fell
from his lips,-
" Undone ! undone ! "
But a sudden thought seemed to strike him, that gave new
hope to his heart, and, rising quickly, he walked to and fro the
length of the little room. At last he exclaimed, -
"Khevenhuller shall be checkmated! Next week my-regiment
is sent to Puebla, and adieu for the present to this surveillance.
In the future, Lopez shall be the truest of, the Emperor's follow-
ers, and above suspicion; and, my good Count, I hardly think,
with all your influence with the Emperor, that you could root me
out of his confidence in a day! Ha, ha! But how under heaven
has this dropped out ? Old Puillet's neck must be wrung before
I get away! Lopez will show these proud Germans that he can
be elevated and dictate terms, too ; but he must labor cautiously,
and wait. If the Empire fails and Juarez succeeds, it will .be
worth the trouble: the reward will come then. Ha, ha I"

294

IC
ti~

,
,
h
t

I


CROWN JEWELS.

CHAPTER XXXV.

   ARONSALLIARD had arrived at the capital; and the
many rumors that had preceded him in regard to his
mission and its probable effect upon the Empire were put
at rest, when it became known that he bore instructions
to M. Dano, the French Minister at Mexico, and Marshal Ba-
zaine, the military commander, from His Majesty the Emperor
of France, that the withdrawal of the French troops should be-
gin early in the following autumn, and be accomplished as soon
as possible. It was further added that, "The Emperor of Mexico,
having failed- to keep the Treaty of Miramar, in providing for
French claims, could not expect France to hold herself under
further obligation to sustain the Empire. However, the Emper-
or of France would always feel the deepest sympathy with the
Sovereign of Mexico." The Emperor Maximilian, unprepared
as he was for such total want of faith in his Imperial ally, could
not at once take in the idea that France had so suddenly aban-
donedl the Government which she herself had established,
simply because of the threats of the United States ; for, dis-
guise the truth as he would, this stood out a bare fact, at
the cause of Napoleon's sudden change of, policy.
As the steps to facilitate the evacuation must be taken as
once, it was necessary to discuss the situation with his council
and the officers at the capital.
It was a solemn meeting that was called together in the Cabi-
net at the Imperial Palace. Each felt, as they took their seats,
that before they left, the fate of the Empire would be decided.
Never had the young Emperor's heart been so burdened with
care, or his face so clouded by anxiety ; and as he entered the
cabinet-chamber, and saw the troubled look that rested on the
countenance of his Ministers and officers, he knew that they,
too, felt the weight of coming-dire events.,
M. Lacunza presided at the meeting. There was Marshal
Bazaine and M. Dano as representatives of France; and, besides
the regular members of the Cabinet, Colonel Lopez and Count
Khevenhaller, on the part of the army, were present.
M. Lacunza, the President, opened the meeting. He began

by calling the attention of all, and setting forth in a clear, candid
manner, the political, financial, and military situation of the
Empire ; its terrible- poverty, which had not only prevented its
keeping its promise of settling French claims, but put it even out
of its power to pay its own troops, who were therefore becom-
ing dissatisfied. A true patriot was -M. De Lacunza, and as
such he spake out.
"G entlemen," he continued, as he finished his detail. of. the
evils that would fall upon the Empire by the failure of the French
co-operation, "these things are apparent to all. It is useless to
prolong the sad picture of our poverty. The qv.estion is for the
remedy ! France established this Empire. A large portion of
the Mexican nation, who had been educated with republican
principles, accepted a monarchy because they expected it to be a
permanent Goveiinment. Up to this time, France has acted in
good faith; but now, just when troubles press heaviest, when the
United States declares for the enemies of the Empire, France
has no right to desert her. I repeat it ; this is a Government
established by France ! The Emperor Maximilian accepted the
chief rulership, and has labored conscientiously and faithfully
to build up .the Empire, and -that he has not performed the
miracle of financiering which ithwould have taken to have sus-
tained himself and met outside claims, does not furnish a
shadow of pretext for the message the Emperor Napoleon sends
to us: 'We have ao more men nor money for Mexico !   We
ask ourselves, can this be true ? We can carcely credit it
as coming from the Cabinet that has heretofore been our stanch
support. But these messages, unfortunately, are not borne to us
by the wind, as treacherous echoes, but come through special
commissioners accredited from the Tuileries. No, gentlemen, it
is no fault of Mexico that causes the policy of Frahce to be so
suddenly changed : it is the voice of the United States calling
loudly for the destruction of the Empire ; and, as a preliminary
step thereto, urges the withdrawal of France's support!  The
Union gives its orders. The question is - will France meekly
ob~ey them, as she is now preparing to do ?",
There was a solemn silence as the speaker waited- a moment
for each one to take in the force of his words, and then con-
tinued:-
"W1ere is the spirit that animated France in 1864, when, in
reply to the vote of Congress against the monarchy of Mexico,
she simply asked of the American Reopresentative,''Do you bring
13*

r      'r
t    #1

I

297

2096

VAlb
"DO .2T JEWELS


298             CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS               299

us peace or war?' Is the United States to be so much more
dreaded now than then?
" We come back to the same point in the end ; shall I
come out boldly and say what it is that threatens to engulf the
Empire?   It is bankruptcy! It is money, to arm and equip
and sustain the troops she has, that Mexico needs; and how is it
to be raised? His Majesty, our noble Emperor, and the Min
isters have furnished an example of economy, by reducing
their private expenses..- The Empress Carlotta, who is the
jewel of the Crown, prefers rather to dispense with the pomp and
grandeur of royalty, than purchase it at the cost of her people.
If we can but weather through the coming storm, the Empire
will in the end be a grand success! The idea of its establish-
ment reflects credit upon the intellect that conceived it and will
it now be abandoned, and given up entirely for the want of a
few more advances from the French treasury ? This is the
question that France must now decide!"
M. Lacunza took his seat beside the Emperor Maximilian,
who leaned his head upon his hand, so that none could see the
terrible struggle that was going on within as he listened to. the
discussion. M. Lacunza had kept back none of the embarrass-
ments that beset them on every side; and the Emperor waited
now for the answer of M. Dano, the French Minister.
"Gentlemen," said he, rising "as the representative of
France, I am forced to make answer this morning, to any
charges that may be brought against her. Baron Salliard has
but just left us to return to Paris, and the nature of his in-
structions are not unknown. In answer to M. Lacunza's-
questions as to what France will do for the Empire in the
future, I can but refer to the dispatches of M. Dhrouyn de
L'Huys, who speaks for the Emperor of France, and who sim-
ply lays down as our course, that 'there are t6. be no more ad-
vances made to Mexico, and that Marshal Bazaine is to make
all necessary arrangements with the Emperor Maximilian, for
the withdrawal of the French troops the coming autumn.'
This is the only answer we can make to M. L cunza, except, to
add the repeated assurances of the Emperor  apoleon's good-
will and sympathy."
A smile ran over the faces of those who heard this mockery,
as it seemed to them, in their troubles: the offering of stones,
instead of bread to a starving man; but the slight curl of the
lip did not linger long upon M. Lacunza's face, as, his brow

flushing and his voice betraying unwonted emotion, he ex-
claimed, -
"W hat! is this the way in which France thinks to dispose
of the whole matter ? While she spends millions for the
empty show of an Exposition, is Mexico to be left to drown?
No! it was France that asked the people of Mexico to give
up the Republic; to accept the Empire, and the Emperor Max-
imilian as their ruler; and France must sustain it! .This
treaty of Miramar is ' between the Emperor Napoleon and the
Emperor Maximilian;' but Fruce owes it the people of
Mexico to sustain the Government, and in their name I boldly
demand five million francs monthly, for the expenses, until
Mexico can do more towards supporting herself! At present
all is tumult and confusion. The cry of'Long live the Northern
Intervention' is already the rallying shout for Juarez; and,
under the conviction that France is going to sacrifice the Em-
pire, even those who would support it think it more politic to
make friends with those who are to triumph. But this must
not be ! France surely does not realize our true position!"
" M. Lacunza! " cried the Emperor,. suddenly breaking
through his calmness, and interrupting him, " further detail or
comment is unnecessary! The whole thing may be summed
up in a very few words; -it is either bankruptcy of the Em-
pire or the hope of saving it. If the personages who repre-
sent France at this meeting are not willing to take the respon-
sibility of spending a few millions, they must take that of hav-
ing allowed bankruptcy to intervene, which assuredly would
not be the desire of the Emperor Napoleon, who has always
shown himself to be the friend of the Mexican Empire."
"But," said M. Diano, "perhaps your Majesty forgets, that,
as we have stated before, we have no discretion of our own,
and are compelled, however much we may desire to lend aid
to Mexico, to carry out our instructions. We have faithfully
endeavored to acquaint the Emperor Napoleon with the evils
that would follow the course of policy he has adopted, and the
probable downfall of the. Empire; so that we cannot presume
upon His Majesty's ignorance of the situation. It has been
suggested -though I hardly know that I should mention it
here  that: as the Faperor of France sees that the establish-
ment and sustainment- of this Empire is to be a profitless in-
vestment for him, it will be so to the Emperor Maximilian
likewise. Even the most sanguine of the Imperialists hardly
hope for success, if the French troops are withdrawn. ' The

/


800              CROWN JEWELS.

cRO WYJEWELS.             301

Emperor Maximilian has the same remedy to save himself,'
says the Emperor Napoleon, 'as we have. Let him, too, with-
draw; let him not struggle on and waste his energies in vain;
let him abdicate, and go )ack to Miramar, when the troops
leave the soil of Mexico; and say to this people, that will not
help to sustain any government, 'to manage themselves.' This,
gentlemen, was the tenor of Baron Salliard's verbal instruc-
tions, and I lay it before you this morning."
Had a thunderbolt fallen in their very midst, it could not
have startled the members of the assembly more than did M.
Dano's words. As he took his seat, each one, with various
emotions playing upon their features, looked into the face of
the other. The Empire to be entirely given up and abandoned!
All the time, money, and labor expended on it -all the hopes
and prayers for-its success offered in vain ! Given up while
there was a man left to raise and defend its standard? Never!
"Gentlemen! " cried Count Khevenlifiller, in a voice that
trembled with excitement, "what does the Emperor Napo..
leon mean by adding insult to the injuries he has already.
contemplated for Mexico?  Does he think that France can
build up and destroy governments at her bidding?  No! Let
France 'do as she will,. those that remain will stand by the
Empire to the end; our good Emperor cannot be daunted so
easily, thank God ! He is of a House that knows no such
word as fail."
" Yes! " cried the Emperor, with a mixture of indignation
and determination, " a Hapsburg never deserts his post! We
thank the Emperor of France, that he has so kindly taken our
personal safety into consideration, but his suggestion does not
accord with our ideas of honor ; and we say, 'Welcome battle,
and strife ; aye, and welcome death and defeat-but, dishonor-
never !' Who is it," continued the Emperor, his eye flashing
and his lips curling, as he felt in the depth of his soul the
words he uttered, - " who is it that would say to us, to
ignominiously and disgracefully abandon a people that had
placed trust in us?  Abdicate?  Perish the, thought! No:
the Empire of Mexico shall stand without the help of France.
Gentlemen, you who will stand by my side to the bitter end,,
you , who have watched with me faithfully so far shall not
the Empire live?"
As the Emperor stood there, his hand raised, and his face
glowing with emotion, every one of the Mini~ters caught his
patriotic spirit, and started to their feet.

"Live ? " cried Colonel Lopez, drawing his sword and laying it
with a clash on the table in front of the Emperor. "While
there is a hand to^ draw a blade, while there is a voice to cry
out 'Vive l'Empereur !' your Majesty will be sustained !"
" Gentlemen," said M. Lacunza, who, as President of the
Council, thought it best to change the- exciting turn it was
taking, "his Majesty knows full well, that, as Colonel .aopez says,
while there is a hand among us to draw a sword for the Em-
're it shall be done ; and, doubtless, the day is to come when
we shall be called to seal these words on the battlefield; but
it is our duty this morning to decide 'our relations with
France -to know how far we may rely upon her, in our present
emergency. We must have money, now, for the support of the
army ; the question is, whether France will give it. It is not
necessary to repeat our pressing necessities to the gentlemen
who represent France: they are known to the good Marshal
Bazaine but too well; will he not take the .responsibility of
acting on his own discretion to-day?"
Hitherto Marshal Bazaine had, preserved an unmoved
silence, but this direct appeal called for. an answer. It was
with the greatest embarrassment and sadness that he met the
question. lie and the Emperor~ Maximilian were personal
friends. Since their stay in Mexico, they had counseled and
advised. together in all plans for the good of the Empire, but
now their paths divided. Though all his sympathies lay with
the Emperor of Mexico, his duty to his sovereign forbade him
to hold out now a helping hand. He appreciated Maximilian's
natural and just indignation at the sudden desertion of France,
and yet he must keey silent.
As he rose to make answer to M. Lacunza, a shadow of sad-
hess clouded his brow.
" Gentlemen," said he, slowly, "I have been with you. even
longer than your noble Emperor. I know every hope, every
dream that has filled the heart of the Mexican patriot since the
establishment of the Empire; and you will believe me, when
I say to you, that I sorrow to see the beautiful Temple of
Liberty that we were rearing together, tottering to its very
base. Though here as the representative of France, I think
there .is not one among you who has labored more zealously for
Mexico; and to hear her calling to-day, through M. Lacunza,
to one who loves-her as a brother, for 'help, help! '-to know
that she is suffering, perishing, while I have -it in my reach and
am forbidden to give,' wrings my heart ! I ask mysel ,is it guit,

V.


7 .

302

CROWN JEWELS.

is it theft in the mother, who takes from another's plenty, to
bring back life to her starving child ? - I ask myself this, and
my heart gives way !  So long-as I am with you, I cannot hear
the voice of Mexico in vain. M. Lacunza asks for a monthly
advance of five million francs. It is out of my power to grant
so much; but I pledge myself, to place one-half that sum at his
disposal, until the Emperor Maximilian can send a special com-
missioner to Paris, to receive His Majesty's final and irrevo-
cable decision- concerning the action of France. Gentlemen,
,I can do no more, and I run the risk of incurring the displea-
sure of my sovereign for even this transgression of orders."
Marshal Bazaine. was seated, and there was silence for a
moment, as they all took in the proposition of a last and special
commissioner being sent to France.
" Mexico, my dear Marshal," said M. Lacunza, "can only
set this as one more to the long list of obligations she owes to
you; but it is for our Emperor to decide whether this commis-
sioner shall be sent to the Tuileries.'
"Yes," said the Emperor, rousing himself from deep thought,
and contracting his brow, "though I think it perhaps useless,
let General Almonte, already so well known to the Emperor
Napole6n, go to France, and insist that he agrees at least to
.the guarantees set forth in the Treaty of Miramar. But in the
interim," continued the Emperor, turning to the Minister of
War, "let us rouse ourselves, let us gather strength,! so that
when the worst comes to the worst, we can meet it with the
nerve of a Spartan Leonidas."
The' Council ended its meeting; and a few days later Gen-
eral Almonte, who had been near the Emperor since his first
coming to Mexico, left for Paris.
The young Emperor, and the Empress too, -for Carlotta took
a deep interest, and an active part in all the private counsel-
ings, --set to work in earnest to prepare for a coming storm; .
for though they would hang a hope upon the slender thread of
General Almonte's success; yet they felt there was-small chance
of help from France -now.
Marshal Bazaine, though confident that it was already de-
cided in France that he should .leave Mexico with his troops,
did not in the least' relax his efforts to increase the effective
force of the Empire ; but, in conjunction with- the Emperor,
succeeded in raising new battalions, placing them under skil.
ful officers, and assigning them to duty where most needed. '
Those already in service were disposed of to the best advan-

CROWN JEWELS.

303

stage ' Colonel Lopez, at his own request, was sent to Puebla;
General Meija to Querataro; while General Mendez was put
on duty with Count Khevenhiller, and his command at the
capital; other officers and troops were sent to. different prov-
inces that threatened revolt.
So the spring crept on. Though surrounded by troubles,
anxieties, and cares, trembling at each message that came to
them from abroad, the Emperor Ma imilian and Empress
Carlotta never once displayed a touch of doubt or despair to
their subjects. The hours of anguish and suffering that came
to them, when Hope almost sighed" farewell," were known only
to the God above, and to Him each prayed that the promise,
"As thy day so shall thy strength be," should be fulfilled unto
them.
CHAPTER XXXVI.
HREE months had passed, and General Almonte's
mission had failed. The reply that came from the
Emperor Napoleon was, if anything, insulting in its
refusal to even consider the propositions of the Mexi-
can Commissioner.
The whole Court at Mexico was roused to indignation; for
they felt that the Emperor of France was about to sacrifice
not only a noble Prince, but their country itself, by giving it
again to the old rule of disorder and strife.
Maximilian, always inclined to view the actions and motives
of. others through the medium of charity, could not longer
deceive himself. Napoleon had played him false ! And now
at the very weakest period, when he knew that it was to be a
death-struggle with the Empire, he made. fihe extraordinary
demand, that half the custom-house duties should be placed
at the command' of France ! This was taking even the -straw
from the drowning man.
SFor weeks and months Maimilian had given his whole time
to organizing, and'asssigning to duty, the different -army-corps ;


804            CROW  JEWELS

CROWN JEWELS.                 305

had been trying to recruit from the Mexicans, to take the place
of those who were to leave; but though succeeding tolerably well
in this, Maximilian could not hide from himself the fact, that
he would be in a desperate condition, in regard to the means
for supporting his army, for months to come.
He had been closeted all the long July morning in his Cab-
inet, at Chepultepec, with Marshal Bazaine and his Ministers,
trying to come to some agreement concerning the division of
these custom-house duties, which"would not leave the Mexican
Treasury entirely empty. It had already been drained for
France; and now, if this new demand was met, Mexico was
bereft of her last resource. .
Hour after hour passed in useless discussion with the min-
isters. Marshal Bazaine could only act in accordance with the
reply given to Genenal Almonte, that "Mexico must not rely
further upon France, and must accept the terms proposed by
her, i  regard to the further payment of her claims or the
French troops should be immediately withdrawn." '
Maximilian grew sick, contemplating, the future. He felt
rising in his heart that despair that at times takes hold of the
strongest and the bravest ; that makes them cry out with bit-
terness, as David of old did, "I shall one day perish by the hand
of Saul;" and brings up an impulse to flee away--if possible,
to rid themselves of the cares that are wearing out the heart, in
the service of others. Unable longer to keep back these bitter
waters that were flowing through his soul, he at 'last exclaimed,
pushing the papers away, -" Let us have an end of this ! I
have been miserably betrayed! There was a formal convention
entered into between the -Emperor Napoleon and myself, in
which he guaranteed, absolutely, the assistance' of the French
troops until the end of the year 1868. This was not included
in the Treaty of Miramar; but it is, nevertheless, binding upon
Louis Napoleon, for without it, I distinctly stated to him be-
fore leaving Europe, that I would never accept the Mexican
throne. . We can all see what is to be the result of this. We
know that to attempt.to struggle on, without the bare means of
subsistence, we shall soon be reduced to the most dreadful
necessities. As great a blow as it will be to my pride, to say
what course I intend to pursue, I think I understand what
justice to my people calls me to do.. I have no right to entail
suffering upon them, whatever I may be compelled to bear.
My conscience tells me to give back to Mexico, the power she
placed in my hands! Nay, if it'is the national will, the Em-

press Carlotta and myself can go back to the home over the
waters ; and Mexico may not say that it was Maximilian that
plunged her in a sea of trouble! Call it abdication -- what
you may, gentlemen ; I desire, before we leave this apartment,
to resign the position which I hold, as the chief ruler of Mex-
icc.Your Majesty," exclaimed the Secretary, "is not surely
in earnest ?"
"Deeply so," said the Emperor, without turning to look at
the Ministers, who kept silence, but motioning to the Secretary
to follow his dictation.
It was a terribly distressing and emba-assing moment to the
Ministers, as they heard the young Emperor wording the death-
warrant of the Empire they had sworn to support ; and yet
they could not stay him, for all were in despair. They felt, as
he did, that it was to be a terrible struggle, - full of suffering
and anxiety, and would end in defeat at last. But yet they
could not listen to the solemn voice of the Emperor, as he con-
tinued his dictation, without feeling their hearts pulsating
sadly within, and a tear-drop rise to the eye, as they remem-
bered, that when the Empire passed away, he, too, who by his
nobility and generosity had grown; into their hearts, would go
from their midst.
At last, Maximilian finished ; and drawing the paper toward
him, said to his Secretary, in the same hard, calm voice, that
was strangely unnatural, -
" Have the goodness to say to the Empress Carlotta, that
her presence is desired."
As the Secretary left the room, M. Lacunza rose, and con-
ing n ar the Emperor, offered his hand.
" Your Majesty ! " he exclaimed, "this is a day of sorrow and
of pain, to all of us. We cannot with calmness entertain the
thought that you will leave us.; and we insist that before this,
document is made official - that before this step so fatal, to
Mexico, and so important to yourself is taken, that your Ma-
jesty will reflect further. The evils which afflict us now are
great, but we trust that light will break upon us soon. With
your Majesty to lead us, and a God overhead to protect the
Right, we believe that this darkness shall pass away, and the
Empire will yet prosper !"
" God grant it !" echoed every voice in the room. "God grant
it! " said Marshal Bazaine, coming forward; -and following M.
Lacunza's example, taking his stand beside the 1hmperor.
20

A


3ROWN JEWELS.              807

The door swung back upon its huge fastenings, and the
Empress Carlotta entered.
Those that remembered to have seen her upon the day when,
at Miramar, she accepted, with the Archduke, the crown of
Mexico, would say as they looked upon her this morning, that
Time had forgotten her. There was the same lofty bearing as
she greeted the Ministers ; -the same queenly air, and womanly-
dignity ; -the same beauty of person; heightened by the rich
dress she wore.
The Empress knew that it was a subject of vital importance
that had engaged that little assembly so long; and as she stood
by the Emperor's side, near the table, she looked -anxiously
into the face ofeach, to discover, if possible, whether things
were growing brighter ; - whether there was any rift in the
cloud that had, of late, hung like a pall over the court and
ministry.
Since General Almonte's return, there had been sleepless
nights, not alone with the Emperor ; the midnight hours had
found the Empress at his side in this little cabinet, running over
with him, the reports of various departments; counseling with
him, and proposing plans for the future. With her, pride and
hope held out triumphant. Never once did she even whisper
to herself, that they should fail. Carlotta had proved herself, in
these dark 'hours of despair, worthy of her position; a true
woman, and a devoted wife. She had proved her right to be
esteemed in these. state meetings, by her wise suggestions and
energetic disposition; and knowing so well her sanguine tem-
perament, and indomitable perseverance, each one of the min-
isters dreaded to face her, with what was before them this
morning.-
For some moments after her entrance, there was silence
which was at last broken, by the Emperor himself.
"Your Majesty," said he, taking up the article of abdica-
tion, which lay on the table unnoticed by the Empress, " we
desire to present to you this document for your consideration."
The Empress took the paper, and opening it, ran her eye
down the page,' taking in its contents; and, as she gradually
understood the meaning, her face flushed, and her eyes lit up
with the fire of unnatural excitement. Scarcely glancing at
the Emperor who stood by her side, she turned to the ministers
seated opposite, and in a voice strong with pride and defiance,
exclaimed,-
" Who has dared to .lay this before the Emperor of Mex-

ico ? Does the Emperor of France pile Ossa on Pelion?
Does this come from. him?  Abdicate!" continued the Em-
press, seizing the document that contained the sentiment, with
a kind of hatred, and with a triumphant smile, tearing it into
strips, and dashing them from her to the.floor.- "Abdicate!
that is the answer," pointing to the scattered fragments, " that
the Emperor and Empress of Mexico give ! When those shreds
are united again, then may the thought find entrance in the
heart of either. No, gentlemen," continued Carlotta, her face
still glowing from the vehemence of feeling, "we have not come
to quite so bad a pass as yet. General Almonte has failed to
bring to the Emperor Napoleon the consciousness of. his treach-
ery --but I will go to France. I will go to Paris, and he
cannot, he shall not, he dare not refuse to me, to keep his faith
with Mexico! "
The Empress Carlotta seemed in her earnestness, almost trans-
figured. Every feature of her face betrayed the deep workings
of her soul. 'Her eyes flashed with defiance ; determination
sat upon her brow ; scorn and contempt of wrong gave a haughty
curl to her lips. Those who knew her as the queen of the
drawing-room, would scarcely recognize her as the Spartan hero-
ine she looked this moment.
Her last words, uttered with such desperation, roused every
heart that heard them.
M. Lacunza and the Emperor started forward.
" You --a woman, go to France ? " exclaimed Maximilian,
forgetting that there were others beside themselves in the
room; and then, remembering, " Your Majesty," he continued,
"it would be useless to waste one moment in the attempt to
recall the Emperor of France to the obligation that he chooses
to forget. .Let. us do even an- enemy justice,. That paper was
written at our own dictation. Perhaps theta consideration you
saw fit to give it, is the best- that it deserves."
" Ah ! " said the Empress, softening as she found that the
writing had not been offered to the Emperor for his 'signature,
"perhaps I was too hasty ; for moments of despair are ex-
cusable, since they nerve us in the end, with desperation to
meet necessities. Though a woman's voice has no right to be
heard in these storms, yet, to-day, I must say, as I look into
your anxious faces, take courage ! I -as Empress of Mexico,
will go to France, to the Emperor Napoleon; and if I come
not back bearing the olive branch as token of success, be as
sured that it is beyond mortal power to secure it:.!"

806            CROWN, d.EWELS


308                CROW1 JEWELS.
The Empress unable to control the tears that were rising as a
sequence to th  unusual emotion that had stirred her heart,
left the apartme t.
For an hour r more the ministers remained together with
the Emperor, discussing the proposition, or rather declaration,
made by the Empress Carlotta. There was but one that gave
his - voice in its favor, and that was Marshal Bazaine. He
desired that nothing that. could save both the Empire ,and
France, should be left untried.
At last, without any definite decision, they all left, and the
Emperor was again alone. The rays of the afternoon sun were
slanting through the, windows of the little cabinet-chamber,
where Maximilian yet lingered. He felt that the time had
come to " be still, and commune with his own heart."  His
soul demanded solitude. He felt that perhaps he - his future,
his past, was being weighed in the scales, and he dreaded each
moment to see chronicled in burning letters before his mind's
eye, the fatal " Mene, mene ; tekel, upharsin."
Despair, to-day, with lion-like grasp, had laid hold of him;
and though he grappled with the dark spirit with all the
strength that he could command, it was like Sinbad and the
old nian of the sea, "it held him so fast he could not get loose."
Hours passed ; and still Maximilian trod the apartment
alone. At last, as he stood beside the window and looked out
upon the garden that surrounds the Castle, he noted that the
long dark shadows of. the poplar-trees had crept away to rest;
that the golden sunbeams had stolen from the jessamines, the
roses, and the murmuring fountains, and were lingering on
the distant hill-tops, ere they said adieu. And as he stood
there, watching the last one depart, he suddenly called to mind
that it was the seventh of July, -the anniversary of his
birth.
Thirty-four years ago, he had first seen the light of day in
his German home. How quickly they had passed ;- those
days of childish glee, and youthful dreams !
As Maximilian stood watching the twilight, hanging its
misty veil tenderly, and carefully about the beautiful earth; as
the last flush died away from the face of the day, he gave him-
self up to the guidance of that mysterious power that holds in
charge the treasury of the past.
Again he was a child upon the lawn at Sch~inbrunn; a care-.
less, happy chiild, standing, as it were, upon the threshold of
life. Again his heart thrilled with the manly pride that had

CR0 W2N JEWELS.                  300
filled his boyish soul, when he wore, for the first time, -the
uniform of an Austrian midshipman; and a touch of the old,
joyous freedom, that came to him with the breeze that had kissed
old Ocean's brow, for a moment stole through Memory's open
door, and then' vanished, to give place to the dreams and real-
ities of later years. One by one, they all came and went ; the
blissful love times at Brussels,-in haly,-and- at Niramar.
And then-the whispers of Ambition; the hope of living for a
people's good - of leaving behind a name that Time could not
rob of its glory. Alas, alas ! He asked himself to-night, as he
stood there, a man burdened with care, -a heart trembling
between despair and desperation, "Was this the reward that
he had reaped for those hours of study and labor? A crown
upon his head, and its brightest jewels falling away ! A throne
crumbling by the treachery of another !
"Did the fault rest with him?  Had he been lacking in .
faithfulness to his trust ? God being his witness, he had never
given back from his duty since he had been in Mexico! Come-
weal or woe, success.or defeat, all must say that he had striven
to uphold the principles of right and justice."
But enough of this. To-night, he was heartsick, and soul-
weary. He felt that he was going through the test-period of
his life. It was the old point that he decided once before,
with a new bearing, that had come again--"to be, or not to
be."  Should he remain here, and struggle through years, with
scarcely a hope of success,_ or should he say, " I have been
deceived," and go back to.Europe?_-
"Go back to Europe !  Could he go there and hear the ver-
dict of the world, "Prince Maximilian undertook more than
he could accomplish; his ambition exceeded his ability'? "
How bitter they sounded! those words that seemed to ring
backward as it were, to him from futurity. No, no ! better the
death-blow, -- better the altar, with himself the sacrificial of-
fering, than a breath of doubtful credit on a shield he struggled
to keep bright.
But then, temptation softly whispered those magic words -
Carlotta and Miramar!"  Would they not be enough to
make him happy without the world? Did he have a right
to keep the one who had given him herself in charge, where
her destinyr would be obscured by clouds of sorrow ? She.
could not be kept aloof,* for her own spirit would e induce her
to share his fate.~ Here was anxiety and care, suffering and
distress, to wear away the youth from their hearts; andt there

I


310              CROW   JEWELS.

was )fihramar / He saw it now as it loomed up in all its beauty
and loveliness. The golden-tipped turrets bearing aloft the flag,
under the peaceful waving of which he had dwelt so long in.
happiness; and in front, the waters of the Adriatic, dancing in
the sunlight ! Could he not take Carlotta again to that haven
of rest, and let the world go ?
"Yes! " cried the Emperor, with desperation. "Vain pomp
and glory of this world, I hate you ! Miramar -thou art still
true ! thou wilt welcome the wanderer again to thy heart ! "
The door was softly opened.
"Maximilian, are you alone, and in darkness ? " It was
the voice of the Empress that awakened him from his dreams.
"Yes, Carlotta," exclaimed he, turning towards her, as she
entered. "Alone, and darkness without and within ! "
"Do you remember, my husband," said Carlotta, softly,
coming to his side and taking his hand in hers, as she noticed
[the sadness in his tones, "do you remember that this is your
anniversary ? And the whole day has gone, and I have not
found a moment before when I could offer my congratula-
tions !"
"Congratulations, Carlotta?" replied the Emperor, with a
bitter laugh. " Is it, then, a matter of gratulation with one in
this wide world, that I was born?  Ten years ago, -nay, five
years back, when my hopes beat high, and my heart was buoyant
with life, within myself I cried out, ' Thank God that He gave me
being !' but to-night, - when all is gloom and disappointment
- when my best actions are thwarted, my best plans turned
to naught, with those whom I esteemed full of honor, miserably
failing; bankrupt in human trust, almost bankrupt in hope, -
Carlotta, do you wonder, that my heart echoes the Scriptural
sentiment, "Better is the day of a man's death, than that of
his birth "?
"Maximilian!" cried Carlotta, looking up to his face,
where is the strength, the faith, the courage that has inspired
you heretofore, amid all difficulties ? This is an hour of dark-
ness, but we must drive it away. Shall we be found weak,
because others are so ? Shall the world laugh that the Mexi-
can Empire fell before the mandate of others ?  No, no ! whis-
per as I have done, since first I knew you, my husband, " thank
God for your birth! Life -life, Maximilian; there is strength
in the word! " You still live, and the Empire lives. These
troubles that beset us now, will soon be past. Let me but see.

the Emperor of France, and I pledge myself that all shall go
well with us again."
The moonlight fell full upon the beautiful face of the young
Empress, and as Maximilian turned, and .looked upon her, he
drew her, by a sudden impulse, close to his heart. "Carlotta,
my wife," he exclaimed, "I cannot give you up ! I cannot
let you go from me ! You have ever been my right hand, and
my heart clings to you now ; but yet, if I could but feel that
you were safe, that you were going to Miramar, I could bear
to say adieu, feeling even as I do, that it will be forever !
But to know that you go to France -to know that the Em-
press of Mexico, nay - that even the wife of Prince Maximilian
should stand before Louis Napoleon- to supplicate, as he will
term it ! "
"Supplicate ?" cried the Empress. "Nay! he will not so
mistake; to demand of him the obligations he owes to Mexico!
Maximilian, I must go; I cannot rest here. Napoleon, we
know, is a man of policy ; but then he is but a man, with a
human heart. I cannot believe that he fully understands how
much depends here upon the French assistance. Maximilian,"
she added, earnestly, "you give your consent that I go -that
I start at once? "
" Carlotta -my wife," said the Emperor again, tenderly, "it
is a long voyage, and -"
"All contingencies and inconveniences are with me," inter-
rupted the young Empress, earnestly. General Castillo, Count
de Bombells, Madame Del Barrio, and others can accompany me.
Maximilian, I claim your permission, not as your wife -not as
Carlotta - but as the Empress of Mexico, to sacrifice personal
feelings for the good of her kingdom and her people ! "
"Empress of Mexico ! " exclaimed Maximilian, as if inspired
with sudden determination, "you are right ! As husband and
wife we may not be torn apart, but as the Emperor and. Em-
press of Mexico we each have a work to perform. Yes!I.
Empress of Mexico, may God bless your mission! May He
keep you safely; and may He permit the Emperor of Mexico;
to survive or perish with his Empire!"
The Empress had knelt at his feet as his words of blessing
came; and now, as he drew her up again to his side, and her eyes
sought his, theywere filled with tears.
"Carlotta!" exclaimed the young husband, as he pressed her
fervently to his heart, "let us each remember, if this should be
our parting forever, that beyond the boundaries of this world

CROWN JEWELS,               311,


CRW WFJEWELS.

813

there is a spirit-land, where the one that goes first shall wait
and watch for the'other."
" Maximilian," whispered the wife, "if it should be you,
promise me that you will call my spirit there ;-that we shall
not be divided long ? "
" Carlotta, Carlotta! my heart is faltering at being even here
without you. I am almost ready to recall the words that have
made me desolate!"
"Then,"said Carlotta, softly, "the Empress of Mexico must
leave before your permission is withdrawn. Remember, the
spirit of your wife, of Carlotta, will ever be near you!  Good.
ni ht!"
He pressed her again and again to his heart, while a silence
too holy, an affection too deep for words stole between them.
Carlotta raised his hand. to her lips; a moment more, and her
white dress fluttered through the doorway, and the husband
and Emperor was alone.
What was it that glistened upon his hand, as he turned tow-
ards the moonlight?  A tear-drop ; the pearl of the Peri; and
as the husband kissed it away, there welled up from the fountain
within his soul, as if sent with greeting to this messenger, a
crystal as pure, that mutely told of love, devotion, and suffering.
The sacrifice bad been made. Yes, let her go, and bid her
God speed ! It was enough, if she be spared the scenes of woe,
that her woman's heart, though strong and noble, could scarcely
stand ;for this night, with a kind of second-sight, the Emperor
Maximilian saw -dimly it may be, into the future; saw and
felt, that he had given up life and happiness forever. But his
resolve was taken, - "he would never leave Mexico."
When the moonbeams whispered to the flowers in the gar-
den, "Twelve o'clock, and all's, well," the Emperor went out
from his cabinet with a smile of triumph on his face. He had
left behind in that chamber everything, save a heart that could
unflinchingly say, -
.     "Now, men of steel, work forth your will,
For I can suffer and be still;
for, comes it s1ow, or comes it fast,
It is but death that comes at last."
He now could look into the stern, unchanging eyes of Fate,
with a glance of defiance that would rob her of the triumph
of her victory!t

CHAPTER XXXVIL

jORE than six months had passed away since the new
year had brought to Inez the sorrow so peculiarly
ournful and harrowing. Giving up her position at.
the palace, her life had been passed since at her uncle's,1in retire-
ment and seclusion. It was lonely enough in the great, gloomy
old house now ; with only Afita,all through the day --still
the same loving, tender mother -yet living more than ever
in the reahuis of the past.  In the evenig, Don Ruy would
sit with them on the corridor overlooking the court-yard, and
in his stately fashion discuss the 'troubles of the Empire, and
usually throw  away his last cigar to anathematize the Em-
peror of France and the United States. There were relief days
to Inez now and then, from this dead-calm kind of existence,
when the Empress would send a special request for a private
visit, and she would go to Chepujtepec, or the national palace,
as the case might be, and for a day or more would taste the
pleasures of their former companionship. Only once, when
with her, had the Empress ventured timidly upon the names
of Giulian and Count Isolani; but the spasm of pain that
flashed across Inez's face, and the pallor that followed, told her
that there was some hidden sorrow that was kept sacred even
from her; and though she felt that Count Isolani's resignation
at the palace connected itself with Inez, and hoped thAtIhe
future would bring all things right, she thought it best tQolet
Time direct their destinies, without the interference of eVen;
those who loved them best.
From Chepultepec, filled with memories of one whom it was
a sin to think of now, Inez always brought home t saddened
heart. The vow that she had iade in the hour of bitter grief;
with Giulian's dead hand in hers -that she-would devote her
life to his memory - she believed to be recorded in heaven; and
she believed that its keeping would affect her e ernal salvation.
Giulian's death, coming so terribly and tragi ly, seemed a
punishment, a judgment, for the unfaithfulnes 'of her heart ;
and as he had died for her, ivhat sacrifice could she esteem
too great to make for him?  Her happiness here, her prayers
and vigils, seemed a poor, pitiful offering compared with his.
14

312

ORO   191 WBL So


CROWN JEWL&amp;

CROWN J.WEL&amp; .

And so she went on, as she trusted, straight forward in the
path of duty. Each morning found her at an old convent near
her uncle's, kneeling with the solemn Sisters at the gray dawn,
and whispering her morning mass, never forgetting to plead in
her heart for the repose of the soul of the dead-of her dead.
Anita and herself had kept the knowledge of Giulian's mur-
derer within their own hearts. Its disclosure could do no good,
and they.believed that Juan's punishment for his wicked deeds
would come sooner or later without their influence, - if not in
this world, in the one where all must be judged, and give
account for the sins of the body.
As the months dragged themselves along, a change seemed to
creep over Inez. Her proud, high nature grew subdued and
though there was the same brilliant intellect, the same beautiful
face, there was a softness, a gentle sadness, in her bearing, that
told she bore a cross, and bore it unmurmuringly. She was
trying to purify her soul, so that duty and pleasure would walk
together. Yet, there were hours when a wicked fiend would
whisper a name that she tried to forget ; and would tell per
tauntingly, that her outward devotion was only a Pharisaical
cloak; that in her heart she loved Victor Isolani-loved him as
a woman can only love once in a lifetime ; and then, on her
knees, in the presence of her God, she would renew her vow -
would plead for the power to say, " Get thee behind me, Satan ! "
And sometimes it seemed to her that the answer would come,
softly whispered, " Daughter, be of ,good cheer ; thou shalt be
given strength, even as thou art tempted, to overcome."
It had been just a month since Inez had gone to the Castle
St Chepultepec, to say "farewell" to her friend and Empress,
on the eve, of her departure for Europe, just a month since she
had knelt in the dim twilight in the little chapel by her Maj-
esty's side, and whispered their last' prayer together ; just a
month since she promised to watch and pray for the Emperor,
while his guardian spirit was away.
Since the Empress's departure, a new sense of loneliness had
come over her. Another that she had leaned on, was gone; and
she began to think that this. earth-life was only a dreary pil-
grimage, after all, where every joy had its sister sorrow, where
every day of feasting, its night of mourning.
Another trial, too, had come -one that shehad prayed to be
spared, -one that raised anew the struggle within her heart.
Immediately upon the Empress's2 departure, the Emperor had
recalled Count Isolani, and had appointed him an officer on his

staff. He had been more than two weeks in the capital, and
Inez had not seen him, though, had there been none to tell
her of his arrival, the communion that one spiriteven on earth
holds with a kindred one would 'have found a messenger by
whom to send its greeting. A week before, Inez had been sit-
ting in the drawing-room by the window, looking out at the shift-
ing train that came and went, when suddenly a party of officers
came riding by, and as they touched their hats in token of re-I
spect, there was one who turned his face towards her.'
It took but one glance to tell -Inez who- it was, and it took
but one bound of her heart to tell her that it had burst the
fetters with which she had tried to bind it. She had seen
him -Victor Isolani-only a moment, and it was enough !
He had given- her not even a smile.of welcome -only a long,
earnest gaze upward to where she sat; and she felt a cruel pain
as the thought came that, perhaps, he had forgotten his love
for her - perhaps Time had turned it into another channel.
It would not do ; there was her solemn vow, whose burning
words seemed to mock her now. She could not keep- it faith-
fully, and remain here - could not-breathe the same air, be cov-
ered by the same circle of blue sky, and keep his image .shut out
from her heart as she ought to do. They must leave the capi,
tal, must go back tothe old home at Querataro, so long deserted,
and there, perhaps, her penance-life would seem less bitter.
Inez. found no difficulty in inducing Anita to consent to
leave Mexico at once. Often before had she longed to return
to the quietude of their own home, and had kept back the wish,
because she thought Inez happier near to Giulian; but now she
gladly seconded the proposition, that they should go at once to
Querataro ; and notwithstanding Pon Ruy's violent opposition
and terrible picture of his own loneliness, it was arranged that
before another week they should leave the capital.
It had come to the day before their departure. The morning
had seen-Inez,.as usual, with the Sisters at mass. To them, she
had whispered "Farewell," and the afternoon she would devote
to the duty that seemed most sacred to her soul;- her vesper
prayers must be said beside Giulian's grave ; her heart's last
offering must be to him. She had not been to the little ceme-
tery where his ashes lay, since the war had begun in.her heart-
the spirit with the flesh; and there was a-shrinking feelihignow,
as if she were hardly: worthy to go near the sleeping dead.
But putting aside all voices that tempted her away, as the shad
ows began to lengthen eastward, Inez found herself at the gate

815

$14


a18             CR1OWS JEWELS.

of the Panteon de Santa Maria. As she entered, and made her'
way past the little chapel, between the graves, to the spot where
Giulian rested, in her long mourning veil, with the folds of her
black dress sweeping aboutoher, a basket of flowers in her hand,
she seemed indeed a Sister of Mercy, bearing a tribute to the
dead.
For a long time Inez sat in silence, her basket by her side,
and her white hands clasped about her knees. In the solitude
that hung about the sacred spot, her mind ran back over the
days of her life that were past, and those that were to come -
so dreary, so lonely, so desolate ! If Giulian had lived, perhaps
she might have been happy with him, but he was taken away ;
and instead of content, she was left only the cold companion.
ship of duty. Ah! what a mockery to her seemed life at that
moment; and how she wearied at the thought of the long road
that seemed to stretch out between herself and that land where
all thing are earnest and true'? Would God take away her
cross there, and would he give her a crown instead?  Though
she had, been tempted to stray-perhaps from the 'right; though
at this moment she felt that it was hard that she should live in
the same world with the one who could give her happiness, and
never hear his voice,-she was willing to make the sacrifice;
willing to say, that, for the' sake of duty, and of heaven, she
would never look into his face again, and would try and forget
him.
Inez-leaned forward, and took up the wreaths that she had
last placed on the grave. They were withered and dead, and
fell in crisped pieces from her hand.
"So it is," she murmured, as she brushed them aside, and
placed the fresh flowers she had brought in their stead; " all
that is earthly fadeth away."
There' was a step near her; she had not heard it before, but
she fel now that some one stood on the other side, and was
looking down upon "her. That indefinable mesmeric link or
curre4 'that connects, and flows from one soul into another,
told h e who it was, and she dared not lift her' eyes.
"Inez" he said 'at last, in the deep tones she knew so well,
"Inez, I am here;, have you no word of welcome ? "
Shezaidmherhaid upon herheart to stillits tumultuous beating;
but thewords that she would have spoken died upon her lips.
"'Inez,"he said again, "'we have met at the right' place.
G4iiliaf was our' brother. Look up, and say to me that I am
welconte !

" Welcome? 'Count-Isolani," she said at last, as she raised
her eyes and they met his ; "ought I to welcome you? .Is it
right that we should have met -'even; here?  I dare not say
that-you are welcome '
" No, no, Inez; it is a guardian spirit that watches over our
happiness that has brought us together.' An impulse that I
could not' control led me here this evening, perhaps with the
hope that I should find you; orat least,,I feltthat you had con-
secrated this spot by your presence. Oh ! if you only knew
the battles I have fought and won with any :on. heart since
the night of our parting in the garden at Chepultepec ! If you
only knew the'hours of anguish and agony I have passed in
the dreary camp-life, when I knew that you were to be another's
-lost to me forever -with no ear, no heart, to which my
grief might be confided ! How I prayed that the hand, even of
an enemy, might do me the kind office-of Brutus' servant! 'But I
Guilian was taken and I was left.! God knows my mourning
over his death' was sincere!1 Never, as I am an honest man,
until I saw your face again, did I whisper to-myself that "his
loss might be my gain."  When the Emperor recalled me from
General Meija more than a month since, even then my resolu-
tion to be true to the memory of my friend 'did not falter. But
only a week since I saw you! It was enough. I ask you now,
Inez,' as I have asked myself each. hour of the days that are
gone, is it wrong to grasp the prize of happiness when it seems
so near? is it wrong that we should love 'each otherwhen noth-
ing stands between. What is there to part us, now?"
Inez 'was silent; and while the tears fell upon: her dress, she
pointed simply to the-flower-wreathed grave.
"Giulian?" cried the Count earnestly, as'1e noted the action.
"Does not your own heart tell you he'was ohr brother?  If in
life he had known the truth, would not  he himself have placed
your hand in mine, and said, 'Noble soul - be happy.' And can
we not believe that, if his'spirit sees us now, it 'says, although
we cannot hear it,. ' Be happy'?"
"Count Isolani," she answered, looking up intohis pleading
face," I cannot-caarnot listento.you! I can only say to you that
I am 'bound to Giulian Navarro as irmly now asrwhen he was
in life. Beside his dead body, with his handdan mine, I swore
that, as he had loved me faithfully, I would make up for all
lacking of which I had been guilty, -swore that I would per-
mitnod one to shut him out, would devote my life to his

CRO   4TE WRE S"            817


18.CRO WY JWLS.;             '.319

memory.. That vow is in God's book, and it cannot be
broken! "
"And am I to, give you up to the keeping of a rash vow?"
cried the Count, seizing her hand in his, and looking almost
fiercely int' her eyes. "Am I to go wretchedly and miserably
alone, through life without you?  Does God spare the living
only to mourn for the dead? We both loved Giulian Navarro,
but he cannot still keep us from happiness. No,no, Inez; you
must not, cannot tell me this! I claim the right of a man who
pleads,  nay, whofghts for his life, his happiness, to say that
no vows, ne power can keep you from me ! I love you, Inez
Gonzales! and my claims, living, are greater than Giulian
Navarro's, dead!"
There was something almost desperate in his voice, and he
would havedrawn her.towards him, but she put him back.
Ah, In~z," he exclaimed; "this is cruel, cruel ! "
"Count fsolani," she said, very calnly at first, but growing
- more passionate and earnest as she went on, " you do not, you
cannot, know all there is to keep us from each other ! You can-
not know i ow, neither may I tell you, why it is that Guilian
Navarro's death binds me to him more solemnly than before. -I
cannot tell you how it was, that hi. love for me brought him
here tohis grave ; and that with him and me, it is 'a life for a
life;' mine belongs to him and I cannot give it to another.
This is a mystery now," she added bitterly; "but believe me, if
there comes a time when it is right, you shall know all; but
trust me! By your love for me, Victor Isolani, help me to
be strong in this trial hour! To-morrow, I go away to Quera-
taro, my own home-; and pray God,-if it be wrong, we may
never meet again!"
"This is cruel, cruel ! " was all-that he could say, mournfully,
despairingly
" Cruel, Count Isolani? " she exclaimed earnestly, pressing
her hands tight over her face, as if to shut out some dread thought
or vision. "Oh! not to you alone !. Do ,you think it costs
me nothing to" turn away from you-to give up happiness, to
choose darkness, rather than life and joy? - Oh, trust me, trust
me ! I dare ot look into your face, dare not stay where I may
hear your voice! Trust me when I go away, that it is right,
and -forget-me "!
A haggard look of despair crept into his face as she spoke, and
when she had finished it seemed as if a hundred winters had
rolled over his soul. There was a great struggle within, but .

the voice that spoke out was that of a man calm in the face of
death. " Inez," he said at last, taking her hand in his, "I
do trust you; whatever this may be that so strangely controls
us both, I know not ; but if your heart tells you it is right, I
accept it. We must part-I cannot say nay ; but forget you?
Never ! till this heart forgets to beat. Do you know what it
is to wrestle day after day with an earthly worship that you
doubt is right, and find yourself each returning evening before
the same shrine, worshiping still:? Do you know what it has
cost me, to keep away from you these months past, what it- will
cost me in these months, nay - these years to come ? And yet,
you say we must never see each other more!"
Never to see him more ! God help her ! There was dark-
ness-in the thought. The years would!comie, the years would go,
and it would be all the same ; never -never to' see him more.
"No, Inez, it will not be so. Sometime down the future, I feel
it here," laying his hand on his heart, "since we each have said
adieu to happiness, -though you go away now,--sometime, I
know not when, nor where, but when: I shall-have sore need of
you, you will come to me; perhaps for a day perhaps for an
hour; but you will come. That hope;-the looking'for that time,
will lead me on, through the'dreary path that stretches before
me now."
"No, no, Count Isolani, you must forget- forget, and let
happiness come to you again! Only remember, when you are in
the world, that there is-another, brighter and more glorious than
this, where here is no, sorrow, no parting;--- and there'isone
who prays, in whatever'path. you; tread, that God.may' lead you,
that you may enter His Kingdom at last.. This, (Jount Isolani,
is all I ask you to remember. Forget the face of Inez Oonzales
until in heaven God' says, ' Look.! "
"And this-this" is-6ur parting ! " he whisperedas all hope
died out of his voice. "Give me your hand again;' let me
press you once to my heart, and' call you mine; and then-
pity me, pity me ! My own !i though hopeless atnd despairing, ii
thank God that I have known you; that I have loved you, for I
have felt, through your influence, my soul has ,grown more
tender. This love for you has made it greater, and the suffer-
ing now. will take away the dross.  I shall keep the love still
there, for it will show me the heavenward path.. It is a bitter
thing, Inez, to press down under the coffin lid all' earthly joy;
but perhaps the joy of meeting you 'up there,''where you shall
.be mine, will help me to strive more earnestly to reach the

AP

318

CROW. JEFTL :


320           CROWN JEWELS.

ROWN JEWELS.              321

Celestial City."  An instant his voice faltered, and he heard a
low, suppressed sob.
"Inez," he whispered, tenderly lifting her head, and looking
into her face, "when you are gone away from me, pray God that-
He may send his Death-angel soon; -pray that He will not let
us drag out many weary years apart."
He pressed her tenderly to his heart. The sun had sunk to
its western grave, and the moment of parting had come.
"Give ne, before you go, Inez, your blessing," said Count
Isolani at last, as she drew away from him. " Let ne* kneel
here before you lay; your hand on my head, and say to me, ' Vic-
tor Isolani, may God bless and keep you!-'"'
He knelt before her, and her soft hand rested upon the dark
waves of brown hair. Slowly and solemnly, in a voice half
broken by' tears, the words came,- "Victor Isolani, may God's
blessing r st upon. you; may He keep -you under the shadow
of His wing, and give you a reward at last."  She leant over
and whispered, ",Farewell! "
"Farewell! "he murmured, as he still knelt before her. The
words were so mournful and despairing; they seemed the echoes
of a spirit lost to hope forever.
She left him kneeling there beside the grave, and though a
moment later le had risen up, he still lingered. The compan-
ionship of hedead around suited him well; for now, there was
nothing fqr him to look forward. to but the time when death
should come to set him free. It was a holy sacrifice he had
made to the memory of his friend. He would have gone to
battle and given his life for Giulian. But to-day, he had done
more. "The soldier's trial task is' not to die."  But he bore
with him 4ow the memory of her love; and he believed that her
image, enshrined as that of an angel pure and holy in his heart,
would help him to purify himself of earthly dross, would make
him more worthy of her in heaven.
Twilight closed around the little cemetery; it was growing
so dusky, hat Count Isolani could not see the graves about
him. A tny star-beam glinted against the gold lace of his uni-
form, but quickly hid its face again. He could not see the
flowers Inz had placed upon Giulian's grave ; all, all that
spoke to h  of her was gone, and in darkness and sorrow he
too went a ay.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
HE Empress Carlotta had at last arrived at Paris _ IFor
weeks past, the French capital had- been alive with
speculations concerning the future of'the Mexican Em-
pire, whose affairs grew of more interest each 4ay.
The change of policy on the part of the Emperor Napoleon, as
developed in the answer to General-Almonte, had given rise to
two parties ; one, full of sympathy  and feeling for the noble
young Prince and Princess, who had led them to .put too much
trust in royal promises, declared aloud, the treachery -...for they
could call it by no gentler name -of the French Emperor to
be a stigma on the escutcheon of France. And on the contrary,
there were not wanting those, who, priding themselves on their
prescience and patriotism, cried out in praise of the "wisdom
of their monarch in withdrawing from Mexico before she ruined
France."  But neither party was prepared for the-startling
news that the Empress of Mexico had actually landed at St.
Nazaire, and in a few hours would be in Paris, to -seek herself
an interview with the Emperor Napoleon.
Yes, it was true! Brave, womanly spirit, she, had with he-
roic fortitude left the side of the one w'ho was her shield and
strength, and with only her- Minister, M. Castillo, a single
lady of honor, her old friend Count de Bombells, and one or
two others of her suite, had crossed the ocean, and was at last
in the Great City of Europe.
. It was but an hour since she had arrived t the "Grand
Hotel." The long weary voyage was over ; -but- he anxietycon-
cerning the accomplishment of her mission,  at had made the
hours at'sea seem so tedious, and the days o double length, now
increased. The hope that buoyed up her s ul, that had moved
her to take the burden upon herself, now, s' ce she Wialmost,
face to face with the hour and the man, seem d about t falter,
and in the effort to keep her spirits up, to  eep her faith in
herself unshaken, her nerves had assu - an unnatural ten-
sion, that was telling on her mind an health.
Without an hour's delay, imrfedi tely upon her arrival, the
Empress had sent to demand an interview with the Emperor
14*


CROWNc JEWELS.

of Frande, who, with the royal family was at the Palace of
St. Clou4, some distance from the city ; and she now, in her
apartmet, awaited the answer.
Your Majesty needs rest more than anything," said Ma-
dame deli Barrio, her lady of honor, who sat watching her with
anxiety, s she trod the length of the apartment with restless
impatien e. "Will you not give one hour to sleep?".
"=Rest Sleep ! Madame," said the Empress, stopping suddenly
in front of her, and looking at her. strangely, " with such a
turmoil ere," placing her hand upon her heart; "would you
tell me t thrust my hand in the flames, and then say to me,
'Sleep  hile it burns'?  Alas!" added she, as she- turned
away an began again her walk, "rest and sleep belong to happy
childhoo , not to men and women with cares that murder re-
pose! ' Sleep no more ; Macbeth does murder sleep!'"
For a moment the Empress stopped beside the window, and
looked out upon the boulevard that ran in front of the Hotel.
For a moment she pressed her hands together tightly upon her
brow, an1 then again turning to Madame, she exclaimed, _
"No, o ! I must see the Emperor of France ! They are
waiting ver yonder to hear, and I must not delay. M. Cas-
tillo tarries, does he not?"
There was an unnatural gleam in the dark eyes, a wildness
in the Enpress's manner, that Madame del Barrio could not-un-
derstand, and, as she noted the crimson flush on her cheek, she
again be ought her, as she valued her health, to compose her-
self until the morrow:  Though she knew the Empress was
of a pec liarly nervous and excitable temperament, she .had
never seen her before so completely under the influence of emo-
tion and impulse, as she had been during the last few days,
and she dreaded the idea of her seeing the Emperor of France
while in this unnatural"state of mind. But it was- useless to
urge the Empress.' She had but one answer to every argument:
"I must see the Emperor of France ! "
There was a rap et the door of the adjoining salon, and the
chamberlain announced M. Castillo.
"So you have -come at last, M. Castillo ? " said the Empress,
going in to meet him, and scarcely noting his salutation; " and
what do you bring to us from his Majesty at St. Cloud?" she
added, with a curl of the lip.
" Your Majesty," said M. Castillo, exchanging a troubled
glance with Madame del Barrio, "1I have but. come to beg you
to postpone this interview --"

"M. Castilo!" said the Empress impatiently, "are yu to
dictate the course I shall pursue ?  If you are too much fa-
tigued to accompany me, I can go alone to see the Emperor of
France. Tell me, what is his message to us?"
"Your pardon, my Empress," said M. Castillo, seeing that
she could brook nothing now; "it was only my anxiety--"
"I understand," said the Empress; "but give us this mes-
sage."
"M. Dhrouyn de. L'Huys, the Minister of Foreign Affairs,
~will call upon your Majesty to-morrow."
"iM. Dhrouyn de L'Huys, the Minister !t" cried -the Em-
press no longer able to control herself. "M. Dhrouyn de
LHuys ! And does Louis Napoleon think to put the Empress
of Mexico off with his Minister? Tell me, M. Castillo, all that
Napoleon says to our demand- yes, our demand for an inter-
view."
"The Emperor of France," said M. Castillo, "through his
chamberlain, begs leave to express his regret to your. Majesty,
that indisposition will prevent his giving the desired audi-
ence."
"Indisposition! " exclaimed the Empress, as she turned her,
flashing eyes full upon M. Castillo; and then, as ifto give
vengt to her emotion, beginning hurriedly to walk the apartment.
" Louis Napoleon offers this insult to me ! And did his Ma-
jesty condescend to mention whether it is indisposition of mind,
. or of body-? A flimsy veil he attempts to throw about him-
self ! No, M. Castillo," continued the Empress, stopping near
him, "we cannot be put off in this way. We must see this
French Emperor to-day. Does his indisposition affect him so
seriously that he forgets even to be courteous ? Does he send
a court-carriage to us?"
" The carriage is below, at your Majesty's, command," said
M. Castillo; "but let me beseech you," he added, giving way
again to his anxiety for the Empress, and willing to meet her
anger, since he knew that the fever in her veins had unnerved
her, "in the name of the Emperor Maximilian, who charged
me that I should guard you from all evil, do not go to St.
Cloud to-day. Your Majesty is not strong enough. You can-
not do as much for Mexico, as if you were yourself. Rest to-
day, my Empress, and to-morrow -to-morrow -we shall
make everything right ! "
M. Castillo's earnest words, and tender care for her health

, ~M,, -  .

:323

322

CEO WN JEJ LS.


824         ,ROWN3WLS.

were unheeded. The Empress, with her hert full of indigna.
tion, resolve, and determination, was inflexible.
"No! M. Castillo; delay is useless. I-do not fear to meet
Napoleon. I am strong enough, since I have Right on my side.
I shall not mock his ear with empty courtesies or compliments.
The daughter of the House of Orleans does not come to sue
for favors from this Bonaparte-but to demand justice! I will
joill you below, M. Castillo, in a few moments, andweilgo
at once to St. Cloud."
M. Castillo left the salon, and a half-hour, later he handed
the Empress (attired in simple travelling costume, with nought
to proclun her rank) into the carriage, and taking his place
beside her, they were soon rolling through the streets of Paris,
in the direction of the Palace so famous in history.
St. Cloud! name inseparably connected with the House of
Bonaparte ! It was there that the great hero, with the iron
will and determination of a Cromwell, dissolved the Convention
of Five Hundred, turned out the members, and made-fast the
door. Versailles, sacred to the memory of the hapless pair
whose devotion to their subjects was rewarded after the manner
of French gratitude -Versailles'! with its fountains and groves,
stands, only as the Mecca of appreciative travellers, who love
the name of Marie Antoinette. But St. Cloud -that tells of
triumph to the House of Bonaparte, is still the scene of dis.-
play, of pomp and splendor, as a summer palace, with Napoleon
III.
As the carriage, bearing the Empress of Mexico and her
minister, rolled through the beautiful garden that surrounds
thepalace, the grounds were filled with visitors, who, wandering
here and there, stopping beside the double cascade, whose wa-
ters kept up their ceaseless flow, at last, for. a moment, forgot to
wonder and admire, as they watched the court-carriage, that
was now drawing up in front of the palace.
With obsequious courtesy, the Empress Carlotta and M.
Castillo were shone into the grand reception-room; the former
simply announcing herself as " the Empress of Mexico, who
desired ah ininediate audience with the Emperor Napoleon."
"His    ajesty the Emperor will have the honor of seeing
the Empress of Mexico in his private cabinet," was the answer
which thechamberlain returned, a few moments later ;a~nd,
breeding; them, he led the way from the reception room to
the cabinIt, where Napoleon awaited them.
"he Empress Carlotta is welcome to France" said the Em-.

peror rising, and cowing forward with extended hand, as the
Empress and M. Castillo were announced. With an inflation
towards the Minister, he again resumed his seat. "We trust,
your Majesty, that the Archd uke - the Emperor Maxiiiiian
- enjoys the blessing of health ?"
"It is to bear the thanks of the Emperor Maxnnlian
said the Empress, who had seated herself upon a handsome di-
van that stood near, and who only-noticed the Edperor's un-
fortunate blunder over her husband's title, by assummng a kau-
tewr foreign to her native affability, "to bear his thanks to
your Majesty for your good wishes, that I fid myself in
France. We regret that our stay in Paris is. so limited that
we could not put aside the necessity of an audience until your
Majesty had quite recovered from indisposition."  A slight
smile curled the Emperor's lip, as he noted the sarcasm lurking
in Carlotta's words, but he went on toying with the pearl paper-
cutter, that lay on the table beside him. "The Emperor Maxi-
milian has been sorely puzzled- of late," continued the Em-
press, "to determine whether the expressions of good-will to
himself, had not missed their way from the Cabinet of the
United States, and from mere force of habit found themselves
in Mexico."
"Indeed ? "'said the Emperor, perfectly imperturbable and
unmoved. " No ; the Emperor may-feel satisfied. M. Dhrouyn
de L'Huys, takes care of our friendship with the United,
States.
Piqued at the indifference of Napoleon, and finding that her
arrows glanced, without the least impression, from the coat
of mail in which he seemed morally clad, Carlotta impulsively
exclaimed,-
"But the time has come, your Majesty, when words alone
cannot be taken as the true test of feeling and intention;
when something more than empty compliments are necessary;
and as your Majesty's actions towards the Mexican Empire re-
cently have been of doubtful bearing, the Emperor Maxirmbian
is free to confess the anxiety he feels -concerning"the treaties
with France, upon which he has hitherto relied with so much
faith."
" Madame," said the Emperor, as she paused a moment for
reply, "the Emperor Maximilian has grown- no more uneasy
or, anxious upon this subject; than we ourselves. We scarcely
think Mexico can complain of France, in regard to failure of

CR0 WN JEWIilLS.             25

t


326  |.CROWN. JEWELS

CRO WfIJEWELS.

treaties and promises, when she remembers her own extr me
dereliction."
,Mexico," said the Empress, her eyes catching fire, " points
to the second article of. the Treaty of Miramar, which guaran-
tees that the troops furnished by France should'not be with..
drawn, until the Emperor of Mexico should be able to organ-
ize others to take their place. It is to ask the keeping of this
-stipulation, which is now of vital importance to Mexico, that
I have come to France, and to your Majesty. I demand no
more than justice, when I insist that France should adhere to
the original articles of agreement."
"Madame," said the Emperor, quite unmoved, "if we go to
this Treaty of Miramar, we must take it as a whole: Mexico
must not ignore her promise therein, concerning the indemni-
fication of France; The Emperor Maximilian, in complaining
of us, and of failure on our part, seems to forget that France
has but incompletely received the compensation due her, for
the great assistance and aid she has lent to the Mexican Em-
pire.
And what is the amount of the present indebtedness of
Mexico to France ?" replied the Empress, an expression of.
contempt stealing over her face. " Four hundred thousand
francs ! What was it when the Empire was established ?
Twelve millions ! Mexico has then, done at least something
towards securing France. The Emperor Maximilian forget,
French claims !" continued Carlotta, rising, as her 'feelings
seemed to grow intense and bitter with, her words. "Not
while the Emperor of France lives to remind him of them,
and to thrust them upon him, and fling them in his face upon
occasions seemly and unseemly ! I tell you, Emperor Napo-
leon," stopping before him, and bending her large dark eyes,
full of fire and spirit, earnestly upon him, "if the Emperor
Maximilian could turn every drop of blood in his veins,-
yea, if the Empress of Mexico, who stands before you to-day,
couldchange the fountain of life in her heart to golden sover-
eigns, to cast into the treasury of France, then would these
clamorings cease! We should hear no more of French claims,
and Church claims, which, with indecent haste, were urged for-
payment upon the Emperor Maximilian, before his foot pressed
the soil of his Empire. Give me some Midas power, and, even
at the price' of my own life, France shall be- satisfied, though
Mexico be ruined !" -The Empress was growing strangely ex-
citegI. There was a wild abasndon in her manner, a desperate

despair in her words, that startled M. Castillo. Something, he
could see, was nerving the'Empress for the moment, and he
dreaded a reaction, that might prostrate her, mentally and physi-
cally. Forgetting almost the presence of Napoleon, he half-
way started forward to the Empress.
" Your Majesty," --he began, as if to intercede with her
for herself; but, with a motion of the hand, Carlotta waved
him to be seated again; -and then, placed her hand upon her
heart as if to still its beatings, which were growing painfully
tumultuous.
"Your. Majesty," said the Emperor Napoleon, endeavoring
in vain to conceal the momentary admiration he felt for the
noble sentiment of the woman who stood so proudly before
him, "you are hardly the proper person with whom to discuss
these perplexing and intricate questions."  His tones were full
of respectful courtesy and feeling. " Your Majesty is worn
out with a long voyage," he added, " and such unusual excite-
ment is not well for your health. Let me beg that you leave
these matters to be arranged between M. Castillo and my-
self."
"The Empress of Mexico is indebted for the consideration
expressed for her health ; but she is the best judge of her course,
of action, and the consequences are with her. No, your Maj-
esty," she added, " I have come to France as the Ambassador,-
truly extraordincire-of the Empire, and these points must be
discussed and arranged with no other. Shall we proceed ?"
"Not before I beg thatyour Majesty be seated," said the
Emperor calmly, as he saw Carlotta was determined ; and, rising
he offered a chair near the green - covered table. "There
is no need, your Majesty," he continued, again, resuming his
own seat, "to go back to the origin of the French expedition;
and yet, perhaps, a-little introspection. and retrospection 'may
help us to make some sound conclusions. But" said the Em-
peror, suddenly pausing; as he looked up at the Empress, " it is
very disagreeable to inflict these things upon your Majesty."
" That is nothing-nothing," said the Empress carelessly, as,
with an inclination of her person, she assumed an air of painful
attention, and motioned the Emperor to proceed.
" I beg your Majesty to ask yourself the. simple'question,"
said the Emperor, 'What it was, that first induced France to
take any actionin Mexican affairs? It was for the redress of
grievances and offences, both personal and national. . Not the
least of . these grievances was the immense amount -due to

327


CR0WN JEWEL&amp;                829

French objects, and those who claimed the, protection of the
Imperial ag. After the first expedition to Mexico, by Eng-
land, Sp'Sp , and France, it was quickly discerned that the
promises president Juarez, and the Republic, were empty
not so m''ch, perhaps, from want of -faith, but of ability to
fulfil the9  The country was then, and has ever been, so torn
by ranarchy and civil commotion, that its revenues were mere-
ly=nom   , and its vast resources were. locked, as it were, in a
sealed mirne. Moved.no less by the appeals of Mexican patriots,
than by' a'ixiety for her own subjects, who had suffered at
the hands of Mexico, and feeling that she- had a mortgage
upon Me"co, and had. a right to foreclose it ; and believing,
moreover, strongly in the regenerative element she believed
to be in e 'stence. there,-France undertook to do, not only
to Mexic9, but the whole world, a service, by building her
up through  the 'influence of the Latin race. The enterprise
was admitted to be a grand one, worthy of success. The Em-
pire was established, and the Archduke Maximilian was called
to the chisf rulership. Full of chivalry and .noble daring,
generous   pulses, and elevated ideas of doing his fellow-men
good; no1.ing daunted by the dangers and difficulties which he
knew woul4 beset his path,- the Archduke accepted; and most.
nobly and courageously has he, by his untiring devotion, vin-
dicated h' manhood."
The Eni eror paused a moment, for he saw a tear-drop fall
upon the  hite jeweled hand that lay on the table. He looked
up, but the dark eyes were turned away, 'and he knew that
their bright ness was dimmed. Carlotta's mind, as she listened
to the las words of the Emperor, had gone back over the two
toilsome. y are they had spent in Mexico. She thought of Maxi-.
milian, his elf-abnegation, his earnest working, days. and nights ;
and then _4e remembered the birth-night at Chepultepec, and
his despai ' g words rang in her ears, "Better is the day of a
man's deat , than that of his birth!" 'Devotion! nay, call
it immolation, and the truth was nearer.
Carlotta brushed away the tear ; and turned again ,to the
Emperor.
"Madame," said he, tenderly considerate, as he looked into'
the youngbeautifulface, bearing such traces of care and anx-
iety, " youk husband is a noble man; and is not wanting in
ability to complish anything, when the event rests with him-
self alone, addepends for success solely on his exertions. The
failure of t~eMexican Empire lies not at his door, but with

the Mexican people themselves. They will not sustain any
Government- Republic, or Empire; nor any ruler, be it. Pres
dent or Emperor. They have never done it yet. They hare
been fairly tested in these past four years. They-will never do
it in the future."
A ray of hope crept into Carlotta's,-heart, and beamed for
an instant in her eyes, as in the Emperor's kindly words. she
seemed to gather an unbending ofhissiron nature. . A drown-
ing man will catch a straw, and in the. darkest hour of despair
we eagerly cry. out to ourselves," The day cometh!" at the
faintest glmmer of even an ignis fatuus, that may be chancing
by us. Far in the distance, at this moment, the Empress. of
Mexico sa'w the dark cloud that dung over the future, faintly
lifting itself away.
Napoleon noted the change of expression, noted the glad
light that had stolen into her eyes, and by a breath he extin-
guished it. The man of the world -the Emperor ---remem-
bered his policy.
" But, Madame," he began, turning his eyes inadvertently, as
it were, towards the- ceiling, that he might not see the death
agony of hope in that nbble face, ",though the Emperor Maxi-
milian went to Mexico with the co-operation of Francepit:was
clearly understood, that it was not simply to sustain him upon
the throne, but to protect and indemnify herself-through 'his in-.
strumentality, that France lent men, money, and-infiues.c6 to
the Empi-e. We hoped to aid him in a work, which should
be of profit, not to France alone, but to the whole world.The
result has disappointed every tlng. 1exico;toilt notsbe lifted
up ; and common sense dictates to leave her='alone, to give her
over to her idols. I repeat it: the fault has not been with.
the E mperor Maximilian. As France: has.failed to be comn-
pensated for the sacrifices and disbursenents-she has nade,a it
is certainly to be expected, that she will waste no moreupon
so fruitless a speculation. It has beeniourendeavort6ampress
this point upon the Emperor Maimilianor monthspit;
we have tried to convincee him that the Empire of.MeicoWill
never be a success; nay, have ventured so faras to advise him
to follow our example, and wash his-hande of the whole matter.
He can do go ;and hold them up clean~before all men."''
The Emperor paused, and waited Carlotta'sareply..
"Have these;convictions," saidshed had7 regarding hisalast
suggestion, or seeming fllyto take inb'hisineang,  -M.-'hav
these convietions been the result of your Majesty's ownm effor-ts

328   ';       DROWN JEWEL&amp;


CROWN JEWELS.

at logic, or has not the friendly voice of the United States had
much to do with making these deductions ?"
Napoleon gave no token of the irony in her words, save a
nervous twitching of his dark moustache, and a slight contract.
tion of the brow.
"Madame," he said at length, "we fully comprehend the em-
bairassing situation of the Emperor, in Mexico, --."
" No," replied the Empress suddenly, as if again losing con.
trol of herself, as she thought of what she had left behind in
Mexico, and of all that was at stake in this interview. "No:
you, here, in Paris, with your National Guard at your command,
resting in peace, in luxury, in splendor, cannot understand it.
You cannot understand the moral effect which the wiithdrawal
of the French troops will have, not in the Western Continent.
alone, but here in Europe. It is not alone the loss of this city
and that province, which, as the French withdraw, the Juarists
will occupy ; it is the loss of prestige to the Empire ; the ap.
pearance of being deserted by France,. that will dispirit her
people, destroy confidence in the stability of the Empire, and
deal it the death-blow. The United States comes forward as
an ally of Juarez and the Republic; and at the same moment
France withdraws from the Empire, and says to her before the
'whole world; 'You will never succeed. I can help  o   o
longer ; sustain yourself if you can ! "
"No, your Majesty," said the Emperor, firmly and slowly.
"I do not say 'sustain the Empire;' 11 say to the Emperor Maxi-
milian -permit me to speak plainly  'Return to Miramar and
your rights as Archduke of. Austria.' What stands in the way
of this ? leave Mexico to herself!"
For a moment a pallor was on Carlotta's face, then the blood,
already burning with fever, coursed wildly through her veins,
and, a flush overspread her brow. Napoleon had struck a deep
chord when he gave her pride this open blow.
"And do you think, Emperor of France," she cried excitedly,
rising, "that a Prince of Austria can so easily bow his head
before the world, and take unto himself defeat and disgrace?
No ! no! Maximilian is not like this; he will never leave Mex-
ico, unless she herself bids him go., Let us hear France's final
decision. Does she leave Mexico alone to struggle in asea of
troubles ? - Does France save herself at the cost of her honor ?
When a nation violates her pledged word, she violates her
honor. What is France's decision ?"
The Empress pressed the point. She leant her hand upon

the table-and bent forward with intense earnestness, waiting as
it were for a verdict, fatal to life and happiness. M. Castillo
rose. He knew not the words she had just spoken, for his eyes
had been watching the strange look in the face of his Empress.
He had never seen that wild, disturbed manner, those terribly
nervous movements, that reckless bearing, before.
"Your Majesty," said the Emperor Napoleon, likewise rising,
as if impatient to terminate the interview, "this is all useless!
The Emperor Maximilian has our good wishes; and if his mind
is firmly fixed to remain, we trust that he may be able to ac-
complish the great work of civilization he has undertaken. We
trust that his devotion, his energy, his patriotism,'may be 're-
warded!
Carlotta had not taken her eyes from the speaker ; her lips
hardly moved, as she asked, calmly and coldly, -
"Is this the message of France to Mexico ? "
" This is the Emperor Napoleon to the Emperor Maximil-
ian," said Napoleon, stolidly. " France transmitted her message.
to Mexico through General Almonte."
All, then, was gone ! - Hope, faith,*sand justice lay murdered,
and the assassin stood before her  Carlotta could no longer
control herself; the calm iess.'that had held the storm at bay
was broken. The fever within, that she had placed her hand
upon and held back from Reason's throne, sat there now, since
the sentinel was gone, smiling triumphantly. Raising her hand
with a wild gesture, in a voice full of ~strange emotion, she
cried out to her Minister, who stood beside her,
" M. Castillo, let us go!I . Let us leave Paris, leave France
forever ! Yes, hated, detested France, whose soil -lapped up
the blood of the beautiful Marie Antoinette, and who, wolf-
like, now'scents that of another of the House - of Hapsburg!
It shall not be ! Maximilian shall not be offered a sacrifice by
the relative of a plebeian Corsican usurper !"
M. Castillo seized her Majesty's hand, and tried to lead her
towards the door; but wresting it from him, she again took
a step towards Napoleon, who stood troubled and moved, as'-he
discerned that the Empress Carlotta was stricken worse than
death.
Carlotta had drawn herself proudly up, and looking him full
in the face she exclaimed,"-
"Louis Napoleon, it was revolution that wrested the crown
from the House of Orleans, and gave it to the Corsican and his
descendants! History does but repeat itself. /Revolution may

:x

331

330

i
C1i0  JEWELS.

. i


OR0 W gY EWEg               R  E

restore; the wheel of fortune is never still. The hand of
Napoleon guides well this car of Empire, but when he lies in
the dust, who can still the voices of these French people, or
their maddening cry,, 'Long live the people'? Your hand will
be powerless to place the crown upon the head of the Prince
Imperial, and I tell you it will never rest there?"
I The Empress seemed as one inspired.- Napoleon lifted his
hand as if to shut her off, but again she spoke.
"Never again will the daughter of -Orleans be found at the
foot of the French throne! - Come, M. Castillo, let us leave
this place,-this atmosphere stifles  one with the smell of
blood. Come#!"
They were both gone, and Napoleon was left alone ! He
threw himself in his chair beside the table, and leant his head
upon his hand. Carlotta had left her spirit, aye, the beautiful
spirit that' guides this life, behind' to haunt him; and she had
gone forth in utter darkness, without hope, without reason, with.
out light !  Her life for the future aimless, pointless, worse
than blank !
In vain did the monarch in his cabinet essay to still the voices
within himself; in vain did he whisper that he had acted for
the good of France. In vainI The room was haunted; and
he called out to the spirit that brooded, bat-like therein--
"Take thy form from off my door,
Sa kethy bea from out my hearIt "
There came to him in answer, only the bitter refrain, that
nayhap will ring down the years of his life, "Nevermore,
nevermore I"

CHAPTER XXXIX.

ET us leave Paris !"
f4         Let us leave Paris ! "  M. Castillo, Madame del
Barrio, and her Majesty's devoted attendants echoed
her words, when -the painful" truth forced itself upon
them, that the Empress was terribly shaken in mind, as well as
body. With anxious care they watched every word, every
glance, and every movement; and, as the hours passed, though
the glow of intellect was still in the dark eyes, they were com-
pelled to admit that the fever was gone, and the Empress was
not the same..
All anxiety concerning their mission was lost in this absorb-
ing trouble; and in their hearts they mourned that sorrow had
put its crown of sorrow upon the beautiful lady's head.
"Let us.go to Miramar," said 'Dr. Bowslaveck, her Majesty's
physician, "and there pray God, that retirement and tender
care may restore her ! "
So they left Paris, with all its stir and bustle, all its gay-
ety and folly, all its gilded vice and hidden sin, a troubled,
anxious party. And all things went on the same, save that it
was whispered through the court circles "that the Empress Oar-
lotta had made nothing by her visit to Paris; that Mexican
affairs were growing worse, and that it was perhaps well enough
that her Majesty's health would not permit her to return there.
It would be better if the Prince Maximilian were with her
and safely across the water; for now, since France had decided
to withdraw her forces, there could be no hope for the Em-
pire!"
The morning sun had risen in beauty over the stone turrets,
over the corniced balconies, over the marble fountain in the
quiet garden, and reaching the meridian summit, with Nar-
cissus-like vanity, had gazed through the long; dreamy after-
noon .at;its own image mirrored   the clear waters of the
Adriatic beneath..'
Two years, and more, have passe sincer'Miramar faded into
dimness " o'er the waters blue ;" bu on.this.AAugust afternoon

833

332

0 RO .now


384.            URO W1 JWEL9

as we look upon it again, it stands there, - the castle still the'
same, a sentinel tower upon "a headlong rock."  Twoyears
ago, and the Novara, with pennons flying, guns sounding, and
shouts rending the air, had borne from the castled crag two
hearts beating high with hope, and pulsating firmly with ambi-
tious resolve for the future. To-day, one stricken by disappoint-
ment, saddened by grief and wounded pride, comes back alone.
There are the same "viva.s!" from true , hearts to welcome
her back; there- are the vessels from Trieste, which have come
out to meet her, bearing aloft the flags of Mexico and Austria;
there is the same blue sky above, the sunlight -rests in' quiet
brightness upon the distant hills, and gleams and glances over
the wavelets of the gulf, as of yore; but to the Empress, as she
stands upon the bow of the vessel, and waits for the mooring,
there is no pulsation of joy, no life in all around. The spirit
of happiness has gone from her heart and Miramar is forever
heneforth ; haunted with sorrowful memories, that in future
years will mock her woe with ceaseless echoes of a happy, but
a dead past !
" See ! see, your Majesty! "exclaimed the Count de Bombells,
who stood by her side, "how all nature seems to smile at your
return!  Ah! if Miramar could but find voice this moment,"
he added, merrily, "how loudly would 'she cry out for joy!"
Just at that moment, a dark cloud, that had, unperceived,'
crept up the western 'horizon, shut in the face of the sun, and
threw the beautiful landscape in front, into shadow, while the
distant sound of heaven's artillery hushed the voice of the imi-
tating guna of the squadron, and a sudden gust of wind, sweep-
ing over the gulf, caught the resisting waves in a wild em-
brace, and their frothy spray leaped up, and fell in a tiny
shower upon the deck.
" Ah! Count," said the Empress, not minding the mist of
the spray, though her ladies had retired nearer. the door of the
salon, "see how the sunlight shrinks from, and flies my pres-
ence. No, no! I bring evil to all; I am to live in the shadow;
and be haunted with phantom joys, through all the future ! "
"No, no, your. Majesty," said the Count, with an effort to
turn the drift of the Empress's thoughts, for her malady' had
taken the more quiet form of despondency and mental depres-.
sion in the last few days, and from this great hopes were enter-
tained o'f rallying her, -- "no, no ; behind the cloud the sunf still
shines. ' This is only a summer shower, and we may yet hope
for one of our grand sunsets."

"Hope, hope!" replied-the Empress, with the same dejected
air, "the Ignis Fatuussof life, that leads men into darkness and
leaves them 'in despair."
" Oh ! " continued the Count, without' seeming to. note her
bitter words, "if his Majesty were only here ! If the Emperor
Maximilian could only be with us, at the castle, through the
long, golden days that we are to pass !"
The Count's words had the effect he desired., At the men-
ti n of the Emperor's - of Maximilian's name, a look of tender
gladness stole into her eyes, and, in a tone of animated regret
yet of manifest interest in -things present, she exclaimed,
" Ah ! if he were only here! .When shall we go back to him,
Count Bombells, since he cannot come to us ?"
There was time for no more. The vessel had reached the
shore ; and the crowds that had come out from Trieste, to greet
her home, and who still waited along the beach in spite of
the threatening clouds, were pressing forward to catch a glimpse
of the young Empress's face, and were drowning all other sounds
with their boisterous shouts, "Long life -long life- to the
Empress Carlotta! Long life to the Emperor Maximilian-!."
As excitement was the one thing to be avoided with the
Empress, she did. 'not linger"'in the garden among' those who
seemed so anxious to express their love and devotion, even by
touching the hem of her garment ; but retired at -once to her
rooms in the Palace.
The crowd, satisfied that "their beautiful young Princess," as
they still called her, was again upon the soil of Germany, were
persuaded to return to the city, carrying with them, the united
sentiment, " Would that our young Prince were with her, too !
Would that they had never left Miramar ! "
The summer days passed on. Tenderly and carefully Was
the Empress Carlotta watched and guarded; all unfavorable
intelligence, or anything that could possibly affect her, was kept
back, and to the loving eyes of her ladies and her physician,
who looked so anxiously for it; a change for the better seemed
daily taking place. The cloud of sadness seemed to lift-itself
from her mind.; and the mornings in her- little boudoir, with
easel and brush, and the afternoons on the lake, or strolling
through the garden, were hours of delight and pleasure. Car-
lotta seemed to. have forgotten her position as Empress; she
was again the Archduchess Carlotta, waiting the Archduke's
return from some distant cruise. The names of Mexico, France,

CROWN JV   WELA             33 -


336            CROWN JEWELS.

and Napoleon were never mentioned, and all remembrance of her
last sad visit to Paris seemed to hye passed entirely away.
But; all the hopes that were ch risked, that this, too, would
pass away, and leave her laajesty prepared to understand
the true state ofthings, and to ace them with the firmness
and fearlessness that had always been a characteristic, were
destined to be disappointed. Things went on in smooth train
for more than a month, and it wa near the middle of Septem-
ber.
The Empress had risen earlier than was her usual custom,
and had gone down alone in the garden to breathe the pure air
of the morning. Madame del Barrio would have joined her as
she left the Palace, but the Empress had put her back, saying:
"No, no, Madame; I must be lone this morning!. I must
think, must think;' we have been, eating long enough; " and
so she went down to the little sunimer-house, with its trailing
vines, and jasmines, and sat there alone.
As she looked out upon the wat r, over which hung a vapory
mist, listened to the matin song of the birds in the vines that
clambered over the -arched doorway of the little garden temple,
in which she rested, Carlotta seemed, indeed, to herself, to
awaken from a dream. As the strengthening sunbeams caught
up the misty curtain from the wa4ers, it seemed too, to shine
into her heart and brain, so that s e might look within boldly,
and see that the darkness was gon -.
Like some distant landscape'seei faintly at first, yet coming
nearer and nearer each moment, till at last, just before us, it
lies out, and we gaze steadily and purely at objects that begin
to lose their strangeness and gro  more familiar, and waken
in our hearts a smile of gladness, Or a sigh of regret; as we re-
cognize some scene of the past, ar und which hang joyous or
sorrowful memories, - so the paMorama of the past two years
came before the Empress's men 1 .vision. She remembered
each.event as it had occurred; the life in Mexico, the parting
at Chepultepec, the long, lonely sea voyage, the arrival at
saris, and, last, the terrible, fruitless .interview with the Em-
peror of France.                  '
Carlotta started, as she called them: up one after another.
Was she dreaming ? had she been in Europe,'indeed, for near.
two months, and passed one in easb and rest here at Miramar,
and her mission for Mexico unfulilled ?. She had failed with
the Emperor of France, but there was the Holy Father at
Rome ; a hope still lay with him., He could control the Church

party for' the Emnpire. He, by the exercise of his .high autho-
rity, might sustain the Emperor, and ,they might still succeed.
She must go to Rome, go there at once, and intercede with
Pope Pius. She, resting quiet, and Mexico relying upon her-
waiting for her ! Not another day must be lost !
Filled with the impulse, and reproaching herself that she
had even let illness interfere with her duty, the Empress has-
tened to the Palace, and as she went up to her own apartment,
gave orders to the marshal of the household, that M. Castillo,
Dr. Bowslaveck, and her ladies should attend her at once in the
library.
The Empress found them all awaiting her, when she entered
the library, a half-hour later.
"M. Castillo," said the Empress, seating herself beside the
table, and addressing herself to the Minister, "what have we
been doing since we left France?  Dreaming, and our mission
to Europe only half accomplished!",. The little company
looked at each other in dismay. The' Empress ! - was she better
-restored - or had her thoughts only entered a broader chan-
nel, that would bear her outward, to be shipwrecked upon the
open sea?
"This will not do, M. Castillo," continued Carlotta, "for the
Empress -of Mexico. If she is neglectful and unfaithful, whom
can we trust ? Do you forget that we have still to see the
Holy Father at Rome ? We must be in Rome, at the earliest
possible period."
"In Rome, your Majesty? " cried Dr. Bowslaveck, with no
attempt to conceal his anxiety. "Your Majesty cannot go !
If there is- obliged to be an interview' with the Father, our
Minister there and M. Castillo can effect everything. Your
Majesty, I entreat you, remain at Miramar! -The quiet here
will. restore you."
"It has restored me, with your kind attention, and the watch.
ful care of my dear ladies," she added, tenderly glancing to-
wards them; "and, since I am restored, I cannot, sit quietly
here and neglect what may be, - what will be," she added,
with sudden energy, "the salvation of Mexico. I have just
called to mind that to-morrow is the anniversary of Mexican
independence. M:' Castillo may I entrust its celeb ation here
to your supervision?  Our consul from Trieste, the Prefect,
and all who are interested in our Empire, must be invited to
say mass with us in our chapel. Say to them 'that her Majesty
the Empress Carlotta is quite restored?' After our celebration,
15

CROWN JEWELS.               337


CROWN JEWELS.

we must go at once to Rome. There, I know we will succeed.
The autumn must find us in Mexico."
Arguments were useless. The Empress seemed so entirely
restored, physically and mentally, that each objection she over.
ruled, and good Dr. Bowslaveck, in an agony of fear and
anxiety, yet mixed with joy at the Empress' sudden resto.
ration, was compelled to yield, and make preparations to ac-.
company her. But he could not suppress the fears he enter-
tained, lest the excitement of the journey (which was to be
Anade by land, in consequence -of the quarantine imposed
upon vessels coming from Trieste, which were suspected of
cholera), the interview with the Pope, and the probable disap-
pointment she would meet there, as at Paris, should bring a
second mental disorder, which would not be so easily con-
trolled as the first; whereas, if she remained. for some months
still free from all outside communication, the blessed change
she now manifested would doubtless become permanent.
The celebration of the anniversary at the palace, seemed to
rouse all the ambition of the Empress into action. Again she
felt that she was an Empress; that a diadem glittered upon
her brow; that she trod a high and lofty path, and filled an
exalted position; and, in the company of dignitaries and officers
from Trieste, who assembled. at the palace to assist at the
Grand Mass, and partake of the banquet that followed in the
afternoon, if curiosity prompted any heart to press forward, in
the endeavor to discover in her Majesty's words or manner,
some confirmation of the wild rumors that were afloat, they
gathered from the quiet countenance, the elegant, queenly
bearing, the regal manner, softened by the gentle affability
that ever betrays a kindly heart, -proof to say, that "no
shadow of cloud obscured the brightness of that brilliant intel-
lect. The Empress may have been ill,. but her mind was still
the same ; and to-day she was the Empress, both in body and
in mind."
Shall we follow the pathway, step by step, in which a mys-
terious fate is leading the Empress of Mexico?  Shall we har-
row the sympathetic heart with the mournful details that hang
about that visit to Rome, and point out the hour, when, in the
private reception-room of his Holiness at the Vatican palace,
where, two years before, she and her noble husband had re.-
ceived his blessing, her heart and head were racked again by
her old enemies, pride, ambition, and disappointment, as she
heard the father say (and he spoke truthfully), " My daughter,

I have no power to aid Mexico!"  Alas ! she had not remem-
bered when she anchored her hope to this. tenure, that the
Emperor Napoleon's power was not limited to France, but he
ruled at Rome through the Pope! No, no! !we can gaze with
'tearless eye at the sacrifice as it lies upon the altar, already
dead, but we shrink from leading it there with our own hand !
It is enough, that the demon that had lurked about her foot-
steps from Mexico to France, when she left the guardianship
of the angels that had kept it back from Miramar, had only
bided its time waiting and-watching; only tracked her more
closely towards Rome, and there, clutched the victim with
such triumphant certainty, that when again the Royal mistress
came back, weary and sick in body and mind, the angels had
lost their power, and could but silently mourn with all things
else:
"The Empress Carlotta.is again undone ! God have mercy
upon her !

CHAPTER XL.

N  Mexico, the horizon was growing darker, and the
clouds lowered more heavily each day. The United
States had grown more importunate in the demand for
, the withdrawal of the French troops, or at least in-
sisted upon some movement tending to that end being made,
and the Emperor Napoleon, now, since the interview with the
Empress Carlotta, did not longer attempt to palliate his actions,
or conceal his policies, but at once gave instructions to the com-
mander of the French troops in Mexico, for their withdrawal;
to begin in the autumn, and to end in the following spring.
Not satisfied with the transmission.of these instructions -by
telegram, and private dispatches, General Castelnau was sent
on an embassy from .France, to see 'that they were regarded,
and to impress upon- Marshal Bazaine their execution to the
letter. In the meantime, preparations had been made by the
Marshal to execute them to the best possible advantage, or the
least ijury to Mexico. He was very naturally "loath to over-
turn the throne, which for four years he had been helping to

ORO T  " JEWELS.

339


340

CRO WN JEWELS.

i1

raise;- " so that, even in accordance with the orders of his sover.
eign, which commanded him to stab the Empire, he endeavored
to do it as tenderly as possible. To have decided upon the
order of the evacuation, and the disposition of the remaining
troops, so as to protect the strongest points, was a task worthy
the skill of a Xenophon. The Marshal determined to withdraw
the soldiers from the northern cities first, so that those nearest
the capital might be the last'given up. Aftpr the entire with.
drawal of the French, the Emperor Maximilian could still,
with the assistance of the Austro-Belgian Corps, command a
force sufficient to hold the capital, and the towns of the interior,
and the seaboard.
But through the intricate mazes of the diplomatic web that
.had been woven in France, the Emperor Maximilian clearly
saw, plainly understood, tle main point of the whole was
to force him to abdication; to make things so desperate in
Mexico, that he would be glad to get rid of them, and return
to Miramar. ,The Emperor of .France was mistaken; he had
not to deal with a man of his own stamp, whose principles were
decided by the spirit of the hour. Though Maximilian knew
that the Juarist generals were every day entering some city in
the North, and when the assistance  of France was taken away
would press down upon him likes the wolf on the fold, yet he
knew that his presence held the turbulent spirit of the masses
in check ; his presence, kept back a deluge of blood from.
sweeping over the devoted country; and so he resolved to stand
firm.
As yet, the news of the Empress Carlotta's illness had not
reached Mexico. It was known that she had left Paris for
Miranar, where she was to remain a short while, to recover
from the excitement and fatigue of the voyage, before pro.
ceeding -to Rome ; but M. Castillo, with thoughtful care in the
transmission of dispatches, had aoided all allusion to the Em-
press's mental disorder.  ut after the return from Rome, when
it could be kept no loner from tie Paul Pry eyes and tongues
of the world, that the Empress arlotta's reason had left her,
the arrow was quickly sent to the heart, to whose- happiness it
would prove fatal.
It came to him at Chepultepec where they had parted; and
where, for the last few days, he had been taking rest from-
the cares that perplexed him. In the quiet around, he had
learned to look calmly on, almost as a spectator of the drama of
his life; yet could not shut all hope out of his heart. Again

CROWN JEWELS.                    341
and again had Marshal Bazaine, with true affection, entreated
that he would leave Mexico for Europe - temporarily, it might
go out to the world, as he could appoint a regency during his
absence; and there, out of danger, he might decide whether to
make it permanent. The good Marshal could not content him-
self, to leave the Emperor to perish but Maximilian; could not
content himself to go back to Europe and declare that his Em-
pire had proven a failure. There still was a hope of success ;
the Empress might induce the Holy Father at Rome to take
an active interest in behalf of the Emperor ! Alas, alas !
Marshal Bazaine had left the palace, with a troubled heart ;
and Maximilian, feeling that he had resolved anew upon his own
course, had gone out into the garden for a breath of the even-
ing air. As he reached the door at the front of the palace, he
slowly descended from the balcony, and stood upon the knoll, to
drink in the beauty of the autumn sunset.
There were the distant hills and valleys, the gleaming lake,
the turrets and towers, of the city standing boldly up against
the sky, the little villages half-hidden in the embosoming trees;
all, rejoicing with a glow of happiness on their faces in the
parting smile of the Western sun, that seemed loth. to leave
the day.
" Give up this country! " exclaimed Maximilian, enraptured
with the scene; "give up this Eden ! Is it not worth being
bought with blood? No ! let the French go; let Diaz and Esco-
bedo press on upon us ! We shall contest the last inch of ground;
and if Juarez enters the capital of Mexico, it must be over my
dead body ! " The Emperor had thought he was alone, when he
gave way to this burst of enthusiasm, but turning to pursue his
walk down the lawn, his eyes, still glowing with determination,
met those of his aid, Count Isolani.
"Ah, Isolani ! you are here ?" said the Emperor, with more
than usual gladness. "Look over the valley there, and you will
shake hands and pledge me to the sentiment you overheard. Is
it not a glorious view ? It is always new, as often as I have
seen it before; and I never forget to watch for, and admire it.
Come, join me in an evening promenade below the trees there;
the air is cool and fresh And then, Isolani, I must talk with you
after our old fashion to-night. I need it -an opening of my
heart to some one, before I face what is to come ! "~ And passing
his arm through the Count's, they went down the slope together,
as the two friends of yore.
-Since " Amen" had been said to the ending of the lessons of


342

B

CROWN JEWLS.

Count Isolani's love, and he felt that his life was an aimless,
purposeless dragging,-to the final resting-place,--yet, knew
not for what -A he had attached himself with more devotion
than ever before to the Emperor. He would live with, and
for him, and when the right time came -he knew it would
come -would die for him too. Die! What a pleasant word it
had grown to be ! For he knew, he felt, by the workings of
some spirit undefined, that she would be with him in that
hour ; that her face would be the last he should look upon by
the' earth-light, and when the heavenly sun rose upon them
together, they should be parted nevermore. He trusted they
would both reach that Holy Land ; he knew that she was in
her quiet home-life journeying towards it; and he, first for her
sake, perhaps, and afterwards for the sake of the Christ to
whom she had pointed him, -'he, - was walking towards it,
too.
Since the Empress Carlotta's departure, the Emperor had
been so absorbed, that there had been but few hours passed
with Count Isolani; but then, he had known he was there by
his side, full of truth and devotion ; always watching and car-
ing for this interest, so that he turned to him to-night, with
open heart.
"Isolani," said the Emperor again, as he walked backward
and forward in the shadow of the great poplar and cypress
trees, "you have not echoed my sentiment yet. Why do you
not say Iam right ?"
" My Prince," said the Count, using his old name for the
Emperor, "if each soul is 'the star of its own destiny, then you
are right!"
"Ah ! Isolani, I have learned to deny my old words. Men
cannot make and control circumstances. The one great cir-
cumstance, -the chance of birth, high or low, in the palace of
Europe, or in the wilds of Africa, determines all others. We
may make the attempt to overturn this, but ofttimes our giant
efforts prove a child's play, simply throwing straws on the
storm-lashed waves of the ocean. u' You know, Isolani, how my
heart bounded, when I came to Mexico; bow in joy, and ambi-
tion, I dreamed of the good I was to do this people by my
coming; and see the end.! I made the effort, - God knows I.
did, - and see the result. Am I to be held, to account for the
evils of to-day? Never. Fate led me here, to be disappointed.;
to crush the spirit and life from me, - to destroy me, perhaps.
She has thwarted mne in everything; and upon her, this unseen,

CROWN JEWELS.            3

unknown, yet terribly sensible power, do I lay the burden
of failure."
Maximilian's voice had lost all the gladness, which it had
when he- had greeted his friend; they had come upon the
subject, that for days and months had given him no peace ;
that was never absent, that would -never pass from him, until
he, too, passed away with it; and he spoke now with the
same wild, fierce defiance, that had grown to be his spirit of
thought.
" But, my Prince," said the Count, thoughtfully, "we forget
that Fate, Destiny, and Nature are but other names for that
Power that does indeed control men and circumstances. In
the beginning, when God made man, sinless and pure, and man
fell -did he, for that, pronounce creation a failure ? Our plans,
our 'hopes, and aims may fail in this life, but we must take care
that the one hereafter does not fail. It does not make so much
matter now, -for what is' time but a tiny sail upon the great
Ocean of Eternity; and it may be, that all this disappointment,
all this affliction, comes to us here, to make us lay hold on the
promise of a Kingdom, where these things cannot enter."
Earnestly, and impressively, Count Isolani had spoken, and
as he finished, the Emperor turned and looked at him, a little
curiously, perhaps; for he had- never heard him express such
sentiments before. There, was something new and strange. m
the words he had spoken, that the' Emperor liked, and yet
they seemed new and stranger still, coming from Isolani.
They were different from the monotonous priestly cant that he
had listened to, all his life; they fell into his heart so deeply,
that for a few moments he turned them over there, and said
to himself, What matter if one does fail here, if he gains the
hereafter ?" and then to his friend:
" Isolani, come, let us sit here, and tell me where you have
learned to speak these things from' your soul! You have grown
strange to me ; we have shared all things else, and we must
share this too !"
By chance, they had wandered up the slope, as they had
been speaking, into the flower-garden; and Maximilian now
had seated himself on the rustic bench near the fountain, and
motioned Count Isolani beside him The old association of the
place came back to the Count; and, as they two sat there to-
gether, and the sun went slowly down - down, behind the hills,
he gave up to his friend the part of his life that he had kept
back from his confidence; and when the dusk came creeping

'A/


844             CROW    ELSCJEWELS35.

stealthily upon them, the Emperor knew all, knew more, much
more, than he had even suspected before, -knew of the deep,
-wearying love - wearying, from its very power and fulness...'
that dwelt in his friend's heart; knew that it had all ended in
disappointment here; but knew that this failure would cause
him to cry out in triumph,." Eureka ! " at the end !r
Though his heart beat with sympathy for him, yet as Maxi-
milian grasped his friend's hand, as he finished his-story, there
came into his soul a great resolve, a strong promise, that though
these trials here seemed to tear him asunder in spirit, he would
struggle to endure them unto the end; feeling that God, not
Fate, had sent them upon him, to lead him to that Kingdom,
not made with hands, beyond this life !
Ah! wondering, trembling soul, that stands doubtingly be-
fore the stake that is raised, and the fagots that are piled to
test thy faith, wherefore shrink from the martyr's death!
Surely, thou hast not yet to learn, that these hours of suffering
are the strong hours of life ; that only by fire the dross can be
consumed. " Endure unto the end, and all shall be well ! "
And so, while the stake was raising, and the fagots were
piling for the Emperor of Mexico, he was preparing to triumph;
and it was the voice of his friend that cried out to him,
" Look up ! look up to where the crown that is eternal awaits
thee ! "
"Isolani," said the Emperor, as they rose to go in, "it is all
right. God bless you, my. friend ! you have taught me this
night, that evil may be sent, for good-to come ! "
"And remember, my Prince, when evil does come, to have
faith that God, not Fate, has sent it to work out good for your
soul."
They parted at the door of the Emperor's cabinet, and
Count Isolani, going to his own apartment, the Emperor turned
in alone. As he entered the little room, the beams of the rising
moon stole through the open window, and lighted up the grain-
ing of the plain oaken floor.
Maximilian went to his favorite seat by the window, and be-
gan the study of the new faith, of which he had but as yet barely
caught a glimpse. Moonlight, with its sisters, Stillness and
Solitude, offered no jarring outside influence to disturb his con-
templations. Hand in hand, the trio wander on, away over hills
and valleys, and meadows, and cities full of hurrying and bust-
ling people, who 'pass them by unnoticed, and going their
nightly round of the earth, come back again with lightning speed

to the Emperor of Mexico, who in their absence has been
thinking on, still the same.
He has been thinking, as he said, if this life, with all its
hopes and dreams, was blasted, thank God ! there is another
yet to come, which, if secured once, is secure forever; and he
silently prays, that both he and the Empress may not fail to
reach it !
The Empress ! Carlotta! his wife! -where is she at this mo-
ment, - is she in spirit with him, as he is, with her? ~And then
he runs over again, as he has done so many times in the years
that have passed, their life together, from the time of their first
love glance, to the anguished moment of parting, when the
girl heart of the woman shut out the Empress's pride, and then
he said aloud, again, "Thank God, she issafe: Miramar must
be her home, whatever betide me."
There was a tap at the door of the cabinet, and turning, he
saw Count Isolani with the evening dispatches in his hand.
" The courier has but just arrived," said the Count, coming
forward, and laying the papers upon the table, and then, light-
ing the large lamp, that stood .thereon, prepared to withdraw,
when his attention was attracted to the Emperor, who had
eagerly broken the seal of the first dispatch, and, with a groan.
of deep anguish, dashed it suddenly from him.
As Count Isolani turned to him, quickly, with an exclama-
tion of alarm, he scarcely recognized, in the terribly agonized
expression, the same noble face that he had seen but a mo-
ment before.
" Read,-read - that!/ " exclaimed Maximilian, brokenly,
laboring under the effort of speech, and pointing to the crum-
pled paper upon the table. " She is mad -insane! /Mad
-insane/" he repeated, scarcely conscious. "This is the
illness, then, with which we have been cheated of the truth,
for a month past ! Isolani, Isolani, where is the God that
you have been telling me of, that these things are permitted?
Why am I hunted like a deer, and wounded each hour and
moment, while death will not come ! I could have borne all
-all but this ! She, too, has been, sacrificed to this miser-
able, miserable dream! The Emperor of France began what
Rome has finished, and she has been taken to Miramar, mad!/
Mad ! insane !I" he again repeated, as if trying to convince him-
self of the terrible' meaning that was bound up in those two
short words.
Count Isolani could offer no word of comfort, in this hour
15*

CLOWN JrWELS.             345


CROWN JEWELS.

of grief, so deep and dark with the Emperor. They seemed too
meagre of consolation, for such occasion. The'intelligence had
come to him, a shock as unexpected, as to the Emperor, and
he had felt that the God who had sent this dispensation, could
alone heal the heart on which it had fallen heaviest.
For some moments, Maximilian, with the dispatch, firmly in
his hand, pow opening it, and reading it again, and now fiercely
twistingit into a mere wisp, walked backward and forward,
the length of the little cabinet. Count Isolani laid his hand
upon the Emperor's shoulder, and would have spoken; but
their eyes met, and each read in the depths of the other the
words that would not come.'
"Leave me, friend -leave me," whispered the Emperor, at
last. I must bear this - I must wrestle with this - alone ! "
And alone the Emperor did struggle with the giant Despair,
that sought to bind him hand and foot..
From hour to hour the quiet moon looked in, pityingly and
tenderly, upon the strong man that was bidding his soul
Suffer, and be still."
Now he was truly alone ! Her counsel, her sympathy, and
her love were taken from him. What had he to hope for now?
What was life?  If he had not already closed and sealed his
ear to Temptation's voice, it would have whispered, as lie sat
there by the window, desolate and despairing, " Leave Mexico,
and go'to her."  But already he felt himself pledged to his
destiny here in Mexico. The dread phantom of dishonor that
seemed to hover about him when his thoughts turned to a voy-
age to the Old World, and a farewell to the New, held highest
power in that noble heart ; and to-night, in all his grief and woe,
he did but-say anew, " I cannot disgrace the name I bear by
leaving Mexico. It is well; life has now lost its last charm! "
Let the winds howl on ! The sea of Fortune, with its black-
ening, foaming, white-crested waves, lash with fury against his
bark. In wild glee the sweeping wind catches them up higher
and higher, until the topmost shred of sail feels the dashing of
the spray. The life-boatshave been lowered and manned, and
many have put off for shore ; but the one who has launched this
gallant ship, who has stood at her bow in days of sunshine, and
rang his orders proudly out, stands firmly there now, with a.de-
voted few; and together, with unflinching nerve, they watch the
storm -watch the giant wave that is rolling nearer and nearer,
that is to send them downward -downfard together ! watch it

with unquailing hearts, though they feel that when the storm's
might is past, these creeping waves will chime a ceaseless re-
quiem o'er the gallant and the brave that rest beneath.

CHAPTER XLI.

i/ HE autumn had, amid many perplexities, dragged it-
self away, and the winter was growing old. The bells
of Time had rung out the knell of another year. In
darkness and in gloom it had passed out, and in the
lineaments of its successor, that held weal or woe for 1867
locked in his bosom, already could be discerned, as his -eye
rested on the Empire of Mexico, something that told' all was
darkness for the young Emperor!
Napoleon had kept his word to the United States;- and early
in February long lines of soldiery, moving over the hills tow-
ards the coast, like a ribbon of steel, with flashing bayonets
and burnished arms, might have been seen. The French were
to be disembarked at Vera Cruz, with as little delay as -possible,
and Mexico must begin the death-struggle alone.
The Emperor Maximilian waited not until the dust had fallen
from theirs feet, to begin military movements ; all thought of
abdication had been put aside, and with the giant fortitude that
despair ofttimes gives to the hopeless heart, he took in the
situation of the different departments; their relative strength
and weakness, the position of the enemy, etc., and at once de-
termined upon the best disposition of his own forces.
The Juarists had been, during the past six months, -rapidly
increasing in numbers, and had gradually taken possession of
the upper cities as the French withdrew, until, now, the Impe-
rial forces were only holding the larger cities of the interior,
and preserving the communication with Vera Cruz.   There
were three thousand Imperial troops at Puebla, to protect that
city from falling into the hands of the enemy under General
Diaz, who was besieging it; Mexico City was as .yet safe, and
needed only a small force to hold it until the enemy should
come nearer ; but at Querataro, some fifty miles to the north-
east, there was promise of trouble. The Juarists were-massmg
forces there, under General Fscobedo, and though General

347

346

CROWN JEWELS.

C
-


848              CROWN JEWELS.O

Meija held possession of the city, it was feared he might not be
able to stand a protracted siege. So the Emperor Maximilian,
seeing the danger that threatened that important point, deter-
mined at once to proceed to Querataro in person, with a force
of some eighteen hundred men, leaving Count Khevenhuller and
the Hussars, with other troops, to protect the capital.
All preparations for the movement of the troops from Mex-
ico City had been completed, and they were only waiting the
dawn of the morrow to take up their line of march.
The Emperor had taken his farewell of Chepultepec,--alas! a
last farewell it proved, - and was at the palace in the city for.
the last night in the capital.
Turn where he might now, whether to Chepultepec, that had
almost taken the place of Miramar in his heart, or to the palace
where they had first established their court, there was naught
for the Emperor, save sahiess of heart and bitterness of spirit;
for he could but contrast the buoyancy of soul with which he
gazed first upon each, - while Hope pointed out the pleasant
picture of a future filled with glory and honor. Now, alas !
how changed ! There were no dreams of glory for him; no
promise of triumph; no whisperings now that he should ever
bear the palm aloft; there was only a stern, unrelenting voice
that bade him pursue the path of duty ; only the cold, stony
face of Despair met his glance when, for a moment, he
turned his eye away from the darkness beyond, with the vain
hope of finding one ray of comfort. And she, the one who had
always hitherto given those words of strength that cheered him
on; the one who had been his pride and his joy, in the beauty
of girlhood, and the maturity of womanhood -she was now like
" a wandering bark upon an unknown sea, with all stars to shine
save the guiding one ! "
General Marquez and Senor Aguirre (the Minister of War),
who were to accompany the Emperor on the morrow, had but
just left his Cabinet, and Maximilian, with but little hope of
being able to corlpose himself to rest, had begun a letter to his
brother, the Emperor of Austria, when the marshal announced
that Count Khevenhiiller desired a few moments' audience with
his Majesty.
"Show him up," said the Emperor, pushing aside his writing
material, and rising, as the Count entered.
"Always welcome, Count," said the Emperor, extending his
hand, " and to-night more than ever, since. you seem to bring
with you a breath of German air."         '-

" Would that your Majesty had as many here with you now,
as love you in Germany," said the Count, as he took the Em-
peror's hand, and seated himself in a chair near the table, which
stood in the centre of'the room.
"Ah ! well, Count, we are done with sighing and looking
over the water now; these things must work themselves out
some way, sooner or later, and whatever comes, we must be
prepared to meet it ! This is very. kind of you, to come
for a last .adieu. I cannot say how long it may be before we
shall come back to the capital. If we find Meija too heavily
pressed, we may send here for all the troops, save a small garri-
son; at all events, Querataro must be held; -if it should fall, we
should have the Juarists down upon.the capital here, in less than
two days; so be in readiness, Count, with your Hussars, to move
at a moment's notice."
"Your Majesty, the Hussars sleep upon their arms, and are
always found ready to do. or die for the Empire; and I come
to-night, even at this late hour, not to say adieu, but to peti-
tion that your Majesty will permit the Hussars to go with you
to Querataro, in the place of the Regiment of the Empress."
" Lopez's regiment remain at the capital ?" said the Empe-
ror, with some surprise at Count.Khevenhiiller's petition. "I
appreciate sincerely, my dear Count, the attachment to our
cause which prompts this petition, but I cannot see that it is
practicable to arrange it. It is at Colonel Lopez's own request
that his regiment has been transferred from Puebla to Quera-
taro. I dislike to deny either of two such brave, devoted offi-
cers; but his petition has the precedence."
Count Khevenhniller's brow was slightly overcast at the men-
tion of his own naine in connection with one whom he still
suspected of not being so true as he appeared ; and at the per-
plexing intelligence that Colonel Lopez had made such a point
of accompanying the Emperor, he was still more troubled.
"Your Majesty," said he at last, "LI1am greatly tempted to
press my claims, even in advance of those of Colonel Lopez,
upon the score of German birth. I have known and loved your
Majesty a few years longer than Colonel Lopez has, and to be
very candid, I am rather skeptical of Mexican devotion in gen-
eral, -and of that of Colonel Lopez in particular."
Count Khevenhuller hesitated over the last words, but as he
finished, the Emperor started, and looking earnestly at hire,
replied, -r
"I do not understand you, Count!. Surely you do not mean

CROWN JEWEL8*               349


e0

350

CROWN JEWELS.

to cast a slur upon Colonel Lopez, who, if I know him aright,
is as true a friend as I can name !"
"Your Majesty," said the Count, earnestly, as he drew his
chair nearer to the Emperor, and lowered his voice, " you be-
lieve that Count Khevenhiller loves your life- as well as his
own; you believe that he is true in word and deed, and that
nothing could change him, or could tempt him from his duty
to the members of the House of Hapsburg ; you believe this,
your Majesty ! "
"1I believe it, Khevenhiller," said the Emperor feelingly, as
the 'Count waited for an answer.
" Then," said he, " I can speak out. What I am going to
say to your Majesty to-night, has borne upon my mind for
months past. I have turned it over and over, and tried to
discover my duty in regard to it, and never before to-night
has my heart bade me speak. I know it is no light thing to
breathe upon a man's good name ; and yet when our dearest
hope is at stake, when our treasure is going from us, shall we
trust it in the hands of one whom we believe to be a cloaked ,
hypocrite ? I feel that I would not be guiltless, if I did not
whisper, before your Majesty departs, a word of warning against
Colonel Miguel Lopez!"
" Miguel Lopez! Colonel Lopez, who is as true as steel to
the Empire. Why, my dear Count, you are surely dreaming!"
exclaimed the Emperor lightly. "Why, I was beginning to won-
der what conspiracy had been gotten up for the Ides of March.
I do not know upon what you base your suspicions or prejudice,
Count; Lopez has been away for- six months until a few days
since and as for doubting his faith - why, if you say much
more, I shall grow afraid of Isolani, -yourself, or poor Navarro-
in his grave. No, no, Count ! Suspicion seems ubiquitous in
these days of Punic faith ; but I think you mistake Colonel
Lopez. He only left my cabinet a couple of hours since, and
is as deeply concerned for the Imperial success and for my per.
sonal safety, as I am myself."
" Ah ! " replied the Count incredulously. " A man may
smile and smile, and be a villain still. The soil of Mexico, as
I have said, does not nourish the strong tree of affection. But
I believe your Majesty has more confidence in' my love of truth
and of charity for others, than to feel that I would permit mere
prejudice or even a personal dislike to lead me irnto traducing
the character of another. No, your Majesty ; what I have saidt
concerning Colonel Lopez, arises from no prejudice nor personal

CROWN JEWELS.

351

feeling, but from a knowledge of a few acts of his, which he
thought hidden, yet unfortunately for him, transpired to one or
two, before his leaving Mexico City in the spring past. He
may have changed his policy since; yet when.a principle once
takes hold of a man of the world, it is hard to uproot it; and I
believe it to be in Colonel Lopez's heart to-day as firmly planted
there, as it was six months ago; and his request to accompany
your Majesty to Querataro, only confirms me in the belief that
he is seeking -with all his seeming devotion - a favorable
opportunity to strike the Empire a heavy blow."
"Khevenhuller, my dear friend, explain yourself! I feel
that you are convinced of what you say; and yet I know you
are wrong in your ideas of Colonel Lopez; let us understand
this before you go further. What do you know against Colonel
Lopez's loyalty to the Empire."
"Iknow,"said the Count, earnestly "that before Colonel Lopez
left for Puebla,. he was seen by an officer, whom, if necessary, I
could name-to your Majesty, plotting with and giving information
to spies from the enemy, in a secret apartment at Puillet's caf6."
And the Count proceeded to give the Emperor a minute account
of Joubert's adventure, as he had related it to him. " I am
willing to substantiate this man's words, your Majesty," said he,
as he finished; and then, as he noticed a peculiar smile playing
about the Emperor's lips, he exclaimed,-
" I beseech your Majesty,. not to disbelieve this, nor treat it so
lightly ! I have never opened my lips of it before, because your
Majesty was never before where Colonel Lopez could betray you;
but now, I tremble to think, that he, too, goes to Querataro; and,
again I beg, that if it be possible, the Hussars may go, and
the Empress's Regiment be left here at the capital."
"And I, Count, smiled," said the Emperor, " to think that
I have heard the same story you have told me to-night, from\
the' lips of Colonel Lopez himself, more than six months before.
How we do mistake each other in this -world! While he had
merely fallen upon a little ruse to- find out important items,
concerning the enemy, by misleading their spies,"he is suspected
himself of treason ! "
Count Khevenhiiller started. Had he indeed wronged the
man ?  Had he been led astray by Joubert, and been guilty of
traducing the character of another-? Was Colonel Lopez a true,.
honorable patriot, who had counterplotted against the spies
that he had discovered in the city ? 'For a moment his con-.
science smote him; but then he remembered the morning visit


352             CROWN JEWELS.'

CROWN JEWELs            353

to Colonel Lopez's office, remembered the quailing of the eye,
the nervous apprehension, the . cowardly threat upon his life,
and 'his returning faith in the man gave place to doubt again.
" Your Majesty," he said at last, " I have coyne to you to-
night, God knows, with a pure motive. I trust, in my overween-
ing anxiety for your Majesty's safety that I have not done
Colonel Lopez injustice. I do not believe I have. I went to
Colonel Lopez with this matter, and it bore ,a different phase with
him, then, from that in which it seems he presented it to you.
I can say nothing more. May I beg that your Majesty will
not mention what has passed to-night ? God grant that I may
indeed be wrong," continued the Count, in a low, earnest,
troubled voice.
tKhevenhller, you are a noble fellow, "said the Emperor,
rising and laying his hand firmly on his shoulder; "but I
must insist that you are wrong, in your estimate of character, in
this instance. Colonel Lopez, I believe, went to Puillet's for no
other purpose than to. find out, as he told me, from the spies,
that he had discovered, through means of his adjutant, to be in
the city, the real status of the Liberal cause. All that he
learned then, he disclosed to me a few days later, and expressed
some fear, that, if it were discovered, his actions might be
misconstrued ; as it was, however, the information he gained'
from them was of much service, in giving us their plan of
action at the time. And.now, my dear Count, I, in turn, must*
beg that you dispossess your mind of these suspicions against
Colonel Lopez; for I feel assured,'that you will never hear of
any action of his, but will do. him credit as a brave, high-
minded, honorable soldier and patriot."
"I trust so, I trust so, your Majesty," said the Count, a
little incredulous still; "I wish I could feel as sure for Colonel
Lopez's escutcheon in the future, as your Majesty does. May
I ask if Colonel Lopez took the precaution to have the spies,
he spoke of, arrested before they could leave the city.?,"
" Ah ! doubting still; well, 'A wilfu' man maun gang his wa.'
Colonel Lopez did not consider it necessary to order their arrest;
since, you know, a hundred men,. adventurers, who may act as
spies, go in and out each day."
Count Khevenhuller had risen to go, and now, as he stood be-
side the Emperor, whose noble countenance seemed so full of
trust, and so free from all suspicion, he saw that if Colonel
Lopez should choose him as. a victim of his treachery, he could
stab him in the dark, easily enough.

It is growing late, your Majesty, and I must say Adieu.
If reinforcements are needed, may I rely upon it the Hussars
shall be ordered ?"
"Ah ! I wish you were going with us to-morrow, Count;-
and believe me, Ieam grateful to you," continued Maximilian,
earnestly, as he reached out his hand, " for the interest that
has brought you to me to-night. Isolani and yourself, I
feel, are bound to me by hooks of steel. You came from Ger-
many for my sake, and, Count, if it should prove that all those
hopes we cherished together, should be utterly fruitless; if
there should be no repayal for these years of labor, and care
- promise me, when you go back alone to Germany, and
mayhap, in some noble gathering, the name of the Emperor
Maximilian ofJ Mexico is mentioned,- promise me, that his
name and his memory shall be handled tenderly, as it deserves ;
promise me, that there shall be a voice raised to justify the
one who will then be powerless to offer a word in his own
behalf ! Say that Maximilian did his duty; nay, more, that he
struggled to do good to his fellow-men, and if he was not suc-
cessful, it was his misfortune, not his fault. You will sathis
Khevenhiiller ?"               is     .     - - ay      ,
The Emperor still stood by, his side-; and as Count Kheven-
huller listened to the wdrds so full of foreboding and evil, and
then again looked up at the tall, erect figure, the open, hand-
some face, that wore now a shade of sadness, and his eye resting
on the gold buttons and bright lace of the Emperor's uniform,
the tears stole into his eyes, and he felt that Mexico had not
been worthy of so noble a ruler; that there was no altar holy
enough for such a sacrifice.
"Your Majesty, neither Isolani ndr I will ever leave the
standard of the Emperor Maximilian'!   We will never go
back to Germany without you; living or dead our duty, our
pleasure is to serve you. How many voices are there in Ger-
many now, calling out to you, 'Our Prince, our Prince, come
back to us !'"
" Ah! Count, I see whither you are drifting now. I have
cast anchor here, and if my bark is not strong enough to stand
the beating of the storms, it must go. to pieces.I I am willing
to give my life to the Empire; but I trust Isolani and yourself
may be spared to tell the 'story of our woes, long years to
come.' But this will make cowards of us ; whatever Fate
has for us, we must 'act.,well our part; there all the honor lies.'


0

354

CROW JEWELS.

You are going, Count? then au revoir. I will not say adieu.
Long live the Hussars!"
The Count raised the Emperor's hand to his lips, and, with
an earnest repetition of his "Au revoir," left the cabinet.
Au revoir! not adieu, -not farewell!
"For in that word - that fatal word - however
We promise, -hope, -believe, -there breathes despair."
The Emperor, alone again, turned to a low couch that occu-
pied one corner of the room. His mind did not entertain the
suspicions that Count Khevenhuller had presented of his friend
and officer one moment. Maximilian spoke truly, when he said
that he would as soon doubt Navarro in his grave, as Miguel
Lopez. Doubtless there were those among his officers and
men, who now since the cause of the Empire was failing, felt
their hearts turning, after the manner of worldly policy, to the
side where the strength lay, but Colonel Lopez was not to be found
among this number. As the Emperor looked out upon the
moonlit Plaza, and then sankl upon his couch, to steal a few
hours of quiet before the morrow's dawn, he exclaimed again, -
"How we mistake each other in this little world ! Lopez
and Khevenhaller, both true, both willing to die for the same
cause, and yet so far apart in their'reckoning of each other ! "
And he, alas ! more sadly mistaken than either !
The hours wore on, and the Emperor slept ; not the haunted,
dreamy slumber of the care-weary man, but once more the in-
nocent, conscience-clear sleep of youth. On the morrow he
must take up the burden again; on the morrow he will begin,
the march to the "unseen kingdom of death; but in these
midnight hours, with the song of the breeze without, and the
dimming light of the lone lamp within, casting ghostly shadows
from the historic faces on the walls, to the oaken 'floor beneath,
let him rest ! let him rest !"~       ~

CROWN JEWELS,

855

CHAPTER XLII.

Anita, you have''forgotten Don Pedro, for once!"",
- said Inez, cheerily, as she entered her aunt's sitting-
room at their home, and found Anita engaged in mend-
ing a rent in her lace-veil. " What is going to happen ?
I think you are growing tired of the Cid, and Don Roderick, and
Don Pedro, you neglect them so of late."
" Ah! Inez," said Anita, looking up with a return smile,
" you know I am growing too old for poetry and romance now.
But you too have forgotten something this morning; the look
of sadness is left behind ! "
"Ah, yes! and do you know why ? The Emperor is coming
with his soldiers from, Mexico to-day ; and it is a time of joy
for all good Imperialists. We shall be safe now ! See, Anita,
Escobedo's tents there, don't seem half so near ; and' the bay-
onets that flash so, each morning, wont look half so fierce, will
they?  They may sound thei- drums and trumpets at us now
in vain, for they can hardly devour us,' while the Emperor
stands between!"
As she spoke, Inez went to the window, and drawing the cur-
tains back, and opening the casement wide, looked abroad with
more complacency, perhaps,than she had done in many days
before, upon the beautiful prospect of valley and glade, warm-
ing in the sunlight. There was but one feature to mar the plea-
sure of the contemplation to Inez; away in the distance, half-
obscured by the vapory mist that curled about the rising hill-
side, and half-revealed,, here and there, where the light was
strongest, shone the white tents of Escobedo's forces.
As she stands there, looking out quietly, with features all
in repose, we may note- that Inez has scarcely changed since'she
left the capital, more than six months ago. There have been n6
upheaving billows to break the smooth current of her life. It
has passed in uninterrupted quietude of thought and action.
A visit to Anita and herself, now and then, from the priestly
Father who has charge of the little chapel at the Convent where
they worship, and the daily walk to the city to attend mass
or vespers, is all they have known of the outside world. The


356             CROWN JEWELS.

CRO WN JEWELS             357

look of sadness which had come to be such a sore trouble to
Anita, had grown quite natural to the noble face, and the deep
light in the large dark eyes, was, perhaps, softer, more tender,
more holy, than ever before. The face, with an upward look,
would be perhaps that of Faith " waiting and watching."  To-
day, though, as Anita said, some of the weariness was gone, and
a smile had half driven the shadow away.
" Yes, Anita," she said, as she turned away from the window
to assist her aunt in arranging the veil that she had repaired,
about her head in the old Spanish style, to which Anita still
clung ; " the day is here at last; and if we waste'much time we
shall be too late to see the triumphal entry. Sister Th6rese
charged me, as I came out from vespers last afternoon, that we
should meet the Sisters at the cathedral on the Plaza at ten.
From the windows of the organ-loft, we shall have a grand
view of the whole scene."
"Sister Therese is very kind, Inez. My heart is with the
Emperor, and I wish him joy and success everywhere; but I
am growing almost too old tp mix so much with the world-;
you had better take old Pedro with you as far as the cathedral,
and I will remain at home."
" Dear Anita, you grow old? " said Inez, tenderly passing
her arm about her, and drawing her to the window: "not yet,
Anita ; you are all I have left, and you must not "think of
growing old."
"Ali! mia cara / we may not speak of it, but Time does
not forget us. He leaves, his touch here," pushing back the
folds of the veil, and showing the dark hair sprinkled with
silver ; "and each year there is a new furrow on the brow. The
old reaper is ceaselessly sweeping the earth with his scythe,
and some day, it may be far or near, Anita's turn will come.
Well! she will not much care ; it will only be one sheaf more,
she..trusts, gathered into the garner. The spring-time is gone
from Anita now, and there is nothing for her but the snows of
winter, and she does not care to be left for those -if she only
knew where her flower here, would be slheltered when she was
gone."
Anita was not given to much speaking; but in her quiet way
her mind was always busy, and she was' right now. She was
growing old, and this morning she had touched the one care that
the thQught of-Death, whom she saw not so very far in the
distance, standing in her pathway, gave her. How would Inez
be cared for ? There had been a time, even after Giulian's

death, when in casting a horoscope for her future, she had
thought that there was another - Count Isolani- who in time
might stand in Giulian's place.. But that hope had passed ;
while watching her child's life, Anita had discerned the trials'
through which she had passed ; for in the great sweeping, tide
that ebbed and flowed each day, no wave rolled up to Inez,
without touching her feet also. And now, as she looked at
Inez, she could but think, in reviewing their past, how depend-
ent they two had ever been on each other. Juan gone, they
knew nor cared not whither, -for worse than dead he was to
them, - and now if either were taken, what desolation there
would be for the other !
" Anita ! my mother !_" said Inez softly, " you cannever grow
old to me. To-day you are the same as in the memory
of my little girlhood, and I sometimes wonder, Anita, that
God did not take the little infant home, instead of -leaving it
here, to wear out your life. My hope is to *see you happy
again, Anita;- to see you in Madrid; my hope -for you is, that
Anita's sun may set behind the old mountains of Castile ! "
"Ah ! it matters little for me, Inez, where, it sets on earth,
so that it rises for the second life in Heaven. But you, my
child - what will there be for you, when Anita is gone?1"
" Have you forgotten, Anita, that the Church provides a
place for those who are desolate and'comfortless; where, as one
of the blessed Sisterhood, they may fill a higher, holier mission
than weeping, and mourning, and tossing upon the billows of
life? Anchored in the bosom of the Church, a weary soul may
cling to the Rock of Ages ; and I think, Anita, my future will
be with those holy women; my feet already turn towards the
path in which they tread, and I often wonder why I delay even
now, taking up the life to which my heart is driving me.
Each morn, when I stand in the little chapel of the old convent,
and in the early light look over the dark' bowed figures, and
think what their life is, -devotion to their Father's work, min-
istering to the afflicted ones, as their Master' bade them do,--
when I think then of the great, broad field of the world, and
the few who labor thus, my- heart asks itself, ' Why dost thou
stand here, all the day idle?  Go thou and do likewise;' and
then I go on saying to myself, that perhaps we ought to go to
Madrid ;- you, to my uncle, of whom, you have often told me,
and I, to the old convent where you and my mother were
brought up."
"But, my -child, though I feel that there you would be

III


358                CROWN JEWELS.
safe, yet the life of a Sister of Mercy Must be taken, not alone
from the thought of a moment. It is not merely an asylum for
those who are wary and desolate; it is a noble life, for those
who love God better than Mammon. The treasure, Inez, must
be laid up in Heaven, that the heart may be drawn upward
too; there must be no lingering earth-ties."
Aiita did not say to Inez all she thought; did not say to
her that perhaps, in the starting-point, she was wrong in yield-
ing her life's happiness for an idea of duty to the memory of
Giulian; did not say to her, that perhaps the mission of wife
and mother- woman's true mission -holy and sanctified by the
word of God, was a noble sphere, and worthy a woman's life ;
and perhaps the labor in the home-circle brought in the end a
richer harvest than was gathered by those who sowed and
reaped in the world's broad field, where oftentimes the tares
choke out the tiny grain. Anita did not say all this; but the
hope was alive at this moment, down in -her child-heart, that
perhaps Victor Isolani would yet stand between her and, all
vows save those which should bind her to him for better .r
worse. Count Isolani would come with the Emperor perhaps,
and, then Love might take its course. Inez might yet be happy.
Anita said nothing of all this.
" Ah ! well, Anita, this is all in the future ; and we shall
'be cared for, as the sparrows are. God sends each soul to its
own field of labor, and in His own time He will send us to
ours. Now, our duty seems to be only to sit still and wait."
Anita wondered, as Inez spoke, if her duty in life had been
centred on that one flower ; and her heart answered to her
mute questioning, "Yea." Truly, yes, Anita ! and as noble art
thou, who didst teach those infant lips to murmur, " Our Father
in Heaven;" who didst guide those little feet into the paths
of Truth and Virtue ; who didst bind the precepts of Reli-
gion, Mercy, and Love upon that youthful brow, - as noble
art thou, and as worthy of homage among men, as 'he that
taketh a city ; " and more worthy of a crown above; for thou
hast prepared one soul for life eternal ! ".
" Well, you will go this morning to see the Emperor?" said
Inez, as they turned away from the window ; and then, as she
noted the anxious look still resting on Anita's face, she added:
" Don't let anything I say grieve you, Afiita! This must be a
joyful day. I will come down again in an hour ; and you will,
be ready to go with me ?"

CROWN JEWELS.              359

"Yes, I guess I must go to-day; I must see the Emperor
again, so I shall be ready."
The day was bright and clear, and the great bells from
cathedral and convent, tower and steeple, were ringing their
joy loudly forth, their brazen tongues shouting out their gladness,
in tones of triumph, f4r above all other sounds.
Horsemen clad in their brightest uniform were dashing up
and down the stony, streets, as if in hurried preparation.
The Plaza was throriged with crowds of men, women, and
children  in gay holiday attire.  The shop- windows and
fronts in the cortal wear the aspect of festive display ; while
on the residence streets farther off, from every-window floated
a flag ; and through the huge gates .of the court-yard, as one
casts a glance, the water of the fountains seems to sparkle more
brightly, and the flowers that fill up the parterres between cor-
ridors, seem more prodigal of their sweets than they are wont
to be.
There is but one sentiment beaming in the eye, and speaking in
the smile, that rests on every face. "The Emperor is coming !"
The people of Querataro were earnestly sincere. With one
accord they were gathering to welcome their Sovereign; for at
this moment they felt that his coming would relieve them from
all care, and all anxiety. Those who have known what it is to
be but a day's, nay, but an hour's remove from the power of an
enemy, - to know they are only over the hill, waiting to strike;
to see them moving to and fro "like leaves of the forest, when
summer is green, and the sheen of their spears are like stars of
the sea;" to hear, morning, noon, and night, the roll of the
drum, that may, to-morrow, sound through their streets, a
mocking requiem to their slaughtered dead ; and then, when
Despair sits in almost every heart, to look, and see winding
afar over the hills a host that bears one's own banner, and know
they are coming - those friends, brave and true, who will die
to defend that city,.-you who have felt this, cry out in your
heart with the people of Querataro, to-day, " Long live the Em-
peror ! Long live the soldiers of the Empire ! "
True, they had already that lion by their side - the warlike
Meija; but he had only three thousand men, and.there over
the hill was Escobedo, the enemy, with thirty thousand. So,
in the plenitude of joy, great and small, young and old, the
nobility in their lumbering carriages, soldiers on horseback,
rancheros, lepers, ndian and white, all were out for agala-day.
On the Plaza there was a .strange mingling of the priestly

Lliii


360              CR OWN JEWELS.

robes of the padres with the sarapes and rebosas of the lower
orders and the leperos.
Out of the city, the road in the direction of the capital
was lined by the multitude that had followed in the wake of
the soldiery, which had gone out in rank, to meet the coming
reinforcements.
At last the shout rang forward till those on the Plaza caught
it: "'L'Empereur ! L'Empereur ! "  Louder and louder it grew,'"
now swelling on the breeze, and. now softening in the confused
murmur of voices.
They have entered the city amid the sound of drum and
fife, and the shouting of the multitude. Proudly they tread
on through the streets; now, a body of infantry, who have
marched from the capital, but who to-day have forgotten all
fatigue ; the tramping, clattering cavalry are moving past; the
artillery rumbles along; and now, escorted by the officers, Gen-
erals Meija and Miramon, and followed by his staff, a body
of noble, handsome men, comes the Emperor Maximilian
himself !
More than an hour since Anita and Inez had joined the
dark-robed Sisters, and had taken their places at the great win-
dow of the Cathedral, overlooking the Plaza; and they, with .
the others, who were waiting in anxious expectation, caught
the shouts of the triumphant procession that was coming nearer
and nearer to the Plaza.
The troops that had come from Mexico, are conducted at
once to the place of encampment just without the city ; but
the clamorings of the people prevent the thought of rest with
the Emperor; so, escorted by the welcoming corps; the com-
manding generals, and the officers of his Staff, he turns into the
Plaza.
The "vivas " ring out from a. thousand voices, long and
loud, as the Emperor reaches the middle of the square and the
company halts.
"See, see, Inez ! " exclaimed Anita, as they -leaned over the
stone casement of the old window to catch a full view. "See
our noble Emperor there, with General Meija beside him! "
Not one,-in casting an eye over that body of brave men,
could have mistaken the young Emperor of Mexico. In the
dark blue habit of a Mexican General, the gold-embroidered,
tops of the heavy cavalry boots glistening, and the sword which
hung at his side flashing in the sunlight, he sat proudly the
splendid war-horse, that impatiently and restlessly chafed the

bit, and stamped the stony pavement. A nobler monarch"
never ruled a people !
"Yes, yes 7"-cried Inez, catching the spirit of enthusiasm,
which the Emperor's presence sent from heart to heart ; " the
Emperor himself! - Ah ! if the Empress Carlotta could only
see him this moment ! Hear how they shout, ' Long live the
Empire!1' How can the Empire fail with such a leader ?"
"And look there, Inez! " cried Akita, again, as the offi-
cers of the staff, rode forward; "there is Count Isolani! Do
you remember him? See! he is looking up ! "
Inez was leaning forward when Anita spoke. She had been
watching the Emperor so closely, that no one else upon the Plaza
had been seen or heard ; but as the name of "Count Isolani "
fell upon her ear, she was startled-.to herself again, and drew
herself back. She had not been quick enough. As she turned,
a party of officers passed just beneath, and looking up to
the window where the Sisters stood, raised their caps in -re-
spectful obeisance. Inez had seen but one, among them,
had felt the gaze of but one pair of dark, earnest eyes, that
long, long ago, had burned their impress upon her heart. It
was Count Isolani!
Anita turned as. they passed; and as she noted the pallor
that had overspread Inez's face, and the hasty arranging of her
veil, she knew that all' earth-love --all earth-ties -- were not
dead, were not severed yet.
Yes, he was there, and had seen her ; the wave of his hand
as he touched his hat told her that her face he could never
forget or mistake. It was true, the thought' had come to her
before, that he would conle with the Emperor to Querataro;
but then she had not realized that she was to see him. She
had learned to think of him as she did of the dead; and he
would be. no nearer to her in.spirit in Querataro, than if the
ocean rolled between them; for, alas! it was not' distance that
divided them!
There was time for no more; the, noise and shouting had
ceased, and the multitude, with uncovered heads, waited to
hear what their Emperor would say in greeting them.'.
As Maximilian sat there in the midst of his officersand,,in
that moment .of silence, cast his, glance over the sea of. up-
turned faces, and recalled the shouts of joy, and the acolama=
tions of triumphant exultation, scarcely lost upon the breeze,
with which the people of -Querataro had welcomed him, his
heart, that had of late grown a little unused to such, and had
16

J1

axo w  aEWELs:           361


CR0 WN JEWELS.          Q38

't

known and felt instead so much of sorrow, duplicity, and
treachery, warmed toward these citizens with tender love.
Today there was a burst of sunlight across his path, s'
darkened by clouds. Whatever doubts he had for- some
months past entertained as to his acceptability as a ruler, were
at this moment dispelled ; for he felt that the heart of this
people beat in unison with his. They rejoiced with him, and
mourned with him; they loved him, and trusted him; and he
would be true to them. A feeling of strength not altogether
unmixed with hope, came over him, and he swore inwardly that
he would protect them. This should be his Thermopylae; if
his life must go, it should go in defence of Querataro.
The crowd was growing impatient; they were anxious to
hear the sound of his Majesty's voice; and the Emperor felt
that he must speak now, and think another time.
"People of Querataro!" he began, conquering his emotion,
"'we need make no explanation for our presence. here to-day.
You needed us, and we have-come. Children of my Empire !
we know but too well that there is but little time for aught
save action now. We are left alone to defend our own,
and we must be true to ourselves. We do not disguise the
fct, that the enemy is rallying for a test point; it is o be life
or death with us --life and honor, or'death and defeat  Mexi-
cans, our country must be saved ! and it is Mexicans tiat must
save it. Querataro must not fall! 'Citizens, beliye that
when the hour of strife comes, those who to-day swear to de-
fend you, will be found willing to' perish for their 'Word. The
clouds that do beset us now must be dispelled, and the day
must )come when we shall see our country prosperous and
blessed ! To-day, before you, I hold up my hands,.as an honest
man, to that 'Judge whom no man can corrupt,' and ask of
Him, does all this strife and bloodshed come because the Em-
peror Maximilian is at your head? God knows - and I believe
that you feel - that we came to Mexico animated by a high and
lofty desire to do this people good; that we came conscien-
tiously convinced that it was the wish of, the people of Mexico
that we should rule over them; that we came to unite all antag-
onistic principles and divisions in one national ambition. We
ca4p0e to bring peace ; for well do we all know 'there is a higher.
Tan. the warrior's excellence;' well do we know that it is 'not
vast deeds of violence,' not.
-"'Adventures wild, and wonders of the moment,
.  .  .  .  .  . that generate
The Calm, the Blissful, and the enduing Mighty.'

It is the calm of prosperity, the strength of united parties,
the blissful calmness of peace, that Mexico must have, to build
up a monument worthy of herself; and it is for this we strive.
Without bloodshed; if it was possible, was our hope. We
communicated personally with the chiefs who claim to fight
in the name of liberty and the principles of progress, to induce
them to submit the question of the form of government and
ruler, as we are willing to do, to the national vote. What was
their answer?  They have responded to me by ordering loyal
and distinguished citizens to be executed; they have repulsed
the fraternal hand which was.extended; they have worked as
blind partisans, who know no other means of governing but
the sword. There is nothing left then for us, for those who
are the true lovers of liberty, but to work with the greatest
energy to restore it to the people, and we shall feel that we are
the nation's true defenders. This question, people of Querataro,
may be settled here, with the enemy who overlook you. God
grant that this may be the end of the struggle ! God grant
that the sword of Mexican and brother Mexican may clash
for the last time at the conflict for which we now gather
strength! And then may Peace--blessed Peace! brood like
a dove over the length and breadth of this land. Should the
issue be at Empire or a Republic, an Emperor or a President,
may all be well with this nation ; it shall be accepted by us. It
shall never be said that the Emperor Maximihan stood in his
people's way; that he loved himself better than them ! No, no,
my people;.remember that your Emperor labors for your good
only ; that he loves you first, and his own life, only as he may be
spared to save you! "
"Viva l'Empire ! We will have the Emperor Maximilian
for our ruler ! God bless our Emperor ! " came up again and
again in united voice. " They give, up the Emperor for Juarez;
they give a noble patriot for an ambitious revolutionist!"
Ah! if the decision had but been submitted to the people of
Querataro!
The day wore on and drew to its close, as all days must,
whether filled up with joy and gladness, or with sorrow and
mourning.
The Emperor and his staff escaping from the clamorous and
demonstrative joy of the people on the Plaza, were conducted
to the apartments at the Casino that had been fittell up for
their use. The Emperor consented to occupy them for only a
few days, for he felt his place was with' his soldiers; whatever

X362            CROON JEWELS.

t'


364            CROWN.JEWELS.

c               .

OCR0W JEWELS.                365

comforts were accorded to them were enough for him likewise-
and the inconveniences and hardships that fell to their lot, he
was willing to share.
It was long after the' daylight had gone: darkness had
closed in, and night had spread a solemn hush over the city.
The people, tired out with joy, and secure in the presence of
their Emperor, had long since gone to rest, and the streets were
well-nigh deserted. A few scattering moonbeams straggled
through the breaks in the drifting clouds, and fell over the stone
towers of the old cathedral pile, glanced across the open Plaza,
glinting here and there on a satined orange-lea, that shone as a
miniature crystal sheen in the darkness; while from. the hidden
blossoms of the rows of orange-trees that crossed the centre,
came forth a soft, exquisite odor.
The Plaza, too,was deserted, save, perhaps, a wretched lepero,
who finishing, one more day of beggar life; came to the night
".without where to lay his head,"- and crept stealthily under
the shade of the orange-trees, to wait for another dawn, -de-
serted, save one; one who backward and forward kept up a
restless step on the stone pavement that looked up to the gray,
sombre front of the Cathedral.
Victor Isolani had left his companions at the Casino to seek,
the rest that was not for him; for while his| heart, his brain,
was on fire, it was air, stillness, solitude, that he must have.
The bitter drop had not been left out of the day's cup of joy to
him. From the moment that his eyes had taken in again the
face of the one he had enshrined in his heart as a watching
saint when he had seen again the nobility, the goodness, the
beauty of the one whom his eyes had forsworn forever to look
upon with earth-love, all beside had been lost on him. The
turmoil of the multitude, the moving to and fro, the compli-
ments that seemed so empty, the jests so pointless, so ill-timed,
oppressed and stifled him; he longed for the coming of the
midnight hour, when his heart should be free to beat against its
bars; should be free to test the strength of its bonds.
He had come here, where he had seen her; and as he looked
up to the great gothic window where, she had stood,. he seemed
to feel that she had left something of her presence behind ; that
the atmosphere was purer and holier on this spot than else-
where; that there were inspirations of strength here that he
could Ifind nowhere beside. He had seen .' her there in the
noonday with the holy Sisters, and he had not noted if' she
were different from the rest ; but what mattered it, if she wer8

one of them? What mattered it if she, too, had taken the holy
vows? It did not change her in his heart. She was there, his
guardian spirit ; he gave her up on earth, but she was to be his
own in heaven. He had thought, when he pledged to her, at
their last parting, that they should meet no more, that it wouId
be so ; and in coming to Querataro, he had no thought to seek
her out; but chance had given them what each; perhaps, needed
for strength to press on in their journey. And that journey?
When, - where, thought Count Isolani, as he passed his hand
over his brow, when should he or they reach its end ? Was it
for him away -away down the three-score and ten?- Was it for
her, when the raven hair was whitened, and the dark eyes were
dimmed ? There was to be fighting here at Querataro; perhaps
the end might come to him when the field was hottest and the
drum was loudest. Well, come when it would, he had strength
to meet it!  There was a tinge, perhaps, of pleasure, in the
thought that, should he meet the soldier's fate here, perhaps
Inez might come to him; perhaps she' might close his eyes
under the coffin lid; perhaps she might enwreath his grave with
flowers wet with the dew of tears. His country and his Godi
to them his duty was. Her duty, 'she had said, "lay in the
keeping of a vow; and for his life's happiness he must not
tempt her to sin by breaking it.
And so he thought,on, all alone in the still watches of the
night ; thought of his life, the part of his life in Germany, shut
off by the broad Atlantic, and wondered if the heart that spake
to him to-night of duty, of resignation, of heaven, was- the
same that, in the olden youthful time, had, known no master,
had gone out and come in only at its own bidding! And won-
dered too, should his feet ever tread again those sunny slopes
of the Tyrol; should his eyes ever look up to the grand hills
and the, towering Alps, that lay beyond the old castle where
his ancestors had dwelt ?  Ah! that future is curtained wisely-
in, and all the calling, here wakes no echo from the hills that
are before. Victor Isolani, wondering and asking in, vain,
turned away from the Plaza before the first rays of the dawn
enveloped it in mist, contented to wait and hear the message
-each day as it came and went.


UROWN JEWEL S.

a6s

CROWN JEWELS.

CHAPTER XLIII.

HE presence of the Emperor Maximilian at Querataro
was as inspiring to the officers and soldiers of the
division stationed there, as to the people The hope-
less desperation, the utter despair of all things earthly,
the indifference to life or death, that filled the Emperor's heart'
now since the last stroke had fallen -upon him in the affliction
of the Empress Carlotta, gave to him a freedom 'from fear, a
daring courage, that was mistaken by all, save those who knew
him best, for confident hope, determination, and certainty of
ultimate success. And, as faithfully as if indeed he trusted to
win again his fortunes upon the die to be thrown here at Que-
rataro, did the Emperor labor to-,secure to the Empire all. ad-
vantages. Each day saw him in the saddle, overlooking the
fortifications which the soldiers were throwing up beyond the
city ; and each night he was in the camps of the men, moving
among them like a "spirit, giant born," commanding love and
homage, yet full of sympathy and condescension. Never before
had the soldiers of the army and the officers felt such unity of
purpose as now; for all knew that if they were successful here,.
there was a chance for the Empire; if they failed, -all was lost:
so all worked with heart and soul together. There were Gen-
erals Mendez, Miramon, Marquez, Meija, Castillo, all resting.
neither night nor day, but lending their aid to the Emperor in
the supervision of the fortifications.
It was not until The middle of March that the first attack.
was made by the forces of Escobedo; and though its result was
the repulsing of the Liberals, the Emperor only saw but too
clearly that he could never hold out against the superior force
of the enemy in a regular engagement, though be might now
and then be successful in a sortie. And, too, he had not pro-
visions enough to stand a long siege. In view of the latter.
event, General Marquez was ordered to the capital, with a
thousand men, to obtain re-enforcements and secure provisions
and munitions of war, and to return in a space of fifteen days.
In the meantime, it was the policy to keep off an attack from
Querataro until Marquez should return.
A period of' anxious waiting it was; and to better preserve

the ignorance of the enemy in regard to his weakness, the
Emperor ordered a sortie to be made every few days, always
appearing with the troops himself, and always returning to
the city successful. Time passed on: the fifteen days were
gone, and Marquez had not returned. Provisions were getting
scarce, and the poor were beginning to suffer. It was at this
period that the noble, unselfish heart of the Emperor displayed
itself. In the hospitals, by the bedside 9f the wounded soldier;
giving charity to the widows of those who had fallen on the
field; reducing the rates of provisions, which, in consequence of
the scanty supply, placed them almost beyond reach of the
poor, so that all might share alike, -he seemed a spirit of good
-everywhere a blessing, a universal benefactor. Nor would
he consent to enjoy comforts more than those around him.
Taking up apartments with his staff in a little room in the
tower of the church of La Cruz, which commanded a view of
the enemy's camp, he seemed more than human in his powers
of endurance, and the extent of self-abnegation.
It had reached the first of May, and still-still Marquez
did not come; but instead came the astounding intelligence,
that, after procuring the re-enforcements and leavmg the capital
to return, he had, by virtue of his power Lugar Yeniente (Lieu-
tenant-General) acted upon his own discretion, and had, carried
the forces to the relief of Puebla,. which was at this time be-
sieged by General Diaz, leaving the Emperor at Querataro to
get on without him. Had this movement been successful, his
undue arrogance of authority might have been pardoned, as
Puebla might have lent aid to Querataro; but as it ended in
the fall of Puebla and the utter rout of Marquez's command, it
only left the condition of Querataro. more. .hopeless. And
matters there were indeed growing desperate. 'With no hope
of relief or assistance now from any quarter, there was nothing
left for the Emperor but to. arm the citizens; and this seemed
a forlorn resort.S
The Liberals, still some thirty thousand strong, lay off to the
north-west, in their camps, quietly waiting; waiting yet work-
ing, working as the mole, who burrows at your feet and under-
mines you where you stand. Burnishing the- steel of the bay.
onet through the day, and knowing that it was the chinking of
gold at night, in a traitor's ear, that should give them adis-
graceful victory.heai
A cloudy, darksome night, full of chilliness and gloom!

367


868             Cno WN JEWELS.

All along the hills that encircled the city hung a heavy cur-
tain of mist; and beyond, dull and heavy, sounded the drums
in the Liberal camp, beating the long-roll.. Hurriedly the list
is run over by the officers; and each man answering to his
name, the tattoo separates them for' the night. They go, each
soldier to his rude pallet, with naught 'to shut out the pen-
etrating mist save the piece of canvas, with which he is con-
tent; and.before an hour has gone by, all things earthly are the
same to him, -forgotten in that mutual friend of high and
low, rich and poor, -sleep, blessed sleep1!
" Spirits black and white !"  A strange array there was in
those Liberal camps, pledged to defend the banner of the
Republic; yet a union, perhaps, differing not much from the
make-up of every army.
Men, doubtless there were, sleeping there, who believed it to
be the patriot's fire that warmed their hearts; -men who be-
lieved it their duty to God, to oppose the institution of mon-
archy, and who therefore cried out for a Republic, even though
it kept their country forever deluged in blood:- and beside
them, men, who, believing themselves patriots, fought for the
shadow of Liberty, and saw not they were rejecting the sub-
stance,-beside them slept, perhaps, a thousand adventurers,
having no home no countryy.
"Outcasts of all foreign lands,
Unclaimed by town or tribe, to whom belongs
Nothing except the universal sun ;-".
men that love the sound of drum and fife -that have nothing to
make life dear; that care naught for the soft peace march; for
the green garlands and flowery wreaths woven by tender hands
with which to greet the home-returning soldier; -men that
fight for excitement, not peace ; who love the furious onset, the
shock of battle, because there the restless current of life within.
them finds vent in full force ; and if they can .but forget them-
selves what matters it whose country is sacrificed, whose home
is desolated, whose blood is spilled !
But now, since the lights are all'out among the men, and silence
keeps watch with them, we may steal into that large tent that
is planted to the left apart from the 'others, and see why-it is
that darkness reigns not there ; for the light burning, still beams
out into the mist.
Within, around the. little table on which is spread out a
map of the city of Querataro, are' gathered. -some standing,
others seated-the. officers who command this Liberal army,

RO WY JEWgLS.                   36
who fight for Benito Juarez .and the Republic. Thei-e is
Palacio, Corona, Veliz, Garza, and other faces that are strange;
but there, - there - sitting beside General Escobedo in citi-
zen's dress -it cannot be! have we not seen him before in
the council of the Emperor Maximhan ?    Oh! would that
Joubert's friendly voice, or brave Khevenihuller's penetrating
glance could be cast here to-night, that they might cry out
so loud as to wake echo around, 'MiguelJopez! what dost
thou here?"
"And so the Emperor has heard at last what detained his
trusty Marquez!" exclaimed General Escobedo, the command-
ing officer. "Ha ! ha ! what a marvel of discipline that Impe-
rial army must be! How much, think you, the head o%one of
these Generals here, would be worth under similar circum-
stances ? Would you give a hundred reals for yours, Veliz?
But I guess the point with those in the city there is to save
their own heads -every man for himself; and the good Emperor
would give a good deal for his own in a few days, if we mistake
not; eh ! Colonel Lopez?  But enough of this ! You say,
since Maximilian has heard of Marquez's defeat, he has given
.orders that three thousand of the citizens are to be armed.
Well, in the first place, 'he will, from all accounts, find it hard
work to find arms for them; and in the second, he might as well
put guns in the paws of so many rats, for the good they'lls do
him. Heaven help the place that must trust to its citizens
for its defence ! But again,--- we will get off the track, -think
-yo~u, Colonel Lopez, that the city can be held ten days longer'?
Already, we hear, they, are enjoying horse-flesh; think you
tat dainty fare will last them a fortnight more ? Come,
come! .lhe contined, as Colonel Lopez seemed to hesitate and
glance at the officers around, "you need fear nothing here; we
al understand this matter ; now is the time for confidence,
mutual and unreserved. Y-ou come into our camp undisturbed,
and go away with all the knowledge you. please to gather; and
now you must give us a favor in return."
" Gentlemen! .said Colonel Lopez, turning himself 'to the
'officers, and seeming not altogether pleased with Escobedo's
freedom of manner and speech, - "gentlemen ! " he continued
gavely, "you, whom I have not met before, doubtless wonder
in your heart at my presence here to-night, and, perhaps, are
read y  condemn it; but I beg' you listen tome one moment.
Sove  eico as my country, as well as any among you, though
you have seen me among the followers of the Imperial cause. I
.16*


CROWN JEWELS.             371

870                CR0 WY JEWELS.
consider that as one of
do freely acknowledge here, that ciered atonseof
the grievous errors of my life;   tt the cause of the Re 
Now since I have become conye               I turn to it
public is the one which will prosper our country,  I  am
Your General here tells me -has told me before - that I am
right, and says to me,'You want to serve us? Then stay where
you are. You are worth more than a thousand menxios where
you ae'And sacrificing personal fghicnis fodeio's good,
for your good, I remain and act a part which is odious to my
nature. I bear the slur that may hearafter be cast by malicious
tongues upon my name, feeling that I have done my country a
service." ~                  .       be   risinsuddenly
"Slur upon your name-!' cried Escobo, risig s    alyof
fro his seat;- "no ! it will shine brighter in te gal.xy o
patriots. No, no ! we all know adouhonor he pure patotism
that prompts your action, an  oubly do we honor the candor
of the spirit that strives to make such atonement for an error;
and right nobly are you serving the Republic now, ,and ,,,
obl will she reward you when she makes   er jewels
Then, turn   to his officers: "These are your friends. Come,
give us your hand, Colonel Lopez, and talk to us freely as
brother to brother, for such in heart we are. d  i
Escobedo himself set the example, and extended his hand
warmly across to the new-made comrade. Was it accidentor
chance,' that, while the others followed, General Ecerley
turned aside, and walking 'to the front of the tent, looked
out, absently.  As it was, the action was unnoticed; and
when he came back to the little table, the officers were again
bending over the map.
"Do you think, Colonel Lopez," began General Escobedo,
who again took the itiative,-  do you think Maximilian can
hold out ten days longer? and  not     ih n  to ste
his programme ? Does he intend then to show fight, or to take
French leave of us?"
A"If I were to hazard an opinion concerning the plans of
Archduke Maximilian," said Colonel Lopez, slowly measuring
his words, "I should say that Querataro will be evacuated.'
"Hazard an opinion!" exclaimed Escobedohathardly inow
  him, animatedly. "My good Colonel, t '      nfair,
to be so close and niggardly with .your words, after ou unde-
standing a few moments since, particularly when we all azard te
strong personal ties between Maximilian and yourself. Hazar
an opinion ! that is hardly plain enough for soldiers.Do'

haggle with us; ", and leaning over, he whispered a few words
into his ear, which, if'heard aright, might have been, " We have
never haggled over terms with you," but which, whatever they
were, caused a flush to overspread Lopez's face, as he answered
quickly and shortly, --
" Ah ! well, - Querataro, then, is to be evacuated."
"But when?   In the coming ten days, think you?  Yes?
then we can fall to work in earnest. Colonel Lopez has agreed
with me before, gentlemen, to give us the entree of the city,
through a break in the wall here," marking the point on the
map. "The posts of the city in his command are to be given
up to the regiments that enter first ; and while the Imperial-
ists sleep and dream away the night, we shall give them not a
very pleasant awakening. Quite a grand checkmate to the Em-
pire, is it not ? "
The commander turned with a triumphant laugh, half-sup-
pressed, to his officers ; and each, as they heard for the first.
time the cunningly devised plan, revealed in their counte-
nances, the feeling with which the knowledge was received in
their hearts.
" What ? what, General Escobedo'? "cried General Echegary,
suddenly stopping his walk beside the officer. "And is this
the fighting, this the victory you have promised to your sol-
idiers? Are we to take advantage of this -" he scarcely .
checked himself from "treachery," in time for another word
and finding none to fill its pl&amp;ce, omitted it altogether.
"Though our enemy, the Archduke Maximilian is a brave man
and for God's sake, let us meet him in the open field, and give
him fair fight, as.one brave man should another ! Surely we
need have no fear of the end, when he has only nine thousand
men, and we thirty. Let us not take advantage of this -
let us not steal upon them as a thief in the night. It will be
forever a stain upon our banner, to plant it on high thus. The
world will never honor such a cause: let us attack the city, to-
morrow - when you will; we are all ready--but do us jus-
tice; let us win our victory openly and fairly!"
"Ah, Echegary, Echegary," exclaimed the General, shaking
his head, "you are a brave soldier, and will fight to the
death; .but you don't quite understand that important part of
warfare, called,--strategy. ' All's fair, you know,' etc. And
as for the world, that bugaboo, and our cause being hon-
ored, ha, ha! I know a little of the world, and know that if


CROWN JEWELS

873

you are successful, the world never stops to ask how you suc-
ceeded. Ah !
There's many a crown shines spotless now
Was deeply sullied in the winning.?
So come, come ! content yourself to fall in with our .ideas !
Doubtless we could quite annihilate Maximilian and his whole
army in an open fight; but this is a shorter and less troublesome
way. Besides, it is not his army, but himself, we wantto put
out of the way. For take him off, and I warrant you, in a
week, nine tenths of them will shout as loudly for the Republic
as they ever did for the Empire. So hush up your pious scru-
ples, Echegary, and lend us your ear."-
"cOnly one word before you proceed, General," said Eche.
gary. "You know, as a soldier, I must obey all orders you
may see fit to give me, now, or in the future; but I beg to have
nothing to do with this planning. Permit me to retire."
"Well, go, then ! and bad luck attend you!" exclaimed
Escobedo, half petulantly, as Echegary left the tent.
" But," interrupted Lopez, anxiously, while a smile stole
over the faces of those around, "can you trust that man? will
he not betray us ?
"Trust him ! trust him! " echoed the officers.
" No fear of Echegary," continued Corona; "he is blunt and
peculiar, but he is as true as steel. He may not work with us
now, but he'll never work against us."
Through the mist and dampness, over the valley along the
hillside, echoing lingeringly, comes, from the city the solemn
tolling of the midnight bells.
" Ah ! is it so late?" said Colonel Lopez, starting up.
" Twelve? I must be in by one o'clock ; so we must say au re-
voir /"
" Stay! "=said General Escobedo, laying his hand upon his
shoulder; "let us understand each other. You will be on the
outside of the wall on the night, in question, and will yourself
conduct the regiment you may find waiting. In the meantime,
keep us advised ; and for the other part of our agreement, you
hold a sure claim on us for that;" and again he leaned over, and
whispered to Lopez, while the others were preparing to depart;
again whispered the something that brought the flush to his
face. -.
" Here, Colonel Garza, conduct Colonel Lopez beyond the
guard. One word more, and then good-night. Maximilian

and his staff lodge at present in the tower of La Cruz Church,
and take observations therefrom? Veliz, see that you send a
shell there with friendly greeting, the first thing after drill to-
morrow, and 'continue the compliment 'from time to time, dur-
ing the day. Good-night, Colonel Lopez! Heaven's blessing
attend you !"
Heaven's blessing attend Lopez, the traitor ! Heaven's bless-
-ing attend Judas, 'who hath sold his Master for thirty pieces of
silver! Heaven's blessing attend the hypocrite.who, to-night,
hast taken the patriot's name in vain ! God, who rules over
heaven and earth, forbid ! forbid !
What is it, who is it, that attends that solitary figure hur-
rying over the misty plain?  What spirit is it ? Can it be
only a wavy shadow, that, floating above him in mid-air, holds
the sword of Vengeance already drawn, above his head, and
keeping pace with him, however fast he goes, whispers with a
thousand voices, " Lopez, the traitor ! the traitor! "
Nemesis, Nemesis ! hold back thy swordI thine hour is not
yet come !

CHAPTER XLIV.

HE sun, of the Empire was indeed setting ; sinking
forever behind the hills of Time. All industrial and
prosperous pursuits had long ago been checked. Long
ago, the villages of the emigrants-that had given such
promise of growth, falling beyond the line of Imperial protec-
tion, as the forces were concentrated nearer the interior, had
been deserted, and the emigrants gone elsewhere to seek the
home of peace which Mexico could not give them.  All other
enterprises,:national or private, were  bed in the great life
and death struggle of the Empire, which had now well-nigh
reached its crisis. The star of the Republic had been gradually
rising in the horizon, for months past. Juarez held all the
northern provinces; and one by one, the cities of the interior

VA 0 WN JEWELS.


CROWN JEWELS'

CROWN JEWELS.

had fallen into his hands ; and now since Puebla was gone, there
was only Querataro and the capital left.
And Querataro, where the last desperate stand was to
have been made, - it, too, was to be given up ! General
Marquez had struck the Empire a fatal blow when he deprived
the Emperor of the re-enforcements from Mexico City. With
those, the army at Querataro might have given battle to Esco-
bedo, and won the day. With this success, he could have again
rallied, and perhaps gathered an army sufficient to cope with
Juarez. -As it was, the Emperor Maximilian was too consci-
entious to sacrifice his whole army, by either making or stand-
img an attack.  Provisions, too, had grown so scarce, that the
troops must fall back towards the capital to obtain subsistence;
and so the evacuation was determined upon. General Meija was
to be left with twelve hundred armed citizens to cover the re-
treat, with orders to surrender at his discretion, after giving the
army twenty-four hours' advantage. One thing after another
delayed the evacuation, until, at last, the night of the 14th of
May was decided upon for the movement.
Slowly the day-god sank down beneath a cloudless horizon,
and as twilight came and went, one after another the stars
crept out, and sent their timid beams down upon the cactus-
lined hillside ; while high above all, in mid-heaven, in majestic
calmness, shone the quiet moon, sailing through. a sea of blue
ether.
In the city of Querataro, the soft beams descend on no scene
strange or new. From the corridors overlooking the court-
yards, comes the sound of merry laughter, telling that the jest
and banter go round the social circle just the same. Through
the open windows, the passers-by catch the soft, notes of the lute
and the guitar, following thedeep, mellow tones that troll out
some rich old Spanish melody ; and on the Plaza, promenading
in the moonlight under the 'orange-trees, are the whispering
lovers, that dream not of a time to come.
An hour' passes; one - two - three, and the night grows
on. Court-yards and corridors are silent; the windows are
closed, and the latest lingerer waits in vain .to catch another
note. The' Plaza and the orange-trees, too, are deserted.
The' people have gone to rest. Rest, rest ! ye who can! and
dream not of the morrow !
Throughout the whole city shines no light save the little oil-
lamp that flickers and -flares- up now and then in there tower
of the Church La Cruz. The dim, indistinct mistiness, the

t
t
Y
1

ghostly shadows that creep up now and then upon the walls
serve rather to make the darkness visible there, than to dis-
pel. it.
In'that little apartment there is no rest. Gathered in anx-
ious consultation, are the commanders of the. Imperial army,
the Emperor in their midst.  There is General Castillo, long
ago returned from his hapless nussion with the Empress Car-
lotta; and now since diplomacy is no longer required, serving
the Empire in the field. There is the lion-hearted Meija,
ready to die at his young Emperor's command ; Miramon, the
ex-President of the Republic, to whom these scenes of changing
governments' are nothing new; there is Prince. Salm-Salm,
a German officer, who has but recently joined his Majesty in
Mexico, yet ranking high upon his staff; there is Count Iso-
lani, always trusted, and always faithful; and there, by the
Emperor's side, just as we saw him seven nights since, by.Esco-
bedo's, is Colonel Miguel Lopez, alas ! likewise, always trusted.
This was, each felt in their heart, though none spake out,
perhaps, the last council they should ever hold together over
the interests of the Empire, and a spirit of solemnity ,and awe
akin to that which haunts the death-chambers of earth, seemed
to hover near.
The lights had long been extinguished in the camps, and
the men were resting on their, arms, gathering strength for
the march that was to begin before the day dawning ; and the
generals had assembled together in the Emperor's room  to re-
ceive the last orders.
Sternly and determinedly, though hopelessly, each one looked
into the face of the other. They knew that their cause was
almost gone ; that this move was a last desperate chance; only
a lengthening out as .it were, of suspense. A miracle might
save them, human agency scarcely could; and yet, were they
determined to fight as long as their noble Emperor would lead
them, and though there was no hope of success, they would. die
like brave men should. Pride and despair sat haughtily upon
each brow, and each resolved that the world should know that
they .were true to the end.
The last orders were given; the hour for marching was
named, and one by one, with a warm grasp of their Emperor's
hand, and a fervent "Heaven speed us ! " the officers went
down the steep narrow steps that led up to the tower, into the
vestibule of the church, out into the quiet streets; where, sepa-.
rating, each took his way to his own quarters.

a74

375


876             CROWN JEWELS.

377

Colonel Lopez lingered with the Emperor, when the others
were gone. He had always been accustomed to share much of
the Emperor's confidence ; and of late, since the coming to
Querataro, Maximilian's heart had been opened more to him
than ever before. To-night, left thus alone, the two were soon_
together on the Plaza, in front of the church.
"YourMajesty, perhaps, had best say good-night here, and
go up again to sleep for the few hours that are left. You will
feel the need of repose to-morrow."
" Sleep has forsaken my eyes;" exclaimed 'the Emperor,
"and repose, I know not the word. If you are not too
much fatigued, Lopez, come, let us take a turn across the Plaza,
here; all seems so quiet, we are not likely to be disturbed."
Ah ! Lopez, Lopez!" continued the Emperor, mournfully,
as the two walked slowly, arm in arm, across the pavement,
that it has come to this- to this.! I could weep tears of blood
that our cause has come this to last strait. If it were only as in
those olden days, when God gave not the battle to the strong,
nor the race to the swift! "-- and, as if half-forgetting that he
was not alone, he murmured aloud those beautiful stanzas on
the destruction of Sennacherib:
'Like the leaves of the forest, when summer is green,
That host with their banners, at sunset was seen;-'
Like the leaves of the forest, when the autumn hath blown,
That host on the morrow, lay withered and strewn.
For the angel of death spread his wings on the blast,
And breathed in the face of the foe as he passed;
And the eyes of the sleepers wax'd deadly and chill,
And their hearts but once heaved, and forever grew still.'
Ah! Lopez, my friend, if that angel would but breathe
not into the face of friend or foe, but into this face that these-
eyes might grow heavy and chill ! And it is to be so! The
voices that proclaim in due season the fates of men, already
ave whispered mine.to me; they have never before been false
prophets, and they will not fail me now; th4y whisper but one
word -- dah"
"et Wh.
What, wlat ! my Emperor,? " exclaimed Lopez, "such
despair, such despair? It wrings my heart to see you doubting,
when so many stand brave and true beside you."
"Despair ? not despair, Lopez ! weariness - weariness with
struggling, with living, were better names. My country-
for Mexico is my country ; I belonged to her when first I
touced 1ese shores -my country gone --my wife -Carlotta,
my beautiful, peerless wife !" and his voice, though choked

CROWN JEWELa.

'with rising tears, sounded tenderly and softly, as he whis-
pered her name. " Ah ! there was the cruel blow, that stabbed
hope --life -all- to the heart! What should I care for
success, since she may not share the triumphs.?  The defeat,
thank God, she may not grieve for that ! "
"Defeat, your Majesty ? I beseech you, trust that it will
not be so. We' are not yet defeated; we may yet make a
stand beYond Querataro; we may yet drive Escobedo back.:
the darkest hour only heralds the dawn. You, -you, our
Emperor, must sustain us; you must uphold us; the men must
see your'eye bright, that theirs be not dimmed; your voice
must be firm, that theirs may not falter."
"You are right, my true, trusty, friend ! Your words. come
with strength to my soul," cried the Emperor, suddenly rally-
ing his failing energies. " This has been a moment of weak-
ness, of the heart's unburdening; and we shall be stronger on the
morrow for it. Even the stoutest need these relief periods,
when the billows bear them on too fast. And to whom would
I sooner give the " Open Sesame " to the hidden chambers in
the heart's cave beneath the sea, than to you?  Thank God,
that, with allmy woes, He blessed me with faithful friends."
For a whilethe two walked together in silence ; and then
Maximilian spoke again.
" Lopez, while we are. alone, let me speak freely to you.
Saving Isolani, I know no one dearer. I shall go away from
Mexico.- to -to -Miramar -:- Austria - heaven, perhaps.
I feel the spirit of coming events, and we all see their shadows.
You will remain. Your home will be here in Mexico. When the
Empire is dead and gone, and the people far and near, even my
people, cry out, "Viva Ia R6pubhique" nay, if you, yourself
should grow republicanized, forget not the Emperor of Mexico.
Separate the cause from the man; and when some wild ran-
cheros, in a patriotic hour, may curse the Empire, forbid him
the Emperor's name. Compel him to .hold that. sacred; and
tell him that the Emperor loved Mexico better than his own
life, and would have died freely and willingly to have'given her
peace."
" I  republicanized, your Majesty?" exclaimed.Lopez, with
well-feigned disgust.  "Whatever may be the changes that
sweep this land, I trust Lopez will stand firm;. this heart will
never grow cold to the name of the Emperor Maximilian, whose
friendship has been one -of the blessings of its life."
"Yes, we love to call up your acts of devotion; would that~


878            CROWN JEWELS.

i

we might reward, and repay them all fifty-fold! And there is
your son, our little godchild ; are we so ill off, that we have
no gift for him ? Ah ! we shall see that he is remembered.
A bright-eyed boy he must be now. I see him,. as he was,
when we all stood before the bishop. in the Cathedral, and he
lay'in your arms. Do you remember how gleefully the little
cherub laughed with delight and threw up his arms, when the
holy water fell on its face ? Forget not, as he grows up, to
teach him the names of his godfather and godmother. But away
with these tender memories," exclaimed Maximilian; " they
make a child of me ! Well ! I have done now, and to-morrow,
'Richard will be himself again.' See ! it lacks of twelve, does
it not? the moon is high above us, and here we are at the door
of the vestibule. Isolani and Salm-Salm, who lodge with me,
are doubtless wondering if I have deserted them. I saw them
go in when we were across the Plaza, some time ago. Well, we
part here; go, rest till three ! and then action - action -ac-
tion ! Heaven bless you, Lopez!"
Did not those words of blessing burn and hiss in the traitor's
heart, the last his injured friend and Emperor ever spoke to
him?
And dost thou dare, 0 Lopez ! by calling out an answering
"Heaven bless you ! " summon Heaven to witness the foul,
blackening lie, the wicked lie, that this night thou hast been
thinking, acting, speaking?
The Emperor passed in and closed the door of the vestibule.
For some moments, Lopez stood in silence ; and the moon
shone down upon his face, pallid axed white. Ah ! Conscience,
Conscience is not yet dead! and now, to-night, she lifts her
voice, to her murderer : " Could he betray him, the friend
that trusted him, and opened to him his innermost heart?
The man that was godfather to his first-born, - could he sell
him-- and for gold, sordid, paltry,-corrupting gold ? How true
had he been to him with his tongue, how false in his heart !
Could he not yet turn back? there was one hour yet, be-
fore the last step was taken, before the seal was fixed, And that
one hour might save him from the climax of his evil deed." Oh !
that he had heard this voice, months and months ago ! then,
then, if he had only cast out the devil from his heart ! but now,
now it was too late ! A hundred voices could proclaim already
the lengths to which he had gone. Already, perhaps, Esco-
bedo's regiments waited beyond the wall ; and then there was the
gold, - thirty thousand pieces of gold, - bright, shining, ,yel-

CRO W. JWELSo             319

low.  Clutching that thought to his heart, he turned into a
side street, and the Plaza was deserted.
Gone, gone, gone to his evil work, while his victims sleep.!
A quiet night it is ! The song of the night-bird ,sounds
fainter, and more faintly still, from the valley. Now the sweet
notes are hushed. Far away - away, has the singer flown
to the greenwood's depth. See ! how the moonbeams rest upon
the orange-trees, and how broad the shadow of the old Cathe-
dral lies out upon the Plaza. Lay your hand upon your heart
in this magic stillness. Does the life-pulse still beat ? do the
wheels of Time move on?
Dong !
One -by the bells !
Again, silence. An intense, maddening, fatal silence. Is
there not one voice that can,-that will, -break the spell,
and cry out, with a shout that shall rouse the sleeping hills
themselves, "Awake ! awake ! Treason stalks abroad !""
Hush !  Was it a footstep?    Another -another - and
another. How many ? They cannot be counted.. Tramp -
tramp -tramping, on they.come toward the Plaza.
Hark !  To the left there must be others; for there too
sounds the tramp -tramp --tramp of soldiers' feet. 'The moon
has hid her face behind the clouds; and as they come up across
the Plaza, we cannot see whether it be friend or foe that comes
ungreeted and unexpected. Will no one waken -ah ! there -is
the voice of a sentry crying out, "Marquez - Marquez has
come to help us ! "
That shout has roused the multitude. A thousand doors open
wide ; a thousand glad voices echo, "Marquez has come ! God
be praised ! God be praised!"  The bells from every tower
catch the refrain, and with trumpet voices in wild, mad joy,
tumultuously swell the exultant cry.
But listen ; there is -a shriek ! Are the Imperial soldiers
wild, that they rush at the sound of that voice, from their tents,
like madmen. Oh, God ! they hear those fatal words again,
ringing out,
" We are betrayed, betrayed ! the enemy is in our midst ! "
The clouds have gone, and the moon comes out upon a
scene of mad confusion - of hurrying to and fro - of com-
mands given and revoked in the same breath;. of hastily
formed battalions; squadrons that rush hither and thither,
seeking the enemy they know not where. Now they have
met, and face the foe; there is the clashing of swords, the


CRO Y JEWELS.               381

sound of guns, the shriek of the wounded, the' groan of the
dying; and the voice of Meija rises above the' din,
" Die -Mexicans, die like brave men! Beat them back!"
While this goes on in the left .of 'the city, 'where is the
Emperor?   What has befallen La Cruz?
Already the officers, -Salm-Salm, Isolani, and Castillo,
sleeping near the Emperor in the Convent, are awakened; and
hearing the cries and tumult without, the firing of guns, and
ringing of bells, rush in to rouse the Emperor. In a moment
they guess the truth. They stop not to ask whose deed it is;
but only whispering, "We are betrayed]!" throwwide the lit-
tle window overlooking the Plaza. Already they hear the
sound of footsteps there ; and, oh?! wretched sight ! there is a
body of the enemy's infantry turning, this moment, into the
square."
"Now, now ! " exclaimed Isolani to the Emperor, hurriedly,
-" now is our time! We may escape wh le they are forming,
before they place their sentinels!"
The four rush down the staircase ; they swing back the door,
and are upon the pavement --not unperceived. An officer,
standing but ten steps off, rushes forward, and while the bat-
talion is forming, gives the command, "Halt!"
The Emperor and his officers take no heed, and again the cry,
" Halt ! halt!"
Count isolani, who is behind, seeing that all will be lost,
as the officer is now joined' by a score of men, and is advancing
upon .them, whispers to Salm-Salm, "On with the Emperor!"
and turning, with drawn sword, confronts the Liberal officer
and his men.                                        -  -
Only a moment he thinks ; he must stop them here, if only a
second, to give the others time. With a loud cry in German,
(hoping to pass as the Emperor), he rushes on the officer.
There are ten to one; and a moment later he-is left with as
many wounds, bleeding - dying, perhaps -upon the stone
pavement.
That moment has-given the Emperor and his officers, who
do not notice that Isolani is behind and- does not join them
again, time to escape. They hurry on, through the narrow
streets, which the enemy have not yet reached, in the direction
of the Empress's.Guard, Lopez's Regiment; meeting only now
and then a flying cavalry man, who stops to beg the Emperor
to take his horse and escape ; and who tells that~ Miramon is

wounded and captured; .that Mendez, too, is a prisoner, and
that all the posts in the west of the city are in General Corona's
possession.
They reach the camp of the Imperial escort, and there for
the first time -the Emperor hears from -his own men, the name
of the traitor. Stunned and overcome by the intelligence, the
Emperor, hearing too that General Meija had succeeded in es-
caping to a hill, El Cerro de las Campanas, just without the
city, with a considerable force, and had- left orders that all
shall join him there who can, moves towards him with his
escort,
The morning dawned; and with the first rays of light Max-
imilian and his officers look down upon the lines of thb enemy,
for already, are they formed to give them battle.
"General Meija, can we break those lines with our little
band ? " exclaimed the Emperor, earnestly, turning to the old
warrior.
Just then two batteries began to play upon them from the
Liberal forces, and in the roaring of shot and shell Maximilian
could just catch the noble answer, -
"Sire, it it impossible ; but if your Majesty orders it, we
will try it ; for my part I am ready to die."
A deadly pallor overspread the Emperor's face. He gasped
for breath; but in an instant a firmness cast his features in
an iron mould; and he turned to General Castillo :
" We must not lose, then, another moment, -- nor another
life ! . Quick ! there, General, a white flag upon the hill-top to
stop their fire. My God ! how much we would give' now for a
shell to end the matter with us!"
The firing ceased. A wild, triumphant shout ran along the
Liberal lines, as they saw the, signal from the hill. Their last
battle had been fought, and the victory was with them.
In another hour, two officers of the Emperor were holding
an interview with General Escobedo, offering; in the name ofi
his Majesty, Maximilian, to surrender on conditions that the
Emperor demanded. First,- that if General Escobedo desired
another victim, to take himself, the Emperor; second,-he wished
that the men of his army should be treated with all the consid-
eration that' their loyalty 'and valor merited ; 'and:third, that
he and the men of his, personal service' should bes treated as
prisoners of war.
Alas ! it was too late to demand aught hoer: there was no
choice left to the Emperor of Mexipo. The 'hand of Destiny,

f10

'III

11I

380            CROWN JEyPE


382               CROWN JEWELS.
of Fate, of Necessity, was upon him, and before the noontide
the hand of the enemy had led him and his men into the city ;
and when the evening calm fell on the earth again, Maximilian
looked out of the Convent window of La Cruz, a prisoner in
the hands of those who knew no mercy.
CHAPTER XLV.
3 INCE the Emperor's coming to Querataro, Anita and
Jnez had made no change in their mode of living;
and though repeatedly urged by friends to come to the
city for protection, they felt quite safe at their own
home; for though on the suburbs, they were sufficiently re-
moved from the camp to be out of the enemy's power ; and so,
in spite of persuasions, they remained at home.
They kept up with the military movements, from the daily
journals, and knew that affairs were approaching a crisis; yet
they were not prepared for the terrible midnight awakening,
nor the fearful intelligence which Pedro brought an hour later,
that "the city was in the hands of the enemy ; that Colonel
Lopezhad betrayed the Emperor; that his Majesty had escaped
with a small force to El Cerro de las Campanas ; that there had
been some hard fighting in the city, and the streets in some
places. were strewn with the deadand wounded men."
Anita and Inez waited not for the dawn to rise and attire
themselves; but hastening their toilet, were soon together
below stairs, where they sat by the window-side, watching for
the coming of the day, whispering in suppressed accents their
grief and sorrow.       _ -
" Ah, well, Inez," said Alita, at last, as the long hours
drew to a close, and the rosy flush that heralds Aurora s car
stole over the face of the gray sky ; "it's all over now with
the Empire ! But a poor, weak triumph the Liberals have,
-a shaming victory they have won. Don't grieve so, child;
they haven't-taken the Emperor, and he can go back to-Ger--
many."                                           ..
""No, no, Aita," replied Inez, sorrowfully and despairingly,
as the tears stood in her eyes; "they will have the Emperor,

CROWY JEWELS.                   8$3
and treachery will finish its work ! That Lopez- Colonel
Lopez - upon whom the Emperor has lavished, has heaped up
favors, should have done this; it cannot, cannot be possible 1"
An hour later, when the mocking sun had risen, old Pedro
came in from the city, where curiosity or anxiety, perhaps, had
led him as soon as it was safe to venture out.
" Ah, senorita ! senorita ! " he exclaimed, as he entered the
sitting-room, bringing the fresh water for the morning, "a sad,
pitiful sight it is, and it sickens my heart to look upon it. A
sentinel, grim and fierce, with his polished bayonet confronting
one at every turn; the city alive with the soldiers of the ene-
my on foot, on horseback, dashing hither and thither ; and all
along on the pavement, in the streets, our poor Imperial sol-
diers ; some dead as the stone on which they lie, and others
groaning with the pain of their wounds."
" But surely, Pedro, they are not leaving them there to die,
when some perhaps, might, be saved ! " exclaimed Inez, her
face pale, and terror-stricken. Did she think that perhaps
among them there might be one dear to her heart?
"No, no, senorita ; the good Fathers and some of the people
are out; and when I left they were moving them into the con-
vents, where the Sisters will do all they can for them."
"But oh ! they are so many, and the Sisters so few.. Anita
we must go at once-at once, and help them. We cannot sit
here idle in the face of so much suffering. I cannot stay an
hour longer, when I feel weare so much needed. Pedro!"
she called, as the old man closed the door behind him, "have
you heard aught more of the Emperor," as he reappeared:
"is he safe ? "
"Yes, senorita; his Majesty, and the generals, and a good
many of their men are over on the hill; but they say they
can't make a fight, and they can't get away; so the trouble's
not over yet. But poor, poor General Mendez ! he was cap-
tured, as he charged with his men a company of the enemy in
the street leading into the Plaza; and the order has been given
for him to be shot this morning."
" 0 -God! '" exclaimed Anita, covering her face with her
hands, 4and it is thus they will treat the Emperor. God keep
him from their hands!"
Afita and Inez entered the little court of the Convent to.
gether ; and as they turned to one side, and up on the corridor,
Sister 'T;h6rese crossed the hail at which they stood. She

0


CROWN JEWEL&amp;. 385

3$4               CRWV JEWELS

stopped an instant and beckoned them to come in. As they
reached er side near the door of a little cell, she whispered
hurriedly,
"We  .re quite crowded with the wounded. They have just
carried one in here,"pointing to the cell. "An Austrian officer,
I think. Let me 'see, what was his name -Count Iso-"
Inez's heart bounded, and then, in a moment, was still.
She had moved a step forward, and was looking in through the
low doorway.,l
Throughthe little end window, with its quaint-cut, vertical
panethe sun sent in a quiver of golden beams, and gleefully
the shafts dancedwith the shadows of the leaves of the elm that
grew just without, foriga mazy whirl upon the stone floor.
In te crner, was a low couch, and thereon, one in the uni-
frof anImperial officer. Stars glittered upon his breast,
forand the belt and sword, unclapsed, had fallen by his side. A
profusion of dark brown, matted hair lay out upon the pillow,
She fac noble, open, and handsome, was white and pallid,
like unto death.
He lay there alone; dead, she thought. She did not heed
tHa    he and Sister Th6rese had looked into that little cham-
that edid o    ear the latter whisper, "Poor fellow! there
ps  .hoe for him; he was wounded on the Plaza, they
say." n She did not note that Aflita had drawn the Sister away,
and   e    left there alone. No, no! Time had but one
hour, the world but one spot to her. Victories and defeats,
were all alike, all one, to that maiden standing face to face with
weeath, hiding in his grasp the one she loved' better than her
owDe heg oneshe had never, with, all her striving and
oayng been able to shut out from her heart.
prShe   een and knelt by the loW bed. One moment her
She went in annth  face and then like a stricken one, she
ees re uponfloor. That glance: had opened the flood-gates
of her u  n    he tide so long pent up came rushing over her
no   h seu,  watr t ofh  puo  devoted, unselfish  love, now  so
nol woefully intermingled ,with those of grief and agony.
She might love him now; she might shed those bitter, bitter
ea nmi ovain! forihe was to be taken from her; was going,
t perhaps - already gone. All her love, and all her weeping
could not hold him back from death. This was the last et-
in;the last parting was not far off. ,Ah, 'Duty, Duty ! take
i;th ha nowromher heart; se hath served thee faithfully;
she hath been th handiaiden through a dreary time; she hath

kept her vow, her word, within these last months, when she
had but to lift her voice and bid thee depart that Happiness
might come in thy place ; deny her not these hours of respite -
give her soul now its freedom !
An hour passed ; and Anita stole softly in, as women are wont
to do into chambers of death, and leaning over the wounded
man, was silent a moment, and then whispered to Inez,-
"Inez, my child, he still breathes, and will perhaps revive
again.. Stay, and watch beside him to-day."
She went out, but soon came in again with wine and a basin
of water, and whispering to Inez that she must bathe his brow,
and, if he roused up,, wet his lips with the wine, left them to-
gether alone.
The day passed on, the noontide, came and went, and the
shadows of the leaves on the the stone floor grew to mammoth
size, aad seemed crowding each other away.
For hours Inez sat by the little couch, chafing the hand of the
unconscious one in hers, moistening the parched lips, damping
the heavy locks that grew upon the brow, and striving, if pos-
sible, to bring back the breath of life ; wondering, too, the
while, if the spirit was to take its flight without, one adieu.
That thought steeped her soul in agony. " This -was the end -
the end! .He was to go away ; and she was to be left behind.
- That heart that had beat so strongly, so truly, s~o constantly
for her, would soon be stilled, and the clods of the valley,
would rest upon his breast.! Oh, if he would rouse up for
one moment-- one moment-- that she might whisper to'him
of the'love which she had borne him; that he might know the
fullness of that love -that she might tell him all, - so that
he could take in the fullness of her suffering also.
It was past noon when Sister Therese looked in, and asked
if there was aught she could do; and Inez whispered,-
"I will watch beside him -he is a friend, -you know-"
She could say no more, for her tears choked out her voice. It
needed not Anita's word of explanation in the morning, nor
Inez's timid effort now, to tell the gentle "Sister "how things
were; and as she turned away, she glanced with pitying tender-
ness into the girl's grief-stricken face, and then, as if moved
by a sudden impulse, stole'to her side again,and pressing her
to her heart, whispered,
" My child, God help you ! " and then went out.
Was he breathing more freely now?  That breath seemed
longer and fuller. 'Inez leant over to distinguish if possible


CROWN JEWELS.             X87

the first spark of returning consciousness or life. As she
bent her face quite close to his, there was a slight motion of
the hand; the eyes opened, and looked up to. hers; strangely
and wonderingly at first, and then a great wave of joy rolling
up from the happiness and love that flooded his soul, for a mo-
ment obscured the light that shone in those windows.
"Inez, - you here ?  By my side, -my own - now ! Oh!
thank God for this hour ! thank God that He has sent you to
me here. I knew it all along.; I knew that there should be some-
reward even in this life to this poor heart for all its sacrifice
and self-denial; and this is it ! It has come !"
He caught her hands in both of his, and drew her towards
him, closer, closer -till she heard again those precious words
that he seemed to love, to whisper, -" Mine own, now mine
own!"
Faintly and weakly they came; but strong enough they were,
to lift up the flood-gates in the woman's heart, and let loose the
deep waters pent-up there.so long. And though she had no
power to give.him answer, the tear-drops that fell upon his
breast thick and fast were sweeter far, because a surer messenger
of the love he believed in, than a thousand crowding words.
"Look up, Inez, and let me see your face ; speak to me, that
I may hear your voice; aye, the old words that have rung a
ceaseless chant in my heart since we have been parted, -' Victor
Isolani, may God bless you!' Speak to me now, Inez; you
know what I want to hear, - that it is the love of the man, not
purely the love of God, that has brought you here, and will keep
you with me to the end. When I was strong, and there was
power in this poor arm, -power in the heart to suffer and to
endure -then it was right, perhaps; I did not question it,
though the vow that stood between us has been hung about
with the mystery that veils Giulian's death,--then, it was right
that you should say me, 'nay;' but now, it is a weak, dying
man, done with all things in earth-life save this earth-lorve that
pleads, as he plead at Giulian's. grave, for the .sound of your
voice, lovingly calling his name!"
"Victor, Victor Isolani," she cried, as she bent her head by
his side, "'God only knows how I\ love thee! look into the
unworthy heart -read there what you will! Oh heart! " she
murmured, "confess all -all to him now!"
Aye, the time for confession has come; let her speak now,
for, soon her voice cannot reach him, and all her wailing
and crying against~ the broad blue heaven will not rise higher

or nearer to him than the "song of the lark in her singing"
Let her speak now. She will keep back from him nothing in
this last sacred hour. He shall know that even while Giulian's
betrothed; her heart had' wandered to him; shall know that
she had striven with that love, as with an evil spirit ; that she
).ad fasted, had wept, had prayed over it; and though perhaps
not conquering altogether, God had given her strength to do her
duty. And he shall know that when Giulian's death, coming
simply as death, would have left her free, coming as "murder"
on her account, by a brother's hand,.it had bound her soul in a
penance that naught but death could end. He shall know;
why, loving him better than all else save duty, she had put
him back, - put her own heart, her own happiness, in abey-
ance, because that stern Druidical Guide had bidden her. Yes,
she would tell him all; and perhaps he would bear the record
with him to that other land, and would lay it' at the Father's
feet, and for the sake of the Saviour, whose seal she trusted it
bore, it would mayhap be held sufficient to blot out the mortal
sin set to her account in that Great Book wherein all human
names are written.
Tremblingly and softly at first she began; but forgetting her-.
self as she looked into his face; her voice grew stronger, and
she went on, unto the end. Victor Isolani listened in silence ;
and when she finished, and he understood all that had stood
between them,-understood that it was the blood-stained
hand of a wicked brother, that lifted itself between the sister
and happiness -when he knew fully all, his soul swelled with
a devotion to her so unmixed with earthliness, that it was
worthy to be laid at the shrine of a Sainted Madonna.
" Inez," he said solemnly, as if oppressed and almost silenced
by the thoughts that followed her voice. "I am not worthy,
save through suffering like unto your own, to touch the hem of
your garment. Already the diamonds that shall shine in
your heavenly crown are burnished and glittering; and among
those that shine brighest there, oh God! place the saving of
Victor Isolani's soul! Saved, saved - through love ! It was
your hand, Inez, that, while denying' the gift for which I
plead, pointed me heavenward ; showed me the path which you
have trod, and bade me look from the bleeding Christ on the
cross, to the sparkling diadem  in heaven. Inez, the hand
that dealt me these blows, there on the Plaza, in the midnight
'hour -though the' hand of the enemy, I trust did me good
service; it unlocked the prison-door; and when the soul goes

386              FROWN, JEtiVELS.


CR0 WN JEWELS.

forth, it shall be, to. enter as a royal monarch, crowned, the
Kingdom   above. And the Emperor - God grant that he
escaped! I strove to give them time. I shall not see his face
again; but go to him if you can, Inez; tell him from me, from
Victor Isolani9 that though our cause is lost, though friends
betray here,"- for, Inez in her speaking, had told him of Lopez's
treachery,  "tell him, in life or in death, to strive for that
imperishable crown, whose diamonds shall not fall away."
]Re was exhausted with much speaking, and lay there now in
silence, in that breathless, feeling silence that concentrates
years past and years to come, sometimes, ii one moment.
The day was well-nigh spent; but Inez had taken no note of
time. No other day in all her life seemed like this. She had
forgotten the Empire, forgotten the Emperor almost, except
when the offi er had brought him to mind.. Though at noon-
time there had been shouting and crying without, when the
Emperor came into the 'city a prisoner, it all passed un-
heeded to her. On the marrow the whole weight would come
upon her. She only listened now to the voice of the one
beside her, when he _spoke again, telling her of the midnight
waking, of that scene upon the Plaza, all confusion, when he
strove to give the Emperor time to escape; and before he could
follow he was on the pavement, left by, the enemy as dead.
Whose Samaritan hand had brought him here he knew not;
for when he knew aught again, she was with him. "My
last day is gone !" he exclaimed as the last golden ray faded
softly from the casement ; " where shall I be at the dawn'?"
"Sleep now," whispered Inez, "and believe -that all shall
be well."
"All shall be well!  Soul! soul,! " he murmured,-
"'Death comes to set thee free,
Oh meet him cheerily
As thy true friend! '"
He closed his eyes, and there was quiet in the little cell. Is
he sleeping?  Aye, see the smile that plays about the full lips,
and rests upon the noble face ! But now, only a moment
has. gone by, and the smile too is gone. He throws up his
arms restlessly, and mutters incoherently. Inez bent her ear
close to.his face, and she caught the half-formed sentence, " Your
brother did it ! your brother, Inez ?"  And she knew that his
mind dwelt on that bold, bare truth that had stamped itself so
deeply on her life and his. His mind wanders. He hears agaii

the midnight din, and cries out, "My God ! we are betrayed;
the enemy is upon us ! Save the Emperor ! save the Emperor !"
The purple lips are quiet, and then they whisper softly, "The
Tyrol ! Inez, my home - the Tyrol! "
And so with Inez, listening and weeping, an hour goes by,
and more. The day is quite dead, and the moonbeams steal in
through the diamonc panes softly and tenderly, and rest quietly
on the stone floor, as though, in sympathy with the grief-stricken
watcher, they had given up the- evening's glee. And they
know too, perhaps, that they stand in another presence; know
that Death has grown weary of waiting without, and stands
now, grim and gaunt, on the other side of the couch.
He has touched him with his bony hand, chilly and damp.
He wakens; and forgetting himself, starts up suddenly.
"Where am I? What is this darkness ? Ah ! " with a
groan of pain that brings back the truth, "this - is the Valley
and the Shadow! " and he fell back heavily upon the pillow. p
"Inez, are you here?" he said, reaching out for her hand. I
cannot see you; come nearer; put your face close to mine. I
am going, Inez, going now; the end has come! Bury this
poor body here at Querataro, where you can sometimes place a
flower above it ; no atter, if that vacant place at the old vault
at the Tyrol is never filled: we are but dust. If I could but
see your face again ! The sun has gone, and why do the moon-
beams delay their coming so long ! No, no ! the moonbeams
have come already, have they not ? and Death stands between
us. Here, --put your hand on my heart --poor muffled drum,
tired out, it beats softly and slow-too slow to keep pace with
the footsteps of Time that is leaving it behind."
He placed his arms about her now; as she leant over him, he
drew her face to his, and their lips met in a kiss that he should
bear with him into eternity.
" Mine - mine," he whispered brokenly, "up there ! "
"Up there ! " was echoed softly.
The white-winged Angel has descended, and hovers above
them. She waves her golden 'sceptre, and the weary eyelids
close -- close to earth-scenes of toil and strife, close to suffer-
ing and sorrow, and waken to the glories of -the Eternal King-
dom. Ah! Spectre gaunt and grim, take the heap of dust, the
poor cold body ; Victor Isolani hath done with it forever; his
soul goes with the Angel to put on that garment of incorrup..
tion immortal in the skies.

aRO *lVr JEWELS.

388

3g9


CR0 WY JEWELS             201

390             CROWN JEWELS.

All is quiet. His lips do not move now. Inez places her
hand upon his heart;- - does it beat ?
One cry of grief, - her arms are about him, her lips are
pressed to his, all in vain, in vain,!.
"Tired he sleeps, and life's poor play is o'er."
CHAPTER XLVI.
HE world was holding high carnival at Paris. The
Emperor of the' French had not yielded himself so
I .dthecre f d.
much, during the years just passed, to the cares o d
lomacy and State that he had forgotten to provide his
restless people with something to absorb their minds, and at the
same time to establish himself as theChief Royal Patron of
Art, Science, and Industry. After another fashion, he had fol-
loWed the example of his illustrious Bonaparte ancestor. He
had gilded the dome of the " Hotel- des Invalides for the peo-
ple to look at, and at the same time builded =in Arc de
Triornphe" for himself.
Napoleon III. had sent abroad to all the world, to every
nation, " Greeting," and had bid them come to Paris with what-
ever works of art they could' boast ; with whatever triumphs
in any industrial department of mechanics, they had achieved,
and enter the lists-for the prize. The rude Olympic festivals
of the ancient Greeks were to be revived, and to be given a
loftier, higher tone., "The Exposition Imperial" of 1867 was
to eclipse all others that had preceded it; was to be the grand
event of the decade of years stretching between 60 and 70.
For months before the first of May, which was to be the grand
opening day of the Exposition, the Field of Mars resounded with
life and activity. Every nation h d responded to the Royal in-
vitation, and had sent workmen and artists to execute their
part of the Tower of Babel, which was to be built at Paris.
The " Palais de l'industrie," as the temple in which the Exhibi-
tion was to be held, was called, was begun. The part of the
plan which was to be given to each nation, was. apportioned tt
were seen the Rue d'Autricho tecRue de Belgique, Rue deo

Russe, etc., etc., crossing each other within the edifice, and or-
namented with pillars, arches, and embellishnients after the
style of architecture of -each country ; while here and there
immense fountains were placed, dividing the different compart-
ments. The Champ de Mars was changed, as if by the magic
of Aladdin's Lamp.
Champ de Mars /  The name calls up the changes that have
passed over that Park ! The mind runs back to the time
when " Louis, the Well Beloved," established there, the splen-
did Ecole Militaire, where five hundred indigent young men
were educated at the public expense ; and he hoped to make it
the Alma Mater of French marshals, where patriotism and
courage should alike be nurtured: but after Louis' day the
Ecole declined, and the beautiful- situation became simply' a
mancouvring field for the Parisian soldiery, and received its
name, Champ de Mars. In later years, during the mad rev-
olution of 1789, when the streets of Paris flowed with the blood
of innocent citizens, it was from this slope that the Parisian
commanders watched the scenes. Again, when the storm lulled
for a while, and the new Constitution was to be -signed by the
hapless King, it was here that, with wild enthusiasm at the
thought of their triumph, the meniand women rushed to aid in
the building of the grand Amphitheatre that was -to be the
place of the solemn ceremony of the King, the members of the
Assembly, and LaFayette, in behalf of the National Guards
taking oath. The confederation was formed; but. it did not save
Louis the Sixteenth from the' scaffold. , Another year, and
the same voices that cried to them on that day, " Long live the
King ! Long live Queen Marie Antoinette ! " hooted and
hissed at the "Austrian Woman !"" at "Louis Capet ! "as they
passed to their bloody death.
The Champ de Mars -is eloquent, with history, -not alto-
gether to France's credit; but that is past, and set long ago to
the national account. Now, in the spring-time of '67, no one
thinks of thesethings ; and the lively French men and women
who come out to see the. progress of the Palace from day to
day, forget that Fnce ever had ,a Revolution; forget, too,
perhaps, that she e  r had. so great a ruler before as Napoleon
The first of May, --the great opening day, -came. The
Palace was ready; and the works of art of each nation were
displayed in their own compartment. The judges had been
appointed by the Emperor ; and the visitors from all parts of


CR0 WV JEWELS.              393

the world crowded Paris. But a dash had come, which damped,
perhaps for three -days, - possibly longer, - the anticipated.
pleasure. It came through the American telegram, that the
Empire of Mexico had fallen; that the Emperor Maximilian,
whose name they had heard so oft in these later years, had
been sold by one. of his own generals to the Liberal army
at Querataro; and that he was there now a prisoner, await-
ing whatever fate they might decree.
But this was not enough, however unfortunate and mal cpro-
pos, to interrupt the round of Paris pleasures in which all
Europe participated. The Royal Heads would satisfy their
hearts, and Napoleon would satisfy his conscience bj'sending a
protest to Juarez in Mexico, by offering a ransom sufficient to
buy the whole of Mexico-; by pledges guaranteed without limit
for the future, if the Emperor Maximilian be'released: this
done, "let the dance go on! "
The Czar of, Russia left the domes of St. Petersburg in the
distance, and journeyed over his frozen steppes to behold the
modern temple that vied with Solomon's, and in which his na-
tion held a niche. The Sultan of Turkey, too, came, to compare
the splendors of Paris with the mosques and minarets of his
own Byzantine City. The young Prince of Wales came up for
England ; and the beauty and the chivalry of all the Continent
was gathered there.
Right royally the Emperor of France received and enter-
tained his guests. There were yet lacking the King of Bel-
gium and the Emperor of Austria, to fill up the royal circle:
but they were to come later, when the summer deepened ; and
perhaps the Emperor of Mexico would come with them,
again only Archduke of Austria.
" Joy was unconfined." Pride reigned in the heart of each
monarch, as they went from room to room, in the Palace ; for
as they passed dn they could see, that if they had failed in this
invention, they had triumphed in that production. Each
would bear a prize away. Never had Paris been gayer. Never
had the Champ Elysses, the Bois de Boulogne, and the Boule-
vards, seen a greater throng; never had the hearts of the people,
always touched through pride and the senses, beat more warmly
towards their Emperor, who had prepared for them this great,
glorious diversion, -this fete "pour passer le temps," than
at this period.
But another messenger comes, and bids them stop and listen:
" The Emperor Maximilian has beentried by court-martial

at Querataro, and found worthy of death. Sentenced to be
shot until dead, on the 19 h of June."
"Helas IMalheureuse /" "Send, oh ! our Emperor ! send
another protest, a petition, a memorial-anything that will
save his life."  It is done: the petition bearing a score of Royal
names is sent; and again, at Paris, "Pleasure reigns!"
.                     .    .    .         0
" The Convent of the Capuchinas, in Querataro, is an an-
cient, spacious building, all over whic the hand of Time has
drawn its dingy strokes; and as you  e at its exterior, ob-
serving its dimensions, its domes, its statuary and carvings,
you are reminded that the pile of silver and gold that reared
this massive temple, could be enclosed in no small compass.
Year. after year, mite after mite was contributed by rich and
poor, to raise its lofty dome toward the heavens, beneath
which the ever-faithful daily gathered to offer up, on bended
knee, thanks to their Maker, for the many blessings they had re-
ceived. Those who gave their mite, those who laid stone upon
stone upward -upward rising to the sky,. little thought that
they were walling in their descendants, for sustaining political
opinions honestly formed and conscientiously advocated. * They
never dreamed that they were erecting a warrior's abode, a de-
pository for, bristling bayonets, polished swords, powder and
balls, where the bugle, the fife, and the drum were to sum-
mon the inmates to service;-where the armed sentinel paces to
and fro with a measured tread. These workmen reared that
costly structure for a house of peace, where the multitude,
armed with the word of God only, were to be taught, "Ven-
gence is mine, saith Lord."
.But, as the sunlight of the dying afternoon in June fell upon
it, the stillness was broken-by the ceaseless tramp of the armed
sentinel, who trod back and forth, in front of the huge portal,
ever watchful of -those who now and then came in, and passed
out.
Look up at the high-towering, massive pile ! Within those
walls is one who does not go out nor come in at his own
bidding;- one, proud, noble, just and free; upon whose name
they have set the seal of death, and who, they say--those mur-
derers of Liberty- shall come- out no more, save to go to that
death.
It was but too true : the telegram that startled Europe, with
the announcement of the Emperor Maximilian's trial and sen-
tence, and coming execution, was not merely toying with
17*

392             O'ROWN JEWELS.


CROWN JEWELS.             95

894            CROWN JEWELS.

their fears; the Emperor Maximilian had indeed been tried,
before a mock court of justice, before a court-martial of the
generals of Escobedo's appointing, and had been condemned,
as he had been in their hearts, from the day of his capture,
to be shot, as a usurper of the rights of the Mexican people.
Everything, all arrangements of the trial had been left to Gen.
eral Escobedo, whose declared motto had long been known,
"Death to foreigners!" And so the Emperor of Mexico was
condemned to die. The protest of the crowned heads of Europe
only provoked a smile of contempt from the Indian warrior.
What, if the Queen of England- said, that it was- "a near
and dear relative for whom England plead "?  So much the
more triumph for Mexico. What if the Emperor of Austria
prayed for the life of a brother well beloved ?, What, if he
assured them, the Archduke Maximilian would leave Mexico
forever -would be restored to all his former rights in Austria?
No, no ! Austria and her Archduke must be taught a lesson.
Mexico must vindicate her rights ; must triumph completely ;
must be satisfied' this could alone be done, by the shedding of
the Emperor Maximilian's blood.
And so time went on, and the 14th of June had arrived.
In a small room in the second story of the old Convent, with
only a door opening into the corridor that overlooked the
court-yard, and one window looking into this corridor, sat
the Emperor Maximilian; not alone, for the officers of his
staff, who were confined in the same prison, were permitted to
visit. him; and this afternoon Prince Salm-Salm sat by the
little pine table in the centre, which, saving an iron bed-
stead and a few chairs, was the only article of furniture in the
room. Without, on the corridor, walk'.g backward and for-
ward before the window, and never pass g it without turning
his eyes in upon the prisoners, was the guard, with his shining
bayonet always ready. Across the court, on a corridor opposite,
at the head of the stairs which led up, another guard kept
up his pace likewise; so there, under those two watchful eyes,
wakeful as the dragon that. guarded the fabled fruit in the gar-
den of old, sat the Emperor and his officer. A single word in
their own loved German was forbidden, iest some interchange of
thought might pass that the rude Mexican soldier might lose;
and so, each preferring that eye-language, which ofttimes speaks
more fully, mope eloquently than words, they sat in silence,
each intently regarding the other.
The Emperor leant his arm upon the table, resting his head

upon the hand that was raised. But little changed since we
saw him last upon the Plaza, within the city, saving a calm,
quiet look, that perhaps the hopeless always wear, had taken the
place of that burning enthusiasm, that had then lit .up his eyes.
He sat there looking calmly at Prince Salm-Salm, looking and
thinking, -thinking of the Prince's life. A scion of one of the
noblest German houses, young, brave, and daring, he had, come
to the United States some years since ; had found there " God's
best gift "to man; and later, had come with that wife to the Mex-
ican Court. He had followed him in every-movement ; had stood
by his side in the storm of battle at Querataro, had yielded him-
self a prisoner with him, and was now here by his side;
while his wife, stronger, truer than ever, as women are wont
to be in the trial hours of life, had gone to throw herself at
Juarez' feet, to bese  te President for pardon, -for respite
- for delay-  anyl.t1t would keep the Emperor in life;
and this afternoon her return was expected. Maximilian did
not grow impatient for her coming, for he knew that life now
was not for him: he only went on thinking and dreaming, -
thinking of his wife ; what she. had done for him, what she had
been to him; and he turned aside his face from the Prince, and,
as he brushed away a tear, thanked God that the full weight of
this blow would not come upon her at once. And. then he
thought of the Prince again, as he turned his face towards him.
Would they kill him too? would they honor him too with a
mock trial and a Mexican grave?  As yet the "Powers that
be" had not considered him'; God grant they might spare him!
And there was Court Khevenihuiller shut up with the brave
Hussars in Mexico City, besieged by a Liberal force sent there,
to take the capital; what would be his fate? Ah ! if he had but
heeded when he had warned him; he saw now all the train of
duplicity of the traitor heart; saw how he had led him on to
give him his confidence ; had deceived him, even when he had
already sold him to the enemy; saw it all, yet did not curse
him; in his noble heart there was but one thought, "Let him
be forgiven."  And Isolani! dead ! In life they had been to-
gether, and in death they would not be separated. Isolani had
given his life to save him! Brave, noble spirit ! he was beyond
all recompense of earth-love now; doubtless 'in heaven he had
received his reward. While these thoughts passed in and out
through the -Emperor's mind, his companion, the Prince, was
thinking too; but he saw above' that unnloved figure a presence
of light hovering ?road lhim, and upon~ her heavenly brow


CRO W2 JEWELS            391

crowned with radiant. stars, he marked the shining word'
"Hope ! "  And he did hope; -hoped that his Sovereign and
himself would soon quit these gloomy walls - quit this land of
terror, and tread again their native shores; - hoped, through
faith in his wife, that her mission would not fail ; that the
Republican President at San Luis Potosi would grant pardon
to all ; would not lose the opportunity of showing himself a
great man. But -if- she should fail!
There was desperation, despair, in the thought: he must drive
it away; and, so suddenly, that he startled the Emperor, he
exclaimed in Spanish, -
" La Senora tarries ! "
"No, Prince," said Maximilian, calmly; "it is you who are
impatient. This is not a place to hasten the march of time.
They play only the dead march to enliywus here," he added,
with an attempt at pleasantry.
" Ahi! we shall leave their solemn marches before long; how
welcome will be our Ranz de J7che in the Tyrol, or Strauss in
Vienna ! "
The sentinel, attracted by the sound of their voices, had come
to the window and stopped for a moment, then turned his face
toward the court, and placed himself so as to lose nothing of the
conversation within. As the Prince's last words fell on his ear
he turned quickly and gave him a searching glance, that said so
plainly that the Prince answered it, "Do they think to escape ?"
" Juarez must listen to the Princess; and then Escobedo
cannot keep us ; Austria will make terms with Mexico, if we
can only gain a week, until her ambassador may arrive."
*     Maximilian quitted his seat, that he might not damp the
Prince's hopeful spirit, and walked to and fro the length of the
apartment. His.footsteps sounded out upon the brick floor
and, annoyed by the continued presence of the guard, who still
remained at the window, the two lapsed into silence again.
Prince Salm-Salm, taking up the pen, and pulling the writing
material which lay upon the table nearer to him, commenced to
write, while the Emperor kept up his promenade.
It was growing quite late ; the sunlight had gone, and the
dusk was gathering in the court-yard. There were no sounds
to be heard save the barking of a dog in the street below, and
the echo of the soldiers' voices.- Only a few moments, and
there is a voice in the court-yard, and footsteps are heard com-
ing along the corridor. .Prince Salin threw down his pen and

reached the window just in time to see that it was his wife com-
ing towards their door.
Unable to control himself, in an agony of hope and fear,
which in a moment would be decided, he turned quickly from
the window, and exclaiming, "She has come at last !" threw him-
self in the chair he had vacated, afraid to hear the tidings she
had brought.
The key was turned, the door was thrown open, and the
guard announced with mock ceremony, -.
"La Seora !"
The door was shut again, and for a moment the Princess
Salm stood quite still, just within, her whole form trembling
with agitation.
The Emperor waited for the Prince to greet his wife. Prince
Salm-Salm lifted his head from his hands; he looked up into
her face. He read the answer there,-"'Despair ! there is no
hope!"
It needed not that she should place her hand in his ; that
she should look hopelessly towards the Emperor, and then sink
upon his breast, whispering, "Nothing -nothing ! I have done
nothing! "
The Emperor had drawn near, and as she leaned her head
upon her husband's shoulder, exhausted with grief and fatigue,
he laid his hand upon it, and in those same quiet tones, not
one shadow less steady, he said, "Senora, may God bless you,
and your husband, for you have both done all you can! Let
the issue come; we can meet it ! "
CHAPTER XLVII.
AVE the Emperor ! save the Emperor ! "
-   Only the unconscious murmurings of a dying man ;
but when Victor Isolani had been coffined, with the
- sword, that he had loved so well placed by his side --
when he had rested in the solemn silence of the vaulted con-
vent chapel, while the dark-robed "Sisters" and the deep-voiced
priest chanted sacred masses for the repose of his soul,-when
they, with another dark-robed mourner, whose grief was too
deep for tears, whose sorrow. was too heavy for words, had laid

396 '            DROWN JEWELS.


39$             ORO0WN JEWELS.

him in a vacant niche in the vault, gloomy, and damp, of the Con.
vent, and had shut out from him forever the light of day; when
they had done all this, and Inez had turned away to follow Anita
homeward, with a desolation of heart more dreary than all the
desolation.she had known in the years past;- when she reached
the "quiet home, and sat down in her own chamber to think,
and brought home to herself the reality of the woe that had
come, -not to herself alone, but to her poor country, - those
words, "Save the Emperor ! ".of all the precious words that he
had spoken, seemed to'stamp themselves upon her mind; seemed
to stand out from the rest, as if they had power to command
her soul.
But as yet, the fate- of the Emperor had not been decided,
and surely there was no evil in store for him. He would go
to the Empress, and would leave Mexico to work out her own
wretched destiny. There was nothing for Inez to do at present,
save to see the Emperor, if that were permitted by those who
held. him captive. She must bear to him the last message
of his faithful friend.
Day after day passed, and still Inez dreaded to break the
sacred quiet which was so soothing to her wounded heart. If
she saw the Emperor before he left for Europe, that would be
enough.S
Unhappily, the fate of theEmperor Maximilian was not left to
the judgment of his faithful subjects; was not left to those who
loved the Empire and its ruler. The question of life or death
remained with General Escobedo, and to hope for clemency, nay,
for justice, from him, in this matter, was vain indeed; and
yet, though each heart was filled with fear, and doubt, and trem-
bling, though they knew the character of the military court
that sat in judgment, and before which the Emperor- Maximilian
and Ge erals Miramon and Meija were trying, they were not
altogether prepared for the end when it came, -could not take
in and believe that their Emperor and the two generals were
to be shot like criminals, within their hearing, in four days.
The fatal day was but a few sunsrising off. Scarcely had,
the first glimmering of -the dawn stolen over the hills, when-
Jnez Gonzales left,. her pillow. Only the day before had the
Emperor's death-fiat gone forth; and when the first shock of
grief and indignation had passed, Inez had felt her woman's
soul grow strong within her. Surely, if she could do aught to
save hini, the time had come now; and there was not an hour
to be lost. The night was long and dreary enough to Inez,

who, sometimes. treading the length of her. little apartment,
sometimes throwing herself across her couch, seeking to collect
her thoughts, and shape the thousand fanciful ideas that flitted
through her brain into something practicable, wore out the
midnight hours. Again and again she asked herself, what
could she do -she, a woman? What power had she to save
the Emperor ? If they would only take her poor useless life
instead, and let him live ; let him who ,was so strong to do
good, to bless mankind, let him live, and let her die ! She
could do that, if it were possible ! But as often as she clasped
her hands across her brow, -as often as she sank in weakness
upon her couch, those spirit-tones roused her again, "Save the
Emperor !.save the Emperor ! "
And when the gray dawn stole into her chamber, she rose up
strong and brave; for the inspiration that filled, in days long gone,
the soul of Joan of Orleans, that thrilled with noble patriotism
and heroic devotion the maid of Saragossa, had breathed its
spirit into her soul too; had called to her, "Rouse thee, Inez
Gonzales ! rouse thee 1 "
Inez had obeyed ; and her heart answered, t1lat she would do
something -what she could, for the Emperor who had given
-his all for Mexico.
She knew that although Anita's heart might be with her in
all she did, yet Anita had scarcely strength enough to support -
her in any plan she undertook, where presence of mind and
delicate tact was necessary ; and so she resolved that Anita
should be her confidante, but Sister Th6rese at the Convent, a
woman of quick perception, mature but tender judgment, her
aid, in all she did.
The sun had scarcely finished an hour. of his daily course,
when Inez bid Anita " adieu," and, attended by Pedro, started
for the city.. She had told Anitaher purpose and determination,
and to her oft-repeated question, "But what can you do, Inez? "
gave the same answer that she had given to her own heart;
"Don'task me now, Aiita; I must do something; the Emperor
must be saved, and why should not I help to save him?  Don't
ask me, Aiiita, how; for I scarcely know   myself.  Only
think, that I am with -Sister Therese; she will be with me in
whatever I may do."    And with this Anita was satisfied;
though, as Inez turned away, she shook her head mournfully,
and sighed,
" Ah, Inez! it will all be useless! you cannot save him from
Escobedo!"

1 RO XN J. WELS.


400             CROWNtELS                         JEWELS.

It was but a short walk to the city, and the Convent was not
far within. The air was fresh and cool, and Inez hurried over,
the green plain so fast, that the faithful old Pedro, whose youth
had departed long-ago, could scarcely keep pace with her. In
vain he tried to attract the attention of his young mistress to
the beauty of the far-away hills, or to the tiny daisies they trod
down at every footprint, things that formerly, she had never
passed without heeding; this morning, there was but one thing
in Inez's mind, and so she hurried on faster each time that
Pedro spoke.
At last they reached the convent gates; and going in as the
porter, who recognized Inez and always gave her ready admit.-
tance, threw them open, entered the court-yard, where Pedro,
quite exhausted, sank down under the shade of one of the small
evergreens growing there, and between panting and puffing, as
his young mistress passed up the stairs that led to the first cor-
ridor, unburdened his heart in a mournful soliloquy.
" Ah, Senorita Inez! " with a shake of the head and a long.
breath; "she is not what she used be ! she never chats so light
and free with old Pedro now! -It's nothing now but the Sisters
and mass; she'had as well be a Sister herself at once, with her
ghost look and her solemn eyes.. Ah ! that visit to the grand
city, it never did her any good! But poor dear Senor Giulian's
death was enough to cut her down." And Pedro seemed to
reproach himself for entertaining an impatient thought, at
aught that she did. With another shake of the head, he con-
tinued his confidential talk with himself.
"But everything's changed, - changed,  and changing, in
this awful country, all the time. More than twenty years ago I
,came from Spain with the senorita's father; and it's been war,
-war, -war,-ever since I've been here. Mexicans can't stay
satisfied ; I don't believe they ever could live in peace, not even
in Heaven, because they can't fight and kill each other there !
See how this beautiful young Prince left his own home and
caine away over here, just to do them good and fix some laws
for them ; and his young wife, as they say is so, beautiful, too,
went crazy for them, - they are going to thank him by shooting
him, like he had done them some gre4t harm ! Thank.God ! I
am not one of 'em, for their time's got to come ! "
With this fervent ejaculation, while drawing the worn-sleeve
of his surtout across his eyes, Pedro picked himself up, and
started homeward,. remembering that he was to return for Ineza
in the afternoon. -

In the meantime, Inez had passed along the corridor and
turned into one of the narrow halls opening into it, and soon
stood at the door of Sister Therese's little apartment. Her low
knock was answered by the Sister herself, who welcomed her
with a smile and a kiss.
An hour later, and two nuns, in the dress of their order, went
out together through the convent gate. One bore in her hand
a covered basket, and the other carried a small prayer-book in
the folds of her long veil. They went-up the Calle di  , at
the end of which stood the Liberal sentinel. Passing him, they
kept on until they reached the street leading towards the Grand
Plaza. As they reached the Plaza, they stopped a moment to
ask of the sentinel who trod the beat nearest them there, where
they could find the Fiscal, and if he was the officer to grant a
permit to visit-the prisoners in the Convent of the Capuchinas.
A tinge of displeasure seemed to flush the man's cheek, but he
answered, with that respect which the garb of the Sister of
Mercy ever commands, that the Fiscal's office was in the Hotel
across the Plaza, and perhaps they could get a permit from him,
" though it's not likely he lets many go there visiting now. He
may let you go, though," he added, as they passed on.
The Plaza is but little changed since we saw it a few months
since. The solemn figade of the Cathedral looms up on bne side;
across, the public Hotel, with its huge court-yard; and on
either side, the rows of shops make up the square; in the centre
the green plats with the smooth walks, and the rows of orange-
trees. One difference, one change is marked - the soldiers that
lounge about the shops, or under the trees, wear the Liberal
uniform instead of the Imperial.
The Sisters, whom we follow, have reached the gates of the
Hotel ;_-a word in Spanish with tle guard there, and theygo in
as he opens the gate.
An hour passes, and they come out again, and leaving the,
Plaza, turn into the street leading.towards the Convent of the
Capuchinas.
They go in silence for some time, and at last see the gray
walls before them. At the court-yard gate they stop, for two
sentinels, armed with musket and bayonet, standing on either
side, cry out, "Quien viva?"  The taller of the nuns, an-
swers, softly, "Amigo," and passing into the court-yard, they
are niet by a sentinel, who conducts them up the steps that
lead to the corridor, and into the office of the 'captain of the
guard:

DROWN JEyFEE) B.             401


402          CRWJEWROWN JEWEL.

The Sister whom we take for many years the older of the
two, presents a slip of paper to the officer mentioned,- a dark,
swarthy Mexican, seated behind a little table, and attended by
two armed corporals; He reads their passport, and with a
gruff call of " Cabo ! " (corporal), summons a soldier in wait-
ing from without, and directs him to show the visitors to the
room of the Archduke Maximilian.
Quickly and lightly the two followed the sentinel, whose
heavy boots sounded along the corridor, as he led the way to-
wards a door some distance in advance, and before which was
the same grim token of durance, - the watching dragon's eye
of the guard.
The Sisters do not look up as the sentinels exchange the
password; but, as the one on guard steps forward to open the
door which bars out the blessed Liberty from the Emperor of
Mexico, the deep, dark, piercing eyes of the older Sister
are bent upon him, with an intense gaze of scrutiny, and as they
pass the soldier, going in, a shining coin falls at the man's feet.
Sister Therese turned just in time to see him stoop to pick it
up, and as he closed the door she noted a cunning twinkle in
his eye ; and she knew that the golden dollars that had placed
the Emperor Maximilian within those massive walls, might
mould a key to let him out.
Time keeps on ; and he has gone forward another hour be-
fore the Sisters finish their visit. The guard, an Italian, from
his face, had accepted Sister Therese's bribe, and had extended
his walk far enough from the Emperor's window, that he might
only now and then catch a word, as he passed to and fro.
"What purpose," thought he, "could lie hidden beneath the
sable, folds of a- Sister's robe, save the good intent of spiritual
consolation? "  And so the Italian, felt that if they had stolen
a word or two that he had not heard, from the Emperor, it
was no harm to the cause of the Republic. Through the court-
gate, out into the silent square again, the Sisters pass. Hur-
riedly and silently they walk on, until the guard at the gate is
left quite behind. There is no one in the street save them-
selves.
" Sister, Th6rese," said her companion, "what can be done ?
Since the failure of the Princess Salm, the Emperor seems hope-
less. He does not even seem to think it right, that he should
join in a plan of escape."
" Softly, Jnez," whispered Sister Th6rese, -laying her finger
upon. her lips. " My child, though our dear Emperor seems

II

hopeless, we must not be so; we must think and act quickly.
In the name of our dear Lord, who has said, 'when all forsake,
' He will take you up,' we must, as His instrument, save His
children, whenever we can. There is still a chance,--a thread
of hope, it may be, but, still a thread,  that we may save the
Emperor."
" Save him, Sister ! " said Inez, earnestly ; "but how? How
can he escape through that array of bayonets, and the triple
guard that surrounds him?1"
" My child, when you have studied human nature as long as
Sister Therese; when you. have moved through the world,
and seen, as one apart, and simply looking on, the different
phases of character among men, you will learn that, take them
' all in all,' there is an 'Open Sesame,' to their hearts. Some-
times we find an honorable exception; we find men whom
neither gold, nor silver, nor self-emolument can tempt ; but that
is not often the case here in Mexico. The guard at the gate,
there, from the firmness in his chin, and the calm, decided look
infhis eyes, could not be approached ; but the Italian who ad-
nutted us to the Emperor's room, -he is our hope."
" Alas ! Sister, a forlorn one, it seems! .And do you hope.
to win him with bribery?"
" Yes, Inez ! One traitor in a camp can undo an army ; and
that same guardsman can give the Emperor his life, with our
help. But we must work quickly and quietly. Only you and I
can do --nothing. Our Bishop, who says vespers with us this
evening, is a man to be trusted in these trying issues. We must
consult with him ;. and I think I know a wounded soldier in our
convent, who will be able, from his knowledge of the world, his
shrewdness, his tact, and his devotion to the Emperor, to serve us.
well. I can think of no other whom I would be willing to trust."
They had come to their own convent ; and as they entered
the court-yard, they found it quite deserted, save a soldier who
half-reclined, on one of the seats' beneath the branches of a
wild olive-tree. His eyes were half-closed, but as the Sisters;
came up, he raised himself.
"This is our friend," whispered Sister Th6rese, quickly, as
they approached him.
"Ah ! Captain, you are well enough to get about very nicely ;
we shall have you able to cross the water, soon."
It was an honest, open face that was turned towards them ;
and Inez, as little as she knew of physiognomy, would have
been willing to trust it."

CROWN JEWELS.              403


404             CROWN JEWELS.

" Ahma sxur/I" answered the man, with a sigh, Ic'est
sgal/ "it's the same thing to me now, here or in France -..
weariness and disappointment."
" But you must not despond so ; in a few months you will see
Normandy."
" Ah, yes ! my foot is but little trouble now, and I am almost
ready to throw away my crutch; but it is the heart, the mind,
Sister, that takes away the charm from life."
Inez had pushed back the little black hood from her face,
and the soldier, as she did so, turned his eyes towards her. He
bent a keen glance of scrutiny upon, her, and an exclamation
of surprise escaped- him.
" La Seuorita !" he said, 11I remember you well; you, too,
have loved the Emperor . and Empress, and you are here; too,
to see this bitter ending ! "
"My friend," said Inez, "your name.? your face and voice
are strange to me, and yet you seem to know me well! "
"I have seen theSenorita Gonzales too often with the Empress
at the capital, at our dress parades and reviews. I - have heard
her name from Captain Navarro and Count Khevenhaller too
often to forget it. Who am I, senorita?  An honest French-
man, who came to fight in good faith for the Mexican Empire
and her ruler. What am I ? .Alas! I am ashamed to say :
I was a Captain Joubert, in the Empress's Guard. Would to
God, that the whole regiment and its commander had perished..
in battle or had been sunk beneath the sea before this, stigma
rested on it! Go back to France! " he exclaimed, "and tell
them I. belonged to Lopez's regiment?  Never ! I cannot, I
cannot ! "
A hot flush overspread his face, and he half rose from the
little seat as if he were restless under some burden.
" But you," said Sister Th6rese, "my good friend, are not
responsible for the actions of yoiur officers. Though he was
false and treacherous, no one believed his men to have been so."
" Ah, no ! " said Joubert, earnestly ; "if they could uindo
this fearful work -if they could sav, our Emperor, by being
marched forth and shot in his stead, they would petition it to-
day. Dog of a traitor ! May he die the death of the wicked !
Gods ! if they would but take my life for the Emperor's ! "
" Do'you say this in truth, Captain Joubert ? " said Inez
quickly ; "would you do all in your power to save your Em-
peror ? would you risk - would you give your' life, if need be;
to accomplish that ?" .

The soldier looked, first into the calm, determined face of
Sister Th6rese, and then into the deep, earnest, eyes of the sen.
orita, and he seemed to read the soul of each, for he stretched
forth his hand to Inez, and answered her question in a low,
solemn voice.
"Try me ! try me ! and you will see. I know what you would
do; and God being my Helper, if it lies in the power of man,
he shall be saved."
"Then meet us, whispered Sister Th6rese, as she heard the
clanging of the gate, and the porter's cracked voice,  " meet
us after vespers in-our chapel."
-0 -     -      * 0 -       -         0 .  0
Captain Joubert waited behind a pillar in the vestibule of the
chapel, until the last strains of the " Gloria Patri" had died
away, and the saintly Sisters had passed out in solemn proces-
sion; and then he stole silently into the little sanctuary.
It was enveloped in a kind of gloom, for the sunlight had
well-nigh gone. , Already had the gilded piping of, the organ
in the little gallery fallen into the shadow, and there was
only a glimmer of light, soft and subdued, glancing athwart the
altar, and resting upon the burnished railing of the chancel.
The Bishop still knelt, in his embroidered cope and white
robe, before the altar ; and it seemed to Captain Joubert, as he
sat and watched his upturned face, that he still-heardthe mur-
mur of his last blessing, and felt the sanctity of his last prayer.
"Our Lord grant us his peace, and life everlasting."
The door at the side of the chancel, that led in from the
Convent, softly opened, and Sister Therese and Inez entered.
The noise of :their footfalls, slight as it was, roused the holy
Bishop from his. devotions, and he came forward, -down the
steps of the chancel, to where they stood, near Captain Joubert.
"Is this our friend, Sister, ? " he asked, as Captain Joubert
respectfully arose.
" This is he, Father," said Sister Therese, reverently -"Cap-
tain Joubert, who has been a faithful follower of his Emperor."
"Then he will serve him now, in his time of direst need,
more faithfully than ever before."
c"I will," said Captain' Joubert, solemnly, crossing himself,
so help me God."
" My children," said the Bishop, "it is growing late, and we
have but little time to hold, counsel together. Since the noon,
Sister Th6rese, Inez, and I have been together, thinking, plan-
ning; praying for light, for aid, for direction, from our Father,

CROWN JEyY.TLS.              405


406 'ROWN JEWELS.

that we might be enabled to preserve, in our beloved Emperor,
a great and shining light to our Church., Listen, my son, if you
love your Emperor, to our plan. I have never heard, your voice
before ; but Sister Therese believes in your honesty, and I am
therefore willing to trust you. If we can get the Emperor out
of the Convent, he is safe, for he can easily reach the sea-
coast ; or, if there was danger, could live for months undis-
covered, among the mountains. I have visited his Majesty
often since he has been in prison, and can communicate to
him the plan we have formed for his escape, by speaking to
him now and then, in English, which the guards cannot under-
stand. ' Sister Th6rese and Inez have to-day bade him be ready,
for his friends would not give him up while there was hope;
and though the Emperor himself seems to have accepted death,
we must save him, if it be possible. The Convent of the Capu-
chinas is built upon thb same plan as this. The corridor on the
second floor extends from the door of -the Emperor's room,
along the side, into 1a narrow hall, with a window at the back.
To reach this window from the Emperor's room, it is neces-
sary to pass the office of the captain of the guard, at the
door of which are stationed two corporals, whose beats extend,
one back to the window, the other along the corridor as far as
the sentinel on guard at the prisoners' door. The captain of
the guardthough always in his office,is not much to be dreaded,
as at night, one could easily pass his door without being seen,
were it not for the sentinels. There are three of these to
be passed, and as they cannot be gotten out of the way, it is
possible they may be bribed. His Majesty is a good sailor,
and once at the window it would be an easy descent with a
rope; a few steps will bring him to the convent wall. The same
rope thrown over, and a strong hand on the outside to draw
him up; a fleet horse waiting in the ravine which runs below
the Convent ; a few hours of darkness before the.dawn, - and
he is safe.
Inez had watched the Bishop's face as he spoke ; and now, in
listening to his words she seemed to see the Emperor already free;
seemed to see a ship outward bound, and seemed to hear a voice
of joy at Miramar, crying, " He has come again - he has come
again !" Tears of joy stole into hereyes at the thought; for
she had known this good Bishop too long; and where he hoped,
she believed, - where he trusted, she had faith.
But Captain Joubert sat silent and thoughtful; he had
listened with earnest attention to every word the Bishop

spoke, and now seemed weighing them in his mind. At last
he answered, and there was determination in his voice, and
his eyes glowed with hope as he looked up to the Bishop.
"'Iteshall be done !" he said firmly. " If there is a man in the
battalion at the Convent,--- from which the guard is selected, they
tell me, - whose ear can be tickled with the chinking of gold,
- and I warrant there is more than one,--two days hence, you
shall know it. But, Father, nothing but gold will do this work."
"And I can command from our Church, here, as many dol-
lars, for this holy purpose, as would stretch in a chain to the
capital.,'. Sister Th6rese tells us that a single coin to-day had its
weight with the guard on duty at the Emperor's door; if you
can find him out,-an Italian, I should judge from the descrip-
tion,-you may work through him."
For an hour longer, there was a whispered consultation in
the chapel; and when they came out, all +was arranged. The
Bishop was to have money sufficient to bribe the guard, and to
purchase the horses for the Emperor and Joubert, who, in case
his Majesty escaped, would accompany him to Europe.
Joubert was to go, on the morrow, to the encampment of
the battalion near the Convent, in the uniform of a Liberal
Soldier; and was to hang'about the prison, and work as best he
could for the next few days, communicating as often as possi-
ble with Sister Th6rese and Inez at the Convent who were to
have a (Liberal uniform  for the Emperor also in readiness.
Sister Th6rese and Inez were also to visit the Emperor, and
apprize him, as best they could, of what was going on, as they
could at any time obtain admittance, as Sisters of Mercy at the
Convent, and their visits would create no suspicion.
Inez would remain, as she often did, at the Convent for a
few days; and Pedro and his wife would care for Anita during
her absence.
Joubert lost no time in setting about his part of the plan.
Representing himself as a wounded soldier belonging to a
Liberal Regiment at Puebla, but sent to the hospital at Que-
rataro for the present, he hung about the battalion near the
Convent, where the Emperor was confined. The officers took
no notice of him, as lie only sat about the camp, with the men
helping them burnish their bayonets, and making himself pop
lar, by his ready wit and drollery, and his little anecdotes
connected with the various Liberal victories he had been en-
gaged in, during the last year's campaign. The men were
quite willing to share their rations and their blanket with him,

1

I

CROWN  JEWEL ,3.               40"


408             CR0 wv.JEWELS.

CRO WN JEWELS             409

for his company. There was no discipline that required his
return to the hospital, and he was a cheery comrade.
But Joubert kept his purpose well at heart ; and he had not
been at camp two days, as he said, before he had selected his
men. The one with whom he began was the Italian, Del.
Borgo, of whom Sister Therese had spoken.
'Twas the second night of his stay at the encampment, that
the Italian and himself were walking alone, near the wall of the
Convent, that Joubert made his opportunity.
An adventurer, with no character or reputation to lose, loving
naught save money, and willing to serve any party that would
pay him well, Del Borgo was not hard to win. Five Hundred
in gold, to be paid the evening before the escape, and five
hundred to be left for him at the Convent, in the city, the
day following, and he was ready to assist in the Emperor's
escape. He was to arrange to be on guard himself, three nights
hence, and he was to bribe the other two sentinels on the cor-
ridor, which he felt sure he could do. The Emperor would
have to risk the wakefulness of the captain of the guard.
At twelve, on the night of the 16th of June, Del" Borgo
would unlock the Emperor's door. He should pass unmo-
lested to the window, where he would find a rope secured so
that he could descend. The sentinel nearest the window
would unloose the rope, so that the Emperor could use it in
getting over the wall. The rest, Joubert must arrange. It
would not be discovered until near the dawn, when the guard
would be changed, that the Emperor had escaped; when, to
ward off suspicion, Del Borgo would give the alarm himself.
The Emperor and Joubert would have three hours the ad-
vantage, and that would insure them against a recapture.
CHAPTER XLVIII.
HE convent bell struck eleven.
"Eleven, and all well!" cried the guard at the
bate  "All .well!" echoed the sentinel in the court-
yard.   All well!" sounded along the corridor, from
the corporal.a
The Emperor turned upon his little iron bed; he rose, an

walked to the window. There, upon the corridor, sat his guard,
his head leaning against the iron railing, and his bayonet rest-
ing upon the floor beside him. It was Del Borgo, the Italian.
It was with a strange, confused emotion that Maximilian looked
upon him - knew that his destiny, his life or death, lay in this
man's hands.
Just before the sunset Sister Th6rese and Inez had paid him
their last visit, and in broken, interrupted snatches of English,
told him of -their strong hope and faith in his escape. "Pure,
noble, earnest women-may God preserve them! "prayed the
Emperor in his heart; "though he does not bless their labor
now, may He preserve them, and lift up their hands in His
cause, when I am gone."
For Inez, the Emperor had a tender, affectionate regard,
that had grown stronger in these last days, when he saw her,
not the grand, peerless beauty, full of pride, that he had known
at the palace, but stricken, not alone by national sorrow, but
bearing a heart-wound, -facing a desolation, -a future from
which the light died out when Victor Isolani's sun went down
bearing all with a Christian-submission that would not let her
sit in idle grief and tears, but bade her be "up and doing,"
while the day lasted. Maximilian remembered well when she
had come to him first, but a few 'days before, and throwing her-
self on her knees beside him, she had cried out, as she clasped
his hand in hers, and pressed it to her lips,
"My Emperor, you-shall be free! by the love of the dear Em-
press, by the love of those in death, by the love Mexico has
borne you, by the love of a poor maidenyour faithful subject,
--you shall be free!"
Ah, well! let her hope on ! another hour, and the tale would
be told.
The Emperor lifted his eyes, and there went up in  '  art
the silent prayer: "As thou wilt, 0 God!" It ma e d little
to him how it went. His heart shrank from, leaving his com-
rades behind. Meija and- Miramon, were doomed like himself;
now, since all his brightest hopes had been blighted, since the
rosy mist that enveloped the future 1ad been dissolved, since
so far, naught but miserable failure ha been the reward of his
most earnest labor, he dreaded, almost, another trial.
But then, despite himself, - despite the despair and despera-
tion that came to his lips,- there was a tiny hope, a faint dream,
that perhaps he should see Oarlotta again ; perhaps he might, in
the years to come, at Miramar, lead her back to paths of happi-

I

Em
mm.
im
Im
Rim
In
amp


CR0W2 JEWELS             411

410             CROWN JEWELS.

ness, whereon shone all the stars of heaven. And so, in his
narrow room, he went restlessly about, waiting for the moment
to come, waiting for the hour that seemed an eternity, to wear
itself away ; and the Italian, sitting on the corridor without,
hearing the impatient footsteps, bent his head upon his hands,
and chuckled with delight at his own thoughts.
Down in a deep ravine, behind the Convent, - caused by
the washing rains of many winters, - whose banks were
overhung with a thick growth of bushes, --in a -little recess,
which shut him in from the- moonlight, Captain Joubert sat;
he too, waiting and thinking.. Now and -then, a half-uttered
exclamation of impatience would escape, as the stamping of
horse's feet. from the other side of the ravine, would reach him.
It seemed as if old Father Time had forgotten his business,.--
that he had never lagged so before; that the moonlight had
never shone so brightly; that horses had never been so restless;
that he, himself, in all the days of his soldier's discipline, had
never, on the eve of battle, in the foray wild, or in the midnight
attack, felt so nervously apprehensive of the issue. He had, in
the changes of his-chequered life, in France and Russia, found
himself, in many places, face to face with death, - with capture;
but then, it was only his poor humble self, only the aimless des-
tiny, the striking from the lists the name of a soldier of France:
out to-night, it was an Emperor, a Prince, above all, a noble,
chivalric injured hero, that he would save from death. Jou-.
bert's soul swelled within him at the thought. "God grant
that he might succeed !" There were Inez and Sister Th6rese at
the Convent, with sleepless eyes, keeping a prayerful vigil in
their little cells, in trusting faith, looking for the dawn to bring
the good tidings that "the Emperor was free!"
There were the many hearts in Mexico, in Europe, yea, and
in the Republic too, now cast down, that would rise up joyfully
tohear the blessed words, "The Emperor is saved!" There was
the gentle Empress Carlotta, who would perhaps remember to
ask the story of how it came, and who was the man that helped
to save her lord.
This would be enough. Joubert did not care for honors; if
those who loved the Emperor, would but remember Joubert,
would but love his name for this deed,-he would be content to,
go baok 'to the hills of Normandy, and feel that he had received
his portion in life; that wild, adventurous, thoughtless, as he
had been from his youth up, his life would not have been a
failure,

But if Del Borgo should be playing false ? If he should dash
all by betrayal?  His last words when they had parted in the
twilight behind the convent wall had been, "All's right; every-
thing is arranged; be at the corner, where the wall is a little
broken, precisely at twelve."
Joubert rose; it surely must be coming near twelve. He
w ould go up above, among the low bushes, and see"what of
the night.",w                                       to
Clambering up the steep ascent as lightly as a chamois hunter,
catching occasionally the overhanging vines and shrubs, he was
soon at the top of the bank. Stealing along through the trees,
which grew high enough just at this point to hide him, he
stopped and looked out.
The moonlight fell full and clear upon the turreted roof of
the Convent, and the high arched windows, with their diamond-
cut panes, glittered as crystal when the rays came against them.
Through the window, he ;could see the light within the room
of the captain of the guard, shining steady as. a fixed star.
On the other side of the Convent, where the battalion was
encamped, all seemed quiet, and not a sound broke the stillness.
To reach the long, deep shadow of the convent wall, it was
necessary to cross an open space of fifty yards or more, from
where Joubert stood.
Cautiously, but quickly, Joubert stole across this, and once
n the shadow, he crept towards the wall and made his way
along its length, to the point agreed upon between Del Borgo
and himself.
Stopping, he leaned quite close to the wall, and drawing his
pistols, which were well loaded, to the front, so that his hand
might rest upon them, he stood in breathless, silence. He knew
that when the Emperor had made the descent from the window,
he would .have to run the gauntlet of the sentry within the
garden, which now, naught but a mass of unkept shrubs and
trees, hardly deserved the name. But the Emperor could make
his way through these, while the sentinel was at the fhrthere
extremity of his beat, or conceal himself amid the shrubbery,
until he saw his chance
The bell struck twelve. Only a few moments more, and all
would indeed be. well. The voices of the guard sounded, and
then again was quiet.
Not a breeze stirred the face of nature ; not a sound broke
upo t    ear; but a solemn, oppressive silence such as must

2


412            CROWN JEWELS.

have prevailed in the regions of Darkness and Chaos, hung over
everything.
fist ! Captain Joubert's well-trained ear has heard some-
thing : was it a footstep within? He looks anxiously around;
steals forward a few paces to reach the corner. There ! he hears
it again; it must be the Emperor ; thank God, he is at the
wall within ! He turns hurriedly-great heaven ! what is this?
His eyes look into the muzzle of a pistol, and a Liberal officer
stands at his side, and a voice, sotto voce, hisses into his ear,
"We have no traitors in our camp ! Save yourself -your
Emperor too, if you can:.                                .
- For a moment Joubert looked intensely and earnestly into-
the man's face, and it brought back to him the caf6 of old
Puillet, and the darkly lighted midnight chamber above.
It flashed over him in an instant: Del Borgo  had betrayed
their plot, and he himself was to be made a prisoner in this
man's hands. ." No, no! not while life lasted. There might be
forty behind this officer within call; but they should not capture
him; it should be life for life."
"-By the God above us !" he exclaimed, drawing his pistol
with one hand, and with the other wrenching the one from the
hand of his antagonist, "if you have cheated the Emperor of
life, you shall give your own for it !
A shrill whistle rang out on the air, and a volley of oaths
succeeded. His antagonist has given alarm to those who
are doubtless in waiting, and is now attacking him with his
sabre. Joubert, as he fires and sends a death-message to the
heart of the officer, sees, just beyond, a dozen or more Liberal
soldiers rushing towards them. A-sudden hope leaps into his
heart. If he could but reach the ravine, there might be a
chance of escape ! It is death in any event: his opponent lies
at his feet, and he will make the desperate risk.
A second later, and he is crossing the open space. A dozen
balls whiz past him, and he hears the footsteps of the soldiers
in pursuit. He turns and fires as he plunges down the descent
into the .ravine ; his shot is echoed behind him. If he can
but reach the horses on the other side, he is safe. He hears
them following him in the ravine. . Upward he climbs, -he
has lost his footing -he is lost now ! No ! there is a vine,
thank God ! He pulls himself up-he has reached the bank -
he has mounted one of the horses tied beyond ! On, on he goes,
leaving his pursuers still in the ravine -on, on towards the

sea-coast ! Joubert is safe'! but the Emperor  there is naught
but death for him!
Yes; Del Borgo had played him false; had beguiled, with a
promise of life, and had mocked him with death. And as the
little Italian kept up his beat through the night-hours, know-
ing that his prisoner was waiting for a sound he should never
hear, was dreaming of a land, a face, he should n ver see ;
as he thought of Joubert duped and captured himself, there
was a chuckle again of demoniac satisfaction, that he had over-
reached their well-laid plans.
The dawn came; and Inez and Sister Th6rese knelt in the
chapel, and in their hearts the matin prayer shaped itself into
the words that had gone up as holy nocturne through the
night-: "God preserve them ! God keep them, and speed them
to safety ! "
But the prayers were hushed and they were stricken dumb
with grief, when, before the day had grown an hour older, there
was murmured throughout the convent, that the morning vis-
itors had brought the report of "'an attempt made the night
before to rescue the Emperor by bribing the guard. One of
them, however, had disclosed the plot to Captain Juan Gonzales,
of Regiment ., who had, with a few picked men, waited
without the convent walls for thedevelopment of the plot. In
the contest between Captain Gonzales and the man, who was
waiting to assist the Emperor to escape, Captain Gonzales was
shot dead before his men could get to him, and the man
'escaped.  It was not known how many were concerned in
the plot, nor who were the parties, save the one who had, as a
Liberal soldier, attempted to execute the plan. In future, the
guard about the Emperor would be increased; no visitors
would be allowed him, except under the closest surveillance,
and he would be doubtless kept secure until the execution,
which was now but three days hence."
Inez was stunned. Great Father ! he had been permitted to
cross her path again. She sank down o her knees beside
Sister Therese, in the little cell, and  '  her face in her
hands, she exclaimed,
" Sister, he is the spirit of evil that has darkened my life ;
and his last act, unconsciously, perhaps, with him, has been to
strike another blow in hate ! "
Sister Th6rese knew of the estrangement of this wicked man
from his family.. She knew the character he bore; but knew
not half the burden he had laid upon the patient, gentle girl at

I

CROWN JE1 EL,              X13

1


CROWN JEWELS.

her side. Yet, she spoke the words that were fittest at this
moment.
" My child, he has met his reward ! His soul stands before
the Great Throne disrobed ; trembling, before the glance of
the One who sitteth thereon: It is godlike to forgive, aye,
seventy times seven. We have done everything that was
in our ower, and still the worst has come. Child, let us pray
for the souls of the dead, and pray that the will of Him that
ruleth on land and' sea be done in heaven and earth."

--+ --e

CHAPTER XLIX.

i T is the night before the execution. The prisoners
have, during the day, been assigned to the room for-
merly used as the chapel of the convent, where they
are to pass the last night together. A long, dark
apartment on the ground floor, with windows looking into the
court-yard on one side, and on the other into the garden be-
hind the Convent. At one end of the apartment is the altar,
draped in black; and the dim light of two or three wax tapers
scarcely dispels the shadows lurking in the further corners.
Upon a low couch, in one corner, the gallant Meija lay sleep-
ing, as calmly unconscious of danger as an infant. His lion
heart is not appalled by the vision of death; and God has
kindly shut out from his eyes, for a while, the cruel fate that
points hour by hour to his waning life.
But a little distance from the altar, near a grated window, is
General Miramon, and by his side sits Father Fischer, whisper-
ing, in a low, half-audible voice, words of heavenly promise
and consolation.
To and fro, backward and forward from the altar to the fur-
ther end of the long room, his proud head bowed upon his
bosom as an eagle would droop his crest, apparently lost in
thought and deep meditation, the Emperor, Maximilian keeps
up a measured tread. -Bearing himself nobly to the last, and
steeling his heart against the tender emotions at would now
and then rush over his soul, Maxirgilian face the inevitable"
wih the same high spirit and noble consciousness of rectitude'
that has borne him so heroically throughout his declining for.,

tunes. He approached the window, near which Meija slept,
and leaning against the stone casement, looked ,out upon the
beauty of the night. In the distance, were the misty moun-
tains, always the prominent feature in the perspective of
* Mexican scenery. The silver moon shining above in the blue
sky, with a beauty'unknown in colder climes, and the deep hue
of the tropical empyrean vault, set forth the stars as diamond
points of light. Now and then, a passing cloud obscured the
brilliant faces, but the Queen of the night would ride forth
from the shadowy depths, and again bend her chat yant eyes
upon the sleeping earth beneath. The saturnalia of animal life
had begun in the garden below. A thousainsects whose life
would wither at the north wind's blast, kept up a ceaseless song
in the shadows of the trees.
If there is an unseen power that invests a spirit standing
upon the verge of eternity with strength to triumph over
human, fear and weakness; with such power to-night was the
Emperor enabled to rise above the finite purposes of mor-.
tality; and he stood divested of the hopes and fears that hang
about the tenement of clay. With him, Thought alone lived;
all else was crushed. He knew that;the end was come. Inez
Gonzales, in1 her noble, heroicnature had cast the last die,
and it had failed.
.Standing there in the stillness of the midnight, with no
sound save the measured tread of the watching sentry and the
low, suppressed breathing of the sleeping warriors near him, in
calm reflection his thoughts went back into the past. He num-
bered over the rise and fall of the powers of the earth from
earliest antiquity down to the last act of his own drama.
All along the pathway of history he saw' them,-the fallen em-
pires, kingdoms, and nations, and above their ruins, he saw in
fancy the ghost of a weeping Marius. There was Rome and
Athens. Though the proud eagle fed upon'the vitals of Attic
liberty ; though it winged its flight even to Palestine, -yet the
shadow of years dimmed the silver stars of the crescent that
glittered through the land of Judea.
Hush ! Softly and sweetly amid the trees in the garden
below, coming up to the lonely prisoner as an echo of that
happy time of boyhood, breathing into his soul afresh the mem-
ory of the green hills of his native land, that his eyes shall never
look on more, -softly and tenderly sounds out the midnight
 song of the nightigale; now a wild carol of melody, and now
* the subdued notes of sadness, akin to knowledge of human woe.

CRO WiN JE W1JLS.

A15

A1A4


416              CROWN JEWELS.

Aye, it does bring up -that midnight song - those years
gone by ; Vienna - the Prater -Isolani - Trieste - the blue.
waves of the Adriatic- Miramar - Carlotta!
He thought of how the world was going on, little heeding,
and little recking, perhaps, that he should perish. There was '
his royal brother, united at last in- love and concord to his
Hungarian subjects. He remembered the heroes of his ancient
house; one by one, with all honor, they had been gathered
to the tomb of the Hapsburgs. Had he striven less faithfully
than they to add a leaf to the crown of the Hapsburgs?  Ah!
he had done his best, and there was but one thing left for him
now, - to die like a Hapsburg ! A strong, gpdlike feeling lifted
his soul, and a glance of triumph. beamed in his eye, as he ex-
claimed, half aloud,--
" I shall die gloriously, like a king !"
He turned from tie window, and his eye fell upon the sleep-
ing Meija. He, too, was to die, -to share his fate; he had been
faithful unto the end. As Maximilian gazed upon the dark,
heavily-cut features, and thought of the battles this hero had
fought and won for him; thought of how often they had fought
together for the Empire, and now they were to die together,
-he placed his hand upon the sleeper's head, and in his heart
invoked a blessing on him; prayed silently that together their,
spirits might pass through the shadowy land, and together rest
before the Eternal Throne.
The saddest farewells were yet to come ; there must be a
last adieu to his mother and to Carlotta. His mother ! a hal-
lowed name ! The first his lips had learned to breathe ; to her
lie must send the message, that her son bore with him the
memory of her last blessing, through all the days of his absence.
And to the wife -the last words of love he penned in the
midnight stillness: -
" MY BELOVED CARLOTTA:
"If God permits that thy health be restored, and you should
read these lines, you will learn the cruelty with which fate has
stricken thy husband, since thy departure for Europe. So
many untoward events, so many sudden blows have shattered
all,my hopes, that death is a happy deliverance, 'not an agony.
I shall die gloriously, like a king ; vanquished, but.not dishon-
ored. If your sufferings are too gr at, and God should call you
soon to join me, I shall bless his  iine hand. .Adieu! adieu !
(,Your
"AXIMILIAN.

The night is growing old, and the hours are waning. Al-
ready the bells have sounded the midnight, and slowly, but
surely, it neareth the dawn.
Father Fischer has risen, and stands before the altar. Sol-
emnly, the three penitents draw near, and kneel before him on
the steps of the altar. Together they pray God to have mercy
upon His servants, about to pass from earth-life into the mys-
teries of Eternity.
One by one they receive the holy sacrament, and Father
Fischer pronounces the absolution. For hours they kneel
there, each one pleading in the holy prayers of the last mass
for the salvation of his soul.
Now and then, the silence, deep and solemn, is broken by the
voice of the Father, as he repeats, again and again, the earnest
prayer, " Kyrie Eleison!"
" Kyrie Eleison !:" echo the kneeling penitents; "hear, 0
Lord, and have mercy upon us ! "
As the words oT the requiem tremblingly sound forth, "Eter-
nal rest give to them, 0 Lord; and let perpetual shine upon
them!" the first faint glimmerings of the Dies Irm, creep into
the eastern horizon, and stealing through the grated windows
of the Convent, rest in gloomy indistinctness upon the bended
forms of those, whose sun of life is nearly set.
The first rays of a June sun are gleaming over the empyrean
brow of the lofty Cordilleras peaks, and slanting downward,
over the sloping descents, dissolving the vapor of the-curling
mists, bathing rock, tree, and tower in golden light, and rest
at last in - a halo over a city of the tropic. Above, the blue
sky, gazing down upon Querataro and its environs, takes in a
Paradise picture, richer in romance and beauty, than the cre-
ation of a poet's fancy.
How truly does the All-seeing One present each day to the
children of men His longsuffering and holy. forbearance !
and how patiently does he stay'the avenging hand of outraged
Justice, until that day of wrath, when he shall claim the time
for vengeance as his own! Why does He send His rain upon
the just and the unjust alike ?  Why did the glorious bright-
ness of that June sun gladden the hearts of the men of evil
purpose in Mexico, who waited for daylight and sunshine to
witness' their mocking sacrifice to Liberty ? The sun shines
on ; not alone over mountain-side and 4balley, but its beams
falling in the city, over the marble facade of some holy temple,

CYR 0 W1V JE yVELS.          -     417


CROWN JEWELS.              419

CR OWN JEWELS.

over the diamond spray of a jetting fountain, over the orange.
trees of the Plaza, flashes upon the burnished steel of bayonet
and sabre, and fell on dark, vengeful faces, or the calm, inciif-
.ferent- countenances of the soldiery, who were gathering near
the Convent of the Capuchinas.
At ,an early hour on this fatal day, Inez Gonzales arose.
She made a hasty toilette, and, going to the latticed window,
threw it wide, that the day and its light might come in. Over
the far away hills, the vapors - round the mountain curl,"
and below among the trees of the garden, the gleeful birds
trilled forth a song of welcome to the dawn. , As few as the
hours of the summer night had been, they had dragged along
with leaden weight to Inez, for there had been with her that
fevered turmoil of thought that, tries the brain and wearies the
heart; and this morning, she stood by the open window, sick
and faint in spirit, pining to throw down the burden of life.
Looking, out over the plains, from which the purple shadows"
had fled, the birds of thought sped onward, over the mountain
and hill-top, over the fields of cactus, over the-orange-groves, to
the shores that are lapped by the waters of the broad Atlantic ;
and onward still, over the Adriatic gulf, they reach the castled
crag, apd rest with the one who, but a few months since,
was her friend and companion, and whose blighted life calls up
now a tear of bitter grief. Inez remembers the sweet days of
the past ; when those " sweet bells were all attuned in har-
mony ;" and as she thinks of her Empress, now as unconscious
as the sleeping babe, of the great, dark curtain of sorrow that
is to shut out the light from the future, she falls upon her.
knees,,and her heart goes forth in a despairing, Tlectra-like
plaint:
" Oh, my Empress ! I have done all,-all that I could, and it
is naught ! " She bowed her head upon the gray stone ledge
of the window-casement before her, and her voice was hushed;
but remembering, perhaps, the omniscience of that God who
destroyed the " rider and his host," who did not hold back His
power from His chosen people of old, she could not keep back
from her lips the prayer of her heart :
" Great God ! great God ! save him, save him, even now, if
it be possible ! The hand of man is as naught before thee !
Save him now, if it be possible !'
In all reverence Inez spoke; in all reverence she plead to
the Mighty Being she called her Father. Whiy should He not
do this great thing in answer to her .prayer, if she prayed

aright, as He had answered Joshua when the sun stood still
upon Gibeon, and the,moon in the valley of Ajalon, until the
children of Israel had prevailed over their enemies?
Ah ! if the prayer be offered aright ! God moves in a mys-
terious way, and though it be the right or the wrong that tri-
umphs the Judge of the earth will give the reward in His own
good time.
But leaving Inez Gonzales alone with her grief and her
tears, and her efforts at saving faith and trust in God, let us
look to those who are to be th actors in the bloody drama at
Querataro.
At the Convent of the Capuchinas, the burning exhalations
of the roseate dawn, have given place to a golden halo in the
eastern sky. The large brazen bell of the convent is tolling
the hour of seven; and,floating on the morning air, are strains
of martial  usic. Coming nearer and nearer to the Convent,
is the slow, _ ,easured tread of the Liberal soldiers, who are to
form the escort of death. The command of their officer,
"Halt !" rings forth, and they form themselves in unbroken
file on either side of the court-yard gate, and with burnished
bayonets flashing in the sunlight, they wait in silence the com-
ing of the prisoners.
Not long do they wait. There are sounds of footsteps along
the corridor, and in the court-yard within. The huge gates are
thrown open, and, coming forward between two armed sexitinels,
followed by four darkly clad Franciscan monks, is the Em-
peror, General Miramon, and General Meija. Calm and un-
moved, with not, a muscle in the face of either betokening
aught, save a determination to meet death as braveamen should,.
they stop for a moment at the convent gates. With lion-like
glance, looking first at the soldiers on either side, General
Meija turned to the Emperor, and in a clear, ringing voice, ex-
claimed,-
" Our Emperor, show us for the last time the example of
your noble courage ! We follow in the footsteps of your Ma-
jesty! "
Maximilian turned to him with a smile of quiet dignity, and,
while his lip curled with conscious heroism, as he took the ad-
vance, he answered,-
" Vamos nos a libertadI/ Let us advance to liberty!" "
The soldiers form on either side, and conduct the prisoners
to the carriages waiting a short distance in front.
The solemn procession wound its way along the outskirts of

A418*


420             CROWN JEWELS.

CROWN JEWELS              421

the city, by the route of the aqueduct, and soon reached a hill-
top, near the Cerro de las Campanas, overlooking the plain of
execution.
The carriages are stopped, and the prisoners decend from
them. As the Emperor stood near the wall of the cemetery
on one side, he paused for a moment to drink in the beauty of
the last earth-picture his eyes should see. The heavy curtain
of mist that had hung around the distant mountains, was roll-
ing up before the sunshine, and, according to the fancy of the
beholder, assumed a hundred 'grotesque shapes ; now curling
gently downwards, and conforming to a thousand hillside in-
dentations, now.rising upward into the castled battlements of
some huge tower. of wild architectural beauty, and gradually
dissolving in vapor, floating sky-ward. Above all, the glorious
sun grandly and proudly moving in his onward course.
Fixing his eye upon that monarch, with his enduring crown,
the one who had lost kingdom, crown, and all in life, exclaimed,
as if in colloquy with his own soul:
" How grand, how glorious, is heaven and earth ! Thank
God for death 'neath, the clear sky, on a day like this ! " And
then, with the thought of the nearness.of the fatal hour came
again the memory of those he was to leave upon earth. He
drew from his breast a watch, and touching the spring, re-
vealed .the face of her who had been his all in all in life. He
pressed it fervently to 'his lips, and, impulsively turning to the
priestly Father who stood by him, he whispered,--
" Carry this souvenir to her; and should she ever be able to
understand you, tell her that my eyes were closed with her
image before them, and I bore it with me to Heaven."
The sad, dirge-like strains of the dead march, and the sound
of the'muffled drum beating before them, tells that they have
reached the place of execution; and from behind, where they
have left the city, the convent bells begin to toll a solemn knell.
The crowd, that has gathered as they came out, press forward
with eager curiosity ; but as the three prisoners are led for-
ward, and assigned #o places in front of the double row of sol-
diers, already formed with muskets charged, the soldiery keep
back the idle gazers.
On one side are ranged in solemn order the praying monks,
who witl devoted piety hold aloft the blessed cross, and from
time to time devoutly make the sign of the holy symbol, as
they call upon the "blessed Virgin," and dole forth their" Ave
Marias !"

The Emperor has his position in the centre, and extending
his arms, first to Miramon, and then to his favorite Meija, he
clasped them to his' heart in a last embrace. As he. turns his
face again to the waiting soldiery, the commanding officer rides
forward, and, as if in fiendish hate to stab the royal victim at
the last,'reads out the inhuman edict*that had been issued the
day before:
"Soldiers ! in the name of the nation, he who solicits mercy
for these criminals, shall be shot as a traitor himself! "
The hushed and solemn stillness that hung over the crowd
was broken by a piercing shriek; and between the armed sole
diery and the three who were waiting the last messenger of
death, there rushed a young girl, her long, dark hair floating on
the wind, and her eyes turned upward, with an earnest, intense
fire. Falling upon her knees before the soldiers, whose mus-
kets were already levelled for their fatal aim, and clasping her
hands, she exclaimed, --
"There is a voice, 0 Emperor ! to plead thy cause -- to
plead the cause of virtue, chivalry, and honor ! Oh ! Mexicans,
beware, beware ! The.Most High God, will open the vials of
His wrath upon, those that do this cruel murder. If ye have
human hearts, spare him ! spare him ! "
Inez Gonzales fell, fainting and prostrate, before the soldiery.
The vindictive voice of the commanding officer rang out again:
"Ready ! - Aim ! --Fire ! "
Sharp and quick, the shots came in succession. And speeding
over the body of-the heroic girl, the deed is done. Amidst the
smoke that gathers above them, lie the murdered prostrate forms
of Maximilian, Miramon, and Meija.
Mexico ! the messenger that struck the life from the heart
of thy Emperor, plunged its dagger to thy vitals also ! The
star of Empire that had ,paused o'er thee, takes its -onward
course, and leaves thee again to darkness and desolation. The
hand of .destruction that was laid upon the Halls of the Mon-
tezumas, and crumbled their pride into dust, shall not spare
thee. In that great day of the nations' reckoning, canst thou
plead, "Remember mercy"?    The spirit of the dead of the
Alamo - --of Fannin and his murdered heroes, and of the latest
noble victims, shall cry out for "Vengeance !" And through the
rolling ages of eternity, the words shall. burn in the souls of
thy sons, and echo forever, in their ears, in condemnation,
" That mercy ILto others show,
That mercy show to me !"


422

CROWN JEWELS.

CHAPTER L.

HANDSOMELY furnished library of a private resi.
dence near the centre of the beautiful city of La Puebla.
d) The room is fitted up with all the comforts and luxu-
ries which wealth can procure. A case of well-bound
volumes extends across one side ; and opposite is a heavily
carved" escritoire, surmounted by a bronze bust of Hidalgo.
Upon the frescoed walls hang several portraits, whose dark col-
oring and antique frames accord well with the sombre richness
of the apartment. Through the vine-covered lattice of the win-
dows, the dying sunlight casts a thousand fantastic shadows
upon the ingrained oaken floor. Now and then, there comes in
a tiny zephyr, like,-_
" The sweet south, that breathes, upon a bank
Of violets ; stealing and giving odor."
But the sunlight, the shadows, and the wooings of the gen-
tle breeze are alike unheeded by the occupant of this silent
chamber. A man quite at the top of the hill of life, his hair
just silvered, and his brow, somewhat wrinkled with the furrows
of passing years, contracted now by deep thought, almost into
a frown..
Colonel Lopez sits-by the table, strewn with papers and books,
near the centre of ,the room; his head resting upon his hand,
and his eyes cast downward upon the polished oak. What is
it that gives him such deep thought? what is it that makes
him forget all outside-things ? --
Ah ! Judas, Judas ! though thou hast already clutched the
shining gold that bought thy honor, thou hast not been able to
sell thy Conscience as easily as thou didst thy master!t If thou
couldst hush those voices that come to thee in the daylight, and
in the midnight, ringing in thine ears, "Remorse ! remorse ! "if
thou couldst get away from the dark shadow that follows thee
everywhere, that is with thee at thy incoming and thy out-
going, in the sanctuary, in the - cafe, in the thoroughfare;

CROWN JEWELS.

423

that points at thee the finger of scorn, and cries out so
loudly that the multitude catches the echo, "Behold the
traitor !" -if thou couldst murder and silence these, then,-per-
haps, in triumph and peace thou mightst count over thy treas-
ure, and cry)to thy craven soul, "Eureka!
But they are with him, constant and true; damning him to
himself, moment by moment, hour by hour.
He sits there with his head bowed, listening to the voice
that is telling him low, the history of the day well-nigh past.
In desperation, he rises, and with a half-muttered oath, strides
backward and forward, his hands clasped behind him, and his
head thrown up, as if in attempt to bid defiance to those who
scoff him.
In vain ! He cannot get away ! He flings himself again in
his chair, and is silent while the spirit voice speaks. It tells
him of-the morning hour, whQn he reached his home at Puebla,
and sought the presence of his wife ; and brings up to him
again the words of contempt and scorn with which she spurned
him from her presence. It points to him -himself -cowering
before her calm, earnest eyes, when she tells him, "he is un-
worthy to be her husband.". Wrought up in heart. by shame,
and a sense of misery and disgrace, he rushed from her presence
and descends into the street below. lie goes onward through
the street, endeavoring to hold his head aloft, and to whisper
to his soul that " he has gold,- and gold, thank God! will com-
mand, will buy respect ; for Mammon rules the world!"  A
party'of Liberal troopers - a wild, reckless set, are turning into
the street just before him. Such a clattering of horses' hoofs
have drawn curious eyes to the windws on either side. Colonel
Lopez carries his head higher still, and tries to walk proudly
on as they pass. But a keen eye has noted him, a whisper runs
through the file of soldiers; and, as they put spurs to their
horses, a mocking shout is heard,-" Long life to Judas!.
Long life to Lopez ! "
"Curse those. insolent dogs ! Diaz shall know of this !
Specimens of Liberal discipline ! They shall suffer- for this,
and learn to fear the name of Miguel Lopez!"
Heated with arnger, he turned into a well-known. restaurant
and cafe, kept by a Spaniard, on the principal street, and
much frequented by the gentlemen of the upper class, and the
officers of whichever army happened to be in possession of the
city. There were half a score or more to-day, lounging about
the caf6; some taking their brandy and refreshments at the

4


*RO WN JEWELS..           425

424

CROWN JEWELS.

little tables towards the back of the room;' others are le aming
on the counter near the front, discussing and arguing the pro-
gress of military events.
As he entered, and ordered brandy and refreshments, there
were curious gazes cast upon him by the idlers. He wore the
Liberal uniform, but he was not an officer that they had been
accustomed to seeing about Puebla. Only over the dark face
of the old Spaniard at the bar, there passed a look of recogni-
tion, and a momentary smile of contempt.. He remembered
Miguel Lopez; many a glass of brandy had he dealt out to him
before; for it had been for long years Rinaldo had kept this
caf6 on the Plaza of Puebla.
Colonel Lopez had finished his brandy, and stood waiting for-
Rinaldo to take up the piece of gold that he had laid down upon
the counter. There was a glance of triumph, and a wicked
smile dancing in the keen black eye of the little Spaniard, as
he took up the coin and hurled it through the open door into
the Plaza.
Senor! "he exclaimed, "we do not receive here the price
of blood ! Seunor Lopez may drink our brandy, but we cannot
take his gold 1" Reaching forward, he took up the glass from
which, a few moments before, Colonel Lopez had drank. " That
no gentleman may pollute his lips in our caf6, by touching the
glass which a traitor has used, perish it thus !"  He dashed
the glass upon the stone floor behind him, and it was shivered
into a hundred pieces.
Colonel Lopez looked up in surprise. His face flushed, and
his heart trembled, as he met the looks of those around; and, as
he turned to leave the cafe, conscience-stricken, he heard behind
him a ringing laugh, and many voices joining in the words,-
"Bravo, Rinaldo ! bravo ! We all drink to your good
health! "
Maddened almost to. desperation, he hurried away from 'the
Plaza. He did not look into the faces now, of those he met ;
there was no pride in his bearing, nor in his eye ; he wanted to
get away from the crowded street, from human eyes, from him-
self. Would to God that he' could !.
On -- on - he went, he knew not whither. Up and down
the long, stony streets; now by an. ivy-covered convent, and
now by a solemn-faced cathedral.  It was in' vain; there
was no rest for him. The very stones. over which he hurried
seemed to cry out to him, "Traitor ! traitor !There was a
mocking spirit in the-breeze --in the jangling of the city bells,

as they sounded out, that seemed to echo the words, "Traitor!
traitor!" 0 God! he could not stand it ! To be thus hooted
at, aid scorned by the lowest of the Liberal soldiery ; to- be
publicly insulted by a rascal of a caf6-keeper;. and to feel that
it was the truth, -that he could not resent it ! That he had
given the Juarists what they wanted - a Republic, had rid
them of the Emperor; and scarcely was the life-current stopped
in his heart before he, the deliverer, was scorr ed !
At last, with the turmoil still in his  t,with the surg-
ings of pride and the lashings of conscience beating upon his
soul he found himself before the court-yard of his own house.
Mechanically, he went in; and avoiding even the looks of the
domestics who stood chatting in the court, he hurried through
the corridors to the library, and shut himself up.
Through the long hours since the noontime, he has been
there alone ; and, now at the twilight, the same voice haunts
him with -her truthful word-pictures of himself, inadderi~im
again with this record of the day.
"This -- this, is thy reward, Miguel Lopez!" sounds like a
knell to his heart,---" hated -despised - contemned !"
A sound of footsteps along the corridor without; the door
is softly opened, and' the voice of a servant rouses Colonel
Lopez from his bitter meditation.
" Seior, a lady below asks permission to speak with you.in
private for a few minutes."
"A lady?" repeatedColonel Lopez thoughtfully. " Does
she send, up her name? "
"S She does not, senor. I should call her a Holy Sister, from
her dress," added the man. "She bade me say she would de-
tain you only a short ' while.A
SyThen show her here,"said Colonel Lopez, after some hesi-
tation. "There can be no trick in it!" he half whispered.
" A nun, did you say, Pietro ? " to the man, who had waited to
close the windows, and was now lighting the large, heavy lamp
that hung suspended over the table.
tI did not see her face, senior, but her dress was black."
The servant left the room, and Colonel Lopez walked uneasily
back and forth, awaiting his visitor. There was a soft,' subdued
light resting upon the dark faces upon the walls, rounding the
sharp ctt angles of th6 carved, bookcases, and driving the
shadows into the dreamy twilight that lurked still in the cor-
ners of the apartment. Around the table in the centre, upon
te polished oaken floor, there rested a luminous circleo  h


426             CROWN JEWELS.

light that came down, steady and clear, from the flame under
the crystal shade above.
Colonel Lopez stopped and rested his hand upon the table,
as the - servant again opened the door, and his visitor entered
unannounced.
A woman, slightly above medium height, attired in a heavy
trailing dress of black, her face- covered by a deep mourning
veil, that fell in folds far down the skirt, stood before him.
As the door closed behind her, and the sound of the servant's-
retreating footsteps were heard growing less distinct, she
pushed aside^ her veil, and revealed to Colonel Lopez, who
stood anxiously waiting, a face belonging to one, some three or
four and twenty, - a face, that was beautiful, in its dark
Spanish cast, with a touch of hauteur slightly curling the proud
lips ; beautiful in spite of the traces of suffering which rested
upon it. As she lifted her deep, lustrous eyes to Colonel Lopez,
a look of recognition passed over his face ; and going forward,
he exclaimed quickly, -
" Do I mistake, or have I the honor of speaking to Seuorita
Gonzales ? If my memory serves me rightly, I have seen La
Senorita before at -at-"
He hesitated, with evident embarrassment; {to be definite
with his past, was not pleasant now to Colonel Lopez.
"You are right, Colonel Lopez," said Inez calmly finishing
the sentence for him. "You have often seen me with the Em-
press at the Palace !"
" Will the senorita be seated? " said Colonel Lopez quickly,
placing a chair ; " and will she let me know in what way I can
serve her ? "
"Colonel Lopez can do nothing for me," replied Inez, resting
her hand upon the chair he had offered, " save to have the
goodness to be seated himself ; and I beg the favor of his atten-
tion for a very few moments. I find myself here to-night," she
continued, as Colonel Lopez complied with her request, and
resumed .his chair by the table, " to fulfil a sacred duty. My
aunt and myself leave Mexico forever, for Spain, in a very
few days; but I could not go without performing the last trust
I hold in charge for another ; and as our route to Vera Cruz
brings us to Puebla, I find it convenient to deliver to 'night, in
person, the message I hold for Colonel Lopez."  -
"1A message for me, sefiorita ? and you come from -- ? "
" Querataro!" said Inez, slowly and solemnnly.
The word startled the listener, as if " murder " had been

whispered in his ear ; but turning his head from her earnest
gaze, he answered with an effort at ease.: "And who of my
good friends has been kind enough to rememember me ? "
" Remember you, Colonel Lopez ? "said Inez, with a touch of
sarcasm. "Does Colonel Lopez think he will ever be forgot-
ten ? Yes," she added after a pause ; " the message is from one
who was your good friend, Colonel Lopez, to the last; and,
though his lips are sealed now in the siLence of a grave which
you gave to him, yet I speak for him to-night. Your Emperor,
Colonel Lopez, and your friend, when he stood in the sunlight
of the morning, upon the plain of Querataro, his noble head
uncovered, and his flashing eyes looking heroically into the
faces of the messengers of Death, cried out in the greatness of
of his soul, to some lover of justice, to " tell Lopez, I forgive
him ! " Through the month that has passed since the Emperor
Maximilian has been numbered with the dead; I have borne
these words as a trust sacredly reposed. I bring them to you
to-night; more godlike than any that mortal lips have uttered
since the Holy Christ on the cross prayed, "Father, forgive
them!"   Take them, Colonel Lopez; and if there is a place in
your heart pure enough to receive them, keep them there, and
prize them!!"
Lopez had bowed his head upon his hands, so that Inez could
not see the pallor that had crept into his face. As she drew the
picture of the Emperor's death-scene, and as she ceased speak-
ing now, a groan of anguish escaped him.
" And have you too come to taunt me ? "he exclaimed, with-
out raising his head ; " would that I had never heard the name
of Maximilian of Austria ! "
" Would that he had never seen Miguel Lopez ! "exclaimed
Inez warmly. "The Emperor Maximilian has gone to his
grave, proudly, nobly, heroically, wrapped in a mantle of great-
ness ; and he has left behind a name that shall be kept green
in the hearts of those who love chivalry and honor! But re-
member, Colonel Lopez, that you have sold from yourself all
but life; your earth-destiny is crowned. When History shall
write the names coupled with black dishonor, whose is it shall
form a trinity with those of Iscariot and Arnold ! - whose, but
Miguel Lopez'! And think you, when, the Republicans hold
high revel over poor bleeding Mexico, they shall remember the
traitor that gave it to them ? Taunt thee, Colonel Lopez ? No,
o    I have come, not only in the name of the martyred dead,
but in that of Justice, and Liberty, whom thou hast, sorely

CROWN JEWELS.              427


428              CRO WY JEWELS.

wounded, to tell thee the ru  ; to tell thee thy race is run ; to
tell thee, there is a voice  shall ceaselessly sound a "memento
mori " in thy ears; to t  hee, the Emperor shall be avenged !"
Inez's words were d ep and earnest, and as the last sentence
rang out in the sile e, the guilty man, who had almost cowered
before h r,  rte up from his bent posture.
" Girl, you a e mad ! " he exclaimed wildly ; "you have not
come here to do this deed!"
For a moment he looked earnestly into her face; and then,
as he noted the quiet calmness on her features, he shrank
before her. There was a dignity, a holiness about her, that
awed him ; and the cutting truthfulness of her words stabbed
already the life from his heart-
Inez spurned with contempt the craven before her ; in spite of
herself, it crept into her voice and words, as she answered,-
"I-kill -thee, Miguel Lopez? I would not kill the worm
in my pathway. You mistake; it is thy Conscience, that shall
lash thee into the grave ; it is thy0Conscience that shall make
thee hate life ; it is thy Conscience and thy Memory, that shall
conjure before thee in the night-time, 'shadows and forms that
shall make thee tremble more than ten thousand of earth in bat-
tle array.!'
" If thou wouldst drink of the Lethean waters, know that
there is no virtue in that magic stream for de ds like thine.
I kill thee ?" continued Inez, with strange, solemn eloquence.
" Nay nay! these hands; that have closed the dead Empe-
ror's eyes, -this weary heart, that would have given its life-
blood to have seen its poor country blessed with such a ruler,
they are consecrated now to higher, holier deeds. I can go to
the Holy Order at Madrid now, with a soul given up to God !
for my last mission in Mexico, in the world, is accomplished.
I leave thee to. thy Conscience, thy Memory, - and thy God.
Farewell, - till we both meet the Emperor before the Eternal
Throne ! ".
Her long black dress swept across the oaken floor ; and
Colonel Lopez was alone again..
He started from his chair, and looked wildly about him, as
one coming suddenly face to. face with the light; and then
began again that restless treading to and fro ; his brow con-
tracted, his eyes bent upon the -floor, his hand now and then
passed through the masses of hair that fell over his forehead,
and again pressed upon his side, as if to stop the painful
throbbing of the heart within.

Miguel Lopez seemed to struggle with some terrible resolu-
tion that he was forming with himself. Now he stopped before
the arched window, threw open the casement, and through the
interlacing tendrils of the ivy looked out upon the night; an
again, he would turn suddenly away, and resume his walk. At
last he paused before the escritoire, and taking from his pocket
a small key, placed it in the lock. Doubtingly he stood for
some moments, turning it back and forth; and then, with sud-
den nerve, he opens;it, and reveals a set of drawers and little
partitions. He touches a secret spring, and a tiny door is
opened within, and hurriedly he takes out a small vial, and
seizing a wine-glass that stands upon the table, he pours out a
few drops of the liquid and raises it to his lips. He hesitates
and holds it up between himself and the light. It is ver
little; and yet Death lurks therein. "What is his life now but
a continued dishonor and disgrace? Gods ! he will rid him-
self of it ! He will be forgotten; they shall say Lopez was
brave enough to take his own life; there is some honor in
that ! "
Again he raises the glass, with its dark contents, to his lips;
turns it higher -is he brave enough to die ?  An instant more,
and there is a ,ringing sound of shivered crystal as the glass
strikes the floor, and the dark liquid is in drops upon the oaken
graining.
"No, no !" exclaimed the wretched man, as he staggered to
the chair near the table. "I cannot do it ! I could meet an
angry God; but I dare not, -cannot look into the  ale face
of the man whose blood is n my hands! Cursed be the hour
that I listened to the voice of Temptation ! Cursed be the hour
that gave me birth; and cursed be the gold that damned me! "
Great drops of moisture stood upon his brow. He bent his
head in agony upon the table. The moments and the hours of
the night-time passed unheeded. The lamp went out, and
the moonlight streamed in upon him through the open window,
and the only sound that anon broke the midnight silence was
the piteous wail from a traitor's heart, -.
"God help me! Ashamed to live, and afraid to die ! God
help me, God help me !"
"So writhes the mind remorse hath riven,
Unfit for earth, undoomed forheaven;
Darkness above, despair beneath;
Around it flames, Within it death 1

C 0TP1Y JE 1 ELS.            429


430             CROW   JEWELS.

CHAPTER LI.
OFTLY, over the turreted roof of the old Spanish con.
vent, whose towers are greened with the mossy touch
of age, and on whose stony walls the clinging ivy
creeps upward with the creeping years, fall the quiet
moonbeams; and beyond the misty -valley and the dew-covered
hills, gleam the spires and towers of the Spanish capital.
The world is at rest, and all is peace, save when the deep-
toned convent bell sends forth, from hour to hour, to those that
wake and watch, the solemn message that" Father Time is pass-
ing onward to Eternity.! "
The lights in the convent have all been extinguished. The
last prayer of the most devoted worshiper has been sent up;
the latest lingerer has left the little chapel, stolen noiselessly
through the dark corridors, and, with an atmosphere'about sanc-
tified by prayer, sleeps in holy calm.
But there is one in this sacred place who has not yet heard
the voice that, with its whisper, " Peace ! be still," is to bring
the great calm o'er the troubled waters of her soul.
High above the sleeping earth, the Sister Agatha throws
open the latticed window of her little cell, and leaning upon the
stone casement, looks forth upon the night, listening to the
sound of the midnight bell.
Does cloister-life, with.its freedom from contact with the world,
and its distr ting influences, rid the soul of all earthliness,
the heart ofil humanity?  Does the taking of holy vows give
to the heaven-bound pilgrim power to yield all fears and
hopes, break all human ties, and change all human into divine
love?  Is life within those holy walls an earnest of heaven,.
filled- with sanctified devotion and beatific consecration?
Surely dod does not grant such divine peace even to those who
give their life to His service. Earth-life must be ever the
same; and while this "mortal coil " hangs about the soul, so
long must it be visited however fenced around with goodness
and religion, by the griefs and woes, the thoughts and fancies,
akin to its humanity; and doubtless in the long years of life

given to sacred duty within monastic walls, there are hours, it
may be of sunlight, or at twilight,'when the soul's brightness is
clouded by the mist of earth-memories, and the thoughts steal
away,-
" To dreadful wastes, where footless fancies dwell
Among the fragments of the golden day."
As the Sister 'Agatha sits by the open window of her cell,
her hands clasped before her, the folds of her long veil half-
shadowing her face, the spirit of rest seems to *ander. farther
from her; and leaning her head against the stone casement as
the last sound of the bell dies away, she gives herself upato the
memories that link her to the past.
Her past ?  Ah ! few golden days had been given to her !
What had her life been?  A dream -a cheat -a bitter, bitter
mockery !
It had been two months since she and Anita had left Mexico.
Only two short months! and yet it seemed as many years since
she had placed the wreath of ivy and laurel -the lastiribute
that should ever rest upon the tomb of the ope whom slie had
loved with all the strength of her soul. She saw it now -that
crypt, where Victor Isolani sleeps. It had. been her trial task
to leave it, yet broken-spirited, crushed, and broken-hearted,
with all her idols shattered before her, she had. given that up
too. The stars in the Mexican sky would watch as tenderly as
those that shone over the hills of the Tyrol; qnd the trump
that should call the dead, would reach him there, just as surely
as it would burst the sepulchre that held his ancestors; and
though the sea should roll between them here, in heaven they
would not be divided. The Emperor would be brought back
to the Fatherland, and- rest among the Hapsburgs; but Inez
Gonzales left her dead resting where he had given his all.
They had crossed the ocean, she and. Anita; and she had
thought to make pilgrimage to Miramar before coming to Madrid;
had thought to look upon the face of her beloved Empress once
more in life; had thought it possible to say some word that
might call back the wandering fancy and wake up the sleeping
memory; but when she touched the shores of the Old World,
and heard how heavily God had laid his hand upon her, her
courage failed. It would be no use, and she shrank from the trial.
She could 'not -she would not, see her. Empress, her friend,
the beautiful, peerless Princess that had graced the Court of

4

CR0 WY JT WELS


432

CROWN JEWELS.

Mexico, lying low, blighted and drooping, a bruised reed that
did not 'lift its head.
So she and A.iita had come at once to Madrid, where there
was a brother well advanced in years, and many friends who
had not forgotten Auita, and who gave to Inez a welcome for
the sake of the proud Spanish blood that flowed, in her
veins.
At Madrid, Anita made her last effort to win her back to
the world, exhausted her last argument in the endeavor to in.
spire her with a new interest in life. It was in vain. Inez felt
that her mission was ended. All joy and hope had been killed
out of life for her, and she yearned to find the rest for her soul
that she believed came to those who walk in the paths of right-
eousness; and in accordance with her Catholic belief, to wear the
habit ofa Sister of Mercy was a high and holy privilege.
.Only a few weeks since, in the dark, vaulted chapel, before its
marble altar, with its suffering Christ, over which the burning
tapers threw a halo of light, before bishops and priests, in the
presence of the holy Sisters, and the many that came out from
Madrid to witness the ceremony, Inez had taken the holy vows
and assumed the penitential garb of a Sister of Mercy. Shem
said adieu to the pomps and vanities of the world, and goes forth
now, as Sister Agatha, only on- missions of mercy, " to lift up
those that do fall, to comfort and strengthen the weak-hearted,
to minister to the sick and wounded, whether in mind or
body."
She is not yet strong herself. Each day, there are battles
fought with - and not always victories won, over - her owl.
soul. The dark-robed Sisters look strangely and wonderingly, as
the Sister Agatha passes to and fro; and, as they catch the worn,
weary expression of the dark, lustrous eyes, those who know too
well th$ glance of orrow, have no need to hear the story of a
blighted life. Thefhave felt, too,, in the "long ago," the cruel
prickings of the thorns in the dusty paths of the world, and
turned, as this young Sister, into the shade, to wait the Master's
coming.
There is one older and more loving than the rest, - the Sister
Stanislaus, who, as she passes the novice at twilight, in the long
corridor, sometimes stops to greet her; and once she had pushed
aside the Sister Agatha's veil, and, as they two stood alone,
pressed a kiss upon her brow, and whispered. softly, -
" Patience, child I only a little longer here, and the rest will
come!"

I

C'ROWi'T JEWELS.

433

The Sister Agatha sits by the open -,window,' listening
to the set, slow bell, that, is ever tolling -in her heart. She
feels that before her life is truly given to her ,God, -before the
service that' she offers can be acceptable to Him, these mem-
ories must be given up,- these.repinings, this clinging to the
sweet remembrance of a human love, must pass. And yet it is
hard; hard, that she has left Victor- Iso1  ' behind, and now
must put him out. of her heart. The tears fall thick' and fast
upon her dark dress, her head droops upon the clasped hands,
and in broken utterance she iurmurs her last prayer for him,
as she gives up:his face, his voice, his memory.
" 0 Lamb of God, that takest away the sins of the world, grant
him eternal rest!"
- She has sunk upon her knees, and-the moonbeams rest upon
her bowed figure. There is a long,-tearful silence, wherein the
Sister Agatha wrestles with her own soul, as Israel of old with
the Angel of Lord.
There is but One from whom strength cometh ; and lifting he-
eyes, at last, towards the Heaven= where He dwelleth,- hungry
for God, hungry for rest and peace, she pours forth her anguish
before Him, in the passionate cry that He will not forget her,
unworthy though she be.
"The shadows of the convent towers
Slant down the sniowy sward,
Still creeping with the creeping hours
That lead me to my Lord.
Break up the heavens, 0 Lord i and far
Thro' all you starlight keen,
Draw me, thy bride, a glittering star,
In raiment white and clean I"
Unheard and unseen, the Angel of Mercy hovers above the
weeping suppliant., Tenderly he wipes the tears from her eyes,
and breathes into her soul, the "peace that passeth all ,under-
standing."
Obediently, humbly, and .faithfully will the Sister Agatha
- walk in the appointed path, waiting and watching, and when
the Death-Angel is seen in the distance, gladly will she rise up
and go forth to meet him, and lay her burden down at-his
feet.
The Kaiserstadt, the Imperial Capital of the Austrian Em
perors, has wakened-to a day of mourning.
-Still, calm, andzplaeid, the morning air is undisturbed. Light
fleecy clouds float lazily and dreamily across the blue sky, and-
19'

II


4ROWa JETL&amp;8                           C

the hush of the Sabbath pervades the streets usually so animated.
The frosts of Autumn have not yet chilled the flowers; nor
deadened, the leaves that make the Prater cheerful, and yet but
few wander through those winding paths that we have seen so
crowded.
The proud hearts of the Viennese are filled with sorrow;' and
as they move solemnly about, they exchange grief-speaking
glances that say, "Comes he thus, my friend ! comes he thus ! "
Yes, he has come ! Their Prince, who, but a few years since,
went out from their midst, a crown upon his noble brow, and
his heart swelling with mingled pride and hope, has been
brought back to them, murdered out of the world by those to
whom he would have given the labor of his life.
The friend of his youth, the companion of his seaman's life,
Admiral Tegethoff, had waited with his ship in the Mexican
waters, until Humanity found voice among the conquerors of
Mexico ; and had borne the body of his Prince, yielded at last
by Mexican magnanimity, across the. sea. For three days, the
body had lain in state at the grand Cathedral of St. Stephen's;
and to-day, the requiem mass is to be offeed for the repose of
his soul; and then. forever done with the things of earth, with
all his dreams of greatness, Maximilian of Austria, the noble
Prince, the Christian ruler, the hero, will be laid beside his*
ancestors, to moulderinto dust.
From the balconies and windows that erst proclaimed, by
gay adornings, the bridal of their Prince, are waving now the
sombre hangings that tell of grief and woe ; while sadly and
solemnly tolling, the bells of the Great Cathedral are echoed
from'the lesser belfries; and the invisible, yet all-pervading
Spirit of Sadness whispers in tones that are borne around and
adown the quiet streets, "Come to prayer!"
Dourner,, divest thy heart of private grief: Sybarite, forget
the world its luxuries, its pleasures; leave behind its baubles,
its bravado, its blazonry,-and come to prayer !
Ambition, put away thy dreams of glory and renown; call
back 1hy fancy from the glittering, cheating vision of a future
that shall never come ; hush.the syren voice of Fame, and come
to pray beside the bier of Honor, Truth, and Fidelity!1
Maiden, wife, mother, 'stay the 'beatings of thy happy heart,
and come to pray for the heart-crushed, brain-weary, desolate
widow at Miramar;. who, through the long years' that are to
conie floating on-the sea of Time, shall calling vain, shall watch
in vain, for the coming of'the one who in life held' her mind,

her heart, her soul. God be m reiful unto her, and keep her
under the shadow of His wing !
They have gathered in the  reat Cathedral; high and lw,
rich and poor; a       ops. and priests, in saintly robes;
the royal fath , and the mourning mother, who had seen
their Spartan he o brought back dead, yet borne upon a shield
with proudest 'cription that ever testified to the renown of
a Hapsburg; the Imperial brother, who, as he sits before the
upraised catafalque, whereon, glittering through the heavy
wreaths of funereal cedar, lies the crown that should never more
press his brow, the sword so: heroically wielded on the Aztee
plains, useless now, --as the subdued softening rays of; the em-
purpling sun light up the ,golden cross, and the towering wax-
lights feebly flicker o'er the whole -Francis Joseph remembers
the brother before him, as the companion of his boyish days,
the Maximilian of his youth, the noble, trusting :spirit that
was bound by cords of cable strength to his own; thinks of him
then, and thinks of him now, extended within that catafalque,
in a calm and lifeless sleep, from which naught but the trump
of the Archangel will rouse him,-he bows' his Imperial head,
and cries out in his soul, in voiceless agony, the same bitter
words,-" Comes he. thus ! comes he thus! "
Softly, softly through the aisles and chancel, into the lofty
nave, steal the resonant sounds of the organ; now swelling and
deepening, and rising in heavenly melody, now softening into
a wail as piteous and despairing as the echo of the night-wind
o'er the Eolian harp.
If aught inanimate e'er grieves for the departed brave, it is
the sound of music that wakes up that grief. The dirge-like
notes of the requiem find their way to .hearts hardened and
stony; and as the low tones of the "Miserere " fall upon the ear,
pleading more powerfully than human voice can 'do, "Lord
have mercy, Lord have mercy!"- eyes all unused to tears
feel them welling up from the heart. As Moses struck the
rock of old, and the healing waters came,,so at many a sunset
hour, in the dusk and. gloom of some house of prayer, has the
voice of the golden reeds found an echo in human hearts, tiat
had well-nigh closed the door on all save spirits dark and evil;
and that echo has rung ceaselessly, hauntingly, within the
secret chambers, till the soul has shaken off the fetters. of Sis
and risen up strong and true.
The music, the. chanting, the prayers for the repose of thQ
Prince Maximilian are ended. The people rise up; and as they

484

CIAO tiPN JE,6149

435

.


--                        .0RWNJEWELA.
go out, passing the shrouded- catafalque, they solemnly bow
themselves, and utter each his- prayer, -" ]May he rest it
peace !,"
To-morrow, the remains are to be laid away in the Church of
the' Capuchins; where, with Margaret of Spain, with Joseph of
Austria, with the young'Napoleon, in whom mingled the blood
of the   onapartes and the Hapsburgs,     with these, and many
others of his regal :house, the Emperor of Mexico shall rest in
peace, till God shall call hixi,.and shall place on his head, in the
presence of those who wronged him;, a crown whose, diamonds
shall glitter through all the countless ages of Eternity!1
On :earth the last tribute .has been paid.
He is gone ! ashes to ashes; dust to dust!
",Gone; but nothing can bereave him
of theforce he made his own
Being here;  and we believe him
Something far advanced in state,
And that he wears a truer crown
Than any wreath that mani can weave him.
But speak no more of his renown,
Lay your earthly fancies down,
And in the vast cathedral leave hun,
God accept him, Ohrist receive hita"
THE END.

4-

t
;, I
~
a
frf
" .
.-r'    -
"                                    f -
.(      t
"  "                              ,+ ,
f
I               "                    ,  f  "    '
r                                         ,    -


  
             
         
       
   
