
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Thirteen Good Stories From Old and New .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8019
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Thirteen good stories from Old and new 
            
               [OLD AND N~w SERIES, No. I.J

p
THIRTEEN GOOD STORIES
FROM
OLD AND NEW.

DEVIL PUZZLERS,
THE POLE'S STORY.
IMPROVISATORE.
TWO PRINCES.
IN THE WIDE WORLD.
REBECCA'S MA.

WHAT HAPPENED TO THE KHAN.
COMPANION OF PARADISE.
TARTAR FAIRY TALE.
SPOONS IN A WHERRY.
WAVELINE.
NIGHT OF TERROR.
HOUSEKEEPER'S STORY.

THE BEST MAGAZINE.
Ask your Newsma~sz for OLD AND NEW.
OLD AND NEW OFFICE,
143. WASHINGTON ST4~EET, BOSTON, MASS. ;~' A

I'..


WHITE'S SPECIALTY
~\.

(1

IOU DYSFEPSIA.

This is the only prompt, efficient, and safe master of such symptoms as loss of
appetite, heartburn, palpitation of the heart, dizziness, sleeplessness, melancholy,
costiveness, wind, mental and physical debility, as well as many others which if
neglected will soon place "the house we live in" beyond the reach of any remedy.
Letter from a leading Al Taseacleuseits Lawyer and Politician.
AnaL, 1872.
To H. G. PARKER, Esq., Editor Saturday Evening Gazette:
Dz&amp;n P-: You ask me concerning WIIIi'E'S SPI~CIALTY FOR DYSPEP-
SIA. I am free to say that though 1 gave it a trial without the slightest faith, I
have been surprised by its good results. I have suffered martyrdom from Dyspep-
sia for years. It has afflicted my stomach, any head, my spirits, and has unfitted
me for intellectual labor. It has sometimes frightened me into the belief that I was
dying of consumption. I did everything. I consulted four of the mn3st skilful phy-
sIcians in Boston, without relief. I travelled through Europe, and still tile terror
followed me. On my return home I trIed one bottle of White's 8~:eciaIty for Dys.
pepsia. It gave me appetite and cheerfulness; relieved pain in the bowels and
chest; enabled me to enjoy society, amid freed any head from confusion. A second
bottle did more than the first; a third bottle restored inc fully to the work of my
office, and a fourth bottle made inc as ~vell as when I left college. I believe in
WHITE'S SPECIALTY k'OIt DYSPEPSIA as one of the benefactions of our time.
J. S. A.
From the Boston Journal.
"Dvsrzt'sIA. White's Specialty for this aggravating complaint has been
thoroughly tested by thousands who have been benefited by it, and are willing to
testify to its efficacy."     _____________
From the Congregational&amp;st (Boston).
"Wmurat's SnccmALrv ron DYSPEPSIA, from pure merit and virtue alone, is fast
overtaking, and bids fair to exceed, in its sale, nil the old popular medicInes of the
day."                         ____________
H. G. WHITE, L~ropriotor,
Casnbridgeport, Mams~.
JOlt SALE BY
JOHN F. HENRY, New York~ FRENCH, RICHARDS &amp; CO., Philadelphia.
VAN SCHAAK, STEPHENSON &amp; REID, Cnicago.
JOHN D. PARK, Cincinnati, 0.       BELL &amp; BROWN, Nevada City, Cal.
Price, One Dollar per Bottle.

I

SOLD B~" .A.LL DRUGGISTS.
9

U

Devil-P uzzlers.

3

DEVIL -3? U Z Z L ER S.
BY YREP. B. PERYINS.

IT will not do at all to disbelieve
in the existence of a personal devil.
It is not so many years ago that one
of our profoundest divines remarked
with indignation upon such disbelief~
"No such person?" cried the doctor
with energy. "Don't tell inc 1 I can
hear his tail snap and crack about
amongst the churches any day I"
And if the enemy is, in truth, still
as vigorously active among the sons
of God as he was in the days of Job
(that is to say, in the time of Solo-
mon, when, as the critics have found
out, the Book of Job was written),
then surely still more is he vigilant
and sly in his tricks for foreclosing
his mortgages upon the souls of the
wicked.
And once more: still more than
ever is his personal appearance prob-
able in these latter days. The ever-
lasting tooting of the wordy Cum-
ming has proclaimed the end of all
things for a quarter of a century;
and he will surely see his prophecy
fulfilled if he can only keep it up long
enough. But, though we discredit
the sapient Second-Adventist as to
the precise occasion of the diabolic
avatar, has there not been a strange
coincidence between his noisy decla-
rations, and other evidences of an ap-
proximation of the spiritual to the
bodily sphere of life? Is not this
same quarter of a century that of the
Spiritists? Has it not witnessed the
development of Od? And of clair..~
voyance? And have not the doctrines
of ghosts, and re-appearancus of the
dead, and of messages from them,
riben into a prominence entirely new,
and into a coherence and semblance

at least of fact and fixed law such as.
was never known before? Yea, verily.
Of all times in the world's history,
to reject out of one's beliefs either
good spirits or bad, angelology or dia-
bology, chief good being, or chief bad
being, this is the most improper.
Dr. Hicok was trebly liable to the
awful temptation, under which he had
assuredly fallen, over and above the
fact that he was a prig, which makes
one feel the more glad that he was so
handsomely come up with in the
end; such a prig that everybody who
knew him, invariably called him (when
he wasn't by) Ilicok-alorum. This
charming surname had been conferred
on him by a crazy old fellow with
whom he once got into a dispute.
Lunatics have the most awfully tricky
ways of dodging out of pinches in rea-
soning; but Hicok knew too much to
know that; and so he acquired his
fine title to teach him one thing more.
Trebly liable, we said. The three
reasons are, -
1. He was foreign-born.
2. He was a Seotchman.
3. He was a physician and sur-
geon.
The way in which these causes
operated was as follows (I wish it
were allowable to use Artemus Ward's
curiously satisfactory vocable "thus-
ly :"like Mrs. Wiggle's smoothing
sirup, it "supplies a real want") : -
Being foreign-born, Dr. Hicok had
not the unfailing moral stamina of a
native American, and therefore was
comparatively easily beset by sin
Being, secondly; a Seotchman, he was
not only thoroughly conceited, with a
conceit as immovable as the BassRock,

4


4                 ~~~~Devil-P uzzlerse.                                                            Dei-uze8

just as other folks sometimes are, bu
in particular, he was perfectly sure
his utter mastery of ~metaphysics, 14
gic and dialectics, or, as he used
call it, with a snobbish Teutonicaliz~
tion, dialektik. Now, in the latter tw
the Scotch can do something, but i
metaphysics they are simply imbecile
which quality, in the inscrutabi
providence of God, has been joined
with an equally complete conviction
of the exact opposite. Let not man
therefore, put those traits asunder,
not so much by reason of any divine
ordinance, as because no man in hii
senses would try to convince a Scotch
man,-or anybody else, for that ma1~
ter.
Thirdly, he was a physician and
surgeon; and gentlemen of this pro.
session are prone to become either
thoroughgoing materialists, or else
implicit and extreme Calvinistic Pres-
byterians, "of the large blue kind."
And they are, moreover, positive,
hard-headed, bold, and self-confident.
So they have good need to be. Did
not Majendie say to his students,
"Gentlemen, disease is a subject
which physicians know nothing
about?'~
So the doctor both believed in the
existence of a personal devil, and be-
lieved in his own ability to get the
upper hand of that individual in a
tournament of the wits. Ah, he
learned better by terrible experience!
The doctor was a dry-looking little
chap, with sandy hair, a freckled face,
small gray eyes, and aWsurd white eye-
brows and eyelashes, which made him
look as if he had finished off his toilet
with just a light flourish from the
dredging-box. He was erect of car-
riage, and of prompt, ridiculousalert..
ness of step and motion, very much
like that of Major Wellington De
Boots. And his face commonly wore

.t, akindofcomplacentserenitysuch~
f the Hindoos ascribe to Buddha. I
~- know a little snappish dentist's-goods
0 dealer up town, who might be mis-
L- taken for Hicok-alorum any day.
,   Well, well - what had the doctor
a done? Why- it will sound absurd,
probably, to some unbelieving peo-
o pIe, - but really Dr. Hicok confessed
I the whole story to me hirnself: lie had
a made a bargain with the evil one!
, And indeed lie was such an uncom-
monly disagreeable-looking fellow,
tlra1~, unless on some such hypothesis,
itis impossible to imagine how he could
- have prospered as he did. lie gained
- patients, and cured them too; made
money; invested successfully; bought
I a brown-stone front, - a house, not a
wiglet, -then bought other real es-
tate; began to put Iris name on char-
ity subscription lists, and to be made
vice-president of various things.
Chiefest of all, - it must have
been by some superhuman aid that
Dr. Hicok married his wife, the then
arid present Mrs. Hicok. Dear me I
I have described the doctor easily
enough. But how infinitely more
difficult it is to delineate Beauty than
the Beast: did you ever think of it?
All I can say is, that she is a very
lovely womini now; and she must
have been, when the doctor married
her, one of the loveliest creatures that
ever lived, -a lively, graceful, bright-
eyed brunette, ivitli thick fine long
black hair, pencilled delicate eye-
brows, little pink ears, thin high nose,
great astonished brown eyes, perfect
teeth, a little rosebud of a mouth, arid
a figure so extremely beautiful that
nobody believed she did not pad -
hardly even the artists who - those
of them at least who work faithfully in
the life-school - are the very best
judges extant of truth in costume arid
personal beauty. But, furthermore,

sIre was good, with the innocent un-
conscious goodness of a sweet little
child; and of all feminine charms, -
even beyond her supreme grace of
motion, - she possessed the sweetest,
the most resistless, - a lovely voice;
whose tones, whether in speech or
Bong, were perfect in sweetness, and
with a strange penetrating sympa..
thetic quality, and at the same time
with the most wonderful half-de-
laying completeness of articulation
and modulation, as if she enjoyed the
sound of hi&amp;r own music. No doubt she
did; but it was unconsciously, like a
bird. The voice was so sweet, the
great loveliness and kindness of soul
it expressed were so deep, that, like
every exquisite beauty, it rayed forth
a certain sadness within the pleasure
it gave. It awakened infinite, indis-
tirict emotions of beauty arid perfec-
tion, -infinite longings.
It's of no use to tell me that such
a spirit - sIre really ought riot to be
note(1 so low down as amongst hu-
miami beings - that such a spirit
could have been made glad by be-
coming the yoke-fellow of Hicok-
alorum, by influences exclusively hu-
luau. No! - I don't believe it - I
won't believe it - it can't be believed.
I can't convince you, ~f course, for
you don't know her; but if you
did, along ~vithi the rest of the evidence,
arid if your knowledge was like mine,
thmat from the testimony of my own eyes
arid ears and judgment, - you would
kn~nv, just as I do, that the doctor's
~ of Iris wife was tIre keystone
of the aich of completed proof oii which
I found my absolute assertion that he
had made that bargain.
He certainly hind! A most char-
acteristic transaction too; for while,
after the usual fashion, it was agreed
by tIre "party of the first part," -
viz., Old Scratch, -that Dr. Hicok

K

should succeed in whatever he under'.
took during twenty years, and by the
party of the second part, that at the
end of that time the D - should
fetch him in manner and form as is
ordinarily provided, yet there was
added a peculiar clause. This was,
that, when the time caine for the
doctor to depart, he should be left
entirely whole and unharmed, in
mind, body, and estate, provided he
could put to the Devil three con-
secutive questions, of which either
one should be such that that cunning
spirit could not solve it on the spot.
So for twenty years Dr. Hicok
lived and prospered, and waxed very
great. He did not gain one single
pound avoirdupois however, which
may perchance seem strange, but is
the most natural thing in the world.
Who ever saw a little, dry, wiry, sandy,
freckled man, with ivhiite eyebrows,
that did grow fat? And, besides, the
doctor spent all his leisure time in
hunting up his saving trinity of ques-
tions; and hard study, above all for
such a purpose, is as sure an anti-fat-
tenner as Banting.
He knew the Scotch metaphysicianis
by heart already, ox-officio as it were;
but he very early gave up the idea of
trying to fool the Devil with such
mud-pie as that. Yet be it under-
stood, that he found cause to except
Sir William Hamilton from the mud-
dle-headed crew. He chewed a good
while, and pretty hopefully, upon the
Quantification of the Predicate; but
lie had to give that up too, when he
found out how small and how dry a
meat rattled within the big, noisy
nut-shell. He read Saint Thomas
Aquinas, and Peter Dens, and a cart-
load more of old casuist; Ilomanist
and Protestant.
He exhausted the learning of the
Development Theory. He studied and

A

5

Devil-Puzzlers.


6                        Devit
experimented up to the existing lbs
its of knowledge on the question o:
the Origin of Life, and then poked ou
alone, as much farther as he could, in
to the ineffable black darkness tha
is close at the end of our noses oi
that, as well as most other questions
He hammered his way through tin
whole controversy on the Freedom ol
the Will. He zflastered the wholi
works of Mr. Henry C. Carey on on
side, and of two hundred and fifty
English capitalists and American
college professors on the other, on
the question of Protection or Free
trade. He made, with vast pains,
an extensive collection of the ques..
tions proposed at debating societies
and college-students' societies with
long Greek names. The last effort
was a failure. Dr. Hicok had got
the idea, that, from the spontane-
ous activity of so many free young
geniuses, many wondrous and sugges-
tive thoughts would be born. Having,
however, tabulated his collection, he
found, that, among all these innumer-
able gymnasia of intellect, there were
only seventeen questions debated!
The doctor read me a curious little
memorandum of his conclusions on
this unexpected fact, which will per-
haps be printed some day.
He investigated many other things
too; for a sharp-witted little Presby-
terian Scotch doctor, working -to cheat
the Devil out of his soul, can accom-
plish an amazing deal in twenty years.
He even went so far as to take into
consideration mere humbugs; for, if
he could cheat the enemy with a hum-
bug, why not? The only pain in that
case, would be the mortification of
having stooped to an inadequate ad-
versary, - a foreman unworthy of his
steel. So he weighed such queries as
theold scholastic brocard, An ckimaircs
*oninan~s in vacuo, decorat secundas

-Puzzlers.

intentiones? and that beautiful moot
~ point wherewith Sir Thomas More
t silenced the challenging schoolmen
- of Binges, An averia carrucw captors
t in vet itonamio sint irreple4!dbilia?
1 He glanced a little at the subject
of conundrums; and among the chips
from his workshop is a really clever
* theory of conundrums. He has a clas-
sification and discussion of them, all
his own, and quite ingenious and
satisfactory, which divides them into
answerable and unanswerable, and,
under each of these, into resemblant
and differential.
For instance: let the four classes
be distinguished with the initials of
those four terms, A. R., A. D., U. U.,
and U. D.; you will find that the
Infinite Possible Conundrum (so to
speak) can always be reduced under
one of those four heads. Using syma-
bols, as they do in discussing syllo-
gism,- indeed, by the way, a conun-
drum is only a jocular variation in
the syllogism, an intentional fallacy
for fun (read Whately's Logic, Book
III., and see if it isn't so), - using
syiYmbols, I say, you have these four
"figures:
I. (A. B.) Why is A like B? (an-
swerable): as, Why is a gentleman
who gives a young lady a young dog,
like a person who rides rapidly up
hill? A. Because he gives a gallop
up (gal-a-pup).
Sub-variety; depending upon a
violation of something like the "prin-
ciple of excluded middle," a very
fallacy of a fallacy; such as the an-
cient ~nigger~minstrel~~ case, Why
is an elephant like a brick? A. Be-
cause neither of them can climb a
tree.
II. (A. D.) Why is A unlilo B?
(answerable) usually put thus: What
is the difference between A and B?
(Figure 1., if worded in the same

Devil-I
style, would become, "What is the
similarity between A and B?): as,
What is the difference between the
old United-States Bank and the Ful-
ton Ferry-boat signals in thick
weather? A. One is a fog whistle,
and the other is a Whig fossil.
Ill. (U. U.) Why is A like B?
(unanswerable): as Charles Lamb's
well-known question, Is that your
own hare, or a wig?
LV. (U. D.) Why is A unlike B?
(unanswerable): i. e., What is the
difference, &amp;c., as, What is the dif-
f~rence between a fac simile and a
sick family; ot between hydraulics and
and raw-hide licks?
But let me not diverge too far into
frivolity~ All the hopefully difficult
questions, Dr. Hicok set down and
classified. He compiled a set of rules
on the subject, and indeed developed
a whole philosophy of it, by which
he struck off, as soluble, question~ or
classes of them. Some he thought
out himself; others were now and
then answered in some learned book,
that led the way through the very
heart of one or another of his biggest
mill-stones.
So it was really none too much
time that lie had; and, in truth,-he
did not actually decide upon his three
questions, until just a week before
the fearful day when lie was to put
them.
It came at last, as every day of
reckoning surely comes; and Dr.
I [icok, memorandum in hand, sat in
his comfortable library about three
o'clock on one beautiful warm sum-
mer afternoon, as pale as a sheet, his
heart thumping away like Mr.
~rupp~s biggest steam-hammer ~at
Essen, his mouth and tongue parched
and feverish, a pitcher of cold water
at hand from which he sipped and
sipped, though it seemed as if his

~uzzlers.                       7
throat repelled it into "the glohulat
state," or dispersed it into steam, as
red-hot iron does. Around him were
the records of the vast army of doubt..
ers and quibblers in whose works he
had heen hunting, as a traveller labors
through a jungle, for the deepest
doubts, the most remote inquiries.
Sometimes, with that sort of hardi-
hood, rather than reason, which makes
a desperate man try to believe by his
will what he longs to know to be true,
Dr. Hicok would say to himself, "I
know I've got him!" And then his
heart would seem to fall out of him,
it sank so suddenly, and with so deadW
a faintness, as the other side of his
awful case loomed before him, and he
thought, "But if-.?" He would
not finish tlwt question; he could not.
The furthest point to which he
could bring himself was, that of a
sort of icy outer stiffening of ac-
quiescence in the inevitable.
There was a ring at the street-door.
The servant brought in a card, on a
silver salver.
Mr. Apollo Lyon.
"Show the gentleman in," said the
doctor. He spoke with difficulty;
for the effort to control his own ner-
vous excitement was so immense an
exertion, that he hardly had the self-
command and muscular energy e~ven
to articulate.
The servant returned, and ushered
into the library handsome, youngish,
middle-aged and middle-sized gentle-
man, pale, with large melancholy
black eyes, and dressed in the most
perfect and quiet style.
The doctor arose,- and greeted his
visitor with a degree of steadiness


8         ~~~~Devil-Puzzlers-                             DvZTzle89

and politeness that did him the great-
est credit.
"How do you do, sir?" he said:
"I am happy" - but it struck him
that he wasn't, and he stopped short.
"Very right, my dear sir," replied
the guest, in a voice that was musi-
cal but perceptibly sad, or rather pa-
tient in tone. "Very right; how
hollow those formulas are! I hate all
forms and ceremonies! But I am
glad to see you, doctor. Now, that
is really the fact."
No doubt! "Divil doubt him!" as
an Irishman would say. So is a cat
glad to see a mouse in its paw.
Something like these thoughts arose
in the doctor's mind; he smiled as
affably as he could, and requested the
visitor to be seated.
"Thanks!" replied he, and took
the chair which the doctor moved up
to the table for him. He placed his
hat and gloves on the table. There
was a brief pause, as might happen
if any two friends sat down at their
ease for a chat on matters and things
in general. The visitor turned over
a volume or two that lay on the
table.
"The Devil," he read from one of
them- "H is Origin, Greatness, and
Decadence. By the Rev. A. R4ville,
D.D."
"Ah!" he commented quietly.
"A Frenchman, I observe. If it
had been an Englishman, I should
fancy he wrote the book for the
sake of the rhyme in the title. Do
you know, doctor, I fancy that in-
credulity of his, will substitute one
dash for the two periods in the rever-
end gentleman's degree! I know no
one greater condition of success in
s~ne lines of operation, than to have
oil's existence thoroughly disbelieved
m.
The doctor forced himself to reply

"I hardly know how I came to have
the book here. Yet he does make
out a pretty strong case. I confess
I would like to be certified that he is
righL Suppose you allow yourself to
be convinced?'~ And the poor fellow
grinned: it couldn't be called a smile.
"Why, really, I'll look into it.
I've considered the point though, not
that I'm sure I could choose. And
you know, as the late J. Milton very
neatly observed, one would hardly
like to lose one's intellectual being,
"though full of pain;'~ and he
smiled, not unkindly but sadly, and
then resumed: "A Bible too. Very
good edition. I remember seeing it
stated that a professional person made
it his business to find errors of the
press in one of the Bible Society's
editions, -this very one, I think; and
the only one he could discover was a
single "wrong font." Very accurate
work - very!~~
He had been turning over the
leaves indifferently as he spoke, and
laid the volume easily back. "Cu-
rious old superstition that," he re-
marked, "that certain personages
were made uncomfortable by this
work! And he gave the doctor a
glance, as much as to ask, in the most
delicate manner in the world, "Did
you put that there to scare me with?"
I think the doctor blushed a little.
He had not really expected, you know,
-still, in case there should be any
prophylactic influence -? NQ harm
done, in any event; and that was pre-
cisely the observation made by the
guest.
"No harm done, my dear fellow ! ~
he said, in his calm, quiet, musical
voice. No good, either, I imagine
they both of them added to them-
selves.
There is an often repeated observa-
tion, that people under the pressure of

an immeasurable misery or agony
seen to take on a preternaturally
sharp vision for minute details, such
as spots in the carpet, and ~prigs in
tI e wall-paper, threads on a sleeve,
and the like. Probably the doctor
felt this influence. He had dallied a
little, too, with the crisis; and so did
hisvisitor,-from different motives, no
doubt; and, as he sat there, his eye
fell on the card that had just been
brought to him.
"I beg your pardonm~ he said; "but
might I ask a question about your
card?"
"Most certainly, doctor: what is
it?"
"Why - it's always a liberty to
ask questions abont a gentleman's
name, and we Scotchmen are particu-
larly sensitive on th~ point; but I have
always been interested in the general
subject of patronomatology."
The other, by a friendly smile and
a deprecating wave of the hand, re-
newed his welcome to the doctor's
question.
"Wel!, it's this: How did you
come to decide upon that form of
name, - Mr. Apollo Lyon?"
"Oh! just a little fancy of mine.
It's a newly-invented variable card, I
believe they call it. There's a tem-
porary ink arrangement. It struck
me it was liable to abuse in case of an
assumption of aliases; but perhaps
that's none of my business. You can
easily take off the upper name, and
another one comes out underneath.
I'm always interested in inventions.
See."
And as the text, "But they have
sought out many inventions," passed
through Dr. Hicok's mind, the other
drew forth a white handkerchief,
and, rubbing the card in a careless
sort of way, laid it down before
the doctor. Perhaps the strain on the

poor doctor's nerves was unsteadying
him by this time: he may not have
been right; but he seemed to see only
one name, as if compounded from the
former two.
Apohlyon.
And it seemed to be in red ink in-
stead of black; and the lines seemed
to creep nnd throb and glow, as if the
red were the red of fire, instead of ver-
milion. But red is an extremely try-
ing color to the eyes. However, the
doctor, startled as he was, thought
best not to raise any further queries,
and only said, perhaps with some dif-
ficulty, "Very curious, I'm sure I"
"Well, doctor," said Mr. Lyon, or
whatever his name was, "I don't
want to hurry you, but I suppose we
might as well have our little business
over?"
"Why, yes. I suppose you
wouldn't care to consider any question
of compromises or substitutes?"
"I fear it's out of the question,
really," was the reply, most kindly in
tone, but with perfect distinctness
There was a moment's silence. It
seemed to Dr. Hicok as if the beat-
ing of his heart must fill the room,
it struck so heavily, and the blood
seemed to surge with so loud a rush
through the carotids up past his ears.
"Shall I be found to have gone off
with a rush of blood to the head?"
he tlmc~ght to himself. But- it can
very ohen be done by a resolute ef-
fort-' ,~ gathered himself together as
it were, and with one powerful exertion
mastered his disorder nerves. Thea
he lifted his memorandum, gave one
glance at the sad, calm face opposite
him, and spoke.

8

9

Devil-Puzzlers.


to                       Devil-a
"You know they're every once in
differences know; but it seems to me
a while explaining a vote, us they call
it, in Congress. It don't make any
should put you more fully in
of my meaning, if I should
word or two, about the rca-
visitor               usual
pleasant acquiescence.
I am aware,~~ said Dr. ilicok,
that my selection would seem thor-
oughly commonplace to most people.
Yet nobody knows better than you
do, my dear sir, that the oldest ques-
tions are the newest. The same vi-
tality which is so strong in them, as
to raise them as soon as thought be-
gins, is infinite, and maintains them
as long as thought endures. Indeed,
I may say to you frankly, that it is
by no means on novelty, but rather
on antiquity, that I rely."
The doctor's hearer bowed with an
air of approving interest. "Very
justly reasoned," he observed. The
doctor went on,
"I have, I may say,-and under the
circumstances I shall not be suspected
of conceit, - made pretty much the
complete circuit of unsolved problems.
They class exactly as those questions
do which we habitually reckon as
solved: under the three subjects to
which they relate,- God, the intelli-
gent creation, the unintelligent crea-
tion. Now, I have selected my ques-
tions accordingly, - omie for each of
those divisions. Whether I have suc-
ceeded in satisfying the conditions
necessary will appear quickly. But
you see that I have not stooped to
any quibbling, or begging either. I
have sought to protect myself by the
honorable use of a masculine reason.~~
"Your observations interest me
greatly," remarked the audience.
"Not the less so, that they are so as-

('uzZler8.
curately coincident with my own ha-
bitual lines of thought, - at least, so
far ns I can judge from what you
have said. Indeed, suppose you had
called upon me to help youyrepare in-
soluble problems. I was bimnd, I sup-
pose, to comply to the best of my abil-
ity; and, if I had done so, those state-
ments of yours are thus far the very
preface I supplied - I beg your par-
don -should have supplied - you
with. I fancy I could almost state the
questions. Well?" -
All this was most kind and compli-
mentary; but somehow it did not en-
courage the doctor in the least. Ho
even fancied that lie detected a sneer,
as if~l:is interlocutor had been saying,
"Flutter away, old bird! That was
my bait that you have been feeding
on: you're safes en~uglm; it is my net
that holds you."
".Fb'st Question," said Dr. Hicok,
with steadiness: "Reconcile the fore-
knowledge and the fore-ordination of
God with the free will of man?"
"I thought so, of course," remarked
the other. Then lie looked straight
into the doctor's keen little gray eyes
with his deep melancholy black ones,
and raised his slender forefinger.
"Most readily. The reconciliation is
your own conscience, doctor! Do
what you know to he right, and you
will find that there is nothing to rec-
oncile, - that you and your Maker
have no debates to settle!"
The words were spoken with a
weighty solemnity and conviction
that were even awful. The doctor
had a conscience, though he had
found himself practically forced, for
the sake of success, to use a good deal
of constraint with it, - in fact, to lock
it up, as it were, in a private mad-
house, on an unfounded charge of lu-
nacy. But the obstinate thing would
not die, and would not lose its wits;

and now all of a sudden, and from
the very last qitarter where it was to
be expected, came a summons before
whose intensity of just requirement
no bolts could stand. The doctor's
conscience walked out of her prison,
and came straight up to the field of
battle, and said, -
"Give up the first question."
And he obeyed.
"I confess ~ he said. "But how
could I have expected a great basic
truth both religiously and psycholo-
gically so, from - from you?"
"Ah I my dear sir," was the reply:
"you have erred in that line of
thought, exactly as many others have.
The truth is one and the same, to God,
man, and devil."
"Second Question," said Dr. Hic-
ok. "Reconcile the development
theory, connection of natural selection
aiid sexual selection, with the respon-
sible immortality of the soul."
"Unquestionably," assented the
other, as if to say, "Just as I ex-
pected."
"No theory of creation has any
logical connection with any doctrine
of immortality. What was the mo-
tive of creation? - that would be a
question I If you had asked me that!
But time question, 'Where did men
come from?' has no bearing on the
question, 'Have they any duties now
that they are here?' The two are
reconciled, because they do not differ.
You can't state any inconsistency be-
tween a yard measure and a fifty-six
pound weight."
The doctor nodded; he sat down;
lie took a glass of water, and pressed
his hand to his heart. "Now,
then," he said to himself, "once
more! If I have to stand this fifteen
minutes I shall be in some other
world!"
The door from the inner room

11

opened; and Mrs. Ilicok came singing
in, carrying balanced upon her pretty
pink fore-finger something or other
of an airy bouquet-like fabric. Upon
thisshe waslooking with much delight.
"See, dear,!" she said: "how per-
fectly lovely!"
Both gentlemen started, and the
lady started too. She had not known
of the visit; and she had not, until
this instant, seen that her husband
was not alone.
Dr. 1-licok, of course, had never
given her the key to his skeleton-
closet; for lie was a shrewd man. He
loved her too; and he thought he
had provided for her absence dur-
ing the ordeal. Sue had executed
her shopping with unprecedented
speed.
Why the visitor started, would be
difficult to say. 1~erlxaps her voice
startled him. The happy music in it
was enough like a beautified duplicate
of his o~vn thrilling sweet tones, to
have made him acknowledge her for
a sister, - from heaven. He started,
at any rate.
"Mr. Lyon, my wife," said the
doctor, somewhat at a loss. Mr. Lyon
bowed, and so did the lady.
"I beg your pardon, gentlemen, I
am sure," she said. "I did not know
you were busy, dear. There is a
thunder-shower coming up. I drove
home just in season."
"Oh! -only a little wager, about
some ~ said the doctor.
Perhaps he may be excused for his
fib. He did not want to annoy her
unnecessarily.
"Oh, do let me know I" she said,
with much eagerness. "You know
how I enjoy them!'~
"Well," said the doctor, "not ex-
actly the ordinary kind. I was to
puzzle my friend here with one ont
of three questions; and he hiss beaten

.Devil-Puzzlers.


12                        Devil-.
me in two of them already. I've but
one more
"Only one?" she asked, with a
smile. "What a bright man your
friend must be! I thought nobody
could puzzle you, dear. Stay; let
me ask the other question."
Both the gentlemen started again:
it was quite a surprise.
"But are you a married man, Mr,
Lyon?" she asked, with a blush.
"No, madam," was the reply, with
a very graceful bow, - "I have a
mother, but no wife. Permit me to
say, that, if I could believe there was
a duplicate of yourself in existence,
I would be as soon as possible."
"Oh, what a gallant speech!" said
the lady. "Thank you, sir, very
much;" and she made him a pretty
little courtesy. "Then lam quite sure
of my question, sir. Shall I, dear?"
The doctor quickly decided. "I
am done for, any how,~~ he reflected.
"I begin to see that the old villain
put those questions into my head
himself. He hinted as much. I
don't know but I'd rather she would
ask it. It's better to have her kill
me, I guess, than to hold out the
carving-knife to him myself.~~
"With all my heart, my dear,"
said the doctor, "if Mr. Lyon con-
sents."
Mr. Lyon looked a little disturbed;
but his manner was perfect, as he re-
plied that he regretted to seem to dis-
oblige, but that he feared the condi-
tions of their little bet would not al-
low it."
"Beg your pardon, I'm sure, for
being so uncivil," said the lively little
beauty, as she whispered a few words
in her husband's ear.
This is what she said, -
"What's mine s yours, dear. Take
it. Ask him buzz, buzz, buzz."
Tue doctor nodded. Mrs. Hicok

Puzzler8.
stood by him and smiled, still holding
in her pretty pink fore-finger the
frail shimmering thing just men-
tioned; and she gave it a twirl, so
that it swung quite round. "Isn't it
a love of a ~ she said.
~ the doctor said aloud. "I
adopt the question."
"fPlrird Question. Which is the
front side of this?"
And he pointed to the bonnet. It
must have been a bonnet, because
Mrs. Hicok called it so. I shouldn't
have known it from the collection of
things in a kaleidoscope, bunched up
together.
TIme lady stood before him, and
twirled the wondrous fabric round and
round, with the prettiest possible un-
conscious roguish look of defiance.
The doctor's very heart si '~ )d still.
"Put it on, please," said Mr. Lyon,
in the most innocent way in the world.
"Oh, no!" laughed she. "I know
I'm only a woman, but I'm not quite
so silly! But I'll tell you ~vhat: you
men put it on, if you think that ~vill
heip you!" And she held out the
mystery to him.
Confident in his powers of discrim-
ination, Mr. Lyon took hold of the
fitiry-hike combination of sparkles and
threads and feathers and flowers,
touching it with that sort of timid ap-
prehension that bachelors use with a
baby. He stood before the glass over
the mantle-piece. First he put it
across his head with one side in front,
and then with the other. Then he
put it lengthways of his head, and
tried tIme effect of tying one of the
two couples of strings under each of
his ears. Then lie put it on, the
other side up; so that it swam on his
head like a boat, with a high mounted
bow and stern. More than once he
did all this, with obvious care and
thoughtfulness.

Devil-a
Then he came slowly back, and re-
sumed his seat. It was growing very
dark, though they had not noticed
it; for the thunder-shower had been
hurrying on, and already its advanced
guard of wind, heavy laden with the
smell of the rain, could be heard, and
a few large drops splashed on the
window.
The beautiful wife of the doctor
laughed merrily to watch the growing
discomposure of the visitor, who re-
turned the bonnet, with undinainishdd
courtesy, but with obvious constraint
of manner.
He looked down; he drummed on
the table; he looked up; and both
the doctor and the doctor's wife were
startled at the intense sudden anger
in the dark, handsome face. Then
he sprang up, and went to the window.
He looked out a moment, and then
said,
"Upon my word, that is going to
be a very sharp squall! The clouds
are very heavy. If I'm any judge,
something will be struck. I can feel
the electricity in the air."
While he still spoke, the first thun-
der-bolt crashed overhead. It was one
of those close, sudden, overpoweringly
awful explosions from clouds very
heavy and very near, where the light-
ning and the thunder leap together
out of the very air close about you,
even as~if you were in them. It was
an unendurable burst of sound, and of
the intense white sheet light of very
near lightning. Drcadfally fright-
ened, the poor little lady clung close
to her husband. He, poor man, if

Puzzler8.                      18
possible yet more frightened, exhaust.
ed as he was by what he had been
enduring, fainted dead away~ Don't
blame him: a east-iron bull-dog
might have fainted.
Mrs. Hicok, thinking that her hus-
band was struck dead by the light-
ning, screamed terribly. Then she
touched him; and, seeing what was
really the matter, administered cold
water from the pitcher on the table.
Shortly he revived.
"Where is he ? ~ he said.
"I don't know, love. I thought
you were dead. He must have gone
away. Did it strike the house?"
"Gone away? Thank God! Thank
you, dear I" cried out the doctor.
Not knowing any adequate cause
for so much emotion, she answered
him,-~
"Now, love, don't you ever say
wonwn are not practical again. That
was a practical question, you Bee.
But didn't it strike the house? What
a queer smell. Ozone: isn't that
what you were telling me about?
How funny, that lightning should
have a smell ~
"I believe there's no doubt of it,"
observed Dr. Hicok.
Mr. Apollo Lyon had really gone,
though just how or when, nobody
could say.
"My dear," said Dr. Hicok, "I do
so like that bonnet of yours! I don't
wonder it puzzled him. It would
puzzle the Devil himself. I firmly be-
lieve I shall call ityourDevil-puzzler."
But he never told her what the
puzzle had been.

Jonas Whitoomb's Remedy,
FOR ASTI-IMA, ROSE COLD, HAY FEVER, ETC.
This remedy has been used in thousands of the worst cases with astonishing and uniform
success, and is offered to the public with full conf'denc~ in its merits. It contains no poi.
sonous or injurioa~ properties wbatevcr~ and an in~ ~nt ina~ t~kq ~t ~ifli, ~er~ct s~Iit~~.


I

THE POLE'S STOI~Y.

I SET out from St. Petersburg one
fine evening in January, to join a
stag-hunt, the next morning, one
hundred and thirty versts distant.
Five sleds, occupied each by two
hunters and drawn by a troika, flew
one after the otlaer like a rapid cara-
van, over the grand highway which
led to Moscow, through Novgorod.
Our Automedon, his arms extended
and his reins rolled around his hands,
standing like the driver of an antique
chariot, directed his three horses,
which were harnessed abreast; one
of them trotting rapidly between
the two others, who galloped on each
side. We were stretclled out on the
seat, lying rather than sitting, com*
fortably wrapped in our pelisses, and
we counted on sleeping* there as
well as on a luxuriously cushioned
ottoman. But we hInd reckoned with-
out those terrible oukhdbi, a kind of
furrows, or rather ditches; wide
gutters hollowed in the road, deep
enough for an equipage to disappear
entirely in them, like a fishing boat
between the billows of the ocean.
Thus kept awake by frequent jolt-
ings, we watched - passing on each
side of the road, after the manner of
the figures in a magic-lantern
sometimes the pines or birch trees,
bending their branches like tired
~srms, under the weight of the scin-
tillating hoar-frost; sometimes the
black and uniform isl~cik of a sleeping
village. The night was clear and
serene, and cold in proportion. Under
the silvery rays of the full moon,
which had just risen above the hori-
zon, the snow sparkled like a cloth
studded with diamonds1 sending back

even to the sky the reflection of the
white shroud which covered the earth,
and gave to all nature its immacu-
late tint.
My bed-fellow, or rather my com-
panion in tile sled, was a Pole, or at
least a Russian of Polish descent,
which was illdicated sufficiently ivell
by the termination of his name
ski, which, as every one knows, is
equivalent to the prefix de of nobility.
He had smoked, without saying a
word, as many cigars, one after the
otlser, as our caravan counted ~sleds;
then ile hind turned over on his side,
nild I tllought him sound asleep, not-
withstansling the pitching of tlao
vehicle, when suddenly he raised the
visor of his otter-skin cap, and look-
ing at the moon said, with a burst
of hoarse laughter,-
"All I Ahi There's Pkn Twar-
dowski I"
"Who is this PIta Twardowski?"
I asked.
"Do you see," replied he, "that
little black man on the face of the
moon, who raises his arms and opens
his legs like Punchinehlo?"
"Yes. Well?"
"Well! that is PItn Twardowski."
"Tell me the story," cried I imme-
diately. "There is some legend un-
derneath this; and I am as impatient
for your narrative as the sultan of
'The Thousand and One Nights' was
for one of the tales of Scheherazade."
"Very willingly," replied he, "if I
can get to the end of it; but I fear
tilat an oukh4bi will make me bite
off my tongue; or that the icy wind
will glue my lips together as it
has already glued my eyelids. The

I

I

U

.1

The Pol

.tight is diabolically cold, and my
('iteth are like lumps of ice in my
~iouth."
He lighted a new cigar, to make
vp the half-dozen; and as soon as
the first puffs of smoke had warmed
a little his stiffened lips, he asked, -
"Have you read the ~ of
Goethe?~'
~ I answered' "but only in
a translation, for I have the misfor-
tune to be ignorant of German, as I
am of a thousand other things; and
none knows better than I, humble
translator as I am of some master-
pieces, all the distance which sep-
arates "-
"No matter," said he, interrupting
sue; "the form is of no importance if
the substance is understood. Since
you have read 'Faust,' either in tile
original or in the translation, you
know the popular legend on which
the great poet of Weiniar has found-
ed his admirable drama. You know
the history of that famous doctor,
John Faust, born at the same time,
it is said, in Anhalt, Suabia, and
Brandenburg; who learned all tile
sciences of his time; knew magic;
and who, always pushed forward by
tile ardent desire of knowing all
things and enjoyiiig all things, ended
by giving himself to the Devil, who
appears in the shape of a little gray
monk, on condition that this little
monk would gratify him in all his
caprices during twenty-four years;
at the end of ~vhich time, the soul of
Faust, in its turn tile slave of the
evil one, should go to roast in hell
the rest of eternity. This history is
old in Poland, ~vhere we ilave a Faust,
much anterior to that of the Ger-
mans, whose neck the Devil wrings
towards the end of the sixteenth
century. Ours is called P&amp;n Twar-
dowski, or, translating jute French,

'8  Story.                          15
Monsieur de Twardow. He lived' at
Cracow, when this poor little republic
(our interview took place before the
month of February, 1848) was the
proud capital of Lech the White.
Loch the Black, and the other Piasts,
precursors of the Ja.gellons. The
Polish, like the German doctor, cub
tivated the entire tree of human
science, was a great necromancer far
beyond any other, and in his despair
at the incompleteness of his knowl-
edge, ever realizing only his igno-
rance at the end of all that he
learned, he also finished by signing
a compact with the Devil. Then,
knowing every thing and enjoying
every thing, he exhausted the er~v-
ing of his soul for science and pleas-
ure.
"Until this point, every thing cor-
responds in the two legen~ls: which
proves, by the way, that that of Faust
is none the less a satire fabricated by
the monks against Doctor John Fust
of Mayence, who was one of the in-
ventors of printing. Thus in Ger-
many, as in Poland, it is aptly shown
in a popular apologue, that a just
punishment follows the pride and
temerity of science. It is again,
under another form, the forbidden
fruit, the tempting serpent, the ex~
pulsion from paradise, and the fall
of man. But towards the end there
is a radical difference hetevcen tI~e two,
narratives. Now, then, attention !"
My friend hemmed, like ~n orator
~vho prepares himself to speak; and
I lifted a corner of my fur cap, for
often his words were frozen in coming
1 Leches were a Oclavonic tribe who in.
babited this country in tho seventh century, and
towards the end of the tenth century were e~dled
Poles (i.e., Sciavonians of the plains). The Plants
were the reigning fully of Poland, front 840 tin.
til 1370, when with Caninir the male line became
extinct. The Jageilons were descendants ef the
Grand-duke of Lithuania, Jageilon, who obtained
~he Polish crown by marriage and election in 1586.
ills dynasty b~~gie extinct ~n 1572.- Translestor.


16

The Pole 's Story.

from his mouth to my ear. He re- nificent boa-bone. On the day agreed
I,
sumed, -                         upon, the parents and friends were
"Faust had made a contract with gathered together in festive attire in
the Devil for a lease of twenty-four the great room of the inn, in which
years, at the end of which time pay-, the curate of the parish was to throw
ment was to be made. It was a fool- the holy water on the brow of the baby,
ish thing, which would astonish me on whom P&amp;n Twardowski, the sacri-
his part; if learned ilien were not ha- legious, held in his arms, all the while
bitually the greatest blockheads in ogling the godmother. But scarcely
the world. However, the continual was the ceremony of baptism finished,
looking forward to this fatal date, when, issuing from a bottle of schnaps,
which would terminate his ephemeral the Devil appeared before the god-
joys and begin his eternal punish- father, and, holding up before him his
meat, was sufficient to empoison all conjuring-book, said, 'Follow me,
the pleasures that offered themselves PAn Twardowskil '- 'Follow youI~
for his enjoyment, and made him feel said the doctor with disdain. 'Are
while in this world the hell which we at Rome? I believed you to be a
awaited him in the next.         better geographer.~ -' Go and ~
"Upon my word, our Pha Twardow- replied Czernbbog, without being in
ski had showed himself much more the least disconcerted, 'the sign of
wary. He had stipulated, by an ex- this inn, and you will see on it, "Am
plicit clause in the compact, that the THE CITY OF RoM:n" The condition
Devil (the latter was called Czern~bog, of our compact is fulfilled: you belong
or the black god) should capture him to me!'
in the city of Rome. He took care,  "Seeing himself entrapped by the
then, as one may imagine, not to go Devil, Pirn Twardowski did not lose
to Rome any more than he would go his head. He seized, in his cradle,
to hell; thus, never approaching the the child from whom baptism had
city of the Popes, he defied the Devil, just taken away original sin, and shel-
whom he held for an arrant dupe, tered himself behind the innocent
and led in peace a vitr buena. But creature, as. beneath the buckler of
this was not the reckoning of an all-powerful exorcism. The Devil
the evil one. His Satanic Majesty did not even attempt to break the
always knows how to merit his name; charm by violence: he knew well
and he laid an ambush for the confi- that all the strength and all the rage
dent do9tor, which neither Escobar of hell could do nothing against a
nor Sanchez, nor all the order of Loy- pure soul, even though it be that of
ola, would ever have imagined, a child born the previous evening.
"One day, being at Cracow, Pita He assumed a grave air; biting off his
Twardowski was invited by a neigh- sentences with the tone of a pedant,
boring innkeeper to hold his new- he said to Pita Twardowski: 'Ver-
born infant at the font for baptism. bum noble debet esse stabile; 'which
The godmother was pretty, - per- means, if I still recollect a little
haps a Marguerite, - whom the reju- Latin, 'The word of a gentleman
venated magician coveted in his in- ought to be sure and sacred.' - 'You
most soul He accepted at once the have tried to insnare me by a cun-
ii       invitation, that he might call her his ning trick,' replied the relish doctor,
associate, and sent to her some mag- in order to justify himself. 'I have

The Pole
only returned to you change for your
money. For a Jesuit, -a Jesuit and
a halV
"Evidently, bern was material for
a lawsuit on the interpretation of
the compact. But, as no tribunal in
this world could judge such a cause,
the parties did that which all litigious
persons ought to do: they made an
amicable settlement. One put back
his conjuring-book into his pocket,
the other laid the child in his cradle;
and, without witnesses, they signed a
new contract, in ~vhich Phn Twar-
dowski engaged to give himself up to
the Devil as soon as the said Devil
should have fulfilled three conditions,
imposed upon him by the said Pha
Twardowski; which if not fulfilled,
the compact became void.
"The trial began immediately. P~n
Twardowski straightway ordered the
Devil to take a horse which was
painted on the fatal sign of the inn,
and gallop three times aroi~nd the
to~ver of the church. Every one
knows that hell, like heaven, is nl~vays
controlled by the number three. With-
out further parley, Ozermibog picked
up a bit of straw from the earth,
and transformed it into a horsewhip.
Touched by the end of this wand, the
painted horse obediently descended
from the sign, all saddled and bridled,
his nostrils breathing fire. The Devil
got astride his steed, and three times
made an infernal circuit around the
church more rapid than that of the
ballad, 'Les morts vont vite:~ and
more furious than a galop of de'bar-
deurs at the marked ball of your opera
at Paris.
"By the ease with which the Devil
had accomplished this first trial, Phn
Twardowski saw very well that the
twelve labors of Hercules would be
mere bagatelles to him; and in order
to oblige such an antagonist to

'8 Story.                    iT
acknowledge himself conquered, it
was necessary to quit the physical
order of things, and try something in
the moral. Recalling to his mind the
recent adventure with the child,
and the miraculous protection that
he had received from his god-daugh-
ter, he ordered the Devil to take a
bath in the vessel of holy water that
the priest had brought hither for the
baptism. At this order, Czera6bog
made a horrible grimace. He trembled
from head to foot, ground his teeth,
rolled his eyes, and for some moments
showed himself irresolute. But at
length the desire to snatch a soul
from paradise - which is the inces-
sant and exclusive occupation of the
evil one - got the mastery over his
natural hQrror of holy water. He
began to shrink, to curl hii~self up,
to fold himself over and over, until
he became about the size of a mouse.
Then, approaching the basin in which
is washed away all the sins of men,
he resolutely plunged in, and dived
head-foremost as from the bridge of
the Neva. One heard that kind of
dull hissing that red-hot iron makes,
when being tempered in cold water;
only, it was not the Devil who burnt
the holy water, but the holy water
that burnt the Devil; for strong odor
of scorched flesh was spread around
throughout the house. Nevertheless,
Czcrn~bog came out of the baptistery,
scalded, but triumphant.
"When he presented himself before
Phn Twardowski, having resumed his
natural form, laughing with that sa-
tanic sneer by which all devils express
their contentment after having per-
formed some trick of their trade, the
poor doctor, in his turn, trembled: one
would have said he felt the roasting of
his own body.
"But there remained a thirdtask for
him to propose to the Devil. Seeing


1' q
p
11
I
11
U
t ~
iii

18                      The P014
what a terrible adversary he had to
overcome, Pim Twardowski resolved
to strike the decisive blow, and to
bring into battle hi~ last reserve; to
play, as we say at cards, his ace of
trumps. He ordered the Devil to pass
on entire month in company with
Pkni Twardowska, - his wife. The
Devil knew her, as well as he did the
wife of Socrates; for she was one of
those dame Honestas who necessarily
are the curse of their husbands.
"At this magic name he instantly
cried out, ' Abremuntio / I give it up!'
and leaving P&amp;n Twardowski, he ran
to hide his shame and defeat at the
farthest depth of hell. Let no one
say after this, that a bad woman is
good for nothing!"
My companion, laughing in his icy
beard, coughed that little dry cough
of the orator who pauses to give place
to the applause of his audience.
"This history," said Ito him, "like
the bad woman, is worth more than
nothing, and I am satisfied with it;
but I do not see the least connection
between Pita Twardowski and the
light of the~moon."-"Ah!it is true,"
replied he. "I forgot to tell you
there were two versions of the history
of my Polish sorcerer. The first -
thatwhich I havcjust related to you-
is that of the scandal-loving tongues
of persons who pretend that the doc-
tor was married. But the serious and
rational men, who affirm that Pita
Twardowski remained all his life a
bachelor, these relate his contest with
the Devil in another way. They say,
that, instead of ordering the malicious
spirit to pass an entire month with
the wicked woman, living, like a
legitimate husband, undcr the same
roof, at the same tables in the same
bed, he proposed for a last trial
something easier and more accepta-
ble; for example, to swallow a hun-

's Story.
dredweight of melted lead, or to tear
oi.i~ his eyes ~vith his elbo~vs. In
short, this prince of devils - aftem
the maniier of the knights-errant of
former times, who fulfilled in all the
ordeals the conditions of certain ad-
ventures, which destiny had reserved
for them to accomplish-caine off con-
queror. And poor 1'&amp;n T~vardowski,
like a true gentleman, the slave of his
word, of his ucrbuim noble, delivered
himself with a good grace to the ene-
my of the human race. Hung as
soon as taken! Czerndbog seized
him by the collar of hi~ double, and,
like an eagle holding it lamb in his
claws, he carried off his p~ey through
the air.
Squeezed in his throat by the grip
of the Devil, and suffocated by the
rapidity of this aerial flight, Pita
T~vardowski lost his breath. Feeling
himself ready to expire, he cried
aloud with a stifled voice, like the
dying man who recommends his soul
to God, 'Ace AT(u'ht parissimncr.'
These sacred words, the joy of heaven
and the terror of hells struck the
Devil like the blow of a thunderbolt.
He let go his hold, was precipitated
downwards, and Pimn Twardowski
remained suspended in space, like an
anatomical preparation in mi jar of
alcohol. And there lie is yet, pre-
served in ethereal vapor. Aiid the
people of my country, at the time of
the full moon, when they see upon
its face a little man, holding out his
arms and throwing out his legs, do
not fail to say, 'Ah 1 there is Phn
Twardowski I "'
At this moment our sled stopped
before the station of Tozna; and while
changing horses we hurried into the
hall of the post-house, that is open to
all travellers, to warm ourselves by
driiiking a cup of excellent ~
tea.

IT was in the summer of 1806, in
m~ variety theatre in Pittsburg, that I
first sa~v the Improvisatore. There
are two classes of people whom I inva-
riably find in the audiences of vatie-
ty theatres. The representative of
one class meets me with the observa-
tion, that he has never been there be-
fore, and has only dropped iu this
time out of curiosity. It is needless
to remark, that this representative,
who always has an eminently respect-
able look, is a liar. He has been
there before; and he will be there
again. The representative of the
other class knows what is coming.
His assertions as to what the next
performer is going to do create plens~
ant anticipations in the circle around
him; and I have often wondered
whether the representatives of this
class might not be minions of the
management, employed to keep the
interest of those around them unflag-
ging, from the beginning to the end
of the performance.
As I had been somewhat bored by
the performances of two wizened bal-
let dancers, and had been really
stunned by the remarkably unpicas-
sat manner in which a remarkably
'mapleasant song, entitled, "I'm the
Wrl that's Jolly, Boys,"had been sung
a fat woman, in a short, blue vel-
ret skirt, I looked through the pro-
~ramme in search of something inter-
a~ting. My eye fell upon the follow-
tag:
"Tss~ IMPROVISATORE,
MORDAUNT E. HILL, EsQ.
Tm miscellaneous extenrpor~zations."
"1103 just great," said the repre-

The .tn~pro?.isatore and the Heeler.

THE IMPIROVISATORE AND THE HEELED~
ar FRIID W. LOllING.

tentative of class number two, enthu-
siastically. "He is an improvisatoar,
he is."
"What does he ~ I asked.
"He makes up songs as he goes
along," said the representative. "Some
of them are funny, and some ain't;
but he makes 'em all up, without stop-
ping to think."
At this moment, as if to verify my
informant's description, Mordaunt B.
Hill, Esq., stepped upon the stage.
The personal appearance of Mordaunt
E. Hill, Esq., was certainly not pre-
possessing. He wore a large brown
wig, which seemed obtrusively to
show that it was a wig, and under no
circumstances to be mistaken for real
hair. One eye was a dingy blue in
color, the other apparently sightless.
Hislipswere thin and parched, his skin
yellow and mottled, his teeth-which
were horrible - were few in number,
and scattered at intervals along his
gums. The singular ugliness of his
whole appearance was enhanced by
the remarkable manner in which he
was dressed. He wore a forlorn old
brown sack coat, in the button-hole
of which was an unwieldy bunch of
bright pink and blue flowers,- a deco-
ration which crowned the grotesque
repulsiveness of his whole appearance.
Received with the usual amount of
applause, he bowed, and immediately
began to sing in a dismally cracked
and dissonant voice, to the air of "The
Cork Leg," -
"Kind friends, I've come in here to sing a song
And it won't be short, end it won't ho long:
And I hope yen won't consider it wrong
If I mike itslinguige somewhat strong
lube, rallee, railno, really,
Ritee, rallee, rellay."

19


20               The Improvisator
This opening verse was evidently a
formula. The real work of improvi-
sation was about to begin. There
was a curious fascination to me
watching, him. His sallow face, all
the more sa!lo~v for the dot of rouge
on each cheek-bone, gleamed with a
ghastly smile, as the burst of applause
told him that his first verse had suc-
ceeded with his hearers: but, in the
midst of this horrible smile, a look of
pain came over his face; and I saw
that his feeble old brain was making
desperate efforts to grind out another
verse. To my great surprise, this
verse, when it came, was slightly pa-
thetic: -
"When I was a child, I used to be
A-standing beside of my mother's knee:
But now I'm a grown-up man; and she
Is bur-i-ed far away from me
llitoo, ralino, rallee, really,
Ritoo, ralloo, really."
Again the ghastly smile, again the
look of painful effort; and this time,
to tile great delight of his audience,
he beame personally abusive. Ex-
tending his hand, he pointed to the
right of the house, and sang, -
"It wouldn't do that young man no hurt
If he was to go home and put on a clean shirt;
For the one ho's got on is covered with dirt,
And the girl beside him is trying to flirt
Ritoo, ralloo, rallon, really,
Ritee, ralloo, really."
"I guess," said the representative,
reflectively, "that he's pretty full to-
night. He does pitch in awful when
he's full."
Whether the Improvisatore was full
or not, I cannot say; but he certainly
did pitch in. A tall man in the par-
quet circle was alluded to as a "bean-
pole;" a woman in front of me was
accused of being too fat, and "lapping
over~~ her seat; and a young gentle-
man, with bushy red hair, in the or-
cheatra, was made so unpleasantly

e and the Heeler.
conspicuous by the delicate raillery of
the Improvisatore, that he finally rose,
and left the house. The audience
applauded every thing that came from
the Improvisatore; yet I fancied that
most people seemed relieved from in-
definite apprehensions when he had
finished.
"He is a lusby old fellow," said the
representative, - "a kind of boiled
maniac. He'll probably go and get
drunk now that his work is ~
Three years elapsed before I again
saw the Improvisatore. I was in the
bar-room of the Continental, with my
friend, Dr. Max Schweigenthnl. The
doctor is a charming young fellow,
with a beautiful wife. In some curi-
ous way, he has acquired the monopoly
of practice among the theatrical cir-
cles of his city. If a heavy tra~edian
has a deeper hoarseness than usual, lie
summons Dr. Sehweigenthal. If a
dancer sprains her ankle, or a trapeze-
performer shatters a couple of ribs,
Dr. Schweigeuthal is sent for at once.
He has attended stars and supernu-
meraries, he has prescribed for 11am-
let and Jem Bags.
I was talking with the doctor, when
I saw the hideous but familiar face
of the Improvisatore at the farther
end of the room. lIe seemed a trifle
shabbier than when I had last seen
him, but still was little changed.
"Who is that man?" I asked my
friend.
"Hill, the concert-saloon perform-
er," was the reply.
"Sure enough," I said; "I remem-
ber him now."
"Do you see that heavy-looking
brute, just behind him?" asked the
doctor.
~ said I. "Is he a singer
too?"
Myfriend laughed. "It's a curious
story," he said, -" one ef the most

The Improvisaic
curious I ever heard. That man is a
heeler."
"A wheeler ~ I repeated, in uttee
bewilderment.
"Yes;" said the doctor. "Light
your cigar, and sit do~vn here where
you can ~vatch them, and I will tell
you the story, such as it is."
The doctor's story was indeed a
singular one. Mr. Samuel Bangs was
mauiager of the Concordia Theatre.
The Concordia Theatre is devoted to
the variety business. "We go ahead;
but we aim to be chaste and refined
in our style," are the words that head-
ed the Coacordia programme at the
opening of the last season. Now, un-
fortunately for Mr. Samuel Bangs,
his associates were brief and concise
in their manner of addressing him,
and so reduced his first name to a
monosyllabic form. To be called Sam
Bangs was not a very great annoy-
ance; but Mr. Bangs didobjeettothe
nickname that gradually grew out of
his being thus addressed. Th~ "1',
which had been taken from one end
of his name was attached to the other
end; and the manager of the Con-
cordia was known, even among the
dirty little ragamuffins who fre-
quented his upper gallery, as Slam
Bang.
In spite of his name, Slam Bang
was a man of peaceful disposition~.
his chief ambition, as he oftea told
Dr. Schweigenthal, was to buy a farm
in the country, and take Mrs. Bangs
and the children there, and never see
the inside of a theatre again. The
Concordia Theatre was certainly not
the place for such a man, as the emi-
nent artists who appeared there were
turbulent and quarrelsome: so that
personal encounters, in which Slam
Bang was invariably defeated, were
of frequent occurrence. One day, in
a state of depression f~c~i these facts,

and the Ileeler.           21
a brilliant idea struck Slam Bang
He ivent away from home for a few
days, and, when he returned, re-ap-
peared in the bar-room opposite the
(loucordia. There was a complacent
expression about his mouth, and a de-
termined look in his eye. Behind
him was a thickset, powerfully built
man, of about thirty years of ago.
"Gentlemen," said Slam Bang to
a group of idlers in front of the coun-
ter, "What will you take?"
This question having received a
practical answer, Slam Bang said to
the thickset man, -
"Heeler, settle the bills U'
The thickset man thereupon pro-
duced a pocket-book, and paid for the
drinks.
"This, gentlemen, is my Heeler,"
said Mr. Bangs. "Perhaps I calls
him my Healer because he heals my
wounds, and perhaps I calls him my
Heeler because lie follows at my heels;
you can spell his name out for your-
self. Anyhow, I hope there won't
none of you give me no occasion to
show what his professional duties is."
The loungers were evidently aston-
ished. Prof. Walters, - the great
performer on the xylophone, which
he was in the habit of informing
his audiences was named from two
Greek words, zyloe, wood, and phony,
a sound, - Prof. Walters, who, forced
to appear before the audiences of the
Concordia in the unromantic trap-
pings of a dress suit, made up for this
by assuming, when off the stage, an
exaggerated ferocity of mien, - was
heard audibly tb wonder, "What on
earth old Slam was up to now!"
"Old Slam," said Mr. Bangs, in a
sweet and gentle tone, "did them
words apply to me, Professor?"
"What'll you do if they did?"
growled Prof. Walters.
"I will tell you what I shall do,"


22            The Improvisatol
replied Mr. Bangs. "Heeler, you're
wanted!"
Upon this, the Heeler drew back
his fist, and calmly, ~vith a pleasant
smile upon his face, knocked Prof.
Walters down. Having knocked him
down, the Heeler seized him by the
collar, and pulled him up. "Now,"
said the Heeler conclusively, "get!"
The professor withdre~v. Then Nfr.
Bangs said, -
"I wish here to state, that the name
of Slam is obnoxious to me; and,
ftnrthermore, hereafter I intend to be
treated with the respect due to the
manager of a theatre." And, followed
by the Heeler, Mr. Bangs also left the
room. Awe, though not silent awe,
filled the bosoms of the company; and,
for several weeks, every thing went
smoothly with Mr. Bangs. The fame
of the Heeler spread through profes-
sional circles; and other managers
determined to adopt the same plan.
Among these was the celebrated Harry
Frock of Cincinnati, whose abilities
and whose diamond pin are well
known through the United States.
Mr. Frock, as it happened, was
obliged to come East soon after the
Heeler had begun his work. Mr.
Freck brought his own Heeler with
him; and Mr. Frock came to visit Mr.
Bangs. He entered the bar-room
opposite the Concordia. Mr. Bangs
greeted Mr. Freck with the utmost
cordiality; and the Heeler, recogniz-
ing in Mr. Frock's Heoler an old friend
and associate, greeted him with equal
warmth, though in a manner which
might to many people seem somewhat
peculiar. First, he looked intently
at the stranger; and a fat smile crept
gradually over his face, which smile
was answered by one of equal breadth.
Then, as if unable to express his feel-
ings in words, the Heeler swung out
his left' arm, and gave his friend a

~e and the Ileeler.
tremendous blow on the side of the
head. This demonstration of affection
was answered by Mr. Freck's Heeler
with a resounding thwack upon our
Heelei~s chest, his countenance fairly
beaming with delight. The Ilecler
then gave his friend a gigantic tap on
the nose, receiving in return a playful
punch in the ribs that nearly doubled
him up. Then both these worthies
descended, to the use of simple lan-
guage.
"Well, old horse," said the Heeler,
"and how are you?"
To this interrogatdry, the Heeler
from Cincinnati returned the irrele-
vant, but ap~arontly satisfactory, re-
mark, "Let's liquor.~~
This delightful and amicable state
of affairs had lasted a day and a half,
when some cause of war arose to
destroy the unnatural tranquillity that
was temporarily surrounding the Con-
cordia. What it was, no one can tell;
but some untoward event caused a
disagreement, and a conflict between
the Heeler aiid his friend, severe but
decisive, ensued. The Heeler was
defeated, ingloriously and terribly
defeated, and retired for a while from
public life, enshrouded in solitude and
brown paper. On hi~ re-appearance,
lie found himself disi~issed from the
service of Siam Bang forever. At a
loss what to do, he went and took a
drink. Then dull ide~ that he should
like to see what was going on in the
theatre seized his mi~d; and he en-
tered the doors of th&amp; Concordia. It
was the first appearance there of
Mordaunt E. Hill, Esq., who was to
improvise a series o~ "Musical and
Metrical Reflections up~n Topics of
the Day."
The Improvisatore ivas not the mnn
that he had been. His abusive re-
marks towards the audience lacked
their former pungency; and he was

The Improvisato
beginning to show the effects of his
wretched, wearing life. But to-night
he was brilliant: he alluded to the
recent municipal election in the city, to
an elopement that had recently taken
place, and to other pieces of local
scandal, with immense effect. Having
heard of the battle of the Heelers,
which had been the subject of green-
room conversation for several days, he
rose to the occasion, and, inspired by
the theme, cave vent to the following
outburst to the air of "The Flying
Trapeze:
"Dlii a rising young man for a fighter he went,
And fur hi~ opponents lie cared not a cent;
But, on beiiig a Ileeler, his miiid it was bent:
So lie cams to the Concordi-a.
This malinger therefore engaged him:
Ho got whipped; but 'tw:is in a fair fight,
And now for to go and dismiss him,
I say it ain't serving him right.
~horus : -
The things of this world folks are sure to con-
fuss;
Ani so I've come in here to tellyon the news:
Aiid I hops that your patience I shall not
abuse
Until I've concluded my lay."
This verse was pci~fectly meaningless
to the greater part of tiac audience,
and so received but little applause;
but the Heeler, standing at the back
of the theatre, listened with delight.
ceTliat there song's ~hout me!" he
declared to several people about him.
"A song about me I To dismiss the
poor Heeler ain't right. Why that
man is a regular genius I I'll go and
ask him to take a drink."
And so he did. The Improvisatore
accepted the proffered civility, and
then returned the invitation. A sec-
ond invitation, and a third from the
1-Leeler, met with similar results; and
the Heeler finally offered to escort the
Improvisatory home.
That night, after the Improvisatore
had rcaehed his boarding-house under

re and the Ileeler.            23
the Heeler's care, he was seized with
a violent fit. Alone, and without a
friend, lie would probably have died,
had the Heeler not been present. Dr.
Sehweigenthal was sent for imme-
diately.
"Are you his friend?" asked the
doctor of the Heeler, after he realized
what was the matter with his pa-
tient.
"Yes, sir," said the Heeler enthu-
siastically. "He made a song up about
me, he did, which ~
"There, there," said the doctor,
checking him, "that's enough. What
I wish to say is this, The old man
here is dying from the effects of drink-
ing; and, unless lie has some one to
take care of him, he will not live very
long; even with the greatest possible
care, he is liable to go off at any mo-
ment."
"Well," said the Heeler, in ~ slow,
half stupid sort of way, "I wouldn't
like thnt, sir. He made up a song about
me, lie did; and it was really beautiful.
It would be a great pity to lose a
tal-ented man like he is, sir; now,
wouldn't it?"
"Perhaps," said the doctor di~yly.
"Now, my good fellow," he added,
"the best plan, I think, will be to
send him to the hospital "-
"Now, don't say so, sir," said the
Heeler, with more eagerness than he
had yet shown. "He'd hate it, sir,
like" -
"No swearing," said the doctor de-
cisively; and, a little abashed, the
Heeler continued, -
"I've made some money, sir, and so
has he; and I can afford to take care
of him: I think it would do me good,
sir. Folks needs something to take
care on, sir; andy when they don't have
it, they gets to be sort of beasts, I
7~
think, sir.
"Ah," said the doctor, pleased ~t


24                      The La
this gleam of intelligence, "if you
realize that you're a beast, you are in
a fair way of becoming something
better than a ~
This epigrammatic observation was
lo~t upon the Heeler, who simply
said, -
"Well, sir, may I try my hand on
him?"
~ said Dr. Schweigenthal, "I
think I can trust you."
"And ~ asked the Heeler,
"must I settle folks as comes up and
"Let me feel your biceps," said the
doctor. "Splendid, - though fight
shy of drinking, my fine fellow. You've
got an arm that ought to atop any
meddling."
"Well," said the Heelerwith along
sigh of satisfaction, "I knows my
prospects now, and I like them."
It was six weeks before the linpro-
visatore was able to resume his work
again. During all this time, the Heeler
watched him as tenderly as a woman
would; and, at the end of the illness,
there was a tie formed between them
which was as strong as it was curious.
This was the substance of Dr. Schwei-
genthal's story.
"I think it has done them both
good," said he. "It is only a question
of time and circumstances as to when

st Week.
Hill will die; but I don't believe he
can last a year. Meanwhile, he enjoys
the luxury of having some one who
cares for him, - old wretch though
he is."
"And how has it benefited the
Heeler, ~ I asked.
"It is slowly humanizing a brute,"
said the doctor. "The process is slow;
but, the action once begun, I have
faith in its continuance. When the
Improvisatore dies, I shall take the
other fellow into my service."
"Look, Max!" I said, "there is a
curious performance."
Even as I spoke, the Heeler had
taken a glass of liquor out of the 1w-
provisatore's trembling hand.
"There, old man," he said roughly,
yet with a certain tenderness, "you've
had your two glasses to-night; and
you can't have no more."
And, with these words, he drew his
friend slowly away from the bar into
the street. The old man looked wist-
fully back: the Heeler, catching the
doctor's nod of approval, smiled in a
~say that, for the moment, made his
face seem absolutely beautiful: then
the door opened and closed, revealing
a glimpse of the black street without,
as they passed from the evil, glitter-
ing splendor of the bar-room into the
cold winter darkness.

THE TWO PRINCES:
A STORY FOR CHILDREN.
BY II. II. HALE.
THRRE was a King of Hungary towers, and many halls, and many stair.
whose name was Adelbert. ways, in the city of Buda, by the side
When he lived at home, which was of the river Donau.
not often, it was in a castle of many  He had four daughters, and only one

The Two
son, who was to be the King after him,
whose name was Ladislaus. But it
was the custom of those times, as
hoys and girls grew up, to send them
for their training to some distance from
their home, even for many mouths at
a time, to try a little experiment on
them, and see how they fared; and so,
at the time I tell you of, there was
staying in the castle at linda the
Prince Bela, who was the son of the
King of Bohemia,-and he and the
boy Ladislaus studied their lessons to-
gether, and flew their kites, and hunted
for otters, and rode with the falconers
together.
One day as they were studying with
the tutor, who was a priest named
Stephen, he gave to them a book of
fables, awl each read a fable.
Ladislaus read the fable of the
SKY-LARit.
The sky-lark sat on the topmost
bough of the savy-tree, and was waked
by the first ray of the sun. Then the
sky-lark flew and flew up and up to the
topmost arch of the sky, and sang the
hymn of the morning.
But a frog, who was croaking in the
cranberry marsh, said, "Why do you
take such pains and fly so high? the
sun shines here, and I can sing here."
And the bird said, "God has made
me to fly. God has made me to see.
I will fly as high as He will lift me,
and sing so loud that all shall hear
me."
And when the little Prince Ladislaus
and rend the fable, he cried out, "The
sky-lark is the bird for me, and I will
paint his picture on my shield after
school this mornincr"
Then the Prince lidla read the next
fable - the fable of the
WATER-EAT.     U
A good beaver found one day a
little water-rat almost dead. His father

Princes.                       25
and mother had been swept away by
a freshet, and the little rat was almost
starved. But the kind beaver gave
him of her own milk, and brought him
up in her own lodge with her children,
and he got well, and could eat, and
swim, and dive with the best of them.
But one day there wa~s a great alarm,
that the heavers' dam was giving way
before the water. "Come one, come
all," sa:id the grandfather of the heavers,
"come to the rescue." So they all
started, carrying sticks and bark with
them, the water-rat and all. But as
they swam under an old oak-tree's
root, the water-rat stopped in the dark-.
ness, and then he quietly turned round
and went back to the hut. "Is will
be hard work," said he, "and thei'e are
enough of them." There wereenough
of them. They mended the dam by
working all night, and by working all
day. Bus, as they came back, a great
wave of the freshet came pouring over
the dam, and, though the dam stood
firm, the beavers were swept away, -
away and away, down the river, into
the sea, and they died there.
And the wat~r-ras lived in their
grand house by himself, and had all
their stores of black-birch bark, and
willow bark, and sweet poplar bark for
his own.
"That was a clever rat," said the
Prince Bela. "I will paint the rat on
my shield, when school is done." And
the priest Stephen was very sad when
he said so; and the Prince Ladislaus
was surprised.
So they went to the play-room, and
painted their shields. The shields
were made of the bark of hemlock-
trees. Ladislaus chipped off the rough
bark till the shield was white, and
made on the place the best sky-lark he
could paint there. And Bela watched
him, and chipped off the rough bark
from his shield, and said, "You paint
so well, now paint my water-rat for


26                       The Two
me." "Nor said Ladislaus, though
he was very good-natured, "I cannot
paint it well. You must paint it your-
self." And Bela did so.
'I.
So the boys both grew up, and
one became ~Kiag of Hungary, and
one was the King of the Bohemians.
And King Ladislaus carried on his
banner the picture of a sky-lark; and
the ladies of the land embroidered
sky-larks for the scarfs and for the
pennons of the soldiers, and for the
motto of the banner were the Latin
words "Propior Deo," which mean
"Nearer to God." And King Bela car-
ried the water-rat for his cognizance:
and the ladies of his land embroidered
water-rats for the soldiers; and his
motto was "Enough."
And in these times a holy man from
Palestine came through all the world;
and he told how the pilgrims to the
tomb of Christ were beaten and starved
by the Saracens, and how many of
them were dying in dungeons. And
he begged the princes, and the lords,
and ladies, for the love of God and the
love of Christ, that they would come
and rescue these poor people, and se-
cure the pilgrims in all coining time.
And King Ladislaus said to his people
"We will do the best we can, and
serve God as He shows us how!" And
the people said, "We will do the best
we can, and save the people of Christ
from the infidel!" And they all came
together to the place of arms; and
the King chose a hundi~ed of the brav-
est and healthiest of the young men,
all of whom told the truth, and no
one of whom was afraid to die, and
they marched with him to the land of
Christ; and as they marched they sang,
"Propior Deo," "Nearer to Thee."
And Peter the Hermit went to Bo-
hemia, and told the story of the
cruel Saracens and the sufferings of
ihe pilgrims to King Bela and his peo-

Princes.
pIe. And the King said, "Is it far
away?" And the Hermit said, "Far,
far away." And the King said, "Ah
well, - they must get out as they got
in. We will take care of. Bohemia."
So the Hermit went on to Saxony, to
tell hjs story.
And King Ladislaus and his hundred
true young men rode and rode day by
day, and came to the Mount of
Olives just in time to be at the side
of the great King Godfrey, when he
broke the Paynim's walls, and dashed
into ihe city of Jerusalem. And King
Ladislaus and his men rode together
along the Way of Tears, ivhcre Christ
bore the cross-beam upon his shoul-
der, and he sat on the stone whcre the
cross had been reared, and he read the
gospel through again; and there he
prayed his God that he might always
bear his cross bravely, and that like the
Lord Jesus, he might never be afraid
to die.
IlL
And when they had all come home
to Hungry, their time hung very
heavy on their hands- And the young
-men said to the King, "Lead us to
war against the Finns, or lead us to
war against the Russ."
But the King said, "No! if they
spare our people, we spare their peo-
ple: Let us have peace." And he
called the young teen who had fought
with him, and he said, "The time hangs
heavy with us; let us build a temple
here to the living God, and to the honor
of his Son. We will carve on. its walls
the story we have seen, and while we
build we will remember Zion and the
Way of Tears."
And the young men said, "We are
not used to building."
"Nor am I," said the king; "but let
us build and build as best we can, and
give to God the best we have and the
best we know."
So they dug the deep trenches for
the foundations, and they sent north and

The Tw6
south, and cast and west for the wisest
builders who loved the Lord Christ;
and the builders came, and the carvers
came, and the young men learned to
use the chisel and the hammer; and
the great Cathedral grew year by year,
- as a l)il)e-trce in the forest grows above
the birches and the yew-trees on the
ground.
And once King Bela came to visit
his kinsman, and they rode out to see
the builders. And King Ladislans dis-
mounted from his horse, and asked
Bela to dismount, and gave to him a
chisel and a hammer.
" ~ said the King Bela, "it will
hurt my hamids. In my land we have
workuien whom we pay to do these
things. But I like to see you work."
So lie sat upou his horse till dinner
time, anil he went home.
And year by year the Cathedral grew.
And a diousand pinnacles were built
ispoma the towem's, and on the roof, and
along the ~valls; and on each pinnacle
there fluttered a golden sky-lark. And
on the altar iii the Cathedral was a
scroll of crimson, and on time crimson
scroll were letters of gold, and the let-
ters were in the Latin language, and
said, "Propior Dco," and on a blue
scroll underneath, in the language of
the people, they were translated, and
it said, "Nearer to Thee."
Iv.
And another Hermit came, and lie
told the King that the Black Death
was ravaging tIme cities of time East;
that half the people of Constantinople
were dead; dint the gremit fair at 4
Adrianople was closed; that the ships
on time Black Sea had no sailors; and
that there would be no food for the
people on the lower river.
And the King said, "Is the Duke
dead, whom we saw at Bucharest; is
the Emperor dead, who met me at
Constantinople?"

Princes.                      2Z
"No, your Grace," said the Hermit,
"it pleases tIme Lord that in the Black
Death only those die who Jive in hov-
els and in towns. The Lord has spared
those who live in castles and in pal-
aces."
"Then," said King Ladislaus, "I
will live as my people live, and I will
die as my people die. The Lord Jesus
had ~so pillow for his head, and no
house for his lodging; and as the least
of his brethren fares so will I fare,
and as I fare so shall they."
So the King and the hundred braves
pitched their tents on the high land
above the old town, around the new
Cathedral, and the Queen and the ladies
of the court went with them. And
day by day the King and the Queen and
the hundred braves, and their hundred
ladies, went up and down the filthy
wynds and courts of the city, and they
said to the poor people there, "Come,
live as we live, and die as we die."
And the people left tIme holes of pes-
tilence and came and lived in the open
air of God.
And when the people saw that the
King fared as they fared, the people
said, "'We also will seek God as the
King seeks Him, and will serve Hun as
he serves Him."
And day by day they found others
who had no homes fit for Christian men,
sad brought them upon the high land
and built all together their tents, and
booths and tabernacles, open to the sun
and light, and to the smile, and kiss,
and blessing of the fresh air of God.
And there grew a new and beautiful
city there.
And so it was, that when the Black
Death passed from the East to the
West, the Angel of Death left the city
)f Buda on one side, and 4he people
cever saw the pestilence with their eyes.
['lie Angel of Death passed by them,
Lad rested upon the cities of Bohe-
nia.


28

V.
And King Ladislaus grew old. His
helmet seemed to him more heavy. His
sleep seemed to him more coy. But
he had little care, for he ha-I a loving
wife, and he had healthy noble sons
and daughters~who loved God, and who
told the truth, and who were not afraid
to die.
But one day, in his happy prosperity,
there came to him a messenger running,
who said in the Council, "Your Grace,
the Red Russians have crossed the Red
River of the north, and they are march-
ing with their wives and their children
with their men of arms in front, and
their wagons behind, amid they say they
a-rn find a land nearer the sun, and to
this land are they coming."
And the old King smiled; and he
said to those that were'left of the
buadmed brave men who took the cross
with him, "Now we will see if our
boys could haVe fought at Godfrey's
side. For us it matters little. One
way or another way we shall come
~mearer to God."
And the armorers mended tIme old~
armor, and the young men girded on
swords which had never been tried in
tight, and the pennons that they bore
were embroidered by their sweethearts
and sisters as in the old days of the
Crusades, and with the same device
of a sky-lark in mid-heaven, and
the motto, "Nearer, my God, to
Thee."
And there came from the great Cathe-
d"al the wise men who had come from
.11 the lands. They found the King, and
they said to him, "Your Grace, we
&amp; now how to build the new defenses
for the land, and we will guard the river
ways, that the barbarians shall never
.~ntcr them."
And when the people knew that the
lied Russians were on the way, they met
~n the square and marched to the palace,
isad Robert the Smith mounted the steps
sf the palace and called the King. And

he said, "The people are here to bid
the King lie of good heart. The people
bid me say that they will die for their
King and for his land."
And the King took from his wife's
neck the blue ribbon that she wore,
with a golden sky-lark on it, and bound
it round time blacksmith's arm, and lie
said, "if I die, it is nothing; if I live,
it is nothing; that is in God's hand.
But whether we live or die, let us draw
as near Him mis we may."
And the Blacksmith Robert turned
to the people, and with his loud voice,
told what the King had said.
And the people answered in the
shout which tIme Hungarians shout to
this day, "Let us die for our king I
Let us die fbr our king!"
And the King called the Queen has-
tily, and they and their children led the
host to the great Cathedral.
And the old priest Stephen, who was
ninety years old, stood at the altar,
and lie read the gospel where it says,
"Fear not, little flock, it is your Fath-
er's good pleasure to give you the king-
dom."
And lie read the other gospel where
the Lord says, "And I, if I be lifted
up, will draw all men unto me." And
lie read the epistle where it says, "No
man liveth to himself, and no man
dieth to' himseW" And he chanted the
psalm, "The Lord is my rock, my for-
tress, and my deliverer."
And fifty thousand men, with one
heart and one voice, joined with him.
And the King joined, and the Queen
to sing, "The Lord is my rock, my
fortress and my deliverer."
And they marched from the Cathe-
dral, singing in the language of the
country, "J.'ropior Deo," which is to
say in our tongue, "Nearer, my God, to
Thee."
And the aged braves who had fought
with Godfrey, and the younger men
who had learned of arms in time Uni-
versity, went among the people and

The Two Princes.

TkeT~
divided them into companies for dii
ivar. And Robert the Blacksmith, aii~
all the guild of the blacksmiths, and o
the braziers, nuul of the coppersmiths
and of time whitesmiths, even the gold
smiths an(I the silversmiths, mad
weapons for the war ; mind the ma~on~
afl(l the ciirj)enter~, anti the ditclieri
and delivers marched out with tin
catlmc(lral hinilders to the narrow passed
of the river, and built new the fur.
tresses.
And the Lady Constance and hem
daughters, aimd evemy lady in the land~
went to die churches and the convents
an(l threw them wide open. And in
the kitchens they baked bread for the
soldiers ; and in tIme churches they
sjuread coaches for the sick or for the
wounded.
Amid when tIme Red Russians came
in their host, there was not a man, or
woman, or child in all hungry bitt
was in the place to which God hal
called him, and was doing his best in
his J)lace for his God, for th~ Church of
Christ, amid for his brothers and sisters
of the land.
And the host of the Red Russians
was turned aside, as at the street cor-
ncr yon have seen time dirty water of a
gutter turnc(l asi(le hiy the curbstone.
They fought one battle against the
I hungarian host, and were driven as the
blackbirds are driven by the fideons.
And they gathered themselves and
swept westward; and came down upon
the passes to Bohemia.
And there were no fortresses at the
entrance to Bohemia; for King Bela
had no learned men who loved him.
And there was no army in the plains
of Bohemia; for his people had been
swept away in the pestilence. And
there were no brave men who had
fought with Godfrey, and knew the art
of arms, for in those old days time King
had said, "Jt is far away; and we have
'enough' in Bohemia."

29

e So the Red Russians, who call them.
I selves the Szechs, took his land from
f him; and they live there till this day.
Amid the King, without a battle, fled
- from the back-door of his palace, in the
disguisee of a charcoal-man; and he left
his queen and his daughters to be cin-
der-girls in the service of the Chief of
the Red Russians.
And tIme false charcoal-man walked
by day, and walked by night, till lie
fouiid refuge in the castle of the King
Ladislaus; and he met him in the old
schoolroom where they read the flibles
together. And lie remembered how the
water-rat came to tIme home of the
beavers.
And he said to King Ladislaus, -
"AIm, me I do you remember when
we were boys together? Do you re-
member the fable of the Sky-lark, and
the fable of the Water-rat?"
~' I remember both," said the King.
And lie was silent.
"God has been very kind to you,"
said the beggar; "and He has been very
hard to me."
And the King said nothing.
But tIme old priest Stephen, said,
"God is always kind. But God will
not give us other fruit than we sow
seed fir. The king here has tried
to serve God as lie knew how; with
one single eye lie has looked on the world
of God, amid lie has made the best choice
lie kne~v. And God has given him
what lie thought miot of: brave men
for his knights; wise men for his coun-
cil; a free and loving people for his
army. And you have not looked with
a single eye; your eye was darkened..
You saw only what served yourself.
Amid you said, 'This is enough;' and
you had no brave men for your knights;
no ivise men for your council; no
people for your army. You chose to
look dowmi, and to take a selfish brute.
for yotir adviser. And lie has led you
so far. We choose to look up; to draw

,o Princes.


30                    New England Shaken.
nearer God; and where He leads we spread for Bela; and that every day
follow." his breakfast and his dinner and his
Then King Ladislaus ordered that supper should be served to him; and
in the old school-room a bed should be he lived there till he died.
BURNETT'S KALLISTON,
As a Wash for the Complexion, has no equal. It is distinguished for its
cooling niid soothing properties, and is a(htlirably adapted to cli unnatural
conditions of the skin; removing tan, sunburn, freckles, redness nn(l rough-
ness of the skin, etc., curing chopped hands, and allaying the irritation
caused by the bites of mosquitoes and other annoying insects. The Kallis-
ton is highly recommended as
A Wash for the ilead.Gooling, Cleansing asd Refreshing.
After ,Sha?.mtng..........~Softening the~beard and skin.
For Bites cs! Mosquitoes.... C'ornpletely neutralizing the poison.
After Sea Bathing.Relieving the action of the water and sun.
For~ Chapped Bands.An eft~ctioe application.
For the Nursery.......Peculiarly adapted to the bathing of infants.
salt Imparts to the shin a peculiar sofness of ~ Transcript.
"'rue result of its use isa perfectly healthy action of the ukiu."-Ilostoit Traveller.
'~0ue of the best cosmetics it has been our fortune to ~
"We yield it the palm."-1308101t Gazette.
IN THE WIDE WORLD
DX THEODOJI FEDERHOHN.
Translated from the Swedish by Selina Borg and Marie A. Brown.J
A LARGE railway depOt, or "gare" but soon they are electrified by the
as the French call it, is an interesting general activity, and hurry up as
specimen of the works called forth by quickly as the rest, first to the ticket-
thepower of steam. It is only through office, then to get their baggage
this colossal power that such thousands checked, and then to the waiting-room.
of people can, within so few hours~ be Here they find plenty of company.
N transferred from one end of the world There is a party arranging how to ma-
to another; and it is consequently nmuvre themselves into good seats
steam that collects the human masses when the doors open. Solitary travel-
which daily stream to and from the lers nrc observing the rest, and being
large d~p6ts in the principal cities of observed by them. Some are seated;
Europe. The life, the motion, the but the larger number stand packed
runrmur of voices, the rumble of cars together, and fill up the whole room.
rolling back and forward on 12110 track, The hour of departure approaches:
have a singular effect upon those who they grow impatient, and begin to
see them for the first time. grumble, but in vain. That insensible
At the beginning they are in a man- Cerbei~us, the conductor, walks, with
ncr stunned by all this commotion; measured steps and an almost scorn-

In the Wide World.

81

f:i1 look, outside the closed glass doors served for two. The other, who re-
which separate the waiting crowd from manned standing, now began in her
the cars. All at once, as if he had turn to look for like accommodations;
taken a sudden whim, he opens the but all the seats were occupied, and
doors: "Entrez dans les voitures I', he no one seemed disposed to rise. She
cries; and out rush the whole throng, commenced to complain in very poor
in almost wild disorder, to take seats French: " C'est horrible, ccci / AT' est-
in the cars, which are instantly closed cc pas, ma che're Arabella? Je dois
again, and roll t~way behind the puff- roster ici comsne 9a; c'cst vraiment
ing locomotive.                    horrible, oni / C 'est tozgiours consme
it was a beautiful August day, some ~a en France. 0 si j'etais en Anyle..
fourteen years ago. An immense terre I,, lint just then the enraged
multitude of people, as usual, thronged English~voman caught sight of a lit-
the "gare de cheucin defer die Nerd" tIe edge of the young girl's satchel,
in Paris. In the second-class waiting- which appeared from under the swell-
room, in one corner, sat a young girl ing folds of Miss Arabella's dress.
about twenty years of age, whose iL 0 / je vruia ideue," said she, now
crimson cheeks, and anxious, almost with still greater indignation, "Quand
tearful eyes gave evidence of the in on met ses sacs sur les baucs, it n'y a.
quietude she felt at finding herself pas de place pour ics vo~,'ageurs.
alone among this mass of people. Oni I"
11cr appearance was unpretending, With these words, she turned to the
but she was dressed with extreme care. young girl. The latter ans~vered in
On the dark-haired head was a hat pure and fluent French, but with much
at once simple and tasteful; a dark- shyness, that, if the other lady would
brown cape covered her shoulders, and adjust herself a little they would have
from under the light-gray dress peeped room enough, in spite of her little
forth a little foot neatly fitted in a satchel; for two persons had sat there
little patent-leather shoe. In her lap before.
was a small satchel; and beside her, on The poor girl nuarucly had time to
the scat, she held with the other hand finish 11cr sentence before she was
a somewhat larger one. Although assailed by a furious storm of abuse
she was squeezed into her corner, so as from the two Englishwomen. Her
to take up as little room as possible, two adversaries seemed determined to
she was evidently afraid lest she might crush her, both by words and actions.
be encroaching upon the rights of Her eyes filled with tears: she took
others by keeping her bag beside her her satchel in her hand, and rose; and
on the seat; but a glance at the floor her adversary instantly appropriated
showed that there was 110 vacant the seat. She stood there alone with
place there for it either. The young her burden, and 11cr tearful glance
girls embarrassment soon increased seemed to say, -
s:ill more. Two Englishwomen, with "If I receive such treatment from
immense crinolines, approached her my own sex, how shall I be dealt with
corner; and, as t~vo gentlemen at that by tile other?"
moment Ilappened to rise, one of tile This little scene, in the midst of all
ladies seated herself in all her amupli- the hubbub and cOnfusion which pre-
tude in the place thus vacated, occupy- vails in a waiting-room, had, as it hap-
ing the space which ought to have pened, an attentive spectator.


82                    IntheWi
At the opposite side of the room
sat a man, who, to judge by appear-
ances, might be a little past thirty.
He had been surevyung the assembled
crowd with indifference, until his
glance fell on the troubled young girl.
His accustomed eye perceived iinme-
diately that she was without any pro-
tector or company. It was while he
was looking at her that the two Eng-
lishwomea appeared; and he thus
witnessed the scene between the three.
He put his hat on the seat he occupied,
and requested his neighbor to have
the kindness to keep it for a lady: he
then went and invited the young girl
to take it, and she shyly and grate-
fully accepted. As she raised her
large blue eyes to thank him for this
civilityy , she met a manly countenance,
whose features expressed satisfaction
at being able to do even so slight a
service to an unprotected woman.
He wore a black Spanish cape, and
had a crape on his hat. The blue
eyes were far calmer now. The con-
sciousness of being an object of consid-
erate attention, even if ever so slight,
is al~vays agreeable to the unprotected,
but especially if they have freshly
been made to feel their unprotected
condition.
She found herself far better off than
while uncomfortable~ squeezed up in
her corner. She threw a glance over
there, and saw that the Englishwomen
had usurped several more seats.
"They are strange people,~~ thought
she. "They do not seem to think of
others at all, but only of themselves."
But she repented this thought di-
rectly, as it seemed to her that it was
mean, and showed spite on her part.
"They may be just as good, although
they have such a manner," said she to
herself. "Probably they are people
of rank, who are accustomed to com-
fort."

de World.
The doors now opened, and all hur-
ried out and into the cars. The lone-
ly one also hastened along, with a
beating heart, and succeeded in get-
ting a seat iminediatelyin the first
eoup~ which she caine to.
"It would have been pleasant if he
had happened to sit in the same car
as I," thought she. "lie looked so
friendly and good. I should have felt
so safe. Still, the worst is over now,
until we come to Cologne; but there it
will be bad again. To stay alone in
a large hotel is disagreeable enough."
She now ventured to cast a hasty
glance around upon her travelling
companions. There was one lady be-
sides herself, who, however, did not
look very friendly. All the others
were gentlemen, who were hanging
their things on the hooks.
The door opened. A head was
thrust in: it was the conductor, who
said, "Here is a seat; hurry up! The
train is just starting."
She looked up at the late comer.
It was he, her protector in the wait-
ing-room. He seemed to be vcry
well pleased, and seated himself in
the vacant place nt her side.
"I have been looking for you, for
I thought that I might perhaps be of
some service to you. You seem to be
alone."
"You are very kind, sir," said she.
But just then she seemed to become
afraid of having said too much to a
stranger; so she took a book out of her
satchel, and began to read. To tell
the truth, she only held it before her
eyes; but her thoughts were occupied
with something else.
"How stupid of me," said she to
herself, "when a person shows me so
much kindness, to set myself to read-
ing, just as he opens a conversation
with me. What if I should say some-
thing to him? Ko: that will not do

In t1~e W
now. Poor Gertrude! you have been
stupid again; but it is not the first
time, Heaven knows.,~
She now began to read in reality.
The stranger took a book from his
pocket, and also began to read; but, as
the rest of the company were soon
engaged in a political discussion, he
laid aside his book, and took a lively
part in it. Gertrude's attention was
now drawn from her book, and she lis-
tened eagerly to the conversation.
"They are a restless people, those
Italians," said a light-complexioned,
thick-set gentleman, with an a
ance which indicated physical well-
being as well as German origin.
"They make a great uproar down
there, as if fire had broken out in
every corner; andyet all this commo-
tion ends in -nothing."
"Are you sure of that?" asked
Gertrude's protector.
"Have you not seen it before? Do
you not remember 1848? What did
they accomplish with their Mazzinis
and Garibaldis? Pooh I"
"One need not always fail because
he has failed once, sir. Least of all
should we doubt a nation's success be-
cause it cannot be achieved at once.
I will only ask you, Do you consider
your own position in Germany - for,
if I am not mistaken, you are a Ger-
man - so very perfect? Is there 1
nothing left for you to desire and
strive for ~
"Gott behiite /" said the German,
who felt that the other now began to 1
tread on his corns. " Gott behUte /
We are certainly no model; but you
see, in Germany, affairs go on at an I
easy pace. The enlightenment of the
people, the enlightenment of the
people, sir: it does not stand so high
in any land in Eurcpe as in Germany; s
and that is the true basis of all ad-
vancement."

ide World.                     38
"In certain parts of Germany,"
said Gertrude's seat-mate, "the er,-
lightenment of the people stands high
enough; but in others I apprehend it
cannot compete with that of the Ital-
ians. And, besides, how do you ex-
pect the Italians to become enlight-
ened under the conditions in which
they now live? The pope and the
secular princes are pretty much alike
in that respect: they are about equally
good promoters of enlightenment."
Two lively Frenchmen now joined
in the conversation. One of them
said, -
"Where liberty is concerned
Frenchmen are always ready to assist;
and ~with our help the Italians will
soon free themselves, both from their
own hateful princes and from the
Austrian yoke."
The German listened to this with a
half sarcastic smile.
"L'enpire c'est 1w pain!" said he,
restraining a laugh over his own wit,
with apparent difficulty. "How can
the peaceful French Empire busy it-
self with other's strifes ?"
"As the enlightened Germans,"
answered the other Frenchman point-
edly, "as the enlightened Germans do
not consider it incompatible with their
principles to practise oppression in
Italy, where they have no business to
be, the peaceful Frenchmen must not
considerr it incompatible with theirs
bo drive them away."
"A people who allow themselves to
'e oppressed,~~ said the German some-
vhat more moderately, "is not worthy
better fate. They are not ripe for
freedom ; and, as far as the French as-
istance is concerned, it remains to be
cen what good it will do."
"That is what you will soon see,"
aid the first Frenchman.
"And as for the theory,~~ said the
ther, "that a people who are op.


84                    I~t the Wi~
pressed are not worthy any thing bet-
ter, it is one of those truths where an
error lurks behind it. With precisely
as much reason might you assert that
a single traveller, who is attacked in
the mountains by a band of highway-
men, and plundered and maltreated
by them, is not worthy any thing bet-
ter, because he does not put them all
to flight."
The man with the crape, or Ger-
trude's protector, as we have also
calledhim, replied smilingly to this:-
"You Germans are men of thought.
You frame theories and systems with
peculiar acumen; but exactly on ac-
count of your strict systematizing,
your theories do not work well in
practic5.~~
"To what nation does he belong
himself?" thought Gertrude. "Ger-
man he is not, neither is he Italian;
for they can be easily recognized by
their strong accent." She made sev-
eral guesses, but could not satisfy her-
self. Finally she was inclined to
take him for an American of French
origin. Her attention was turned
from these reflections by her compan-
ion's beginning to look up his pass-
port; for they were near a boundary-
station, where it was to be shown.
"Mon iDieu I j'ai perdu mon passe-
port I" exclaimed Gertrude, after she
had also looked for her own in vain
in her satchel.
The man with the crape, who heard
this cry of distress, regarded her
with great compassion, and asked if
she was sure that she had lost her
passport.
"Ah, yes!,~ said she. "I was so
afraid of losing it that I carried it in
my hand. When I paid for my tick-
et, I laid it down; and, as the crowd
pressed, I hurried away as soon as I
received the ticket, without remem-
bering the passport."

1e World.
"How far have you taken a ticket ?"
"To Hamburg. Good heavens I
how unlucky I am I,,
She covered her face, and wept bit.
terly.
"Be easy," said her companion.
"It will all be ~ight. I will be re-
sponsible for your getting to Ham-
burg without difficulty."
"God bless you, sir, if you will
help me; but"
She wished to ask how this could
be done; but just then the conductor
thrust his hand through the window.
"Vos passports, messieurs et mes-
dames!" said he.
All delivered their passports, one
after another. Gertrude's heart
throbbed violently; and,~~vlien the
conductor turned to her, she was
going to say that she lad forgotten
her pass in Paris; but she was
checked by her neighbor, who, bend-
ing before her, handed his pass to the
conductor, and said, -
"For both madame and me."
The conductor, who very well re-
m~mbered that the man with the
craps on his hat had peeped into
several cars before he stepped into
this one, only threw a fleeting glance
at Gertrude, and ~vcnt off with the
papers.
"I do not understand how that
was," said she, fastening her large,
expressive eyes on her neighbor;
"but I thank you very munch for your
assistance. I hope I shall make no
further difficulties by my careless-
ness."
"You may be entirely at your ease,
madame," said her neighbor. "If
you will have sufficient confidence in
a stranger to trust yourself to his
protection, ho will render it with real
pleasure. I can well understand that
this may not be agreeable to you; but
it seems to be the only way, at pres-

In the Wi
ent, unless you wieh to stay here and
wait until you can get a new pass-
port."
"That would be impossible." Then
she added, in a lower tone, but with
confidential frankness, "My travel-
ling expenses are closely calculated;
and it is therefore extremely impor-
tant for me to go on without de-
lay."
"Then make yourself entirely com-
fortable. My passport is sufficient
for us both."
"How?"
"I went south with my wife for
the benefit of her health. She found
her grave there instead, and I am re-
turning alone; so that of course my
passport would do for us both. Your
journey is only a day and a half
longer: if you will accept my escort
for that time, under the circumstances,
I will, with great pleasure, see that you
come safe through."
"But what shall I do when I leave
Hamburg? I am going straight on
to Finland."
"To Finland I" said her neighbor:
~' that is very pleasant news."
"Do you know Finland?"
"Somewhat," answered he. "You
can be perfectly easy about your
journey. If I am not too much
mistaken, a steamer sails within a
few days from Liibeck to Helsing-
fors."
"That is just the one I wished to
take; but now"-
"You shall not have any trouble;
never fear. But what can have occa-
sioned you to take so long a journey
alone?"
"I had company when I came
away. The family with whom I left
Finland, a year ago, to cultivate my
voice in Paris, are now residing in
Italy. They were tim come for me a
year from this time; but my longing

de World.                     85
for home became so strong, all at ouce,
that. I could not wait longer."
"Then it is a northernprima donna
that I have the pleasure of travelling
with?"
"I have been persuaded to choose
that career, but I shall not pursue it.
]Vwould rather risk a whole life full of
trials and difficulties than appear in
public."
"But to delight others, and win
applause and fame: that is not a lot
which one ought carelessly to throw
away."
"It may be so for one who has the
taste for it, or the courage. I have
neither; and therefore do not feel in
any way qualified for it."
"You must love your poor native
land very much, however, if you
could feel such a great longing for
home in Paris, the centre of pleasure
and art."
"Yes, indeed I"
"Perhaps you have many relations,
who are longing for you, as much as
you for them?"
"No, not one: my mother is dead,
my father is dead; all are dead."
"Permit me to ask your name
"Gertrude Sj~iding."
Gertrude was on the point of in-
quiring, in her turn, about her com-
panion's name and residence; but she
refrainedd, considering that he would
tell her whatever he chose, without
any questions.
The conversation between the two
soon became extremely lively. He
seemed to interest himself very much
in her native country, and made many
inquiries about matters and things in
Finland. Then it happened that he
found he had met an unusually well-
cultivated and thoughtful girl. She,
on her side, perceived that her travel-
ling companion had a far greater
acquaintance with Finland than i


I

86                   intheWi
commonly found outside of it; and
this gave her so much delight that
she finally expressed her pleasure
aloud.
"You have discovered already,
then," said he, looking at her with
obvious interest, "that your country
and its remarkable features are little
known abroad?"
"Ah, yes!" said she sadly. "I
had prepared myself for it when I
started; but I thought that among
cultivated persons, at least, I should
find some knowledge of Finland; but
I soon perceived that they scarcely
knew its name."
"And this grieved you?"
"How could I help its doing so?"
He regarded her long in silence;
then he said,
"A new era will dawn for Finland,
one day, when all women will be as
well informed about it as you."
They reached Cologne in the even-
ing. The train was to start the fob
lowing morning at nine o'clock from
the town of Deutz, on the other side
of the Rhine. Gertrude's companion
attended to every thing. He had
their baggage examined; and, when
that was done, he took a carriage, and
they went to a hotel in Deuts, where
he secured two rooms near each other.
When the time came, he knocked at
Gertrude's door, and invited her to go
down to the dining-hall and take tea
with him; which she did. She had
in the mean time taken off her hat,
and arranged her beautiful hair. Her
naturally fresh color was heightened
by the journey; and her eyes shone
with confidence. She was really very
pretty; and it was not wonderful
therefore that her protector's eyes
rested upon her innocent face with
great delight.
During the short time since theix
arrival at the hotel, while she wa~

de World.
making her toilet, she had reflected
upon the singular events of that day.
"Am I doing right," said she to her-
self, "to place myself in such de-
pendence upon a person whose name
even I do not know? of whom T.
know nothing, except that he has
shown me friendliness? Might he
not abuse my confidence? No: he is
too noble for that. His look is so
pure, that it cannot conceal any guile;
and so much goodness shines from
his eyes that it would be unworthy
not to feel confidence in him. It
would be cruel to always be obliged
to distrust people. No: my intuition
tells me when I see a face that I
ought to be afraid of."
In the dining-hell of the large
hotel a great company was assembled,
all in full career of satisfying their
appetite, considerably stimulated by
the journey. All conceivable tongues
were spoken; but English, French,
and German predominated. Gertrude
was conducted by her companion to
a small private table, set for two, at
whi~h they seated themselves.
"Many languages are spoken
here," said Gertrude; "and yet how
pleasant itwould be to hear my mother-
tongue again!~~
"Which do you mean ~ asked her
travelling companion, smiling, "Swe-
dish or Finnish?"
"At this moment they would be
equally dear: they are both my na-
tive languages."
He allowed the conversation to drop,
and served Gertrude, who ate with
good appetite. After they had fin-
ished, a waiter brought a half-flask
of champagne and two glasses.
"You must now drink a toast with
me," said her escort. Gertrude re-
ceived the proposition with a cer-
tain anxiety, but one glance at his
honest and benignant face calmed her

In the W
immediately. He filled the glasses,
and clinked his against hers.
"Isiinmaan muistoksi I" said he,
draining his glass.
She stared at him an instant, then
offered him her hand with an. ani-
mated gesture, and exclaimed en-
raptured, -
"You are a Finn! you are a Finn!
God in heaven be praised!"
"You need not cry, need you, for
that?" said he, while his own eyes
grew moist at her lively outburst of
feeling. "I think myself fortunate
to have been of service to you. But
Finland's health," continued he;
"you must not forget to drink it;
and, in order that you may not be
obliged to do it alone, I will drink it
once more, and this time in Swedish:
Lefve Finland I"
Had Gertrude Sj~iding possessed a
brother, and met him unexpectedly,
she would not have felt happier than
she now did. All remaining uneasi-
ness about her home journey was now
at once dispelled. It almost seemed
to her at this moment as if she were
already in her native land again.
"Now, you may reasonably think
it high time that you learned some-
thing more about your travelling com-
panion," said he. "Hitherto you I
have been kind enough to have confi-
dence in his, as I hope, honest face.
I am Lorenzo Fridland; physician by 1
profession. Your name was known
to me before, but I have only known t
you personally to-day."           o
"You would have spared me a part I
of my anxiety, doctor," said Ger- c
trade, playfully reproaching him, tJ
"if you had told me at once that you e:
were a countryman of mine."       e
"That would have destroyed a r~
great pleasure for myself, and there- s
fore my selfishness made me do what ri
I did. It an~se4 u~e to e~.amiue you i~

~de World.                    87
first, and see how much of a Finn you
were."
"And the verdict?"
"Is the highest possible, and that
with all my heart."
"It is to my advantage that you
have been away from your country
for a time: it makes you see me in a
favorable light. How long have you
been abroad, Dr. Fridland?"
"Since a year last spring. My Wife,
in consequence of a violent cold there
at home, brought on quick consump..
tion, and died in the month of Octo-
ber, in Vevey, where we had taken
refuge for the mild climate. Since
then I have roamed in many direc-
tions. I have now for the last four
monVhs been studying in Paris, where
we thus resided at the same time, al-
though unknown to each other."
"Withoutmy carelessnesswe might,
perhaps, not have become acquainted
with each other now."
"It is very possible, for you were
alone and unprotected, and conse-
~uently timid and retiring; and I
should have taken good care not to
annoy you by commencing an ac-
juaintance if I had found it disa-
~reeable to you. As events have
now shaped themselves, however, I
bhink that we might empty another
;lass, just for this acquaintanceof ours.
Co speak frankly, I believe it has
een pleasant to us both."
We might have ended this little
ravelling sketch here; for probably
ur readers will be convinced that
)r. Fridland's passport served ta
conduct Gertrude Sj~iding safely all
be way to Finland. We nmst, nev-
rtheless, in conformity with the truth,
yen at the risk of alarming our lady
mders, acknowledge that we have
arched through all the lists of ar- -
vals, both official and non-official,
the Fianish papers di~ring the au-


38          -           Re~ecce9
tumn in question, but have failed to
find the name of Gertrude Sji~ding;
and not uatil the following fall did
we find among the arrivals an-
nounced, Dr. Lorenzo Fridland and
wife. We confess that we are un-
certain how we ought to interpret
this circumstance.
Where had Gertrude gone?
Had Lorenso Fridland actually
married again shroad? or was this

8 Ma.
report only copied from his pass-
port?
If we assume, on the other hand,
that ~ Fridland was
tile same person as Gertrude Sjod-
ing, we come upon another difficult .
ty -
What could have kept her abroad
a year, when her longing for home
was so strong?
Let casuists decide.

BURNETT'S FLAVORING EXTRACTS.
THE SUPERIORITY OF THESE EXTRACTS CONSISTS IN THEIR PERFECT PURITY AND
GREAT STRENGTH. They are walTanted free from poisonous oils gnd acids which enter into
the composition of many of the factitious fruit flavors now in the market. They are not only
true to their names, but are prepared from fruits of the best quality, and are so highly con-
centrated that a comparatively small quantity only need be used.

REBECCA'S MA.
BY FRED. W. LORIb~G.

REBECCA POTTLESEY is the late
soubrette of tile Plimnix. The Pham-
nix~ as I need not inform my read-
ers, is one of the leading theatres
in the country. Its company is com-
posed of performers of the highest
class, none of whom can be induced
to play secondary parts. This is
according to the American principle
of theatrical management. In the
Phamnix, therefore, you see a few
favorites from time to time, and many
who are not favorites. If Mrs. Agga,
who is one leading lady, plays Ju-
Cia, in "The Hunchback." Miss
Baggs, who is the other leading lady,
cannot be induced to play Helen. In
the same way, when "Love's Sacri-
fice"is put up for the next week, and
Miss Baggs appears as Margaret El-
were, Mrs. Aggs is heard calmly to

remark, that she "should like to see
anybody make her play Herminie de
Vaudmont," meaning that she should
not like to see anybody make her play
the part alluded to.
This state of affairs, though vexa-
tious to the manager, and disappoint-
ing to the public, is beneficial to the
soubrette, who is not only left in pos-
session of the impossibly pert chaul-
bermaids, and boys with curly hair
and feminine contours (two classes
of characters, I may here renlark,
found only on the stage and never in
Nature), but at times has a ellanco to
sparkle through the light comedy
parts disdained by the Aggscs and
the Baggses of our theatres. So
Rebecca Pottlesey took all she could
get from the manager in the way
of business, and all she could get

Rebec
from the public in the way of ap-
plause, bouquets and presentations.
Heartsease and Ilobb, the florists1
whose store is in profitable proximity
to the theatre, have so realized the
blessing that Miss Pottlesey has been
to them in the way of business, that, on
her last annual benefit, they presented
her with all the unsold bouquets in
their front window, making twenty-
seven in all, that the victorious Re-
becca received on that memorable
occasion, which number was five snore
than Miss Baggs received on her ben-
efit, and eight more than were be-
stowed upon Mrs. Aggs, when that
worthy and deserving artist was a
beneficiary.
"Miss Baggs," said Miss Pottlesey,
"took occasion to say, in her spiteful
way to me, that, since my benefit came
later in the season than hers, flowers
were cheaper, which might account
for my having more bouquets thass
she did; but my only answer to this
outburst of spleen was a contemptis-
ous smile, which I am sure she
felt."
Now, iebecca Pottlescy has one
serious drawback as an actress. She
can sing, she can dance, she is not
troubled with diffidence. She has
versatility. When you hear her de-
clare, on Thursday night, that she is
a poor orphan with nO protector but
I-Leaven, you are so moved by her
sweet ingenuousness, by the plaintive
tone of her voice, by the graceful way
in which her long brown hair flows
over her shoulder, that you cannot
realize that she is the boy in stylish
coat and trousers, who smoked a cigar,
said "You bet ~' ,and "Old horse," and
winked in a fascinating manner, dur-
ing the progress of the rattling farce
of Wednesday. With all these quali-
ties of a successful actress, what can
be the deficiency of Rebecca Pettle-

ca's Ma.                .        39
sey? My ans~ver is brief, but telling.
- She has 110 soother.
Here I pause, for the purpose of
* allowing the kind-hearted to say,
"Poor girl! The stage is indeed a
terrible place to be in, or on, without
* a mother's sympathy, influence, and
protection." Tile kind-hearted people
who say this are right. But it is not
so much on account of these things,
as in a business point of view, that
Ilebecca's lack of a mother is to be
regretted. Miss Baggs has a mother.
Miss Caggs, the walking-lady, has a
soother. Even the ladies of tile bal-
let are accompanied from the theatre
by dingy-looking females, whom they
are heard to address as "Ma!~~
The use of a mother to a popular
actress is obvious. Who can so ur-
gently and indefatigably besiege a
manager ~vith applications for tile
privileges and perquisites which every
actress desires? Who can so well
guard tile tender flower from too close
ol)servation? Who can so ~vell watch
in the dressing-room while the per-
former is on the stage? And who
can so well discourse on the artistic
merits and general popularity of an
actress as the ma of that actress. The
first time I went behind tile scenes
at tile Phe Ilix was in tile morning.
Unused to the place, I stopped at the
green-room door, wondering if that
was where the rehearsal was, and if
there I should find the manager, with
whom I had business to transact.
Four ladies, elderly, dingy, nnd of
severe aspect, were wildly gesticulat-
ing. I supposed it ~vas a scene from the
new piece, and stood observing them.
"How impressive," thought I, "is
this devotion to art! These women,
absorbed in their elsarneters, forget
tile existence of the outside world, and
do not notice my presence, absorbed
as they ate in the ideg~L"


40                        Rebecc
It was at this moment that the
doorkeeper touched me, and said, -
"The manager is this way, at re-
hearsal, sir."
"Why," said I, in some surprise,
"isn't this rehearsal ?"
"No, sir," said the doorkeeper, with
a smile.
"Who are these ladies?" I asked.
"I thought surely they were acting;
they seemed so earnest."
The doorkeeper grinned. "Them,"
said he, "is inns of different ladies
in the company, and they're going on
about their daughters. They almost
always does when they gets together.~~
It was then, for the first time, that
I realized how much a mother was to
a dramatic performer. The life of
the stage is terribly full of temptation,
and quite as likely to destroy feminine
modesty and reserve as a course of
fashionable society flirtations.
Rebecca Pottlesey was a shrewd,
sensible, and energetic girl. She en-
joyed her profession, and worked hard
at it. She was, however, a woman, and
alonein theworld,-adisadvantageous
position, which she fully appreciated.
She feltthatshemusthaveaprotectress
at least; and on one night, when Miss
Baggs made some spiteful remark
about girls who had no one to look
after them, - no pa nor ma, - being
deserving of pity rather than blame,
Itebecca, raging inwardly, replied,-
"I quite agree with you, Miss
~3aggs. I've thought so, all along
this season; and I wrote to Ma, last
week, telling her she must come and
stay with me."
In dismayed astonishment, Miss
Jlaggs stared at Rebecca. "Why,"
said she, "I didn't know you had a
mother!"
"I trust,~' said Rebecca, "I don't
need to carry my ma with me all the
time, as a certificate of character."

a's Ma.
And Miss Bagge, crushed and de
fated, could only console herself by
the thought that she had now some-
tIming in the way of news to tell her
companions; and, before an hour had
passed, the very walls of the dressing-
rooms re-echoed with the words, -
"Rebecca Pottlesey has got a ma!,,
This conversation took place on
Saturday night. The next fortnight
was devoted to a piece in which Re-
becca did not appear: Taking ad-
vantage of this fact, Rebecca went to
Now York, and there secured a com-
panion in the shape of an elderly
lady, by name Bullington. The ex-
act articles of confederation between
Rebecca and her ma have never been
made public; but they amounted to
this:-
Rebecca agreed to supply her nomi-
nal ma with board, lodging, and a
moderate weekly stipend.
The ma agreed to supply Rebecca
with apparent parental affection.
She was to accompany her, as a rule,
to the theatre; she was to decline in-
vitations for her; she was to aid her
in the composition of dresses for the
stage; she was to gaze on her fondly
when they were together, and to be
lojid in her praises when they were
apart; and, in short, was to fulfil all
the duties that may reasonably be ex-
pected from the mother of an actress.
I was fortunate enough to witness
the advent of Rebecca's Ma. Stand-
ing at the green-room door in conver-
sation with tIme manager, I beheld
Rebecca descending the stairs from
her dressiug-room, arrayed in the
jaunty costume of ,Susan, the bar-
maid, in the roaring farce of "Trot-
ting 11cr Out." Around the green-
room were seated several ladies and
gentlemen, some studying, others
talking.
~ said Rebecca, addressing

Rebece
her comrades comprehensively "is my
Ma."
"I am glad to see you," said Re-
becca's Ma, in a somewhat agitated
tone of' voice. She was a small wo-
man dressed in deep black, with a
damp and tearful voice. I think I
never saw a woman who appeared, if
I may be allowed the expression, so
crapy and so bombaziny. As she
stood gazing upon the crowd, which
comprised a stage-baron, who was a
respectable sort of villain; his minion,
who had a false hump on, and was
therefore plainly a low and degraded
villain; and a faithful old family ser-
yant with a red nose, - she appeared
to be somewhat alarmed.
"Don't be frightened, ma," said
Rebecca. Then, turning to the com-
pany, she explained that her mother
had never been in a theatre before,
as she had only recently arrived from
her country home. A beam of de-
light simultaneously illuminated the
features of the baron, his minion, and
the faithful family servant; and any
one familiar with them might readily
have perceived that they saw in Re-
becca's ma material for future hoaxes.
It took a long time for Rebecca's
ma to accustom herself to the mys-
teries of the stage. In the begin-
ning, she was continually getting en-
tangled in the ropes, or sinking slowly
through what she alluded to in a dis-
gusted tone as "them traps." She
could not be cleared off the stage, at
the commencement of the act. As
the curtain rose, her dress would be
seen vanishing at the wings. On one
occasion, she was caught in the cur-
tain, and her venerable ankles were
elevated some six feet before the
amused audience. After this, she
never went upon the stage, without
carefully pinning up her skirt, as
though she were about to cross a pud-

~as Ha.                        41
die in a thunder-shower. The remon-
strances of the manager, and the di..
reactions of Rebecca, gradually im-
proved her behavior. She would see
the play, and would stand at the
wings t~ do so. This habit~although
not objectionable in itself, became
somewhat annoying, as Rebecca's Ma
gave way easily to her feelings, some.
times to an absurd extent. On the
comic passages, she gazed with a stony
severity. This was not owing to
any deficiency in the appreciation of
humor; but may be explain&amp;rby a
remark that she addressed to Flyn-
ders, the low comedian, one night af-
ter he had finished singing his cele-
brated song, "The Roasted Cat." "I
declare," said she, "it's too bad that
them folks in frcnt laugh so, and put
you out! I want to laugh myself,
but I'm happy to say I can restrain
myself."
Her power of self-control, however,
utterly failed her when she witnessed
any thing pathetic. On such occa-
sions she sobbed audibly. Remon-
strance caused her to define her posi-
tion thus: -
"Emotion," said Rebecca's Ma, "is
not a thing that can be repressed by
a feeling heart; and a feeling heart
is what I have always been known to
have, therefore I cannot repress it.
Had I been Constance, I should have
cried, and took on dreadful. Not be-
ing Constance, I cries, and takes on
dreadful all the same."
Notwithstanding her slight eccen-
tricities, Rebecca's Ma soon became a
great favorite with the company.
She was devoted to Rebecca, who
treated her in the sweetest possible
way. She was of great help in
dressing and sewing, and attending to
the thousand little niceties of a the-
atrical wardrobe. Only once did she
lose her temper while she was in the


42                        Rebee
theatre. The good lady ~vore a fals
front and a cap. A clumsy sceae~
shifter left a ~nail in the framework of
a screen which caught the cap and
front, and pulled them off together~
disclosing I~ebecca's Ma in all he:
baldness to the passing members of
the company. No words can describe
the lqok of disgusted wrath with
which ~ebecca's Ma gazed on him as
he sto~d there laughing, and said, -
"Elijah was mocked at by boys for
being bald. Do you know what hap-
pened to them boys?"
"No,~~ said the man half sullenly.
"They was ate up by bears," re-
turned Rebecca's Ma impressively;
"and let it be a warning." She then
burst into tears, and retreated to Re-
becca's dressing-room, where she re-
mained the rest of the evening.
One night, the performance ended
with "Black-eyed Susan," Douglas
Jerrold's beautiful and touching little
play. The trial scene, ~vhere William,
is condemned to death, was on, whena
low, smothered cry, audible only to
those on the stage, ~vas heard; and
Rebecca's Ma was seen to fall fainting
at the wing. A crowd of sympa-
thetic friends gathered around her, as
she was carried into the green-room,
and inquired the cause of her fainting-
fit; to which she replied that it arose
from seeing the play.
"Really, Miss Pottlesey," said the
manager, half vexed, to Rebecca, "if
your mother will take acting so much
to heart, she must not be allowed to
come to the wings.~~
Upon this, Rebecca's Ma sat up.
"It isn't always, nor yet often, that
I take on so," said she; "but that
play brings up about my son George,
who went away to sea, and whom I
shall never see again."
And then she told her story.
George was on the ship "Falconia."

ca'8 .35a.

The men mutinied, and George among
them. The captain seized the iing-
leaders, and bad them shot. George,
I who was a mere boy, was left with
two others on an island in the Pacilic.
Then his father died at home; and
his mother was left in destitution and
solitude.
"Until she," said Rebecca's Ma,
"came to my aid like a angel as she is,
and saved me from starvation. And
if," said Rebecca's Ma, suddenly flani-
ing up, "I could ketch a-hold of that
critic of 'The Daily Investigator,'
which Rebecca was crying over yes-
terday, I'd let him kmiow what the
Bible says about them as judges oth-
ers, and considerest not the beam that
is in thine own eye."
With this somewhat mixed sen~
tence, Rebecca's Ma concluded. No
one laughed; for the story she had
told was a sad one; and she told it
as one who had suffered, and not like
a repeater of bare facts. But, after
this time, there was a vague report
that Rebecca's Ma was not the real
article, but a substitute. Still Rebec-
ca's Ma and Rebecca herself had by
this time grown to be so much liked
by the other members of the compa-
ny, that even Miss Baggs refrained
from unpleasant remarks. The mild
behavior of Miss Baggs, though, may
perhaps be explained by the fact that
she now reigned undisputed in the
position of leading lady; Mrs. Aggs
having taken umbrage and departed.
My story must now leap over the
winter holidays into the spring. Busi-
ness was light, except on the benefit
nights; and Rebecca fell into the
habit of glancing over the partially
filled house night after night to see
whom she knew there. This habit
caused her to notice a man of some
twenty-five years of age, with bronzed
face and full brown beard, who wildly

I

I

liebece
applauded h~r, and seemed complete-
ly absorbed in watchingg hcr umove-
ments. One night he appeared ~vith
an enormous bouquet, ~vhich he es-
sayed to throw two or three times;
but then his courage failed him, and,
after flourishing it before the eyes of
the audience, he held it placidly in his
lap during the rest of the evening.
Rebecca found herself, as it were,
fascinated by him. She saw that she
pleased him; and yet he was modest
and abashed, - a sort of behavior
that was new to Miss Pottlesey both
on and off the stage.
One night in April, Rebecca's Ma
complained of a toothache, and de-
clined to accompany Rebecca to the
theatre. Rebecca was perfectly con-
tented at this, and determined to
take a street-car home after the per-
formance. In doing so, an adven-
ture with a drunken man fell to her
lot.
I am now going, by ~ bald and un-
varnished narration of facts, to sacri-
fice na opportunity of making fame
and fortune as a writer. With my
knowledge of the exquisite humor of
the farce of "Toodles," I might fill
several pages with descriptions of the
person and behavior of this drunken
man. His language, too, might flow
from this fertile pen with fine effect,
it is so easy, by dropping every alter-
nate vowel and every third consonant,
to transfer to paper the drunken dia-
lect of fiction and the drama. But I
will not. With a sigh, I simply re-
cord that the drunken man asked Re-
becca for a kiss, and Rebecca told him
to "go away; " that the drunken man
then moved forward, and some one
behind him knocked him down on the
sidewalk, where he lay peaceably.
Here, again, I nip my description in
the bud, and briefly state that Re-
becca immediately recognized in her

es's Ala.                      48
defender her modest admirer with
the full beard.
"I am very much obliged to you,
sir," said she.
"Not as much as I am to you," he
returned. Then, in a disconnected
manner, he broke forth, -
"0 Miss Pottlesey I I think you are
the greatest actress I ever saw."
Rebecca laughed. "Then you
can't have seen many," said she.
"But I cannot stop here any longer.
I shall be pleased if you would call on
me next Sunday evening, that I may
more fully thank you."
Need I say that the invitation was
accepted with effusion; that he went
one way, perfectly silent for joy, and
that she hummed comic songs to her-
self all the way home in the horse-
car.
Sunday came in its time, and Re-
becca sat waiting for her visitor. She
did not have to wait long. As soon
as it could possibly be called evening,
the hell rang, and he appeared. Re-
becca and Rebecca's Ma both arose.
"I am so glad to see you!" said
Rebecca, taking his hat. "This is my
ma, Mr. - Do you know, I forget
to ask your name."
"My name," said the stranger, "is
Bulhington, - George Bullington."
"George Bullington!" said Re-
becca's Ma.
He looked at her an instant; and
then, with one tremendous cry of
"Mother!" he caught her to his
breast. Rebecca's Ma did not die;
she did not even faint: she only cried,
and he cried; and Rebecca herself
had just presence of mind enough
left to go out of the room and cry and
laugh, finally winding up her per-
formanceby giving three small piping
cheers to herself, and indulging in a
sort of war-dance. Then she went
back, and heard George Builington


What happened to the Kkan.

tell how he worked his way around
the world back home, and how he
grew rich by luck in China, and how
he came back and hunted vainly for
the mother he supposed he had lost
forever.
"That was all owing to me," said
Rebecca remorsefully.
"I forgive you," said George Bul-
lington.
Of course, every one rloAw sees the
end. Of course, Rebecca couldn't do
without her Ma; and, of course,
George Bullington wasn't going to be
deprived of his natural parent with-
out a struggle. Then, on subsequent
visits, instead of Rebecca's leaving
the room, as at first, Rebecca's Ma
herself disappeared. The result of
all this has been, that Rebecca Pot..
tiesey has left a vacancy in the posi-
tion of soubrette to be filled at the
Phoenix~ This summer will witness

the departure of Rebecca and Re-
becca's Ma to San Francisco, where
Mr. George Bullington's business
head-quarters are to be. This infor-
mation I gather from a letter to my
friend, the manager; to which letter
a postscript is attached, which, as it
is decidedly misty to the manager,
and obscure to myself, I place before
the eyes of an intelligent public:-
"P.8.-I desire to say a word or
two myself, before shaking y~ur dust
off of my feet forever. Whe4 I used
to get in the way, why don't you
blame your attaches; for clumsy they
were, and clumsy they are, and ever
will be, unless changed. In conclu-
sion I would remark, that I regard
myself as merely a means to an end;
and, as such, trust you will favorably
remember she who now signs herself
playful,          REBECCA'S MA."

WHAT HAPPENED TO THE KHAN AND THE POOR MAN'S SON.
A TARTAR FAIRY TALE.
(Translated by J. P. Lesley.]
[Tna following is the "Second Talc" of the narrative of Siddhi-Kilr, of which
we have previously given one.~ For introduction, it is only necessary to recall, that
the King has been allotted the task of bringing under the power of one who has
befriended him, Siddhi-Kiir (Death endowed with supernatural power). He has
the means of compelling this; but one condition is, that, after he has got possession
of Siddhi-Kiir, he must himself speak no word until he has accomplished his return.
He has already failed in one attempt, and now addresses himself again to the task.
The resemblance of some of the details of this &amp;iry tale to those of Europe - For.
tunatus, Cinderella, Puss in Boots, &amp;e. - will occur to every reader; but the charming
naivet6 of the narrative, and its simple directness and spirited action, has never been
excelled. Its Tartar dress is well marked, and the primitive manners of a nomadic
people are always taken for granted.]

SECOND TALE.
Tuu King returned to the cool
Grove of the Dead, as in the former
trial, to recover the Siddhi-Kllr;
and putting himself in attitude, as if
to hew down the Mango-tree, cried,
"Ho, Death I come down, or I will fell
the tree."
"Fell not the tree," it replied, "I
shall come down;" and it came down
accordingly. Then he stuck it into
his sack, bound it with the cord, ate
of his provender, threw it across his
shoulders, and marched off with it.
After the lapse of several days,
spake Siddhi-Kiir: "Because the day
is long, we ennui ourselves; tell thou
me a pretty story; if not, then will I
tell one thee." The Khan made no
reply, but only gave a sign with his
~)ead~ and so the Siddhi-Kiir began
Another tale.
Long, long ago, there reigned over
a great, far distant country, a mighty
Khan. And at the head of a certain
river in it was a great pool, and in
this pool lived two Dragon-Frogs, who
had the power to stop the flow of the

fertilizing river-waters, which then no
longer overspread the fields. So must
they send yearly to these Dragon-
Frogs a man, and alternately, without
distinction, noble and low-born, to be
devoured.
Once upon a time, it happened that
the lot fell upon the Khan. Now, if
he would not go, why, seeing that the
thing was indispensable for the king-
dom, it was impossible not to go. If,
on the contrary, he would go, why,
then, both father and son (for nobody
except Khan pare and Khan fils was
there to go), tortured themselves with
the questionwhich of the two should go.
The father said, "I am now old;
it is no hurt for me. I will go; let
our country, 0 my son! expatiate
itself under instruction."
On the other hand, replied the son,
"Howl 0 my father! Thou, my
Khan and father, who hast so care-
fully considered my inheritance, and
brought me up, shalt thou go? That
were never proper. Since the Khan
and his lady still live, they can have
another son if they please. I go for
food to the frogs." And, as he went,

1 Oa AID NEW, Vol.1L p. 480.

44A

Rebecca's .Ma.

46


46               What h~ppene
the entire nation betook themselves
to attend him, weeping and wailing,
and then turned back.
The young man had had, from child-
hood up, a poor man's son for friend.
To this friend he now went, and said,
"Walk after the words of thy father
and mother, farewell, and be happy.
To preserve the precious royal realm,
and to make the Khan's command ir-
reversible, I go as food for the Frogs."
All sad and weeping, spake the poor
man's son, "Thou hast, 0 Khan! from
children up, entreated me with good-
will and goodness: in stead of thee, I
will go." But the Khan ivould lend
no ear to this proposal. Then went
they both, the Prince and his friend,
together.
And, as they drew' nigh the pool,
they heard the two Frogs, the yellow
and the green, upon its bank, convers-
ing; and thus they spake to one an-
other: "Did but this Khan's son nnd
his companion know, that if they
were to smite off with a club the head
of each of us two, and the Klian's son
were to eat me, the gold-yellow frog,
and the poor man's son, you, the em-
erald-green frog, they would both spit
pure gold and precious stones, and
this foddering of' frogs in future
would be made impossible. But they
know nothing about it."
Listening to this conversation, the
Khan understood the saying of the
Frog; for he understood the language
of every kind of creature. So the
Prince and his servant smote off the
Frogs' heads with a club; and when
they had eaten each his one, they
could spit gold and jewels as mueh as
they chose. Then said the servant,
"Since we have killed the Frogs, and
caused the water to flow, let us now
get home." But the Khan's son was
not for that. "If we return," said
he, "to our own land, they will cry,

ci to the Khan.
'The dead have arisen and are come
again!~ If, on the contrary, we travel
far from here into another land, that
will be better." With that they
crossed over a mountain pass and
were gone.
Almost at the foot of the mountain,
on the other side, they came to the
home of two exquisitely fair women,
mother and daughter, whosold brandy.
"We would buy some brandy,~~ they
said. The women asked, "What
price will you give for the brandy?"
They spat some gold and jewels, and
handed them over. The two women
found that pleasant, let them come in,
and, giving them brandy in abun-
dance, made them drunk, forced them
to spit more gold and precious stones,
took it all, and finally turned them
into the street.
When conic again to themselves,
they travelled on; for they knew no
other way, farther and further, to the
mouth of a river. Here they encoun-
tered a troop of youngsters quarrel-
ling among themselves in the middle
of a grove of palms. "What fight ye
over?,~ asked they them. The young-
sters answered, "We have found a
bonnet on this palm, and are fighting
for it." "What can one do with it,
then?~~ asked they. The youngsters
answered, "Whoever wears it is in-
visible from gods and men and de-
mons." "Now, then, if so, go all of
you to the end of this palm-tree
woods, and then come running back
for a wager. I will hold the cap in
stake, and give it to the one who first
arrives." So enid the Khan's son.
But when the youngsters came run-
ning from the end of the palm-grove
for the wager, they could not see them,
although they remained there all the
while, the poor man's son with the
bonnet on his head. "They were
here just then," cried the youngsters;

I

What happene

"now they are gone." And as, with
all their searching, they could not find
the cap, they made their way back,
crying and howling loud.
A little farther yet, upon a great,
broad road, the travellers fell upon a
troop of devils, quarreling among
themselves. "What fight ye over?"
asked they both. "Over these boots,"
they cried. And ivhen the question
came, what could one do with them,
they answered, "Whoever has them
upon his feet can reach whatever
place he thinks of." "Well, if that
be so, come, run a race from the end
of this broad bit of road, and whoever
gets here first shall have the boots."
When they nil got through the race,
he had the boots in his bosom, and
stuck the cap on his head, and the de-
mons could not see him; and they
could not find the boots, and so they
beat a retreat.
Now Prince and follower each
dre~v on one boot, and wished that
they might be in some country which
had now no Khan, and exactly before
the throne was to be occupied. The
wish expressed, they fell asleep.
When they a~voke next day, and
looked about, they found themselves
on an election-ground, at a throning-
time, in the midst of a great hollo~v
tree. A great assembly had this day
assembled. "Under tIme decision of
heaven," - such was the prescribed
form, - "we thmroiv a figure of dough
from off the height ivith a scatter-
offering; on whoever head this Baling
lights, him ~ve install our Khan."
The fateful Baling struck the hol-
low tree. All cried out, "What,
shall a king's throne over inca come
out of a tree?" But seine said,
"What is in the inside of the tree?
No man knows, let us look." As
they looked, the Khan's son and
his companion made their appearance.

ci to the Khan.                47
But nobody felt any confidence in
them. "They are folks from a far-off
land," said they to one another. "To-
morrow we will try the spitting-test."
And so they dissolved the assembly.
Next day, some, who had drunk
milk, spat white; others, who had
eaten greens, spat green; in short,
each spat after his own sort. But
when the Khan's son had spitten gold,
and the hungcr-bitten man's son pre-
cious stones, both of them said, "Khan
and Minister of this kingdom are we;"
and so they were, both of them, Kha4l
and Minister.
The late Khau had a charming
daughter, whom our Khan's son took
to wife. In the neighborhood of the
Prince's residence wa~ a great high
palace. Because the Princess betook
herself to this every day, the Minister
considered, "Why goeth the Princess
every day to that palace?" So think-
ing, he clapped his bonnet on his head,
followed the Princess thither, opened
the doors, and by a light ladder
reached the palace-top. Here com-
fortable, high, silken bolsters were
outspread, inviting to sit down, and
here, where all kinds of eatables and
drinks stood ready, the Princess
whiled away her time, having changed
herconiinon garments and other things
to suit, and clad herself in silks, and
prinked herself up most charmingly
with bathing nnd anointments of
sweet odors and the like, while san-
dal-~vood and other perfumed wood8
were burnt before her.
The Minister, with his cap ~n,
visible to gods, demons, and men,
seated himself near her; and, after a
~vhile, there cam~ down rushing out
of the air, a very charming bird.
The Princess welcomed it, burning
more perfumed wood. With the cry,
"Tok! tok 1"it alighted upon a very
fine stone slab on the palace-roof;


48                What happene
and out of the bird stepped forth
the charming god's son, Cuklaketu,
of beauty beyond the reach of man's
imagination. After mutual embraces,
he reclined himself upon the soft silk
bolster-cases, and they regaled him
with all kinds of food and drink.
Then said the god's son, "Now thou
hast a heaven-appointed husband;
how does he behave?" At which
words the Princess replied, "How the
Prince promises to be, I do not know;
he is yet young; as yet, I have ac-
quired no information respecting his
early good qualities or failings."
After this interview, they separated
for the day. The Princess put on
again her common clothes, and went
back to the Khan. When, some days
afterwards, she did the same again,
and the Minister followed her, the
god's son said to her, that day, "To-
morrow, early, I will appear in the
likeness of a lark, to visit thy hus-
band." The Princess answered, "So
let it be," upon which they separated
for that day.
ButtheMinisterinformedtheKhan,
that in that palace the charming,
beautiful god's son Cukiaketa dallied;
in short, recounted the whole story.
"Early to-morrow morning," he con-
tinued, "will this person appear, to
yisit you, in the form of a lark.
Order a tremendous fire to be built
to-morrow, in the place where he
alights. I will seize him by his tail-
feathers, and throw him into the fire;
then hew hm and kill him with the
sword." In this wise made the Min-
ister his preparations.
Now, the next day, in the early
morning, as the Khan and his wife,
with the rest, sat all together in a row,
came the god's son, in the form of a
little parti-colored, larklike bird, over
the threshold and alighted. Whilst
the Princess, with her heart full of

d to th~ K/tan.

inward joy, looked around, the Minis-
ter set upon his head his invisiblc-
making cap, seized suddenly, at the
right moment, the lark by the tail,
and threw it into the fire. Just as
the Khan bethought himself of hew-
ing it to pieces with his sword, and
stood near her; the Princess grasped
his hand so that he could not draw
his sword; and the bird rose with his
fire-singed wings through the air and
flew away. "Ah, the poor thing!"
cried the Princess, and was seized
with an anguish which amounted to
a swoon.
When, now, some days afterwards,
she went again, the Minister followed
her as usual. As before, she spread
her coverlets. When all was ready,
and the god's son, in spite of her long
waiting for him, did not appear, then
tortured she herself sorely, and sat,
with an unwanted look, merely gazing
out up into heaven. At last, and late,
the bird came flying crookedly, badly
ill-used by his late accident, covered
with blisters, and dripping with dirty
blood and watery matter. Thus step-
pedhe forth from out his bird disguise.
The Princess wept at the sight of him~
The god's son said, "Weep not; thy
present husband is armed with a high-
er powerfulness; unhappily, I have
been fire-burnt; since this, my body,
has been singed, I cannot come to
thee." The Princess answered, "Oh,
say not so I thou must come as hereto-
fore." So they agreed to meet on the
fifteenth of every month. Thereupon
the god's son flew off through the air.
But the Princess, from now on, enter-
tained more and always more confi-
dencein, and incli.nationfor, the Khan.
In conclusion, the Minister once
more put his bonnet on, andwent forth.
He arrived at a temple. As here he
peeped through a crack of the door,
he remarked how a watchman of the

temple spread out the image of an
ass, painted on a paper roll; and,
when he had rolled upon it to and fro,
he became changed into a great ass,
stood up, brayed loud, and galloped
hither and thither; and, when he had
rolled upon it a second time, he am
feared once more in his true human
form. Thea he folded his paper to-
gether, and stuck it into the hand of
a Buddha.
After Ise had gone out, and was at a
distance, the Minister stepped in, and
took the paper to himself. With this
he went to the two brandy-selling wo-
men, mother and daughter, who had
formerly behaved so ill. Said he, "I
am come to pay you for your noble be-
havior;" and ~vith these words, he
handed them three pieces of gold, in
order to deceive them. "Ah 1" said
the two females, "thou art an excel-
lent man. Through what fortunate
chance art thou possessed of such an
exhaustless fount of gold?" "Now,"
replied the Minister, "this, my gold,
have I earned by rolling to and fro
upon this folded paper sheet." The

49

women said, "If so, let both of us
roll on it." Said he, "Yes, that may
be."
And, when they h~sd rolled, they
were changed into two she-asses. He
led them to the Khan, and advised
him to put them to hauling stone and
dirt. The Khan assigned to them
that sort ofwork; and, after they had
dragged earth and stones three years,
their backs were rubbed quite raw,
dropping foul blood and matter.
From their eyes, which looked towards
the Khan, tears started; and the
Khan said to the Minister, "Do those
two asses no more harm, although they
be worthy of punishment." After
they had rolled a second time on th~e
paper, they became two old and
scarcely living women.
"Oh, the poor things!" cried out,
at these words of the story, the King;
and Siddhi-Ktlr replied, "Trilling
away his luck, the King has let words
slip from out of his mouth!" and
with the exclamation, "In the world
it is not good to stay," he stormed in
flight away.

JONAS WHITCOMB'S REMEDY,
FOR ASTHMA, ROSE COLD, HAY FEVER, &amp;o.
Extract from the "Life of Washington Irving," by his nephew, Pierre 14. Irving, Volume
IV, page 272:-
"The doctor prescribed, as an experiment, - what had been suggested by Dr. (0. W.)
Holmes on his late visit, - 'Jonas Whitcomb's Remedy for Asthma'; a teaspoonful in a
wine.glass of water, to be taken every four hours. A good night was the result."
"I have had the spasmodic asthma for fifteen years. I commenced taking 'Jonas Whit.
comb's Remedy for the Asthma' eighteen months ago, and have not had a severe paroxysm
s:nce."-SARAH SEELY, Eddytown, Yates Co., N. V., to the editors of Rural New Yorker.
Y "Have sold 'Whitcomb's Remedy' for nearly twenty years. I know of nothing so uni.
formly successful."-THEonoaz METCALF, Druggist, Tremont Street, Boston,

What happened to Ike Akaaz.


The Companion of Paradise.
THE COMPANION OF PARADISE.
BY IIENiSY A. MILES.

ETHEBE has come down to us quite a
body of Hebrew legends, which have at-
tracted little notice, but are worthy of
study. Many of them are far more beau-
tiful and instructive than the legends of
the Roman Catholic Church. These deal
largely in astounding miracles; while the
Hebrew legends are more frequently
founded on natural events, and offer no
violence to prpbability. Beautiful aspects
of Divine Providence, a sweet and tender
humanity, the duty of cheerful resigna-
tion and trust, take the place of the wild
stories of saints with which the "Golden
Legend" abounds ; while we are occa-
sionally surprised at the simple and beau-
tiful manner in which are suggested
~limpses of what we call, at the present
Jay, the most advanced spiritual truth.
We offer to our readers a little story of
'isis kind. It is found in "Christiani ed
~ibrei nel Medio Evo," by Prof. Giuseppe
uevi, published in Florence in 1806, from
the celebrated press of Monnier, in that
city. We translate from the Italian the
legend which is called "The Companion
of Paradise."
Our aim has been to present the storu
in its essential facts, without any attempt
at a lexicographical translation. We
have therefore felt at liberty to omit some
sentences, to blend others together, and,
while we follow the order of events, to
give, in the idiom of our own language, a
narrative which we think wili reward at-
tention.]
RABBI SOLOMON of Worms had
reached his sixtieth year. He was
now employed wholly in the thought
of heaven and eternity. Passing in
review the sacred studies and honored
works of his long life, he would at
times abandon himself to a ravishing
confidence of being welcomed after
death among the blessed, and admit-
fed to taste eternal felicity. In the

ecstasy of his hope he would imagine
himself as already in heaven, seated
on a throne of gold, crowned with
gems, at a banquet of celestial joys,
for which no human tongue has name.
But at that banquet the blessed sit
opposite one another, two by two; and
the souls of each couple are mingled
together as one, so that they have one
sense, one joy, for eternity.
Who ~vill be his companion at that
celestial feast?
The desire to know this took such
a hold upon the mind of Rabbi Solo-
mon, that lie could not abandon it. It
accompanied him in all his studies, in
his ~vatchings and dreams, withoutt
one moment of respite. Of course,
God alone could reveal to him that
grand secret of heaven; so to God he
applied himself devoutly. By long
fasts, ~tad protracted at~d fervent
prayer, lie tried to obtain the favor
so dear to him.
One night it seemed in his sleep
that there stood before him a female
form of angelic aspect; and a voice
whicli sounded more than human said
to him, "Your companion of paradise
shall be Abraham Ben Gerson, called
the Righteous, in Barcelona."
"Abraham Ben *Gerson!', said
Rabbi Solomon to himself, when lie
a~voke. "This is a strange thing. I
do not know such a man, and never
heard of him."
Now, the good rabbi had imagined
that his companion would be one of
those great doctors whose fame then
filled the Hebrew ~vorld. Only such
a person was worthy, as it appeared
to him, to be at his side in heaven.
And that name5 so obscure, so un-

50

The C'ompanio
known, sounded in his mind as an
affront.
"Never mind," at length he said
to himself. "This may be one of
those learned men who through great
modesty jealously hide from the world
their wisdom, and the sanctity of
their works, and in thg secrecy of
domestic life pass all their dais in
sacred study.~~
So in imagination he represented.
his future companion as a venerable
old man, with his long beard covering
his breast, leaning on his elbow over
the sacred writings, worn, wasted, and
fleshless, through fasting and prayer,
absorbed late at night in profound
and devout meditation.
Then there entered into his mind
an ardent desire to know in this world
that holy old man who was to be his
inseparable companion in eternity,
and to form here one link in that
interminable chain which would thie:re
forever join them together. He re-
solved to go to Barcelona to find his
predestined companion.
- Arrived in that city, he made im-
mediate inquiries for one Abraham,
called the Righteous. But no one
couhi give him the least account of
such a person. Among the Hebrews
of that place there were many who
bore the name of Abraham; but no
one of these could merit the title
righteous.
Rabbi Solomon was bewildered.
"So the celestial vision has mocked
me I But perhaps my future com-
panion so hides the sanctity of his
life that no perfume of it has got
abroad. I will inquire farther. I do
not see how I cnn be mistaken."
Accordingly he said to the first
person he met, who, for reverence of
this rabbi's vast learning kept his
eyes fixed on the ground and his head
bowed down, "We will omit the title

n of Paradise.                51
righteous, which may be the source
of some mistake. Pray tell me if you
know one Abraham Ben Gerson?"
"Abraham Ben Gerson I" said the
man in reply, with a voice of great
surprise, mingled with disdain.
"Abraham Ben Gerson! Is it of
him, most renowned rabbi, that you
speak? Do you want any account
of that fellow? Who could possibly
give to him the title righteous? Oh,
holy rabbi, you can have nothing to
do with him! A wretch! He calls
himself a Hebrew, but he is worse
than a Gentile. He never puts his
foot into the synagogue. He eats
- horrible to say- flesh prepared by
the Christians. It would be better if
he were baptized. There would be
one hypocrite less."
"This my companion in paradise!"
said Rabbi Solomon, seized with an
indefinable fear. "Companion in par-
adise! My God! Have Vbeen, with.
out knowing it, a great sinner?
Could it be of a companion in hell
that the celestial vision spoke?"
An icy chill ran through his veins.
He was upon the point of despair,
when a new thought comforted him.
"May not this be a great sinner," he
said to himself, "who is destined to
become great saint? Oh if the Lord
has reserved to me the grace to conduct
this wanderer to salvation 1 What
glory, what triumph!"
Full of this thought and hope, he
went in search of the house of Abra-
ham Ben Gerson. "Can you tell me
where he lives ? "he said to one he
net in the way. The man walked
with him a short distance, and then
pointing with his finger said, "There,
~hat is his house."
The rabbi looked and wondered.
lie beheld before him a vast palace
f splendid magnificence, even exter-
ially. In a spacious court-yard were


52               The C'ompanio
sumptuous equipages, which had
brought affluent and noble guests.
Many servants in rich livery stood in
readiness to welcome visitors and
friends. As he entered the palace, all
the pomp of human grandeur seemed
to be before his eyes.
Wondering and hesitating, he did
not dare to advance. "What display,
what splendor, for a son of exiled
Israel! What part have I here?
How can I b~ welcomed, I a humble
teacher, in the midst of all this superb
magnificence? Better withdraw than
expose myself to the raillery of the
proud."
But, as he turned to depart, some of
the servants who had observed him
came forward, and, with the humble
and respectful manners with which
they served princes, begged him to
present himself to their master, and
to open his thoughts without hesi-
tancy.
Rabbi Solomon, re-assured, said that
wished to speak to Abraham Ben
Lte.. dad upon this he was at once
eonducte~ into a large, rich hall, wher~
he was told he would have to wait
only a moment or two before he would
have the desired interview.
"My companion in paradise! "he
said. "He? Hehashisparadise here
in this world. No mortal can enjoy
two. No: I will no more think of
him as my companion in heaven.
At least may he be worthy so vast
earthly bliss. I will hope. There is
still time. Oh if it might please God
to make me an instrument, though so
unworthy, of the repentance of this
man!"
Soon Abraham Ben Gerson entered.
He was of high and majestic stat-
ure, of a noble and somewhat youth-
ful aspect. He came forward with
outstretched hand to meet his visitor,
and welcomed him with a cordiality so

n of Paradise.
frank and affectionate that the rabbi
was at once charmed.
"I repute it a great honor to have
you for my guest. Your piety, your
learning, your sanctity, are well
known to me, and are a precious gem,
the like of which I have not in all
this pomp that surrounds me. I
should be the most happy of men,
could Iadd this to the gold and jew-
els that here abound. The compas-
sion of God is great, and I will not
despair of this favor."
Rabbi Solomon looked at him with
an air of profound surprise, to which
these last words a4ded an emotion of
tenderness. Uttering a deep sigh,
and with eyes brimming with tears,
which he tried in vain to suppress,
and with a voice full of grief, he at
length said, "Then you do not de-
spair? You have reason. We should
never doubt the divine mercy. It
may yet reach you. But, alas!
pardon my boldness, - the path you
pursue does not conduct to hope, but
to desperation. You desire the gem
of purity and holiness; but your con-
duct, the tenor of your life, your
unpardonable freedoms, your auda-
cious transgressions ~ -
Don Abraham, without the least
sign of auger or disturbance, with a
gentle and friendly tone of voice, in-
terrupted him by saying, "Do you
believe, then, that I am on the road
to perdition?'~
"Alas!" said the rabbi, "my heart
is overwhelmed with grief. You are
indeed on that road; nor can you pos-
sibly be saved without a potent energy
of will, without a sincere and thorough
repentance, without a radical change
of life."
"My good rabbi," said Don Abra-
ham, smiling, "you inspire me with
fear; or rather, let me say it frankly,
you think you will inspire it. And

The Companion of Paradise.           53

yet my conscience is unshaken in ih
trust. But tell me, 11 pray yo~i, whal
is the true road to heaven ~
"There is but one way that leads
to heaven," replied the rabbi. "II
has been clearly traced by all ow
doctors from the beginning, devo.
tion, prayer, fast, sacred studies~
charity.~~
~ interrupted Don Abraham~
with a certain decision of tone
"No; the way is not one, but many.
You, my revered master, mortify
yourself with fasts and studies.
Your lips utter only prayers and
holy words. Your heart has no
palpitation for earthly enjoyments.
This is ~vell. You are a saint. It is
an honest life, even this, and very
profitable to you, though less profit-
able to others. Your path will un-
doubtedly conduct you to heaven.
But let us not deceive ourselves.
The road to that felicity does not
run solely in rigorous rites, in morti-
fications of the flesh, in idle prayers.
God has opened many ways to bring
poor mortals to himself; and perhaps
that which I pursue, though it is not
yours, may run parallel with yours,
and we both meet at the same goal.~~
"What horrors ~" thought Rabbi
Solomon. "There is no hope of sav-
ing this man. And this fellow my
companion in paradise! No. It
must have been some mocking vision
1 had. A malign spirit has deluded
mc."
At that moment &amp;~ servant entered
and said to Don Abraham, "Sir,
there is a poor woman without, who
earnestly begs to speak with you.~~
"Why have you made her wait?"
said Abraham. "Adn~it her in-
stantly."
"Thea he is not proud,~~ thought
the rabbi, glad t~ find one good
quality in the suon,

A woman, poorly dressed, with
eyes fulLof tears, entered precipi-
tately, and casting herself at the feet
of Abraham said in accents of unut-
terable grief, "Oh, my lord, save my
son!"
"Save your son? How? Speak I
If gold will do it, my gold is yours."
"Then he is charitable," thought
the rabbi; "and 'charity saves from
death,' saith the wise. But he pro-
fanes the sacred rites, treads under
foot the prescriptions of the law"-
"No," said the woman. "Gold
cannot save him. Alas, my only
son dies I I cannot survive him.
The only comfort of my life! he dies
he dies!"
"But speak. Explain yourself. Is
he sick? What can I do for him?"
"Ah, he is sick indeed! He loves
to desperation a young woman of
a poor family, and they have
exchanged their vows, and friends
have given their benediction, all
but the father; for he, dazzled by
the prospect of wealth, has promised
her to a rich lord. She is silent, but
death is in her soul. My poor son-
my God! my God! if you were to
see him I In a few days he is so
changed that he seems already a
corp5e.~~
"What is the name of your son?"
"Abraham Ben Manuel."
"What is the name of the dam-
sel 'i'"
The woman hesitated to answer,
and looked down.
"Speak. Tell me freely."
"Rebecca Emmanuel."
Don Abraham instantly turned
pale. He staggered as if unable to
support himself. Falling upon' a
seat that was near, he covered his
eyes with both hands. He remained
for some time in a silence which no
one dared to interrupt.


The Com~panion of Paradise.

A Tartar Fairyi Tale literally Iranslated.

At length he aroused himself, as
if by a strong resolution, and show-
ing his face, now lined with tears, he
said to the woman, " Leave me for
the present. I will not forget your
son." .
Remaining alone with the rabbi,
he said, in a tone of the utmost grief,
" This is indeed a great trial which
God sends me. Do you know who
that Rebecca is ? She was to be my
bride."
"And do you love her?"
"Do I love her ? Who could help
loving her? Poor young man! I
know well how much to pity you.
She is the lily of Jericho, and the
rose of Sharon. She is the flower
and light of my life. Take her from
me, and what is left? Nothing but
darkness, desolation, and bitterness of
heart. Poor young man, how much
I pity you! But we are all unhappy
together. Pardon, my good father,
my raving and delirium." -
"You have need to be alone, and I
will leave you."
"But will you return? Perhaps -
perhaps-I shall have need of your
offices. Will you come at once when
I call?"
The rabbi'promised and departed.

After a few days a select corn-
pany was gathered in one of the halls
of Don Abraham. Every thing
breathed perfumes and flowers and
joy. It was a marriage. Among
the guests was our rabbi. e
Don Abraham came in, as pale as
death, and gave his hand to a young
woman, beautiful as an angel-.
"Behold Rebecca," he said with
a trembling voice to the company.
"Behold the spouse. Signor Rabbi,
will you record the nuptial vosn
Rabbi Solomon complied. He.
asked for the name of the maid.
"Rebecca Emaue,       was the
reply.
"And your name ?" he said to
Don Abraham.
"Ah! " sighed the unhappy man.
"You want the name of the destined
husband. It is Abraham Manuel.
Record it so. I am here only to offer
the nuptial gifts. Write, my good
master, and give me your hand; for
I leave suddenly, and you will not
see me again for some time."
The rabbi, overcome with his feel-
ings, cast himself io the arms os
Don Abraham and wept. "No, noi!
I am unworthy," he said, "to have
such a companion in paradise."

BURNE TT'S KALLISTON:
A Cosmetic for Removing F'reocies, Tan, sunburn, &amp;o-.
MESSS. JSEPHBURNTT &amp;CO.:        MARLBOROUGH, MASS., July I I'
GENTS, -- A single application of the Kalliston has repeatedly removed the
freckles from the face of my little boy, leaving his skin smooth and fair. And in
all cases of sunburn, or irritation of the skin, it has proved itself a perfect remedy.
K  an refer youato several cases of obstinat  cutaneous diesi  whic t
had suffered for many years from eruptions and painIul inflammation of the skin,
leaving it in several places puckered and quite red. Your Kalliston has caused the
skin to become soft and smooth, and the inflammation and redness have nearly
disappeared.-

Yours respectfully,

J. M. BOYD.

I

A TARTAR FAIRY TALE LITERALLY TRANSLATED.
[The following curious piece of folk-lore is undoubtedly Hindu in its origin, but was adopted and
worked up in a new shape by the Tartars of Turkestan. It is one of a series of tales which have
been translated and annotated by a learned German mythologist. It is now translated for " Old
and New," by Prof. Lesley, who has furnished us with some very interesting notes upon this story,
its accompanying literature, and its connection with similar mnytl~s, which we reserve for a future
number.1

THE -DEDICATION.
,Tnou victoriously perfect Nagar-
g~una, to whom was given for illustration
the name of Garbha, - Be, who, having
'nmade the pure vase (of Buddhism) to
Jhine within and without while he lived,
finished the comprehension of' the Mid-
dle Doctrine (Madhjamika) of' the true
sense (parasmartha), the second Teach-
er, before whom I bow myself'. In the
hav recited that wonderful cadaton-
ishing history of this Master NAgar-
nuna and the Prince travelling the
happy and good path, which is told
with this object, that men may attain
supreme perfection by receiving into
their hearts, as they need, its chief' con-
tents as collocated by the wise, through
tradition, hearing and reading of the
same. The occasion for the recital be-
ing as follows-.
THE INTRODUCTION'.
In the Middle Kingdom of India
dwelt seven brothers, enchanters. At
the same time, and a mile off, lived two
brothers, princes. The elder arose and
went to learn sorcery from the enchant.-
er's. But though they had him under
their instru stion for seven years, yet
taught they him not the key to actual
enchantment. On a time the younger
brother arose to carry food to his elder
brother, and scarcely had he, during
thia stolen opportunity, peeped through
,a crack in the door, but at once he
,found the key ; then, regardless of the
food, both brothers returned together
to the royal castle.
'rhen said the younger broth'er;

54A

5

"The magicians will perhaps discover
that we have learned magic; an excellent
horse is in our stall; lead him forth by
the bridle, but turn not toward the seven
sorcerers, but betake thee into another
land, sell it there, and bring the pro-.
ceeds back."
So saying he transformed himself
into that horse. But the elder brother
did not govern his conduct by the
younger brother's words ; for he thought
thus: " Although they taught me
magic seven years, yet have I not
learned it ; my younger brother has
found so excellent a horse, why should
I not ride." With this he mounted.
But scarcely was he in the saddle, when
he found himself (in consequence of the
usual power of magic, because he had
not power to guide the- horse) before
the magiians' htore and although he
Then the thought occurred to him:
"Well then, I will just sell the steed to
these enchanters." He asked the en-
chanters : " My younger brother has
found this excellent horsee; will you
examine him ?" The enchanters knew
that it was a magic beast, and thought:
If' every body learns magic at this rate,
we shall lose all our reputation and can
excite no more astonishment by our art ;
we will take the horse and kill him. To
this end they trafficked, paid the price
asked, took possession, and bound the
horse in a dark stall. But when the
time to kill it came, they led it in by
the bridle, to shed its blood, while some
held it fast by the head and mane,
others by the tail, by the thick of the
fore leg, and by thme hinderpart, to pre-.
vent the possibility of its escape.


A  Tartar Pairii Tale lileragy ~ran8lated.          57

66            A  Tartar .l~zir&amp;i Tale lilerallj translated.

During this treatment thought the
horse: "Ab, my brother could not
manage properly, and I am in the hands
of these magicians; yet 0, if only some
sort of living creature would come
along to give me a chance to make my
transformation l"
Scarcely had the horse so thought,
when he saw a fish swim by in the
water, and changed himself instantly
into it. The seven magicians became
seven sea-mews, and when in their pur-
suit of the fish they were just about to
seize him, he saw a dove fly by in the
air and changed himself into it. The
magicians became seven hawks, anul
pursued the dove over hill and river,
and as they neared it, it flew to a shin-
ing mountain in the land of Bede in
~ south country, into the depths of a
eave, which bore the name of "the
Peace-giving," and glided down into
the lap of the Master N&amp;g~r~una who
resided there.
The seven hawks came also to the
entrance of the cavern and changed
themselves into seven men in cotton
clothes.
Then thought the Master within
himself: "What can be the reason
for seven hawks pursuing this one
dove?" So thinking lie asked the
dove: "Why art thou so terribly
afraid?"
'I~hen told the dove all the above
tale, and further said: "Now stand
seven men in cotton clothes before thy
cave's mouth. These will present them-
selves before the Master and ask for the
rosary in his band. At that moment I
will change myself into the top bead
of the rosary; when the Master then
reaches out the rosary, let him take
the top bead in his mouth and scatter
the rosary."
So spake the dove. Accordingly ap-
peered just then the seven men in cot-
ton clothes and seized the rosary. The
Master took the topmost bead in his
wouth, and scarcely were the beads

scattered when they became in arm
instant worms, and the seven mcii
changed into seven liens and picked up
and swallowed the worms. Then tIm:
Master let the top bead fall from liii
mouth, and there arose a mami tlmerefromim
holding a stick in his hand. Scarcely
had the man killed die liens than seven
human corpses lay upon the tloor. Themi
was the heart of the Master sore
troubled, and he said: "Whilst I pro-
tected thy single life have I thereby
caused the lives of these seven to be
destroyed. That is in truth a very bad
affair."
To these words the man replied: "I
am the son of a king (Chan). If the
Master to save my single life alone has
helped to kill these others, so will I, to
atone for the sin and show my gratitude
to the Master, joyfully undertake and
pumictually execute whatever comumis-
sion thou shalt give me."
Then said the Master: "Now if
that be so, Siddhi-ktlr (Death endoweul
with supernatural power) is in the hiol-
low tree on the place of corpses Qita-
vans); from the waist .upwards he is
of gold, downward of smaragd, on the
head of mother-of-pearl, and provided
with a head band ; - so is he made.
Thou canst bring him for penance. If
thou art able to accomplish it, I could
indeed through him obtain gold; men
could attain from 'Gambu-dvlpa a thou-
sand-year term of life and the highest
wonderful perfection."
Of this requisition then the prince
gave such a promise, and inquired
further: "Be pleased t~ give me the
road which I must travel, the way and
manner I must behave, and to compre-
hend all food and what else is needful
I will follow thy instruction."
Then spake the Master: "Now
then, when thou hast gone a mile from
this, there is, at a mountain stream in
an uncommonly dark, woody, fearful
ravine, a crowd of very great dead
people. So soon as thou hast reached

them, they will arise and approach thee.
Call to them: 'All ye great dead,
hala, bela sv~hft I' and scatter among
them these barleycorns consecrated
with magical words. Further on, thou
shalt find a multitude of little dead men.
When thou hast cried to them, '0
all ye little dead, hulu, hulu sv&amp;h&amp; I'
make them also a scatter-offering
Again beyond these are a troop of dead
in the form of children. Make to
these an offering, with the address: 'ye
dead in child-forms, nra phad I' Out of
their midst Siddhi-K~r will issue, will
clamber up a mango-tree and will seat
himself on the top of it. If thou wilt
with this axe, which is named White
Moon, pretend angrily to attack the foot
of the tree, lie will descend. Then stick
him into this many-colored sack, in which
there is room for a hundred, tie it with
this many colored-cord of a thousand
threads, eat from this butter-cake, which
will not be exhausted by consumption,
take the Death upon thy back, travel
away with him, without letting a single
word escape thee, and return hither.
Thy name is Prince. Since thou hast
succeeded in reaching the Peace-secur-
ing rock-grotto thou shalt be called the
King that travels the fortunate good
path."
When he had bestowed on him this
name, he showed him the way and let
him go upon his wanderings. When the
Price had overcome all its horrors and
the Siddhi-Ktir came in sight, he set
himself to its pursuit, but it had
clambered up the mango-tree. ~om-
ing up to the foot of the tree he
shouted: "My master is Nag&amp;r~una
Garbha; my axe is called White Moon;
my provender is inexhaustible butter-
cake; my servant a fancy-colored sack
with a hundred places in it; my rope
is a cord of a hundred colored twist;
I myself am the King on the fortunate
good path. Death! descend, or I will
hew down thy tree."
To these words the Siddhi-Kiir re-

plied: "Hew the tree not down; I
will descend ;" and the King put him
into his sack, fastened it with the cord,
ate of his butter-cake, put him on his
back, and journeyed so with him many
days.
At last Siddhi-Kdr spake: "As the
day is long it will be tedious to us;
either tell me a story, or I will narrate
one." But the Prince journeyed in
silence on. Then Siddhi-Kdr began
anew: "If thou wilt narrate, shake
thy head; if on the contrary thou wilt
say to me, narrate thou I give me to
understand that also with a nod of the
bacl~ of your head." Without replying
a word, the King gave the sign with
his head, that meant that he was free to
do what he pleased. So Siddhi-Kdr
began the following story: -
THE STORY.
In very early times, in a great
kingdom lived a rich man's son, a physi-
cian's son, an artist's son, a mathema-
tician's son, a carpenter's son, and a
blacksmith's son, and all these six leib
their parents for a distant land, with
provisions for the journey. When they
reached a place where the mouths o~
several rivers came together, they
planted there each one his life-tree; and
since each was to seek his fortune by
ascending a different branch of the
river, they appointed this spot as a rezi-
dezvous where they should again find
one another. Should any one of us,
said they, fail to return, and his life-tree
be withered, or anything of that sort
happen, the rest of us will seek for,
him in the direction which he took.
Now after the rich man's son had
travelled up a river, he reached at its
fountain head, where a wood and mead-
ow joined, a little hut, and enterca by
the door. Here lived an aged man with
his grey-headed wife, who asked him: -
"Young man, whence comes thou?
and whither wilt thou go?"


58           A   Tartar Thiry Tale literally lran8lated.

A Tartar Faiq,' Thie lz~teraIe~y tran8lated.

The young man answered: "I have
come from afar, to seek my fortune."
The two old folks said: "Now under
these circumstances thy coming is good;
we have a charming, wonderfully beauti-
ful daughter, of noble form and lovely
nature ; - take her and be our son."
With these words the daughter ap-
peared, and scarcely had theyoung man
seen her when he thought within him-
self; "Since I have left father and
mother, my coming hither has happened
well; this is far more wonderful and
charming than the daughters of the
heaven-gods. I will take her and settle
here." But the maiden said, "0 youth,
it is very good?'
And after that they had asked and
narrated many things to and fro, they
entered the home and lived in love and
happiness.
Over that country ruled a mighty
king. One day in the early spring, his
courtiers betook themselves to the
water-side to ei~joy their sport, anil found
a ring floating in the ~vater, which be-
longed to the wife of the rich young
man who dwelt at the head of the riv-
er, and set with various jewels. This
wonderful object they captured and
took to the king, who spake to his ser-
vants in astonishment: "At the head
of this river surely lives a woman, who
wore this ring; bring her hither to
me."
With this commission he sent his
servants off. They went, and when they
had seen the woman, they said to them-
selves in wonder: "This woman is really
so beautiful that one can never look at
her enough;" but to her they said, "The
king has called thee to go to him," and
they took her with the rich young man,
and brought her to the king, who when
he saw her said: "This is truly a
laughter of the gods; my other wives
are hounds and swine compared with
her." Thus he spake, and gave this
woman by far the preference. But she
thought in her heart only and alone of

the rich young man. lint she was in
the power of the king. When the king
rcmark~d it, he said to his servants:
'Get this rich young man out of the
way.' So the servants did as they
were bid; invited the yonng man to a
game, selected a place on the bank of
the river, buried him there, and cov-
ered him with a mighty rock ; - and
so they killed him.
Now, when at the appointed time his
companions found themselves all togeth-
er again, returned from various direc-
tions to the spot where the life-trees
stood a~ their rendezvous1 and the rich
young man had not appeare(l, they saw
at once that his life-tree had withered.
Then they could not rest in their hearts,
and sought for him along the river, up
which he had travelled, but they found
him uot~ Now when the matliemati-
chin's son had made his calculation ho
deduced therefrom that the rich man's
son lay dead at such atar such a 'ha-
tance, covered with a ereat rook. Al..
though after a search they found this
rock, their strength did not avail to lift
it off. Since they knew no other
means,'the blacksmith's son took a ham-
mer and broke the rock to pieces; and
when they had dug, the dead man caine
to ligltt. The doctor's son mixed a
healing drink good against death, and
when he had poured it into his mouth
he was whole again, without any hurt
whatever.
With conversation and questioning
from all sides: "Under what circum-
stances didat thou die?" and when lie
had told them all his history, his com-
panions said: "If it is such a charm-
ing woman she must indeed be wonder-
ful. Yet now by what means shall we
snatch her from the king? "-so spake
they with one another. Then the car-
penter's son prepared a Garuda out of
wood. If one mounting into it knock-
ed upwards then it nscended~ if ono
knocked downwards, then it descend-
ed; if one knocked sideways then it

turned sideways, - such a magic bird
lie made. But the painter's son streaked
it with all kinds of colors, aiid gave it
thereby a very fair appearance. The
rich young man entered it then, and ris-
ing into the air flew away. Floating
above the royal residence he stoppeti,
circling it round. When the king and
his followers saw it, they spake aston-
ished to each other: "Such a bird we
have hitherto never seen, nor even heard
of." And telling the news to the prin-
cess the king said to her, "Ascend to
the roof of the palace and reach the
bird all sorts of food."
The wife ascended the palace with
provisions, and while sIte tarried there,
the bird came down to her. They met
at the door of the wooden Garuda.
The woman, rejoicing in her heart, said,
"To meet thee never once came into
my imagination, and yet this has hap-
peiied. How hast thou accomplished
this bird iii such deceptive guise ?"
After the young man had circum-
stantially related to her the adventure,
he spake thus: "Now thou livest in-
deed as the king's wife; but if we
wish to uiiite ourselves both in love as
man and wife, enter this wooden Gar-
uda, and we will fly through the air,
and no especial harm shall threaten us."
The woman answered: "I also re-
joice to be united again with thee; of
all the husbands I have ever had thou
hast for me the highest value."
With these words she entered the
wooden Garuda and flew away through
the air. When the king and his fol-
lowers became aware of this, he said:
"Alas, in return for sending my wife
to feed this charming bird, he has now
carried her away through the air;" and
casting himself on the ground, and
rolling about, he gave himself up to his
chagrin.
Now struck the rich young man the
spring of the wooden Garuda in the
direction downwards, and alighted near
bis companions. At first he stepped

out alone. His companions said! "Is
thine affair cared for?"
"My affair is excellently well eared
for," he replied, and he let his wife
then out. At sight of her, his compan-
ions kindled with ardent desires in
their hearts for her (for she was charm-
ingly beautiful). Then said the rich
young man: "Ye my companions have
assisted me, a dead man, called me hack
to life, and invented a method for regain-
ing this my wife; now I will pay you
my thanks; rob me not of her."
In spite of this the mathematician's
son arose and said: "Since no man knew
whether or not thou wert in life, it was
only after hearing my calculation, re-
lying on it that they got the wife ; -
give her then to me."
But the blacksmith's son opposed
him saying: "If thot~ didst accomplish
this by thy calculation, who could have
got him from under. Thou didst get
thy wife again because I broke the
rock to pieces and got thee out ; - the
womaii is mine.
Against him the doctor's son main-
tamed: "Although thou didst deliver
the dead man by breakiiig the rock in
pieces, how could the corpse g~ fetch
the woman? Therefore because I
brought the dead to life again by mcdi-
chic, thou hast got her from the ground.
I take the woman."
The carpenter's son said: "Verily
thou didst call to life; but without the
wooden Garuda, how could ye have
reached the woman? Ye were in no
condition to overcome the king. Since
no man is allowed to penetrate the pal-
ace, to get the woman was an impos-
sibility. By my wooden Garuda was
she won. The woman is decidedly
mine.
The painter's son opposed this: "The
queen would never have gone up to
feed thy dried-wood manufactured Oar-
uda. The woman has been recovered
only because a beautiful aspect was
given itby the handling of my various


60                     T4e Queen
colors. To keep the woman is my
due."
Thus they strove together, and could
come to no agreement.
"Now then," said they, "if it he so,
we will all take her;" and with shouts
of" Slash! Slash I " they each cut away
a piece of her with his knife; and so
they killed the woman.
At these words the King exclaimed:

and Eli~~or~
"Ah, the poor thing! The pitiable
lady!"
Then autwered the Siddhi-Kfir:
"Playing away his luck the king has
let his words escape," and with the
shout of "It is not good to remain in
the world I" he freed himself, and flew
hastily away.
This is the first chapter from the
story-telling of the Siddhi-K~r: "How
iL went with the rich man's son."

SPOONS IN A WHERRY.
BY MARK SIBLEY SEvERANcE.

I.
WATER, and a wherry. In the
wherry a woman. In fact, in the
wherry a young woman. Or, as Nor-
ris would say, "A gentlewoman, and,
to add to thy wonder, a young gentle-
woman."
But who?
Shall I tell you? Ani how? Shall
I trace her ancestry from farthest
Norse progenitor, like genealogical
Thackeray, down through semi-rural
Englishman, slashing Ronadhead, and
emigrating Pilgrim, to this fairest
daughter of the line, drifting yonder
in her wherry, while the ~vcst wind
makes music under its bows with
gentle ripples?
Or shall Iwith pre-Raphaclite Judd,
throw a phantasmagoric halo about
her, and usher in Victoria the queen,
and Maloney the scrub, her of the
almond eyes and her of the Cannibal
Islands, each in her patois claiming
the maiden, and each exhibiting the
touch of nature that "makes the
whole world kin"?
Neither; for has she not chosen
to seat herself in a wherry? And
does not that restrict her to easily-
recognized nationality? She is
neither squat Esquimnaux maid,
training for the kyak-somersault, the
aztimrna cun~ laude of hyperborean

sports, nor Indian beauty, gliding,
noiseless as the voice of dreams, in
her birch though Colambian waters;
but thee most charming of Caucasians,
lithe as the one, tireless as either,
resting at present from a rapid spin
up the winding river, her lips parted,
and her whole form exhilarated by
her race with an imaginary compet-
itor.
What matter, then, who was her
grandmother to the fiftieth: remove,
when we have the substantial beauty
of the radiant granddaughter?
No~v she takes her sculls again,
and with a fe~v po~verful strokes, in
strict 'Varsity form, drives her wherry
through a narrow entrance into a
small lagoon, ~vhite with water-lilies,
startling a log-full of demure turtles
from their senatorial slumbers; they
give an awakening stare at the bold
intruder, and roll off to moister quar-
ters below, to continue their session
on the water-rates.
Who, then, is the bold intruder?
Miss Midsummer, a half-year resi-
dent at Riverbank, wt. 19+, whole-
souled, whole-hearted, bro~vn-eyed,
low-voiced; ~vith a form like Hebe's;
no, better then: that, such as Hebe
might have, after a m~nthi's gentle
wherry-training for some Olympiui~
regatta. A child of natures and yet

Sp)oon8 in7

not a child of nature; for that sug-
gests mawkishness and verdancy;
still, although town-bred herself, yet
fi~rthest removed from what the last-
century song calls
The city lass
With wainscot face."
Dame Nature, kindliest of colonists,
had indeed wainscoted her face, but
with far different cosmetics from those
on the toilet-table of the "city lass."
"health," Hebe's sister, had stood
godmother over her at birth, and
~vatched her ever since. She led her
out into the fields, and Nature kissed
approval on her cheek. She pointed
to the wildest horses and the most
dangerous boats, and told her to ride
and to row. And she galloped and
rowed and swam, and was an Arab
in endurance. The same sun that
bronzed the Arab in the desert put
the richest of browns on her check,
but still the ruddy Caucasian Health
glowed through it all, and said with
a smile, "She is my daughter." But
why catalogue her virtues? Is not
all said, or implied, ~vhea ~ve find her
in a wherry? Did ever young wo-
man enter one who had not pluck
and self-reliance aud independence?
To these add beautiful muscles and
nerves of steel, a wit keen though
seldom displayed, and a manner
marked with just enough of hauteur
to repel familiarity, and withal a
Spartan hatred of flirtation, and you
have Miss Midsummer in a nutshell,
- or a wherry. For see, she is just
selling out from the lagoon with
easy stroke; she has wreathed the
~vash-hoards of the wherry with trail-
ing feathery clematis, and oh! sight
for a Brabmin, a single water-lily,
~vhite as her own bosom, hangs over
the middle of her forehead, like the
Lotus on the brow of a Hindoo god-
des~.

a  Wherry.                    61
II.
PRESENTLY as she rounds jitto the
open river, a doable scull, and in it a
couple of sophomores from the neigh.
boring university, who are passing
the summer in Riverhank.
What a sophomore does not know
about rowing is hardly worth know-
ing. He takes to it as naturally as
a freshman to the rank-list, a junior
to his ease, and a senior to his rOle
of "heavy dignity." To do our
friends justice, these two young oars-
men, as they rose and fell in regular
rhythm, driving their boat on with
an even course which was the perfec..
tion of motion, seemed far from tyros
at the oar, and brought up, as I
watched them from the bank, memo-
ries, both happy and sad, of early
Winnipiseogee, with its first inter-
collegiate race and its brave crew, of
whom hardly a member remains
above the sod.
They are abreast of the lagoon, as
the Hindoo goddess comes forth, like
the tutelary deity of the stream,
from the inner shrine.
"By jove! what a stunner! ~
comes from the double-scull; and the
training injunction, "Eyes in the
boat," receives a liberal construction,
by being referred to another boat
than thEir own. They have rowed
up and down the navigable length of
the river for a week (ever since tak-
ing quarters at the farm-house yon-
der); they have pulled into all the
seductive nooks, explored all the in-
flowing streams to the uttermost,
plunged into all the cool bathing-
pools, and met never a soul but
parties of pudgy rustics pulling a
barbarous stroke which outraged
their msthetie canons, or indulging in
demonstrative and wholesale "spark-
ing" by moonlight which shocked
them still more; these, and the inev-


62                   Spoons in
itable youth bobbing for eels, moored
in the same spot daily, as though he
had sent down roots and become fast
like a lily-pad, were the only signs
of nautical humanity that they had
discovered; and just as they are be-
ginning to vote Riverbank a "bore,"
out glides this fair and mysterious
naiad, purity crowning her brow, and
grace in every movement of her
body.
This swarm of reflections has
rushed through their minds at once,
elbowving and waking up other little
associated ideas, their eyes all the
time telegraphing up new facts, until
their brains become bee-hives of buzz-
ing wonder, admiration, expectation,
mystery, doubt, -- when -~ "Good
heavens, Bob; I've caught a crab!"
Bob did not need to be told of the
fact, my dear young friend: are not
a hundred and fifty pounds of avoir-
dupois falling -on the frail bottom of
a wherry only equally heavy, suf-
-ficient, without this ex post facto an-
nouncement ?
" Up, man, and right the boat be-
fore she sees us."
And indeed they do so, and are set-
tling into their steady swing again,
when another " Good heavens! hit
her up !" -an academic nautical
phrase, gentle reader, of exhortation
to the crew, is muttered under
breath; and they bend their straight
backs to their work, as they see-
can it be possible? ?-the clematis-
wreathed wherry creeping up closer
and closer fo them, evidently trying
to overhaul them. The Cosarean
spirit of the sophomores prevails over
the ordinary gallantry of the acade-
micians, and they smother their curi-
osity in their desire to be "head of
ghe river." A year later, they will
tscorn with indignation the unchival-
ric imputation of having raced with

a Wherry.
a woman; and wve shall find them,
under similar circumstances, allowing
themselves to be beaten with naive
equanimity, and afterwards bound
wherry to wherry, conqueror and
conquered, mayhap, with the self-
same wreaths of clematis, oblivious
of the world.
So they give themselves to their
stroke, reaching well beyond the toes,
and lifting the bow almost clear of
the water; while their astonishment
changes to dismay, to see clearer and
clearer the delicate spray of the
clematis, and nearer and nearer the
firm profile, lily-crowned, as she
turns now and then to note the
course.
What a disgrace the old university
might have incurred that day, if /
their boat-house, happy sight!i had '
not come to their relief above the '
next bend, 'twvere fearful to think on !
They barely escaped a " bump " from
the on-coming wherry, as they
turned in to their house, looking
back with wide-eyed wonder and in-
finit'e relief at the marvellous stroke -
of their weird antagonist, as she
sped up the river. Bob vowed that
he detected something very like a *
smile on her face, and worse than
that, a satirical smile, as she bent
one look on them in passing; but
she was gone so suddenly, and they
felt so little like smiling themselves,
that they did not stop to argue the
point, but stepped out upon their
landing with slightly spavined knees
and whitish lips. It was only after
lifting their boat upon its stays with
quivering bicipites, that they found
voice to utter the usual expletives,
and discuss this unexpected break in -
the monotony of Riverbank life. ,
This discussion outlasted the process
of dressing and the after-cigar, and
broke out afresh in their walk across

I

fields to their "den." But after
every theory had been discussed, and
every classical parallel suggested,
they were forced to be content with
their original verdict, that whether
woman or goddess, ponderable flesh
and blood or phantom Lady of the
Mist, she was certainly a"sunr"
as she had proved herself to them in
more than hyperbole.
III'
.OF THE sOPHIOMOREs.
Bon had been an exemplary fresh-
man: he had been put to bed with-
out a murmur or a pound of resist-
ance by Ku-klux sophomores, had
never missed a morning prayer, and
had scored high up the eighty-per-
cents in the rank-list. He had
.caught the boating fever in the first
term of the sophomore year, and
had been favorably reported by Sharp-
eye, the "' bowv" bf the 'Varsity,
for a place in the six of the next
summer. But not even possible bays
of glory at Quinsigamond, nor shad-
owvy sunmmu cums, could keep him at
his winter work, either in study or at
the rowing-weights. He fell off in
muscle and in rank, but went steadily
up in the scale of dancing men. The
mighty trophies of his saltatory pow-
wvows were hung about his room, as
priceless spolia opima; a cherry rib-
bon about the neck of his Venus de
Mile, party-colored rosettes on his
broken cricket-bat Ihung up on the
wall to the god of sports, a circle of,
flashing stars against his black man-
tle, with a mass of tiny bells on his
stag-horns over the door, that clinked
a silvery welcome to every in-comner.
"Germans," and what the sanguinary
Irreverent dub "tea-fights," were his
ruin; and at the end of first term,
wye find him rusticated for six months
to Riverbank, where he is now busy

Spoons in a Wherry.                63

"cramming " for the fall examina-
tions, not daring to trust himself in
July. His chum Alfred, a slight,
wiry youth of twenty, ranking ten
in his class, had generously offered
himself as "coach " during the sum-
mer recess ; and was most thankfully
accepted, of course.
On yonder hill-side, a furlong from
the river, they had a " den " in a
cosey red farm-house, where they
battened on such toothsome viands
as Puckle's Conic Sections, grew
plethoric on "Birds and Frogs," and
such-like ancient game, and drank in
copious Chem. Phys. for a post-pran-
dial cordial.
To this "den " they returned after
their river adventure. But how can
be told the changed spirit that came
over their rooms and themselves I
How Puckle was thrown out at open
window, and Aristophanes became,
like ancient Commodus,' a " foot-ball
of fortune !" How the faithful coach,
still attempting his tasks, drew from
his absent-witted pupil the astound-
ing announcement that the fourth
foot of an Aristophanean verse was
a truncated prism, and that the prim-
itive form of the Athenian galley
was the trochaic tetrameter catalec-
tic ! Until patience was worn thread-
bare, and "coach" and pupil threw
aside their books with a decisive,
"N{o use!1 Digging's out of the
question, till we find out who she is."
A difficult matter ? By no means.
Two gentlemanly young fellows, and
not half a mile off a wide porched
country-house, with hospitable Mr.
and Mrs. Midsummer, and nautical
Miss Midsummer. What easier ?
What more natural ? A very uniin-
tended stroll country-houseward, a
very casual rencontre in the fields
with Mr. Midsummer pire, a few
civil interchanges, - "Harvard Col-


64                   Spoons rn
lege? Oh! -my wife and daughter,
gentlemen,~~ - and the Gordian knot
is cut. You think, perhaps, that
another knot is to be tied before we
leave them? We shall see.
Iv.
Manly youth and maidenly beauty
and a summer life together, - what
are the natural results? Look across
your tea-cups, Mrs. Cozee, at the sub-
stantial trophy of your last summer
at Conway, crunching buttered toast
behind "The Evening Transcript," -
the aggravating fellow! Or open
your green box, Miss Megrim, and
take out a dead wild-flower, "covered
with dust like the quince," a half of
a neck-tie, and the handle of a rid-
ing-whip, mayhap, which have lain
there these fifteen years.
But no; there was no such serious
work at Riverbank yet. The rosy
little god ha~ not yet popped in upon
the scene. At first it was a tea, at
which the wherry adventure was ap-
plauded by papa, reprobated by ma-
dame, and laughed over by the young
people. Then it was a call or two,
with the chronic college-songs from
the callers, and the last "Strauss"
from the young entertainer. Then
came walks and drives and rides and
rows, until the whole country round-
about was threaded with a net-work
of romantic memories. Of course,
they galloped through "Lover's
Lane," - what suburb in Christen-
dom Jim not its "Lover's Lane ~
* Of course, they drifted many a
dreamy afternoon on the river, in
sweetest far niente, - no racing now.
"Let's drift ~ exclaimed
Alfred one evening, as the moon
came up over I'iny Point, and they
floated on a stream of liquid silver,
Miss Midsummer sitting with chin
on hand, gazing eastward. Of

a Wherry.
course, they read "The Lotus-Eators"
at the waterfall, with hippy allusions
to
"Slow-dropping veils of thinnest lawn,"
and unspoken convictions in the
minds of the young men that the
Lotus-eaters were about right, after
all, if their island bore any resem-
blance to Riverbank.
Gradually the little god began to
pop his head out from behind the
scenes: at first only to smile a
wicked little smile at the tableaux
and the thickening plot; then to
let fly an arrow or two; until at last
he was rushing about in his "veiling
~ on the very stage, dealing
wounds to right and left, marring the
entr'-acte, turning romance into non-
sense by a well-directed shaft, and
setting the triumvirate by the ears
most wofully.
The athletic Bob was the first to be
hit (boating-men ar.e always the first
married of a class); but Alfred was of
too sympathetic a nature to listen
long unmoved to his chum's ardent
admirittion, even if he were the
Stoic to resist the first cause herself.
Bob's exclamation-points, and a stray
dart or two at his own heart, brought
him down too; so that soon, by a
sort of assimilation, they arrived at
a condition of utter slavery to Miss
Midsummer, - moody without her,
lackadaisical in her presence, abjectly
sub mellifluo imperio, as Fortescue
has it, -which was the one thing
above all others to disgust and enrage
healthy Miss Midsummer.
It is a psychological fact, that,
given two impressible and persistent
youths and a single inamorata, we
are sure to have, in due time, either
three firm friends, or two remarkably
brilliant "spoons" and a much dis-
gusted, if sensible, young woman.
Indeed, matters were rapidly tending,

Spoon i~l a Wherry.             65

if not already come, to this latter
issue. The nearer they approached
it, the oftener the collegians noticed
a strange smile on Miss Midsummer's
face, which they could neither inter-
pret nor forget; as when the three
sitting on a breezy knoll, under a
canopy of oak-trees, Miss Midsummer
weaving a chaplet of leaves on Bob's
hat, and the young men watching
her, with fingers in the books that
they had lirought to read, Bob felt
a murtherous little dart planted
plump in his heart, causing him to
utter a sudden "Oh ~
"What's the matter, Mr. Ray-
~
"Oh, I was thinking, how beau-
tiful I"
"It isn't finished yet; I want you
to find me a spike of cardinal flower
for a pompon in front."
"I wasn't thinking of the hat," he
returned with a sigh.
Miss Midsummer looked at him
a moment in a silent, abstracted
way peculiar to her, handed him his
hat, and led the way without a word
to the wherries, tied at the bank be-
neath them.
Many repetitions of such scenes, of
which Miss Midsummer had an
almost morbid loathing, if any thing
about her could be said to be morbid,
drove her to desperation, and she was
at her wits' end to devise some escape
from such nauseating attentions; and
when at last Alfred the erudite,
drawing on his extensive reading
at the University, quoted something
from the Gulistan, she didn't kno~v
nor care to know what that was,
about "the incurvated back of the
sky" becoming "straight (with joy)
at thy birth," - which he meant for
a compliment I - her patience re-
ceived its last straw, and she vowed
that she would not let the sun go

down on her perplexity, but would
find deliverance, even if at the price
of politeness.
Which vow led to the more sub.
stantial oath of the next chapter.
Stopping in the middle of a song
that evening, she astonished a young
man leaning on either end of the
piano, like misplaced caryatides, by
the following speech, as oratorical as
it was unexpected from her: -
"Come, my gallant cavaliers; these
attentions are becoming smothering
in the extreme. I have been pelted
with compliments and bon-mots as
you pelt aprima donna with bouquets
in winter, you toilsome, over-worked
students, for aye 'in shady cloister
mewed I' I'm sure, I ought to feel
very much flattered; but for variety,
I propose a wherry-race, for the
championship of the river; and I
promise you, ~pon honor, as you say,
that the winner shall be sole dictator
over my valuable affection&amp;~for a
twelve-month, - I'd say longer, but I
think that's about as long as any one
would be able to endure it. What do
you say? I think it's about time for
a little healthy excitement; and in-
stead of entering the lists and tilting
at each other, a~ you might have
been ready to do for me half a dozen
centuries ago, we shall have a less
bloody but equally exciting joust
with the oars; and I'm sure I shall
be delighted, if I shall be the means
of putting you into good 'form' for
next year's work; for I feel that you
must be dreadfully demoralized, if I
may judge from my own feelings, by
the lazy life that we've been leading
for the last month."
This was delivered with a well-
assumed gravity, which disarmed the
suspicions raised by the novelty of


I

Spoons in a Wherry.

the proposal in the minds of the youig
men ; and, to say truth, they were
not themselves so soft-brained as not
to be thankful for a breeze from some
other quarter than the Lotus Isles,-
whence languid airs had been blowing
for many a day. ~
" Are you joking ?" .
"By no means," she said; and see-
ing the young men eying each other's
figures, as though to weigh the
chances of a race, she feared for her
plan, and raised her right hand as if
preparing for a judicial oath. Alfred,
the future lawgiver, interpreting this
correctly, ordered Bob to follow suit,
and, raising his own hand, with mock
gravity propounded the following
Burmese '
OATH.
This solemn uplifting of hands
witnesseth, that, owing to sundry and
divers causes not herein specified, a
race for the championship is to be
rowed on the Meander River, on" -
"What day shall it be?"
"Let's see. What do you say to
a ,veek from Saturday ?"
"Saturday it is."
-"on Saturday, the - 25th inst.;
starting opposite the stone boat-house,
thence down stream, rounding the
island known as Wolf Island " -
" How's that ?"
" Capital ! couldn't be better."
- "and returning to the starting-
point. The winning of said race to
reside with the person rowing over the
whole course, as herein described, and
arriving first at the starting-point,
and to entitle said winner to 'the
head of the river,' so nautically called,
and to the sole right, title, and inter-
est for a twelvemonth in the affec-
tions of one Midsummer, summer
resident at Riverbank, spinster, beauti-
ful as"-
"You wretch ! proceed!"

- "and all persons laying, or pra
suming to lay, claim to said affections,
saving only the winner as above de-
scribed, shall immediately thereafter
'vamose the ranche ' and leave said
winner an open field, or river, in the
full and undisturbed enjoyment of
said affections'aforesaid. Wind and .
weather permitting. So help me,5
gracious I" ,
"Well done, my learned Grotius!
And now, remember your oath and
the inestimable prize."
Saying which, she excused herself
on the plea of going to her mother,
who was confined to her room, but in
reality to rush to the billiard-room,
prance wildly about it, seize an In-
dian club and whirl it desperately
about her head, make astonishing
lunges with cues at an imaginary foe,
and indulge in other excited actions,
all the while breaking into extrava-
gant laughter as though something
had been engineered with peculiar
adroitness.
The young men left, considerably
mystified, and not exactly sure wheth-
er they were being quizzed or not-.
But they were oath-bound now, and
really what harm could there be in a
race, whether it decided any thing or
not ? After being invited so charm-
ingly, in so mysterious a manner too,
how could they retreat ?
So they ordered up their single
sculls from Cambridge, and went into
a moderately severe course of train-
ing. They alarmed their, landlady
by their increase of appetite, and all
Riverbank, gazing from the shore, by
their diminution of rowing-shirt; in-
deed, at the University, success at the
oar seems to be in inverse ratio to size
of boating-shirt.
They saw less of Miss Midsummer.
They were more frequently met with
a "Not at home " when they called,

67

Spoons in a Wherry.

and puzzled by that peculiar smile,
now more sphinx-like than ever,
when they found her in. She was
continually quizzing them about their
oath, and begging them to be partic-
ularly careful to remember its phra-
seology. " Oh, yes," they said ;
" we remember it!" and they tried
to look very wise, but felt very un-
comfortable. They rarely met her
in her wherry now, but came across
her path once, as she was hurrying
home through the fields, looking very
much excited and trying to avoid
them; but when they came up with
her, she explained that she had been
down to arrange something in her
boat-house, and had heated herself
hurrying home to dinner.
They were becoming brown and
burned, as the day of the race came
on; and they noticed that she, too,
was very much bronzed, more than
. usual; but she said that she was de-
voting herself* to her flower- gzen;
"which has become fearfulI yover-
grown with weeds since you've been
here,"~ she added, with a pointed ear-
nestness, at the recollection of which
she laughed outright, after they had
left, - good deal for her to say,
and more than enough to launch them
upon a fresh rhapsody on their way
home.
VI.
SThe day of the race came. Every
suspicion that had hatched in the
brains of the young men had received
its quietus from Miss Midsummer
as soon as brought before her; but
still they ate their oatmeal on Satur-
day morning with the firm conviction
that the day's sport was to have an
episode ; what, or to whose discomfit-
,ure, neither could imagine.
Miss Midsummer had suggested to
them the propriety of allowing a pri-
vate announcement of the race in

Riverbank, and of permitting her
father to put up a silver cup as a
prize, which she said he had been anx
ious to do so soon as he heard that
they were to row. They sniffed dan-
ger in this proposal at once, and
thought they saw through her plot.
It was all very well, they thought, to
have a quiet race by themselves, and
even an episode or two, if Miss Mid-
-summer desired, provided they were
the only spectators: but this crowd
and this cup, - what sudden traps
might not be sprung under cover of
them! The river swarmed, to their
imaginations, with a riotous rabble,
each individual rioter fired with
intensest "town-gnd-gown" frenzy,,
and each brandishing a prohibitory
bludgeon atthem defenceless. The air
glittered with a shadowy legion of
silver cups, fair without, but treach-
erous, subtly armed with Medicean
poison within, mayhap. But again
their suspicions were allayed, and
Riverbank and cup were on hand,
open-mouthed for the excitement of
the day.
The sun came up with a grin on
his round face, as though he knew
what fun was afloat, or to float. He
winked at some clouds down in the
east, and said to them, "Come up
with me, and see the sport ;" but the
delicate creatures were frightened at
his familiarity, and vanished from
sight at his very look. So he climbed
up alone and secured a high place,
with a clear view of the entire course.
He saw all Riverbank embark for the
race and wet feet; every boat that
would float pressed into service, from
puits long ago discarded as hope-
lessly waterlogged, to the gorgeous
barge " Cleopatra," filled with city-
folk from the hotel. Rustic swains,
effulgent with red flannel, pt-opelled
sturdily hither and thither their


08                     Spoons in
blushing sweethearts, while the
double-scull of our friends was
manned by a couple of classmates,
lured hither by rumors of the race,
and at present monopolizing the coy
glances which should have been the
rustic swains'. Juvenile Riverbank
"shinned " the tallest trees on shore,
squeezed itself into the best places in
the boats, and fell overboard at con-
venient points, but was fished up,
moist, but alive,- too much alive,.
The sun looked down and saw this
motley crowd separate into two irreg-
ular lines on the sides of the river,
and two narrow wherries, "like water-
snakes," glide up and lie side by side
in front of the stone boat-house. Hie
saw a portly gentleman in a punt
(Miss Midsummer's uncle) take a
huge watch from his fob and glance
at it, which was too good a chance
to lose; so he popped a reflected sun-
beam straight into the old fellow's
eye. The judge rubbed his eye,
and from behind his red bandana,
while doing so, announced, " Two
minutes to three, young gentlemen; ~
which the sun overheard, and re-
turned, "Correct, old party, to a sec-
ond !" Then the judicial voice in
apoplectic tones inquired, " Are you
ready ?" and after five seconds
shouted ineffectually, in broken treble,
"Go" I,
Off they -went, the two wherries,
amid shouts of "Ki-i!1" from the
small boys, and cheers from the rest.
" La ! how strong they must be !
See how they've bent them oars!"
exclaimed a country girl, standing in
a boat, and collapses into her lover's
lap, as an excited youth collides vio-
lently with them amidships. And if
any one had been watching the sun,
he would have seen him laughing
until tears rolled down his cheeks;
causing, by the way, quite a summer

a Wherry.
shower down in the tropics, where
they fell; but at what? Surely not
at this country girl's falling into her ,
lover's lap ; for that can hardly be a
novel sight to him, although he does
keep such early hours. ,
But look! Here is what has kept
him dancing in the sky all day!I
Here is the sport to which he invited
the cloudlings ! Here comes the epi.-
sode I For before the wherries have
taken a dozen plunges, before the
overthrown maid has fairly risen froni
the regretful lap, -
Alfred breaks his stretcher? And
Bob harpoons with his wherry a whale
imported for the occasion ? By no
means; but - a third wherry comes
sweeping by the boat-house, past the
wheezy judge, past the boy hung out
to dry, past the " Cleopatra," down
through the gap left for the racers.
How beautiful the stroke ! How
measured the rhythm! Surely we
have seen this stroke before ! The
crowd looks on, silent with admnira--
tion; only one enraptured youth ven-
tures an explosive "Golly !" as she
disappears around the bend of the
river. But admiration for her art is
the only sentiment that they feel;
it is no novelty to most of them to
see Miss Midsummer pulling in
her wherry, and they have not the
vaguest idea of connecting her with
this-race, -what matter to her, if two
young students choose to row a race
at Riverbank ? And so they imagine
that she is out to see the race, like
themselves, but, more inquisitive, is
pulling below the headland for a bet.-
ter view; and Galatea goes on pelt-
ing Damotas with apples, in true bu-
colic style.
The racers have been too busy with
each other to notice her until they
are rounding the headland, which
conceals the rest of the course from

I

Spoons in a Wherry.               6

the crowd above; and when they rec- antagonist, who seems to be failing ina
ogmize Miss Midsummer, they have strength. But the sun looks on and
the same thought as the rest, that she says, "Never fear!1. P've watched this,
is following them for a longer viewv. maiden aforetime; dux femina,"i-
So they shout, " Come along!i Shall but a cloud goes across his face and
we throw you a line ?" and put on a smothers the rest of his words.
"spurt" for her admiration. But, They pass Beaver Creek. They
heavens ! what do they see ? Surely are steering for Wolf Island, the
this is no holiday stroke that Miss turning-point, a short mile from the
Midsummer is pulling!i She does not start. Miss -Midsummer quickens
stop to admire their "spurt." She her stroke. If she can only gain an
does not pull in under the beeches to even start for the return, she feels
join her father in the shade ; but sure of the race ; but can she ? And
.with the same strong and graceful can she "live up to    h magnificent
sweep which had astonished them be- stroke that she is pulling ? She
fore, she follows straight after them, is still three lengths behind, and
merely avoiding their wake. And Wolf Island is almost reached. Al-
then their hearts go down into their fred begins to flag; their "spurt"
boots (no, their'slippers), as the whole has been too much for him; and be-
plot opens to them. sides, Puckle's Conies are not the
This, then, is her stratagem!i This best training diet in the world. Bob
accounts for the many times they forges ahead, his superb form throb-
have pulled her door-bell in vain, of bing with his work; and-in that
*late,- out practising. This tells the order they round the island, Bob
story of the bronzed features, -flow- leading Alfred, and Alfred Miss Mid-
er-garden, indeed ! This explains summer, each by a length. Here
'her excitement in the fields that af- Alfred strikes an eddy, at the farther
ternoon,- pulling on time!i end of the island, and finds himself
But all these reflections, which drifting hopelessly down stream ; he
skipped through their minds like a cries out, "I give up," but soon re-
flash, only served to nerve them still covers control of his boat, and pulls
more ; while indignation at her du- on. Bob, entering the eddy at a
plicity electrified them like wine ; less angle, cuts through it indeed,
and they said to themselves, "If this but finds himself on issuing from it
is what she wants, she shall have side by side with Miss Midsummer,
enough of it." Unchivalric juniors! who had given it a wide berth and
for juniors you may now call your- pulled around in smooth water., They
selves,                             look at each other for a second, as
How they pulled!i How the frail they catch the first stroke, and bend
boats leaped onward!i How the even to their work without a word. They
thud of their oars in the row-locks feel that the tug of war has come.
rang out sharp and distinct in the Neck and neck, they pull on. It is
stillness of the afternoon I Pull, my cruel to think of matching the two !
young men ! Insurgite remis / for Help her, water-nymphs I Put your
'      you have a heroine pressing you hard. white polished shoulders to her boat,
.And surely they are gaining on her. ,Sabrina, and help her onward!i Blow,
Inch by inch, but inevitably, they purest Oxygen, your "spicy methyl"
increase their distance from their fair to her relief! Beat bravely, faithful

69


q

70                     Spoons in
little heart! rump your red life into
her thrilling muscles! For you serve
a queen to-day.
Glorious Miss Midsummer! How
her resolute face glows with excite-
ment, her lips firmly compressed, in
orthodox boating fashion! how her
grandshouldersrise and fall, as regular
as the sweep of a planet! How clean
a stroke she pulls, oar-blades barely
covered in water, out and in without
a drop of spray! Heavens, how she
"recovers"! With what a spring
she rises to each stroke, until her oars
seem never in the air!
The sun is right; she may be trust-
ed. He has~not watched over her for
nineteen odd years in vain, nor given
her "nerves like his own sunbeams"
to no purpose. Now comes the re-
ward of years of divine health; how
she revels in it! She is Hebe!
Inch by inch, again they separate;
but this time it is Hebe who leads.
How Bob despises himself! How the
last winter's life comes up before him!
How the wraiths of all the "Ger-
mans" that lie had danced come
mocking him: "Ab, my fine fellow!
you were facileprinceps by gas-light;
but what are you in the light of the
sun?" And from high in the air
comes an orbicular little laugh, sliding
on a sunbeam, and striking the water
with a derisive "That's so!"
Miss Midsummer is drawing rapidly
away from him. As she does so, she
smiles to herself, for the first time,
and begins repeating to Bob, between
her strokes, "'And all persons - lay-
ing - or presuming to lay - claim
- to said affections - saving only
- the winner - as above described ~
(and this she repeated with empha-
sis) -"'the winne~' - as above de-
scri bed -shall immediately -there-
after"' (altering the slang) -" 'go
back- to - Camin-idge I"

a Wherry.
No wonder Bob's oars dropped
motionless, as the last word came
over, his shoulder and popped into
his ear. No wonder he wished him-
self bodily in the place to which he
was ordered by his oath.
For the oath now comes back to
him with its full force, for the first
time, strangely enough, since the race
began; and he sees too distinctly the
double plot in which they are caught.
They had reasoned thus, before the
race: "Here we are, in for a race;
we'll go in and see what turns up.
Miss M. assures us that' the cup and
the crowd are all right and the race
is to be square. We'll have some
sport, at least, and after it see what
she means to do about her valuable
affections." Then, in the race, seeing
her pursuing them, -" Ah, yes! this
is it. She's gotten us into the race
by that absurd oath, which was a
mere blind; she has hoodwinked us
by her mysterious references to its
phraseology, and it is only a decoy
duck, after all; while here ~s her real
game, to carry off the cup and huzzas
of the crowd. Very well schemed,
yoimg lady; but we'll see about it!"
With this reasoning, they had dis-
missed all thought of the oath,
thought that they saw the whole plot,
and resolved of course that the cup
and huzzas should be theirs.
They had never dreamed of her
being Machiavelli enough to include
herself in th9 oath, though her hand
was up with theirs; and through all
the struggle up to this point, they
had supposed themselves contending
for the cup and the empty honors of a
cheer. But now that the oath is
brought back to their minds so point-
edly, with so evident a hint, and they
see that there, after all, is the real
plot, and not only that, but that they
are caught in it, they are beside

I

Spoonful U
themselves. They are not so foolish
as not to interpret the phraseology,
now that it is thrown in their teeth
in this way. They see that there is
nothing in it to exclude Miss Mid-
summer (" as~ above described");
why didn't they think of that before?
Tle~ remember the prize mentioned
in the oath, and they see that she is
to be dictator over her own affections!
The idea of thinking that she was
rowing for a mere cup! They re-
member too well the condition of de-
feat, and they are bright enough to
take a hint when it is shouted at them
in italics.
But how to get out of their entan-
glement? Bob and Alfred consult a
half minute, Miss Midsummer rowing
on..................
Miss Midsummer appears to the
crowd above the point rowing lei-
surely, fresh from her inquisitive look-
out; she hugs the western shore
(happy shore!), leaving a clear place
for the racers, and telling her friends,
"They're coming. It's a very close
race; almost neck and neck!"
She rows to the stone boat-house.
The wherries come in aigl~t, round
the point, lapping each other, and
presenting, to all but Miss Midsum-

t a Wherry.                   71
mer, the appearance of a most des-
perate struggle. The cr~wd cheers,
swains grow savage at the admiration
diverted from themselves, and juve-
nile Riverbank throws its cap into
the water with excitement. They
pass the perplexed judge so nearly
abreast #hat his decision costs him
several pounds of cerebral phosphorus
and a tremor of apoplexy; while the
sun laughs "Ho-ho I"
The judge, however, recovered his
wits sufficiently to discharge a heavily-
ballasted oration at the young men,
in presenting the cup, alluding in
feeling terms to the glory of the an-
cient University and the prowess of
her nautical sons, "who could outstrip
even swift Atlanta in her course."
Whether the judge was in his niece's
confidence, they never knew; but
they feared.
The crowd which had gathered to
hear a classical speech of thanks
from Bob turned on its heel disap-
pointed, as he received the cup with
a simple, "Thanks, very much!" and
paddled off with Alfred to their boat-
house; where their first words. were,
"Shall we
"Let's."
And they did.

Burnett's Standard Flavoring Eztraots,
FOR COOKING PURPOSES
"Fre-eminently superior."-Parher House, Boston.
"The best in the world."-F(tlh Avenue Hotel, .N'ew YorA,.
"Used exclusively for years."-Continental Hotel, Philadelphia.
"We use them exclusively."-Sherman House, Chicago.
"We find them the best."-Southern Hotel, St. Louis.
"We find them excellent."-.-Occidental flotel, San Franeiseqq


72             Waveline, The Little Mermaid.
WAYELINE, THE LITTLE MERMAID.
A STORY FOR ChILDREN.
BY ANNIE MOORE.
How cross she was, and how she played truant.
Also what befell her.

Oxos there was a little mermaid,
and her name was Waveline.
She had beautiful yellow eyes like
the amber, and long, flowing hair, of
a lovely green.
She had a kind father and mother,
Mr. and Mrs. Deepwater, who did
all they could for her happiness.
She had a pleasant little grotto, all
for herself, and a soft, comfortable
bed of sea-moss.
She had a very nice comb, made of
a shark's jaw and teeth, and a mirror
cut from a polished shell.
And she could sit all day upon the
rocks, and comb her long hair, and
sing most charmingly.
She had pets, -a cat-fish, and a
faithful dog-fish who delighted to
follow her about, and who would have
saved her life any time, if she had
given him an opportunity.
She had a necklace of pearl, and
a necklace of lovely pink coral.
What more could she have asked,
if she had been a princess? and yet
her father was only a well-to-do mer-
man.
But, notwithstanding all these ad-
vantages, this little mermaid was
discontented. "My patience!" said
she one morning, pushing away her
plate and a shell of nice bread and
milk in disgust, "what a disagree-
able breakfast!"
"Hush! hush! Wavy, my dear,"
said her father: "the least said
about your patience the better."
"I can't help it," said she.
"There's water in this milk, I know;

for it tastes so salt; and these clams
are as clammy as they can be."
"You are mistaken about the
milk, my darling," said her mother;
"there's no water in it. I attended
to it myself, this morning. It's
very good for sea-cow's milk; and, as
to the clams, you know your father
prefers them clammy."
"I should think I might have an
eel, then," said Wavy.
Mrs. Deepwater turned pale as the
sea-foam. Mr. Deepwater dropped
his fork in horror; and his hair stood
on end, as much as such wet hair
could.
~ said he, "how can
you say so, after what we promised
the sea-serpent?"
At this, Waveline began to cry,
and pushed back her chair, and left
the room, only stopping on her way to
the door to say "Scat!" in rather a
fierce voice.
She said it to an affectionate cat-
fish and two dear frisky little kitten-
fishes, that wanted to play with her;
and they were so frightened, that they
bid away, and didn't show their little
noses again that day.
"What is the matter with the child,
and what shall we do with her?"
said her mother.
"Send her to school, I should say,"
said Mr. Deepwater. "I saw a school
of porpoises yesterday, when I went
up. They looked as happy and as fat
as possible. They were learning to
jump out of water; all in classes,
the best scholar at the head."

f

Waveline, The Little Mermaid.            '78

"I am afraid the sun would be too
hot for her up there," said Mrs. Deep-
water.
"No trouble about that, my dear,"
said Mr. Deepwater: "she'll be per-
fectly safe with a fresh sun-fish on
her head; and th~ knowledge she'll
gain may be useful to her.
"If the sea-serpent should forget
his part of the bargain, and come on
the rampage again, she could dodge
him by jumping out of water, and
coming down behind him."
"As you think best," said Mrs.
Deepwater; "but how can we per-
suade her to go?"
"Leave that to me, my dear~~~ said
Mr. Deepwater.
Now, Mr. Deepwater was at the
head of a large Meerschaum Factory.
It was a harassing business.
To be sure, the white of egg for the
sea-foam was all beaten by machin-
ery, but then there were the eggs
to be collected; and sea-birds will
steal their nests in such rocky and
dangerous places.
Besides, in order to do much in the
factory, there must be a good stirring
wind from the " nor'ard and eastward ~
so they lost a great many days.
But, notwithstanding he was so
busy, Mr. Deepwater took time to at-
tend to the matter of the school; and
fortunately Waveline favored the plan
instead of op~ksing it.
So, one bright morning, she put a
delicate rose-colored sun-fish on her
head, and tied it neatly under her chin
with a knot of fresh seaweed, - for
she knew it was becoming, -bade
her mother good-by, and swam along
by her father's side to the school
in a very amiable mood.
The schoolmaster was a middle-
aged merman, a friend of her father's.
lie was one of those who are "born
to command;" and, when persons of

that kind meet with those who are
"born to be commanded," all goes
merry as a diving-bell. Otherwise, not.
But he was admirably fitted for a
school-teacher. lie could hardly be
with you a minute without telling
you some better way to light your
pipe, or arrange your hair.
The schoolmaster received his new
pupil very kindly, and put her in the
middle class. There were three class-
es in his school. She would have
preferred the highest; but- that was
unreasonable, as she had never been
at school before.
The young mermaids were learning
to jump out of water; also to tell
the points of the compass, the signs
of the weather, and which way the
wind blew; and to polish shells, and
write on the sand, besides other
accomplishments.
In most ot these studies, she was
behind the rest, -jumping out of the
water, for example. She had never
practiced that.
But she knew all about the wind,
it was so connected with her father's
business; and she knew how to write
on the sand, for she had often helped
her father with his accounts.
She took the first prize in that
branch immediately, - a fan made of
the wing of a flying-fish.
This pleased her, and made her
father and mother very proud.
For a while, all went on quite swim-
mingly; but by and by, wh~en the nov-
elty began to 'wear off a little, it be-
came rather a task to go to school:
and at last -sad to tell! - this little
mermaid played truant.
Now, Mr. Deepwater disliked steal-
ing, and telling fibs, and all such
things, of course; but, if there was
one thing he disliked more than an-
other, it was playing truant.
So he was obliged to have a serious


74              Waveline, The.
talk with his daughter, the result of
which was, that she ivent back to
school, but was extremely cross for
several days; and thea she ra:j away
again.
Now comes the sad part of the
story.
She ran away again; that is, she
swanr away, at recess, very fast, and
very far, lest they should overtake her,
and bring her back.
When she thought she was far
away enough to be safe, she seated
herself on a rock, took her comb out
of her pocket, and arranged her hair
in the most be~vitohing manner,
singing at the same time a lovely song,
and thinking how much pleasnater it
was to be free, in the open sea, than
to be even at the head of the longest
class, in the largest school that was
ever heard of.
Alas I unfortunate young mer-
maid!
The evening sky was bright and
rosy. The waves played a light run-
ning accompaniment to her song, as
they broke upon the shore. The
echoes joined in the chorus; and all
was peaceful apparently.
But she little knew that she had
strayed into the dominion of her
father's enemy, the sea-serpent, and
that, attracted by her sweet song, he
was even now waiting round the cor-
ner, chuckling to himself at the
thought that he would carry her away
in a few minutes, when he was ready,
to sing for him.
He was ready as soon as she had
finished her song.
She heard a splash; and, at the
same moment, he took a double turn
round her waist, and swam off with
her, at the rate of I don't know
how many knots an hour, before she
had time to think, or even to wink.
She had always been remarkably

Little .Afermaid.
brave; but of course she was startled,
to say the least.
You would have been, I am sure,
to have a sea-serpent suddenly tied
in a knot round your waist, and to
find yourself rushing througls the
water at such a rate.
However, she didn't mind the
water, it was only time sea-serpent.
Her first thought was, - for she
was somewhat familiar with such
matters, -" What kind of a knot is
it? If it is a granny knot, all is
well; I can slip away. If not, not."
Her second thought ~vas, "I ~vish
I had a little more school-learning,
so that I could dodge him, as father
said, by jumping out of the water,
and coming down behind him."
But she could not "dodge him;"
and it was not a granny, but a
square knot.
The serpent was wiser than she
thought.
There was nothing for it but to
await the result.
It was unpleasant. She was never
so situated before but that by mak-
ing what might be called a touse, she
could have her own way.
This was a new experience. What
would her mother say, if she could
see her?
What would her father say, if Ito
could see her?
She knew what the schoolmaster
would say.
He would say, "I could have told
you so. You had better have taken
my advice, and attended to your
studies."
But, as I said before, there was
nothing to be done but to await the
result; and the result was, she sud-
denly found herself in a large cave,
brilliantly lighted, and with a nice
supper of fried eels, waiting to be
eaten.

Waveline, The
~ the reason we can't have
eels," thought she; 'the selfish fel-
low wants them all himself!" And
she was right. He did.
As soon as they entered the cave,
the sea-serj)ent clasped a magnificent
aquamarine l)racelet on her arm.
She ~vas (lazzled for a moment.
She had not expected such kindness.
But in the next moment she saw
that the guar(l-chain was unusually
long and strong, and that the other
end of it was fiis~tened to the wall.
In short, she was a prisoner. How-
ever, cross though she was, and
truant though site was, she had one
good quality, something derived,
perhaps, from her native shores.
That ~vas, "grit."
So she did not cry, or "take on,"
so to speak.
But she still awaited tIme m~esult.
She was to have a good supper of
eels, at all events, if she could find
an appetite; for the sea-serpent had
called his housekeeper, an elderly,
many-handed cuttle-fish, and given
her orders to put on another plate.
Waveline could not understand
their language; but "actions speak
louder than words." She saw the
plate, napkin, &amp;c., prepared for her.
The eels were savory. The sea-
serpent was apparently' an epicure.
After supper, she was left to her-
self, the idea being, evidently, that
she needed rest. I say left to her-
self; the cuttle-fish sat in the cor-
ner, wide awake and vigilant.
This experience was bringing out
Waveline's character.
Instead of distressing herself in any
way, she thought, "Here's a comfort-
able sofa. This chain is so long and
light that I never should notice it if
I shut my eyes."
So she shut her eyes, and didn't
open them again till daylight; when

Little Mermaid.                7b
she awoke refreshed, and saw the cut-
tIe-fish preparing breakfast.
On the principle that "many hands
make light work," this housekeeper
was admirably fitted for her position.
Now daylight had come, Waveline
knew that she must have her wits
about her, and not lose an opportunity
of making her escape.
They had eels for breakfast, fresh
an(l sweet.
After breakfast, the sea-serpent
came in, and said something that she
could not understand, because she was
not familiar with his language; but
seeing she did not understand, he
made a rough attempt at a song,
something like this: -
~:~4r~ Then she knew
that he wanted her
Mi, Sol." to sing.
That was just what she was not
disposed to do. She always felt a
little "stuffy," as we may say, in the
morning, so she ignored his request.
Luckily he was called away on
business, and did not come back un-
til dinner-time.
They had eels for dinner crisp
and delicious: Waveline was very
fond of eels.
After dinner, the sea-serpent went
out fishing, and, fastening the end of
her chain round his neck, took her
with him.
While he was fishing, he renewed
his request that she would sing forlmim.
And this time, as she felt more in
the mood of it, and thought perhaps
it would be wiser to oblige him, she
tang all her best songs.
Here is one which she had heard a
tailor singing, on a homeward-bound
tliip.
Oh! 'tis seven years and more,
Since I left my native shore,
For to sail upon the sea,
Where the winds do blow, -


76                 Wavelin
Seven long and weary year
And now, with many fears,
For to seek my little home
On the hills I go.
There I left my lovely Sue,
With her heart so warm ani
And her eyes wet with tears
/     When we said farewell.
Oh I if any harm hetide,
I shall wish that I hatl died,
Ere I left the little house
That 1 loved so ivell.
But while she was sing
took the opportunity to wri
thing upon the sand, which s.
her father would see if he
search of her. It was this:
"Wavy's a slave
In the sea-serpent's cave.'
Then they went back to t
where supper was waiting foe
Fried eels. Waveline iv
of eels, but she would not I
ejected to an occasional c
variety. After 5UpJ.)ei', she
to herself again, with the
keeper for a guard; and again
asleep on the sofa.
But this time her sleep we
quiet.
She dreamed of her fati
her mother, and of her little
and her faithful dog-fish.
And, every time she we
housekeeper's bright eyes we
her.
Finally daylight came; a
woke to see the housekeeper
ing the breakfast as before.
Eels! eels! nothing but eel
Waveline sighed for a clam
The sea-serpent again as
to sing.
She sang, although she was
spirits for it; but she felt 1
must try to appear contented
der not to be watched so close
When the sea-serpent weni

e, The

Little~ Mermaid.

* business that morning, he led her
outside the cave, and gave her in
charge of an enormous five-finger,
or star fish, as they are sometimes
called; directing hiln, as she judged
I true,  from his gestures, to hold the chain
tight.
She felt that her only chance of
escape lay in the possibility of cajol-
ing that five-finger.
But, a~ she was preparing to cajole
ing, she him, she heard a joyful bark of recog-
te some- nation, and saw her faithful dog-fish
he hoped at her side.
came in Not far behind him was her beloved
faTher; who had come to the rescue,
with about fifty of the employees of
tlse meerschaum factory.
Her father had seen her writing
he cave, on the sand; and the faithful dog-fisis
them. had aided them in the search.
as fond It was a happy meeting.
rnve ob- They easily overpowered the five-
lam, for finger, though they ivould willingly
was left have spared him. But the clasp of
house- the bracelet was so complicated, that
she fell no one of them could unfasten it; and
the five-finger would not let go the
is not so chain.
lie probably thought, that, if they
~er and did not kill him, his master, the sea-
grotto, serpent, would; and he preferred to
die at his post. So they quickly de-
ike, the snatched him, and then hurried away,
re upon and were soon out of the domain of
their enemy.
nd she     Here let me say one word for the
prepar- sea-serpent, in case this should ever
meet his eye.
Is!        Although lie was no better than a
heathen, to be sure, yet he probably
ked her meant no harm in stealing away the
little mer~naid.
I not in   But he was very lonely in his
~at she cave.
in or-   His housekeeper was no companion
ly.     for him.
to his He was extravagantly fond 0'

A Night
music, and felt that he must have
some one to sing to him. That was
all.
'When the little mermaid saw her
home, and her mother again, she was
afThcted to tears. The briny drops
flowed down upon the sand. She
threw herself upon her mother's neck,
and begged her to forgive her for
having been such a disagreeable
daughter, and promised to do better
in future.
Her mother was so glad to see her,
that she didn't care whether she ivas
agreeable or disagreeable. She was
her lost daughter, found at last, and
that was all she thought of; for
Mr. and Mrs. Deepwater had been
almost distracted, of course, in the
two or three days she was lost. They

into my room early one morning before
I was dressed.
"Good God! Jack, it is impossi-
ble. I left him at ida own door at

Burnett's Coooaine:
A COMPOTJND O~' COCOA-NUT OIL, STC.
Prevents the hair from falling off.
Promotes its healthy vigorous growth.
Is not greasy or stzclcy.
Leaves no disagreeable odor.
&amp;ftens the hair when hard and dry.
,Soothe8 the irritated scalp-shin.
Affords the richest lustre.
Remains longest in effect.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST HAIR DRESSING
IN THE WORLD.

A NIGHT OF TERROR.
DY MRS. 5. DE PONTE.

of Terror.                    77
had no doubt that the sea-serpent
was at the bottom of it; and, with
their opinion of him, they never ex~~
pected to see her alive. And now she
was restored to them, more beauti-
ful and blooming if possible than
ever. They could hardly be thankful
enough.
It was not long before Waveline
said to her mother, "Dear mother,
Isave you such a thing as a clam in
the ~
11cr moUser not only had such a
thing in the house, but there was at
that very moment a delicious clam-
chowder, all ready for dinner. Never
had any thing tasted so good to Wave-
line, and never did three people have
a merrier, happier time, over a clam-
chowder.

"CHARLIR, do you know that your
bosom-friend, Ethan Grey, is dead?
He died suddenly last night," cried
Jack Allain, rushing unceremoniously


78                      ANiqId
eleven last night, in as good health as
ever."
But as I spoke, I saw from Mr.
Allain's pale face that there was no
mistake, and there immediately flashed
across my mind the remembrance of
an old promise that I had made to
Ethan Grey, which I had renewed
the night before. I am not ashamed
to say that this memory brought cold
dews of terror to my body. My com-
panion observed my sudden pallor, and
strove in his rough way to comfort me.
lie was a next-door neighbor of the
Greys, and had been summoned to
their house by the cries of Mrs. Grey,
who, on going to her son's room to
awaken him, had found him stiff and
dead in his bed.
"The old lady is dreadfully cut-up,
Charlie," he said in conclusion, "and
there is no one but Ethan's sister Edith
to see to anything. It was she that sent
me to you."
"My poor girl," I cried, as I hastily
dressed myself, for Edith and I were
engaged to be married. As 1 walked
rapidly to Mrs. Grey's, I could only re-
member that Ethan was dead, and that
I should be called upon to fulfil the
promise already referred to. The
thought was a selfish one, I will admit,
but I have ever been of a nervous,
sensitive temperament.
Ethan Grey and I had been school-
mates; we graduated from college at
the same time, and started in life to..
gather, - he as a disciple of law, and
I as a doctor. We disagreed on many
subjects, without any bitterness, how-
ever. When about eighteen, and
while we were still at college, Ethan
wandered from the church of which
we were both members, to follow after
a false teacher. He had by chance
come in contact with an infidel, a man
of great talent, who had been a minis-
ter of the gospel, but who had been
degraded from his sacred calliiig for ir-
regularity of life. Specious and do-

of Terror.
quent, this man was a dangerous com-
panion.
Unfortunately Ethan, who was easily
influenced, fell nuder his influence and
became fully imbued with his views.
After knowing this preacher for a while,
he horrified me by the denial of a
higher and more perfect state of ex-
istence, and by declaring that the "next
world was a coffin."
At college we passed many long
nights in arguing the question. I at
that period being very orthodox, was
uncharitable, insisting that for my
frieiid there would be no salvation, if
he did not return to the old belief.
Ozie night after a hotter argument than
usual, 1 made some remark indicative
of pity for his soul when it should
leave his body. Turning to me grave-
ly, after a moment's pause, he said,
"Charlie you may be right in ~your
belief of a future state, yet I cannot as
cribe to the Great Unknown the cruel
attributes with which the orthodox de-
light to clothe Him. I believe that if
there is a hereafter my soul will enjoy
it as well as yours. We are both
seekers' after truth. Should I die first
and the spiritual essence called the
soul leave my body, if it is permit-
ted, it shall make itself mamiifest to
you - to more than one of your
seuises shall it appeal, and that within
twenty-four hours after my death. if
we continue to live in the same village,
- as is most likely, - sit up alone with
my body the first night, and I will then
visit you. Is it a bargain, Charlie?"
"Yes, Ethan, I will willingly agree;
and should I die first you will sit up
with me, and I will come and warn you
to repent and believe," was my eager
answer.
At the time that we made this
strange compact my health was by no
menus robust. I was of a nervous, sen-
sitive temperament, fostered by close
apphicatioui to study, and I believed that
I should die early. For the salvation

A N0At of Terror.                70

of my friend I almost hoped that I
sli ould. Shortly after this we left col-
lege. In more active life aiid the
rough struggle a young man with his
own way to make encounters, many
morbid ideas were dispelled; my
health had improved, and I had almost
forgotten my engagement with Ethan,
though we were still much together,
his gentle sister Edith being my affi-
anced.
Our old discussions on religion were
never resumed. Ethan attended church
regularly with his family, and seemed
to - have forgotten his infidel friend.
Whether he had or not I cannot say.
The evening before his death was spent
by me as usual with Edith. Ethan was
present, joyous and hopeful of the fu-
ture. 1 observed nothing uncommon
in his manners or conversation till lie
accompanied me to the door. He stood
beside me looking at the stars while I
lighted a cigar, when suddenly catch-
ing my hand, he said, "Charlie, all
looks very quiet and beautiful up there.
I hope you have not forgotten our col-
lege compact. You are strong now
and will see me out."
"Hush, Ethan I" I replied almost an-
grily. "What folly to talk so, you
who have never had a day's sickness
in your life."
"True, Charlie, yet all is not right
here, I am sure," he replied, touching
his heart in a half-laughing manner;
"don't forget your promise, old fellow,
if you are called upon."
"Luve-sick?" I asked, jestingly;
"all right, I will keep my promise
any time within the next fifty years.
Good-bye," I continued, puffing my
cigar into brightness sal shook hands
with him.
And now he was dead and I should
have to keep my word.
I spent the day at Mrs. Grey's com-
forting Edith, and, as she had no rel-
atives in the village, ordering every-
thing for the funeral, which was to

take place the next day. In my ac.
tive and unaccustomed duties the long
night yet to come was almost forgot-
ten.
The comfortable old farm-house had
already put on a strange, forlorn look,
and each hour I missed more and
more my poor friend's cheerful voice
and genial presence. We had placed
the corpse in the long, dark, oak-pan-
elled sitting-room. The coffin stood
on the table directly before the wide
old chimney, up whose capacious fun-
nel Ethan atid more than one of his
ancestors had shouted childish prayers
to old Santa Claus, and in the blaze
of whose roaring fires, as* men and
boys, they had warmed themselves.
It was a quaint, comfortable old
room. At one side stood an old fhsh-
ioned English buffet, on the other a
tall Dutch clock, such as our ancestors
used, which had been ~n the family for
generations, - brought over from the
old homestead when the Cavaliers first
fled to Virginia, so it was said.
A few minutes past eleven I pressed
my lips to the cheek of the still weep-
ing Edith and entered the room where
the corpse lay, to commence my lone-
ly vigil.
Eestlesa and excited I paced the
room, or stood silent by the body gaz-
ing at all that remained of poor Ethan,
and allowing memory to wander back,
till the real had passed from my phys-
ical vision and I was living over the
past. My deep reverie was suddenly
dispelled by hearing a dull heavy blow
struck near me on the coffin, - such a
thud as a clod of earth would make
if thrown upon it. At the same mo
ment the clock commenced striking,
and a huge black creature rushed from
under the coffin past me, disappearing
through the door. Trembling I fell
upon a chair, and sat staring at the
corpse, expecting each nioment to hear
its voice break the dreadful silence.
It did not move; ghastly pale m


A A7i~gIit of Terror.

the dim lamplight it lay, wearing yet Pacing backwards and forwards 1
the smile Ethan had died with. Un- almost stumbled over a black cat steal.
able to endure the awful suspense of ing into the room. I recognized the
expectation, I rushed to the door de- creature as a pet of Etban's. As I
determined to call some of the servants watched her she walked under the
to sit with me. table upon which the corpse lay and
All looked dark and quiet. Grow- quietly ensconced herself in a box,
ing ashamed of my terrors, I returned evidently her bed, standing in the cor-
to the room exclaiming, - ncr by the clock. Here, thought I,
"Ethan, I will keep my promise to. with a feeling of relief, is an explana-
you, and remain alone to meet your tion of the dark object I saw rush
spirit." past me. But the noise could have
I sat down resolutely and fixed my beet: ni creation of my fancy, as the
eyes upon the corpse, determined to cat must have also heard it and fled in
watch closely. Heave::s! even now fright. Collecting my scattered senses,
I can remember how long the minutes I resolved to watch the animal and see
seemed. I could watch their passage if she were in any way connected with
by the old clock standing opposite me; the noise. It wanted but a few mo-
five went by, ten, a half hour past, ments of two. To accomplish my pur-
three quarters, still no movement, pose conveniently I placed myself close
"Almost one o'clock," I exclaimed, to pussy, my back to the clock, nearly
in a low voice with a sigh of relief, touching it.
closing my achitig eyes and pressing I could almost hear the beating of
the burning balls with my f~sgers. my heart while watching the cat and
Scarce were they closed when again counting the ceaseless ticking of the
came that dreadful blow, and as I time-piece. I felt that it was on the
opened my eyes the black object darted stroke of two; my heart stood still
by while the clock tolled one. for an instant, as I heard the dull
"God in heaven I" I cried, starting heavy thud, - not from the coffin
up. "Am I never again to know rest? though, but from the inside of that tie-
Is that frightful sound to haunt me various clock. Away fled pussy, while
whenever I close my eyes? 0 I turned with a groan of relief to wind
Ethan, dear friend, I cannot keep this up the tune-piece, wondering at my
frightful compact. If it is your spirit stupidity in not before remembering
striving to free itself, speak, makes some that when nearly run down the weights
sign, tell me what I shall do to give fell with a heavy blow as it struck the
you rest?" hour.
No answer came from the cold lips. In a little while pussy returned to
I heard naught, saw naught but that her bed, and she and I passed the
smile which now seemed to mock me. rest of the night without further alarm.
In agony I started up and paced Strange to say I did not escape as
the room. I would call none to wit- easily as pussy. My locks of ebon
ness my terror. As long as my eyes blackness when I entered that room,
were open and I conscious, I had not were in the morning powdered with
been disturbed. I also remembered gray, and it was long before I told the
that it had only been once an hour that little wife, poor Ethan's sister, now sit..
I had heard the noise, and I felt safe ting opposite to me, the story of that
for a while. night's vigil.

The Hou8ek~
THE HOUSEI{E

I.
"WELL, my dear, as you please;
but, if I might be allowed to ask the
question, Why do you object to merely
allowing my young friend an oppor-
tunity to commend himself to you?
I ask no more at present."
"For a thousand reasons: it would
be an absurd and cruel thing to let
your friend visit here with the faintest
idea that I would ever even dream of
marrying him; he might have an
opportunity any day for ten years, and
he could never commend himself to
me."
"You are extravagant, my dear, and
violent; but, being a young woman,
I suppose you cannot help it. You
* will concede, I suppose, that young
women have changed their minds on
that and other subjects?"
"Certainly, I will concede it with
pleasure; but that does not prove that
Twill change my mind."
"No," lie murmured; "it only
makes it very possible."
"Every thing is possible, Uncle
Roger; but my changing my mind
has nothing to do with what we were
speaking ,about. Do you really in-
tend to refuse your consent to my
being declared of age next March?
Do you mean to keep me like a child
until I am twenty-six?"
"I certainly do, my dear, unless you
will receive the addresses of an honest,
reliable young man like Joseph
Lawson, who is capable of taking care
of you and your money."
"You have a bad opinion of women,
Uncle Roger; you think they are
silly, unreasonable idiots, unfit to be
trusted with money."
"You are growing angry: we had

80

eper'8 Story.                 81
EPER'S STORY.
better hasten to put an end to this
conversation. My opinion of women
is not as high as their opinion of
themselves. It is true that I con- s 4
sider them extravagant, unreasonable,
and unfit to be trusted with money;
but I have never intimated that they
wAere idiots, or that they were invari-
ably without principle."
"Thank you," answered the young
girl sarcastically, rising quickly and
turning to the door.
"One moment, my dear! Will you
give me one reason (I suppose you
have a thousand, but one will do) why
you will not marry Mr. Lawson?"
"I will he more liberal, Uncle
Roger," she answered, turning to
him, with one hand still on the handle
of the door; "I will give you three:
in the first place, I do not want to
marry anybody; in the second place,
I do not love Mr. Joseph Lawson,
who, in the third place, is a solemn,
ineffable prig."
Mr. Pierrepoint leaned back in his
chair, and passed his delicate hand
over his mouth to conceal a smile. It
amused him to see the indignation of
the young girl, though he really
understood her no b~ter than an
old greyhound understands a young
shepherd dog. "Mr. Lawson appears
to be a well-meaning, high-principled
young man, with a tolerable amount
of information," he continued after a
pause.
"He may be a king of men, Uncle
Roger, but I would rather work as a
cook and housemaid than live with him
~1
for one year. You need not call that
an extravagance," she continued has-  JJ11~
tily, as her uncle glanced at her deli-
cate white hand. "If the alternative


82                 The ifousek
was offered me, I would not hesitate.
I would be cook or housemaid gladly
8        for a year, if that were the only way
8        to save myself from Joseph Lawson."
8          "Cook and housemaid, I think
you said."
"Yr~ry well, Uncle Roger, cook
and housemaid."
"If you are in earnest, Kate, you
will have an opportunity to prove it."
Kate looked at him with surprise,
as, having arrived at a crisis in the
affair, he rose and stood majestically
with his back to the blazing fire,
and the supercilious look in his face
that always stirred her 4o deep
"I 'will take you at your word,
and try you with your own test. If
you will serve as cook and house-
maid (without mental reservation,
mind you), as any respectable girl
would, for six months, I will declare
you age on the first of March, and
never mention Joseph Lawson to you
again. I do not wish an answer."
His niece had made an eager step
forward; but at this she turned,
laughing lightly. "Good-by, sir.
I        I am going to Aunt Lydia's to-mor-
row, you know.~~
Once out of the room she ran down
the broad hall as if she were sixteen,
and turned into her flower-room, out
of which her pretty study opened.
She4egan to examine plant after
plant, peering into clusters of leaves
in search of flowers, and here and
There snapping off a dead twig, or
taking away a withered leaf. All
the time she was thinking hard; not
making up her mind, -that had been
done in her uncle's presence, - but
planning. She would start from Mrs.
Lydia Seton's, her mother's sister:
her new life should begin there, and
Aunt Lydia should be her only confi-.
dante. That point decided, she be-

e~per's Story.
gan to shrug her shoulders at the
prospect before her of six mouths
in the kitchen. She walked slowly
into her study, and, falling into ~he
first easy-chair in her way, began to
look ruefully about, at the pretty,
luxurious room, its books and pictures,
the harmonious brown and gold and
crimson. The chair was very com-
fortable, the Turkey rug was soft and
lovely to the eye; on one side she
could look into the glowing heart of
the green, sunny conservatory, and
on the other into her large bedroom,
delicately and completely appointed.
Then - six months in a kitchen,
hard-backed chairs, that hideous
stove, and the pump 1 "Perhaps
the butcher will ivant to 'keep com-
pany~ with me," she sighed rather
disconsolately.
II.
"Are we going to have breakfast
this morning, my dear?"
Mr. Austin asked this question in
a good-humored, suggestive way, as
he came into the sunny breakfast-
room, about t~venty minutes past
eight, to find his wife, flushed an(l
weary, putting a loaf with a very
burnt top on the table, as a finishing
stroke.
"Hullo! What's the matter?
Where's Belinda?"
"You know she went last night,
John."
"So she did, little woman. Why
didn't you wake me? I'd have helped
you: it wouldn't have been~-the first
time."
"It was no use; the horrid thing
left every thing in rather better order
than the others did, and I made a
wood fire."
She sat down as she spoke, and
began to pour out the coffee. It was
very weak; but Mr. Austin pretended
to enjoy it, and not to know that the

The Hou8ek~
water was badly smoked. "John,
you needn't look so delighted with
your breakfast. I know every thing
is disgusting, but you see I forgot
Belinda had gone, and slept too late.
I can do better than this; you know
I can."
"Certainly you can, dear; and
really, it might have been worse."
"I don't see how."
"Why, the milk might have been
burned." Then, after a moment's
l)ause, he continued, "What are you
going to do now? advertise?"
"Oh, no indeed! Did you bring
the paper up from the office last
night? I am going to take the first
'Wanted I see, and work my way
down the list."
"Poor little soul, come here on my
knee, and we'll go on the voyage of
discovery togethcr.~~
So she perched herself on his knee,
and unfolded the paper.
The first "want" was a "young
~C~5Ofl who fishedd to do dining-room
work in a small family with no
children."
"II~r work wouldn't keep her long
lucre, John; she might take in plain
serving and make a
"Hullo I Elsie, here's something
promising, very: 'Wanted, by a
young woman, a place in a small
family as cook and housemaid; can-
not do the washing; wages ten dol-
lars; small country town preferred.'
There, what do you think of that?
Somebody has heard of our necessities,
and is rushing to our aid."
"But ten dollars is a good deal
without the washing."
"Not for a superior young womlin
who prefers a country town."
"How do you know she is supe-
riot, John? Don't be absurd; it's too
serious a matter; if you had to" -
"There, there, dear! I know it,

~eper's Story.                 83
it's confoundedly hard on you. You
needn't think I ever forget it." He
looked so really distressed that she
reproached herself for being cross,
and her little penitent kiss restored
his good spirits immediately, and he
continued gayly, "You write to this
young woman, Elsie. I feel in my
bones, as you women say, that she'll
turn up a trump: we'll call her m~ij
venture."
"Do you remember big Margaret?
She was one of your ventures, and
got drunk and smashed a dozen tea-
cups, and then cried for two days."
"'True, my dear; but we will not
touch the ashes of the past. I advise
you to try this young woman."
When Mr. Austin had gone to his
office, Mrs. Austin sat down to her
pretty desk, and wrote to the young
woman to come immediately. In a
day or two, Mr. Austin brought his
tired wife a letter. "News of the
coming woman, perhaps."
"Yes. I am thankful to say she is
coming to-morrow. Somebody has
written the letter for her. See, John,
what a nice hand I"
"By George! a splendid hand! Re-
member, she is m~y venture. By the
way, I'll not be here to see her debut.
I am' going to Lyne on business."
"0 John! for how long?"
"' I can't be back to-night, and per-
haps my business will keep me all to-
morrow. In that case, I will get
home at midnight."
"Well, I am not very sorry. I
will send for Judith, and have the
kitchen cleaned within an inch of its
life; and your venture shall have a
fair chance. 0 John! if she is only
deccuit, I will be thankful."
"Elsie, you must do as the old
housekeeper advised, 'learn to
wink."'
"Wink! why, I have shut my eyes


84:                 The Houselce
tight; but I can't shut my~nose, and
you won't shut" -
"My mouth? Well, dear, good-by.
Keep a good heart. I'll be back to
dinner; and will you have my bag
ready?"
"Yes; I'll see to your bag; butl
don't know what kind of a dinner
you'll get. Will hash and potatoes do,
and apples for dessert?"
"Delicious! Good-by."
Mrs. Austin was an active manager
of the Industrial School in Bideford,
and also of the Benevolent Society.
She had a tolerably large correspond-
ence; she liked to read; she wished
to keep up her music, of which she ~vas
passionately fond, and to read the
newspapers; - which last she did as
much for John's sake as for her own.
He must have somebody to talk to
about free trade and the French war.
She had the sewing arLdmending to do;
to take a list of the clothes ~vhich
~vent out to wash, and to see that
they were right when they came
back; she had visits to pay and to
receive; she had dusting and super-
vising to do; and, in the frequent gaps
in the procession of coming and de-
parting foreigners, she had to add
their work to her own, and to do it,
after a certain fashion, and with what
outside help she could get. There
are but twenty-four hours in the day,
and some of these are of necessity
passed in bed; so she was forced to
leave many things undone, and she
was wearied and harassed and vexed
with trying vainly to do double duty,
and to do it well.
III'
THE train by which she expected
the "venture" would be in at three
o'clock. The sunny kitchen was
shining with cleanliness; every thing
was in order. The bin in the out-

eper's Story.
house close at hand was full of coal,
the wood-box full of kindling. Old
Judith stood contemplating her work
with satisfaction.
"Shure, an' its dane to begin wid;
and the flure and table as white as a
hound's tooth; but's (with an inde.-
scribable gesture of hands and head)
"by Sunday night ye might plant
petatys all over the pleace.~~
"0 Judith! not so bad as that! but
I suppose it will be bad enough;" and
the poor woman sighed as she spoke.
She turned away, saying, "Judith,
will you wait here for her? I must
go down to Mrs. Bolton's, and may
be I won't be at home in time."
"I will, ~ said Judith cheer-
fully. There are exceptions to every
rule, and Judith was "clean and
kind."
It was late when Mrs. Austin re-
turned home, nervous and tired~ Old
Judith opened the door for her.
"Is she come?"
"Yis, main, the lady's in beyan~.~~
"Lady!. what do you mean, Ju-
dith?"
"Oh, ye'11 see, main!~~ with many
winks and chuckles. "Ye've got a
lady this time;" and she went along
to the kitchen, nodding sagaciously.
"I may as ~vell have it over," poor
little Mrs. Austin muttered, follow-
ing closely, with despair in her
heart.
The afternoon sun was streaming
in the window over a bunch of rose-
colored asters, in a blue and white
jug on the sill, and surrounding the
young ~voman who "preferred a coun-
try town~' ~vith a sort of glory.
She stood in the light, a sweet, grace-
ful figure, with a crown of splendid
hair, wound round her head in close,
heavy braids~ She wore a dress of
shepherd's plaid, simply made and
trimmed; and on the table lay little

The IIouse~
plain bonnet, and a pair of dark kir
gloves, carefully mended. The in-
stinct of caste told Mrs. Austin in an
instant that this was no servant, in
spite of the attempt to look respect.
ble, instead of elegant. She blushed
crimson as she stepped forward, and felt
so furious at old Judith, nodding in
the background, that she could will-
ingly have shaken her. The young
woman rook the initiative, saying in
a quiet, educated voice, "I am the
person you expected from New York,
Mrs. Austin."
"But I think it must be a mistake.
I wanted a cook and housemaid." She
glanced at the new-coiner's lady-like
hands as she spoke.
"That is the kind of place I adver-
tised for. You said nothing about a
character, but I thought you would
prefer to have one. You will see
that I understand my business."
Somewhat re-assured by this talk of
"character," Mrs. Austin took the
paper extended to her.
"Kate Horton is an excellent cook,
perfectly honest and sober and tidy."
This certificate was signed by a lady
whose character and whose handwrit-
ing were well known to Mrs. Austin,
and was therefore perfectly satisfac-
tory; but the dismay at having a
lady on her hands, instead of a ser-
vant, grew greater and greater; and in
her disappointment and nervousness
she could hardly keep back the tears.
She had suffered with quasi ladies
and their airs and graces: What would
she do with a real one? She could
summon only the ghost of the cor-
diality with which she was wont to
~vpThome and propitiate each new
trial; and, committing Kate Horton to
Judith for the present, she ran up
stairs, and falling on the bed, began to
cry like a baby; and like a baby, cried
herself to sleep.

deeper's Story.
In the mean time, Judith showed
Kate over her new territory, and took
shrewd mental notes as she ivent. It
was a nice, convenient kitchen, with a
good floor, painted and well varnished;
a round table in the middle, a sink
with a good pump, and convenient
closets. In an outhouse, close by the
back door, was a good-sized bin full
of coal, with a small compartment
near for kindling-wood. These were
filled once a week by a man who came
for the purpose, and old Judith also
came for one day's cleaning every
week. The outhouse was nicely fin-
ished inside, and weather-tight, so
that a good deal of work could be
done there in mild weather. The ser-
vant's room was over the kitchen, and
was a clean, airy chamber, with a bed,
a table, a washstand and bureau, a
chair, and a strip of carpet by the bed.
The sheets were whole and white, and
the window had a clean white curtain;
the basin and pitcher were good; but
the watchful Judith saw a little rue-
ful look come into Kate's face, and put
down in her note-book, that a clean,
bare little room, like this, was some-
thing new to her experience. She
also noted the new-corner's anxious
inquiries about the Jast occupant, and
her look of relief at hearing that she
was "as clans as she was upsettin'."
At last Judith went off, saying, in
a respectful tone, "Good-night, Miss
Kate."
"Why do you call me 'miss,' Ju-
dith? You make me ridiculous.
Kate, if you please."
"Very well, main; I will."
Left alone, Kate began to think
about the mistress of the new home.
She had seen at a glance that she
was tired and anxious and disap-
pointed, and she decided that a good
tea would do her as much good as
any thing so she tied on a brown


86                  The llousek
apron (her trunk was already in the
little room up stairs), and ~~'ent into
the dining-room. She set the table,
arra[Iging the pretty chum and silver
after her own fancy, as she had no
rule to go by. The table 'vas round
and polished, and therefore needed no
cloth for tea; but she spread the little
oval waiter with a fair white napkin,
and set the tea-pot and water-kettle in
their places. Then she went back to
the kitchen, where the kettle was
singing on the stove, and took down
a saucepan, a bowl, and a soup-plate.
From the egg-basket she took three
eggs for the omelette which she intend-
ed; and, after a moment's hesitation
(for she was very much afraid of rats),
she went heroically down into the cel-
lar with a pitcher and a plate, and
brought up the milk and a piece of
butter. She made one more journey
for the ice, which she cracked off
carefully, and brought up stairs for
the butter and the water-pitcher.
It was now within a quarter of an
hour of six, which Judith had told
her was the tea-hour. So, putting
her saucepan on the stove to heat, she
went up stairs to call Mrs. Austin.
She knocked softly at the door
which Judith had pointed out as be-
longing to Mrs. Austin's room.
"It is nearly six, Mrs. ~
The little lady woke up suddenly.
"Nearly six! I will be down in
two minutes." And as she hurriedly
bathed her face, and changed her
dress, she kept vituperating herself
for her stupidity. "The first day, and
every thing strange! Oh, how foolish
to go to sleep!,,
When Kate carried in the quiver-
ing golden-brown omelette, and the
boiling tea-kettle, she found Mrs. Aus-
tin already standing by the table. The
dainty arrangement of every thing,
and the vase with one late rose, which

eeper's Story.
crowned the whole, filled her with
amazed delight; and, being hungry.
the omelette smelled savory and allur-
ing. As she sat down and made the
tea, she thanked God, and took cour-
age. As long as she did not see Kate,
she ~vns content: but the sight of her
graceful figure filled her with con-
fused ideas of asking her to sit down,
and keep her company; so that she
was relieved when Kate quietly put
a bell beside her, and left the room.
She made a good meal, and enjoyed
it; and determined to leave the break-
fast in such skilful hands, and think
no more about it. As she lingered
over her second cup, Kate in the
kitchen had "cleaned up," and was
standing in the twilight, looking
somewhat wistfully at the red wes-
tern sky, shining between some tall
pine-trees. The tinkle of the bell
startled her, and very unreasonably.
provoked her for an instant; then she
quickly answered it. "I have done,
Kate; take your tea, and then wash
the tea-things in here," said Mrs.
Austin, in a scared tone: for the
twilight seemed to enhance the in-
congruity of such as Kate being or-
dered to do any thing. However, she
left her, and went into the parlor;
where she lighted the student's lamp,
and sat down to think. Kate's sup-
per was a slice of brown bread and
cutter, as she despised tea, and had
lost her appetite for the present. By
seven, all her work was done; and she
sat down on a little seat under the
grape-arbor, and felt very blue. Mrs.
Austin was almost as blue in the par-
lor. Tt seemed absurd that she should
be alone in the parlor, and Kate, a
lady by every token, alone in the
kitchen. "If the millennium ever
comes, and ladies do take such places
as this, one might have a charming
society in the house; but I don't

know, the drawbacks would be
great. It would be embarrassing to
have your friend eating in the kitchen,
and waiting on the table, if you had a
dinner-party."
At nine o'clock Kate made her
preparations for morning. Oh, the
morning I And to have to getup, and
make a fire, and co~pk a breakfast, in-
stead of dressing leisurely in a warm
room, finding a table spread with good
things from one cares very little
where.
Iv.
The breakfast hour was eight: by
half-past six, Kate - who, thanks to
youth and fatigue, had slept as
soundly in her little iron bedstead as
she had ever done at home was in
the kitchen.
She shook the fire well and opened
the araughts, shivering a little in the
chill morning air, and thinking of the
coming Winter. The morning was
charibing; and there was something
wonderfully pure and exhilarating in
the atmosphere, and lonely in the
long, long shadows from the east.
By the time the "firing-up" was
done, the milk-boy was beating a tat-
too on the kitchen door. He was a
fresh-faced, saucy boy, who stood
amazed and suddenly struck dumb,
by the apparition which opened to
him; 'an apparition clad in a violet
calico dress, with a big check apron
tied about a graceful waist. It took
the three-quart can from him, with a
smile, and thanketi him in a pretty
voice, and made him its slave for-
ever.
Mr. Austin had duly returned in
the middle of the night, and had
been informed of the arrival of the
"venture."
"Is she a paragon, or a failure?~~
"You'll see to-morrow she is a
little of both."

The Hou8eleeeper'8 Story.

So in the morning Mr. Austin pre-
pared for breakfast, with an agreeable
sense of expectation.
Mrs. Austin refused to go down tc
superintend. She said Kate had
done well enough the night before,
and that it would be a good lesson to
leave her to her own resources. Mr.
Austin accused her of being afraid to
venture down alone. At eight o'clock
they heard the tinkle of the breakfast
bell, and weAjt down prepared for
any thing.
Mr. Austin almost started, and was
as much amazed as the milk-boy had
been an hour before, at the sight of
his new servant, standing behind Mrs.
Austin's chair. Her fresh beauty
and her exquisite neatness, the lady-
hood that was not to be mistaken or
obscured, made him understand why
his wife had pronounced this paragon
a little of a failure too. It was em-
barrassing to be waited upon by a
woman who was in every way fit to
sit at your table; but the feeling
vitnished before Kate's matter-of-fact
manner, and the charms of the de-
licious coffee and delicate rolls; and
lie afterwards pronounced it a break-
fast too good for a king, and good
enough for a lawyer.
Life began to put on bright colors
for Mrs. Austin. She began to prac-
tise, to read, to enjoy herself; the
work that was left for her could be
done perfectly and in its own time.
It did her heart good to look about
the little kitchen, which had taken on
an air of refinement which it would not
be easy to define. Kate did her own
scrubbing with a long-handled scrub-
bing-brush; and as she never dropped
her potato-parings on the floor, or
filled a slop-pail to overflowing, there
was little dirt to scrub up. Old Ju-
dith came once a week, and gave pots
and pans an ezra scouring. Illvery


88                  The Ilouseke
thing was delicately clean, and Kate
was as much an ornament as the blue-
and-white jnr alwa3 s full of flowers
or leaves. There were a few books
on a shelf by the window; and by
half-past three, often earlier, the
strange spectacle of a kitchen table
covered with books and papers might
be seen, and a woman studying as
serenely as if she had not just washed
up all the dishes from a dinner she
had herself cooked. Her only fault,
in Mrs. Austin's eyes, was a persistent
refusal to be drawn over a certain
line. It would have been pleasant if
she would sometimes have forgotten
that Mrs. Austin was the employer
and she the employed; and yet it had
to be confessed that it was better
upon the whole, and saved embarrass-
ments. She was interested, kindly,
obliging, suggestive, but iiever step-
ped out of her place, or seemed
conscious that Bideford was ringing
with her name and fame.
By that perception which seems
keener in the laboring class than in
the one above it, the butcher, the
baker, and candlestick-maker, and all
the neighboringcooks and housemaids,
recognized from the first her superi-
ority, and accepted her kind words
and deeds as from one above them, in
spite of the absence of all pretension.
As she was not obliged to sew for
herself at present, as most women at
service are obliged to do, and as she
had no inclination to walk about the
streets or pay visits, she was at leisure
not only to read and study, but to
help others. Twice a week, in the
evening, she had an audience of half
a dozen decent women, who brought
their work, and to whom she read
and talked, and also taught them to
do their household sewing and house-
work with greater ease and perfection.
11 any one asks how a girl brought

eper '8 Stpry.
up in luxui~y from her childhood had
a correct knowledge of these things,
the answer is, that Kate Pierrepont
had lived for some years after her
mother's death with a maternal aunt,
who had her hobbies, and who taught
her young niece to know by experi-
ence how to cook and sew, and also
how to use her common-sense intelli-
gently. Old Judith had to thank
Kate for more than one warm gar-
ment; and the old woman had repaid
her with many a welcome service,
which would spare those pretty hands
from rough labor.
One day Mrs. Austin, who had long
given up attempts at evening enter-
tainments, owing to repeated disap-
pointments and failures, bethought
her, that, with such a treasure in the
kitchen, the hour had come for
another effort. So she sprang up
from her piano, at which the idea had
seized her, and ~vent into the kitchen.
It was late in November, and the
days were short. The kitchen was
warm and. comfortable, and exquisite-
ly neat. By the window, perched on
the sill, was the presiding genius,
bending over a book, economizing the
fading light.
Mrs. Austin stood still a moment,
looking curiously at the pretty picture.
When at last she spoke, Kate was so
absorbed in her book that she started
at the sudden sound, axid spring
hastily down from the window-seat.
"What are you so interested in.
Kate?~' said Mrs. Austin.
"A queer old book I found here in
a book-stall, 'The Memorial of Ma-
dame de Cr~qui.' Did you want me
for any thing, Mrs Austin?"
"It looks attractive," continued
Mrs. Austin, looking over the book.
"Would you like to see it?"
"'When you have finished, yes.
0 Kate I I came to consult you

The IIousek~
about giving a tea-party. I want to
invite the iiembers of the Book Club.
Coul'l we manage it, do you think?
there arc only ten ladies."
"Certainly we could manage it.
What kind of a tea do you want to
give?"
"I don't know exactly: they al-
ways have lots of sweetmeats here,
and oysters and jellies; hut all that
is frightful trouble, and, besides, I
have very fe~v s~veetn~eats this year.
What would you do?"
"Why don't ~ou have an oyster-
supper, and not try to have cakes and
jellies? They arc only in the way;
thiorgli I will be glad to make wkat-
ever you wish."
~~Irow - no cake nt all?"
"I iveuld have tea and coffee and
oysters, wi'h hot rolls and cheese i~d
cracked. s. ~nd nothing else."
"It v mId save a great deal o
trouble."
"Yes. ~ think a tea with a char-
acter to i~ is dwuys pleasanter; ihere
is a want oi l'a~Luony between straw-
berry sweetm'ats and stewed oys-
ters."
"Let us hav~ it that way, then.
It is less cxpen3l ~e, at any rate; and
I have no money to spare," concluded
Mrs. Austin, laugl'ir~g~. This was
Monday; and on the following Thurs-
day the "tea-fight" wmld take place.
And Mrs. Austin felt in her heart that
it was a great relief to hwe no cake
or jelly on her mind. Yn fact, she
took very little thought ~bont the
material part of her entertainment,
assured as she was of Kate entire
competency. Ga Thursday afteracon,
when her arrangements were com-
pleted in the parlor, the poitiTolios
opened and placed on their staLde,
the places for the lights arranged, ai'd
* the final re-adjustment of the prett~'
things in the parlor completed, sh'~

~eper's Story.                 89
could go and lie down for a while,
and dress at her leisure, sure that the
table would do her credit, and every
thing on it would be good to eat;
which is a state of blessedness rarely
known by a country housekeeper an
hour before a tea-party.
About six o'clock she came down,
to find the tea-table charming, in its
arrangement of blue and gold china,
silver, and snowy napkins, reflected
in the shining table. Every thing
was ready; and she took it all in with
a sigh of enjoyment, enhanced by the
remembrance of the confusion and
weariness preceding by-gone tea-par-
ties, - the cleaning of knives, and
scrubbing up of leaden-looking silver;
the washing of china that had been
put away half clean, and the dreadful
anticipation of heavy biscuit and
muddy coffee. She peeped into the
kitchen. Kate was pouring the boil-
ing water on the coffee in the biggin,
and on the boiler stood pans of snow-
white, delicate-looking biscuit, almost
ready for the oven.
Kate was dressed in a fresh calico,
with a little frilled white apron, and
a black cravat on her white collar.
Over all this was tied a wide check
apron, and her beautiful hair was, as
usual, neatly and closely braided.
Judith's Fttle granddaughter was
ready to open the door for the ex-
pected guests, wino came in twos and
threes; and by six ~"ciock were all as-
sembled in the diui~-"oom, around
the inviting-looking taMe. The sec-
retary of the club - for N~r. Asi&amp;ia
made convedent pretence of businen',
which called him away at such mee*
ings - took the foot of the table
She was the oldest member, a house
keeper of credit and renown, before
whose keen glance Mrs. Austin even
mw c~uake4 a little, but before which
iL b~-~one attempts she had inward-


90                  The Housek~
ly groaned with horror. There was
nothing now to find fault with; ex-
cept, perhaps, with the innovation on
the custom of crowding the table
with cake and sweetmeats, and little
glass saucers to hold them. Every
thing was delicious, coffee, rolls,
and oysters and Kate's services
were perfection, quiet and silent.
It may easily be imagined, that
this anomaly in the kitchen regions
was the chief theme of discourse that
enlivened the evening; varied by
talk on mlsic, books, and pictures,
but returning steadily to the primary
idea, like a well-constructed piece of
music.
V.
One grows ambitious with success;
and Mrs. Austin's triumphant ac-
count of the evening moved Mr. Aus-
tin to wonder, in the recesses of his
heart, ~vhether a dinner to the judges,
who would hold court shortly in Bide-
ford, might be dreamed of.
Some of them were men who lived
off the cream and honey of the land,
and dined su~ptuously every day. It
was clear that too vaulting an ambi-
tion would overlap itself; but, again,
a very plain dinner must be a very
perfect one.
He consulted Mrs. Austin, who sat
tranquilly in the cosey parlor, enjoying
her book. He had first looked for
her in the kitchen, where Kate was
concocting some delicate dessert for
to-morrow's dinner.
"Could not we manage it with this
paragon of yours? We may as well
use her while we have her, for there
is some hocus-pocus about it all; one
might say of her, as they say of con-
sumptives, the spring flowers will not
find her here."
Mrs. Austin looked dismayed at
the idea, and it required some effort to

~eper'8 Story.
bring her resolution up to the point
of actually undertaking the dinner
hut the point was at last reached.
Kate, on being consulted next day,
entered into the scheme ~vith a readi-
ness and wealth of resource that fully
established Mrs. Austin's courage.
The dinner was arranged to be, first,
soup; second, roast turkey and ham,
hominy, cakes, fricasseed potatoes,
tomatoes and cranberries; third,
mince-pies and custard; fourth, frnit
and nuts; fifth, coffee. And little
Judith was to help.
Mrs. Austin told her husband, in
the evening, that he might ask his
guests; but he must promise to look
immovable, no matter what contre-
temps occurred. The dinner was to
be on the next Thursday.
VI.
As Judge Lorton and a companion
walked up the street, under the arch
of leafless trees, with their beautifully
interlacing branches, looking as if
they were carved against the glitter-
ing sky, they talked a little about
country dinners; and told more than
one absurd story of melancholy fail-
ures and wretched hostesses. It was
rather hard on them. The hotel at
Bideford was celebrated for its good
dinners; but it was the custom to ac-
cept the hospitalities of the various
towns, and there was no escape.
"If they would give us a good
roast and potatoes, I would he thank-
ful; but would-he entries, and burned-
up oysters, and distracted hostesses,
play the devil v;itla any dinner."
"Austin is a sensible fellow; he
won't have any such nonsense."
"Yes; but his wife is a New-York
girl, Mr. Ledyard's daughter. They
lived in great style. She will be sure
to give us a caricature of her father's
celebrated ~

The flowek~
"Well, we can go to the hotel
after~vards."
"Too late, my dear sir. This must
line Austin's house; he said there was
a pine grove across the road."
A bright-looking young girl, with a
white apron on, opened the door; and
Judge Lorton and his friend found
their brother lawyers assembled in
the drawing-room, with its crimson
hangings, and bright wood fire crack-
ing on the hearth. Mrs. Austin 'vas
talking merrily, dressed in her pret-
tiest toilette, and looking quite unlike
the heated, weary, anxious women,
of whom Judge Lorton hind been
talking. Presently young Judith
aplicared at the door, and said, in a
sInill treble, -
"Dinner is ready, my lady."
Old Judith persisted in calling
Mrs. Austin " my lady; ~ and young
Judith, who looked up to the grand-
mother as an oracle, persisted in do-
ing the sanac.
"Do you observe my dignity?" said
Mrs. Austin, taking the arm of the
gentleman who had come in with
Judge Lorton. "Little Judith would
not deprive me of that title for the
world." But, as she spoke, they I
stepped across the threshold of the
dining-room, and she felt her compan-
ion start violently. She looked at him
amazed, land then around the room:
there was nothing there but the pret- ~
tily-arranged dining-table, and Kate, t
standing behind her chair, with a lit- ~
tle salver in her hand. To besure, i:
slm~ was wonderfully pretty, and had ~
a color like a rose; but Judge Pierre- a
pont was not tlae man to start at the s~
sight of a pretty girl. All these a
thoughts went headlong through ti
Mrs. Austin's mind, as she took her d
seat, and gave a quick, comprehdn- tl
sive g~anee at the table. Judge n
Pierrepomat was still staring at Kate,

eper's Story.                   91
with an amazed, amused expression,
as well he might. She was his
niece and ward, of whose general
welfare he had lately heard through
her aunt. Her whereabouts it
seemed that he had too readily taken
for granted; and this proof that she
had carried out her mad scheme tri-
umphantly filled him with a feeling
in which indignation at heing thus
outwitted, and admiration of her
pluck, were equally mingled.
Mrs. Austin happily forgot her
momentary perplexity in her duties
as hostess; and Kate, after the first
flush at the entirely unexpected sight
of her uncle, rose to the situation.
Here was a magnificent, unhoped-
for opportunity to prove her capacity
under the eye of Uncle Roger; he
need not take her word for it, he
could see for himself. So she fixed
her mind upon her work, as she had
good reason to do, being obliged to
change from cook to waiter at a
moment's notice.
The soup was delicious, clear, port-
wine color, delicately flavored and
not; and as the hungry lawyers ate,
and took courage, she slipped out and
put the turkey in its great dish, with
an admiring look at its shining gold-
mn-brown surface, and the compact
ray in which it held its arms and
egs. Then she covered it with a
lish-cover, and went in again. Lit-
le Judith removed the tureen and
dates, and the dinner was brouglat
a with all possible ease and quiet.
frs. Austin smiled mischievously
t the increasing satisfaction which
pread over the faces of her guests,
s the conviction grew upon them
inat they were going to have a good
inner, after all. She knew well that
aeir experience was often sufficiently
melanclaoly.
As Kate moved to and fro, always


f         92                 The
watchful, always quiet, apparently
absorbed in her business, and doing
it well and thoroughly, she wns the
ideal of a waiter, besides a great
deal. of supererogatory excellence in
the way of beauty and grace.
The dessert stood ready on a side-
table; and the fruit, a gracefully-
arranged dish of golden oranges and
i~rimson apples, stood all through
dinner, as the central ornament.
She placed the delicate custards
and mince-pie, hot with fire and
spice, on the table; and when they
had been duly discussed and ap-
proved, and the plates changed, the
fruit was set before Mrs. Austin,
nuts and crackers in their places,
and Kate quietly left the room.
There was a little shifting of chairs;
people began a desultory cracking of
nuts and peeling of oranges; - the
conversation grew more informal.
The more solid duties of dining ~ver'~
concluded, and the more graceful
part of dinner began.
Old Mr. Merchant was saying,
"Where did you find your cook, Mrs.
Austin? she dresses a turkey better
than Delmonico; and that mince-pie
was a masterpiece. I suppose you
would not forgive anybody who
tempted her away.~~
Then Judge Pierrepont's voice
broke in. "Mrs. Austin, you are the
most fortunate of modern women in
your servants. Your cook is a para-
gon. And what must we say of your
waiter?"
"That she is a beauty," said young
Jenkins impetuously,-and then
blushed violently, and drank, an
immense tumbler of water.
"What Would you say if I told
you that the paragon and the
you, Mrs. Austin," answered Judge
beauty were one and the same?"
"We would have to believe

eeper's Story.
Pierrepont politely; "but you try
our powers to the cracking point."
"It is indeed true, Judge Pierre-
pont. She is my venture," said Mr.
Austin laughingly, from his end of
the table. "My wife failed several
times in getting good servants, so I
stepped in to the rescue; and you see
the result: most of these domestic
troubles arise from want of masculine
judgment."
"John, I will raise the shadow of
'big ~argret,~ - but really," - and
Mrs. Austin turned her laughing face
from her husband, -" really, there
must be some mystery about this
girl of ours. She is a lady, and a
cultivated, charming woman, and a
first-rate cook and servant generally.
Mr. Austin says he expects her to
disappear at any time, like a friendly
brownie of a superior type."
"Does she do all your work?"
asked Judge Pierrepont. "I do not
ask from impertinent curiosity [
will explain presently why I ~vish
to know."
"Yes, every thing; except the
light dusting that I do."
"Has she lived in the kitchen? or
has her servitude been of the patri-
archal description? Excuse me once
more for asking such apparently
impertinent questions. I have an
object."
"She has kept herself resolutely,
provokingly, 'in her place,' as they
call it. She does every thing, and
a hundred times more than any ser-
vant I ever had; and yet she has
time for herself, and to do many ser-
vices for other people. I would be
glad to have such a woman for my
friend, -but why do you ask, Judge
~ierreponti~
He looked down thoughtfully for
a moment, and everybody looked ex-
pectant.

The ifouseke
"I ask, my dear madam, because
that young woman is my niece and
ward; and her present position is
owing to myself.~~
"Let us go into the parlor, ex-
claimed Mrs. Austin, rising. "Aiid
can you tell me about her? I do so
~vant to hear; and but she will
leave me. Oh, how miserable 1"
"I suppose she will," answered
the judge, as they entered the parlor
once more. And he proceeded to give
a little outline of his promise to his
niece, aiid her acceptance of it.
"May I send for ~ asked
Mrs. Austin.
"If you will be so kind."
She ~vent herself, and ran into the
kitchen to find her treasure. Kate
was leaning against the window,
looking out into her favorite pines.
There was a peculiar light in her
eyes, as she turned; she knew in a
moment that her uncle had spoken,
and she seized Mrs. Austin's out-
stretched hand, and they both laughed
heartily. "Come in, dear Kate. I
knew it was too good to last. Oh,
dear I and why hadn't I the sense and
courage to mafre you come and spend
all your evenings with me?~~
"It would not have been a fair
trial; but really, fortune was kind to
send Uncle Roger here just at my
grand climax."
The two pretty women entered the
parlor together, one in her neat
working-dress, the other bright in her
dinner toilette.
Judge Pierrepont rose to meet his
niece, and embraced her more cor-
dially than he had ever done before.
He liked pluck, and in the excite-
ment of the moment, that feeling
overshadowed the annoyance that
had a place in his heart; and, besides,
he had fairly challenged her to the
triaL

eper'8 Story.                  93
Miss Kate blushed a little, as hei
uncle presented her to the company
as his niece, and was conscious of a
certain wrath at his betrayal of her;
at which, in truth, he somewhat won-
dered himself.
There is. no catastrophe to our
story, and so it must stop. Uncle
Roger was completely beaten, and lie
was man enough to accept hi~ defeat
gracefully.
Kate had chatted but a few min-
utes with her old friends and new,
when she rose with a slight start,
saying, -
"There! I had almost forgotten
my coffee!"
There was a ludicrous mixture of
impulses in the minds of the com-
pany.
~ by no means I" excJaimed
old Mr. NToyes. And then he felt so
keenly the propriety of the coffee,
that his polite speech made him feel
ashamed; and the like trace of
thoughts, whether uttered or not, was
in every mind in the room. Kate,
however, with that natural directness
of hers, - the only soul there who felt
no double motive, -- had already put
forth her hand to leave the parlor,
when little Judith appeared at the
door, bearing a tray, arranged very
neatly, which she placed oaths table
near Mrs. Austin, with a glance of
swelling pride at Kate, whose aston..
ished face was the one thing desired
to complete the little creature's satls-
faction.
"Shure, ma'am, it's busy ye were;
an' I tho't best to send it in mesel';"
and with a little courtesy, inherited
from old Judith, she stood firm, to
Kate's delight.
The coffee was delicious. Kate
could not have done better herself.
And when the little maiden had gone,
she said,-


9A~

Tke Housekeeper's Story.

"Dear Mrs. Austin, Judith is my Miss Pierrepont vanished once more
legacy to you. She is trained to hcr into the kitchen; out of which, how-
work, and with a little help she will ever, she disappeared ncxt day.
do as well as a grown woman: you As for that Joseph Lawson, since
see her first work was successful; neither Uncle Roger nor Kate ever
but you must excuse me now, as I mentioned him again, we don't know
must set bread for to-morrow." So anything about him.
TEN UPRISE! PlANt
Boinotbing Entiroly Now, aI11 of Groat Iniportanco to tbo Musical Vorl~.
By peculiar construction, for which letters patent have been granted to GEG. H.
DAVIS, under date of Oct. 27th, 1873, we are prepared to furnish an Upright Piano
that WILL stand in tune as iveli as any Square or Grand Piano made, thereby over-
coming the great objection to theUpright Piano, whichhas been feitand acknowledged
by all makers and dcaiers in the world. This patented linproveiflent is no experi-
ment. It is not the work of a day or a year, but is the result of ,nany years of
careful examination and study, and the result is beyond question. It is secured by
the peculiar combInation of the sounding-board and the arrangement of the bridge
upon the same, viz.: our patented iron frame Is so entirely different from all others,
and so connected and bolted to the wooden frame of the Piano (one feature tif its
great strength), that it leaves the sounding-board with the bridge and bearing
detached, and entirely separate froma the Iron Frame, so that the objection to the
metallic or iron tone is removed. We have also produced another feature of greqe
value, viz.: the quantity, with the peculiar singing quality of tone, surpassing, as it
does, any other Upright or ~quare Grand Piano, and fully equal to a Paior tirand.
The above facts will be acknowledged by all who will call and examine the instro-
Piano Fortes, and having fully tested the improvement referred to, we arc prepared
meats. With an experience of between thirty and &amp;rty years in tile manufacture of
to furnish Upright Pianos that ivill meet the want so long felt, and at prices that
cannot fail to be satisfactory. We extend a most cordial Invitation to all lovers of
music, and all interested, to call and see, hear, and examine the great improvement
for themselves.
Our prices will be found within the reach of all who wish a first-class Instrument.
We manufacture our usual variety of Grand and Square Pianos, for which testimo-
nials have been received from the
HIGHEST AUTHORiTIES IN THE WORLD I
FRANZ LISZT, the First Pianist lathe world; JOHANN STRAUSS, tile Eminent
Composer; M. PAULUS, Leader of the French Band; H. SARO, Royal Prussian
Musical Director; FRANZ BENDEL, Pianist at the World's Peace
Jubilee; FRANZ ABT, Mine. PESCIIKA-LEUTNER,
and hosts of others.
Send for Tllustrated Catalogae, free, with all the testimony.
More than 17,000 Pianos manufactured I Pianos used in leading Conservatories
in the United States and Public Schools of Boston. Every instrument warranted
for Five years. Second-hand pianos taken in exchange.
BALLET, DAVIS &amp; Co.
272 Washington Street, Boston.


  
             
         
       
   
