
    ----CITATION----
        Walker, D. (Demosthenes). Stanley, or, Playing for Amusement and Betting to Count the Game .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8172
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Stanley, or, Playing for amusement and betting to count the game 
            
               -TI

STANLEY.

K


STANLEY;
OR,
PLAYING FOR.AMUSEMENT,

AND

1L 6

K ~
AA)~   A I

I
I
/       At
A ~    /
(/       ~

I~
0~ ~
/

BETTING TO COUNT THE GAME.

6) 4~-'~           4      '~  ',i

~A ( A ~ j A4

If

A       ~     'I'
A   A

4

6' ~     A A
'A
I
(~g

A / ~

dIA

it

/

6~     /       /
u                 4/~A1
F~    I
I

Al   A

BY
IQ. WALKER.

NASHVILLE, TENN.:
PRINTED FOR THlE AUTHOR BY JT. B. M'FERRIN, Aco'T.
1860.

'1~            */
I,
~N ~ /Ut:

in t~ ~

I


Ehter~d, acc~rdiflg to act of Congress, in the year 1860, by
D. WALKER,
in the office of the Clerk of the District Court for the Middle
District of Tennessee.

TO THfl
lION. JACOB S. YE~I~G~}j~;
IT HAVING BEEN SUGGESTED TO TIlE AUTHOR BY HIS
ABLE ChARGE TO TIlE GRAND JURY ON A CER-
TAIN OCCASION, WHILST PRESIDING AS JUDGE
OP THE THIRD JUDICIAL DISTRICT OP
MISSISSIPPI.

STEREOTY1~ED AND rRTNTED AT THE
5OUTHE~N METHODIST PUBLISHING HOUSE, NASHVILLE, TENN,


9

PREFACE.
THE circumstances under which this book
t~k.                                                                          the public, are peculiarly embarrassing. It cc
the author's pen, with all its imperfections 1
the hand that might and would have revised
less upon a heart which, when animated by
every noble and manly impulse.
But it was not so much the object of the A
moniou~ g:nteno:s, as to present to the yo
the public a volume of beautifully rounded
in so bold and convincing
save them fr(
dency. This was his whole end and aim: wr
he has accomplished his purpose, the voice
must decide.
The author was born and raised in the Souti
*           breezes now whisper softly over his mortal r
who, knew him, knew his ,devotion to his coi
he would have shed his last drop of blood i:
*          But whilst he saw her rising in wealth a
in wisdom and refinement, he saw at the same
over her lovely plains and fertile valleys a v:
A

is presented to
mes rough from
ipon its head;
it, lies power-
life, beat with
athor to give to
~riods and har-
ux~g the conse-
g a manner as
)m its evil ten..
~h what success
of the public
~, and Southern
~mamns. Those
mntry, and that
a her defence.
nd importance,
time spreading
ice which, like
(vii)


'I,

---i

the trail of the serpent, was defacing her moral beauty, and
crushing her fairest and loveliest flowers-intellect, genius,
and virtue too often becoming the slave of its fascinating and
dea!lly influence; and to arrest this demoralizing evil,~ he
bent the best energies of his pen.
lit is published for a daughter's benefit, to ~rhom, with a
father's blessing, it was given a few hours before his death.
And here it will not be improper, to express our most grateful
acknowledgments to the Hon. J. J. B. White, of Yazoo
County, to whose kind encouragement, liberality, and timely
exertion, we are indebted for its publication. May he meet
the reward which should ever follow a generous, noble
action.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT,
AND
CHAPTIF~R I.
The opening lines should fully clear the author's way,
To bring his subject into view without delay.
BOILEAU.
THE large telling carriage of Col. Clarkson, containing
himself and family, with the usual retinue of servants, etc.,
was moving slowly along the bank of the Mississippi River,
near what is called the "Bend," in the State of Mississippi,
early in autumn, when "little Agnes," as she was called, a
girl of some twelve or thirteen summers, who had for some
time been leaning her head pensively out of the carriage
window, started up and exclaimed:
"Oh, Ma! See that old man with his long white hair !"
"My !" exclaimed Mrs. Clarkson, "Do look, husband !"
He did look, and beheld by far the most remarkable per-
sonage he had ever seen~ An old man, above the 'r~te4ium
height, with strongly marked features, a broad ~he~thut not
deep; a square, high forehead; high cheek b6nei~., firni1y~set
lips, hair as white as cotton, and falling down his back nearly
to his waist; a little bent in figure, from habit rather than
from infirmity; his dress neat and becoming age and gravity;
(ix)'

PREFACE.


i~fl
l1~l
~ll

10          PLAYING FOR      MUSE MENT.
his hands crossed behind him; w~dking up and down the river
bank with firm and measured st ~p, casting now and then a
Aance toward the stream, as if expecting to see some
~ cherished ~object emerge from tl~ e muddy and angry waters.
fhe whiteness of his long locks, and the deep lines in his
face, gave him the appearance of extreme age; but the firm-
ness of his step an~ a certain air of resolution about him,
satisfied the observer that time alone had not so frosted his
hair, nor made the lines in his face. There was an expres-
sion of melancholy, a majesty of grief about the stern, vener-
able old man, that awed one to silence and respect. Bob, the
carriage-driver, upon seeing him, dropped the reins, and gazed
as if struck by a spell. All looked in silence until a tu:cn in
the road hid the sad, solemn figure from their view, when
they sighed, turned and looked each other inquiringly in the
face, as much a~ to say, "What can it mean? Who can it
be ?" Thus impressed and wondering, they soon drove up
to Col. Clarkson's plantation, the end and aim of their
journey. The Colonel had been there frequently before, but
always by water, and remained but a few days at a time.
This was the first visit his family had made to the place. By
agreement with several of the proprietors of neighboring plan-
tations, whose families determine4 to spend the fall and a
portion of the ensuing winter on their places, Col. Clarkson's
family determined upon the same thing, and had gone up for
that purpose.
The family residence, if a rough weather-boarded house,
with board roof, unplanned floors, a wide passage, and long
gallery, and some unfinished and unfurnished rooms, perched
upon small cypress pillars, could be called a residence, was
pleasantly situated at a convenient' distance from the river,
and distinguishable from the two long rows of whitewashed
negro cabins, similarly perched upon cypress pillars, and
shaded by double rows of ?China trees, by its size, being some-

11

thing larger, and hence called by the ~egroes the "big hon~e,"
a name common among negroes for the family residence. The
prospect for comfort was unpromising enough; but as there
were two or three plain carpenters among the negroes on the
plantation, and the Colonel had recently~ purchased in New
Orleans, the great negro mart for the Southwest, several
"hands," and ordered them shipped to the plantation to aid
in picking out the cotton, thus enabling the overseer to spare
the carpenters from the field, plans were soon made for en-
larging and improving the premises, so as to make them not
only inhabitable, but every way convenient and comfortable.
Before leaving his residence in Bluff City, the Colonel had
secured the services of a good house carpenter to superintend
the improvements on his place, and found him there waiting.
Material also had been supplied, and we may here remark
that all that willing hands and strong arms could do, and
good taste and an eye to substantial comfort suggest, and
wealth command, to relieve the forbidding aspect, was soon
done and furnished.
In the evening, Mr. Blake, the overseer, a gentleman some-
thing above his class in education and general information,
called to see the family, and give an account to Clarkson of
affairs on the plantation. He was inquired of in re~tion
to the gray-haired old man whQse appearance had so im-
pressed them in the afternoon.
"All that is known of him," he said, "is, that the first
settlers found him here some thirty years ago, when this
entire region was a forest of cane and tangled undergrowth,
except his little clearing. He looked much then as now,
save that his hair was not perhaps quite so white* his
manners and habits were the same, walking up and down 1~he-
river bank, in the bent manner you saw him this afternoon,
at all seasons, and sometimes in all sorts of weather. He'
has two old negroes, a man and Woman. They are as silent

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.


1~IJr

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

and uniform in their habits as he. They are all thought to
be deaf and dumb, as no one ever heard either of them
speak; nor has the old man ever been known, by look or
gesture, to recognize the presence of any one. Wood-
choppers and other earlier settlers used to make advances to
him-ask him for shelter, water, a meal, direction, or sunie-
thing of the kind, but received no reply from him of any
sort, either in word or manner. His air of melancholy and
dignity repels and rebukes all impertinent inquiry and
curiosity; and his evident desire to be alone, unknowing and
unknown, and the belief that he is nursing some great grief,
saves him from interruption by the white population, and a
feeling of superstition secures him from all disturbance from
the blacks. Who he is, when he came here, where he came
from, and why he deports himself thus, no one knows; and
he either cannot o~ does not care to tell. A thousand sur-
mises are of course mad as to the cause of his singular
deportment; but bcyon what I have said, nothing is
definitely known, save th t he is called the 'hERMIT.'"
"Have you ever visited his house ?"
"Often."
"And you think he and all are deaf?"
"t do not think so m ~self. That is the general belief;
however. I can hardly g ye a reason why I do not think so,
unless it be the air of intelligence about him, and the speak~
'ing appearance of every thing about the house. I think
you will agree with me, should you ever visit him."
"' Do you think he would take it unkindly, were I to visit
him?"
"I do not; though he will not notice you in any way, and
act exactly as if you' were not there."
"Strange being, certainly I"
"Will he let me go ?" asked Agnes, a deeply interested
listener to all that had been said.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

13

"0, yes," said Mr. Blake; "my children go there occa-
sionally."
For several days Mr. and Mrs. Clarkson were so absorbed
in the mysteries of building, improving, repairing, and clean-
ing up, about the house and grounds, as to lose all thought of
the Hermit. Not so, however, with Agnes. He moved
strangely through her dreams during the night, and was the
first in her thoughts in the morning. As soon as breakfast
was over, she took her little maid and started in search of
him. There he was, just as upon the day previous, with his
hands behind him, walking up and down the river. She
seemed singularly fascinated. As she made the turn in the
road, she started, upon seeing him, like a timid fawn, with
the exclamation, "There !" in a suppressed whisper. She
stood gazing at him for a moment; then advanced a few steps,
stopped and gazed, with her finger to her mouth, and eyes
opened wide; started forward again, and so continued, until
within a short distance of the path worn by him in his
promenade, at no time taking her eyes from him. Her
motions were involuntary, guided as by a charm, her head
a little b~nt to one side, and she touched the ground lightly,
ready, like the fawn, to bound away at the least alarm, her
eyes following him up and down, unconsciously receding as
he approached, and advancing as he receded, as if by some
physical force. For some time he was ignort~nt of her pre-
sence; but she finally crossed his path, and was standing
between him and the river; and, raising his eyes to look, as
was his habit, over the stream, he encountered her fixed,
charmed gaze; and a vision of loveliness, seraphic beauty
such as is rarely seen in this rugged world, thrilled him' like
an electric shock. Agnes was lovely beyond the power of
pen .to write. It was not merely the exquisitely chiselled form,
lithe and perfect in all its parts, the clear white skin, softly~
pencilled Grecian profile, dark brown hair, flowing in light

12


14      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                            PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     15

wavy curls upon shoulders white and pellucid as alabaster,
and splendid blazing hazel eye, but the soul that shone
through, giving life, animation, and vocality to all. It was
a vision such as one sees in, dreams, sometime~ in pictures,
but rarely in real life. Such a being is at rare intervals lent
to earth by a kind Providence, to show how far his handi-
work exceeds in perfection the utmost stretch of genius. It
lasted but a moment; for as soon as she recovered from the
surprise the consciousness of being observed occasioned, she
bounded off like an t~ntelope, reached the main road, where
her timid maid awaited her, and, without a word, walked
briskly home. Her visits were repeated daily; and although
the Hermit seemed unaware of her presence, he was not;
for when by any chance she failed to take her stand beside
his path, his glances were toward th~ turn in the road, rather
than the river. Her interest in hini increased, and by de-
grees she grew less shy, more confiding, and would involun-
tarily follow a few steps, as he passed to and fro. One
morning he was more melancholy than usual-appeared
depressed in spirits-and she drew closer to him, walked
near him, looking ~ristfully into his face. As she looked, a
big tear gathered in the eye of the stern, hard old man,
rounded, trembled upon the lid, rolled slowly down the wrinkled
face, and dropped in the dust. Little Agnes could stand it
no longer, and sprang up, seized the old man around the
neck, buried h ~r face in his bosom, and wept as if her heart
would run to tea~s. He folded her close to his bosom, and said:
"What is the matter, my angel child ?" The first wom~ds
he had spoken for thirty years.
"0, you are so sad !" And she nestled closer to him.
"Do you indeed care for the sorrows of an old man, a
waif broken an cast away by cruel fortune? an aged hem~
lock, so old and~ repulsive that the birds will not build nor
perch upon it ?" And the tears rained from his eyes; the

J

first he had shed since boyhood~ He soon recovered, and,
suppressing his emotion, put her gently down, took her hand,
and led her along in his walk. From that time, a perfect
understanding existed between them, and each day she
placed herself beside him, her hand in his, or holding his
with both hers, promenaded up and down with him until her
little feet would grow weary, neither speaking a word. For
her sake he would often change his walk, until it became a
desultory ramble about the river bank and the woods near,
o'atherino' at tii~ies wild fruit and berries. By deo'rees his
0                                     0
passion took an entirely new direction; he gave up his old
beaten path, and followed and watched little Agnes like some
guardian spirit.
It was nut long before this simple and beautiful attachment
attracted the attention of the ever-careful and fond parents;
but knowing it to be safe and innocent, from what they could
see and learn of his character, and seeing that it gave pleasure
to the solitary old man as well as to their dearly loved and
willingly obedient child, it was given full scope. Agnes's
chamber, as the house progressed toward completion, was at
the northern end of the building, near which ran the road
that lcd back into the swamp; and often at night, when the
household were all wrapped in sleep, the measured tramp of
the hermit might be heard, as he walked to and fro near her
window, like some faithful sentinel keeping watch at his post.
She had, of course, explained to her parents how the good.
understanding between herself and the hermit had begun and
progressed, and received their open permission to cultivate
his friendship, and do what her young, truthful heart might
prompt, to win him from care and thought.
To some it may appear strange how such a touchingly
beautiful attachment could exist between so old and stern a
man, and such a soft, trusting, lovely child. It was from a
peculiar refinement of sentiment and spirit, an exquisite polish


16          PLAYING   FOR AMUSEMENT.
and delicacy of soul common to both. This polish and refine-
ment of spirit is not unfrequently met with in natures out-
wardly coarse and rugged, and, like diamonds, shows alit the
brighter for the coarse setting. It is a spark of the divinity;
the same that Brabantio's "fair daughter" saw in the Moor,
and made her "incur the general mock," in shunning the
"curled darlings of the nation" and runto his "sooty bosom;"
and not "spells and medicines bought of mountebanks," as
her incredulous father thought. Agnes was fond of other
children, loved to entertain them, and they were fond of her,
but she never seemed to be a part of them. She liked their
childish sports and pastimes, but preferred to look rather
than partake in them; they were not an obj ect with her, and
never recalled after they had passed. She never thought of
herself: though beautiful, and always tastily dressed, she
seemed not to know or to bestow a thought upon it. She
would sit and watch the far-off clouds break and form them-
selves into a thousand fantastic shapes; count the stars as
they came out one by one as twilight deepened, and when
surprised in one of these moods, and asked, she could not ex-
plain or give expression to the sentiment of the grand and
infinite that filled her soul; but she could feel it; its impress
was, there. In the Hermit, without understanding how, she
found a spirit kindred to hers. To be sure, he did not sit and
gaze in wonder at the creamy clouds that gathered and
banked themselves up ~nountain-like in the summer heavens,
nor watch the large sand-hill crane as, at the approacl:i of
spring, it stretched its long beak northward, and winged its
way towards the pole, calling by its musical cruke its feathered
mates; and, when lost in the far-distant blue, she did not see
him sit down and wonder when the journey would end and
why it made it; and passing thence, wonder why it was made
at all? But while she did not see this, she saw him buried
in thought, and whether like the crane it was lost in the way-

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                 17.~
off blue, or was far up beyond the stars, or was down, d o~vn,
deep beneath the turbid wave, holding communion with some
one with wet locks lying there, she could not tell; but as she
looked into his sad face, and he all indifferent to the world
around, she was lost, as when watching the flight of the crane,
counting the stars, or measuring the great infinity beyond.
Tie too found in the sweet child that stared in his face and
shared his solitude, a thoughtful spirit like his own, and a
common feeling and sympathy wove a tie strong as life be~
tween them.

4


1~
PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

S

CHAPTEII IT.
"The tankard foams, and the strong table groans
Beneath the smoking sirloin stretched immense
From side to side, in which, with desperate knife,
They deep incisions make."
THE portion of country in which Col. Clarkson's plantation
was situated, was set tied by large, wealthy planters, most; of
whom, as before stated, were spending the fidi there with
their families, thus forming good society, both tale and
female. House room, such as it wa~, was ample upon each
plantation. Some were furnished wi~h fine buildings, and all
were improving and rendering their ~em porary homes at least
comfortable. Horses and carriages ~were abundant, the fall
dry, and th~ roads fine. On each pleasant day, gay com-
panies of ladies and~children were een in 4~arriages, riding
from one plantation to another, att~ded by gentlemen on
horseback. Their hospitality, for the most part, was free and
open, rather than refined ; their life rough, and far from con-
ducing to intellectual or moral progress. Hunting, fishing,
riding over their plantations, and looking at their crops, con-
stituted the out-door exercise of the gentlemen; cards and
other games formed the in-door pastimes. Whiskey and
brandy bottles might be seen alongside of the water jar or
bucket at one end of the gallery-all Southern residences
have galleries-and cigars, pipes, and tobacco, with a servant
ready to run for a coal of fire, or a match always on hand.
And it was astonishing what an amount of mean whiskey and

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

19

tobacco were destroyed that fall at Hermit's Bend. Col.
Clarkson, having finished his improvements about the first of
October, celebrated it by a large dining party, to which all
his neighbors on both the Mississippi and Arkansas sides
were invited. Accomplished and elegant women, intelligent
and beautiful girls, and gentlemen of the "old regim p," were
not wantin~ at this entertainment; for no country ct~n bdast
of more beauty or chivalry than the South. But there were
others at this feast equally well educated, men of weith and
position, but whose generous, noble characters had become
so vitiated by excess and indulgence, that the sparkle of the
wine cup, the rattle of the dice box, and the excitement of
the card table, were preferred even to the society of their
lovely wives and daughters; and none of them were either
drunkards or gamblers. They would have been horrified to
have been even suspected of such a thing; would not asso-
ciate with one who was suspected. They claimed to drink as
a matter of good cheer, and play for amusement, and bet only
to count the game.
* After the cloth had been removed, and the ladies and
younger gentlemen withdrawn to the parlors to listen to good
music, or foot it in the dance, tobacco, strong liquors, and
cards were called, and the husbands and fathers commenced
a game of Poker, a fashionable, gentlemanly sort of betting
game down South. They commenced the game not as yearning,
but for amusement! They bet, not to win money, but to
count the game! It was only five dollars "anti!" and what
was that to men of thousands? They played; wives and
daughters inquired from time to time "if it was not time to
go ?" "Not yet." They played on. The music ceased, and
the occasional rumble of carriage-wheels told that the lady
guests, one after another, were leaving for home; but the
playing continued. They were left alone; evening came;


20          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
lights were brought in, and the game continued. f Nine
o'clock came: ten; eleven; twelvee! the game continued;
still flit, flit, flit, went the cards; chink, chink, chink, went
the money; gluck, gluck, gluck, went the bottle. "I'll go
ten better;" "I'll see you ten, and go fifty better;" "I'll see
your fifty, and go a hundred ;" "I'll call you;" "What do
you do it on ?" "Aces and- ;" "Good." The money is
taken down, and the same thing repeated until the closing
hours of night. No exercise of the intellect, no generous
moral sentiment inspired; only the meanest of man's instincts
called into action; his cupidity, his desire for his neighbor's
goods. As the plantation bell rung for the negroes to~ turn
out, the players reeled to their rooms; not drunk! 0 no,
certainly not; only dizzy and weak-jointed from long sitting.
A dull sleep until nine o'clock in the morning, a passing
apology to Mrs. Clarkson, such as "III fear we kept your break-
fast waiting, Madam," and their consciences were put at ~ase;
mu~h easier doubtless than their heads. The matter was no
more thought of; np apology thought necessary to the wives
at home, who counted the weary hours away, waiting their
return.
To a greater or less extent, this sort of thing was kept up
by the gentlemen from time to time throughout the entire
fall. All remonstrances on the part of their anxious wives
were unavailing. "It was only for amusement," was the
answer to all their reluctantly expressed fears. "But why
bet ?" "Only to count the game." The invariable answer.
"Ther~ why not bet straws or peppercorns ?" "Why, that
would be childish and ridiculous." Thus all entreaties were
vain, and the playing went on. They had hoped, in consent-
ing to spend the fall upon the plantations, that their husbands
would be removed from the temptation of the clubs, and
saved from this demoralizingvice of playing. They were disap-

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.       21

pointed, but not discouraged, as it was some respite, at least,
and the vice shorn of 'some of its baldness and moral
deformity.
Nothing more of note transpired in the county during the
fall, until the session of the Circuit Court. It took place
late in the season, and brought to the Bend a number of
persons from Bluff City; sonic as lawyers, some as client~
and witnesses, and some merchants and business men, eolloct~
ing and drumming for custom. The court-house was a half~.
finished, small, inconvenient building, with benches for the
jury, a small stand for the judge, and a long table at which
the attorneys sat. A5ong the latter were Frank Vaughan,
Nickols, and Smith. Nickols was about as que~r a specimei~i
of human nature as one would meet in a life-time's traX+el~
lie was well educated, a good lawyer, and a genius in his
way, but an odd genius and compound he was: slender, a
little knock-kneed, wabbled in his gait, as if his knees were
too weak to sustain him. To avpid staggering when intoxi
cated, which was by no means a rare occurrence, he would
strike off in a sort of dog-trot. He was usually called Old
Nick, for short; and when seen in one of these trots, cross-
ing the street, it was remarked, "Old Nick 's tight to-day."
His feelings and instincts were as refined and delicate as
those 6f a woman, but withal he was as grotesque and un-
couth as a monkey, coarse as a clown, , and an old bachelor.
lie had an inveterate habit of hawking and spitting, and
hawked with his mouth wide open, and loud enough to be
heard across an ordinary town or~ cornfield, and interspersed
his conversation with constant questions, "Do 'you under-
stand ?" and closed his witticisms with, "lich? ha, ha, ha !"
'When annoyed, or in a brown study, he would ha-a-awk a
whole town out of patience. His frar~ e looked much as if it
was strung together by wires, and he I~iad a' habit of hoisting
~iis feet up over his head against the mantlepiece in winter,

4


22      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                            PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     23

and gal1ery~post in summer, or any other object near enough-
the side of the house, if nothing else offered-and, crouching
down behind his knees, thus making a very unpleasant and
indecent exposure of his person in the presence of ladies;
for his attitude 'was chosen from habit, and not to suit the
character or sex of his company. When he would detect
himself in one of these exposures, he would take down his
feet ~nd gaze upon the company with one of his longest and
loudest ha-a-a-awks.
Frank Vaughan was a young man of small, slender sta~
ture, with long flaxen locks, which he cultivated with care.
He dressed like a dandy, though he was not one. He was a
good lawyer, and a young man of promise; and though
fond of his good looks, talent, and fine clothes, and stood
long before his looking-glass, he was withal affable and kind,
and very much liked by his companions.
Smith was a good-natured, burly fellow, fond of good eat-
ing, and without malice.
Among the merchants was a i~Jr. Blunt, an old widower,
full of anecdote, good cheer, and old dz~xter, with ruddy face
and rotund stomach. lie had been a little of almost any
and every thing-horse-trader, gentle~na~n of leisure, (only a
decent name for a blackleg,) and merchant, and filled all
situations equally well. All the gentlemen were fond of a
"good game," as they termed a game of cards, though, like
Clarkson, they would take it as an insult to be called gam-
blers. They were all well acquainted with Col. Clarkson,
and readily consented to make his house their head-quarte~rs.

CHAPTER, III.
So~n~ play for gain-to pass time; others
For, nothing; both play the fool, I say;
Nor time nor coin I '11 lose, nor idly spend:
Who gets by play, proves loser in the end.
JIIEATJI.
LATE in the fall, Col. Clarkson and his family proposed to
return to their residence in Bluff City. Several of the-
neighboring families, too, were ready to make their regular
winter trip to New Orleans; for, be it known, that all fami-
lies living contiguous to the Mississippi river, and who have
the means to defray the expense, as regularly make an
annual visit to the Crescent City as cranes and other water--
fowls do to the sea-shore. A good passenger steamer was
expected up, to take off the cotton of the neighboring
planters, on Sunday night or Monday morning; and as they
patronized her with their cotton freight, they were expecting
to receive passage free; a species of economy which men.
who were profligate in expending for the most trifling ;ancl,
sometimes vicious purpose insisted upon. Nickols, Smith,
and Blunt accepted the invitation of Clarkson to remain and
wait for the steamer. Some of his sportin~ neighbors were
invited, tables spread, and cards and liquor produced. No
one, of course, bets for money-only for amusement; and, to
make it very amusing, it was proposed to make the "anti"
ten dollars. At this, Nickols, who was not wealthy, and, as
before stated, disposed to be miserly, gave a long, loud
ha-a-a-awk; at which Ned, Clarkson's polite serving-man,


p

24

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

25

started, and, supposing that he was about to heave up his
dinner or lungs, ran for the basin! which caused a laugh at
Nickols's expense, in which he joined as heartily as the rest,
not in the least annoyed. The game commenced. Nickols
played shyly, Blunt rashly; the one to save his stakes, the
other to win. The balance of the players bet on the strength
of their hands, putting their money up in a free and easy
manner, losing and winning with the same grace and sang
froid. Blunt evidently desired to win, and tried the nerve
of each of the players in turn. His first run was upon Col.
Clarkson, who, he saw, put very little value upon money,
and played alone for the love of the game; and, though
sometimes vexed and annoyed at being beaten, the losing of
his money constituted no part of it. Blunt would "bluff"
by betting high on small hands; Clarkson, however, was in-
different, betting if he had a hand to bet on, rind not other-
wise; betting always on the strength of his own hand, and
not on the size of his purse or the presumed weakness of his
adversary's hand. Blunt tl~rew out every temptation pos-
sibk, by showing, after he had won a stake by "blufling"-
that is, betting high on no hand at all-upon what a weak
hand h~ had "gone in upon, betting, and talking with the
utmost volubility. He possessed the finest conversational
powers, and a vast fund of anecdote; and to indifferent
observers, such as mafly of the players Were, he appeared to
be the most careless, reckless better in the world, and to keep
no note or count of thb game, playing for the sake of good
company and the pleasure of giving his tongue full play
among genial and, appreciative companions. "Colonel, did
you ever see I~efont? Queer brick-go ten-travelled with
him on the old Michigan, once-a Cincinnati chicken-coop-
go fifty-[hawks ~nd spits]-but had a glorious time. Ah,
mine? Foolish, ~ut had n't a pair. You had kings, Itch?
Devilish good ha~d-easily run off-played a d-n good

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

hand, Lefont did; played a trick on me, too-go a hundred-
I 'd been running him pretty hard-pass-why, how foolish!
had three tens-he stole my coat-go twenty-pawned it at
the bar for liquor-how much was it ]i put up then? seventy-
five? very foolish in me-got no hand-and what do you
think? the knave treated the whole boat's crew on the faith
of it, all hands, cook and, bottle-washer, and it cost me a five
to redeem my coat-Smith, loan me a hundred-won, did I?
Good-return your hundred-had only a small pair." Thus
he ran on, like a machine, betting and losing and bluffing as
if by mere chance thoughtlessness. Ii3ut it had no effect
upon Clarkson. It neither diverted his mind from the game
to make a foolish bet, nor excited his cupidity enough to
tempt him to increase his stake. He would have regarded
it as ungentlemanly, and a breach of good hospitality in him
to take advantage of his guest's carelessness and good humor
to win his money. 'Failing in this, Blunt tried one after
another, with no better success, until he came to Nickols.
~Ie had selected him last because his "pile" was the smallest,
and he preferred running down larger gam6. Nickols, in
playing to save, to keep even, had managed to accumulate a
considerable stake, and had been sinking it in his pockets
unobs~rvcd, as he hoped, by the others. "Why, Nickols,
you h~ive a considerable stake there, I see," said Blunt; "I
must try and reduce it for you, and see if I can't call back
to the table some of those bank-notes I noticed you stifling
in your capacious vest-pocket." The answer was a loud
ha-a-a-awk, which roused Ned from his nodding attitude
beside the sideboard, and caused him to start again for the
basin. Nickols had been wide awake to his interest, and
had watched the game and his growing heaps with keen
relish. "Ha-a-a-awk! Colonel, give me a chew of tobacco."
Tobacco - begging, even when his pockets were full of the
weed, was another of his weaknesses. It was Blunt's deal.


Ii
Ii
II
11
ii
~

26          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
"Nickols, old fellow, how many? Three? Clarkson has
picked out a fine buxom widow for yoti-I '11 take one this
time-rich beyond the cupidity of avarice-[ha-a-a-awk]-go
ten-[ha-a-a-awk]---fine plantation-go fifty-[ha-a-a-awk]--
plump as a partridge - see you bet, and go five hundred
better."
"lla-a-a-awk! call you."
"The h-li and d-n-tioi~ you do! What do you do
it on?"
"lla-a-a-awk, heh? ha, ha, ha, deuces."
"The thunder and lightning you say! I thought you wire
hawking at my descriptions of the widow, and not at ~ay
bets. Tuke your money."
This had the effect to silence Blunt for some time and it
took several stiff pulls at the brandy-bottle before he co kid
get his tongue in good running-order again, In tryin2 to
catch others, he was himself caught, andy first and last, ~he
was loser some thousand or more dollars, a sum he was by no
means able to lose, having a sister and four children at home,
subsisting upon a rather short allowance.
The game continued until ne~r day on Sunday morning!
no one reflecting that it was the "Lord's day !" They had
drunk unusually deep, and their playing and loud laughing,
with an occasional oath, had kept all the adult persons
about the premises awake until it closed. Mrs. Clarkson,
without being a member of any Church, had been raised by pious
parents, and was of a religious turn of mind, and had all a re-
fined lady's respect for the Sabbath and holy things, and felt so
horrified at this desecration of Sunday, that she had not slept
a wink. At what time the players broke up the game, and ho~
they got to their rooms, they could not tell. They thPew
themselves down upon their beds, two and three together, with-
out undressing and were soomi in a deep, oblivious slumber.
The house becoming quiet, the sleep of all its inmates was

F

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                27
profound. How long Mrs. Clarkson had been asleepwhen
she had been aroused by two reports of a gun in quick suc-
cession, and a sense of suffocation, she could form no esti-
mate; but she awoke and found her room full of smoke, .and
the whole house in flames; and the fire raging with tremen-
dous fury. The night had been warm and pleasant, and the
playing had taken place in the passage, and an unextin-
guished candle or the stump of a cigar had been left, from
which the house took fire, and, being coiled and papered, and
very dry and inflammable, it burned like brushwood, and the
drowsy inmates had barely time to escape before the beds
they slept upon were in flames. Mr. and Mrs. Clarkson
sprang up and seized hold of their younger children, sleep-
ing. in their room, aroused the nurse, and, throwing blankets
over them, rushed out through the flames, scorched a~ d
terror-stricken. They gathered in a gro~ip, a little remo~'ed
from the fire, and looked eagerly and hastily around to
if all were ~aved, when a long, lot!d, terrified shriek went up
from Agnes's room.
'~ 0 my God !" exclaimed Mrs. Clarkson; and rushed wildly
towards the burning building, now almost completely enveloped
in flame.
"Great God! 0 my daughter! my sweet, my 'angel
daughter," and with his wife, Clarkson rushed madly to the
flame, but it drove them back!
"Save my daughter! my daughter !" loudly both cried.
The awakened negroes came running in crowds, half clad,
from the quarter.
"Freedom to any that will save my daughter! Freedom
to any that will save my daughter! Can nobody save her?
0 God.! 0 God !"
Strange how the wicked, in time of trouble, will call upon
the Great God! The shrieks from Agnes continued, and the
black tide from the quarter rushed to the rescue, not from ~i


28          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
desire of freedom, but love of their young mistress, and a
human instinct, a powerful passion with the negro when
called into action. They were driven back bfirnt and suffo-
cated. The old woi~an who had nursed Agnes in infancy,
hearing her cry loud and wildly, "0 Aunt Fanny, Aunt
Fanny I save mc! save me I" pushed into the flames, stum-
bled, fell, and was burnt aliv~. At this fearful moment, the
tall form of the Her~nit, with his white locks streaming in
the wind, and a dripping blanket in his hand, dashed past,
with the blanket over him. The flame lifted for a moment;
he bounded' forward into the room, wrapped the exhausted
girl in the blanket, covered his mouth and nostrils with his
hand, closed his eyes, pushed through the flame, and emerged
from the smoke bearing her in his arms. His gray locks
were crisped up, and his feet and limbs were so badly burned,
that when his boots were ripped off, the baked skin followed-
a most sad sight. The mother was beside herself with joy,
and sank down unable to utter a word; but her manner and
gestures were far more eloquent of her thanks and gratitude
than words co~ild have been. Clarkson expre~ed in every
way a fond father could, his thanks, and all gathered around
the old man, offering congratulations and sympathy; but he
rather repulsed them; was annoyed at the thanks of the pa-
rents, and the congra1~ulations of the others. The fresh air
having restored Agnes, as soon as Mrs. Clarkson could speak,
she asked:
"How, my dear daughter, did you survive in that room,
surrounded and filled with flame and smoke as it was
"0 mother, Ii doA't know; but it seemed to me, some beau-
tiful creature, some angel, stood between me and the flame,
and with light~sprea~1ing wings fanned it back I"
[         "I knew she would! I knew she would I" exclaimed the
old man; the first words he had spoken. "I stayed all night
by your window, until the lights were extinguished, and all

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.        29

went to bed. i[ felt a shadow of evil to come, and was re-
luctant to leave you, and did not until Ii asked her to protect
you; and she did."
Agnes threw her arms around him, kissed his face over
and over, dropped her head in his lap as he sat at the root of
an old gum tree, and 'sobbed away. The big tears slowly
gathered, from a deep spring, into the old man's eyes, and
dropped one by one into 'his kind bosom. Empty-hearted as
Blunt was, he turned ~off and brushed away a tear; and
Nickols, who had but little room in his heart for any thing
besides dollars or bank-notes, pulled out his handkerchief' and
went hawking off to the river-bank.
The Hermit was conveyed to his cottage, and Col. Clarkson
and his wife, finding that their attentions were disagreeable
to him, did all they could for his relief through Agnes, 1~he
only person he would have about him. The remains of kind
old Aunt Fanny, who had fallen a mai4yr to her love for her
foster-child, were taken from the ruins and decently interred
in the plantation burying-ground.
Fears were entci~tained by the physician who had been
summoned to prescribe for the Hermit, as well as by (Ilarkson
and wife, that his injuries might prove fatal, and Agnes
hearing of it,'could not conceal from the patient, suffering old
man her anxiety. One day, as she sat weeping by his bed-
side, he interrupted her by saying:
"Do not mind what they tell you, my sweet child; I shall
get well. My time has not come; my mission for you is not
fulfilled; more remains for me to do."
She did not understand him, but she was satisfied. Such
was her faith in him, that there was nothing she would not
have believed at his telling. He did not himself understand
fully what he meant, but he felt that he had spoken truly.
That he would get well, and that he would be of future ser-
vice to her, lie felt as certainly as if the book of the future

4


30          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
were open before him,. How much' on!e feels, that he can
neither explain nor understand; nor, as the world goes, know;
but which he believes, and upon which he acts with as much
confidence as upon absolute certainty! How it is, and why
it is, no philosopher has undertaken to explain; and he would
fail were he to attempt it. One's feelings-presetitiments,
anxieties, and heartaches-one's liking' and dislikings, are
often as inexplicable as the coming and going of the swallow,
and may be relied on with as much certainty. At some
period in each man's life, he has seen or rather felt the same
shadowy vision which the patriarch describes. "In thoughts
from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth ou men,
fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all my
hones to shake. Then a spirit passed before my face; the
hair of my head stood up! It stood still, but I could not
discern the form thereof: an image was before mine eyes;
there~ was silence, and II heard a voice' saying, Shall mortal
man b~ more just than God? Shall man be more pure than
his Maker ~" lit comes, he knows not how; perhaps in the
wind, as it whispers to the leaves in the solitude of the "grand
old wQods ;" perhaps in the throes of the monarch of the
forest, as it fiing~ its giant arms about in the storm; perhaps
in the hum of the busy city, the chime of church-bells, the
swell of the cathedral choir, or as he looks upon the broken
monuments of past grandeur. All are certain to feel it at
some time; the more impressible, the oftener and the more
distinctly it is felt. What it reveals cannot be 'learned from
philosophy; it is not in the books; no man has written it;
no man will write it. lit is written' by the finger of God upon
the heart, and the stains of sin may blurr or blunt it, but
cannot efface it. The old man felt what he said, and said it
because he felt it. Let proud philosophy mock and cry,
Superstition! men will feel in spite of philosophy.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT;         31.

CHAPTIu~H IV.
First, two entire pheasants he ate;
Then swept a seasoned leg of mutton from his plate.
MOLIERE'S TAIITUFE.
AT Agnes's earnest request and the silently expressed wish
of the Hermit, it was determined to have a room prepared
her in the overseers house, whose kind-hearted wife promised
to do all she could to make her comfortable, and leave her
there until the Hermit's sufferings should terminate one way
or the other. Accordingly, the carpenters were 'set to work,
and, in an incredibly short time, the room was rcady to r,~ceive
the plain home-made furniture which Mrs. Blake ~l~spare,
it being the best she had. It was soon replaced by something
more elegant, which the ever-kind parents sent to her as soon
as they arrived at Bluff City, but which Agnes thought
nothing of:, being content with what was supplied by her
simple, kind-hearted hostess. The balance of the family
went to the Bluffs.
When Col. Clarkson arrived in Bluff City, lie engaged his
family physician, Dr. Floyd, to go up and attend upon the
Hermit. Under ordinary circumstances, the doctor could not
have been induced to have gone, even for the large fee offered
by Col. Clarkson, being fond of the society of the clubs, and
dreading nothing more than the ennui of country life. But
he had just lost his only sister, Mrs. Hamilton, a widow lady
of great wealth and piety. She had been a belle in her
younger years, and he had, when a 'young man, been very


32

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

fond of her; and his affection survived the wreck of his good
morals and the formation of other ties. He had never mar-
ried; was a man of high standing in the community, both as
a gentleman and physician, but fond of all sorts of dissolute
entertainments; and if at any time he ht~d gone to bed with-
out a lunch or oyster supper with some friends, (and they
were chosen at random,) he would have felt that something of
importance had lceen forgotten, and co~id not have slept u:atil
he had called to mind what it was. His sister was universally
beloved for her amiable and other fine qualities of heart and
head. She very much regretted the loose kind of life her
brother led, but loved and confided in him all the same. She
left to his charge her only son, Robert, a youth of some four-
teen or fifteen years of age, with the earnest request that he
should be brought up as she had begun with him; with moral
and pious habits, and under no circumstances to "let him ever
see the inside of a gambling-hell." The Doctor was affected
and embarrassed, but gave a full, heartfelt promise.
Robert had been sick, and was just convalescent when his
mother died. It was with these new feelings, subdued by
the loss of a sister, whose purity and loveliness had so often
stood between him and vice, and whose beautiful and silent
example had all unknown to himself 1 checked him in his
Y        excesses, and with a momentary distaste fo~ joyous, boister-
ous companionship, that he readily consented to go up to
the Bend and attend upon the I~1ermit.
The Doctor desired to take his nephew along with him,
thinking that the change of scene and country air might be
f ~
of service, after his long and severe attack of illness; and,
as no objection was made by the, family, Robert accompanied
his uncle.
There was a house, with a large single room, standing in
the corner of the overseer's yard, used as a sort of omnium
4         gatherum about the plantation, which was fitted up an(l dOfl~

K               PLAYING FOR AMTJS~MENT.
averted into an office for the Doctor, where he and Robert
were accommodated with lodging. The Doctor soon found
that he could be of but little service to his patient, as he de-~
dined to receive his aid. The refusal seem to arise from an
unwillingness on the part of the Hermit to accept a reward
for an act prompted by an impulse as inexplicable to himself
as to others, but in doing which had never taken into account
the desire of the anxious, agonized parents, and not from a
perverse disposition. In doing what he did, he had not
thought of others, was entirely indifferent to them, and*
hence would take no favor based upon it. He paid no
earthly attention to the Doctor, nor to others who called to
see him and offer their services, He iieither expressed
annoyance nor pleasure when they came, neither relief nor
regret when they left.
The Doctor was a ki~id-hearted man, and, thoi~.gli rude in
his morals, appreciated a generous action, and admired the
incorruptible integrity of the Hermit, who Would not, by
accepting the well-meant kindness of Col. Clarkson, say that
in what he did the Colonel or his wife had been thought of;
and he was deeply interested in his patient. He felt, when
in his presence, and seeing not a muscle move, nor the slight-
est expression of pain, though evidently suffering torment
from pain the most excruciating the human system can well
*   endure, that he was in the presence of no ordinary person-
age; and his anxiety to serve him increasQd with his respect
for his patient. ]3'roni what Col. Clarkson told him, he was
*    prepared to see a resolute, enduring old man; but he was not
expecting to meet a piece of mental iron. He had often
met with obstinate patients, and peevish ones, who refused
his prescriptions, but he generally found means to overcome
their obstinacy and peevishness; but here was a man in his
perfect senses who would not only not recognize his pre-
server, but, though enduring most racking pain, would not,
2


34          PLAYING FOR AMUSB~IENT.
by the motion of a muscle or a sigh, acknowledge the pre-
sence of pain or disease. For the first time in his. life he
felt cheapened. He was inspired with a feeling of reve-
rence, almost awe, as he looked upon the stern, silent, suffer-
ing old man. Agnes was tl~e only person or thing he would
unbend to, and at times he would caress her. Observing
this, it occurred to the Doctor that he would try his nephew,
and see if the old man would notice him. It was his wish
to get some one between him and his patient, through whom
he could prescribe for his wounds. He would have tried
Agnes; but there was something in her innocence and purity
which made him feel at a distance, and she had always instinct-
ively shrunk from him when he approached. Acco:udingly,
when he called agLiin, he took Robert with him. As the
young boy stepped into the room, the Hermit turned and
held out his hand to him, took hold of the lad's and held it,
looking huin steadily but kindly in the face for some time.
After surveying his feittures carefully, he said:
"You are' welcome. I am glad to see you. I am not dis-
appointed; better pleased than I expected."
Agnes and the Doctor were astonished; for they were not
aware that he had ever heard of iRobert before. It is pos-
sible that something in Agnes's manner n~ay have caused the
Hermit to suspect that her old playfellow had ~accompanied
th~ Doctor in his visit to the Bend. He answered her look
of astonishment by a smile and a nod of the head, as if
assentin~ to some thing. Well mio'ht the Hermit, severe as
was his criticism and judgment, be satisfied with the perusal
of Robert's face. He was a noble boy: a fine, open counte-
nance, forehead high, square and broad chest, eyes large and
lustrous, limbs lithe and* muscular, hands small, intelligent,
thoughtful look, and a soft expression about the mouth and
lips that 'had an agreeable, softening effect upon the harder
outlines of the face; and his half-invalid appearance and

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                 35
subdued sorrow gave an additional charm to his looks. It
was evident that the Hermit was pleased with him, and the.
Doctor saw in it means to earn at least a portion of the large
fee Col. Clarkson engaged to pay for Jiis services. He gave
his prescriptions to Robert, and Robert and Agnes entered
into a conspiracy to force the old man to observe them.
They had the frankness to tell him all about it, and it was
wonderful how completely he would unbend to them, and do
whatever he thought would give them pleasure. The reme-
dies were simple and easily applied, and the old man soon
found relief.
Time soon began to hang heavily upon the Doctor's hands,
and the neighbors who played were not slow in finding~ out
0
that he liked a good game and a drink of good brandy, and
would take even a mean article, if good could not be had;
and, "to make his time pass pleasantly while among them,"
converted his temporary office into a gambling-shop. No,
that word may be thought offensive. They did not gamble;
only played for amusement, and bet to count th
Robert had been taught to call things by their  game.
and to look upon gambling as gambling, and, in his inno-
cence, he could not see the difference between betting to
count the game and betting to win money, if the effect were
the same. His morals were pure, his ideas single, and he
made no compromise with vice; and hence, whe~ii he 'saw
his uncle sit down at a table with three or four other
gentlemen, and sit there all day, and sometimes nearly all
night, playing at cards, and betting high and drinking deep,
and then swear at the negro appointed to wait upon him for
a piece of cold muLton, salt, and mustard, he very naturally
concluded that his guardian and only living blood rqia~ive
was a gambler and drunkard. If the Doctor had suspected
K such a thought in his nephew, it would have made him more
prudent and private, if not more abstemious; for lie loved

9
m
i


I
~ F
I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

37

36          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
his nephew, and was really anxious to fulfil his promise to
his deceased sister, and thought he was doing it, by uni-
formly sending him to church on Sunday, though he never
went himself. And, as to his promise that he should "never
see the inside of a gambling-hell," he thought it was the
easiest of all promises to keep, as he never visited such a
place himself; little supposing that that sister would have
regarded his office as no better. 'A gambling "hell" was a
place set apart and kept expressly for gambling, where men
played for money, and bet to win, and not a doctor's office,
where gentlemen played to amuse themselves and kill time,
and bet to count the game. The thought of any one regard-
ing him as a gambler, would have horrified him; much more
for his nephew to do so. The first shock upon Rol)ert was
painful, and, like Agnes, he instinctively shrank from his
touch. By degrees, however, a~ he became more familiar with
it, he felt less repugnance towards it, and his respect for his
uncle began to revive. His uncle had also noticed the change
in his demeanor toward him, and, having a vague fear that
it might proceed from his disrelish of his playing, took pains
to vindicate himself by showing how innocent it was, and
what a wide difference there was between that and the
"odious, detestable vice of gambling." He was so decided
in his condemnation of that vic~, and in his abhorrence of a
professional gambler-the most despicable of men, in his
estimation-that Robert felt ashamed of his ignorance, and
came to look upon playing for amusement, and betting to
count the game, as a most innocent recreation and gentle-
manly pastime. He soon learned the cards, their value and
use, and the different games. The Doctor was not alarmed,
and he felt that he wits fulfilling his promise to the letter,
when Sunday came, by getting Mr. Blake to have Ccl. Clark-
son's carriage brought out, and Robert sent to church, a dis-
tance of some eight miles.

Even cards and brandy, with, men to help play and drink,
were insufficient to detain him from his club companions,
oysters, and lunch; and, leaving Robert to help nurse his pa-
tient, he returned to Bluff City. Col. Clarlison felt annoyed
and disappointed at his leaving before his "friend had been
put upon his feet," but, as he was out of all danger, he paid
the fee without complaint; the Doctor declaring that he
wonid not bury himself so another fortnight, for the Colonel's
plantation.

'I

II

1


~38      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                              PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

39
to visit the fashionable, aristocratic Mrs. Clarkson, as any; and
though she had no carriage, she knew "she was in society,"
though but few poor people Were; for was not her notable
brother invited to all the parties given by the fashionable, a
member of the playing clubs, and a welcome guest at all the
places of fashionable resort about town? Proud of the privi-
lege of being" in society," regardless of the means; she never
thought that, but for the mere animal qualities of' her brother,
which secured to her this high privilege, she might have called
upon Mrs. Clarkson in a carriage, with footmen all in livery,
as her more fortunate and wealthy neighbors had dbne.
Yes, and Mr. Piper thought that Betsy and the four "girls,"
all just from school, had as good a right to go and see Mrs.
Clarkson, and dust her fine parlors as any body, even if he
did drive cows on Sunday, and sneeze loud enough to be
hoard all Over ~own, and frightened the mule in, the bake-
wagon. Why not, to be sure? Was he nut getting rich,
and didn't he own "nio~o'ers," and land, and lots, and houses?
He did; there was no denying thaL And had n't he just
finished his new two-story house~.-.incongruously constructed,
it is true, and it smoked at that; but what of it? it was no-
body's business but his, and Betsy's, and "the girls." And
had'nt he stuffed the house from top to bottom with furni-
ture? He had; and it was nobody's business if a portion of
it was purchased at auction, and the balance taken in pay-
ment of a debt for rent; and what right had anybody to no-
tice whether it matched or not? And had n't his daughters
been to boarding-school? and could n't they sketch with the
pencil? no matter if they did have to hold the pattern to the
window to do it. And couldn't they play on the piano, and
make it mak~ as much noise as anybody? And hadn't they
lungs, and couldn't they use them; and sing as loud as other
folks? They could, unquestionably, and a little louder. Yes,
Mr. Piper had all this, and "the girls" could do all that,

CHAPTER V.
Why should ~sop to the fox decree
The prize for cunning?
E'en after much res&amp;trch, I cannot see.
When the wolf his oc is shunning,
Or, himself the att~c would make,
Could Reynard shrew or measures take?
If such a master I mi ht contradict,
The gi~eater cunning f the wolf I could depict.
LA FONTAINE.
UPON the arrival of Mr. a~id Mrs. Clarkson at their home
in Bluff City, the fashionable and upper-tens-for Bluff City
had its upper-tens as well as other towns-were thrown into
a sort of high-bred hysterics, each being emulous to make
the "first call." The rich rode in their fine equipages, with
splendid trappings. Such a newishness and show of finery
The carriages were new, horses new, dresses new and flary,
jewelry n~w and shiny, footmen new and awkward; every
thing was new, new, new! One f9t surfeited with the new-
ness and glitter. But it made a sensation, and that was
enough; it was bought for that purpose. They did not re-
fleet that a monkey-show or a circus would have done the
same thing, and perhaps to a greater degree. But as they
were pleased with the gild, others had no right to be dis-
pleased, as it was all paid for, and where the money came
from that paid for it was nobody's business.
Miss Blunt, the maiden sister of Mr. Blunt, and who took
charge of his family, considered that she had as good a right

38

39


40          PLAyING   FOIL AMUSEMENT.
but, somehow or other, they neither pulled in, nor were pulled
by the fashionable wagon; fine folks would n't go, and fine
birds would n't fly to their house. What was the reason? he
asked himself a thousand tini9s, but the question was unan-
swered. One thing was certain, neither he, nor Betsy, nor
"the girls" went to Mrs. Clarkson's; and another thing was
equally certain; Mrs. Clarkson did not expect them; and an-
other thing is just as certain as that, which, if it had been
known to Piper at the time, Betsy and "the girls" would
have gone; if they had gone, Mrs. Clarkson would have be~n
just as well pleased to have seen them, and treated them with,
just as much politeness, as she did the newly-fledged birds
of fashion that flitted in and out of her parlors every morning
for a week or rnore~
Mr. Piper was what Ovid would call: "Rara avis in terr~s,
mgro quo simillima c~,,gno-a rare bird on the earth, most
likely a black swan." He was a dealer in hides and hoofs,
was full of action and energy, stepped spry, and fussy as a
hen with a field full of chickens; quick and keen at a trade,
and would cut a man and his purse right in two, and take the
biggest half; h~dno social nor business status, and morbidly
anxious for both. He was too avaricious, and afraid of losing,
to engage in a business that required talent and capital-the
only kind that could give a business status-and too proud
to associate witi~ persons of his class; and the rich and fhsh-
ionable were to9 proud to associate with him; and he and
Betsy and "thu girls,"were a society to themselves; but
his fretting and fuming made it manifestt that he was far from
being satisfied that the wonderful accomplishments of "the
girls" should be hid away in a "pent-up Utica."
lit was Friday, and chanced to be a busy day in town;
the tide of buyers and sellers, and ladies sunning them-
selves in the smiles of young counter~jUn~pers, crowded, the
sidewalks and fine carriages, ~nd horses champing the bit

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     41

and pawing the uneven stones, crowded the street; and Piper
was seeh rushing along, stemming the tide, with whip in
hand-he always rode; had so much business could n't
walk-was a good judge of a horse; had a fine one; got
him cheap: the fellow fairly squealed when lie put his
trading irons on him, and swapped him out of his horse.
There he goes, elbowing his way through the crowded street,
to all appearances the busiest man in it. He seized hold of
his "particular friend," and, taking him to one side, desired
that he would take occasion to impress upon Mr. the
great advantages of a trade which Piper wanted to make
with him, as a friend could always do more in effecting a
trade than the parties themselves. While full of his subject,
and his face beaming as the prospect of a successful trade
danced before him, (for his friend consented to enter into
the conspiracy against Mr. -~,) he heard the clerk at the
corner where they were standing ask the niece of another of
Piper's friends how she enjoyed herself at Mrs. Corbin's
party, the evening before. His countenance darkened, and -
his nostrils spread, and nose flattened, and' ~ixnder-lip drooped.
What, a party in town, and his girls not invited, and he not
even know it? Too bad! The trade was forgotten, and he
walked about as if he had lost a friend or missed a good
bargain; got upon Gilpin, and galloped home to tell~ it to
Betsy, and groan over it. Gilpin had two sorts of gallops, to
to suit the humor of his master. When a good trade was on
hand, ot one had just been made, and he~was galloping home
to tell Betsy, Gilpin 4~arried his head and tail up-lie had
a long tail-and touched the ground as if he scorned it a~i
not good enough for him. It was refreshing to see the air
of cheerfulness horse and rider had at such times; but~,ii n
occasions like the present, Gihjiln's head, unbraced J~K he
bit, and unspurred, moved along in a lazy, hitch-up~gait~
scarcely able to lift his feet. As soon 'as Betsy saw the

e


I
ii;

PLAYING FOR AMUS]~MENT.

spread nose, she knew that things had not gone well. It
looked t~o much like an adder's head t9 venture to ask ques-
tions, and she sat in silence, waiting to see who would get
bit, as, when in that humor, he was certain to drive his tooth
into somebody. Though full of his subj ect, he did not
know how to introduce it. He scolded his. man Garrison, a
lazy, ugly negro-man, that no one about the house could
tolerate, except himself; he pushed IRichic, a smart little
boy of two years, rudely from him, and ordered an older one
to leave the room with his stick-horse; but it all would not
do. Betsy sat sewing a~Vay, and would u't ask, "What 'was
the matter ?" The adder-head was still there, and she would
not risk receiving the fang, to gratify her curiosity. His pa-
tience gave out after awhile, and, as Betsy would n't ask~, he
had no alternative but to tell, without asking, and began:
"We. must give the girls a party, Betsy."
"Why, Mr. Piper! What in the world 1"
"They are just as good. as other girls, and Ii am just as
able to give parties as Mrs. Corbin; and the girls are just as
much entitled to be invited to parties as Miss Thoruhili or
anybody else."
"And who said they was n' t ?"
"Mrs. Corbin had as well said so. She gave a party last
night, and did n't invite them."
"Mrs. Corbin! Well, she' need n't be putting on airs!
She had a rj~ht to give parties, if she wants to; and if she
doesn't want our girls to eat her bread, we've got enough for
them at 'ho~ihe! I would n't give that [snapping her fingers]
for Sal Corbin, nor her party, nor all she's ~'got."
]3etsy ha&amp;a way of calling people's given names, and kept
up~the backwoods habit of using old-fashioned nicknames,
and the emphasis she gave it meant more than type can
express. ,S~at was emphasized. Mrs. Corbin and her friends
~.    wrote it "Sallie ;" and "Mrs. Salhie Corbin," pronounced

with a sweet drawing-room accent, sounded very well-was
rather agreeable to the ear; but "Sal," especially when pro-
nounced in a broad tone, by a harsh, double-grater voice,
was horrible! To hear Betsy do hex~ best on it, and this was
one of her best efforts, the dignity of Mrs. Corbin's party,
and the indignity shown "the girls," ~n not inviting them,
fell, in Piper's estimation, fifty per cent. every crack she
took at it; and, before she let "Sal" off, ~e thought it a
fortunate thing and a compliment paid "the girls," in not
inviting them.
"Sal Corbin! I knew Sal when she was a child, and
stupid and awkward enough she was! Sal! When she gets
tired giving parties, I'd 'advise her to send some of her spare
change or old party dresses to her sister, making dresses for
a living at Pewterville; and glad enough she would be to
get them. Sal sewed upon, many a dress I 'ye worn before
that smirking face of hem caught Mr. (Jorbin, with his
rheumatism and gout, and wheedled him -hito leaving her his
property when he died. And S~ikc Thornhill! She was
there, eh! She had better clear up 'that scandal about her
old dead daddy, before she puts on airs. [Now Susie never
put on airs: she was a modest girl.] And Mrs. Smith was
there, w~as she? She 'd better feed her old beef-eating hus-
band with a sassage-stuffer. lie looks as if she did. And
Manner Phillips was there! I know'd. her in the lifetime
of her first husband. I 'spose she has forgot what people
said then about her, and the man she's got now. If she
has, other folks hay n't. And as f6r Jude Brown, she never
had sense enough to sleep by herself:, or she would never
have married that old gambler."
Under such a powerful alk4iest, the mountain of aristo-
cratic pride that had weighed ~1own ?iper's spirits, gradu~
ally melted away, and his nose resumed its proper shape.

V

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

42

I.

43


4'          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
"Well, Betsy," said he, in a much more cheerful to~ne,
"the girls shall have their party, anyhow I"
So it was determined; and by the time it was a~l talked
o er, it was two o'clock and past, and it was to be given that
night; for, with Piper, it was "no quicker said than done."
Betsy was flurried, and "the girls" were flurried, and Pi~ei~
was fidgety. A party was a new thing in the history of the
family: ai~d the thought of the thing was as intoxicating as
a gill of "old red-head." Gilpin was saddled, and away
went Piper to tell his next-door neighbor, and consult--he
was great on consultations.
"Betsy has been thinking about giving the girls a little
party; just a little social gathering; not exactly a party;
just a little social gathering; and II thought I would talk
with you about it. I know so few of the young gentlemen
about town, and there are so few that one likes to have yisit
their daughters, that I thought II w uld consult you who to
invite."
"There are quite a number to cho se from," naming some
*h~df-dozen or more of the leading gentlemen of town; but
somehow they did not exactly strike Piper's fancy-whether
because ~e did not like them, or I~ecause he feared i;hey
would not attend, he did not say; perhaps the latter; and
others, uon whom the party-giving class set a less high esti-
mate up~n, were named.
"AhI they will do. I like them better. They are 'very
nice young men. And"-throwing up his head slightly,
and prolonging the a-n-d--" I'll invite some of those you
first naked too."
Off he starts for 0-ilpin, and, as he is about to mount, calls
out, "You must be sure to come early."
Away goes Gilpin; and it is remarkable what a change in
his gallop! How briskly and nimbly he bounds along!

.F

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

Any one could see at~a glance that horse and rider were act-
ing under a spur. lie meets one of the gentlemen on his
list; takes him to one side:
"There will be son~e young folks at my house to-night,
and I want you to come out."
"Thank von."
Takes him by th~ arm: "You must be sure to core !"
"If I can, I will; but Ii have been very busy to-day, and
we have just received a large lot of goods, and they must
be opened and marked this evening; and there is only one
other clerk in the store now besides myself, one being absent,
and another sick; and it is possible I may not be able to
attend, which ]i should very much regret, as I should b6
pleased to attend."
"0, you must come! Ii can't do without you. A-n-d
[giving his head a toss] there'll be some nice young girls
there."
He did not leave the young man until he gave his positive
promise to attend. His excuse was real, and was not 'made
from a disinclination to make the acquaintance of Piper's
faniily.
So he continued, until his complement of young men was
made up, extorting from each a positive proh~ise to attend.
Having gone through his list of young men, his next move
was to gallop around and secure the attendance of some
young ladies; ~nd it was curious to see how stiffly Gilpin
moved as he passed Mrs. Corbin's, a how both horse and
rider unbent as they approached the residences of those
honored with an invitation to the proposed entertainment.
Satisfied with his success, he galloped home, to report pro-
gress to Betsy~ As he passed along, people remarked some-
thing good must have happened to Piper, from the freshness
of Gilpin's gait. He and Betsy chatted it over; both were
satisfied; but nothing yet had been done towards getting


40          pLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
ready to entertain their guests; and they did not know well
how to begin. Piper did not seem exactly satisfied with
Betsy's plain good sense in arranging for so important an
event; nor did he feel willing to trust his own judgment.
They were happily relieved from this dilemma by a timely
visit from one of Piper's' relatives, a lady of~ some taste and
experience in such matters, who, upon he~ng advised of what
was in prospect, kindly offered her assistance. Bet~y, who
did not wish to be thought unequal to the task of preparing
properly' for a party, but who was, nevertheless, anxious to
have the advantage of her cousin~ s~ experience and advice,
said:
"You need not trouble yourself; II can do every thing."
"Never mind me. What have you got done ?"
"0, 1 haven't ~ommenced yet I"
"llavn't commenced, and it now four o'clock! It is
high time you had commenced, then. You have your
poultry killed, and meats all ready, and conrectionaries all
bought?"
"0 no. It is time enough to kill the poultry and get
the meats ready; and we won't have any confectionaries."
"The young ladies have their things all ready, of course."
"No. They can soon get their things ready."
"These bedsteads and beds must be taken out of all these
lower rooms."
"Good gracious! And strip my house dry! Never. If
they can't eat in a bedroom, they must go without. They
can sit in the parlor, and dance in the dining-room, and eat
in this bedroom."
"It will never do to bring your guests into a bedroom to
eat."
"I'll never have my house torn upside- down to please
young folks."
What her relative, with her energy and good taste, and

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                 47
Betsy's working qualities, which were equal to her tongue,
when started, could do, was done to get ready. The best
was of course but passable; but Piper and Betsy were satis-
fied.
[All things done that were to be done, Piper and Betsy sat
down to wait for their guests.
This feeling of waiting for guests was a new jne to Piper
and Betsy; and, though both were tired, and sat dowi, they
could not stay down, especially Piper. lie would walk to
the door, the window, the back-door, call to 0-raudison, and
explain for the hundredth time what he must do when "the
company came," to keep the servants from seeing that he
and Betsy were afraid the "company" would not come. The
company, however, did come, all who were invited; and the
small, ill-constructed parlor, filled already to choking with
half-worn, clumsy furniture, was a perfect jam. As the
"party" was given to "the girls," Piper wa~ determined
they should have the benefit of it, and made use of every
manoeuvre his horse-swapping ingenuity could invent to draw
and keep them into notice, an&amp; managed to keep them
pinned to the sleeve of some of "the first" young men all
the evening. If the young ladies had been left alone, they
would have done well enough; for they were not lacking in
good sense nor good looks; and though their education was
superficial, and their experience in company very limited, it
was no fault of theirs, as they had made the most of their
opportunities. They, at least three of them, possessed an
innate modesty, a woman's modesty and diffidence, which
would have saved them from exposure and remark, and would
have secured them affectionate regard; for, however much
young men may seek the company of young ladies who~e
manners are as free as their tongues, they all love ~nd extol
female modesty; and, should it extci~ d even to di'ffidenc~ and
downright bashfulness, it is greatl~~ preferred to freeness,

I
V


48        PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

and brusqueness, its counterpart. Isadore, the youngest
daughter-the oldest two were twins-was rather brusque;
thought herself talented and witty, and, by a very common
error, mistook pertness for talent, and coarseness for wit.
She was evidently Piper's '~ pet," and he used his utmost to
show her off, and succeeded to perfection. He was happy.
He saw everybody laughing, and laughing loud, his standard
of enjoyment; for, if people were not happy and enjoying
themselves, what would they laugh for? People did n't
laugh as heartily as his guests were laughing, if they were
not enjoying themselves. What if Betsy and the other
"girls" did have an indistinct idea that the laughing was at
the. actors, and not at the act? No such impossible suspicion
crossed his mind; and, to use a Southernism, lie went it-
spread himself! And the more he went it, the more they
laughed; and the more they laughed, the more lie went it!
If the loud talking and uproari6us laughter-his idea of
enjoyment-ceased for a moment, like a lull in a storm,
which would occur occasionally, from mere surfeit and ex-
haustion, or if spirits cooled, he would call the gentlemen to
one side, and steam up with ~randy. The swefl.heads
couldn't monopolize that! (he would boast,) and took pains
to tell each drinker how much it cost him per 'bottle--" ten
bits ;" and got it cheap at that; "two bits" a bottle less
than he saw (Jol. Olarkson pay for the "same article."
In one of the lulls of the~storm, they hear string, string,
string, thrum, thrum, thrum, see, saw, sum, sum, saw, see.
What was it? a wood-saw? No. A cornstalk fiddle? No.
A gourd fiddle? No. A banjo? No. Then what was
The door opened, and there stood old Tony, with an old,
cracked fiddle, with three strings; and the company were
invited to foot it in the dance to his music.
The set was formed, and, from chance, or because none of
the gallants wanted to be bored or to be made the butt of the

PLAYING FOIl AMUSEMENT.               49
others' wit and laughter, "Pet" was left without a partner.
This, Piper felt, would never do; for Pet was a famous
dancer: it was her forte. Mrs. Bounce, who taught dancing
when Pet was a "little bit of a thing," and whose success
was a trap-bali or baby-jumper movement, and Mr. Trip-
lightly, who taught some years later, and whose success
was a certain tripping, which w~s performed by hoisting the
dress nearly to the knees, sticking out one foot, and shaking'
it, and then leaping off and sticking out the other
foot, and
shaking that-a dance much admired and practiced by ladies
with a pretty leg and ankle and small foot-both declared
she was their "best scholar ;" the only hope they had of
getting their pay without much haggling and sewing from
Piper. With such accomplishments, it would never do for
her not to be in the first set; the second might never. come.
So he, who knew about as much of Terpsichore as Gilpin
did of Latin, en gaged her himself; and then used all his
skill to trade her off; but no one wished to "deal." A few
thrums of the three strings, a long draw of the bow, and a
heavy stamp of the foot, and Old Tony throws back his head,
shakes his body, and calls out, "Balance all I" and "went
it!" Piper, seeing his man "goino it," and thinking that
he knew, as he was the fiddler, and fiddlers ought 'to know,
called out to them all to "pitch in," and "went it." A roar
of laughter was the answer, and they all "went it !" Here
they went, Piper and Pet, bouncing up and down, hjther
and back, sidewise and crosswise! The noise and laughter
nnd confusion increased: it pleased him; all pleased him
except that Pet would n't "shake her foot." He w~uld
hunch her, and whisper, "Shake your foot," and, to divert
attention, call out, "Go it, boys I" But Pet did n't shake
her foot. Growing impatient, h~e whispered, loud enough to
be heard by others, "Why don't you shake your foot ?"
She whispered back, "There ain't room !" This bothered


PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.      51

]?LAYING. FOR AMUSEMENT.

him. He hated to check the fun; for it was fun,' up to the
brim; but Pet must have room to shake her foot; and ,by
dint of hallooing and digs in the ribs, he managed to get Old
Tony to suspend the swing of his body and head, and stamp
of his foot, long enough t6 have room made for Pet to (lance
the "trip dance." Her foot was small, and her new shoes
fitted neatly, and Piper was delighted. She began, slowly
and gracefully at first; grows faster; Old Tony increases
the shake of his body'; Pet hoists her dress higher, sticks
her foot out farther, and shakes it faster; Old Tony's motion
increases; his head, body, arms, and feet are' all in motion;
Old Tony increases; the dance increases; his head is ahead;
his arms are ahead; his feet have it; his body is ahead;
Pet leads the field. Piper is beside himself! Here they go.
Pet is still ahead; faster and faster; Piper is wild with
delight-triumphant! No lady at Mrs. Corbin's could hold a
torch to that! Pet still leads the field; head grows Uizzy;
the room whirls; ~lip goes her foot; pop goes a string; down
cames Pet; up go her feet; spread goes Piper's nostrils;
down comes his nose, and up goes a shout, Iluzza! huzza!
Betsy, who, in spite of her disposition to hew down with
a sharj~ tongue the social status of the pets of fortune 1;o her
own standard, enjoyed a good thing, joined in the laugh,
despite the flatted nose and drooping under lip of Piper; and
besides, "Pet" was not Betsy's pet.
The storm lulled atter awhile, as all storms must, breaking
in transient gusts, as the cloud rolled away from Piper's face.
A young lawyer, whose presence Piper regarded as an event,
was determined to have his laugh out, and was too well-bred
to be guilty of the wickedness, the malice aforethought, to
laugh in Piper's face, and mock his agony, when others re-
strained themseP~es, and knowing Piper's and Pet's weakness
upon the subject\ of her musical attainments, to divert atten-
tion from , and, amid the noise, to secure impunity to

fun, called for music, and led Pet to the piano. Happy hit!
Piper was himself again. Pet would have an opportunity to
redeem herself! A modest young Doctor, who was fond of
good music, and had heard Pet's powers highly extolled by
the family, asked for one production after another, of the
first masters, but she had never heard of them, and the
lawyer, growing impatient for the noise to begin, called out
for "her favorite" if she had any, and if not, for any thing
so there was sound in it. This was enough; and she struck
"Uncle Ned," "Wait for the Wagon," "Dandy Jim," "Camp-
town Races," etc., and by the time she got to "John came
down the hollow1," Piper was literally frantic with delight.
"The eirls" were all gathered around her, and joined in; and
Piper, stood without the circle as if surrounding all, and with
his face turned up and his voice a pitch higher and louder
than the rest, joined in the chorus to the top of hi~ lungs,
and, hoisting one foot and arm, would sing out: "Holler,
boys, holler-r-r I" Betsy had never seen* him in such ecstasy.
The song through, he led Pet in triumph to her seat, and
took the' shout that greeted them as the' spontaneous, ir~epres-
sible offering to her vocal and instrumental powers; Kd in
the exhilaration of the moment uncorked a new bottle,' which
he had thought he would be able to save, with a snap of
his finger, and "Who cares for a few turnips ?"
The d4nking over, a wise look from Piper at Betsy took
her ot~t, and disposed "the girls" demurely about the room.
And presently, supper being announced, all went into the
bed-room to receive their refreshments, and laid into them
with a hearty good-will.
The "party" broke up with assurances from all that they
"had enjoyed4 themselves," which was true to the letter.
Piper felt himself and "the girls" to be "in society," and
went to bed a happier man than ho had over been before, or
has been since.


PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
CHAPTER VI.
And say to mothers what a holy charge
Is theirs-with what a kingly power their love
Might rule the fountain of the new-porn mind.
SIGouUNEY.

ROBERT and Agnes were assiduous in their childish kttcn~
tions to the Hermit, and when he recovercd~so far as tc~ give
his assent to their leaving, by the directions of Col. Cla~kson,
Mr. Bh~ke placed them on board of a steamboat, and a~ corn-
panied them to Bluff City. Their tastes were much the same,
and the cast of mind, and mental and moral aspirations of
both, were very similar; their appreciation of the pure and
beautiful was the same; Agnes was perhaps more impressed
with the sense of the sublime and infinite, more spiritucll~o than
he; both were fond of book~, but she thought more and read
less, and he read more and thought less. Both were fend of
old classic history and legends; he to learn a new idea or
truth, she to catch a new inspiration. Often in their mental
rambles had they joined Horace in his walks over "the plain
of fertile Larissa," or through "the Tiburnian groves, and
th~ orchards watered by ductile rivulets ;" he pensively
thinking of the great dead, and she of the spirit of the place.
With these kindred feelings and sentiments, and a doinmon
object of solicitude and interest, (the Hermit,) it was by no
means surprising that an attachment grew up between them,
which required nothing but the hardening influence of time
to make strong as death and dearer than life. ~5uch a thing

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.          53~

had not occurred to the friends of either, and if it had, it
would not have been a subj cot of inquietude, as there was no
inequality in their stations in life which could oppose a.
barrier to their future union, should they in after-life desire
it. hence, they were permitted to wander at pleasure in the
spacious garden at "Rose Hill," the name of Col. Clarkson' s
town residence, and cull the sweet flowers, qr watch the gold
fish disport in the artiAcial fountain, or the steamboats ruffle
the bosom of the broad river; or sit together of dark, stormy
nights, when "Pa" was out with Dr. Floyd and other com-
panions, playing for amusement and betting to count the
game, and "Ma" in the adjoining room, hushing the fears of
the smaller children, or teaching them their prayers; or they
would stand, hand in hand, gazing into the darkness without
for the storm-god, as he beat against the window, and wailed
past with the tempest. At such times neither would speak,
but both think and fed. Feel how? Feel as older persons
do in looking upon the waterfall, and think of the "eternal
flow of its waters," or listening to the never-ceasing dash of
the surf to the shore. And wl~at is that? The conscious-
ness of the presence of the ruler of the storm and the waters?
Perhaps so; but "the man who has said in his heart, 'There
is no God,"' feels the same. Robert and Agnes did not
moralize on the subject; they were not capable of moralizing.
But with eyes fixed and vacant, they would inwardly gaze
upward to the Source of the puke and the good ! How beau-
tiful the tribute of love which innocence there paid to the
great Fountain of love and purity! It was unstudied, un-
bought; sweeter than the incense of flowers which earth
sends to heaven with the dew of the morning-- the thought
of which will come back in after-years, to sweeten sad mem-
ories of "hours that were."
Mrs. Clarkson was much too good a mother to suffer her
daughter to dream her time and mental faculties away, and

53


54      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FO1~ AMUSEMENT.      55

attended closely to her education; preferring to give form
and direction to a mind so delicate and appreciative as her
daughter's was, than to intrust such an important and
delicate task to indifferent strangers. She knew that sonic-
thing more was needed than the mere filling the mind with
the knowledge of books. The, mind had to grow, and re-
quired havingg as it grew; and, knowing her child better than
anybody else could, and knowing better than any one else
what she wished her daughter to be, she preferred to do that
shaping herself; and hers was really the only hand that could
have shaped it to her desires. Anybody can teach the rou~
tine prescribed in the books; anybody can make the pupil
study a lesson and recite it; but he who would properly
shape the mind-would bring out in its proper colors the im-
press of the divinity there-must be superior to the book he
teaches. - The book is made for the scholar, not the ii~ aster.
He who is fully imbued with the genius of music, though
his fingers may be so large and heavy that he cannot himself
execute the simplest piece, can infuse the spirit of the com-
position into the pupil, and send her fingers flying over the
keys with ~n inspiration that can. never be caught from the
mechanical performer, however artistic his skill. He who
feels, can make another feel; a mock sentiment will some-
times inspire a real one. He, therefore, who would make the
man or woman out of the child, must to a greater or less ex-
tent, be either himself what he would make the child, or fully
imbued with the sense of the personnel of the character he
would make. As well might Powers have taken his chisel
and hewn away at the quarry to form the "Greek Slave,"
without first having in his mind a clear conception of the
model upon which he meant to form it, as for a sculptor of
the human mind to undertake to form a character, good or
bad, without havbg some fixed purpose as to the shape lie
means to give it. Nrs. (Jlarkson in the nursery was what

Powers was in the quarry; she knew the texture of the
mental granite upon which she had to work, and the temper
of the chisel she had to work with, and her heart and head
were full of the model of the character she wanted to form.
Should such a, sculptor put the chisel to shape lineaments so
delicate, fine, and perfect, into a stranger's hands, to deface
and spoil as pure a piece of marble as was ever struck from
an Italian quarry? Never! She was too true a anotherr, had
too high an appreciation of her duties and privileges, to lcave
such a sweet task to strangers, however willing or skilled the
workman. She felt that nature had done much in forming
the physical frame, and a kind Providence more in furnishing
a mind of extraordinary beauty and purity, and as it grew,
and she saw it shaping itself under her touch to the model,
she felt all the pride and pleasure which the artist feels as
he sees the rough stone moulding to the perfection of his
model. Hence her pleasure was at home. The information
which books impart were of course not neglected, but it
came in incidentally, and not regarded as the primary object
of education; only as an auxiliary-a means to a great end.
In this she was not aided by her husband. Col. Clarkson
loved his family, was extremely kind to, and fond of all, but
he was idolatrously attached to Agnes. And he always
seemed to think of her as the beautiful little angel that
looked up to him and smiled in his face, as he kneeled by
her cradle and bent over her in the first years of his wedded
life. If she had been less pure and single-minded as she
grew up, his mind would have been awakened from that
dream of other years, and he would have bestowed some
thought upon her necessary culture. But as it was, she con-
tinned innocent and beautiful as in infancy, and the charm
had never been broken. For this preservation of infantile
loveliness and gentleness, Agnes was in a great measure in-
debted to her mother. The time, however, was approaching

}
t


56 .       PLAYING FOR, AMIX$EMENT.

when the mother felt the necessity of transferring this Itabor
'of love to other hands. Twelve months and more had passed
since their return to the Bluffs, and Agnes was fast verging
to womanhood; and the mother deemed it due to her daughter,
relitetant as she was to resign the charge, that she should be
sent to some school where she would derive much greater
advantages in the mere science of education than could be
had at home. But this determination was not arrived at by
the mother until she saw the character so well formed., and
the mind so far developed, that there was nothing left for the
schoolmaster 'to do but to fill the vase with such flowers as
could be gathered from the lull of science. Having culti-
vated and formed hqr mind thus far, the going ~-to school was
bat another step in her own system, and hence, when the
proper time came for it to' be taken, she was prepared for it.
Not so, however, with the father. He was therefore' aroused
as if from a dream, when, one afternoon in autumn, as they
sat in the broad piazza, the sun flinging a gorgeous flood of
light into the lap of the beautiful landscape spread out before
the city, she approached him and said:
"It is time we thought of sending Agnes to school."
He turned to look at her, reading at the other end of the
gallery; and as he looked, she grew, grew, grew into a
woman before hini! He had only thought of her as a child;
the sweet babe that smiled on him fifteen years ago, in the
morning of life; the child that first lisped to him with baby
breath, "Papa I" and taught him how dear it ~as to have
some helpless thing to protect. His other children grew up
like those of other people, and he formed plans for them;
thought of what was proper to be done with and for theni,
when they grew up to manhood. But Agnes, "little Agues,"
was his first-born babe; and though fifteen years had sprin-
kled his head and chin with gray, she was still his first-born,
his babe, his "little Agnes ;" and so long as she was "little

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT,                 57
Agnes" he could not grow old: his heart was still young,
and in the cradle of "little Agnes " and his wife, who was
Mrs. Clarkson to the world, was Amy to him; the Amy of
younger years; the Amy he used to attend in the pleasant
walks, whirl with in the dance, and. kneel with in the same
pew at church, and recite the prayers from the same book;
the Amy he led to the altar, and vowed to love, cherish, and
protect, when all was youth an~1 hope, light, and life, and
love. How long it seemed, as he looked back! As he
looked, she was "little Agnes" no longer. There she was,
nearly a woman, and he passed the meridian of life! The
heart stood still, and trembled upon the verge before it mus-
tered courage to leap the gap of years. Fifteen years!
ITow quickly they had passed, and how silently and surely
they had borne him away from the morning of his life!
While "little Agnes" wa~ "little Agnes," it w~s ever pre-
sent; but now that she was no longer "little Agnes," and
the dear scenes of the past, hallowed by a thousand sweet
associations, were receding, receding, still receding, and
memory, reaching out her withered arm in vain to stay them,
like the child that stands upon the bank of the stream, and
cries, "B ring back my flowers," he could have sat himself
down and wept.
He walked the gallery to and fro for some time in silence.
How busy was memory spreading out and adjusting before
him the days and the years gone by! He at last turned and
said:
"You are right, Amy. Strange I had not thought
of it before. I have never thought of her as other than
our child, our first-born; and you must excuse me if the
surprise, the new feeling that she is no longer a cl~ild, and is
soon to be our successor in scenes dear to memory, made me
slow in giving you an answer. The feeling is new, and pain-
ful as new; newer even, than the tinsel and folly of some


58      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

of our friends, and without the glitter and the power to
please." lie resumed his walk, stopped, and said:
"When we were married, sixteen years ago, I had a
laudable ambition for distinction in my profession, and the
fairest of prospects, equal, if not superior to that of any of
my acquaintances; and here, at the age of forty-one, I stand,
humiliated before the wife I have disappointed! IDo nut say
deceived! No, thank God! I have not acted deceptively!
I have foolishly hoped that the child would always be a
child; and keep me young; keep me at the starting-point of
life, where I could commence anew the race of life, when-
ever it suited me to shake loose from my lethargy, brought
on by luxury and idleness, and which has made me as un-
productive ~s the 'fat weed that rots on Lethe's wharf!'"
Mrs. Clarkson was alarmed. She was a woman of fine
sense, and still finer qualities: one at whom ~a stranger would
turn to look, if passed in a crowd. She spoke but few words,
and they were to the point. The course of life her husband
had chosen to pursue, had been a matter of deep regret; and
she had done all she could, in the earlier part of her married
life, to give it a different direction ;and when her efforts
proved vain, she applied her energies to avoid the Jiazards
and evils with which such a life was beset. her good sense
told her that the worst thing to fear, at his time of life, sur-
rounded by temptation and danger as he was, was ~ernorse.
She saw him standing upon a precipice; and into the deep,
dark gulf beyond, she would not permit herself to look.
iRemorse was all that was needed to make him leap headlong
into it. It was too late for him to gather up what sixteen
years of luxury and dissipation in the prime and vigor of
life had scattered. Sixteen years of total obliviousness to a
profession well learned, it is true, but never practh~ed, had
sped by, carrying with them the profession; and one could
'no more be recalled than the other; and that incentive to

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                59
exertion whicl~i could inspire a resolution to begin anew, was
wanting. Better, therefore, that he should continue as he
was, the careless, idle ,man of pleasure, and of the world,
than something worse. Better drink on, as a matter of good
cheer, than drink to drown memory; better bet to count the
game, than to win back his youth and youthful hopes and
aspirations. She saw the danger, and threw herself, with all
a woman's fortitude, between him and the great abyss
beyond. She would persuade him that his life had not been
barren.
"You have made me happy, at least," she said. He kissed
her forehead. "That was one object of your ambition.
You have not only~not deceived, but you have not disap-
pointed me. Success in yoar profession would only have
given wealth, which we did not need; and political success,
once an object of ambition with you, was never desired by
me. Its laurels are but a crown of thorns to the wearer.
One would have wor~i out your frame, to aectunulate what
we did not need, an4 the other would have worn out your
morals, for that whicl~ would have supplanted your wife and
children in your affections. Then, my dear husband, as you
love mc, do not regret the past; do not so much as look at
it !" And she looked into his fa.ce with an anxious, pleading
look, that was peculiar to her. It was not a care-worn, sad,
or melancholy look, but a blending of them all; such as
may be seen in - the face of "Mary," in the picture of the
Crucifixion, where she leans upon the shoulder of John,
"the beloved disciple," and looks anxiously into the face of
her Saviour, as he is about being nailed to the cross. Mr.
Clarkson placed his arm over her shoulder, drew her hand
around him, and walked the gallery back and fro for a long
while in silence, and finally took his hat and went down
town. She looked after him with a swelling, beating heart.

R4


60         PtAYING FOI~, AMUSEMENT.

* CHAPTER VII.
0 God of Jacla, scatter all those clouds!
1{ACINE.

HE did not return to tea. Night came on, and he still
did not come. The children were put to' bed, and went to
sleep; he still had not come. She took up her prayer-book,
and then her Bible, and read; laid them down, walked to the
window and door, and looked; but he still had not come.
She went out and walked the gallery, and listened. list!
She hears a footstep; it is his! 11cr heart beats: she can
scarcely hear the walking. It comes nearer; it is steady.
Thank God! he is sober, and her fears are groundless. No;
she is mistaken: the step passes the gate, and, goes on. She
walks to the gate, and leans upon it, and looks down the
street. All is still. She returns and walks the gallery. 0,
how her heart aches! Something must be the matter: he
must be ill! and gets her bonnet, determined to go in search
of him: but, pshaw! why think so? Has he not remained
out later than this many a night before? She lays aside her
bonnet, takes up her book, and tries again to read; but the
letter~ swim before her, and she reads without knowing what
she reads. She looks at 'the children; they are comfort-
able; looks out at the servants' hall ;~all is still there; they
have gone to bed, and are asleep. The lights in the Louses
of the neighbors around are all extinguished, and the in-
mates asleep; the moon has sunk far to the west, and seems
preparing for repose in the lap of the landscape which shone

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                 61
0
so lovely in the soft sunlight of the afternoon, and still he
had not come. Tho tramp of many feet is at last heard.
What can it mean? (Jan he be killed, and they bearing his
body to her? They approach nearer, open the gate, and,
tramp along the gravel walk. Her limbs tremble; she is un-
able to move; they step upon the gallery; she hears his
voice! Then he is not dead! She opens the door, and
those who are supporting him let go, and, with a hiccough, he
reels, and falls into her arms. She utters no reproaches to
him, nor to the companions of his revel, but, with their
assistance, conveys him to bed, where he sleeps off his
debauch.
He awoke next day as all newly-made drunkards do, with
a severe pain in the head, and bodily prostration, and deeply
mortified, and formed a mental resolve never to be guilty of
such excess again, and lays all the blame on the brandy,
avowing that he had not drunk more than upon previous
occasions, when he had, not felt it. This was partly true;
for the excited state of his mind, when he began to drink,
gave a double power to the liquor. For several days after,
he avoided temptation, and abstained from cards and brandy.
During that time, the sending of Agnes to school was fully
diseu~sed, and a school selected, which was one of the oldest
and best-endowed in the Union.
At the earnest request of Agnes, backed by the wishes of
Mrs. Clarkson, who wished to draw her husband as far as
possible from the. influence of the clubs, it was agreed that
the time needed in preparing Agnes for school should be
spent at the plantation, a new residence having been erected
in place of the one burned down. As soon as it was deter-
mined upon, Agnes approached her father, and asked:
"Pa, will you please give n~e two hundred and fifty
dollars, and not ask what want with it ?"
"Why, that is a strange request, my daughter."


PLAYING FOR A. TISEMENT.
Well, never mind, dear papa; will you give me the
money ?"
"Yes, if you say so. Thinking of your old gray-haired
friend at the Bend, eh ?"
"Thank you, my father;" and she threw her arms
around his neck, and kissed him.
It was determined that they would not return until in the
ensuing fall; and it took some ten days or two weeks in
making preparations to leave for the plantation. This thing
was to be attended to, and the shopping to be done; and
Agnes had her two hundred and fifty dollars to spend; a
novelty to her, as she had never made purchases or been in
trading-shops before. Things all done, and purchases made,
they left for the "Bend," and found all to their liking.
A day or two after their arrival, Mr. and Mrs. Clarkson,
in an evening walk, visited the negro burying-ground, and
were surprised and pleased to see a neat little paling fence
around the grave of good old Aunt Fanny, and; standing at
the head of the grave a handsome tombstone, with the fol-
lowing inscription upon it:
SACRED TO THE MEMORY
or
AUNT FANNY
WHO WAS BURNED TO DEATh, NOVEMBER -, 18-; A MARTYR
TO hIE~ LovE FOR HER FOSTER - DAUGhTER,
"LITTLE AGNES,"
IN TIER VAIN EFFORT TO RESCUE HER FROM THE FLAMES, AND WHO
NOW PAYS THIS HUMBLE TRIBUTE TO TIER MEMORY AND
MORAL WORTII.
The secret of th~ two hundred and fifty dollars was ex-
plained.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

63

The Hermit had resumed his solitary habits, as silent and
impenetrable as ever. There Agnes found him~ and joined
again in his walks. From his abstraction, she feared that
she had lost her place in his affections; that his heart had
only opened to close more tightly. He noticed her anxiety,
and reassured her, by pressing his lips to her forehead; the
first time he had offered an endearment of the kind. It was
something for her to carry with her to school, and to recall,
when, worried with study, she should steal away from her
companions and her books, to think of home and friends,
and the strange, mysterious being who had taken such pos-
session. of her heart and imagination, and in whom she had
inspired an interest for herself as extraordinary as it was
deep and unexpected; an interest which made him peril life,
and endure the most excruciating bodily suffering, to rescue
her from a most awful death; a danger fr6m which her own
parents, dearly as they loved her, shrank appalled.
The day of her departure soon came, and the negroes all
gathered at the house, to tell her "good-bye ;" and their un-
couth expressions of sorrow, though affecting, were as gro-
tesque as they were heartfelt. The parting from her mother
was the hardest trial to both. Although Mrs. Clarkson had
been the first to propose her leaving for school, when the day
of separation came, she felt it to be more than she could
bear; and nothing but a strong sense of duty nerved her to.
it. In her cradle she had watched her infancy, nursed and
nurtured her, and guided her steps to the verge of woman-
hood; and then to give her to the direction of another, was
a trial her woman~s heart could not think of with dry eyes.
She folded the sweet, trusting child to her bosom, pressed
her long and hard, sighed deeply, turne~i, and, catching hold
of the door, saved herself from 4lhing. She threw herself
upon the bed, buried her face in her hands, and lay motion-
less as death, without a word, without a tear, without a sob I
Li


64      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                           PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

65

How, long she had lain in that condition, she did not know,
when she felt a little soft arm steal gently around her ncck,
and her little son of eight years laid his head beside hers,
and wept. His affection for his mother was beautiful and
simple; and having seen her retreat to her room, and his
own cry ended, he went silently into his mother's roomy and,
after waiting until he could stand it no longer, crawled
quietly up beside her, and put his little arm around her neck,
and nestled his head down beside hers. This touching ex-
pression of sympathy from her child had the effect to start
the flow of tears, and relieved the oppression about the heart.
When she arose, the boat was out of sight.
When placed aboard f the boat, Agnes took her stand
where she could see her h me, and that of her friend, dear as
home. As far as she coul see the Hermit, he was walking up
and down his old path alo g the river bank. "How lo~ng,"
she asked herself, "before II shall again join him? how long
before I shall see my dear, dear mother ?" And as the Bend
and loved ones were cbs d to view, she retired to her state-
room, to weep away the first sad hours of separation.
Dr. Floyd had requested Col. Clarkson to take charge of
Robert Hamilton, and leave him at college; and when the
Colonel and Agnes got aboard of the boat, they found Robert
on board. As Clarkson had no acquaintances on the boat,
for a day or so he spent his time with Robert and Agnes, and
took little or no notice of the game, which never seemed to
cease, d~y nor night. A gentleman of his agreeable manners
could not be on a boat long without making acquaintances,
and he was much pleased with a very modest, pleasant ac-
quaintance he made on the second day after getting aboard.
The efforts of his new acquaintance, who was himself a father,
and on his way to visit his only daughter at school, so he
said, to wean his thoughts from painful channels, were so
well timed and unobtrusive as to gain Clarkson's regard, and

awaken a disposition to extend the acquaintance. They
exchanged cards, and Clarkson was pleased to find him a
member of a large and respectable commission house in New
Orbeans-a silent partner. Like Clarkson, he had not taken
a hand in the game, though often solicited to do so. He
seemed to know every body on board, and all seemed to know
him; and his declining to join in the game was more from an
indisposition to play at the time, than any scruple of con-
science. He took occasion to let Cob. Clarkson know that he
sometimes, played for amusement, but only for amusement,
and bet to count the game; but abhorred the vice of gam-
bling. It so changed, either by design or accident, that one
afternoon a game could not be made up without Cob. Clarkson
and his new friend would take a hand; and as time seemed to
hang heavily with them, they joined in the game. All the
players were severe in their condemnation of gamblers.......pro
fessional blackbegs-b~it all bet, and bet high. The game
soon became deeply interesting, and Col. Qlarkson was so
much absorbed by it, that when notified by the Captain that
supper was on the table, he got Robert to attend Agnes to
the table, and continued the game. Supper was eaten and
the table cleared away, and the game still continued; the
passengers one by one went to bed, and Agnes waited in vain
for her rather's accustomed "good-night:" the game still con-
tinued. She sat down, a solitary watcher, in the door of the
ladies' cabin. Seconds lengthened into minutes, and minutes
into hours, and her father did not come to bid her good-night.
She knew he was excited more than common; he talked loud,,
and quick, and angry, and sometimes swore; it was the first
time she had ever heard him swear, and at dead of night and
in her anxious state of mind, it sounded doubly horrible,
doubly blasphemous! She could stand it no longer, and,
moved by an impulse she could not control, and a feeling she
did not stop to analyze, she walked down the cabin; past the
3

64


PLAYING POR AMUSEMENT.

66       PLAYING Pea AMUSEMENT.

long row of sleepers, to the card-table, took hold of the cards
in her father's hand, and looked him imploringly in the face.
His first glance at her was one of stern defiance and rebuke;
but, there was a charm, a halo about the face of the angelic
girl, as she looked at him with a volume of unspoken prayers
and entreaties, that overcame him, and his look softened; he
yielded the cards, rose, and suffered her to lead him to his
state-room, where he kissed her and retired.
Her vigils had not been all alone, as she supposed.
Robert had watched, unseen, from his own room, the progress
of the game, with little if any less interest than Agnes her-
self, and saw her, like some fairy spirit of love, move down
the long, dimly lighted cabin, and blessed her. As she
passed to her room, he whispered a soft "good-night," that
lightened the dreams of the dear girl's anxious heart.
Col. Clarkson awoke the next morning to a full conscious-
ness of his folly. And to the mortification of having pained
a daughter he would give his right arm to shield from harm,
he found that in betting to count the game, he had counted
to a; parcel of gambling sharks about eight thousand dollars;
and, but for the timely interference of his daughter, he might
have beggared himself and her. He felt the pecuniary loss
the more, as 1~ie had drawn the money from his merchant,
upon the .fai ~t of his crop, intending, after purchasing his
plantation supplies and paying Agnes's school-bill, to invest
the balance iii negroc~s, while in Virginia; now he would be
compelled to ~ubmit to a heavy discount, to raise in Louisville
the funds rec~uired to meet the demands of his plantation,
and defray his and his daughter's expenses. When, there-
fore, he saluted Agnes in the morning, he was a sadder, and,
to a limited extent at least, a better man. Noticing that
Agnes was about to speak, he interrupted her:
~C1 know what you would say, my daughter, and I deserve
more than you would say, but I cannot bear it now."

67

"I was not going to say any thing bad, Pa."
"Well, what did you i~rish to say, my child ?"
"0 Pa! .1 never heard you Swear before !" and leaned
weeping upon his shoulder.
"And you shall never hear me again, my darling child."
Brushing away the tears that gathered fast to his eyes, he
turned and walked away. It was the last card he played,
and the last night's sleep she lost on his account during th~
remainder of their journey.
Agnes was so fortunate as to meet at school Alice St. Cloud,
the only daughter of a widowed mother, a resident of Bluff
City, but who was at that time staying near her daughter
while at school, having no particular tie at home. Mrs. St.
Cloud was a lady of great force of character, and of high
moral worth, and Alice was as pure in heart as she was
faultless in face. She was a year or so older than Agnes,
but only in years. She was small in stature, but perfect in
shape; her complexion was a clear, transparent white, and
looked like wax-work; her hair was long and black, and
glossy as the raven's wing, and her eyes were black and clear
as glass, and looked as if set in a snow-heap. She was as in-
nocent, unaffected, and happy as a child. To see her was to
love her; to know her was to idolize. She was not deficient
in any thing, but never studied; no one expected her to
study. she never knew a lesson; no one expected her to:
she never got a bad mark at school; no one expected her to:
she never did any thing right, and yet she could do nothing
wrong; if any thing wrong was done, and it was discovered
that Alice did it, it was all right. She loved everybody and
every thing, and everybody loved her in return. She was
guileless as an infant, and her motion was the very personifica
tion of grace itself.
As the two young ladies were from the same place, it was
an easy matter to grant Col. Clarkson's request that they

66


0    PLAYING FOR AMtJSEMENT

PLAYIEMENOT

should be permitted to occupy a room together, and to see as
much of Mrs. St. Cloud, who had tgken lodgings at a private
house with a view of making it "h me" until her daughter's
education was finished, as was cons stent with the rules of
the school, but to visit no one else. The good fortune of
Agnes in meeting such friends at se ool, lifted from his heart
a load of anxiety.
The days passed wearily enough (vith Mrs. Clarkson, wait--
ing her husband's return. When the time came for her
to expect him home, she would sit upon the gallery step, and
look until her eyes grew weary and .dim. Her little son
would seat himself beside her, and, while she gazed steadfastly
up the river, he gazed steadfastly into her face ; the two
forming a life-picture none but a Raphael could trace. One
evening, when she had, been looking longer than usual, and
would run her hand from time to time across her eyes to
brighten them, or remove the gathering film, the darling
little fellow, with the sweetest niiivet6 possible, planted his
elbow upon his knee, and, resting his chin in his hand, said :
"You go in the house, dear Mamma, and rest your sweet
eyes, and I'll stay here and watch for Pa."
The mother put her arm around him, and rested her chin
on his head, and suffered the big, warm tears to stand and
smoke upon her cheek, a sweet incense fresh from the heart
to Heaven, in gratitude for two such children.
Col. Clarkson's return, and the favorable report from
Agnes, relieved much of the mother's anxiety. And his free
and full confession of his great folly-he would not call it
otherwise-lightened the grief which such a folly would
naturally enough occasion. The loss of the money was a
sufficient excuse for her to urge their remaining upon the
plantation the balance of the season. The careless, do-
nothing habits of his neighbors, most of whom were his
equals in natural and acquired attainments, being men of

reduaon and setravel, would, she though-t, save him froth
thamotreatnd efreproach which she regarded as the rocke
reman traedto wreck all her hopes. lie consented to

K

68


PLAYING FOlI~ AMUSEMENT.

70

CHAPTER VIII.
The worhi 's all title-page; there's no contents.
YOUNG.
AFTER Clarkson's return to Bluff City early in the spring,
he joined some friends in a visit to New Orleans. He took
passage upon the steamer Belle Creole, under the conimand
of a loud-talking, high-living, card-playing Captain, who was
as generous in his feelings as he was loose in his morals, and
who, notwithstanding his dissolute habits, was one of the
most popular Captains on the river; with all classes, men,
women, and children, married auc single; though his love
of wine, cards, and women, was as notorious as his boat was
popular. Every comfort and lux ry was provided the pas-
sengers, and a trip to New Orlean lost half its pleasure if
taken in any other than this popu ar steamer. The playing
on board was incessant; the card- ables wore never vacant;
no other amusement was thought of, except perhaps a dance
on the part of the younger passengers at night, to the music
of a splendid brass-band, hired by the Captain for the season.
Among the older menit was play, play, play. It was play
in the morning, play in the evening, play at night, play all
night, or nearly so, and bet, bet, bet. But no gambling!
If a stranger was introduced and "took a hand," and it was
suspected that he played for money and bet to win, though
his bets were not half so hirge as others, they soon "froze
him out" and cut his acquaintance. The playing was nothing,

71
the betting was nothing, the Winning and losing were nothing;
one could play as mush as he pleased, 'bet as much as he
pleased, win and lose as much as he pleased, but he must do
it for the love of it; that was not gambling , not immoral!
It did not exclude him from good society; it~
was a fair mark
of a gentleman, an aliiiost indispensable passport to their
society; and they held 'the keys to the "best society" at
home; were controllers of business, made and unmade alder-
men, and manufactured public Opinion; but let him use the
game for its legitimate purpose-the purpose for which it
was invented-to win money, and as soon as he. was detected,
he fell under the ban, though his winnings or losings were
not one-tenth part of theirs. The playing went on, and
Captain, Clerk, Pilots, iVilate, and deck-hands were all in-
terested, and many of the officers took hands. Those of the
passengers who did not take hands, stood around and looked
on. No gambling, but the highest sort of bettino~! No note
was taken of time; the boat would stop, but no one knew it;
would start, on again, but no one knew it. The Captain
mlo'
0ht walk, or turn toward the bow and look, it was not
noticed. The bell rings, dong, dong; no one hears it. ~A
strange bell rings, dong, dong, but no one hears it. A tre-
mendous crash! The tables and players are upset! The
women scream, and all run out to learn the cause of~ the crash.
The Belle Creole had come in collision with the passenger
steamer "Bosphorus," and ran her bow into the hull of the
latter, sinking her immediately, drowning some hundred or
more of her passengers and crew; the result of cards and
brandy! Every effort was made by the "Belle Creoh~" and
her crew to save the drowning passengers of the ill-fated
vessel, and a number were picked up from the water.
Frank Vaughan, who was aboar&amp; of the "Belle Creole"-
but, to his honor be it said, participated to a very limited ex-
tent in the game, only taking an absent player's hand at

PLAYING FOR A MU SIME NT.

71


72          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
times-saw a gentleman who had been saved from the wreck
of the "Bosphorus," dripping with water and shivering with
cold, near the rear stove. The stranger was in undress
military suit, and possessed- a handsome person, sported a
moustache, had a foreign accent, and was about Frank's size.
Whether prompted by a generous impulse, or by the unfor-
tunate man's good looks and military air-Frank was fond of
military men-he tendered him the use of his wardrobe and
purse.
"Ah, me une grande unfortunate! Me tank you," said
the stranger; and drawing a wet card from his vest-pocket,
handed it to Frank. What was the latter's astonishment
and delight to read, "Don John de Castro de Navidad I"
Here was a prize! the live son of a live Duke! Frank was in
ecstasies. He forced the Duke to share his purse and wear
his best suit, which fitted neatly. itt was soon noised over
the b6at that Frank Vaughan had picked up a live Duke out
of the water; and the excitement and desire to see him was
as great as if he had been a mermaid or the sea-horse. The
ladies were especially excited and eager to see him. The
anxiety of mothers with marriageable daughters, Mrs.
Corbin in particular, was excruciating~
Frank learned from Don John that he was bearer of dispatches
from the ~-overnment of Mexico to that of* the United States,
and was on his way to Washington when the sad accident
happened which secured him the pleasure of Frank's ac-
quaintance, [Frank bowed,] and that all his baggage, con-
taining his dispatches, letters of credit, and money, was lost.
Frank ran his hand into his pocket, pulled out his pocket-
book, and pressed -the Duke to take it. But no; he was
modest; w~uld only take what would serve his present pur-
pose, which Frank thought was very little, but which, if
given to a beggar in rags, would have been thought by
him enormous. Frank was the envy of the whole boat, and,

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                 73
in the estimation of the ladies, was second only to Don John
himself. He grew in his own estimation, as well as in that
of others. The other young men, seeing the Duke using
Frank's money, and wearing his clothes, could have thrown
the latter overboard, from pure envy.
When the company arrived in New Orleans, a distin..
gushed officer of the United States Army was holding his
levee at the St. Charles, and Clarkson and his friends had of
Course to pay their respects to him. There was a large and
rather distingu6 company present, and Frank's heart beat
with proud emotions as he announced, and was about to intro-
duce to the officer, Don John de Castro de Navidad. At the
apnounceinent, the officer turned, and the young Duke
rushed forward, and, seizing him by the hand, said, with his
eye sparkling with enthusiasm:
"Me no need te introduction to te prave man, te prave
soltier! Me see him in te battle! Me see him tare, mit his
sword gleaming' in te sun, and his hair streaming' in te win',
and he say to te soldier, 'Come on; tish ish te way to victory,'
and not, 'Tat ish te way to victory!' Ali, sare, me receive une
pad wound tere! Me never recover ;" putting his hand to
his breast, to mark the place of the wound.
"Ah, my dear sir, I am glad to see you," said the o~cer,
shaking him warmly by the hand, and flattered by the deli-
cate compliment. "Ii recollect, now that you mention it,
of hearing that a son - of the Duke de Castro fell, danger-
ously wounded, at the head of his column, when gallantly
leading it into action; and, now that I see you, I recognize
you as the same. Allow me to sympathize with you, and
hope that your wound is not so serious ~syou apprehend."
"Me tank you, sare; me tank you; ~ut me no recover,"
putting his hand again to his wound. "Ah, me meet une
grande ac~iden'! Te poat sink, and me lose all me tis~


74          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
patch to Yashington, and when inc return to me Govermen,
me pe pehead."
"Impossible, sir! Your Government cannot be so cruel!
I am acquainted with your- chief magistrate, and with the
general in command; and I will write and explain what has
occurred; and if the President should not listen to me, the
General will; and I will interest him in your behalf. And,
in the meantime, you must not think of travelling in your
present feeble health; and I insist upon your going tfo my
country - seat, and remaining until you recover from the
effect of your accident. Important business* engagements
will prevent inc from attending you, but you will receive a
hearty welcome, and must make yourself at home."
"Tank you, sare; tank you. Put me Govermen' no like
your Govermen'; me government' no take excuse. Pui~ me
accep' your hospital."
(CAllow me to shake hands with you," said an old volun-
teer soldier, who had fought in the wars, waking up, and e~-
tending his Ihand. "I recollect you perfectly. I saw you
when you fell."
me hones' fren'; me take une trink mit you. Te
prave soldier make te prave officare."
At all this Frank was nearly beside himself. The only
drawback was the fear it inspired that the shadow of the
Duke might fall upon some one else. But, then, was he not
wearing his cloak, and using his money? He was-all saw
that-and making as if he was at home with both, just as a
Duke ought. His fears were groundless; for the Duke had
taken quite a liking to him, and accepted him as his com-
panion in all his walks and rides about the city, and visits to
the theatres and other places of amusSment and fashionable
resort; and took pains upon all public occasions to recognize
him as hi~ friend, and openly expressed his gratitude for the

PLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.              75
favors received. At each expression of the sort, Prank
would run his hand deeper into his pocket for his purse, and
press it on the Duke. Of course be could not think of
doing less than pay for all the tickets, omnibus hire, hotel
bills, and furnish money for the Duke to lose at cards; for the
Duke had as good a right to lose money at cards as Col. Clark-
son, Dr. Floyd, and others; and if he expected to visit Bluff
City, and enjoy the advantage of their society, he must take
a lesson or twb before he came.
In IP'rank's laudable effort to monopolize the wants and
extravagances of the Duke, he had a dangerous rival in Mrs.
Corbin. As these favors of the Duke were in the market,
she determined to bid high-make a desperate cast of the
die. At one time a neat, little, sweetly perfumed note was
placed in the Duke's hand:
"The compliments of Mrs. and Miss Corbin. Mrs~ C.
would be pleased to have the pleasure of the Duke's com-
pany in a ride to Lafayette Square, at three o'clock P. M.,
in her pVivate carriage."
There were pretty cupids all over the note-paper. At
another tune, the ladies desired his company in a game of
whist;" at another time, to the Opera, in a "private box."
And Miss Clara went so far as to try her splendid diamond
ring on his soft, white, handsomely4apered finger. It fitted
so well, and graced the aristocratically small haid so much,
that it was left there. His jewelry, except his ducal ring,
which he never wore, had been lost with his dispatches; ar~d
but for his temporary poverty, which he never knew un~il
that moment what it was to regret, it would have afforded
him the most exquisite pleasure of his life to exchange
diamonds with her. She was delighted; would have given
a whole mine of diamonds for another such a speech. Mrs.
Corbii~ began to feel strong in her position. The Duke
would not wear Clara's ring under such circumstances, if he
/
I
,,1


76          pLAYING FOR AMIJ$EMENT.
was not pleased with her! His attentions, too, were d e-
cidedly marked! Frank grew more and ,more uneasy. He
saw that it was useless competing with a woman, and such a
woman as Mrs. Corbin, who h~d conquered her husband long
before his death, and had him tame and tractable as a farm-
horse; especially with her handsome daughter, with b er
girlish ways, thrown in. So he wisely concluded that the
best thing he could do was to compromise, and take the
Duke as partnership stock, and pay his expenses in shares,
and thus rule out all other bidders. As Frank had no
maiden relatives to interfere in his behalf; and as in the
event of a failure to captivate the Duke, Frank might con-
ceal from the world the mortification and disappointment of
the family, by taking the hand which the Duke refused, Mrs.
Corbin accepted a compromise. Frank, pleased with the
compromise, did not stop to inquire the process of reasoning
by which she assented to it.
The advantage of the partnership to Mrs. Corbin was
soon made apparent; for, when, the Duke took advantage of
the officer's kind invitation to visit his country-seat, Mrs.
Corbin could not of course attend him, and she had to in-
trust every thing to her partner.
Her s~isp~nse, though great, was not of long duration; for
the Duke soon tired of country life, and sighed for more
tender nursing and sympathy than sCrvants could give, and
yielded to the earnest solicitations of Frank to visit Bluff
City.
What an event was his visit to the nabobs and nabobesses
about town! What toasting and fea~ting, and feasting and
toasting! What wining and dining, and dining and wining!
*
The carriage he rode in, the chair he sat on, the spoon
he sipped with, a~d the knife he atd with, were all sacred
for life from that moment. Miss Clara would butter
his waffle, Miss -- light his cigar, Miss - make his

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                77
toddy, and Mrs. Corbin and Clara prepare ointments for his
wound! And so jt went. Frank was so beside himself
with delight, that he needed some one to sit up with him.
Young ladies that he barely knew, and who he once thought
were disposed to snub him, would meet him in the street-.
he was fbnd of meeting ladies there, and who is not, espe-
cially if rich and pretty ?-and they would accost him:
"Why, Mr. Vaughan, how do you do? I am so glad to
see you! I understand you have been to New Orleans
lately."
"Yes; thank you; just returned from a short visit to the
city ;" bowing politely, and stroking his chin.
"You must come and see us. It has been a long time
since I have had the pleasure of seeing you."
"Thank you; I will take great pleasure in calling;
nothing will give me more pleasure."
"I understand you met with a new acquaintance on your
trip ?"
"Yes; thank you."
"The young Duke de Castro 7"
"Yes, ma'am; bearer of dispatches to our Government."
"So I heard. You must bring your friend around with
you.,~
"Thank you; I will do so."
They separate mutually happy; he that a Duke is thought
to be his friend, and they at the near prospect of having a
Duke in the house.
Frank was fond of exercise, and whenever he could com-
mand the Duke's time, which was not as often as he wished,
as private carriages and footmen were always at his service,
he would hire the finest buggy and the finest pair of bob-tail
ponies he could get, and go it at a "two forty" pace through
town; up one street and down another; cross over, and dash
ahead. At such times, each window-pane had a pair of


pLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

bright eye~ at it; and if he passed a neighborhood where
the -eyes iere not at the windows, he would take it for
granted that the residents did not know he and the Duke
were passing, and would ride around that way again, at a
slower pace; but when he would see a little negro or one of
the children look at him, and turn and run in the house, to
carry the news of his and the Duke's proximity, the bob-tails
would- dart forward at break-neck speed.

C HA PT E R I X.

Confused, above,
Glasses and bottles, pipes and gazetteers,
As if the table even itself was drunk,
Lie, a wet, broken scene; and wide below
Is heaped the social slaughter; where astride
The lubber power in filthy triumph sits,
And steeps them drenched in potent sleep till miorn.
Perhaps some doctor, of tremendous paunch,
Awful and deep, a black abyss of drink,
Outlives them all.

IT was announced that Mr. Broadhead, a retired merchant
prince, with a fashionable wife and marriageable daughters,
intended giving a grand party in :compliment to the Duke ;
and the cards were issued several days beforehand, that all
might have full time to do honor to his distinguish ed guest, by
the newness and expense of their attire; for of course it was
not expected that anybody would wear to see a Duke what they
had ever worn to see anybody el e ; so time had to be given for
each one to prepare for this important event. The company was
to be select, and the town was all agog. Those who had new
carriages, new horses, new footmen, and new respectability,
were of course invited, and crowded the streets and dry-goods
shops. Large gaps were made i the dry-goods shelves and
the husbands' purses; the needles~of maritua-mnakers, and cash,
were made to fly-sewing-machines were noti then invented.
The servant that carried the card-basket, passed by Piper's

78

79


80          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
without stopping. "The girls" and Betsy thought nothing
of it, and cared less; but Piper's nostrils spread and nose
flattened and under-lip drooped, and he exhausted his trad-
ing qualities to the utmost to bargain for invitations, but in
vain. Mr. Broadhead was very polite, but seemed not to
know that Piper had daughters; and neither Gilpin nor
Piper could force conviction upon him.
The eve1~ing came, and there were no vacant seats. It was
one of the parties where all who were desired came. It dif-
fered from other parties upon like occasions, only in the cx-
~essive outlay and extravagant display of every thing. new:
the silver waiters were new, the cake-stands were new,
goblets were new, the forks were new, the champagne was
new, cigars new, the furniture was new, the house was new,
the servants were new, the manners of the host and hostess
were new, the guest was new; every thing one saw, every
thing one touched, every thing one tasted was new. But the
newness of every thing did not destroy the appetite nor thirst
of the company, and the eating and drinking went on as at
other parties, when eating and drinking are expected. Every-
body had to drink with the Duke, and the Duke had to drink
with everybody; and everybody had to drink with everybody,
and it was kept up until somebody put a "brick" in the hat
of the Duke and everybody. At least so everybody said on
the street the next day.
An amusing occurrence took place the next day in the
dining-room. When Mr. Broadhead Was sufficiently re-
covered from the effects of the new champagne of the night
before to get up, he walked into the room with his gown and
slippers, and addressed his wife~ s serving-maid, who was
asserting the dishes, in order to return such as had been
hired and borrowed.
"Which is the pl~te and knife and fork used by the Duke
last night ?" asked 1~IIr. Broadhead of the servant.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.      81

"Lord, Master, I don't know."
"You huzzy, you! have you gone an.d put them with the
other dishes?"
"Master, I didn't know any better! Thby' was ourn."
"Ourn! I know they were ours! I wanted them kept
separate, so they i~ould , be put away."
"Master, I di~ln't know it. I didn't know his eatin' with'm
made 'em any different."
"Clear out of here, you impertinent~ huzzy, you! If you
speak another word to me, I will-"
The loud talking aroused Mrs. Broadhead, and she came
in with night-cap and gown, and wishes to know-
"What is the matter ?"
"This creature has gone and put the plate and knife, and
fork used by the Duke with the other dishes, and I would
not have had it done for the value of the whole set !"
"My, Sarah! bow could you have done such a thing?"
"Why, Mistress, I didii~'t
"Silence, you thing! Didn't I tell you, if you opened
your mouth, I would ~'
"Why, Mis-"
"Stop." He took her upon the mouth! "Didn't I tell
you not to open your mouth again? what do you know of a
Duke ?"                                I
"Husband! husband! how can you do so? She was only
answering my question !"
"I don't care; I told her not to open her mouth again.
"Dear! see, her mouth is all bleeding !"
The sight of the effect of his violence, though nothing
serious, calmed him down, and he stammered out a sort of
apology to the negro, and left the room.
By dint of rummaging, thinking, comparing, etc., the fork
was identified, and carefully wrapped up in tissue paper and
put away.


82      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                           PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     83

Mrs. Corbin took the alarm. It would never do to allow
Mr. Broadhead to exceed her in paying honors to the Duke,
arid cards were spon issued for a party to be given by Mrs.
Corbin. Her efforts were commensurate with the magnitude
of the occasion; and every thing was as new as the latest
fashion. The only thing which materially distinguished it
from the party given by Mr. Broadhead, was the fainting of
the Duke. The constant round of dissipation which the
hospitality of the place had forced upon him, had aggravated
his wound, and just as every thing was at its tide upon the
evening of the party, he fainted, and, Q! pleasure inexpres-
sible in falling, his head drooped upon Miss Clara's knee!
He was borne to the nearest lounge, which chanced to be in
Miss Clara's room, and she had the additional happiness of
supporting his head and fanning him Almost too much
happiness for one frame to bear. His extreme modesty and
delicacy were such, that he would never allow any one, not
even the physicians whom he consulted, to examine or (Iress
his wound; hence no one would offei~d his delicacy by opening
his bosom to relieve it, while he was in an insensible condi-
tion; though Dr. Floyd and a half dozen other physicians
were there ready to tender their services gratis, and to mark
and lay away for life the instrument that should probe his
wound. All that was done was to open his collar, bathe his
face with Cologne, and fan him. The blood that oozed from
the wound stained the shirt bosom and vest, at the sight of
which Miss Clara felt like fainting, and had a good mind to
do so; it would show such sensibility and sympathy. She
hesitated, and would have fainted outright, but she saw one
of the Miss Broadheads there, and if she fainted they would
fan him. This determined her not to faint.
The fainting of the Duke was all that was wanting to com-
plete Mrs. ~Corbin's happiness and triumph. Not that she
took pleasure in human suffering; on the contrary, she was

a kind-hearted woman enough; but it furnished an excuse
for detaining the Duke at her house for several days, and
Clara would be his constant nurse How pleasing the
thought! What if the party was broken up? What if it
did destroy the enjoyment of the balance of the evening, so
far as her company was concerned? It made no difference,
for the party was not given for their enjoyment. What were
they but fit hecatombs to the divinity in the other room,
with his head upon Clara's knee, and her finest Cashmere
shawl thrown negligently across him! And 0! happiness
too great for mortal enjoyment! fit only for the gods! there
is a stain of blood, Ducal blood, upon the shawl! If the
Duke could have known, as he lay there all pale and languid,
how often in after weeks-we dare not say years, or. even
months, for the passion of fashionable folks is not measured
by time, if of any duration-~the dear creature, who supported
his well-oiled head, and never wearied in fanning him, and
suffered the mosquitoes, that were numerous and ravenous, to
bite away at her well-powdered and polished neck, ad libitum,
for fear an effort to disturb their carnival would disturb his re-
pose, would put her sweet lips to the stained spot and kiss it
over and over again, it must, to some extent, have alleviated
his pain. She had never held her mother's, father's, sister's,
or brother's head in that way, even when raging with fever
~rnd pain; and why should she then sit and let the big
swamp mosquitoes hold their carnival about her neck and
shoulders, supporting the head, and fanning the midnight
hours away, to soothe to sleep this acquaintance of less than
half a moon? And why, in this task, hard as it was, should
she be the envy of all the votaries of fashion, married and
single, in the town? The answer brings a blush to the cheek
of every true lover of Republican simplicity.

82

gg


.1'

84

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

CHAPTER X.
Wolsey: Tanta est erg~ te menus integritas? regina sereflissirna
Q. Katlt: 0, good my lord, no Latin;
*    *    *   *    *    *
Pray, speak in English:
*    *   *    *    *
The willing'st sin I ever yet committed
May be absolved in English.
SHARSIPEAUE.
WHILE the parties and toasting were in full progress, and
everybody run mad with the Duke fever, a Federal officer in
town, noted for his unimpressibility, became slightly affected
with the malady, and was a good deal exercised to know what
he ought to do in the premises. He was a man of stern, un-
compromising morality, and of superior literary attainments,
not surpassed perhaps by any in the State. He eschewed
society, in its general acceptation, almost entirely; conlinin g
himself to the companionship of books and a few friends, to
whom he was much attached, and who took great pleasure in
his companyK His talents and education placed him far
above the eitipty pursuits of the fashionable world, and he
never gave them a thought, but plodded on his even way as
though they were not in existence. Ordinarily, a new arrival
was a matter of the smallest consequence to him, but here
was a distinguished foreigner, a minister from a foreign
court to that of his government, and all the 6lite and aris-

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

85

tocracy of town were feasting and toasting him; and although
he did not care One straw for either the 6lite or aristocracy,
he feW the honor and dignity of the government he repre-
~cnted was in his keeping, and it ought to be maintained;
but how to do ~t with a due regard for the dignity of the
subject and the' sA~allness of his means, was a question which
puzzled arid embarrassed him. A dinner was out of the
question; it would cost more than the salary of his office,
and it would fall so far short of the shine and newness of
those given by others, that it would bring his government
into contempt; and it was a distressing doubt with him,
whether he could dispense with the formality of a dinner,
and invite a few friends to meet the Duke to tea. In his
distress he had recourse to Frank Vaughan, who was sup~
posed to be au fait in all such matters; and besides, as he
was the intimate frie ~d and companion of the Duke, he could
make the matter all ~ght with him, should the affair not
come off secundem ar~em. (Mr. Officer was a scholar, great
on Latin proverbs.)
"Frank," said he one day, "as an officer of the government,
I have thought it perhaps my duty to pay some court to your
friend, the Duke de Castro, he being a minister to our court,
and not knowing exactly what ought to be expected of me
upon an occasion of this sort, I thought I would consult with
you, and get your advice. Quce fuerant vitia, mores sunt, as
Seneca has it, and I am not quite up to the times. What
shall I do?"
"Give a party, by all means. I am glad you have thought
of it."
"Qucerendc&amp; pecunic&amp; primum~; and I do not know where
to get it. Besides, my house is too small."
"Don't be poking your Latin at me! I do not know what
it means. Speak English, and I will answer you."
"Beg your pardon. It means that money must first be


86      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                            PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.      8T

had, and I have not got it-a declaration one does not like
to make in English."
"As to that, I will loan you the money if you wish; though
my deposit has been considerably reduced lately."
"I am obliged to you; and all else settled, I may take ad-
vantage of your kind offer. My house, as I said, is too small,
and, worse tht~n that, I have but little silver, new or old, and
the thought of feeding a Duke, who has not, from his infancy,
known what it was to eat off of any thing newer than tiLmily
plate, old as the invasion of the Moors, with my old iron forks,
cannot be thought of Can I not waive the formality of a
dinner-a party is out of the question-and invite him to
tea? and invite a few of the swells- about town to meet him?
I know, ordinarily, they would not cross their legs under
my cheap cherry, but in this case they would be oblivious
to every thing except the presence of the Duke."
"That gill never do; it will be worse than the forks. Can
you not borrow some plate from some of your friends ?"
"I have no friends who have plate; and if I had I would
not borrow. My friends are either poor or plain."
"I'll borrow some for you."
"Never. My pride would not permit that, if nothing else
interfered."
~tOthers are not ashamed to do it, and do do it."
"That may be: ego ilium pe'riisse duco, cui quiclern periU
pudor. Excuse the Latin."
"I do not know what your Latin means; but if not a
party, a dinner cannot be dispensed with. Let it be that or
nothing."
"Nothing it will have to be then. I 'do not understand
those thitigs; they are out of my line; and as Cicero says:
Ne me pudet, ut istos futeri nescire quod nesciam. Which
means, to translate it for you, 'I am not ashamed, as some
are, to confess my ignorance of what I know nothing about.'

And I also adopt the proverb, Ne tentes aut perfice: which
means, in broad English, 'I will do it well, or I will not do it
at all.'"
"Iu this you are right; though I regret your inability to
show the Duke some attention as a government official."
"I cannot think of imitating some of the higher function-
aries of government, who pay twice the salary of the office
to support the dignity of the place."
"This thing settled, Frank, what are you and the Duke
going to do? He seems very fond of you, and still wears
your cloak, I see."
"He will report himself at Washington, and then return
home; and I will accompany him. His Government will
undertake to behead him, for the loss of his dispatches, and
the consequent failure of a portion of his mission. The loss
of the dispatches will be used as a mere pretext, as only an
excuse is wanted for the purpose of beheading him. His
chivalry and daring, and accurate knowledge of military
tactics and military affairs generally, lave made him a favorite
with the army; and his popular manners have endeared him
to the common people, and his house is one oi' the most
powerful, as one of the most ancient, among the nobility,; and
fears were entertained by Government that if a revolution
should break out, and he remain with the army, it would be
an easy matter to place his father or some member of his
house into the Presidency. His mission, therefore, was only
an excuse to get him out of the country. lie has advised
his friends of his misfortune; a~d they will make arrange~
ments for his safe return to the army; and once there, and
on his guard, he can defy the officers. He Will wait advices
from them, before leaving the United States. For further
precaution, it is agreed that I shall personate him, as we
are the same size, and are said to favor, [stroking his chin.]
K       The chances are that as soon as I land I will be arrested for


$8          PLAYING FOR     MTJSEMENT.
the Duke, and .~ouriers sent forward to the capital to an-
nounce the fact of the arrest. His friends will raise a
great outcry, and thus enable him to escape the vigilance of
Government officials, and at the same time afford to th~in the
means of fomenting an outbreak; and as soon as things are
ripe for action, he will appear at the head of his regiment,
and, with the aid of his friends among the no~ility~ and
the disaffected among the people, always fickle and ready for
a change, he will make a bold strike for the Government.
In the meantime I will try every way in my power to protest
my innocence; show my passport, which they will believe to
be a forgery or an imposition; but, as I will be unable' to
speak th~ language, I will be unable to explain how his ducal
ring and seal, which I am to have, came into my possession,
and how I came by other articles bearing the coat of arms
of his house. When he appears in public, however, Ii will
of course be released, and will threaten to complain to my
Government. The republic will become alarmed, and make
every effort to repair the wron~ inflicted upon me. My
baggage will no doubt have been seized and destroyed; and
I will make a loud complaint of the wrong, and fix: the
damage 1~o inc at a fabulous sum; and the republic, rather, at
that critical junction of affairs, than hazard another cause
of complaint from the United States, will settle the demand.
The Duke is confident of success; and, from information he
ha~ furnished me, I know, in the present disturbed, unsettled
state of the country, he must succeed."
"And what is to be your share of the spoils ?"
"As soon as he or his father is placed in the Presidency,
he engages that I shall have any place in the Government I
may choose ;" stroking his chin, and pushing back his hair.
"And what place will you take ?"
"I think I shall go to the Court of St. 5ames. 1~IIy want
of familiarity with the Spanish tongue would be of no disad-

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

89

vantage to me there; and the court language b~ing my ver-
nacular, I will be able to serve the republic better than a
native. And being rem oved from view, it will relieve,. to
some extent, the jealousy which will naturally enough be
felt by the nobility, at the placing of a stranger over them.
Besidesit will put me out of the way of the dangers of a
revolution, which, with such an unstable government and
fickle people, may be apprehended any day."
"Frank," and he looked quizzically at him, "I always
thought you a little cracked, but I never before believed you
were really non compose meut~s."
"What do you mean, sir ?" bristling up.
"I mean that you are a fool to trust to the specious tale
of this conceited foreigner."
"Do you dare to insinuate that he is not what he pre~
tends to be ?" stretching himself up to his full height, and
assuming a fighting attitude.
"I do not! not at all !" eyeing Frank's fist, and stepping
back a foot or two.
The conversation ended, and Frank was only half satisfied
with himself. But how could he see his vision, his air-castle,
securely based, as he thought, and so ele~ and tastefully
built, tumble to pieces before his eyes, and not make an effort
to prop it up? "Ne sutor ultra crepidarn" caught his ear, as
his friend closed the door, going out.


90      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.       91

CHAPTER XI.
With lynx's eyes we others see, ourselves with moles';
All is excusable in us; in others, naught.
One standard we employ to judge our brother,
But try ourselves by quite another.
A kind Creator has this lesson taught,
That we are travellers; having each one sack
To carry on the breast another on4lie back;
Our own defects in' tha behind we store;
Our neighbor's faults e bear in that before.
LA FONTAINE.
A J5AY or two after Mrs. Corbin's party, the Sabbath bells,
with their loud and solem ding-dong, ding-doug, were call-
ing the citizens of Bluff ity to the temples erected for the
worship of the Great Builder of nature's temple, and the
worshippers of mammon and fashion, together with the truly
pious and good, were wending their way thither, with the
view, let us hope, Qf forgetting for a moment the new and
glittering god of their we~k-day's idolatry, in contemplating
the age and grandeur of the God of the Sabbath. Each
denomination of Christians had erected its house ~f worship;
and, after ringing their bells in ~uccession, their sweet chime
sounded far oVer the surrounding hills, returning hack in
soft echoes which fell like a note of entreaty upon the car of
the careless, telling him it was a holy day.
But on this lovely morning, when even the spring breezes
whispered more softly in the trees, and all things spoke of
that "Sabbath stillness" which is felt so often, but, cannot be

described, the pious ear was shocked all at once by a loud
whooping and hallooing, as if a n~enagerie of wild animals
were let loose in their midst. They turn to see from whence
this violation of public sentiment comes, and behold Piper
on Gilpin, and his man Grandison, with two or three ser-
vants, trying to herd and drive his cattle:
"llui, hui! hey there! hui along! Run there, Grandi-
son, and head Broadhead! quick! You Nance! confound
your heart of you! turn Speckle back there! Bj~tsy, 0
Betsy! [at the top of his voice,] make some of them run
down there and turn Fullpiggin's heifer back !" such a
noise and confusion! The calf darts by, and Betsy after it.
She heads it at last, and it goes lowing back. to the herd.
Piper and Gilpin go hither and thither: "ilni, hui! hey
along! Confound that blasted bull! he had to turn back.
I'll make beef of him! Get up, here, Gilpin: you'll lay
down and wallow, next !"
The cattle were finally herded, and trotted off in a com-
pact body, lowin~ down the street among the church-goers;
the large ones horning the si~aller, and forcing them upon
the sidewalk, frightening' pedestrians, and causing theni to
skit from side to side and across the street, to avoid their
horns and hoofs.
The crowd goes on to church, wondering how a man who
desires to be respectable and respected can thus desecrate
the Sabbath; and Piper rides on behind his cattle, and ~von-
ders why he is not as much respected and as respectable as
other folks!
As Piper and his cattle are going one way, they meet
Smith and Blunt going another
"There go Piper and his cattle," says Blunt.
"Yes; and is it not strange that a man with a lovely family,
such as I understand he has, should thus openly insult the
religious sentiment of the community ?"


P

92

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

"And while he turns hi~ back 'openly upon society, and
publicly profanes the Sabbath, he thinks it strange and very
unjust in society to retaliate, and turn its back on him. I
am told it is entertaining, good as a circus, to hear him rate
at the injustice of society."
"Ha, ha, ha! I have heard him. And yet if any friend
were to dare to hint to him the truth, he would catch a
canin~ for his pains."
Of course they who push Piper and his cattle out of
society in this easy, cavalier sort of way, for openly disre-
garding the second articlee of the decalogue, in driving stock
on Sunday, will themselves "remember th~ day, to keep it
holy ?" Yes, they seem to be going to church. No; they
ride past. They are perhaps expecting some important
news by mail, that will n6t bear postponing until Monday;
and as the mail remains open only a short tiftie on Sunday
morning, they purpose to get it before going to church.
No; they take a different street. Why, where can they be
going? Not to a restaurant, surely? Yes, it must be; they
hitch their horses, and go in at a private entrance. But then
they will soon come out again? No. Wonder what they are
doing in there, that keeps them so long? Let the pious who
so severely and justly condemn Piper for the open embla-
zonment of his impiety, open the door quietly, and walk in,
and see what 4etains Smith and Blunt. It is a slight breach
of custom and good-breeding; but they will not take offence.
Handsome apartment, you think? finely finished, ceiling
'elaborately frescoed, rich curtains festoon the windows, car-
.pets soft and fi~ie, furniture elegant, every thing orderly as a
private parlor. Hi! you start back! What is the matter?
You need not e alarmed; it is only Blunt, Smith, Nickols,
Clarkson, Col. Isaacs, and Capt. Orr, taking a social game for
amusement ! They are all gentlemen, honorable men, leaders
and exemplars in society, the same who slam the door in the

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

93

face of Piper and his cattle. They bet! you say? Yes;
but not to win; only to count the game. They drink, too!
you say? Well, yes; but that is for good cheer, just to
enliyen them a little; nothing more! Worse than Piper!
you say? Perhaps you are right; but beware! do n't speak
it above your breath! They hold the reinsIaere; and if
you dare insult them by drawing a parallel between them and
Piper, they will run the wagon right over you. Can't stay.?
Do n't leave; too late to go to church. Come, stay it out.
You consent? Good! You are rather s bruck with these
two new acquaintances? Not surprised; fine-looking men;
their titles are not meaningless appendages, put on as a con-
venient handle, but well and bloodily earned. They are
brave knights, who have gallantly won their spurs, fleshed
their swords in thek country's cause. The Colonel's name
belongs to history; his deeds of daring upon the field where
"Greek met Greek," belong to his country. His face will
bear reading: peruse it. That full, prominent forehead,
defiant look, fierce, flashing eye, shaggy hair and eyebroWs,
broad, deep chest, and muscular arm, mark asavery
war.god! In the full tide of battle the rage ~of the lion is
not more terrible! Priam had not in all his irmy a braver
soldier, nor Occur de Lion a bolder knight. The Captain is
equally brave, equally enduring, but more modest, and less
ambitious. They wield the tongue, the pen, and the sword
with equal effect. You are surprised to see them here?
Correct. Excess, you think, is beginning to tell on them?
Correct again. Take large drinks, you think? Correct
again. The Colonel begins to feel his; his face is flushed;
he is becoming excited; the other players notice it, and are
silent. Nickols sits opposite to him; Nickols wins his
money; thq Colonel becomes more excited. Did you see
that look? The muscles of his face work. There!, he has
lost a large sLake! Stand back! See, he jerks' a hi~ge.


.4

94

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

bowie-knife from his bosom, and staves it through the cards
and table! springs up and glares~ at Nickols with his savage
eyes! shakes his mane in a rage! Nickols shrinks away as
from destiny; but see, his cupidity is greater than his fears;
he reaches for his winnings, clutches and draws them to him.
Gracious! Stop your ears! "By -- I" Jsaacs has sworn
by a name above all other ,names, a name the pen is reluctant
through reverence to write, that Nickols "cheated." Mis-
take: he did not cheat; but Nickols is afraid to correct him;
all afraid to say a word. The man still glares, and shakes
his mane at Nickols. Nickols wants to escape; does not
know how. If he does not escape sqon, blood will be spilt.
What is to~ be done? Do you run ~out and cry "fire."
There, that~ will do. See, Nickols has escaped, and goes
hawking, as fast as his broolnstiQk legs will carry him, to
his office, opens the door, turns the key. . There he is safe.
All right. Yoiz~reathc freer. Nickols is not a bad man,
you ask Y Certaii~ly not. No swindler; fond of adram,
fond of cards, but~h~rmless as a woman, otherwise..
Late that afternoon there was a tap at the door of Nickols'
office. He s~ i4ed, and turned pale. He looked through the
window, and ~eeing Captain Orr, instead of; as he feared,
Colonel Jsaacs, he opened the door, and the Captain, in the
politest manner possible, excused himself, and handed Nick-
ols an open note; from Colonel Isnacs, demanding the satisfac-
tion "known to gentlemen," for cheating at cards; and ap-
pointed his friend, Captain Orr, to meet one selected by
Nickols, to arrange the terms. Captain Orr was very polite,
but very much intoxicated; Nickols was flurried, and went
hawking about the room.
"I a~ sorry to trouiAe you, but at w~iat hour may I ex-
pect an answer ?" asked Captain Orr.
"lla-a-a-awk-ha-a-a-awk-ha-a-a-awk--in the morning."
"Thank you," and bows himself out.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

95

Nickols continued to walk the floor--pulled out the note
and re-read it, and soliloquised: "IIa-a-a-awk-a challenge,
heli? lla-a-a-awk--wants to shoot me, lich? Ha-a-a-awk--
ha, ha, ha! but if he does, I 'm d-d. lIa-a-a-awk-his
pistols - ha-a-a-awk--will have to be--ha-a-a-awk-longer
than his hair-ha-a-a-awk-if he does." He took out his
winnings, and counted them over-was well satisfied-put
them in his leather wallet~L3put on his hat, opened and closed
the door quietly, turned the key, took. it out, and went ha-a-
a-awkin g home.
Very early upon the ensuing morning, bef@e the town ~vas
astir, Blunt, who had been up all night playing for amuse-
ment, and betting to count the game, and was on his way
to the Market-house to get ~ cup of coffee, saw Nickols, with
carpet-sack in hand, hurr~4ng towards a steamboat just push-
ing out from the landing, bound for New Orleans, and called
out:
"Ilallo, Nickols! where are you going ?"
"Ha-a-a-awk," and a, quicker pace, is the only answer.
"Off for New Orleans, 'Nickols ?"
"lla-a-a-awk," and jumps aboard.
"Sorry you didn't 'let me know you were going; I would
have sent some letters by you."
"lla-a-a-awk," and disappears through the cabin-door.
When he left his office on the preceding afternoon, he went
home and informed his aunt, a kind old lady who had for
years kept house for him, and who thought the' world had no
other nephew like to him, that he was going to California,
and should leave on the first boat bound for New Orleans.
She was greatly distressed at first, and endeavored to dissuade
him from going; but upon his explaining the danger he was
in, and the necessity of keeping his design a secret until lie
should have time to leave New Orleans, she entered with all
her heart into his plans. His clothes were soon packed; and


96        PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
after raking up all the cash about the house, and writing her
a deed securing to her a life..interest in his property, he took
his valise or carpet-sack, and went to his office to await a
downward-bound boat; and as soon as one landed, he started
ha-a-a-awking on his way to the far-off Pacific, out of reach
of Jsaacs' bowie-knife and pistol.
Prompt to the hour, Captain Orr went hiccoughing to
Nichols' office for his answer, and was almost sobered 'by
seeing on the door, in large letters, "FOR RENT"---~-and
just under them on the same card, in smaller letters
"Your answer." With an oath or two at Nickols' cow-
ardice, as the excellent foppery of this world is pleased to
call a man's unwillingness to be shot at, he turned away;
and the two friends continued their spree until their over-
taxed stomachs would receive no more, Captain Orr's dri~nken
fancy being haunted all the time, like a disagreeable night-
mare, with certain large letters, accompanied by small ones.
When entirely sober, they were almost oblivious to what
had passed. Colonel Jsaacs had an indistinct recollection
of having insulted and denounced a very timid man; and,
obedient to the instincts of the true gentleman he really
was, when not excited by the de~on of the bottle, he went
with his friend to Nichols' offi~ e to offer an apology for
his rudeness and bullying. There ~vere the big letters which
had so tormented the Captain's fancy. The whole thing
came back to them by degrees. With a smile at the tim-
idity which would make a man leave his friends and home,
and cross the continent, sooner than be shot, they sought
his residence tp make there the only reparation in their
power. The old aunt was not a little frightened to see
them approach the house; but her fears were exchanged
for a very different emotion when their errand was ex-
plained, and she was desired to convey their apologies to
her nephew, and receive a thousand offered to herself.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

CIIAPTIfl{ XII.

Am I to set my life upon a throw,
Because a bear is rude and surly? No.
Cowrnit.

ONE Sunday evening in the spring of the ensuing year,
as Colonel Clarkson and his family were taking a stroll along
the river bank at the plantation, a steamboat from below
landed to put off some passengers. As the plank was pushed
out some two or three gentlemen hurried ashore, and as one
of them hurried to the plank, Clarkson was pleased to hear
a loud "ha-a-a-awk."
"By Jove, if there isn't Nickols," said he.
Yes, it was Nickols, Vaughan, and one or two others, who
had come to attend the spring term of the court.
"Why, NickQls, my old friend, how are you? I am really
glad to see you, old fellow," shaking him warmly by the
hand. "I am glad to see you all, gentlemen. Come, walk
to the house. Here, Ned," who, upon seeing passengers land
that were the friends of his master, caine running for their
baggage, "take the baggage of these gentlemen. Nickols, IC
suppose you have returned laden with the dust from the gold
region ?"
"Ha-a-a-awk--plentyof dust, Colonel, plenty of dust, but
no gold."
"How is that? You go to California and not dig ?"-As

97


PLAYIN~ FOR AMUSEMENT.
98     PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                                                        99

he said this they stepped upon the gallery, and seats ~vere
furnished. Nickols had another peculiarity not mentioned
in his first introduction, purely a Nickolism: When very
much amused at what he w~s relating, he would jump up
from his seat, 5tiek out one foot, take his thigh in~ both his
hands, and turn around a time or two, with a ha, h~, ha! he,
he, he! and planting his feet upon the floor some eighteen
inches apart, and his knees together, would poke his two fore-
fingers at his auditor, with a grimace such as one sees in a
comic almanac. At this remark of Colonel Clarksori, he
jumped up, caiii~ht hold of his leg, whirled around, planted
his feet upon thd floor, clapped his knees together, poked his
two fingers at the Colonel, grimaced, and exclaimed,
"Ha, ha, ha, he, he, he! did n't dig, l~eh? By the Lord,
I did dig! ha, ha, ha! IF did dig! Do yo~i see these hands ?"
approaching him, and' showing him a pair of hands as soft
and small as a woman's. "lla-a-a-awk, I blistered them
digging; do you understand? and then carried water until
I wore out my breeches rubbing against the bucket. What
do you think of that? By the Lord, I did dig."
"Well, compose yourself, and sit down and give us a his-
tory of your California life."
"lla-a-a-awk; take a drink first, to neutralize tl~e poison I
was drugged with by the bar-k~e~er of that boat."
"What sort of a country is it, Nickols ?"
"Ha-a-a-~awk; the d-dest country the Lord ever made."
"Emphatic enough, but not very definite. What do you
mean?"
"lla-a-a-awk; I love brandy, do you know that ?"
"I have always been very much inclined to suspect that
yom did."
"But I love money better; ha, ha, ha, he, he, he! Four
dollars will buy f6rty drinks in Bluff City, did you know
that? At a drink a day, it will last him a month and ten

F

extra drinks to spare. I like to treat my friends when they
are thirsty and it does not cost too much; you understand?
he, he, he !"
"Well, what has that to do with California ?"
"A d.-d sight; ha, ha! You knew 5---.-? Used to
'know him in Bluff City; always liked him; he always treated
me like II was a gentleman, and it is so rare for gentlemen to
treat me in that way, I am grateful, and remember it. You
are one of the few that always treat me as a gentlemen, Colonel,
and I love you ;" going up to him and patting him on the
shoulder; "I love you, Colonel; you are one of the men I
like; you are unsophisticated."
"Well, go on with your story; what about S~ ?"
"The first thing IF saw on landing at San Francisco was a
o~reat bio~
ign, with 'S-'s RESTAURANT,' in great big
letters. Ha-a-a-awk; it was as welcome to me as 'Entertain
ment for Man and Beast' to the dusty traveller on the high-
way at sundown. I was a character on board the ship, you
see-they called me Judge......did n't correct it-.people had
more respect for me-.-great country that for titles-.-must
support my dignity-had won my passage on board, and a
good stake besides, and felt rich, and was thirsty~you under-
stand ?"
"Certainly I do; go on with your story."
"I invited four of my travelling friends to join me in a
glass, and to S-~-~-'s we went. I wanted to patronize an old
friend-.-.you understand ?"
"Yes, I understand; and you knew lie would not, of course,
charge you-~-so glad to see you and hear from home.-you
understand ?"
"Ha, ha, ha !" catches up his leg and ~hirls around; "Ha,
ha, ha! very good. 'Why, ---~~----~,' sags II, 'old fellow, how
are you?' lie was delighted to see n~e'~~-~.had a thousand

/
I I
I' I
I ~

98

gg


ii
100         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
questions to ask-knew I was thirsty-Saw that I wanted a
drink-hut did n't ask me to take one-waited for me to ask
-he sat down five glasses, and we took our drink-five drinks
-I threw down a sovereign-a ' sove' was worth five dollars
in California-and waited for my change-four dollars and
a half-and if he did n't tell me I owed him fifty cents I
wish I may be d-.------d! but as it was me-an old acquaint-
ance, it made no difference! ha, ha, ha! he, he, he! What
do you think of that, heh? What do you think of California
now?"
~" I think you did n't take ~iiany more drinks at ~
"You are right there. I did n't; so let us take another
to make up for lost time."
They were reluctant to take another drink, for it was evi-
dent that Nickols had taken too many already; hut good
hospitality, or rather the bad hospitality of the times, required
that Clarkson should second the request, and they repeated
their drink.
"What do you think that fifty cent charge was for? I
have tried to cipher it out ever since, hut it defies my arith-
metic; ha, ha 1"
"What did you engage in first, after you got t6 Cali-
fornia ?"
"Mining; wore out my hands and breeches at it, and
quit."
"What did you do next ?"
" Drove a ~
"Drove a wagon.
"Yes; or six mules that pulled one."
"What did you haul ?"
"Whatever people paid me to haul, but principally provi-
t3ions to the mines.
"Did you make any money at it ?" asked Vaughan, who,

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT..

101

though not exactly avaricious, was always in close pursuit of
a fortune, just on the eve of making one, and easily excited
on the subject of fortune-making.
"Yes; I made money."
"What did you do with it ?"
~'Spent it; ha, ha, ha !" Walking off a step or two, and
turning back, and seating himself by Vaughan, he planted a
and upon each thigh, his elbows sticking out, and looking
at Vaughan, said:
"Vaughan, I came Within an ace of making the grandest
fortune ever made in California !"
"Explain," said Vaughan, all attention.
"Were you ever in Copiah ?" (A pine-woods county in
Mississippi.)
"Yes, once."
"Did you ever look up at the top of one of those tall
pines ?"
"Often."
"How high is the tallest one you ever saw ?"
"I do not know; a hundred feet or more."
"Yes, nearly twice that. What is the price of shingles in
Bluff City ?"
"Three dollars per thousand, I believe."
"How many can a man make per day ?"
"I do not know; from one to three thousand, I suppose."
"Ha-a-a-awk, they are worth from seventy-five to one
hundred dollars per thousand iii California! Do you hear?
from seventy-flve to one hundred dollars per thousand! What
do you think of that ?"
"That I would like to be a shingle-maker, and have Co-
piah moved to California."
"'You would, eh? You may well~ say that; but there are
pines therd that can beat, two feet to one, any pine you ever
saw growing in Copiah. While driving to the mines, I passed
~


102         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
a pine forest, the most magnificent a lumber-merchant's eye
ever feasted upon. The Copiali pines are saplings to them.
There were pines there three hundred feet to the first limb !"
"That is impossible. If you exaggerate in that way, III can't
believe your fortune story-"
"Those three hundred feet ones had no limbs. Without
exaggeration, they were the tallest pine trees that I ever saw,
and the shaft was as straight as an arrow, but little sm~iler
at the limbs than at the root-you understand ?"
"Be done with your 'understand,' and go ahead I"
Vaughan begins to grow excited.
"Only sixty miles-two days' drive-from San Francisco
were shingles enough to cover a continent, and worth, when
rived out, one hundred dollars a thousand! I was astounded
that no onp had thought of working the forest up into one
hundred dollar lumps: it would beat the mines. My reso-
lution was taken at once and I was so afraid that some onc
would be before me, and pre~mpt upon my forest and shingle-
yard, that IF nearly ran my mules down trotting to the city.
IF ~~as afraid to motion it even to my best friends."
While telling 'it he became so much interested as to forget
to ha-a-a-awk. He stopped, however, to t~tke a chew of to-
bacco.\ Vaughan was more excited than he, if any thing;
and, unable to Irook the delay, called out,
"Confound it, go on, or someboQy will think of it, and get
there before."
"IF bought ~ny hoes, axes, cross-cut saws, wedges, drawing-
knives, and all other implements needed' in shingle~making.;
bought another team and wagon, and prepared to start. A
boss-carpenter, with a large building contract on hand, seeing
my preparations, and suspecting my object, wanted to make
a contract wit~ me to furnish him a million shingles at
seventy-five doll\irs per thousand; but I declined."
"Why the thunder did n't you take him up ?"

PLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.             103
"IF knew I could do better. IF asked him one hundred
dollars per thousand."
"And lost all by your avarice !"
"Not a bit of it. I knew that I could sell all IF could
make for mare than seventy-five dollars per thousand. IF
determined to so arrange it that my teams would take a load
of provisions to the mines and bring a load of shingles back,
which would enable me to haul cheaper than others, and
thus monopolize the hauling business, which was itself very
profitable. I hired some men to aid in the business, and
found that, after completing my arrangements, IF was some-
thing i'n debt; but that was nothing with .such a splendid
prospect before me for an overgrown fortune."
"Certainly not. You did n't take sick ~" Vaughan asked,
not seeing how he could otherwise have failed to realize a
tremendous fortune.
"No, IF did n't get sick. Glorious prospect, was n't it !"
"Splendid! Somebody ahead of you ?"
"TIa-a-a-awk, no."
"Go ahead, man, I am getting excited."
"All things ready, next morning, bright and early, I started
with my teams and men to the forest; and just before sun-
down on the second day we arrived. I selected a beautiful
level spot for my operations, where the trees were so thick
that a year's work of my men would hardly make an opening,
and the tallest, prettiest trees you ever saw. IF do not ex-
aggerate in saying that a majority of them would have
measured from sixty to eighty and a hundred feet in the
shaft, and nearly the same size all the way. There were
shingles enough on one, even at Bluff City prices, to' make a
fortune of a fabulous size."
"Why did n't you go to work instead of star-gazing?"
"I was in no hurry. I took a sort of delicious pleasure
in contemplating it, and going orderly to work to gather in


104      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                               PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

my fortune. We pitched our tent, fed the mules, cooked
and ate supper, and I lay down to dream of pine-trees, shin
gles, and millionaires. By daylight the next morning I had
my men all up, and by the time II cooked breakfast, they had
a tree cut down, and several cuts sawed off. Breakfast eaten,
I had a cut rolled out, and slapped the wedge into it myself.
I wanted to strike the first lick toward my fortune. I let
drive at it, and the d-d thing would n't split !"
"By 'the eternal !" exclaimed Vaughan, bounding up,
"why did n't you try anotfrer ?"
"By the eternal, I did I"
"And another I"
"I did."
"And they would n't split ?"
"No, sir, they would u't split I"
"That was very near a fortune, sure enough! Wh ~t did
you then ?"
"Got drunk as a beast. Come, let us take a drink, and
I '11 go to bed, if the Colonel will give me a place to sleep."
"What did you do with your teams ?"
"Sold them, and paid my debts."
"Then what ?"
"Kept tavern."
"Kept tavern I"
"Yes, sir, kept tavern! I made money at that, and would
have continued at it if it had not been 'for Dick Bowie."
"Why, what did he do ?"
"He wanted to shoot me, a~id I did n't want him to do it;
and as he insisted on it, I thought I had better leave. Now,
Colonel, you would have preferred being shot, but I had no
ambition that way. 'Two bullets and a bragger' I can stand,
if I have the 'age;' but there was nothing I could 'hold'
that would have induced me to 'see' him after I once got out
of his sight."

105

"Why not shoot him ?"
"I wouldn't if I could; and I couldn't if I would. I went
to California to keep from being shot, . and I could afford to
come back for the same laudable purpose. I prefer your
brandy, Colonel, to shooting or being shot. Butler says: 'It
is as great a pleasure to be cheated as to cheat;' but I say, lit
is as great a pleasure to be treated as to treat; understand,
heh? And now let u~ take a drink, and, if you will let me,
I will go to bed."
"But supper is just ready; let us eat that first."
"I never eat supper. So good night."

104


106

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

CHAPTER XIII.
A boding silence reigns,
]i~read through the dun expanse; save the dull sound
That from the mountain, previous to the storm,
Rolls o'er the muttering earth, disturbs the flood,
And shakes the forest leaf.
In awful gaze
The cattle stand, and on the scowling heavens
Cast a deploring eye.
THERE was little or nothing of interest in the Court, and
its session was soon closed, and lawyers returned home. The
river was very high~~boOmingand great fears were ~nter-
tamed of an overflow. It had been steadily rising for some
time, and was nearly to the top of the levees; and negroes
were kept ~upon the watch day and night to repair breaches,
and watch the waters. Upon occasions like this, every thing
yielded to the one all~overpowering feeling-even cards and
wine. The planting and working the crops were mereW me-
chanical. The great "father of waters," swollen to the
brim, with the melted snow and the rains that had fallen in
the vast valley between the Alleghany and Rocky Mountains,
and that rushed in ten thQusand channels to this immense
trunk, went roaring and foaming along, covered with drift-
wood of eyery ~dnd. To look across the channel seemed
higher, by some feet, than the frail earthen barrier that
helped to bear u~ its waters. As neighbor met neighbor, the
word of greeting was, invariably, "The river is still rising;"
and the word of farewell at parting, "I am afraid we shall

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

107

all be overflowed." Houses through the swamp were built
upon high pillars, intended to meet a contingency like the
one now apprehended. The banks of the river and lakes
were the highest parts of the swamp; and hence, when the
water once passed the front barrier it rushed madly into the
back country, spreading out everywhere; a~nd the back
planters were as much dependent upon the levees as those in
the front. Day after day they rode to the river, and sat upon
their horses and listened to the gurgle, and watched the flow
of the mighty river. An overflow was the more dreaded,
because it not only involved the loss of an entire crop-in
itself an immense calainity-but fencing, live stock, and every
movable thing not placed beyond the reach of the floQd. T~e
water had risen to within a few inches of the top of the levee,
an d rippled along its edge.
"Well, Jacob," said Mr. Clarkson to the negro man, who
had been watching the l9vee, and had come to report, "h~w
now ?"
"Still ris'n, master."
"Made any new discoveries, Jacob ?"
"Way up yonder, by Mr. Foster's hog-pen, whar de hogs
and cattle had a path over de levee, and dey put dat new
dirt, I'se afeard will break, sir; it looks mighty soft dar."
"Good gracious, Jacob! Ned, run down and tell the ~over-
seer to come here."
When Mr. Blake rode up, Clarkson addressed him:
"Mr. Blake, Jacob reports the giving way of the levee
where it was repaired at the corner of Mr. Foster's field."
"Yes; I have sent some hands up there to try and
strengthen it."
"Suppose you gallop up and see that they do it well; for
if the levee should break, then it will overflow the whole
country."
"I was on my way up there when I met Ned."


1~.

jL

108

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT~

"Ride this way as you return, Mr. Blake."
"Ned, catch a horse and take a note to Mr. Gibson. I
promised to send ~him any news that might be important; anI
if the levee should break there it would cut him off from the
rivci~, and he and his family be either lost or seriously en-
dangered."
The note was written and Ned dispatched.
Mr. and Mrs. Clarkson walked the gallery in suspense and
anxiety.
"Wife! we had better ~ot delay any longer. I shall hail
the first boat and put you and the children aboard of her, and
send you to Bluff City."
"What, and leave you here ?"
"Certainly, my dear wife. Why not? It may not over-
flow, and then there will be no danger to any of us; anclif
it does, the danger will be greatly lessened by having you and
the children in a place of safety."
"0! I can't think of it! I cannot go and leave you
here."
"Nonsense, wife The' children must go, and you must
go with them; they can't go by themselves."
"But why, husband, do you not go with us; why risk your
life when it is so precious to your family ?"
"'For the best reason in the world, as you ought to feel.
There are one hundred and twenty souls on this place for
whom I am responsible, and II cannot abandon them to the
mercy of a paid man, who has his own wife and children to
look after, and himself to care for. As good a man and as
'trusty as he i~, may he not, in looking to thi~s first call upon.
his affections, abandon these helpless beings to the mercies
of the devouring flood? and who could blame him? No,
Amy, my wife, you must ~o, and without me. After know-
ing and seeing that you and the little ones are safe, my duty
is here."

.PTJAYJNG FOR AMUSEMENT.

109

"I did not think of the poor negroes at the moment; my
thoughts were of you. I see it all now-.you ought to ~tay,
and II ought to go. I will get the children ready, and be pre-
pared to take the first boat."
Apprehensive of the overflow, Mrs. Clarkson' had had every
0*
thing so arranged that she could mQve at an hour~ s warning'
Whatever was needed at Bluff City was packed for travel,
and the balance put in a condition to remov~ to the upper
rooms, should the water rise as high as the first floor. Before
leaving, Mrs. Clarkson said:
"Husband, let us go around to see the Hermit; he has but
little to keep him here, and perhaps we can prevail on him
to accompany me to the city."
"Very well. I am glad you suggested it. Let us go im-
mediately."
When they arrived at the cottage, Mr. Q~rkson approached
the Hermit most kindly, and said:
"My friend~ we have come to try and persuade you to go
down to the city with my wife and children, and make my
house your home until the rise in the waters shall subside, or
all apprehensions of an overflow are passed. My negroes and
Mr. Blake are now engaged in strengthening the levee at
Mr. Foster's field, where serious fears are entertained of a
crevasse; and should it occur, your place will be sub-
merged."
The old man looked at him for a moment without resp~nd-
ing in any way. But he was evidently less absorbed than
usual, or rather his thoughts were not inward. The ever-
present, all-prevailing thought had affected him as well as
others. Here was a feeling greater than sorrow, and things
that could only feel, and never thought, felt it. It pervaded
the atmosphere: the cattle felt it,. and lay late around the
pen in the morning, grazed near the house, coming up early,


110      PJaAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                                  PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.        111

and going about lowing as before a storm. The dogs felt it,
and howled; the insects that burrowed in the earth felt it,~
and built upon higher spots of ground; the unlettered wood-
chopper felt it, and felled hi~ tii~bers upon the highest brakes;
and the ilermit felt it, and feeling it, he was upon a par with
his fellow-man.
"I thank you, Mr. Clarkson," he said, more blandly than
usual; "but see," to a small hole in the ground, sur-
rounded by a deposit peculiar to a certain swamp-worm, "that
little untaught insect is my water-gauge. He knows more
about the footsteps of the water-god than the philosopher or
levee-builder. The water will reach him, but will not go be-
yond; and that will not reach the upper step of my cottage."
"1~KIIy dear sir, you surely will not trust to that worm
"Yes, with more confidence than to man."
"But even then your place will be overflowed."
"I expect that; but my floor will be dry."
"You do not mean to say you intend remaining in your
house with the water all under it ?"
"Ido."
~"What will you do for provisions?
* "I ha~ve provided for that."
"My dear sir, let me persuade you to accompany my wife
and children to Bluff City."
"Is it for the sake of your wife and children you ask this
of me?"
"No; but for your own comfort and safety I most earn-
estly wish it."
"I cannot go."
"Is there nothing I can do for you ?"
"Nothing."
"May Lnot send some one to help you prepare for the ap-
proaching calamity-to help save your little stock, etc. ?"

"No."
"Sir, allow me to assure you of the very deep interest I
takin you."
"Certainly."
"I owe much to you, more than figures will count. You
have done for me what I was unable to do for myself; and
rebuked a father's love for his child, by perilling youi' own
life in his presence to save her, my daughter. Had any one
else performed an act so far beyond me, it would have humi~
hated me, but not so with you. I have seen you day by day,
week by week, month by month, and year by year, wearing
away life and a powerful frame in silence and solitude, brodd-
ing apparently over some great sad secret, and I have not
attempted nor desired to probe it; your grief, if it be grief;
is as far beyond my sympathy as your undaunted courage is
beyond mine, and is scornful of my pity; and in time of
peril, doubt, and terror, I see you rise in grandeur almost to
a divinity, and the very elements yield to you, and at your
touch relax their hold upon one dQar to me as life; and
now that all are'~ alarmed, and anxiously preparing to avoid
a danger they cannot brave, you appear indifferent, and push
*       back the hand reached out to help you."
The countenance of the old man softened, and grasping
the hand of Colonel Clarkson, he said:
"Do not misunderstand me. I am in no need of assist-
ance now; if I were, Ii would not hesitate to accept yours so
kindly offered."
Clarkson was silent a few moments, and then said:
"My friend, I feel a deep interest in you.
"And I in you and yours," said the Hermit; "more than
mere words can express."
"I wish I could prevail upon -you to go down with my
family to the city. You may sicken and die here with the
water all around you, even under youm' house.

s
e
t


112

PLAYING FOIL AMU5Ei~IflNT.

The Hermit only shook his head. It was useless to trouble
him further, and as a boat was expected every moment, they
hurried back, signalled her, and Mrs. Clarkson, with her
children and servants, went aboard.
Toward evening Mr. Blake came along, and called to re-
port the work on the levee. In ansWer to Colonel Clarkson's
inquiries, he replied: "We have checked it, and it may
stand. I. have had the dirt well rammed and sodded, bat I
am afraid the new dirt will melt, and give way."
"Have you left any one there to watch it ?"
"Yes; I left Jim and Abe; they seem to understand it."
"Are the stock-boats in order?'
"All but one, and Silas is c6rking that."
"How about the skiffs ?"
"They are all tight, I think. I have had theni filled with
water for several days."
"Is the corn where it will not be reached by the water ?"
"A part of it; and Ii will put the trash-gang"-a name for
the women and children usually employed in the lighter
work about the plantation-" to throwing it into the loft im-
mediately."
"The stock had better be all collected together, had n't
it?"
"It won't hurt."
"Better do it; better be too cautious than not enough;
for, if t1~e overflow comes, it will be like losing a double crop
to tos~ my stock, especially my mules. But above all tfrings,
Mr. Bkike make every arrangement for the safety of the ne-
gro~s. Let the mothers with the children be especially cared
for; they will be as helpless as infants, and I fear lose all
presence of mind, as they almost always do in time of dan-
ger."
"I have conversed with them, but they answer me only
with a 'wild stare, not seeming. to comprehend more than

PLAYING FOR AMIXS~M.ENT.

113

half I say. You can do more with 'them, Colon
time, than I."                            el, at such a
"Perhaps so. At all events, I am here to do all I
can."
In all this energy and bustle, one would hardly recog-
nize the idle, careless, time-killing Mr. Clarkson of a week
before. He went to each negro-cabin, and saw that each one
had his or her things in a condition to throw them into
a boat at a moment's warning; giving proper instructions
to the nurse who had charge of the children; and attended
to a thousand little things which would necessarily have es-
caped the attention of the overseer, whose mind was occupied
with the weightier plantation matters.
A day or two passed, and hope-.-not exactly hope either,
but something ahnost akin to hope-began to be indulged
that there might not be an overflow after all. Reports from
the upper rivers were favorable, and each report was sought
for with great eagerness. The rise in the river within the
past twenty-four hours was only about one-fourth of an inch.
Neighbors meet and talk, and look anxious. The succeeding
twenty-four hours was a stand-still. What was almost hope
before was now confirmed and full-blown. Conversation be-
came more cheerful, price-currents talked over; and the next
day, joy of joys, the river had receded an inch. Prospects
of the crops were now discussed, their progress, etc.; rides
were taken up and down the river, new gauge-pegs set, and
old ones examined, and all break up with a 'general drink~
and a strong inclination for a game.
They retire, however, early; but late at night the roar
and rushing sound is heard, and, upon running out, they'
find themselves ankle-deep in water. The bell was rung to
arouse the sleeping negroes, boats~ made ready, and such a
hurrying to and fro, lowing of cattle, squealing of pigs, hal-
looing at negroes, driving and whooping at mules, as made

'U

ii


114

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

confusion worse confounded, beggars description. Babel,
with its jargon of tongues, could not have been worse. Mr.
Blake and Clarkson did all that men could do. The infants
and lesser children were ordered to be conveyed to the nurse-
house, where they could be taken care of and kept safely
until morning; but each mother, true to her instincts, seized
her brood and ran with them hither and thither, screaming
like mad, and would listen to no one but their master. The
mules would n't go into the boats, the cattle would n't go
into the boats, and the hogs would n't go into the boats. The
water was rapidly rising, and swept past; like a mill-race; and
it was found that the boats had not been supplied with proper
cables. Clarkson and the overseer, and such of the negro
men as had presence of mind enough to do any thing, worked
all night in water, and by morning succeeded in getting such
of the stock as could be controlled into the boats; but much
the larger portion were left to perish.
Morning came, and as far as the eye could reach was one
wide sea of wild water. The break had occurred at the
weak place at Mr. Foster's levee ; and the water continued
rising until it covered the whole face of the country from
one to thirty feet, with only here and there an island. Abor-
tive efforts were made to secure some of the stock that had
escaped the night before, but all were useless. There was no
high land back to which the stock could be shipped, and
they were obliged to be taken to Bluff City, the nearest high
land on the river; and to do this 'the boats had to~ be carried
through the crevasse, a thing that seemed almost impossible.
But the stock could not stay cribbed up in those small,
crowded boats all fhe spring and summer, and an effort had
to be made.
A boat of fourteen mules was first tried. It was towed up
to the crevasse, and means taken to carry it through; bat as
soon as the roaring current struck it it wa~ jerked away, up-

I "}

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

115

set, and carried off mules and all, like so much cork. This,
it was soon seen, ~rould never do; and it was thought that
a steamboat could approach near enough to th~ levee to rest
its staging on it, and the boats could be brought alongside,
and the stock transferred across the levee to the steamer. A
boat was accordingly hailed, and attempted to land, but she
stopped steam too quickly, and began rounding in too high
up, and, drifting into the current, was driven furiously ashore.
A scene of terror as wild as the waters ensued, but fortunately
no lives were lost. The boat, however, was wrecked, or rather
thrown where ~he became a wreck.
The stock were finally taken down the levee to a point
where a steamer could approach sufficiently near to get them
on board, and, with the negroes, they were taken to Bluff
City.
Through the whole trying scene Col. Clarkson had been
the true master. His loss was great, and but for his being
present, it would have been doubled, as he must have lost
many of the servants, whom terror had rendered insubordi-
nate. Through fear and the habit of obedience, they had
always listened to the commands of the overseer; but in the
presence of a greater fear, they paid no attention to him, and
were as intractable as the frightened horses. And here it was
that Ccl. Clarkson's aid was so efficient. The more timid would
cling up to their master, and, at his voice, come running to
catch and obey his slightest wish, whilst they would skit
about like scared chickens at the orders given by the over-
scer.
Cla~kson felt all the responsibility of a master, and his
noble nature never perhaps stood more boldly out from the
careless habits of the m ~re lover of pleasure than at this
time. He was ever kind txnd just 2to his slaves, and almost
worshipped by them in return. Master was every thing to
them; and master's wife and master's children the extent,


116      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT4                                PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.        117

the sum and essence of life, the boundary of the world, so
far as they were concerned. And he deserved it all, for
whatever else he might have failed in as a useful citizefi, in
this respect he had performed his whole duty. As he saw
the last negro safe on board, his heart lightened, and he
silently thanked God that no lives had been lost. He thought
of Amy, too, and knew she would bless him for his kindly
watch and care over so many helpless human beings. They
were all safe now; and as he stood a moment upon the plank
on which he was to pass to the boat, forgetting the present,
and thinking over the pa t three days, the plank slipped, and
he was plunged headlong into the flood. The cry and bellow
that went up from a hund ed pair of lungs, "Master 's over-
board! master 's drowned I" was frightful to listen to, when
Abe, a tall, muscular fe low, dashed through the crowd,
leaped into the flood, seiz d Col. Clarkson as he rose, and, in
spite of drift-wood, wind1, and waves, held him above the
water until a skiff came to his assistance.

CIIAPTER x1V4
He made me mad
To see him shine so brisk, and smell so sweet,
And talk so like a waiting-gentlewoman,
Of guns, and drums, and wounds, (God save the mark!)
And telling me the sovereign'st thing on earth
~Vas ~armaeity for an inward bruise.
SHAKSPEAILE.

COLONEL CLARRSON and family spent the summer season
on the Gulf Coast. The sea-breeze, fishing, bathing, and
yachting, were all fine, and the company, generally, select.
There was an at-homeativeness there that one does not feel
farther from home, where faces, manners, and scenes are new
and strange. Mrs. Corbin and her daughter Clara and Frank
Vaughan were among the visitors, and Duke John, one of
the notables, or rather the notable-the observed of all ob-
servers. He had a handsome person in addition to his title, was
pretty as a lady's page, and, being a half invalid, was petted
and caressed by the ladies, feasted by the gentlemen, and
toadied to by the whole family of Verysofts. Miss Clara was
all smiles and made immeasurably happy at seeing her diamond
ring upon his finger~tl~e finger upon which she herself had
placed it.
In his partnership transactions on the Duke's account,
Vaughan was thrown so often in company with the mother
and daughter; and as the daughter was thought worthy a
Duke's regard by the Duke himself and the Duke's discern-
mont of character was so appreciative and correct-his regard


11  PAYNGFO AUSMET.P LA YIN G FO R AMU SE ME NT .                   11

for Vaughan, for instane-that he began to place Clara up~on
an equality with the Duke himself-something quite removed
from the great herd of ladies who sought their summer pas-.
turing in the Duke's smiles, and was accordingly strongly
tempted to become the rival of the Duke for her hand. In
the great prize lottery, he considered himself one of the
largest figure-upon an exact par with the Duke, though he
thought the Duke a figure above anybody else, lie was just
as good..looking-he would say to himsclf-dresscd in as good
taste, danced as well, and was equally gifted in the small talk
that pleased the small people that spent their small change at
small watering-places. The only difference between him and
the Duke was, that the Duke was a Duke and he was not;
though he deserved to be. He had not always thought him-
self so much higher than other~ men, and did so then out of
compliment to the .Duke's discernment, he having regarded
Vaughan alone of all the men of the Republic as worthy to
bp received upon terms of str'ctest intimacy. The purse of
Vaughan &amp; Co. was the only ne in the country he would
condescend to share; an the, oak of Frank Vaughan, Esq.,
was the only cloak lie had deemed at all worthy to mantle his
shoulders when in distress; and his pride-his ducal pride,
something -decided ly above the vulgar-revolted, at the
thought of being under obligations of a pecuniary character
to any other brokers than those of Vaughan &amp; Co. This
magic "Co." had the effect to nfake all the members of the
firm equal; and as things that are equal to the same thing are
equal to each other; and as the junior was equal to the
Duke-in the .Duke's estimation-shown by his wearing the
ring; and as Frank was equal to the Duke-in his own es-
timation-it followed that the junior must be equal to Frank.
State the case as he might, the demonstration was clear, and
his conviction firm, that the junior would do. Upon the
whole, it was settled in his mind, that unless the Duke made

a confidant of him in relation to Miss Clara--and he preferred
that he should not-he would try and cut the Duke out and
take her himself. This thing determined upon, he deemed
it only requisite that the elecision should be made known to
the junior to secure a stronger bond of partnership between
two of the members of the firm of Vaughan &amp; Co.
Full of this idea, and desperately determined to take the
junior's heart by storm, and her captive, he arrayed himself
in his best; had his barber arrange his hair'-in the most kill-
ing manner; his kids were of the finest quality and highly
perfumed. Like the "certain lord" that demanded Hotspur's
prisoners, he was
"Neat, trimly dressed;
a Fresh as a bridegroom; and his chin new reaped;
Hie was perfumed like. a milliner;-
Ad 'twixt his finger and his thumb he held
A panneet box, which ever and anon
- He gave his nose and took 't away again."
And thus armed, " with many holiday and lady terms," he
started to demand a surrender. What might have been the
result of such a formal business visit, under circumstances
less flattering to the junior than were those by which she
was then surrounded, may have been a matter of doubt.
His success upon occasions in some respects similar, would
have encouraged his friends to hope for the best. His
fine looks, fine clothes, and fine hair, were regarded as
powerful batteries in Cupid's wars, when conducting a siege
upon a young lady's heart; especially when under the direc-
tion of one with the reputation of having stormed many
such fortresses and come off without a scar. IFew hearts
could have resisted such an assault as was contemplated;
and no hope could have been entertained for the junior's
if it had not been well fortified and defended by vanity,

I

ll8

119


120

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

pride, and folly; ready "to do or die" under the command
of the Duke.
It had never occurred to Frank, that while he had all this
time~ been looking at the junior through the end of the fash-
ionable telescope, which n~agnifled the junior to huge propor-
tions, she was looking back at him from the other end, which
diminished him in equal proportions, and reduced him to the
dimensions of a lilliputian. To her, his marching up to rout
the Duke, was like a bantam strutting and showing his fine
feathers in the presence of his Imperial Majesty of Shanghai:
the very pullets mock his presumption, and his Majesty walks
right over him, holding his head at an immeasurable distance
above; and though the little felloW goes strutting and quirk-
ing off it is evident to all he has had his "comb cut."
The junior of the firm of Vaughan &amp; 0o was a long time
in answering the qard of Frank Vaughan, Esq.; and, as he
~at admiring himself, and rising, in his own estimation, each
minute, his complacency was refreshing. The citadel had,
of course, surrendered without a struggle, and the junior
would herself bring the keys unannounced, and was arraying
herself in that magnificent dress he had so much admired
upon a former visit in company with the Duke, and which he
had thought so becoming to her, and which the Duke even
condescended to praise. Yes; and she was having her maid,
Grisette, dress her hair in that admixture of* curls and
braids which she alone knew how to arrange, and which he
and the Duke had so highly complimented; and all this was
being done for him! Upon former occasions-as he had
always called with the Duke-it was uncertain for whom she
had thus arrayed herself, but now it was being done for him!
Ravishing thought! The pleasure which it gave him told
how much he had feared defeat, without admitting it to him-
eelf. Skilful generally, as he was, he allowed the certainty
of victory to put him off his guard, and, in the confident cx-

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

121

pectation of the keys, was not prepared for a sortie. A foot
was heard-.~-a slight rustle of petticoats~he is right! itis
the junior coming, unannounced, to deliver up the keys!
He placed himself in the most imposing attitude. The door
opened, and 0, ye powers of war! what a battery was opened
on him! He was riddled; literally shivered to pieces! The
junior stood before him in the very plainest calico wrapper,
her hair in papers, and her pretty feet pushe I into a pair of
her mother's old slippers! but charming, i~i spite of her
undress.
It was cruel to have taken such an advantage of his un-
guarded condition, to open on him in that way. Such a
sortie was not only disproportioned to the siege, but the
weapons were unheard - of in civilized warfare. He was
skilled in "fence," and was ready to parry any ordinary
weapons; such, for instance, as "Ma and pa had arranged
differently," "Too young to think of such things," "Time t~
reflect," "Prc~ngagement," etc., but entire indifference! an
absence of all suspicion that an attack was even contem~
plated, much less that one had been made-it was too bad!
"Excuse my dishabille," she began, "you came at such au
unseasonable hour; I-.-"
"Why, it is--"
"0, I know; but I told that stupid servant that I was not
at home to visitors until half-past six o'clock, when I expected
the Duke. 0, Frank! is n't he a love of a man
Frank's guns were all spiked. He was a prisoner of war,
and was silent.
There stood pretty Clara (lorbin, holding the door-knob
with one hand, and the edge of the door with the other,
leaning her weight slightly on h ~r hands, the door half ajar,
and gave no invitation to Frank ~aughan4 Esq., to be seated,
nor offered to take a seat herself; but looking for all the
world as if waiting for a message:

I


A2

PLAYING FOR AMUSEAENT.

Dear Frank," she said, in that sort of tone one says,
ear sonny," or "Dear buddy," "you will excuse me, I
k ow. It will soon be time to expect the Duke; and I was
i the act of dressing to i'eceive him when you came, a:ad
that stupid servant brought up sour card. I felt bound to
come down. That was what made me keep you waiting so
long. You will excuse me, I know, dear Prank; and I must
go and dress."
So saying, and bowing gracefully, she left Frank standing
in the floor.
She had no more malice than a child, and was as light as
the feather one takes in his fingers and puffs off in the wind,
and as giddy as butterflies of fashion usually are; but, with~
out intending it, during the interview she had, in the most
quiet way imaginable, turned the fashionable telescope around,
and presented to Frank's eye the end through which the
public looked at him. He saw himself; and as soon as he
discovered th~it the little tonitit of a thing he was looking
was himself, he dropped the telescope and went to his
room, a bantam with his fine tail-fe~thers pulled out, and
comb badly cut.
To add to his mortification, he had been in his room but a
short time, when he saw Miss Clara whirled past in a buggy
with the Duke, beautifully dressed, with her hair in the style
he had so much admired.
Mrs. Corbin was not altogether satisfied with the slow pro-
gress the Duke and Clara were making in their courtship.
She had flattered herself that she would 'have been the
mother-in-law of a Duke ere that time; and that evening,
after the ride, she called Clara into her room, with the
view of arranging plans to bring the Duke to an avowal of
his intentions:
"It is high time, Clara, that the Duke had openly declared
his purpose with respect to you. His attentions have been

U

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

123

as marked as if you w~re engaged; and everybody believes
you ~re engaged~ and it will deter other suitors; and you
must so manage it that he will be forced to declare his in-
tentions."
"How am I to do it? If he wont ask me to have h
how am I to make him ?"
"Easy enough, you simpleton, you. Frank Vaughan is
dying to offer his hand to you now. I saw him in one of.th~
mirrors, this evening, without his knowing it, when he sat in
the parlor, waiting for you to come down; and all that fixing
and primping and strutting meant more than a desire to make
a good appearance before one he knew as well and had seen
as often as he has you. Then why come alone? A man
who sticks as close to the Duke as he does, would not leave
him to make a visit alone, if the visit was intended as a mere
commonplace. Mark my word, he had his reason for wishing
to see you alone; and do you, the next time you meet with
him in the company of the Duke, affect to be entertained by
Vaughan, and let your attentions to him be so marked as
attract the Duke's notice; and you inlay trust to Vaughan to
opening the eyes of the Duke to his designs: he will not
be able to conceal it~."
"XVhy, ma! why did n't you tell me that before? I treated
Mr. Vaughan in such a way this evening, he'll never come
back here ao~ain I'm afraid."
"Never do you fear. ITo will think more of you than he
ever did. He prized himself before; he will prize you
now."
She was right. Vaughan had not been able to think of
any thing else but her, after his visit. He found himself all
the while arguing: "She would not have appeared before
the Duke hi that attitude; and then did n't she say, 'Dear
Frank,' as if I were her brother? The Duke may have her
fancy, but I have her confidence-..--her. sisterly regard; and


124      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                                   PLAYING FOR AMUSEM]~NT.       125

if I do not make something out of~it, my name is not Frank."
With this resolve, he found himself calling for Miss Clara
much sooner than even the mother suspected. It had the
effect of distressing Mrs. Corbin with another fear. She
wanted Clara to have two strings to her bow, and did not
wish this string pulled until the other broke; and Vaughan was
hastening matters so rapidly that she did not well see bow
Clara could continue to encourage him much longer without
a declaration from him; and this she was anxious to defer
until the iDuke disclosed his designs; and Vaughan, anxious
to see her alone, and prosecute his suit, would not call in
company with the Duke, so as to excite the desired jealousy
on the Duke's part,
Things were in this attitude, when a change caine o'er the
spirit of the mother's dream, which the following conversa-
tion between mother and daughter will explain:
"Clara, if Frank Vaughan proposes, do you take him; but
bring the Duke to terms, if you can."
"Why do you wish me to take Mr. Vaughan, mother ?"
"Because I don't want both birds to fly. Mrs. St. Cloud
is just here from Washington City, and I learn insinuates
that the Duke is no Duke after all. I don't believe a word
she says, the manoeuvring old thing. I just expected that
as soon as every thing was arranged, and the Duke was about
to propose, some such old marplot would come and put her
foot in it. I suppose she wants the Duke for that doll-baby
of hers, and she is afraid you will catch him before he knows
she's out, and before she can practice her arts of innocence
on him."
"Alice St. Cloud! I 'd like to see her catch a Duke; poor,
simple, foolish, affected thing ! It is all jealousy of Mrs. St.
Cloud to be slandering the Duke. I shan't speak to her
when II see her, and I'll tell the Duke not to do it. I'll show
her what it is to be slandering her betters."

"I am glad you have some of your mother's spunk. But
do you neVer mind Mrs. St. Cloud. I '11 teach her where
she stands; do you bring Vaughan to terms the first chance
you have, and make a chance if you can't do any better."

I

ft

124

125


126

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

CHAPTEII XV.
Out 'with the dog, says one; What cur is that ~ says another; Wh4'
him, says a third; Iliang him, says the ]I~uke. SHAKSPEAI~E.
MRS. ST. CLOUD, whose advent at the Coast promised so
inauspiciously, was what might be termed a splendid-looking
woman. She was large and well proportioned, above the
medium height, dignified, and rather reserved, though 'very
attractive in her manners; possessing that rare and happy
faculty of making every one feel at ease in her society, and
yet under sufficient restraint to avoid familiarity or freedom.
There was a charm about her which always pleased, but never
led astray; and it had often been remarked that he was a
bad man indeed who did not feel himself benefited by her
conversation. There was a purity, and honesty, and perfect
fairness in her thoughts, which stole in upon the heart, win-
ning the confidence of all, which the beautiful order of her
life never forfeited when once obtained.
She had been a widow for more than twelve years, and
though her hand had been desired by many, none had ex-
pressed the wish ,to here She was not wealthy, but had
enough of this world's goods to supply her plaifi wants, and
to support her daughter at one of the first institutions of
learning in the country. Her husband, like Col. Clarkson,
had been fond of cards and wine, but neither a drunkard nor
gambler. One night in New Orleans, after sitting late at

F

PLAYING P0Th AMUSEMENT.

127

)lay with some friends, he stopped, on his way to his hotel, at
restaurant for lunch, and was stabbed by a courtesan who
mistook him for her faithless lover. He was borne bleeding
nd in a dying state to his room, and the devoted, happy,
i~usting wife of the day before was roused up at midnight,
o see the husband of her young affections, and the father of
I er lovely child, breathe his last without a parting word.
All he did was to motion towards his daughter, gurgle an
inarticulate word, and die-the victim of playing for amuse-
ment and betting to count the game. The sad, broken-
hearted mother needed not this mute but emphatic appeal
to remind her of her duty to her child, to which her heart
clung so fondly. And though for months, and even years,
the floods of grief swept over her, at times almost carrying
her down under the heavy pi~essure, and sunlight and shade,
summer and winter went "darkling" by, the sight of her
helpless daughter, so solemnly recommended to her care,
afforded~ an incentive to action, and the young widow, by de-
grees, rose superior to the gre at trouble which was almost
crushing her to the earth. It was true that she looked oftener
now away to the distant skies, and thought of the rest there
prepared for the faithful, and sometimes longed for its sweet
repose; but she neglected no duty here. She learned to look
i~pon the world as it was, met it equably, and moving on in
the even tenor of her life, "her ways were pleasantness, and
all her paths were p9ace."
She brought a lette~' from Agnes to her father and mother.
A portion of it ran thus
DEAR PARENTS :-.My kind, good teachers have given me
a whole afternoon to write to you. Mrs. St. Cloud will leave
here to-morro'~v, and will take my letter to you. It is such a
pleasure to think about you, and tha1~ Mrs. St. Cloud will so
soon see you, that I feel more like sitting and thinking and

1y


128        PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

drying, than writing. I know it is wrong to cry, and I do
not do it because I am unhappy; for I am just as happy as I
can be away from: you.
Mrs. St. Cloud has been staying here near dear Alice,, and
would. not leave now, but she has met with a sad loss. Some
one went to her trunk and stole her ring and watch that
used to be worn by her husband, and on that account p:rized
very much by her. The thief pretends to be some great body,
and has gone down that way. And Pa, I want you to help
her get the things back, because she is so sad about it~
Dear sweet Alice is still my roommate. I love her more
and more every day. She will leave school a year before I
will.                  Your affectionate daughter,
AGNES.
am sorry to hear of your loss," Mr. Clarkson said, when
he had read the letter and handed it to his wife. "A~gne~
speaks of your having had some articles, much prized by you,
stolen from your trunk. Have you any suspicion of the
thief ?"
"Ye~," replied Mrs. St. Cloud, "he passed himself off in
Washi~gton City as the son of the Duke de Castro. And IL
came here upon a report that there was a man in this place
claiming that title."
"There is such a man here, and he has turned the heads
of all the women, an{ half the men. II will however make
an exception of my wife, who has never been able to 'tolerate
him, thDugh I cannot say tEe same for myself. Unless there-
fore you have the clearest ?roof of his guilt, I would recoin-
m~nd to you to proceed with great prudence, for the whole
fashionable hive l~ere is interested in maintaining his respect-
ability, and rumor says he is about to marry one of our IBluff
City belles."
"AhI who is tl~at ?"

PLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.             129
"Miss Clara Corbin."
"I should regret very much to interfere with any match
her mother may have in view for her daughter; for let this
K       pretended Duke turn out as he may, should I be the means
of exposing him, I fear Mrs. Corbin, instead of thanking me
for saving her child from a masked villain, would always cen-
sure me for having defeated the match."
"Too true, I fear."
"If the articles lost were not relics, prized by me far above
their intrinsic value, I should say nothing about them; but
money cannot replace them, and let it affect whom it may, I
must have them."
"What course do you propose to pursue ?"
"I wish, i1~ possible, to s~e some friend of his and demand
the articles as the price of silence, and to avoid publicity and
exposure so far as I can."
"Then let me send for his intimate friend, Frank Vaughan.
lie is more interested in avoiding a public exposure than any
one else; for, in addition to his being his intimate friend, he
introduced him here, and also to Mrs. Corbin."
Mrs. St. Cloud assented, and Vaughan was sent for~ As
soon as he came in, Mr. Clarkson said:
"Vaughan, Mrs. St. Cloud has a matter of very grave im-
port to converse with you about. She has had the misfor-
tune to lose some articles of jewelry, which she thinks were
stolen from her in Washinaton City.-a watch and 'ring,
worn by her husband in l~is lifetime, and hence highly prized
by her. She says they were stolen by a person calling him-
self son of the iDuke de Castro, an~ hearing that an indi-
vidual by that name was here, has come to z~scertain if he is
the same."
"My dear madam," said Vaughan, "I hope you do not
I"
intend to ruin yourself by insinuating any thing so disgra~.
ful as that, of the young Duke John !"
5

'4,

1

*11" ~


130        PLAYING    F01~ AMUSEMENT.
"I intend nothing personal to myself-certainly not my
ruin. But I wish to get my property, and will do more than
brave a duke's displcasu~e to regain it. I do not know
whether the man who stole my-jewelry is the one who passes by
that name here or not. If he be, his pretension to blood
and title~ will not save him, unless he delivers up the articles
stolen. In pursuit of relics, sacred tis those are to me, I
cannot be frightened by exclamation-points."
Vaughan felt rebuked, and said, by way of ap logy:
"Madam; excuse my vehe~nence; I was startled at so grave
a charge against so high a personage."
"rdo not know," resumed Mrs. St. Cloud, "that he is the
same. I have not seen him. The man I speak of is about
your size, with small delicate hands, rather feminine features,
and soft musical voice. He' complains of a wound re cived
in battle, he says, and faints with great case and grace in the
presence of ladies."
"The same, madam, unquestionably. But there mtst be
some mistake. Some adroit scoundrel has committed the
deed, and managed to throw suspicion on the Duke."
"There can be no mistake as to who opened my trunk,"
replied Mrs. St. Cloud; "' the only question is; whether this
is the man. All I desire, Mr. Vaughan, is to get~ possession
again of the watch and ring; the trifle of money I[ care
nothing about. You may mention my terms to him; and
you may likewise say to him that flight is next to impossible,
for I have a sentinel who will not let him escape. My coin-
plaint is written out and ready to be sworn to, and unless my
articles are forthcoming before to-morrow morning, he will
be put under arrest."
Vaughan, to use a Southernism, was thunderstruck. The
calm, resolute woman had unsettled his faith in the immacu-
lacy of his Duke. The possibility of his being an impostor
began t9 force itself upon his 'credulity, whether he would or

PLAYING Poa AMUSE~IENT               131
not, and the part he had played, innocently enough, it is
true, pressed upon him. But when he reflected upon the
evidences of his genuineness, his recognition by officers and
soldiers of the Mexican war, his letters from the leading men
of the country, and his duke-like appearance, he felt that
there could be no mistake.
With these conflicting feelings, he called at the Duke's
room. lIe explained, in as delicate a manner as possible,
what he had heard from Mrs. St. Cloud, spoke of her high
standing, etc., and was greatly relieved when Duke John
laughed at the whole thing as a good joke, and proposed to
visit Mrs. St. Cloud and undeceive her. lie went with the
utmost cheerfulness to the sitting-room, but as 'he entered,
Mrs. St. Cloud's large Newfoundland dog growled, and,
rising up, walked deliberately up to the Duke and smelt of
um, but, ~t a motion from his mistress, switched his tail
sunk down his head and walled back, and, lying down, put
his head between his outstretched paws, and kept his keen
eye upon the Duke. Don John repeated in the most unem-
barrassed manner what had just been told him; spoke of it
as a trick played upon him by an impostor, of whom lie had
heard before, but whose personations had heretofore always
been of an amusing, pleasant character, this being the first
time he had undertaken to personate him in any thing crim-
inal; that so long as he had tried to personate him by acting
the gentleman, or playing the harlequin, he felt disposed to
let it pass, but as he had descended to infamy, and come
so near involving him, he would take pains to have him
Punished; was very sorry for the loss she had sustained, and
regarded it as a duty he owed to her as well as himself to aid
in regaining~ her property and punishing the thief~ and if
she would be kind enough to give hjm a description of the
impostor, he would take immediate steps to put the police on
his track.

I


132         PLAYING FOR AMTT5EMENT~
"Sir," said Mrs. St. Cloud, with great deliberation, ~you
have only to copy your reflection in the mirror to obtain the
description you desire."
This answer was like an electric shock to all except the
Duke himself~ who remained perfectly composed, seeming
rather to compassionate Mrs. St. Cloud than take ~offence at
what she said.
"Madam," he answered, in his soft, insinuating yoice~ with
just enough of some sort of accent to give a pleasing effect,
"you ver' severe."
At the sound of his voice the Newfoundland got up, smelt
of the Duke, and lay down again.
"Outrageous I" exclaimed Mrs. Corbin. "Infamous! She
1"
ought to be scouted from society.
"Ma, let us go," put in Clara, with her handkerchief to
her face.
"Nevar mm', my tear Mrs. Corbin, she pe in une grand
distress I"
The feeling of the company was all on the side of the
Duke. The dog seemed to notice it-got up and stood beside
his mistress. Mrs. St. Cloud was in no way disconcerted,
but calm and resolute, and in the same deliberate tone
said:
"I am in no need of compassion: you are either the per~
son who stole-"
"Just hear the beldam 1" broke in Mrs. Corbin.
"0, ma I" said the distressed Clara, "have you my sal-
volatile? I shall faint I"
"Don't you i~aint here," said the mother; "this is no time
for fainting ;" a~id rolling up her sleeves as if for action, ad-
vanced a step towards Mrs. St. Cloud. The dog looked hard
at her.
VLiilghan, seeing Mrs. Corbin rally so brusquely up to their
partnership stock, felt bound by all the rules of knighthood

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT~                133
to break a lance in its defence, and turning to Mrs. St. Cloud,
said:
"My dear madam, there is a point beyond which forbe~r~
ance ceases to be a virtue. You are certainly overstepping
the bounds accorded by honorable men to your sex."
The Newfoundland growled, and looked fiercely at Vaughan;
and Ccl. Clarkson, facing him sternly, said:
"Do you know who you are speaking to? Mrs. St. Cloud
is my friend, sir, and cannot be insulted by a gentleman in
my presence; Take back what you have said, young man I"
The company were again electrified. Vaughan was no
coward, and when not off his guard, knew what was due to a
lady, and readily apologized:
"I am sorry, madam, if T said any thing under the im.~
pulse of the moment which may seem rude; it was not my
intention, and Ii ask pardon."
The frankness of Vaughan raised him in the estimation
of Cob Clarkson and Mrs. St. Cloud, but sank him in pro-
portion with Mrs. Corbin and her party, When order was
suffidiently restored for Mrs. St. Cloud t~ go on, she said:
"I was saying, when interrupted, that you are either the
person wl~o stole my property, or you are not. If you are,
there is a sear on your right temple, just under your hair."
"Did you ever 1" exclaimed Mrs. Corbin. "Suppose you
have him stripped to the skin and his person examined. Per-
haps you can mention some other private marks about him.
Try if you can't."
Clara screamed, and as Vaughan was standing near enough
to catch her, tainted in his arms, and was borne to the sofa.
But the crowd was too great, and the dramatic scene then
act~~ too interesting, for a tainting to create a sensation. .No
one but Frank seemed to notice her- save the Newfoundland:
he walked up, putting his nose close to her dress, looked


134

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

wistfully in her face a moment, and then took his place at
the feet of his mistress.
).~uring the whole scene, Mrs. ~t. Cloud had kept her seat,
her maid standingg at th~ backof her chair, the others stand-
ing around in different parts of the room.
Clara had sense enough to see that her part had not
been acted well; but she and Frank had a little comedy
off in a corner, at thd sofa, by themselves. lie took ad-
vantage of her supposed insensibility to press his lips to
her hand, and she had sensation enough left to return the
pressure, and thank him for his sympathy.
"It is ver' strange," said the Duke; "me got une leetle
scar dar ;" raising his hair and .exposing it. "Me like to see
dat second self to me. Me like you fine him, so me see him."
Mrs. St. Cloud was the only person who doubted the Duke's
identity. It was impossible, they argued, that a guilty man
could affect the innocence hc had displayed throughout the
trying scene; and as she did not wish to prolong the inter-
view, by way of closing the conversation, she turned to the
Duke, saying:
"I desire very much to get my property, not for its in-
trinsic value, but for the associations connected with it, and
will pay twice its value to recover it, and I will add-."
"No, no, no; me will adt, me will adt twice dat sum for
de watch and de ring."
"I was going to add," said Mrs. St. Cloud, paying no other
notice to the interruption than to wait until it ceased, and
speaking in a quiet uniform tone, "that there is but one Don
John de Castro, and you must either produce the counterfeit
Don John, or my property, or else go to jail."
The excitement upon hearing this was almost too great to
bear. Mrs. Corbin raved, Clara fainted again with better
success, and' the Newfoundland got up and stood close to his

I

PLAYING POI~ AMUSEMENT

135
mistress, and whined in her face, and her friends gathered
about her ~ind expostulated. They tried to persuade her that
the Duke had offered to do all lie could.~.that he was even
more deserving sympathy than she, as he had been seriously
compromised by a designing rascal taking advantage of an
accidental resemblance to him to personate him in an act of
villainy-that her anxiety to ~regain a much~treasured relic
had betrayed her into wounding the fine sensibilities of a man
who was too much of a gentleman to retort. All to no pur-
pose: she adhered to her resolution.

*1

t

135


136        FLAYING FOR AMIIS]~MENT.

CHAPTER XVI.

O for a forty parson power
To chant thy praise, Hypocrisy.
]3YUoN.

TIlE matter furnished a fine dish of gossip, and Mrs. St.
Cloud got the worst end of the bargain. Every one present
felt a deep interest in the Duke; they had all in one way or
another taken stock in him, and could not consent that it
should depreciate. They were anxious that the Duke should
be a Duke, and he acted so much like a Duke in his eonver~
station with Mrs. St. Cloud, that they were better satisfied
with him than ever.
That night, after the hotel was all still, and a majority of
the visitors asleep, the whole house was aroused by a tremen-
dous running and noise i~i the hail along the gentlemen's
apartment. Each boarder jumped up, and, poking his head
out of his door, saw the Newfoundland with the Duke's car-
pet-sack and breeches, streaking it for his mistress's room in
the apartment occupied by the ladies, hotly pursued by the
Duke in his silk-shirt and dVawers. As one and another
would put his head out and see the race, they would roar
out, "Ha, ha, ha! go it, Duke! go it, Ponto I" And here
* went Ponto, and here went the Dpke. It was nip and tack,
but the Duke gained on him. Ponto was too heavily weighed
* to run well. The crowd followed after; Poiito turned into
' the ladies' department, and the ladies looked out to see the
- cause of the noise; but the Duke, desperately determined

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                13~
upon reclaiming his goods, was not embarrassed by his nude
state, but *dashed ahead; Ponte could not get down stairs
well; he would embarrass himself by treading on the breeches,
and the Duke kept gaining on him, and the shouts, "Ha, ha,
ha! go it, Ponto! go it, Duke !" grew louder and faster, and
the crowd larger. At last, just as the dog entered the last
.4reteh, the hall upon which his, mistress's room was situated,
the Duke so fir gained upon him as to plant his foot upon
his breeches. This brought the race to a stop. The New-
foundland was determined not to lose his dry-goods, and plant-
ing his foot upon them, turned square upon his pursuer with
a resolution which checked the Duke's impetuosity, but only
for a moment; he was determined to "do or die," and seized
his pants, but as he did so, the dog seized him, and, what was
worse, he would not let any one else approach, until Mrs. St.
Cloud's maid came put, to whom he delivered ~he things. As
the maid picked th 1m up, and the Duke stepped forward to
demand then~, the og stepped before him and growled. The
singular behavior of the animal satisfied every one that there
must be some cause for his conduct, and they determined to
have an examination. The Duke begged of them not to ex~
pose his wardrobe in that way, but to give them to Colonel
Olarkson, and let him examine them; that there was nothing
which he was unwilling for him or any one else to see, but
begged that he~hould not be made the sport of a mob~ raised
in behalf of a dog. It was agreed that Colonel Clarkson
should go with the rac erg, the Duke and Ponto, to the Duke's
room, and examine the Duke's wardrobe, and either satisfy
Ponto of his mistake , or reward him for his fidelity. Clark-
son remained but a short time in the room, when he and
Ponto came out. Ponto was satisfied-..decidedly in a good
humor-land trotted along before Mr. Clarkson a few steps,
and then would turn around, look up and bark, and wag his
bushy tail, and so. on, repeating his motions until Clarkson


i38

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

got to his own room. ~Ponto seemed disappointed at his em.
tearing there, but went with him. He soon came out with
something in his mouth, very much like a note, and went
with, long jumps, his shaggy tail swaying behind hi~,to his
mistress's, room. At his scratch, the door was opened, and
an exclamation, very much like one of pleasure, was heard.
With this, the curious had to be content the balance of the
night.
To all the questions asked him in the morning, Colonel
Clarkson laughed at the ludicrous scene, and gave evasive am.
swers, as if all was a farce, and nothing noteworthy in it.
Frank Vaughan feeling the great depreciation of the cap-
ital stock of the firm, called early upon the ensuing morning
to see the other two members. The protestations of the older
member, and her tirade against Mrs. St. Cloud, failed to in-
spire confidence; but the smiles of Clara assured him that
though the capital stock might be a dead loss, the firm was
not entirely bankrupt. He noticed that she was by no means
oblivious to the sofa scene of the evening previous, and by a
number of telegraphic communications, known only to those
who are learned in the mysteries of love, she made him un-
derstand that she recognized the assault he had made upon
the castle, and that the keys were in his hands. As flatter-
ing as this was to his vanity, it was going ahead a little too
fast for Vaughan. His opinion of Miss Clara had been tried
in the loss of~ the Puke's, and the Duke's good opinion being
below par just then, other things which were dependent upon
his opinion were also under par. He was therefore not ex-
actly prepared to accept the surrender, and not altogether
satisfied with this new position affairs were taking.
As the desire for a matrimonial union with the Puke
cooled with Mrs. Corbin, and Vaughan's chances of repre-
senting the Republic of Mexico at the Court of St. James
began to vanish, the firm' of Vaughan &amp; Co. suffered the

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT..

139

drafts of the Duke upon them to be dishonored; who, find-
ing himsAf out of character and out of funds, stole Frank's
watch and a small amount of money, and left for New
Orleans, leaving his board and other bills unpaid, and the
following letter, addressed to the finn of Vaughan &amp; Co.;
MESSRS. VAUGHAN &amp; Co. :-The best of friends must
part; and Ii take advantage of the sad occasion of our sepa-
ration, perhaps for ever, to renew to you the expression of
my thanks and gratitude for the many favors received from
you, as individuals, and as a firm. The junior and Frank
Vaughan, Esq., have been especially kind; and it may seem
a refinement upon meanness for me to steal Vaughan's watch
and money; but the fact is, after my foot-race with Ponto,
I have been without a watch or the means to buy one, and
had not means left, after your firm had been compelled to
suspend further operations on my account, to defray my
travelling expenses, else I should have parted company with
you sooner. ii hope he will not be inconvenienced by the
loss. The junior must allow me to continue to wear her
diamond i~i ng ns a souvenir. I would be pleased to exchange
rings with her, but for my "temporary poverty." Though
Ii may not be able to redeem my pledge to Frank Vaughan,
Escp, to have him appointed Minister Resident at the Court
of St. James from the Republic of Mexico, if he will visit
me at my shop in Vera Cruz, I will dress his hair, and give
his chin as clean a shave as I hav~ given his purse and
pocket. Please accept the assurances of my continued
regard; and if either of you should over visit Vera Cruz,
be sure to call upon Your friend,
DON JOhN DR CASTRO J)E NAYIDAD,
Alias CAILLOs, THE BARBER.
P. S.-May I trouble you to give my kindest regards to
Mr. Broadhead, and my other numerous admirers and friends


140

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

in Bluff City, who feasted and toasted, dined and wined me
upon the occasion of my very agreeable visit there. Barring
the newness of every thing, the champagne and cigars in-
cluded, the dinners were fine. -
N. B.-Miss Clara need have no fears of that stain upon
her shawl. It is not blood, neither that of a Duke nor of a
barber; but a little colored matter that will do no harm.
What a denouement for our fashionable~!
The watch, the purse, the ring, were not thought of. A
barber! Horrible! If he would only reinstate himself in
his title, be a Duke again, he might lie and cheat and steal
to his full-do any thing he pleased but become a barber
That was too much!
It was a fall; a fall that made pride and vanity weep with
vexation.
The members of the late firm of Vaughan &amp; Co. were not
long in discovering that the watering-place was not a~ all
suited to their constitutions, and that sea-bathing in no way
relieved the malady with which they were suffering, and
packed up an~l left for honie. Mrs. Corbin and the late
junior, upon the dissolution oC the firm of Vaughan &amp; Co.,
and the likelihood of its entire bankruptcy, felt still more the
necessity of the new partnership between the younger meni-
hers of the old dismembered firm, and managed so to take
advantage of the distracted state of mind in which their unfor-
tunate speculation in imported stock had plunged Frank, to
cause him, by manner, and an occasional smile, to treat the
"sofa scene" as a plight of faith; at which, in his cool
moments, he was alarmed and pained. Events ha&amp; hurried
him along so confusedly that in thd bustle he had mistaken
a common feeling of humiliation, sympathy, and shame, for
a more tender and lasting passion, and permitted the mother
and daughter to treat him as afflanced to Clara, without his

U

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

141

having formally declared himself her lover, or any words of
b     love         The            an
eno~ao'ement or p1edo~e of  spoken.     piercing oi
arrow through his heart would not have pained him more
than tbis thought. In his infatuation, when he .~aw her
caressed and flattered by a Duke, and a ministry to England
in prospect for him, and life a long, foolish, but sweet
romance, he had the ambition of cutting out a Duke; but
when he awoke from this dream of romance, and looked upon
the dusty, every-day track of life, which lie had to tread
along with every-day folks, the thought of taking a mere
butterfly along with him upon such a dull, plodding way,
one without perfume and without flowers, made him shudder
and grow sick at heart. And yet he saw but little chance
of its being otherwise. The mother and daughter were just
suffering one distressing humiliation, and lie could not add
another to it. Besides, he had so long acquiesced in their
recognition of an engagement, that he was not at liberty to
treat it otherwise, and determined, to trust to the develop
ments of the future for means to shape his course, hoping
that some more dashy lover might take her off his hands
otherwise, lie should sacrifice his happiness ~o his honor, and
marry her.
The mock Duke managed, by disguising himself:, to escape
to New Orleans. Neither of the members of the late firm
took any steps to hayc him arrested. They were but too
anxious that lie should escape to his barber-shop, where they
might never hear of him again, and their nannies become dis-
connected froni his, an all memory of their trau~actions on
his account forgotten, and feared nothing more than his
arrest. But the affar as too notorious to escape remark,
and the vigilant police f New Orlehns, eager to overtake so
notorious a rascal and ii poster, and also to serye the distin-
buished personages w o had been made his dupes, soon got
upon his track, and as he was about going aboard of a ship


142     PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

bound for Vera Cruz, he was arrested. Very soon thereafter
each of the members of the late firm of Vaughan &amp; Co. were
chagrined and distressed beyond measure to be served, while
upon a visit in the Magnolia State, with an attachment to
appear and give evidence in the case of the State of Louis-
iana vs. Carlos, alias Don John de Castro de Niwidad.
There was no help for it; they were compelled to go. and
testify. It was rather a novel case, and the curiosity of the
judge was as much piqued as that of the bystanders, and he
extended the largest latitude to counsel in the examination
of witnesses, and the three ~speculators were forced by little
and little to go over and ove~~ again the entire history of their
business transactions with ti~ e Duke, down to the most tedi-
ous and mortifying deyls. ~To make matters worse, a young
fluent lawyer, who had be 4ome rather pleased with Miss
Clara, and was ambitious attract her and her mother's
favorable regard, and believing the best way to do that was
to ~ to punishment the villain who had
prosecute and brino'
plundered and swindled thdm, volunteered to make a speech
in the case. There was such a jam in the court-house that
Mrs. Corbin saw no chance of wedging herself through it,
and was compelled to listen while the eloquent young bar-
rister portray-ed with emphasis and in swelling, poetic sen-
tences the outrage and wrong practiced by the prisoner upon
the "fair daughter of a sister State." The stealing the
watclv was nothing, the stealing th0 money was nothing? fijr
"he that steals my purse, steals trash; 'twas mine, 'tis his,
and has been slave to thousands; but he that steals away the
young affections of a but too eonfidhmg fair one, steaJs that
which cannot enrich the thief but leaves her 'poor indeed."'
Thinking that he must of course rise in the affections of the
mother and daughter as he rose in his eloquence, he de-
nounced the Duke as the serpent insinuating himself into
Eden, quoting largely from Milton and other English classics;

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.'              143
told how the modern Eve listened to his persuasive voice,
the influence of his imposing title upon the mother, anxious,
as all mothers were and ought to be, to secure eligible.
matches for their daughters, especially the first-born of her
love, etc., until Mrs. Corbin could stand it no longer; and
though a member of the Church, and an habitual observer
of the proprieties of life, she lost her patience, piety, and
dignity, and springing up, exclaimed, loud enough to be
heard by all but the speaker,
"What does the confounded fool mean ?"
He noticed that he created a sensation, and construing it
into applause, mended his hold, and dashed off into new
heroic~. Mrs. Corbin made a vigorous effort to push a way
for herself and daughter, aided by Frank Vaughan, through
the human wall around her, but it was in vain, and she had
no alternative left, and had to hear the young Qrator through.
The barber was convicted, and sentenced to seven years'
imprisonment.
The eloquence of the young barrister had a, very different
effect upon Clara from that of the mother. , His frequent
allusions to her beauty, innocence, and trusting simplicity,
"Charms," he said, "that might very well attract a duke,
that might even tempt a barber to counterfeit a duke, and if
he had acted thus under such a temptation, he might have
excused him, for such a face would tempt a saint to sin," etc.,
had flattered her vanity and carried her fancy captive; and
the sn~ile she gave him when he offered his arm to lead her
from the court-room was full compensation for the crustiness
of the mother.


144     PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

CHAPTER XVII.
"Come, and trip it as you go,
On the light, fantastic toe."
SOON after Mrs. Corbin's return from th~e ill-starred witness-
stand, a grand ball was announced to be given by the military
~company, whose marching and counter-marching, "red-striped
trousers" and red plumes had long been the admiration of
the fair of Bluff City. All the beauty and chivalry of the
town and surrounding country were expected to be there in
full display. Amid the hurry and bustle of such an occa-
sion, the rustling of fine dresses, the cracking of coach-
whips, and the tramp along the side - walks, friend Piper
might have been seen, whip in hand, pushing~ along in the
crowd. As he was dashing ahead, a young gentleman called
to him, and handing him a neat little package, said:
"I will trouble you, if you please, to hand these to your
daughters."
Piper was excited-gave a sort of knowing look of inquiry
at the young many but received no knowing look in return.
The young man was not a dealer in horse-flesh, and had no
horse-trader looks to answer horse-trading questions. Piper's
impatience would not permit him to wait until he got home
to learn what the neat little package was; and hoping, doubt-
ing, fearing, he darted along to a place of concealment and
opened it. Yes, it was as he hoped-" the girls" were invited
to the ball! He had talked about the matter with Betsy,
and both hoped "the girls" would be invited, but both

feared they might not. His fears were all gone, and with a
light heart. he put the notes of invitation in his pocket, and
with light heels Gilpin galloped home. So glibly did he
gallop that passers-by exclaimed, "Hi! Piper must be in
luck to-day; he and Gilpin are in good spirits."
Betsy and "the girls" noticed directly that things had.
gone well with him. They collected around to hear the
news. He was fidgety, and frisked about in a provokingly
unsatisfactory way. Pet walked coaxingly up to him, and,
putting his arm around her, he walked about the room in
high spirits.
"What would you give to go to the ball ?" he asked.
"0! have you got tickets ?" exclaimed all at once, and
rushed at him; and such a romp and race as they had!
"Ha! get away from here, you wild colts !" and he
twisted to frde himself. "What will you give for tickets,
heh ?"

After a good deal of scuffling and twisting' about, and a
number of "ho, ho, hos" from Piper, Betsy came to the aid
of the girls:
"Mr. Piper, what makes you do so? Why don't you give
the girls their tickets? I know you've got them."
This brought the tickets; and they were read and re-read,
and then read over again, and finally carefully folded and put
in the card-ease.
If those who give feasts could have seen how happy a very
little attention had made four very deserving but neglected
young ladies, in giving feasts they would not overlook the
humble simply because they are humble, but would oftener
set a chair for them at their tables. Coarseness and vulgar-
ity are by n6 means necessary attendants upon lowliness and
poverty; no more apt to be found tl~ere than among the rich
and proud.
"We can go, can't we, pa ?" they asked.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.    145

145

144


146      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

"1 don't know, my daughters. I'll think about it;" not
willing to admit to himself how miieh'pleased he was to have
it in his power to decide whether they could go or not, and
ho~v anxious he was an hour previous to have them go.
"Yes, you can go. What do you want to tease the girls
nor? You know you expect them to go," said Betsy.
j' Say yes, pa," entreated Pet.
"Well, yes; ydu may all go."
There was as much rummaging among the scanty wardrobes
of Piper's four daughters for "something to wear," as among
the dry-goods shops for something to please the moic liberal
and extravagant votaries of fashion. "Ma, what shall III
wear ?" "Pa~, wont you get me a new dress ?" "1 have
nothing that is fit to weary" were some of the volley of sen-
tences which made Piper almost regret the invitation.
Betsy made out a list of the articles that were indispensable
for even a passable appearance at a bran-dance or a Fourth
of July barbecue, and showed it to Piper, with the request
that he would let her have the means to purchase them.
Piper looked at it, gave a loud whistle, and refused.
"The girls are bound to have something to wear, or they
can't go to the ball," said Betsy.
"Where are all the dresses they had last spring and sum-
mer, and this fall ?"
"All that are not worn out are soile , and not fit to
wear."
"Where are the dresses they wore at our parties ?"
"They are worn thin, and have been washed two or three
times and cannot be refined so as to look decent."
"Well, IL can't help it; I am not going to break myself to
dress them up for a ball. However, as it is their first ball,
they shall' have something nice. Here is seven dollars and
a half: take it, and buy their ball-dre~ses. It shan't be my
fault if they don't look as well as other people's daughters."

I~LAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.               147
Betsy took the seven dollars and a half; and went to pur-
chase the ball gear of fo~r young ladies. She was not a bad
hand to shop, and could make seven dollars and a half go as
far as anybody, when she exerted herself; and on this occa-
sion she swore each dollar to do its best. She made the
clerks jump about, and kept them as busy as if she had
* hundreds to spend; calling for this, and rejecting that, and
telling what this was for, and who that wa~ for. She was
full of real good mother~wit, which she coul make as sharp
as old vinegar; and when one of the clerks would grow tired
of waiting upon her, and 'go slovenly about her commands,
she would let off her cracked voice a~ him, with a piece of
wit that made him spring as if stung by a whip-lash. With
her seven dollars and a half she loaded herself and the
daughter she took with her; and when the articles were all
opened and spread out at home, upon the cheaply=furni~he~~
bed, and viewed in contrast with the litter and trash about
the room, it was astonishing how well it all looked, and how
much there was of it. She had managed to get enough for
three new dresses, and remnants enough to fix up an old one.
Upon the evening of the party, an old bachelor brother of~
Mrs. Pipei', Richard Spence-called "Uncle Dick," by "the
girls," and "the girls' Uncle Dick," by Betsy and Piper-
went out to attend them to the ball. He was a plain, blunt,
good-natured old soul, and had s~en a good deal of 'what was
called "good society;" that is, was generally invited to the
parties about town, and was a welcome visitor at the houses
of the rich and fashionable. Why he should have been thus
welcome, would be di~cult to teU, unless it was owing to his
good temper an~ good principles and blunt ways; for he was'
neither rich nor handsome. The fashionable planing-mill
had failed to smooth him off; except on top of the head,
which was very bald and very smooth, lie was fond of
"the girls," and was anxious to see them look well 'and


148

PLAYING FOR A1'4TJSEMENT.

appear well;' and, as Piper had informed him how busy they
all were, fixing and getting ready, and complained over and
over again how exp~nsivO it was to fit out four young ladies
for a ball, he expected when they caine down ready dressed
to seq them elegantly attired, and gave rather too round an
expression to his disappointment:
"Goo~1 Lord, Piper! you are not' going to let the girls go
to the ball in that sort of toggery ?"
"Why, what is the matter with it? I never saw them
look any better; I never saw them look as well before. I
gave Betsy seven dollars and a half, and told her to use the
whole of it in buying dresses and such other things a~ they
needed."
"Seven dollars and a half! A hundred would not have
been enough."
"The free use of your hundreds is the reason you are not
worth more. If you had taken better care of your hundreds,
you might be rich."
"Fiddlesticks! I wish I'd knoWn they had nothing better
to wear; II would have bought th~tm something myself I'll
be smashed if I go one step toward the balJ."
"The girls" gathered around a~ d entreated him:
"0 Uncle Dick, don't say that! It is too late to better
it now, and our dresses will do well enough."
His anger was not of long duration, and he was provoked
at himself for marring the anticipated pleasure of the young
ladies by his ill-timed remark, and tried to destroy its damp-
ening effect as well as he could.
They were anxious to hurry to the ball as early as possible,
and were deaf to "Uncle Dick's" assurances that it was much
too early--that the 6lite would not be there for two hour~ or
more, and refused to listen to his advice to "wait for the
mttsic," and arrived among the first. It was some time before
the more successful ~votaries of fashion arrived, and "the

PLAY I~G   FOR AMUSEMENT.              149
girls" had a joyous time of it; but as the room' began to fill
with the b~au~nionde, they began to recollect Uncle Dick's
exch~mation about their "toggery,?' and a keen sense of the
disagreeable contrast cut short their fun; but or4y for a
short tim e. They had not been to balls enough to know~ that
each one is employedd about him or herself too much to notice
others, unless it be in something very superior. And they
were relieved to find that they were not objects of attention-.
a circumstance that grieved Piper not a little. He thought
his "girls" were certain to create a sensation; that all they
needed was an opportunity, in order to make a stir in the
fashionable world, especially 'Pet. He expected the morning
after their introduction into society-and this was the intro-
duction-he would be troubled by any amount of offers from
marrying young men for their hands, and had conned over
in his mind what ho should say in reply: 'how he should play
coy; the fond father; what a happy, love.~boi~nd circle at
home; how reluctant to have it broken; how tenderly they
had been raised; never known harshness or sorrow; never
thought what it was to yield up his child to another; but
0
&amp;ivls must marry; the world must be peopled; and, sad as it
was, fathers had to give up their children; and, as it was a
thing that had to be done, though it was like sapping the
springs of life, he knew of no one to whom lie would sooner
intrust their happiness, etc. rut, as it was, the evening was
passing away, and they were passing without notice, and he
deterniined to exert himself; and doing so, soon had their
dancing cards filled. Nothing occurred to mortify them;
and, if they had not satisfied Piper's ambition, they wei'e
satisfied with themselves; and after forgetting their plain
attire, which was soon lost in the novelty and fascination of
every thing which surrounded them, they were as happy as
young and innocent hearts could be; and Uncle Dick, observ-
ing their bright faces, and wishing to atone for the damper


150         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT~
he had so uiifeelingly thrown upon them in the early part of
the evening, was very attentive.
The ball-room was extensive and brilliantly lightod-not
by gas, for at that period the city had no gas-and the as-
sembly of beauty unusually large, even for Bluff City, so
renowned for her handsome daughters. There were belles
of all kinds and shades-tall and low ones; fair ones and
brown; rich ones and poor ones; witty ones and grave. In
a pause in the music, as the sets were forming, a slight stir
was noticed near the door, and gradually increased until it
became general throughout the saloon. It was occasioned by
the entrance of Mrs. St. Cloud and her daughter. As they
moved down the ro.on~ in search of a seat, or place to stand,
a universal whisper greeted them-" What a beautiful crea-
ture !" "What a lovely face I" "Who is she ?" "how
fair !" "What a face I" "What eyes !"--from belles and
beaux. She was soon the centre of general attraction--the
belles to know and to welcome her, and the beaux to secure
her hand in the dance. The other belles soon found them-
selves objects of secondary interest; but such was the homage
paid to the exquisitely fair and unconsciously beautiful Alice,
that no feeling of rivalry or jealousy was awakened. Even
Miss Clara, in the face of her mother's savage commentary,
yielded her the palm. The homage paid was as sincere as it
was involuntary, and received without a sensation or expres-
sion df vanity. Neither by look, nor word, nor action, did
she give evidence of the slightest consciousness of being the
shrine at which the beauty, chivalry, and talent of her child-
hood's home kneeled and gave the heart's earnest, truthful
offering. She was only conscious of being very happy, and
of everybody being very l4nd. This was the real secret of
her power; it was what extracted the tooth of envy and
silenced the tongue of the fault-finder. Her beauty was
.beyond the power of words, because it was not in the features;

a sculptor might chisel them, or they might be copied in
wax-work, or an artist might paint them, but neither would
be Alice St. Cloud. As well might one try to describe a
sweet strain of music that thrilled the soul and carried the
will captive, as to describe in what her beauty insistedd. it
was not ethereal, and y~t it did not seem to hav~e the impress
of mortality; it was not like fruit blushing on the limb, and
yet it had all its lusciousness; it was not like the lily droop-
ing on the stein, and ye~ it was, just as fair; her face was
white as a snow-flake, with a blush of the rose coming and
0
going at pleasure, and lit up by a pair of as soft black eyes
as ever illumined the "human face divine," and all derived
expression from her heavy mass of glossy black hair. While
others were bending the knee to her, Frank Vaughan bent
his whole soul; her smile, gentle as that which the moon~
beam flings on the lake, entranced him, and for the fir~t time
in his life he was wounded, and wounded to the death, by
Cupid's arrow. lie longed for freedom to lay his hand, his
heart, his all, at her feet, but honor forbade. He had allowed
another to consider him a~ her affianced, and was too honorable
to humiliate her before the public by declaring the truth and
breaking with her. He preferred to suffer himself rather
than to make her suffer. The image of Alice was as deeply
engraved upon his heart as Galais was said to be upon the
heart of "bloody Mary ;" and he had the satisfaction during
the evening of noticing that she~ was not insensible to his
silent admiration.
Ther~ is a sympathy between hearts made for each other
that cannot well be explained, and the scent of their mutual
regard, like murder, "will out." Thoiio~h neither Vaughan
nor Alice had said a#iy thing or did an~7 thing that betokened
lpve or regard for each other, they both left the ball-room
that night with the self-satisfied assurance that neither was
an object of indifference to the other. It was strange to

t

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     151


152

FLAYING FOR AMUSEM:ENT.

Alice how she should, without having made Vaughan a
subject of conversation that she was aware of, become pos-
sessed during the evening of a full knowledge of his history,
and the relation he sustained to Miss Clara Corbin. In her
simple, honest heart she congratulated Clara upon her choice,
and none who knew the quick beating of her pulse at the
mention of his name will blame her if she turned a shade
whiter, if possible, at the thought of his choice.
Among the many who had gathered there to "chase the
hours with flying feet," none entered more fully into the
spirit of the occasion, or abandoned herself more entirely to
the exhilaration of the music, than Mrs. Smith, the accom-
plished and engaging wife of our jolly friend, the lawyer.
She was fond of the society of young people, and they were
equally fond of hers. She had been married about six years,
and had three interesting and healthy children; was idola-
trously attached to her husband, though their tastes seemed
to be altogether different, or ratl~er they were the same, but
sought different modes of expressing and gratifying them.
They were both fond of pleasure, but he found his at the
table and cards, while she found hers in the dissipation of
the young and gay. She was not exactly gay, but cheerful
and light-hearted, and had never had a greater weight "on
the heart than she could shake off at the heels," as she had
often boasted~ She was in unusually high spirits on the even-.
ing of the party, and while whirling away in the dance with
heart light and spirits gay, she all at once started and uttered
a low wail. Her friends gathered around and eagerly inquired:
"My dear Mrs. Smitl~! what is the matter ?"
"0 my I" she sighed, and breathed freer.
"What can be the matter? Are you sick? Let mc send
for a doctor?"
"0 no! It is nothing, nothing at all," she laughingly
answered.

U

FLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                .153
"Something must be the matter. What makes you act so?"
"I had forgotten the dance, and my imagination or fancy
was running riot to keep up with the waltz, I suppose, when
I was startled by a most frightful picture. I thought i[ saw
some one lying on a bier all covered with blood, and it looked
like Mr. Smith."
"Mrs. Smith !" exclaimed a dozen at once.
"Pshaw! it is nothing. Silva," (her waiting-maid,) "go
and see where your master is."
The girl soon returned, informing her that he was with
Col. CThxkson and some friends, near by, and seemed to b&amp;
enjoying himself as much a~ his wife. Mrs. Smith put in
practice her proverb, and went to work to shake from her
heels the load on her heart, and very soon succeeded.
Mrs. Smith had to send a servant in search of her husband
because she felt assured that, when found, he would be where
ladies were not expected to go. It may seem strange to some,
that husbands, and fathers, and brothers should frequent a
place so disreputable as that their wives, daughters, or sisters
would be disgraced to be seen at it. But so it was. A la~l~
removed from the ball-room, up stairs over a ~'espectctblc
drinking-house, the servant found a number of the husbands
and fathers and brothers, whose wives and daughters and
sisters were left to the entertainment of others, seated at
little round tables, with money, and cards, and brandy before
them, playing fur amusement and betting to count the game;
and the i~egro was astonished how much money it took to
count with ;~ and was equally astonished to hear disputes all
around the room about cheating, unfair count, etc.; and
gentlemen whose word she thought would have been taken for
thousands~ disputing with each other about a dQllar. But so
it was: a gentleman whose word, in all the legitimate trans-
actions of life, was worth any amount that might be staked
on it, found it questioned by his most trusty friend, for the

L

9


~154

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

'paltry sum of a dollar. Nothing seems to develop the baser
feelings of man's nature more than cards. Let the game be
for what it may, and the players as trustworthyas they may,
disputes about niatters the most trifling will arise, and often
become serious.
Sniith sat at a table with Col. Clarkson, Floyd, Blunt,
Isaacs, Orr, and a young friend and prot6g6 of Isaacs, called
"Bud," a diminutive little fellow, and of whom Isaacs was
very fond, and from whom he would bear almost any thing.
A large amount of brandy had been drunk as well as money
lost, and "Bud" would have been called drunk, if a prot6g6
of Isaacs could have been called so with impunity. Isaacs
himself had drunk but little; Smith had drunk more than
common, and was as mellow as a ripe apple, and as good-
humored as brandy could make him. ~'Bud" was drunk
enough to be quarrelsome, and accused one and another about
the board of cheating, but directed his accusations mainly at
Isaacs.
"Colonel, you cheated."
"You are mistaken, Bud." His voice trembled a little,
and hi~ face colored.
"No, by -~-, I am not mistakefi. You did cheat."
" You are mistaken."
"You did n't deal the cards fair. You shall deal them
over again," and dashes up his hand.
"You are drunk, Bud; and too small physically for inc to
resent what you say.~~
"Deal the cards, and don't be talking."
Isaacs trembled with rage, and was almost blind with pas-
sion, and in dealing made a mistake, and failed to give Bud
his full complement of cards, at which Bud again accused him
of cheating.
"You are mistaken, Bud. You are too infernally drunk to
know when you l~ave your full complement of cards."

/
PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

155

"Bud is right this time," said Smith, counting over Bud's
cards, and meaning simply that he was right in not having
received his full complement. Col. Tsaacs regarded it as an
endorsement of Bud's charge of cheating, and springing up,
his hair bristling abouL his head, roared out like an enraged
lion
"By -; that is just what T wanted to hear! I have not
resented the repeated insults of that boy because he was a
boy, but you are a man."
And before Smith had~time to explain, Isaacs smote him
with his open hand upon his right cheek, and then upon the
left with the other hand; and telling him where he could*
find him, if he desired to wipe out the insult, turned and left
the room.
The insult was public, and, according to the Southern
sense of honor, too gross to be atoned for by an apology; and
if it were not, Tsaacs wa~ not the man to make one, without
some explanation from Smith, which, according to the
"Code," he could not make, smarting, as he was, 'under next
to the greatest insult one gentlen~an could offer to another.
No alternative was therefore left to Smith but a peremptory call
upon Jsaacs for satisfaction; and Col. Clarkson was asked to
bear from him a hostile message to Jsaacs. It was a new
game for Col. Clarkson to play, and the stake was the life of
two of his friends. He lunch preferred not to take a hand
in such a game. He could play for amusement, and bet to
count the game, but he desired to bet money; but in the game
he was expected to take a hand in, human life was the stake,
and honor the forfeit! What would Amy, the wife of his bosom,
say, with her pleading face turned up to his? What woi4d
his angel daughter say, when she heard it? And, above all,
what would the agonized wife say?, He would have turned
away,: but the hand was dealt out to him, and he must play
it, or be false to his friend. He waited upon Isaacs with the

V


150      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.       157

note, and was referred to Captain Orr, as Js~acs' friend. As
delay in such matters expressed timidity or a desire to obtain
some trifling advantage in the weapon, by practice or some
other way, it was determined that the parties were to fight
on the Louisiana side, opposite Bluff City, at eight o'clock
next morning, with' rifles, at fifty paces. News of the in
tended duel soon spread over the town, but was scrupulously
kept froi~n M rs~ Smith, the person of all others the most
interested.
Early in the morning the ferry-boat and skiffs were ~ross-
ing the river, carrying over crowds curious to sec men in
deadly combat, with niuch the same feeling that whole owns
and villages in Spain turn out to see a bull-fight. The prin-
cipals, with their seconds, were upon the ground, prom t to
the hour.
Capt. Orr takes Col. Clarlison to one side; they consult
for a moment or two; go to their principals' and lead hem
off a few steps, and talk in a suppressed tone; meet and con-
sult again; walk about and inspect the ground; walk to one
spot, and look at an opposite one; walk to that, and look at
the first; examine if trees or undergrowth or other thing
standing near will aid either party in catching aim; Clarkson
stands at one point, and Orr at the other, and they scan
closely the advantages or disadvantages of either position;
they change positions, and make the same examination; look
at the position of the sun; Ccl. Clarkson takes from his
pocket a tape-line; Capt. Orr takes out his knife, and whit-
tIes to a point two small pegs, and sticks one in the ground;
Col. Clarkson gives Orr one end of the tape-line, and they
measure fifty paces; it stops in an inconvenient place; they
speak a word or two; ~ few steps are added to the distance,
to get a good position to stand, and the other peg is stuck in
the ground; they walk off a few paces; Capt. Orr ha~i~ his
friend's rifle to Col. Clarkson to examine; Clarkson do~ the

same; the guns are returned; a cap is busted on each, to
see if the tubes are clear; they toss up a half dollar for the
word; Clarkson wins, and Orr has choice of pegs; go to
their principals-Col. Isaacs standing by a tree, his nostrils
distended, and a look of blood in his eye, Smith seated at the
root 6'f a tree, looking quietly and thoughtfully; they talk~
in a low' voice to them, and walk with them to the pegs;
meet midway; diverge a little from a righ~ line; take out
their gun-chargers, and show them to each other; fill them
with powder, and show to each other, 4nd turn them in 'the
muzzle; take out a bullet; examine, to see that it is round
and without flaws; show to eacl~ other, and ram them in the
gun, and put on caps; load two other rifles, and put two
well-loaded pistols in their belts; walk to their friends, turn,
and meet in the centre, and, turning at right angles, step
twenty-five paces; Col. Clarkson takes out a paper, and says:
"Gentlemen, II will now read you the terms of the duel:
Item 1. The parties are to fight at eight o'clock. on the
morning of the - day of , A. ID. ~, opposite Bluff
City, on the Louisiana side, with rifles stocked in the ordi-
nary Kentucky style, and not to be less than thirty-two nor
more than thirty-six inches in the barrel, nor to carry a larger
ball than forty to th~ pound.
"'Item 2. The parties are to stand at a distance of fifty
paces from each other; and the guns to be handed to them
by their principals, cocked, and triggers sprung, and to be
held with the butt to the shoulder used in shooting, the
muzzle pointing a distance of not more than twenty inches
from the forward foot.
"' Item 3. The seconds shall throw up "heads or tails"
for the word; and the party losing the word shall have choice
of positions.
"' Item 4. The word shall be given thus: "Gentlemen,
are you ready ?" If ready, each principal shall say, loud
[


158

PAYING F'OR AMUSEMENT-.

enough tp be heard by the seconds, "Ready ;" when the
second shall say, in a distinct voice, loud enough to be heard
by the principals, "Fire ! one, two, three-stop !" An'd
either party shooting before the word " fire," or after the word
"stop," or who shall oth~erwisezviolate the rules of duelling
in a manner to obtain an advantage of his adversary, shall
forfeit his life; and the second of the opposite party shall
take it at his option.
"' Item 5. After the parties are stationed at the pegs by
their seconds, these rules of the duel shall be read over to
them by the second winning the word.'"
"Will you please call over the word, Col. Clarkson, as you
intend giving it to the parties ?" .asked Capt. Orr.
" Gentlemen, I will give you the word thus: ' Gentlemen,
are you ready ?' You answer, 'Ready.' 'Fire ! one, two,
three-stop!I'"
Clarkson and Orr take to their respective principals their
guns, cock and hand them to them, and return to their places.
The multitude standing around breathe hard, and have a
fixed stare. Isaacs runs his eye along the line to his adver-
sary, fixes itekeenly upon him, compresses his lips, and braces
every muscle. Smith is passive.
"Gentlemen, are you ready ?" rings out clear and start-
ling. Smith looks at Clarkson, and answers, " Ready."
Isaacs fixes his eye steadily upon Smith, and answers,
"Ready." " Fire !" Bang go both guns, before the word
"one."
"Smith is hit !" bursts from a hundred lips. Col. Clark-
son rushes to him, and arrives just in time to' hear him
gurgle forth, a"Tel~ my poor wife and chil----" as he fell
back into his arms a dead man. The ball had gone through
his heart.
The river is again dotted with. skiffs and ruffled by the
ferry-boat, crowded with returning passengers; and her pad~

~Ii

die-wheels splash away in the water, unretarded by the over.
whelming load of grief she bears to the home of the newly.
made and' unconscious widow ! She lands; a hearse is
obtained, and six men bear the jolly, harmless Smith of
yesterday to it, all stark anmd bloody. The hearse rumbles
solemnly along' the street, attended by Col. Clarkson and a
fewothr fiens.  heheart of the messenger sent to
preareMrs Snithforthe sad intelligence failed him; and
there she stands, at the window, and wonders whose funeral
procession approaches thus slowly, at which Col. Clarkson is
the chief mourner, all unconscious-that the father of her three
children is thus being borne home to them and her ! Here
was a trial for Col. Clarkson ! And the wail of the overtried
heart, as it broke, and the widowed wife sank upon the body
of her dead husband a raving maniac, still haunts the pillow
of the man who played for amusement, and bet to count t1he
game, and lost the life of his friend.
The victim of innocent play was buried, and a tombstone
with letters cut in it commemorative of some of his virtues
was erected over him, to mark the spot where he lay. But
no one wrote thereon, as a warning to youth: "Beware of
playing for amusement, and betting to count the game !"
The children thus untimely orphaned were kindly cared
for by Colonel Clarkson; but the wife, with her weight of
soi-row, sleeps quiEtly beside her husband ; and the spring
bird that builds its nest in the rose-vine that monthly blooms
over the perishing clay, as it warbles to its mate and its little
ones, sings not of all the grief that lies buried there.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

159


160      LAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

CHAPTER XVIII.
IT was the purpose of Vaughan to avoid temptation; and
as he thought honor and his own~ peace of mind required
that he should not extend his acqt~ai~itance with Miss Alice
St. Cloud, he resolved not to see her again, and had resisted
all the entreaties of his young friends to visit her with them.
One afternoon, when thinking of her, and lameiiting the folly
which had placed a barrier between him and her, and con-
gratulating himself in a sort of irresolute way upon his stoi-
cism in resisting the temptation to see her, Nickols walked
into his office, with his thumbs in the arm-holes of his vest.
"O-ood morning, iNickols. Take a seat."
"lla-a-a-awk--no, I thank you ;" and commenced a pro-
menade back and fro in the room, hawking as he went.
"Come, take a seat, take a seat," insisted Vaughan.
"Ha-a-a-awk-no, no; sit still ;" and takes a turn or two
more, drops into 'a chair, and cocks his feet up over his head.
"Vaughan-ha-a-a-awk-I saw the prettiest piece of hu-
man flesh to-day I ever saw, in so much domestic manufac-
ture-an angel in dry-goods 1"
"AhI Who is she, Nickols ?"'
"That's what I come to ask you--that 's what I want to
know ;" and jumping up, whirls around,~ with a "Ha, ha,
ha ;" and squaring himself before Vaughan, pokes out his two
fingers, and grins, "You understand ?"
"Well, no, not exactly; describe her."
"Describe her! Can you describe light? Can yo~~de-

scribe a moonbeam? Can't describe without a comparison,
and have nothing to compare her to. You understand?
heli! you understand ?"
"I do not understand sufficiently to tell you who she, is;
and unless you can compose yourself, and give plain answers,
I fear you will have to go unsatisfied."
"Well, you know Mrs. St. Ckiud has been away for several
years, and her house, near my old shanty, has been unten..
anted. Lately I have noticed a great clearing up there, and
a rapping of hammers, and an unloading of furniture, and
all that sort of thing, and this morning as I passed I saw
leaning over the balcony-rail an angel in dry-goods. Now,
who is she? I come to you, because I know that no new
calico or cambric can come to town without your knowing it;."
"I presume it is Miss Alice St. Cloud."
"What! Mrs. St. Cloud's daughter ?"
"Yes."
"I used to know her when she was a small girl ,and she
was then a beautiful and innocent child, but I never expected
to see her grow into such a picture as that."
He ha-a-a-awked about the room a time or two, and turn-
ing upon Frank, said:
"Frank, what makes you look so grave, old hoss ?"
"Nothing."
"Nothing don't affect men's livers, man; and yours must
be out of order, or you would not be so close. Come, if
any thing is the matter, out 'with it."
"There is nothing th~ matter. I am perfectly well."
"Then rally, and talk to me about sweet Alice St. Cloud."
"What do you want me to say ?"
"Any thing in your dictionary. Are you in love ~with her
yourself?"
Frank 'started as if something had stung him.
"You need not start so; I won't tell anybody, and will not
6'

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     161

161

160


162      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

try to cut you out. You marry the girl, and I '11 marry the
mother; be your daddy-in-law-ha, ha, ha! Don't be down,
Frank; I give her up at once; I am used to it. I have been
waiting at the pooi for the ~~oubling of the waters, Jo these
forty years, and whenever an angel like Miss Alice comes
down and troubles the water, some fellow like you steps in
bef'orp me. Suppose we call and see her this evening; you
the daughter, and I the mother-you understand? What
say you ?"
"I'll go."
"Good. I '11 call round for you at seven-ha-a-a-awk,"
and left.
Vaughan felt ashamed that lie should thus have committed
himself to see her, and voluntarily place his heart in harm's
way. He had felt some sense of cheapness when returning
froni his evening walks, to reflect that they had always led
by Mrs. St. Cloud's residence, and his truant eyes would
wander about the windows, hoping to encounter a pair of
black ones looking out for him; but here he had consented
to spend the evening in her company The effect of such a
visit he felt would but be a new attack of the heartache, and
a multiplying his unavailing regrets, and hence determined
that he would break his promise to Nickols, and went to
work to fran e some good excuse.
Prompt to the hour, Nickols called, and notwithstanding
Vaughan's resolution to excuse hui~self, Niekols found him
ready and waiting; and he was pleased to find that though
elegantly dressed, it was in perfect taste, and none of tli~ ex-
travagant display of finery with which he had been in the
habit of disfiguring hiinself, giving to him so much the air
of a dandy. lie was rather sedate-almdst grave. Nickols
rallied him about his gravity, feared he was going to turn
parson, etc., but to no purpose. One who had seen him a
few months previous on his way to call upon the junior of

-           ~xii~ U ~Kl~IV1Ii~NT.  163
PLAYt~
the late firm of Vaughan &amp;
him as the same.         (Jo., would not have recognized
They found Mrs. St. Cloud's neatly but plainly furnished
parlors filled with company. Alice did all that childlike
snnphc~ty could do to entertain each of her worshippers, and
each felt that she had done the very thing he wanted done.
As the evening waned, one and another, as by common con-
sent, gave place to Vaughan, who soon monopolized the
attention of the young hostess. Nickols was the last to leave,
and he had long since made his adieus to Mrs. St. Cloud
and gone hawking home, when Frank and Alice were aroused
from a blissful revery by the clock striking one! lie was
astonished! she was astonished! both were astonished! lie
thought there must be some mistake; she thought there
must be some mistake; both thought therQ must be some
mistake. He felt ~?or his watch; but, alas! the counterfeit
Duke had stolen it, and he had not felt able to replace it.
The thought fell upon his hopes and true manly affections...
sunning themselves in the smiles of the most beautiful and
lovely creature he had ever seen-.like the frost upon violets,
wilting their bloom and freshness, lie stammered out an
apology and tore himself away, and with anathemas, deep
but not loud, found his way to his room, and lay down to
dream of an angel with wings half folded and a robe of light
cloud floating about her; and as she approaches him, and he
is about to fold her in his arms, rind become pure and immortal
like to the angel herself; it vanishes, and he is left alone.
From the time of the dissolution of the firm, Vaughan was,
to all inteiits, a changed man; and but few would have re-
coo
gnized, in the solid man of business, the eounselloratlaw
No. Oxford street, the Frank Vaughan, Esq., of Duke
John notoriety, lie had almost lost sight of his former self;
and mos~ heartily wished others had done the same; but this
o easily accomplished, and he found himself com~

4


PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

164         PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

polled to submit to many a hard rub, and severe joke. For a
long time he bore it like a philosopher, or rather like a
martyr; for he had the good sense to understand that the
joke was altogether too goo&amp;-toO pregnant with fun-to
freeze up by a cold, haughty demeanor; and an effort to do
it before it became stale, he saw would not only fail, but in-
crease the sport ~nd compromise the modern Frank Vaughan.
Hence, from month to month he winced under the cognomen
of "Don John," and was compelled to smile at the constant
salutation: "How is the Duke this morning?"
His patience finally gave way at this persistence of his
friends in identifying him with a dead man-a myth; and to
check the injustice, and to remove the delusion with as much
effect and 6clat as possible, he issued cards to those of his
friends who had taken the largest liberty with him to join
him in a wine supper. They were pleased, and hailed it as
a return to himself; for notwithstanding the, name and per-
son seemed to be the same, they saw and felt that he was
not the same pleasure~lOving, dressy, band-box of a man they
had formerlrknown.
The wit and wine flowed freely, and, in the midst of the
hilarity,, one of the guests rapped for silence, and proposed
as ~toast:
"Mine host, the 'Duke,' long life to him; and when it
shall please Hymen that he depart from us and be no more,
may he be received by a Saii&amp;t enveloped in a 6floud; and in
casting his mantle, may it fall upon shoulders more deserving
than a piece of counterfeit."
The toast was receive with vociferous applause, and when
the noise subsided, Vaughan arose to respond. He was grave
almost to sternness, and his voice trembled slightly as he
spoke: "Gentlemen, you are my guests, and I thank you
for becoming so; and what transpires here to-night, under
what is temporarily my roof, I desire to be held by you as

165y

sacred a~ if Occurring around the family-board in the freedom
of home intercourse. You have enjoyed yourselves at my
expense for several moons past; I have borne it without re-
sentuient if not with patience. It was a good joke; II was
the victim of my own vanity and folly, and I felt disposed to
allow my friends the largest liberty, and ~~ou have used it as
I should have done if our positions had been reversed. But
all things must have an end, and why not this? Ii have in-
vited you here to-night that you may enjoy yourselves to the
full. I want no one to feel under restraint. I want you to
run your joke to the uttermost; I shall enjoy it with you.
But mark me: the man who says Duke or IDon John to me
after he passes that door will have to answer to me for the
insult-as such will I consider it. I do not say this as a
threat, or to intimidate; far otherwise. I like you all, and I
hope you like me in return; and 'I beg you will not ti~ke
offence at what I say. It is not so intended. And I hope,
further, that you will riot allow it to check the hilarity of the
evening.
"One other remark: If I have ever been so weak as to
affect coquetry, I hope I am cured of it; and hence, I will
not affect not to understand the allusion in the toast to Miss
St. Cloud. The author of it must allow me to say, with the
utmost kind feeling for him, that such an allusion was in bad
taste. I cOnceive it highly improper that the name of any
young lady should be mentioned upon an occasion like the
present, and more especially the one named."
The silence that succeeded was almost oppressive. It was
broken by the gentleman who first proposed the toast, lie
had the grace and good-humor to rise and say: "Vaughan
is right, boys. We have run him hard enough, and for one,
I am satisfied with n~y share, and will stop. And I beg your
pardon, Vaughan, and that of the young lady upon whose
name I had the extreme had taste to make a very bad pun,

4

r

164


166

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

for having coupled her name and yours in that way. And,
gentlemen, if you will fill again, I will give you the health
of our friend Frank Vaughan, Attorney at Law, up stairs-
'always to be found at his office, except when absent on pro-
fessional ~usiness'-Nay he be as successful in the business
road upon which he has started as his best friends can desire,
and may he not find it a 'hard road to travel."'
This had the effect to restore the joyous feeling, and a
happy evening was writ down in the memorieS of all present.
The next summer Col. CJarkson brought Agnes home to
spend her vacation. She had grown a most beautiful and
attractive girl, ~with the appearance of a woman and niiivet~
of a child. What a well-spring of joy opened to her as she
reached her home once more-the meeting of mother and
father, ~of sisters and brothers, of dear Alice, and all her
friends ~ How the heart gushed over with love V How (lear
each familiar spot, and how thickly the sweet memories come!
She was too young to feel the restraints which society
imposes, and her heart was ready to boi~ind at each generous
impulse.
She had not, disappointed the bright promise of her youth;
and every plan which her fond parents could suggest for the
enjoyment of herself and sweet Alice, as she was called,
was arranged; and time sped by upon his fleetest wink. It
was a beautiful sight to see these lovely girls mounted upon
their handsome ponies-a present from the ever-indulgent
Mr. Clarkson-every evening in the early fall, as the sun was
stooping to the west, galloping in full riding costume over
the hills and across the valleys in the neighborhood of town,
their shadows spanning t~he deep ravines, and bounding along
on the opposite hill-side like rival equestriennes.
The city is built, or rather is being built, for it is far from
being finished, upon a high, precipitous ram~ge of hills, which
take their start some hundred or more miles below and run

K!

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT

16~7

along the edge of the swamp, jutting into the river, as at
Natchez, Rodney, and Vicksburg. Those about l3luff City are
wild and very romantic, rising above the level of the river from
three to five hundred feet. By means of deep grading, and the
filling up of gorges, the city is made not only habitable, but
one of the most beautiful and picturesque upon the river.
From "Crown Point," a high hill about a mile above the
city, is the finest view to be had anywhere on the river south
of the Ohio. Th0 road leading to it was at that time rugged
and ragged, and was one of the favorite rides of the two fair
equestriennes. Almost every deep, shady glen or dell had its
tragic l~istory of the robber, Phelps, the daring bandit of
Mississippi, who was shot by the sheriff, upon the court
green, in an attempt to escape, the day before he was to have
been hung, or as affording a secure retreat for the horde of
desperate gamblers who once infested the city, and whose
daring misdeeds so far outraged a forbearing but incensed
and enraged public as to force them to seize and hang the
ringleaders, and break up their dens about town, and expel
the rest. An old house now stands where the gallows was ~
erected upon which those who were seized w~re hung, near
what is termed the "old graveyard." One accustoi~ed to
see graveyards carefully fenced, and white stones erected, to
tell the passer-by who. rest under them, would not have
recognized it as a place where the dead sleep, but rather
a piece of common pasture. Cattle and live - stock of all
k
inds grazed leisurely over and trod rudely upon the ashes
of the dead. But then it must be considered that this
was" the old graveyard,~' the graves of the early settlers of
Mississippi; that a people who lived in log-cabins that would
hardly protect them from th&amp; winds and the rains of winter.,
and t~he burning suns of summer, could not be expected to
adorn and beautify the house of the dead, who felt not the
wind nor the sunshine, nor heeded the -rattle pf storm. A


163         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
new generation of people, however, had taken the place of
the old pioneers whose bones were thus left without a finger-
board to warn the careless tQ "tread lightly," and a new
state of things inaugurated with regard to the dead-a new
graveyard purchased in a lovely yale north-east of the town,
where after "life's fitful fever" the dead sleep well. It lies
betweeti two long, huge hills; and its whitewashed fence,
thick studding of gray and white marble, and long lines of
bending willows and creeping rose-vines, present a sad but
pleasing effect view ~d from \the top of the hill a mile or more
to the south. I
Over all these tragic and classic grounds these charming,
light-hearted maidens galloped or walked their ponies, as the
mood moved them. Upon ~Jrown Point they would haul up,
after a brisk gallop, and si~ and watch the play of the last
rays of the sun, as they softened the* broad landscaPe that
spread out for miles and miles before them, and listen to the
eternal gurgle of the river as it washed the base of the hill
far below them. The river makes a turn at the point of the
hill, and the two ends run parallel for ten or twelve miles,
giving a view of the river for upwards of twenty, upon ~vhich
the most magnificent steamers were ever moving, lashing to
foam its muddy waters, with the perpetual splash of their
paddJes. A full view was also had of the busy city, sloping
from the highest hill-top to the Aver's edge, with its church
spires piercing the clouds, its long rows of business houses,
fine edifices, with their broad piazzas shaded by the deep rich
green of the China tree, and the old, rusty court-house, where
many of Mississippi'S great men, whose names will brighten
the page of her history, when some son that loves her deeds
shall choose to chronicle them, took their rise. It was a pic-
ture worthy of the best inspiration of the artist-those girls
sitting upon their palfreys, hat in hand, and hair floating in
a mass about their shoulders, that of Alice sweeping down

(I

PLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.             1169
he4 back to the saddle-skirts----.watching the setting sun, and
the~ gathering up the reins and bounding away, the evening
breeze revelling with their long locks.
Upon these occasions they very rarely had any other escort
than Ponto; for the young gentlemen who had sensibility
enough to appreciate it, felt that the presence of a third per-
son would have marred rather than enhanced the pleasure of
t~uchi excursions. Such commonplace subjects as beaux and
balls and parties never entered their heads, much less their
hearts; and lie would have deserved the fate of Prometheus
who would have disturbed their summer elysium by designedly
kindling in their hearts the fire of love. Hence they rode
when and where and as their free fancy pointed. Agnes
never saw company. SJie was too young, and had no desire
for it; and if she had had the desire, Mrs. Clarkson was
much too prudent a mother to have permitted her to gratify
it. Alice, however, was crowded with company each even-
ing, of both sexes; but the adulation paid her did not in any
way deface the beauty of her character or corrupt the simplicity
of her manners. Her watchful mother, however, soon notui~ed
that she was restless and uneasy when Vaughan failed to make
his accustomed visit, and felt anxious about it, but deemed it
prudent to say nothing about it. Agnes had never seen him~
nor heard Alice speak of him or any other gentleman. The
pastimes and compliments of the drawing-room never formed
the subject of discourse between the young ladies; and
Agnes was of course ignorant that the empire of her dear
friend's heart was threatened to be disputed by a very
formidable rival; nor was Alice herself aware of it. A very
trifling incident revealed it to Agnes. One afternoon, late,
as they were standing upon the upper balcony, Vaughan
passed, and politely lifted his hat. The salutation ~brought
the color to Alice's face, and she looked after him abstract-


170         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
edly, until he turned the corner. Agnes put her hand
around her, and said, in a half-whisper:
"Who was that mild, handsome gentleman ?"
Alice put her head on Agnes's shoulder, looked up into
her face with the sweetest and most innocent look in the
world, and in the same tone answered:
"Mr. Vaughan."
"I have read something of love in books, dear Alice, and
II have at times thought you were too pure to love any thing
but God, your devoted mother, the bright sky, and sweet
flowers; but you let those large eyes of yours fall so softly
upon Mr~ Vaughan, and you looked so anxiously after him as
he turned the corrierZ~~~~"
"Hush! hush! my darling Agnes, do not finish what Ii see
is on your lips. I cannot hear it. Mr. Vaughan is betrothed
already. Earthly love, my sweet friend, is not for me; IF feel
theree" laying her hand upon her heart.
"0! you will marry some time," said Agnes, trying to be
cheerful; "almost every one does, you know.
"No! I shall never marry; Ii have never thought of it.
Were Mr. Vaughan free to offer mO his hand, I would not
wish it. I would not have him ask me, for I feel certain that
earth has no home for me other than the sweet one of my
idolized mother. Look yonder, dear Agnes, do you see that
beautiful cluster of stars? how soft and pure their light!
It is the light of heaven, and my home, sweet one, will be
there.~~
Agnes could ~ot speak, but she drew her arm more tightly
around her friend, kissed away the tear which lay upon her
cheek, and walked with her silently up and down the gallery.
Not long after Agnes returned to school, Alice ceased her
rides, and resisted all the entreaties of Vaughan and others
to join them in their gallops over the hills. Her rides were
sacred to the memory of her absent friend.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     171

CHAPTER XIx.
We may smile, or coldly sneer,
The while such ghostly tales we hear,
And wonder why they were believed,
And how wise men could be deceived:
Bathing our renovated sight
In the free gospel's glorious light,
We marvel it was ever night.
MRS. HALE.
TilE ensuing summer, Agnes completed her education, and
Col. Clarkson and his family spent the season, in company
with Mrs. St. Cloud and Mice, and a number of other Bluff
City notables, at "Cooper's Well," a new watering~place, just
then becbmning famous. It was situated in hinds county, in
a poor, sandy, pine-woods country. The causes which led to
the digging of the well, and its great popularity as a healer of
the people, and a place of fashionable resort for pleasure-
seekers, were supernatural a~md singular enough. It took its
name from the original proprietor, Rev. Mr. Cooper, or
"Brother Cooper," as he was universally called. He was a
distinguished and popular and talented divine of the Methodist
Church, a denomination numbering a vast, multitude of wor-
shippers throughout lVllssissippi and the adjoining States.*
~ The Rev. Mr. Cooper here spoken of now sleeps with his fathers,
and that voice whose deep tones have echoed and reechoed so often
in the wilds of Mississippi, calling the ungodly to repentance, is now
tuned in harmony with that of angels on high, sounding the eternal
praise of Almighty God.


172

PLAYING FOR AMUSE1~IENT.

The reverend gentleman must not take offence at the truthful
history here given, for the writer esteems him highly, and
would, under no circumstances, give him pain.
"Brother Cooper" was a tall, raw-boned, cadaverous-look-
ing man, his skin as dark as a Spaniard's; dark, deep-set
eyes, black wire-looking hair, heavy eyebrows, prominent
cheek-hones, sunken cheeks, and a sepulchral voice, which
was sufficiently powerful when at its full compass to he heard
over five acres of camp-ground, without breaking, and appa-
rently without effort. He was devotedly attached to his re-
ligion, an enthusiast, and many regarded him as somewhat
cracked-a monomaniac upon such subjects as took strong
hold of his powerful imagination. His great reputation as a
pulpit orator, and his powers of description, especially his
descriptions of the fate of tho damned, "the lake of fire where
the smoke of their torment ascended up for ever and ever,"
were so awfully graphic and grand, that crowds, everywhere,
of all classes, would gather to hear him. And his piety and
sincerity gave weight to all he said. He dug his well in obe-
dience to a strange dream that made a deep impression upon
him. He had told it to his frienfls, and the fame of it pre~
ceded him to his appointment; and such was the morbid
appetite of the public for the marvellous and supernatural,
that crowds would press around him and urge the recital of
his dream; and in this way he acquired the habit of relating
it in his sermons, with many other wild and thrilling im-
aginings, and visions from the spirit-land. "In my dream,"
he would say, in that deep, solemn voice, "when deep sleep
had fallen upon me, a voice appeared find said to me:
'Brother Cooper, dig a well!' I woke, and thought Po
more of it. The second night, at the self-same hour, it said:
'Brother Coop~~r, dig a well!' I treated it as a sleeping
fancy, hut it took strong hold of my mind, and I found it
difficult to shake myself loose from its hold upon my mind.

4

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

173

The next night at the same hour it said: 'Brother Cooper,
dig a well !' I asked: 'Where shall I dio~?' It said, 'Fo~-
low, and Twill show you where you shall dig!' I followed,
and was led to a retired spot in a deep vale, where I should
not have thought of planting my spade for water. The next
morning I awoke, and so vivid was my dream that I arose
and without difficulty found the spot. I took my wife and
showed her the spot, and related my dream.~ She said, 'It is
from God!' I said, 'Then I will dig.' I hired a man, and
began to dig. He labored to dissuade me, but I said, 'Dio~ ~
After digging a number of days and no sign of water, he
laughed at what he called my superstition, and quit, and I
abandoned the work. i~ut again in my dream the voice said:
'Brother Cooper, finish the well!' I hired another worker~,
and he likewise grew disheartened and ceased to work, and
again I resolved to abandon the digging; but again the voice
said: 'Brother Cooper, finish the well!' I hired another
digger, and the profane man said he would dig until he found
water or the brimstone that fed the lake of everlasting flame.
He found water, but the smell and taste were so offensive,
that no domestic use could be made of it. I knew not of its
medicinal qualities; my skill in the healing art extended only
to the sin-sick soul, and not to the perishing frame. Poor,
weak mortal that [ was, and hard of belief:, I thought my
imagination had trifled with my judgment, or that some foul
fiend had tempted me to sin, and the windlass and crank were
left to rot. But God would not suffer what he had provided
for the healing of the nation to be lost through the ignorance
and weakness of his sei~vant, who knew not what use to make
of his gifts. Dr. , a man eminent in his profession, and
a learned chemist, was perishing away ~with dyspepsia. His
disease had baffled his own great skill, and that of the other
physicians of the State, and, despairing of earthly help, he
sought the balm of 'Gilead and the Physician there.' One


17~         PLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.
ni~ht, after his weeping family had prayed around his bedside,
an his devoted and pious wife, worn out with watching, had
f9len to Aeep by his side, a voice in his sleep said: 'Drink
of the water of the w~ll I will show you, and you shall be
healed!' Thrice it thus spoke. The ne~t night it spoke
thrice the same words in the same voice, and the next night
thrice. Th~ third night, when it had spoken thrice, he said:
'Show me the well!' He was shown the well, and a few
days thereafter Ii was surprised to see him being borne upon
a litter, prostrate and emaciated, into my house. He said he
had come to drink of the water of my well, and told me his
vision. I fell down upon my knees, and smote upon my
breast, and said: 'Blessed be the Lord! He is wiser than
L'e Some people say, 'Brother Cooper is crazy.' I love to
be crazy like Brother Cooper. If living, and serving, and
glorifying God is being crazy, I wish you were all crazy, just
like Brother Cooper."
This tiling~ told at every camp-meeting, c1uarterly-mceting,
and Conference in Mississippi, Louisiana, Arkansas, and Tex-
as, by a man noted for his zeal and go~d works, with the real
merits of the mineral water, gave to t~e well wide-spread re-
putation, and the diseased flocked theiK as did those "sick of
the palsy" to the "Pool of Bethesda.P And there Colonel
Clarkson and his family went.
This was Agnes's first season in society-the first season she
was seen by or was permitted to see company. She and
Alice were like, twin flowers, shedding odor and fre~liness
around. Agnes was the taller of the two, and possessed more
character, but, withal, gentle and easy in her manners. One
was all love, the other admired as well as loved. In decision
and point of character Agnes resembled her mother, but was
more impressible. She had the same Grecian outline of face,
the same clear, white skin 'when in repose as when first seen
at the Hermit Bend, but when animated, her face was suf-

I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

175

fused with couleur de rose, and her lustrous eyes shone like
stars. Her step was elastic and queen-like, and her voice
soft and musical as Orpheus' lute, "strung with poets' sinews,"
"Whose golden touch could soften steel and stones,
Make tigers tame, and huge leviathans
Forsake unsounded deeps to dance on sands."
And its effect was almost as great. For a number of even~
ings in succession, the music of her voice, and the charm of
her conversation, together with the beauty of her person,
drew even the lovers of cards and brandy from their long
sittings. Agnes was a natural musician, performing the com-
positions of the best masters with an ease and grace rarely
seen in private life. She loved to follow Mozart and l3ee-
thoven through their graceful passages, and often became so
engrossed with their music that she would seem almost in-
spired with the genius of these great masters, and, forgetting
all else, her whole soul would pour itself out in harmony so
sweet, and sounds so touching, that few could listen unmoved.
Even Colonel Isaacs, for whom ladies had but few attractions,
left his cards and brandy to listen to her voice, and look Upon
her surpassingly beautiful face and figure. To Alice, the sen-
sation her friend creatQd was a source of great delight; but
Agnes was unaccustomed to the adulation and compliments
of the gay fashionable world, and it all pressed heavily upon
her young heart, and she loved the quiet of her room, with
Alice by her side, far more than the gay festivities of the
saloons, with all their fascinations. Her mind was pure-the
world had not yet touched her~ with its withering breath, and
she could not understand or appreciate its hollow pleasures
or unmeaning gallantries. There were at the Well an un-
usually large number of visitors, ~ind Alice and Agnes soon
collected about them a circle of elegant and accomplished
young ladies and gentlemen, who, like themselves, preferred


176       PLAYING FOR AMIJSEMENT.

something more rational than the adulation and compliments
a heartless, pleasur&amp;-seeking crowd. Frank Vaughan was
one of their circle, and no one added more to their happiness
or amusement; he was quiet, but never obtrusive, and when
the young ladies were compelled to have a gallant, he was
always welcome.
Nrs. Co~bin and her daughter were at the Well, and the
attention p ~iid by Vaughan to Miss Alice gave her great un-
easiness. Clara did not seem to notice it in the least, but
flirted away with every new beau who offered his coat-sleeve,
and the newer he was the better. It was her boast that she
caught all the new beaux; but, to an attentive observer, it
was very plain that her favors were more especially given to
the young ~Louisiana attorney.
This kind of life was so new to* Agnes, that after the no-
velty had worn off a little, she and Alice longed for the quiet
of their homes, the hills, their ponies, and old rides. Mrs.
St. Cloud readily consented to take them back with her, and
Mrs. Clarkson was not sorry when Agnes complained of the
distaste which she had for the idle flatteries with which her
ears were nightly filled, and gladly assented to the arrange-
ment.
The lovers of conquest could not understand how two reign-
ing belles could, in the full tide of a successful season, leave
the scene of their triumphs, and score of worshipers, for the
seclusion of home, and the society of each other. Could
these votaries of fashion have seen the smile of pleasure, the
look of love and happiness with which these young girls re-
sumed their old but rational pursuits, and could they have
entered into their occupation as Alice and Agnes did-~---the
reading of standard works, the music, their sweet voices
mingling in harmony, the kind word to the afflicted, and the
charity to the needy-could they have seen all this, and then
have witnessed the content and satisfaction with which they

176

over the hills on their fleet ponies, they might have
felt that woman's destiny is not confined to the artificial and
transient pleasures of the gay world, and that reason holds
her empire far above emptiness and folly.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT

177


178         3?LAYTNG FOR AMUSEMENT.
CHAPTEfi XX.
"Fly drunkenness! whose vile incontinence
Takes both away the reason and the sense,
Till, with Circean cups thy mind possessed,
Leaves to be man, and wholly turns to beast."
TilE evening after Alice and Agnes left the Well, Vaughan
was gloomy and taciturn, and to relieve his ennui detcrniined
tojoin Colonel Isaacs and some others in a game of cards.
When he proposed to do so, Colonel Isaacs asked him to one
side, and said:
"Frank,~ my friend, I would advise you not to play."
"Why? There is no harm in it."
"Yes, there is harm in it, particularly in your state of
mind."
"flow do you know what state of mind I am in ?"
"Pshaw! you can't deceive anybQdy; your face ~s a table
whereon your thoughts 'are visibly charactered and engraved.'
You love Alice St. Cloud; and you are right, my boy. Marry
her, Frank, if she will have you, ai~d there is no reason why
she should not. You have talent, and no bad habits, and
your prospects for business are good, and daily improving,
and your person comely enough to please any woman. Some
time since I would not have said this much to you; it would
have spoiled you then, but you have improved since."
"I thank you for your good opinion; but I never expect
the good fortune to marryAlice St. Cloud."
"Why not?"

1 IAAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.              179
"II might give a dozen reasons, but one is sufficient: -she
vould not have me."
"How do you. know? Have you ever asked her ?"
"I have not, and would not for my right arm."
"Nonsense, Frank. I thought you were done with ro-
1 nec. Away with su~h love heroics, and take my advice
marry Miss Alice St. Cloud. All stuff about woman's
not wantingg to marry. All that is needed is a good chance,
d you now as a very fair match for any young
acquaintance, but more especially for Miss St.
you love her, and I think she likes you, and if she
she very soon will. If your reported engagement
w~ith Miss Clara Corbin, which tile mother is so industriously
be the cause of restraining you from obeying the
impulse of your heart to offer your hand to sweet little Alice,
you be honest with Miss Clara and yourself and disclose
to her the truth, and break with her at once. The mother
may storm, and say a few scandalous things~ but, my word for
it, the daughter will not care a sou. She likes thap poet-
quoting Louisiana attorney better to-day than she does ybu, and
he will very easily console her for the loss of a lover that
cares nothing for her, and for whom she cares but little."
"My relations with Miss Corbin are partly the cause, and
a sufficient one, why I should not address Miss Alice St.
Cloud, but not the only nor the most material one. It
is no vanity in m~ to say that I[ believe I am not an object
of aversion to Mi~s Alice; indeed, I think she likes nie as
well as a pure, single-minded creature such as she can like
any gentleman. But I cannot be mistaken in believing that
she has never thought of marrying any one;. and my own
appreciation of her tells me that it would distress her no
little to be compelled to think of it; and I would, like the
brave 'Mutius~' put my. hand in the fire, and let it burn to
the. wrist, before I would give her that much pain."


180        rLAYJNG FOR AMUSEMENT.
"Too romantic, Frank; too romantic, my dear sir. Beau-
tiful as she is, she is not an angel, and iflust think and act
like other folks; and Ii never knew a young lady that was
not peering eagerly about her for a husband, and who felt
disappointed if she had not at least half a dozen offers, at
her age. So d~ you take my advice, and marry sweet Alice
St. Cloud."
"I cannot ask Miss Alice St. Cloud to be my wife; though
I would not only brave Mrs. Corbin's displeasure, but a whole
regiment, to call her mine. But when I look into her sweet
face, and meet the light of her gentle eyes, and, above all,
when I feel the influence of her pure nature upon me, my
wish to marry her is rebuked, and I feel, that I stand before
one too good, too spiritual, and possessing too much of
heaven's loveliness for erring man like me."
"III am sorry, when your heart is so full of love, that your
head should be so full of such high-flung, romantic notions.
I am sincere in what I have said; and as I would be sorry,
with my experience, to see you, in your present mood, sit
down at cards, with your leave I will try to explain why I
give you this advice. I shall speak of myself~."
"I ~hall certainly feel flattered by your confidence, as I am
deeply~ grateful for your kind advice and affectionate regard."
"You, Frank," and his eye kindled, "have stood and felt
the ground shake under you, as the brazen cannon roared
its welcome tQ 'Mississippi's favorite son,' as he was borne
home bleeding fromo the ensanguined field, with blushing
honors thick upon him. You have thrown up your hat, and
shouted, 'Huzza I' as he rode past, with banners, drum, and
fife, ai'~d~an admiring multitude applauding. You have seen
newspapers invent new names by which to distinguish him
from other men; and you have seen the State heaping its
highest honors ~ipon him, and tl~e common voice of the
Southern public ~calling him to 'still higher posts; and he

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                181
deserves it all, every inch. But, sir, let mc tell you, I am
to-day a greater man than he! I have a stouter arm, a
braver heart, and a clearer head !" His eyes fairly blazed
as he said it.
"His equal, at least," Vaughan modestly said.
"Ay, 'his equal, at least!' Then why not his equal in
fame? Why are not my name and deeds, like his, trum-
peted round the world? Why am I 'shrunk to this little
measure?' I'll tell you why; Cards and 'brandy! Drink-
ing for good cheer, and playing for amusement, and betting
to count the game! If I had never seen a card nor a brandy~
bottle, I might have been high in command in the army, or a
Congressman, Senator, or what I listed! Beware of them,
sir: they are more fatal to ambition than the blades of
Brutus and the 'envious Casca.' The great' body' of the
people are virtuous; and no mere slave to vice can be their
servant long, if they know of his bondage. A judicious
niarriage might, nay, it would have saved me, and, instead
of b9ing as now, a Satyr to that Hyperion, I would have
been his compeer. Hear the warning of a man who has
drunk deep at every fountain of excess: Beware of cards
and dice, wine and bad women. The breath of the Upas
tree is not more fatal to life than they to innocence and
virtue. Beware of them! Like the faithful Kent, 'I have
years on my back forty-eight,' and am 'too old t~ learn,'~ but'
at a good age to advise. So you will do well to heed me, my
boy. I never preached morality befoi~e: it is my first' sermon;
it is also my last. At your age, life was a blissful timing
to me. I was full of hope and energy, and the' mere sense
of being was in itself a full equivalent for what of mischance
befell me; but i~iow I am without hope, without a future, and
a past that I deplore, and life is a burden that I would shuf-
fle off as cheerfully as I would wipe out twenty years of vice;
and I would do it, but for the triumph it would afford my


182         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
enemies. They shall not use my name 'to point a moral or
adorn a tale.' To avoid that alone will 'li grunt and sweat
under' a lifo my excesses have made 'weary.' Feel of that
hand. lit was once as soft and smooth as yours; it is now
hard and wrinkled. Look at it. Do you see nothing there ?"
"INothing."
"Look again ~ Do you see nothing ?"
"Nothing."
"Sir, there is blood on it! the blood of a good man; and
'the wide sea hath drops too few .to wash it clean again.
But for cards, sir, it would not have been there. Do you
wonder now that I warn you thus earnestly? You nay
wonder that I warn you at all. I wonder at it my elf.
There are few men I choose to warn, and still fewer occas ons
when I feel in the humor to warn anybody. Go to the
gaming-table and the intoxicating bowl when you please. I
have said my say, and if it were to say over again, I w uld
not say it. When you fall, and become all over stained with
guilt and sin, say, 'Col. ]lsaacs warned me of this.'"
As Vaughan was exprc~sing his thanks for the interest
manifested in staying his first step to ruin, the door opened,
and Capt. Orr came in.
"Captain," said the Colonel, "I have just been warning
Frank to 'beware of cards and dice, wine and bad women.'
Your experience is worth something. Am I correct ?"
"You are, and more. You arc young, Frank, and as yet
the 'trail of the serpent,' as the pious would say, has left no
mark on you; and if you would not have it leave one that
will act as a mildew upon every hope and aspiration of your
life, take Col. Isaacs7 advice. And let mc emphasize the last
clause: 'For the lips of a strange [bad] woman drop as an
honeycomb, and her mouth is smoothes than oil; but her end
is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword. 1-Jer
feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.' You see

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT'.               183
I can quote Scripture; so can the devil. See that you prac-
tice it. Excuse what I have said, and, if you will allow me,
I will deprive you of Col. Isaacs' company." Saying which,
the two left the room for the card-table.
lit was not likely that, against the warning of two uch
men as Isaacs and Orr, Vaughan should go to the ~ard-t le.
lie was satisfied that they had gone there, and for som time
after the door closed h~ stood without moving even his eyes,
and then said: "Go; but as for me, see you, ' li'll go pray.~
And for the first time since lie lisped his child's prayer by his
mother's knee, he bent before the great God, saying: "Lead
me not into temptation, buf deliver me from evil."
The next day lie left the Well and returned home, and
employed his first leisure hour in calling upon Alice and
Agnes. The pleasure the young ladies expressed at seeing
hini assured him of his welcome.
"You came home earlier than you expected ?" asked Miss
Agnes.
"Yes, soniewhat. The whirl of every thing there rather
dizzied than entertained; and after you two had left, nothing
remained to compensate me for the wearisomeness which
succeeds the intoxication. II shall be lonesome at homey, as
there is but little business doing during the sunnier, and most -
of the~ families of the town arc off spending the dull summer
months at some watering-place; ~t is possible I may afflict
you with            1        may
nore than         ~         If such
should be the case, I hope you will pardon me, and dismiss
inc when you may like."
"Why should you suppose that we may regard your com-
pany as an affliction ?"
"You are so happy together, and so well satisfied with the
society of each other, that I cannot but fear that a third per-
son may be regarded as an intruder."
"I am sure we never thought of you thus."


184

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

"I am glad to hear you say so. And as you are likely to
see a good deal of me this summer, unless you fobdi, le
us agree upon terms.
"Very well; you propose them.''hW"1.
"Your having left such a troop of beaux at the Well, in
search of quiet here, is sufficient assurnethat youeil enot
receive me as a beau; and as it ievdnthtetero
you are in the market, I dare not come as a suitor. You
need no~t fear, Miss Alice, as your slight start at the word
suitor would seem to express. Be assured I will never hazard
the good opinion you have been kind enough to form, of me,
by coming to you as a suitor, until I at least have some as-
surance of a possible welcome as such. Neither of you have
a brother at home; suppose I fill the place of one, as near as
a stranger may?"
"Agreed. That will do," replied both the yung ladie
"Mind, now, I take a brother's place.  Wiha brte
there is no constraint; he is never in the way; serve  we
he can be useful, and takes for pay sisterly regard. I askano
more; andif at any time you have cause to aipprehend taI
may demand more, you have only to abandon our contract,
and no questions asked."
"Very well; it is a bargain. 'And to begin making your-
self useful, we have no chess-men, and it is too dusty for us
to go down town, and the servant has not taste enough to
select a set; so we commission you to get us one."
"With pleasure; and I will beat you with them when they
are purchased."
"You will find your boast more difficult to make good than
you are aware of," said Alice.
"Why so?"
"'Because Agnes plays a very fine game."
" You think sQ, dear Alice, because I beat you sometimes'.
Mr. Frank may be a more formidable opponent."

0

I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

185

" Well, we shall see ;" and off he started to fulfil his com--
mission with an amount of pleasure he, was scarcely able to
estimate.
.When the young ladies ,advised Mrs. St. Cloud of what
they had done, she looked a little grave, and Alice said:-
"Dear mother, I hope we have done nothing wrong ?"
" Not exactly wrong, my daughter, but a little imprudent.
Familiarity with young men is never advisable. ' Have
charity for all; but familiarity is not expedient .'
" I am so sorry we have displeased you," said Agnes. "I
never thought of the impropriety, and do not see it now ex-
actly; but I know you would not condemn what we have
done if it were not wrong. Mr. Frank seemed so lonsm
that I .could not say no to his proposition. As I made the
bargain, I will break it when he comes."
"No, do not do that. Let it stand as it is. He might
not understand it rightly, and you could not, by any possible
explanation, place matters upon the indifferent basis they
were on before. He is an honorable young man, and I believe
you may trust him to the full extent of his engagement; and
I would not have you uselessly wound him. All I ask is that
you be prudent and avoid all familiarity. Do you always  e
gard him, and let him always regard himself; as a visitor
Let him come when it suits him, and go when it suits him;
but do you receive and dismiss him as any other gentleman.
Fail in no respect to him less than to a stranger, and exact
the same from him that you would from a stranger. In other
respects fulfil your bargain."
" I understand you, I think," said Agnes, "and will not
fail to profit by what you have said." Both of them put
their arms around the true, good mother and friend and
kissed her.
The evening was a very pleasant one to all. Vaughan
found his boast premature. Out of three games, Agnes beat


186     PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     18T

him two, and tl~e third was a stale-mate. Music and con-
versation succeeded chess, and all were mutually pleased and
happy. Mrs~ St. Cloud was noticed, at a seasonable hour, to
leave the room, and soon after a little bell rang and the
servants went quietly in, when her voice was heard reading
the evening prayers, the servants responding. Conversation
ceased in the parlor, and Frank indicated his willingness to
join them in the evening devotions, and Alice was in the act
of leading the way into the oratory, when checked by a look
from Agnes, who remembered Mrs. St. Cloud's advice, and
thought such an act more familiar than her kind hostess and
temporary guardian would approve. Vaughan understood
and appreciated it. Trifling as the incident was, it had the
effect of establishing the line of respectful deference, beyond
which Vaughan's good sense told him he should not desire to
go. It served to restrain him ever after when tempted to
observe a familiarity and at-homeativeness which his contract
might by some be thought to include.
With this good understanding the time passed swiftly and
happily and profitably. The young ladies recommended their
rides-Vaughan joining them only when they intended ex-
tending them farther than it was thought prudent to go
without an escort.

CHAPTER XXI.
WHEN the families about town were breaking up and
leaving for the summer season, and trades were becoming
scarce, friend Piper's nostrils were spread and nose flatted,
and Gilpin's tail drooped all the time. The failure of "the
girls" to secure husbands, and the possibility of their becom-
ing old maids, tormented him beyond measure. When trades
were plenty, in the flush of successful speculation he would
forget "the girls," and the failure of his matrimonial specula-
tions on their account; but when trades became dull, the
vision of four old spinsters haunted him when awake, and
was a nightmare in his sleep, and h~ would form every im-
aginable and childish plan for marrying them off, and talk and
fret about it until home would cease to be home for any one
about the house. Upon such occasions even "old Tom," a
large gray cat, would leave his quiet place on the hearth-rug,
and rich harvest of crumbs, chicken-bones, and mice, and
take to the brier-patches and sage fields to feed upon spar-
rows; Betsy would grow snappish, and let~ her tongue off at
everybody and every thing; and "the girls" felt themselves to
be unwelcome guests in their father's house. They were
worked up to the belief that the failure to get husbands,
whether men wante~l them for wives or not, was a crime, but
one they were puzzled to atone for; for they naturally enough
asked themselves, If men would not court them, how were
they to compel them? They knew that Piper had done his
part, and that Betsy had done her part; and that their part,


188         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
which was to say "yes," when asked, alone remained to be
done; but how could they say "yes" if they were not asked?
If let alone, they would have thought but little about beaux
or husbands, and cared less; but as it was, they had heard
"Pa"* say so much about "old maids," that they had come to
consider them as a most repulsive species of animated nature,
and to be avoided at all hazards. Thus the years that might
have been spent in the sweet enjoyment of home pleasures,
and each other's society, secure from the blight of the worldly-
minded, were poisoned, and were wasted in unavailing regrets
and the most painful and choking of all the sensations that
can distress the young and ardent-the consciousness of neg-
lect, a feeling that they were not regarded as worthy as
others.
One Saturday evening, after a week of failure-not a trade
had been made-Gilpin came home with his tail drooping,
and Piper's nostrils spread wider, and his nose flatter
than common, and the old song of "the girls" becoming old
maids was begun. Things had not gone well with Betsy that
day: the old Shanghai hen had refused to set, and had de-
stroyed a whole setting of eggs, and the old sow had caught
the turkey.hen sitting by the garden fence upon nineteen
embryo turkeys, and eaten her up; and the calf had got to
old "Pide" and sucked all the milk; so altogether she was
in no humor to sympathize with old spinsters nor their
anxious parents. Hence she cut the tune short by saying:
"I don't want you to talk to me any more about the girls
getting married. If you want to get rid of the girls-and
gracious knows the sooner the better-""do with them like
other folks do with their girls."
"And how is that ?"
"Fix them up and send them to the Well."
"And spend ten dollars a week? You 'ye lost your senses
if you think I 'in as big a fool as that."

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                189
"if you are too stingy to pay the expense necessary to
marry them ofl, what do you keep 4 such a fuss about their
marrying for? All the girls can't get husbands, so hu~lv
your fuss about it.','
"Betsydon't talk to me that way !"
"How do you want me to talk ?"
"You shan't talk to me that way !"
"I'd like to know what'll prevent me? I'd like to know
when yoi became too good for me to talk to? Things have
come to a high pass when I must ask you what I shall say!
Fine times it would be, for me to come whining about, 'Mr.
Piper, may I say this?' before I am allowed to use my
tongue! When it comes to this, sir, I'll bite my tongue off
and let you put it in your pocket, along with the ends of
your trades.''.
Piper saw that he ~had better compromise; for though he
could beat Betsy at ~ horse trade, she could beat him in the
glish," and he had been too often foiled in a tilt
of the kind with her, to desire a passage-at-arms with her;
besides, in his struggles with the phantom of four old maids,
he wanted her aid and sympathy. He therefore said in a
much milder tone:
am not going to take them to the Well, to spend all I've
flirting about there, but I am willing they should go to
some less expensive place."
"Then take them to the country~-.-anywhere, so that I may
~ rid of this everlasting ding-dong. Mr. Flinn asked me a
short time ago to let them come and stay with his wife while
he went to Texas to look at some lands. I reckon there's
some men there, as well as at other places, so you can take
them there."
"Has he got room for them all ?" said Piper, n~uch in-
terested.
How do I know? If he has n't, what did he ask me to


'190         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
~cnd them for? I reckon he knows how many his house will
hold, and he is not fool enough to run it over."
"As he asked you, suppose you and the girls' Uncle Dick
take them over. -
"Well, I'll do any thing to get some peace from this old-
maid song. I am tired of it, but I am not yet tired of my
girls."
Mr. Flinn lived upon one of the Bayous in the swamp, on
the Louisiana side of the river, not quite two days' ride from
Bluff City, and it was arranged that Betsy was to take one of
"the girls" in the buggy, and that Piper was to practice upon
uncle and swap him into procuring a conveyance to take the
the other three. He could not think of hiring a hack for
the purpose, for it would take the fat end off from a lean trade
to pay for it, and, unwilling to undergo the expense of any
other conveyance, he had recourse to good-natured Uncle
Dick. He therefore starts off, and Gilpin once more hoists
his tail, and gallops Piper down town.
"0 Richard, let me see you a minute," and walks with
him' to one side. "I have some very' important business on
hand, and cannot possibly leave home just now, and Betsy
has promised to take the girls over to Mr. Flinn's to spend a
part of the summer. Mrs. Flinn is a particular friend of
Betsy's, and Betsy hates to disappoint her, and I[ hate to
disappoint the girls, but I cannot leave home, and I thought
you might be able to go with them."
"It is rather an inconvenielit itime for me to leave, though
I suppose I can obtain leave of absence long enough for
that; and rather than the girls shall be disappointed, IF will
accompany theni."
"It would be a pity to disappoint them, they have set
their hearts on it so; and they have set their hearts on
having you go along with them. I never saw girls so
attached to anybody as they are to yQu. They make them..

PLAYING FOR A1VtUSEMENT.             191
selves fools about you, and think you know every thing, and
that I don't know any thing; and they are hardly
turn around without you are with them."    willing to
"I am glad they think thus well of ~e, and I desire to
continue to merit their good opinion, though I can't hope
much success."
"You will meet with it by accompanying them to Mr.
Flinn's. Betsy will take the buggy and Crooked-ears and
one of the girls, and you can take the other three in with
you.~~
Uncle iDick flinched as if Piper had stuck something in
him, but did not have the courage to say no. He knew the
young ladies would feel the disappointment greatly, and he
felt that the money spent in obliging them in a pastime of
the sort was "kread cast upon the waters ;" and, as he had
no one else to care for he had as well use his little means in
purchasing them a summer respite, and let Piper save the
odds and ends of his trades for the future.
Pet ~yas extremely anxious to take ,a seat in the handsome
conveyance hired by "Uncle Dick," drawn by a pair~ of
blooded bays; but as Betsy had all the trouble of the thing,
and had not regained her good-humor, she made Pet take a
seat with her behind the mustang. The bays were fresh
and spirited, and Uncle Dick loved a stiff rein, and he allowed
them to dash off in a brisk trot. For the first dozen miles
or so, while, the mustang was good-natured, Betsy managed,
by dint of jerking and whipping, to keep along pretty well;
but when the day grew warm, and the mustang became a
little leg-weary, the whipping and jerking were to no purpose,
and Crooked-ears took his own time. This worried Uncle
Dick not a little, for lie saw that, owing to the obstinacy of
the mustang, it would take at least -three days to make the
trip-time which he could illy spare. The bays, eager to go
on, had to be held in, and time hung heavily on them all,~
K


192

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT-.

and glad enough they were on the evening of the third day
t reach the end of their journey.
They were received with great kindness by Mr. Flinn,
who had not only plenty of room, but a heart as big as his
house, and Betsy and "the girls" soon felt that ease and sat-
isfaction which always follows true hospitality. Uncle Dick
forgot " Crooked-ears," and all sat -down to the bountiful
supper, prepared by their kind hostess, with merry faces and
light hearts. The girls felt free -the incubus of "not
marrying," so often and uselessly obtruded upon them, had
vanished; they saw that they were understood and appre-
ciated, and every thing promised a happy and delightful
summer.

*
I

V

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

193

CH A PT ER X XII.
" Death lies on her like an untimely frost
Upon the sweetest flower of all the field.".
sH'AKSPEARE.
DUIGthe summer the yellow fever prevailed to an
alarming extent intecity of New Orleans, and, asBlf
Cit wa indaily communication with it by means of steam-.
botnavigation, serious fears were entertained that the fever
woul bebroght o BuffCity, and the anxious citizens pre-
vailed on the City Council to purcliase a quarantine-ground a
mile or two below the city, and establish quarantine. As the
fover increased in New Orleans, the fears of -the people of
Bluff City increased in proportion. Daily some family or
families might have been seen moving toward the railroad
d~p6t with travelling equipage. Steamboat- travelling was
entirely abandoned, as most of the boats bound upward had
eases of fever on board. ,The inquiry of each citizen, as he
met his neighbor in the morning, was, "Whatinews of the
fever ?" The inquiry of their families, when they returned at
night, was, " What news of the fever ?" and'the answer of each
was, " Still on the increase." The daily reports of mortality
from the Crescent City were heart-sickening to read. Rumors
at last began to spread that eases had occurred in Bluff City,
but they were in whispers. Every one feared, every one
believed it to be in town, but no'one dared say so. The
newspapers, the sentinels on watch, proclaimed, iin a grave-
yard voice, "All's well." All knew and felt that the appear-

I


194

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

ance of the fever in the town would ruin trade, and prostrate
the energies of the city, just recovering from the effects of
the over-speculationi and ruin which levelled all the industrial
and commercial interests of the country some few years* pre-
vious; and as a large proportion of the private families and
citizens of leisure were out of town, the commercial interest,
the buying and selling, made public opinion, and public
opinion, like all other despots, was then, as now, tyrannical,
muzzled the press, and si 10thered the cry of the suffering.
In obedience to the desp ot, the Esculapiuses of town were
compelled to invent all sdrts of names for the "Wandering
Jew" that daily and nigh ly crept about the frightened town
and stopped the breath of its good citizens. So long as the
despot had one physician ho could say that he had not seen
a case, it held all the oth rs tongue-tied. In silence the dis-
ease worked, in silence science grappled with it; but disease
was the stronger force. It was on Sunday morning when
there was not left a physician who could say that he had not
seen a case: each had a case, and some had scores, and all
proclaimed that the fever was not only in the town, but was
of the most "malignant type." The tap of the fire-bell at
sea would not have alarmed the doomed crew more than did
this announcement the people of Bluff City. Though all
had felt its presence, this authoritative declaration was like
the whispered statement, "lie is dead," to one who has
watched long at the bedside ,of a dear friend, fearing, yet
hoping. The excitement, and running to and fro, and mount-
ing in hot haste, in "$Belgium's capital" at the approach of
the foe,' was not greater than that occasioned by this an-
nouncement. -Men and women ran frantically about, and,
with white lipsycried, " The fever ! the fever !" The stream
*of inhabitants fleeing from the disease stretched across the
town, and .kept up a- heavy tramp and rumble all day on
Sunday, and most of the day on Monday. Numbers, how-

I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENTP.                 .195
ever, could not leave, some on account of business, and others
because members of their family had already been attacked,
and could not be removed.
The epidemic spread fearfully, and the mortality was fright-
ful. All the remedies that had been successful in former
years and in other places, seemed no moire than so much
poison. At first the dead were carried to the graveyard in
hearses with long black plumes, followed by large proces-
sions of friends, moving slowly and solemnly; but as the dis-
ease progressed, and the number of its victims multiplied,
the processions grew thinner and moved faster, until corpses
where whirled along in sweeping trots without a mourner.
Every house was a hospital, and small pieces of black crape
.hanging upon door-knobs everywhere over the town told that
death had. entered there. Midnight was made awful by the
wail of the bereaved.. It was like "Rachel weeping for her
children." Business--houses were all closed and all business
-stopped, and all the sounds of business were hushed, except
the eternal rat, tat, tat, rat, tat, tat, Qf the sexton's hammer.
The thoroughfares along which the tide of business had been
accustomed to rush were' as silent as a city of the dead,
broken only by the tramp of the hearse horse, or some soli-
tary person seeking drugs or ice; the latter to answer the
constant cry of the sick for "ice, 0 for a little ice !" Nurses
could not be had,i and the suffering among the poor was dis-
tressing beyond description; whole families were down at
once, and unable to answer the call for "ice, 0 for a little
ice ." In many instances their dead lay rotting beside them,
and none to help. The doctors and the few clergymen that
were spared were going day and night; relief associations
were formed, and disbanded by death. Over the silent city
death held his carnival. The hearses were unable to bear
off his victims, and drays and carts were loaded with the
dead and sent galloping to, the graveyard, where coffins lay


196      PLAYING FOR' AMUSEMENT.                                PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.        19~

in heaps waiting for interment. Entire families were swept
off, and in ~~any cas~s where survivors were left they did not
know which of the long rows of little mounds of fresh earth
covered the remains of their friends. Frost alone could
check the of the terrible epide~nic.
Among those who had 'been unable to leave, were Mrs. St.
Cloud and family. When the presence of the disease in the
city was authoritatively announced, it was discovered that
two of her servants were prostrate with i~; and she would
not leave them, and Alice refused to leave her. Col. Clark-
son sent word to Agnes to meet him at the house of a friend,
a few miles i~i the country, where she could spend the balance
of the season out of reach of the epidemic. Agnes made
every effort to induce Alice to accompany her, but in vain.
Vaughan generously offered, if Mrs. St. Cloud would leave,
and take Alice with her, to stay and take charge of the~ sick
servants, and see that they had all needful medical attention
and nursing; but, like the true mistress and noble woman
that she was, she said no; that the negroes had served her
faithfully wh~n in health, and she would not abandon them
in sickness, but would stay and nurse ~them through.
The parting between Alice and Agnes was affectiiig. When
it was evident that they had to part-~-part and place a disease
that was no respecter of' persons, that spared neither age nor
sex, beauty nor purity, between them-.--neither could speak.
The trufiks were packed' in silence, tears dripping as they
walked about the room. When all was ready, and the car-
riage waiting at the gate, the two walked together in the
little oratory, and kneeled before the family altar and prayed
for strength, resignation, and hope'. Agnes arose, pressed a
kiss upon Alice's forehead, turned, and left her kneeling;
left her in the hands of her God and, guardian angel, and,
seating herself in the old family carriage, it rumbled away
over the pavement, and up the steep hills, where she cast a
A

C
b
C

last fond look behind, as tbe heart closed upon scenes dear
as the memories of childhood.
A promise had been extracted from Alice by Agnes, that
if Alice should be attacked with the fever, she would send
for her. From day to day, from week to week, reports were
borne to her of the progress of th~ disease. To-day some
loved schoolmate, and to-morrow anotherjlad gone; to-day
some kind old man, upon whose knee she had sat in child-
hood; to-morrow some affectionate old lady who had warned
and guided her wayward footsteps, had gone; but Mrs. St.
Cloud, the kind nurse, and Alice, the ministering angel,
were safe and well. The season had far advanced, and the
weather had become cool, and frost reported in the low, moist
places, and death's carnival almost over; and Agnes began
to breathe freer and easier, when, late at night, the clatter
of a horse's hoof, in full gallop, and the loud "llalloo," as it
stopped at the gate, aroused the household. Col. Clarkson
jumped up and inquired:
"Who 's there ?"
"It's Simon,~ sir. Miss Alice mighty sick, and Missus
told me to come tell Mis~ Agnes. She was took day 'fore
yesterday; and Doctor say she 's mighty sick."
It was a severe trial to the anxious and fond parents; but
they had not the heart to refuse the call of friendship from
the early friend and companion of the idol daughter; and
the horses were hastily harnessed, and the carriage brought
out; and ere day Agnes was seated by the bedside of her
'friend, bathing her hot temples, and answering~ the ever-con-
stant cry, "Ice I 0 for a little ice I"
lit was soon noised over town that Alice St. Cloud was
siek-sick unto death; and, though money could not buy
help, 'the old and the young, the rich and the poor, the sick
and the well, came to offer their services. Death's hand was
upon the dear girl; but he djd his work slowly, as if loth to.


198         PIAAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
destroy so much beauty. She lay patient and uncomplaining
as a lamb. How soothing to the dying girl wa~ the memory
of the "God bless you" of the grateful poor to whose lips
she had held the cooling ice, in answer to the call, "Ice 1 0
for a little ice I" Death had thrown his scythe broadcast
over the city, but had reserved this beautiful sheaf for the
last. All the day and night before her death crowds were
coming and going on tiptoe through the house and yard.
When the sad hour came, in a low, almost inarticulate voice,
she said, "Dear Agnes, kiss me ;~' and the gentle spirit of
the lovely and loved Alice St. Cloud bore the kiss to heaven.
Site was dead. There was no wail there; there were no
tears' there; but there was grieg pure, perfect, and all-per-
vading~ 0, how heavy fell the stroke upon that mother!
It bore to the dust her brave heart. And Vaughan, poor
man! The star of his life went out in midday. And dear
Agnes! who sat like a marble ~tatue by the bed of death!
The dead was as beautiful as in life. Death had the power
to slay, but not to mar. r~hat pale, white face was as beau-
tiful ~is in life. hundreds came to look at it; and the pious
clipped a lock of the long raven hair, and braided it with
their relics; and many left their own dead to follow her re-
mains to the grave. A quiet spot in a retired part of the
graveyard was chosen for her last resting-place, where
have fltted a slab of the granite so gray;
And sweet Alice lies under the stone."
And thither each day at sunrise, whether hot or cold, wet or
dry, Mrs. St. Cloud went and sat, and sighed the weary hours
away, without a tear to relieve her overcharged heart. The
enclosure around the grave was neat and simple, and flower-
a vases were placed there, which she kept filled with fresh
flowers, from the shrubs of Alice's own planting. Each
night some unseen hand placed upon the slab a bouquet of the

PLAYING FOR A1~1USEMENT.               199
rarest and richest flowers, displa~eing the one of the day
before. She never inquired, but her heart told her Who it
was that thus nightly offered th'is incense of flowers to the
shade of the departed Alice. Frank Vaughan, the once
volatile trifler, it was, who thus laid his offering of love upon
the tomb of the dead of his heart.
When the epidemic subsided, and the citi~ ens returned,
they did not recognize in the pale, worn, gray-haired woman,
with face furrowed with premature wrinkles, the splendid-
looking lady and friend they had parted with only six or eight
weeks previous. The places of those who were taken by the
fever from the business mart were soon refilled, and the tide of
commerce rushed over the sad wreck which had been made
in the city, like the waves over the gallant vessel and crew
that sink beneath them. But the thoughtful needed not to
count the little hillocks and gravestones that stood thick in
the graveyard, to learn the ravages of the disease. He had
but to look upon that grief-worn face: it told even the care-
tess looker what death had done. hundreds of heartlistones
had been made desolate, hundreds of children nioth~rless,
and mother's childless. But death was not content to leave
the graveyard, the true index of his doings, to tell the in-
quirer of his triumphs; but, revelling in his success, he in-
scribed it upon that living monument of grief in characters
so broad, and lines so deep, as to force it upon the attention
of the buyers and sellers in Gotham, and those who dealt in
"purple and fine linen."
When in fall health, Alice, un er a presentiment that she
would die before ner friend, extra~teci a promise from Agnes
that if such should be the case she would join in chanting a
requiem at her funeral. The rage of the epidemic was such,
and so quick did its victims suece~d each other, that it was
impossible fo~ the service which the Church has appointed
V


~00         PLAYING    FOR~ AMUSEMENT.
}f'or the dead to be recited at the time of interment, and, at
e request of Mrs. St. Cloud, this service was performed for
her daughter as so6n' after the disappearance of the fever as
the services of a clergyman could be procured. Agnes re-
membered her promise, and nerved herself to the sadly pleas-
ing task of fulfilling it. An immense crowd of mourners
gathered {o witness and take part in the solemn ceremony.
The church and altar were draped in mourning, and all wore
a grandly solemn aspect. As ,the grief-stricken mother
walked slowly in, leaning upon the arm of Mrs. Clarkson,
dressed in deepest mourning, stopped and entered her pew,
and kneeled in silent prayer to God-the God of the widow---
hearVs that never prayed before, prayed then for her.
The drapery of the church, the solemnity of the occasion,
the impressive nature of the servWe, combined to make all
feel that God, and the dead, and a great grief were there.
When the full choir sounded the re~juiem, and one voice and
another dropped off, until a solitary fem~ic voice, sustained
by the low, deep tones of the organs was left trembling upon
the finer notes, and thrilling upward, upward, upward, until
the vast nave and dome were fille~, and the audience bap-
tized in harmony, and the soft, round, sweet, clear note
stretched away to heaven, and melted and died like the note
of the swan, the vast audience involuntarily bent the knee
and let the tears of sympathy drop without restraint. The
tribute thus paid to the impassioned young virgin of earth as
she chanted to her sister virgin in heaven was as affecting as
it was priceless. At the conclusion, Agnes was borne ex-
hausted from the church. She had fulfilled her promise, but
the trial had overtaxed her strength, and a severe attack of
~brain fever succeeded.
In her delirium, she would talk to and of Alice, strangely
confusing her name at times with that of Robert hamilton.

Mrs. St. Cloud was kept ignorant of her illness, as her know-
ledge of the suffering of Agnes would only have distressed
her, without relieving the sick.
Such was the grief of the bereaved in other that she took
no note of time, nor of any other change of nature. Her
motions were all mechanical: she rose at a certain hour and
took her toast and coffee, and visited the grave, where she
remained until sunset, and returned as she went. This was
done without reference to the season or the weather.
Agnes's constitution was a solid one, and it soon mastered
the disease. Upon her recovery, her heart felt a void-the
void which the loss of her friend had made; and her thoughts
and aching heart naturally turned to Robert Ihamilton, who
was then soon expected home. She loved' her parents with
all a daughter's true devotion; and she reverenced Mrs. St.
Cloud and the Hermit, and Frank Vaughan held a high place
in her esteem; but they could not fill the unsatisfied void.
Robert could. He had filled the place once, and he could do
it again. T hinkiiig of him thus, by degrees his almost for-
gotten image came back to reii~ssert its empire over her heart.
She wondered how she could have forgotten him so long, and if
he in return had forgotten her. The pain which the thought
of the possibility of his having forgotten Ii er in love for another
caused her, told her how dear lie was, and how necessary his
love was to her happiness. Four years and a half had passed
since she had seen him, aiid four since she had received any
direct news from him, and it would be six or eio-ht months
more before she would see him. Had he thought of her
through all this silence? Would he care for her when he
came home? Would he be changed ~n mind as well- as in
personal appearance? Would the m6ral beauty f4~~ which
she had so loved him be inarrej? These and many such
questions she would ask herself:, but they were questions

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.             201

201


PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.         203

202         PLAYING    FOIL AiV1U~~'J~ll~1LLNX.
which the future could alone answer, and what answer it
would give was far from being a matter of indifference to her,
though her resolute nature would not suffer her to pine and
dream away her youth.
CHAPTER XXIII.
WHILE Agnes was thus interroo'atino' herself and gi
expression tQ her fears and anxieties and re~nthroning I
ert in her affections, he was earnestly pursuing his stu
He had been a hard student, and a successful one, th
the college record did not say so. lie had not taken the
honors of his class at any one of the examinations, th
both teachers and classmates recognized him as decided~
best scholar in his class. He never studied a lesson-
studied authors, and mastered them. In his classical co
he never studied lessons, but strove to learn the langu
and did it; in mathematics he never studied a lesson,
the science, and learned it. While others were learning
sons to recite to teachers, he was learning a science or ma
ing a language. They learned something that they m
talk qf in after life and forget; he learned something to
and to use. Hence the lesson-learners, the glib conners-
of phrases made a better and readier ~how at examinat
and commencement seasons than he; but they felt am
knew that in valuable, substantial learning he was v~
their superior. As he did not study for show, nor the
of first prizes, but to acquire matter for after life-mat
to make himself a man-he was conte~i t that others sh
carry off the college palm, so he attain 4d his own solid ei
There was only one incident of no e connected with
college life. His habits of study and sobriety, and avoid~
of all those college scrapes which the master-shallows by

ving
Rob-
dies.
)ugh
first
)ugh
the
-he
urse
age,
but
les-
~ter-
ight
talk
over
ions
51 he
~stly
~clat
erial
ould
lds.
his
ince
e to

. ewry N Ti % W 'T3 17 Fil


204

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

brag of in after life, secured for him not only the esteem arid
confidence of his teachers, but also that of the people of the
town in which the college was located. All the better class
Qf the people sought his acquaintance, and shop-keepers were
anxious to get his name upon Their ledgers. This he prudently
avoided-buying only what he needed, and paying for what
lie bought; and when he was unable to pay the cash, he would
not buy, let the desire be what it might. Among his school
companions was young James Blunt, son of our old acquaint-
ance Mr. Blunt. James had been raised to idleness, and to
expect the indulgence and gratification of all his desires and
worthless fancies. An indulgent aunt and a club-going
father had suffered him to grow up without any particular
object in view other than to dress and to create a sensation in
society. 119 was inordinately attached to dress, and was a
good dancer-the best in the college. His instincts were
those of the animal man, rather than of the moral and intel-
lectual. The adornment of his person and the gratification
of his pleasures were o4,iects in life with him-ends to be at-
tained. He had not been taught to do or to learn for the
sake of the thing done or learned, but for his own sake-as a
success to himself. He dressed not because the occasion
required it, but that James Blunt might look well; he learned
the courtesies of life not that he might contribute to social
entertainment, or help to make others feel at ease, but that
James Blunt might cut a figure in society; he went to col-
lege not that he might become learned and useful, but that
James Blunt might, like other fashionable young men of his
acquaintance, have it to say that he had been to college.
Thus, James Blunt was the object and aim of James Blunt;
and, in all tl~is, he was by no means an exception among the
regiment of his companions at home. His was rather the
rule, and Robert's course of life the, exception. James was
traightdimbed young man, with small hand and foot, to

U1

FLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.             205
hich his aunt often pointed as a mark of his aristocracy,
r ther than of a sickly childhood; his head was as small as
I is hands and feet, and he took equal care of each; he wore
t ic neatest-fitting boot, the nicest gloves, and the smoothest
h t-the latter he wore on the side of his head-his hair
ai d white pocket-handkerchief being always well perfumed.
He was slender, and, but for a certain air of insignificance,
would have been rather handsome. With his wants gratified,
lie was an inoffensive, idle, pleasure-loving, foppish young
man, likely to be ei~tirely worthless as a member of society.
His wants, however, were of a kind a full purse could supply,
but a full purse was not always at his command. When his
father had a good run of luck, and won large stak e~, James
was abundantly supplied;, but when a rainy day came-and
men who bet to count the game have rainy days as well as
farmers-James was neglected, and his clothes at such tines
would often become so worn as to give him the appearance
of the shabby-genteel, to his great mortification. . Towards
the close of Robert Hamilton's last year in college, there
came one of these rainy spells upon Blunt. Talk as fast as
he might, but as high as he might, and sWear as loud and
profanely as he might at his cards and the luck, the count
was against him. Jellies was of course neglected. He wrote
letter after letter for means to refurnish his wardrobe, but it
did not conic. His college bills were unpaid, but he did not
think of them, they djd not mortify him, and he did not
write for mon ~y to pay the~~. The shop-keeper's~, the tailor's,
and the shoen~ aker's bills were all unpaid, and had been sent
to his father ihore than once for payment and returned, but
he did not ask for money to pay them. These were all matters
that did not concern him; the bill-holders were not James
Blunt, and James Blunt was the individual he was sent into
the world to take care of. He was willing that those bills
should be paid, but never bestowed a thought upon them,

R


PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT..           207

206      PLAYING rou AMUSEMENT.

nor lost a minute's sleep on their account. If his father had
paid them, and he had been supplied with means to meet his
wants, and he had given himself the trouble to think of it,
he would have been rather pleased than otherwise. The
money, however, did not c6n~e, either to refurnish his ward-
robe or to pay the bills; and his clothes had become so worn
and threadbare that he had not a decent suit left, and had to
borrow one of a college-mate when he accepted any of the
invitations to attend the dancing-parties of town. His pants
had all been darned, and his coats were out at the elbows.
About that time a new clothing establishment was opened
near the college, and the proprietor was anxious to secure the
college custom. He was an acquaintance of young Hamilton,
and used every exertion to induce him to visit his establish-
ment. Having occasion to make some trifling purchase,
Robert visited the stove, accompanied by a number of the
young men from the college, among them James Blunt, who
had borrowed a blanket overcoat of a schoolfellow for the
purpose. The proprietor was extremely polite, and conducted
them over his well-filled establishment, displaying his "latest
Frencb~ styles" in the most seductive manner. Fe~ or no
purchases were made, but an impression had been made upon
those fond of dress, which the shopkeeper regarded as an
earnest of many future sales. Robert did not bestow a second
thought upon what had taken complete hold of the mind and
desires , of others, and returned to l~is books with double
diligence, to make' up for the time the shopkeeper had forced
him to lose in looking at and praising wares that he knew
but little of and cared less. The next morning he was as-
tounded and mor ified to learn that some one of his party on
the evening before had stolen a pair of fine cassimere pants
from the store on the evening previous. And, to make ~iat-
ters worse, he wa told that the clerk who gave the inform-
ation alleged that it was done by a ydung man with a blanket

coat He had worn a blanket coat himself, and was not aware
that any one else had; hence, it behooved him to use every
effort to detect the culprit as the best means of vindicating
himself. Upon inquiry, he learned that James Blunt had
worn a coat of that description, and called at his room:
"James," he began, "I am distressed to learn that after
we left the store on last evening it was discovered that some
one of our party had stolen a pair of pants; and as we are all
more or less implicated-and you and II more particularly,
as it is said to have been done by some one wearing a blanket
coat-it is a duty we owe to ourselves and all the innocent to
expose the thief."
"Somebody stole a pair of pants !" he exclaimed with
natural surprise and some alarm.
"Yes; and you must aid me to discover the culprit. Who
else besides you and I wore a blanket coat ?"
"IL do not know."
"Do you know of any one who has a pair of new pants of
the description of those stolen-a pair of fine French cassimere
uants ?"
"Nobody, except myself. I received a pair very much
of that description from home on yesterday."
"On yesterday, you say ?"
"Yes, sir."
"116w did they come
"By the Packet."
"By the Packet!"
"Yes ;" drawing his breath hard and his eyes ready to ~tart
from their sockets.
"Why, James, James! The Packet did not arrive on
yesterday." This was said at a venture, as he did not know
whether it had arrived on that day or not.
"Great God !" exclaimed James, holding up his hands and
looking, wild, "I am ruined !~ IL stole the pants !" He covered

I                                        -~


208      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

his face in his hands and sank in a chair and begged: "0,
Robert! save me from exposure I"
"If I can I will. If no one clse knows of this, I shall
never speak of it. Give me the pants, and I will return
them, and answer no questions-not even to vindicate
myself."
He topk the pants and returned them, and was greatly
relieved by the clerk, who witnessed the act, declarino~ that
he was not the one who did it. He refused to give the~name
of the culprit to the shop-keeper or to the city authorities.
News of the theft soon reached the college 'faculty and
Robert was summoned before them to give information L~
it. The president, who was a very rigid moralist and d scip-
linarian, asked to know the facts.
"As near as I can give them," said Robert, "the are
these : On yesterday evening, after college hours, so' oral
young gentlemen and myself visited the new clothing-store
on the corner, and while there one of the young men stole a
pair of pants. The pants have been recovered and returned
to the owner."
"Do you know who stole th~ pants ?"
"I do."
"Who was it ?"
"I am unwilling to say; and. I have promised the young
man not to expose him."
"You must be aware, Mr. Hamilton, that if, knowing of
the theft, we retain the thief in the college, it will injure the
institution, and we must know who he is, that he may be ex-
pelled, and the character of the school vindicated, and an
evil companion removed from among the other young men."
"I am aware of this, and would not willingly do any thing
that the guardians of the institution may think would injure
it, and am reluctant to decline doing what they think need-
ful for its c~efence; but I have no doubt this is the young

PLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.             209
man's first step in crime, and I think his imaginary, or per-
Imps real wants, and not a bad heart or vicious disposition,
led him to it; rand I hope and believe it will be his last; but
if he be exposed and publicly disgraced, he will be ruined
beyond the hope of reclaim. I can ha~re no part in his dis-
grace. You must excuse me."
"We cannot excuse you; you must answer. By refusing
to expose the offender, you become a party to his crime. If
there be error in dealing severely with a case of this nature,
the error and the blame ar6 ours, not yours. It is better that
the offender be punished; and his fate serve as a warning to
the idle and vicious, than that the college be injured, and
his companions compromised. The reputation and the morals
of the young men here are intrusted to us; it is a sacred
trust, and we wish to acquit ourselves of it to the satisfaction
of those who have reposed it in us as far as we may, but
which we fall far short of doing if we retain as their daily
companion and equal a detected thief. It would be alniost
criminal for us to do such a thing. If the offence were a
venal one, a youthful indiscretion, we would willingly excuse
you from testifying; and now we respect, indeed appla~id the
kindly feeling which induces you to ask to be excused; but
we cannot excuse, you: you must testify."
"It is painful for me to refuse obedience to your com-
mand. I have now been under your tuition for nearly five years,
and have never been before you, for an infraction of college
rules, and Ii have labored hard to acquit myself of bhime in
both studies and deportment, and regret upon the eve of my
last term to find myself opposed to my teachers in a matter
of this grave' character; but I must in this, ~s in all I have
done since my entrance here, do what my conscience tells me
is right."
"Sir," said the president, who was impatient of opposition,
with decision and emphasis, "you must answer. The repu-


210

PLAYING FOI~ AMUSEMENT.

station of this institution is deeply involved, and it must and
shall be vindicated."
"Sir !" and his eye flashed as the faculty had never seen it
flash before, "I would not bow the face of the young of-
~fender's parents in the dust, and place him beyond i~he pale
of reform by publicly denouncing him, for all the institutions
of learning in the land."
"Do you mean to brave my authority, young man
"I do iiot mean to turn informer against my schoolfellow,
and violate my pledge to him."
"Unless you answer, I shall expel you."
"Then all I have to say, sir, is-.-.
-' It is excellent
To have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous
To use it as a giant.'"
"Don't quote poetry at me, young man. You can take
until morning to decide whether you will answer or leave the
college."
"I need no time to consider; my decision is made."
"No more ~words; you can retire, sir."
Robert adhered to his rQsolution; but, fortunately for him,
a knowledge of the name of the offender reached the faculty
through .others, and the necessity of his answering was ob-
viated. James was expelled, and Robert Hamilton ~publicly
admonished, but in a way that the admonition was rather a
compliment than a censure.
It was poor James's first step in sin, and taken without the
mind, to sin, but from the want of moral strength to resist a
temptation, which, but for his raising, would have been no
temptation at all. I~Iis personal comfort and adornment were
objects, ends to be trainedd by him, and the means by which
they were to be attained had never been impressed upon
him as the primary object. If he had been taught to con-

I
I
I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

211

sider the means to the end as superior in a moral point
to the end itself:, the temptation would not have been gre-
sented, and he would not have fallen. Much stronger men
than James Blunt find it impossible to resist temptation; but
all, even the weak, can avoid it. A person may be so raised,
and his tastes so cultivated, that temptation will rarely assail
him. The man of sober habits is not tempted by the sparkle
of the wine-cup, nor the plain man of business by the rattle
of the dice-box; but when these things are indulged until
they become temptations, they are rarely if ever ~resisted;
hence the importance of avoiding the formation of a vicious
habit, or one that may tempt to vice. No man sins for the
love of sinning, unless he be a very depraved wretch indeed.
The thief does not steal for the love of stealing; the miser
does not swindle for the love of swindling; the drunkard
does fiot drink for the love of drunkenness; these passions,
when they become passions, are indulged for some ulterior
end. One steals to save hi~n from labor; and one swindles
to add ill-gotten gains to his ill-gotten heap; and the other
drinks to satisfy his inordinate thirst for strong liquors. These
appetites or passions are artificial, and if never created, there
would be no temptation to gratify them. James Blunt had
an inordinate desire to dress genteelly, and suffering mortifi-
cation from his inability to gratify that desire, when 'the
means of gratifying it were presented, the temptation was too
strong for his imperfect moral training, and he yielded. To
another it would have been no temptation at all: it would
have been no temptation to Robert Hamilton; it would have
been none to the president of the college. What a warning
should it not be to parents!

0


212

PLAYING FOR AMUS]~IMENT.

ChAPTER XXIV.
"And these once learned, what wants the tempter now
To snare the stoutest champion of men ?"
IT was the desire of Dr. Floyd, and the other friends of
Robert at home, that he should visit Washington City after
his graduation, and remain there during the session of Con-
gress. Letters were accordingly furnished, by means of
which he obtained introductions to the leading men of the
nation. He eagerly sought the acquaintance of a distin-
guished Senator from the West, whose talents and fame had
excited his imagination; also that of the President, and others
who filled the great offices of state, and who were placed by
his young fancy at an immeasurable distance above the great
herd of men, and far removed from their follies and vices:
He was surprised to find that officers were but men after all-~
men who ate and drank and talked and walked like other
men, and some of them mere political stop-gaps, men who
filled places to keep others out, without any fitness for the
places themselves. His hand trembled and voice faltered, as
he pm~esentcd his letters of introduction to his beau-ideal of a
great man and statesman; but the easy, affable manner of the
Senator disembarrassed him, and put him quite at ease.
Through Senator - he was introduced to the President
and heads of departments, and learned the men and means
whereby the machinery of government was moved. It was a
relief to observe the republican simplicity of the great bulk

I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

213

of those~to whom the nation had confided the direction of
public affairs. lie was almost as much confused and be~
wildered, and in as much danger of losing his identity, when
invited by the President to dine with him, as was Abou
Hassan in the palace of the Caliph Haroun Alraschid. lie
could not help but love and venerate the government that
made the unpretending, shy, and awkward college student
the equal of the President, the~head of the nation. In the
evening, the Senator called at his hotel, arid kihdly offered to
show him some of the sights to be seen and enjoyed in Wash-
ington. After seeing much that was novel and interesting,
it was proposed to go to P-'s and get a lunch: every
sportsman who has ever visited Washington knows who
was. They stopped at the door of a large magnificent.
establishment, and pulled the bright silver bell-knob: an old
gray-haired negro man, with the manners of a gentleman,
answered the call, and recognizing the Senator, gave an in-
quiring look at hamilton, to which the Senator answered,'
"All right." They were asked in, and the Senator, who
seemed perfectly at home, led the way up a flight of stairs to
a spacious and splendid saloon, brilliantly lighted with gas,
and more richly furnished than the President's mansion. He
could scarcely suppress an exclamation of surprise and won-
der. The proprietor gave him a warm welcome to the hos-'
pitalities of the house, and attentive and polite servants soon:
served up for them a lunch as elegant as money could buy, or
the appetite of an epicure crave. After lunch, the Senator~
excused himself:, and telling Hamilton if he should desire
to leave before his return he would find him in No. 8, up-'
stairs, where he had engaged to meet some friends, he left
Hamilton in the care of the proprietor. Hamilton was in
a sort of maze, and was unable ,tq conjecture what sort of a
place it was, but he felt assured of its respectability, else
the Senator would not himself be so much at ease there, and


214        PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
would not have left him alone. Still there was a pressure
about the heart that told him that all was not exactly right.
The proprietor, quick to read countenances, noticed Ham-
ilton's embarrassment, and said:
"You seem debating with yourself as to what sort of a
place your friend has introduced you to."
Hamilton blushed at being thus understood, but was too
honest to affect what was not true, and replied:
"You are right~ Im just from college, and a stranger
)    7
in the city." y  ~.           ) c/~
"You are in what the woi4d, and especially the pious, have
agreed to call a gambling-hell."
The start which Hamilton gave, assured the proprietor that
*he was not a frequenter of such places, and he said:
"I imagine you are not familiar with the scenes and sports
you are likely to meet with here, and my advice to you is to
remain so. You are, however, welcome here, and to the hos-
pitalities of the place, whether you participate in the games
or not. I need not tell you that lunch can be had here from
ten o'clock till three, and from eight till twelve. Come
whenever you feel disposed; you will never find any but the
most respectable men in the land here, a majority of whom
are Senators, Congressmen, Judges, and G cnerals. If you
will allow me, I will conduct you through the establish-
ment."
Hamilton thought any thing better than standing still, and
assented. Upon entering the gambling saloon, he perceived
at a glance that the proprietor's boast of the quality of hi~
guests was but too true: All the "gambling games" -n-as
certain chance games which depend upon the turning or a
card or the motion of a wheel, independent of the skill or
genius of the player, are called-were in full tide. Hamilton
was surprised to see, seated about the tables, Congressmen and
Senators who the day before had spoken eloquently upon the

U

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                215
insufficiency of their per diem. He noticed that they lost
hur~dreds upon each turn of a card or the roll of a wheel, with
the utmost unconcern. The proprietor enjoyed his surprise,
and said, pleasantly:
"From the way that old man loses, you think he will need
an increase of his per diem, lich? You are right. Per diems
have built this house; per diem~ have furnished it; per
diems have purchased and stocked the tables and wheels you
see here. Like the N. C.s, I am in favor of an increase of
per diems."
While looking on with an entranced sort of interest, Vhe
door-bell rang, and a tall, fine-looking man walked in, with a
confident, resolute step. He walked up to one of the banks,
and asked:
"Any limit to the stake ?"
"None," answered the dealer, without looking up. The
N. C.s who sat around the bank, betting freely, were too
deeply interested i 4 their stakes to notice the interruption.
The stranger walked to a light, and taking out a roll of bank-
bills, counted them, re-rolled them, and returned and placed
them on the "queen of hearts." Shuffle, cut, turn: the
"queen of hearts" won. The dealer took up the roll, and
counted. The first was a thousand dollar bill; so of the
'second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth,
tenth, and eleventh! The money was counted out without a
word-no noise, except the slip, slip, slip of the bills, as they
were counted out. The stranger, without a word to any one,
gathered up his winnings, and left the saloon as he had
entered. Hamilton could not help feeling that eleven thou-
sand dollars of~per. diems were stuffed away in the pockets
of the desperate player. He noticed, as the stranger left, that
a man, whose face had impressed him unpleasantly, and who
had apparently lost his last stake, arose and left also. None
of the players seemed to notice it; and, if they did, they


2Th       PLAYING 3?OR AMUSEMENT.                                      PLAYING Fo1~ AMUSEMENT.         217

thought it natural enough, as he had nothing more to lose.
His look and manner, however, excited a suspicion in Hamil-
ton's mind, but which the fascination of every thing around
soon caused him to forget. The scene-the intense excite-
mont of the players, as they watched the number upon which
their per diem was staked-the silence with which they 're-
ceived back and paid out their per diems or army pay-
fascinated him as the eye of the snake does that of the bird.
He, however, had moral strength enough left to turn from it
and seek the Senator. It was a relief to him to know that
these things had no charm for the great statesman who had
introduced him there; and, with a cum~iosity fully satisfied,
he ~ou~ht No. 8, where he expected to find the Senator en-
gaged with a select committee upon the great affairs of state;
but what was his surprise to find him and senators from three
Southern States seated, with the President of the United
States, around a table, playing for amusement, and betting
to count a game of poker! an old acquaintance he thought
he had left in the Mississippi swamps-the same game at
which h~ had seen his uncle and Col. Clarkson play. It had
alway~ been a distressing doubt with him whether this poker-
playing was not gambling, and he had tried to persuade him-
self that it was not; for he loved both his uncle and Col.
Clarkson, and from his mother he had inherited a strong re-
pugnance to gambling, and could not think that those he
loved were blackened with a crime of the sort. In the father
of the being he loved with youth's unselfish devotion, by the
hght of whose example he had been able to choose virtue
rather than vice, in the husband of her who had been to him
a second mother, he strove to see nothing but what was pure
and good. He had therefore tried to convince himself that
playing for amusement and betting to count the game was
not gambling, though he had not altog~her succeeded..
hence, great as was his disappointment at seeing these

distinguished personages and leading officers of State amus-
ing them selves at a game of "push-pin" that contrasted
unpleasantly with the dignity of their ch~acters and place,
he experienced a feeling of relief; for it assured him that it
was but "amusement." For had they not avoided the "gam-
bling saloons," and all the "gambling games," and sought a
relaxation rrom the cares of state in an innocent game of
poker? He was somewhat startled to see what a large sum
of money it required to count the game. The price of a
good "field-hand" changed owners at every deal, and each
player seemed better pleased with himself and the cards as
his stakes grew larger; but this latter he persuaded himself
was simply the pleasure one feels at the success which at..
tends his skill, and not the suggestion of greed, the love of'
~'amn.
* He was asked to join in the game, but declined, not from
conscientious scruples, but because of the smallness of his
purse, and had the youthful honesty and simplicity to say so.
Upon being assured that that need not deter him, as he could
"have a sight for his money," he accepted the invitation.
Conscience may have smote him as he seated. himself at the
table, and drew from his pocket the imperfectly-filled purs~
which Agnes had, five years before, made for him; but What
were the upbraidings of the Conscience of an inexperienced
boy to the matured judgments of the great and good men
whom the nation "delighted to honor ?"
Like most new players, he held "good hands," and though
the betting continued high, he left off winner. The playing
did not ce~se until late, and the Senator kindly accompanied
him to his hotel.
On Th~ir way to the hotel, they stumbled upon 'some one
lying on the.~ cement, apparently drunk ~ but by the light
of a ~distant ig -lamp, they saw that he was stained with
bloods Watchmen were called, and lights brought, when

I
H


218       PLAYING FOB~ A1~~USEMENT.                                       PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.            219

the body was discovered to be stark and stiff. The man bad
been assassinated. The knife that did the deed entered be-
tween the neck ar&amp;1 collar-bone, and had been driven to the
heart. Hamilton recognized him as the stranger who had
won the large stake at the saloon during the evening, and
guessed whose hand held the steel, and why. Upon examina-
tion, a purse with a few hundred dollars in it, a fine gold
watch, private papers, etc., were found upon his person; but
none of the twenty-two thousand dollars he pocketed in the
saloon. The things found upon his person were evidently
left to create the impression that something else than a desire
of plunder had occasioned the deed. He proved to be a
Tennesseean, of wealth and standing, but who was fond of
sporting.
From the mouth of the dull, closed wound through which
his soul had found quick passage to the judgment-seat, came
a warning voice to Hamilton to shun the path by which the
victim of the card-table had come to his untimely and awful
end. For a day or two, he was inclined to listen to its warn-
ing; but the example of the living was more powerful than
the voice of the dead, and as all the more agreeable compan-
ionships were to be found in the resorts of vice, he soon fell
into the current, and became a frequenter of the saloons and
an adept in cards, confining himself scrupulously to the games
that were played for "amusement," and shunning all the
gambling games.
One evening, some young gentlemen, who, like himself,
played only for "amusement," who would scorn to play for
money, proposed a game called "' brag," which was new to
him, but which was just as "a~nusing" and as innocent as
poker. He did no~ understand it exactly, but understood
that "two bullets and a bragger"-that is, t o~ aces and a
jack-were "invincible." He knew the ca s well enough
to know that two persons might hold an "invincible" as he

understood it. He noticed that the others, when they sat
next to the dealer, generally said, "I pass the age ;" and,
without knowing what it meant, would always say so himself.
The game had progressed for some time with indifferent suc-
cess, and he noticed that a young man, for whom he had
formed a high regard, was disposed to "run at him." He
understood it as in sport, rather than a desire to win his
money, and allowed himself to be amuseLat it. He finally
had dealt to him "two bullets and a bragger," and, as usual,
said, "I pass the age." His friend bet modestly, and Ham-
ilton went a few dollars "better." When his friend was
about going "better," Hamilton, not wishing to win his
money, kindly said to him,
"Don't bet, II have an invincible."
"Very well; I'll go fifty better anyhow."
"You are foolish to do so, for I tell you I have an invin-
cible, and of course I won't call you. Take down your money;
you will lose it."
"Never do you mind my money; bet if you want to."
"I tell you again I have an invincible-I'll go five better."
"And I'll go two hundred and fifty better; which is all I
have."
"I beg you not to do it; I tell y~u again I have an in-
vincible, and I do not wish to win your money. Take back
your money; I am bound to win it."
"Do you bet, and never mind me."
"Yevy well; I won't let the stake go any higher, and I
call you. You see, Ii have two bullets and a bragger."
"Yes; but I have the age!"
hamilton's lip turned white as he noticed his friend take
down the stakes, which had been won upon his own ignorance
of the value of his cards. He could not but view it as a
grade less than swindling, but was reluctant tQ. think it in
keeping with the morals of the card-table, but as peculiar to


PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
~2O        PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
the man he had mistaken for a gentleman. His only resent~
mont was to rise from the table, saying: "I shall always
know what 'passing the age' means after this, and with whom
to play. Good day, gentlemen."
CHAPTER XXV.
"'Tis ever thus
With noble minds, if chance they slide to folly:
Remorse stings deeper, and relentless conscience
Pours more of gall into the bitter cup
Of their severe repentance."
* Tun largest portion of Hamilton's patrimony was in i
His uncle, who was the guardian of his property as ~
of his person, had used some of it to count the gain
would have used it all in that way if the surety c
guardian's bond had not cautioned him to make a bet~
of it, or otherwise he would ask to ~be released from the
To avoid an exposure to which such a thing would s
him, he had prudently husbanded the balance; and, sup~
that Hamilton might desire to use it in the purchase of n
in Virginia, sent him the bulk of it in checks, that he
thus employ it if he desired. Hamilton had chosen the
his profession, and, uncertain as to 14s future location
dently determined not to invest his money until better a
as to his future home. When he left for home, there
exchanged his checks for checks upon Louisville, an~
his arrival there drew the money and took passage on
the first-class steamers for Bluff City. Upon the b4
found that habits and morals had not changed-the
table, as five years before, was * in constant demand. I
eyes, however, its immorality did not appear as befor
~oemed a very innocent and pleasant pastime. The fami

221
noney.
~rel1 as
e~ and
)n the
~er use
bond.
subject
posing
egroes
might
law as
i, pru-
dvised
we, he
I upon
me of
at he
card-
[n his
e. It
clarity


222         PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.                                            PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.             223

of every thing made him feel very much at home. Men swore
the same oaths and took the same large drinks of liquor as
before. He had not learned to swear nor to drink, but he
had learned to play, and was ready to take a hand.
Among the dashy and dissolute young men with whom he
had associated in the national capital he acquired an off-hand,
confident manner, foreign to himself, but which won for him
among the oif-hand, familiar, easy-mannered, loose-moraled
men usually met on steamboats, the character of a "boon com-
panion," which means a man who talks at random, mocks at
morals, and spends his nioney without stint upon every new-
fledged acquaintance. At Memphis a number of new passen-
gers came on board, and among them Hamilton was delighted
to meet a ~entleinan from Bluff City who was well acquainted
with all his friends and relatives there. Hamilton did not
recollect him, but the perfect history lie gave of everybody
and every thing about the Bluffs, and of his uncle and Col.
Clarkson and his family, and his assurance, given with a
knowing wink, that brought the blood mounting to Hamilton's
face, that somebody's "eye" would "mark" his "coming and
grow brighter" when he came, placed him upon the footing
of a trusted and familiar friend. He introduced himself as
Morton, a relative of a family of that name well known to
Hamilton as visitors at his uncle's house. Morton had many
good jokes to relate of Ni ekols, Blunt, and other sporting
men who had been seen by Hamilton in company with his
uncle and Clarkson, told of; games they had played together,
and described scenes and times which were familiar to Hamil-
ton as the playground of his school-days. He described the
funeral of Alice St. Cloud and the great grief of her mother,
and the settled melancholy of Frank Vaughan. Tired of
conversation, they took a seat at the card-table, played, and
rose up still better friends. Hamilton was charmed with the
easy nonclialant manner his friend received his winnings and

U

bore defeat-..-a decided mark of a gentleman in Hamilton's
estimation. He had a well-bred, gentlemanly indifference to
money, and was as apt to bet a large stake upon an indifferent
hand as upon a good one. While interested in relating some
agreeable incident to Hamilton, he would "pass out" upon a
very fine hand, or foolishly bet upon a very mean one, and
would remark it with a careless toss up of the cards and a
continuation of the conversation, which made Hamilton re-
prove him half a dozen times for his extreme carelessness.
Morton was fond of a glass of brandy, and urged Hamilton to
take a glass, and, in spite of his refusal, would always make
the barkeeper bring a glass for him, and would insist each
time and say: "Why, you don't know what is good, my
boy; try it." This patronizing air, and calling him "boy,"
made Hamilton feel as if he would never be a man until he
could take a drink "like a man." hence, he could withstand
the bantering no longer, and drank part of his glass. It of
course inflamed his imagination and loosened his tongue, and
gave him a better opinion of himself than he had ever had
before, and more disposed to play the "gentleman"-.which
was to. bet high and recklessly and pay with grace. After
drinking once, he was too much of a man to refuse when
liquor was again called for; and though he did not drink
deep, he very soon lost his balance of mind and swaggered,
and bet at random. His companion was not affected by what
lie had drunk, for though be talked much, and had run
Hamilton upon his temperance and not "knowing what was
good," he took care to make his own potations small.
The betting grew high and almost furious. The more
moderate players withdrew from the game, and stood around
and looked on. The interest became so intense that no note
was taken of time: the boat stopped and wooded, and glided
off down stream without note by the players; passengers


IL'

224

PLAYING FOIL'AMTJSEMENT.

would get off, and new ones come Thoard, without observa-
tion. Hamilton got the best hands he ever got in his life
before, but still he would loss; he bet higher, but still he
lost; he doubled the stake,~ in hope luck would turn in his
favor, but he still lost. Such desperate playing, and such an
amount of money changing hands, absorbed the attention of
the entire boat's company, and a universal sympathy was felt
f~r the young man who was fast being beggared.
Neither of the players appeared to notice a gentleman who
had been for some time promenading to and fro past the
table, and would stop while the cards were being shuffled and
dealt, and scrutinize closely the dealer, and then renew the
promenade, casting furtive glance~ at the table as he passed.
Whoever it was, evidently suspected foul play upon the part
of Hamilton's new friend. This stopping while the cards
were being shuffled and dealt, and renewal of the promenade,
attracted no observation from either the players or the
lookers-on; and the stranger seemed finally to lose all interest
in the game, and walked to and fro without appearing to
notice further progress. Hamilton had lost more than half
his fortune, and was eager to regain it, and was determined
to lose all or win back what he had lost. Morton shuffled
and dealt; Hamilton had four kings and a queen. It was a
splendid hand, and he was determined to risk all upon it,
win back his patrimony, and "jump the game. ~' He was
afraid his adversary would take the alarm and refuse to bet.
He, therefore, bet cautiously at first. Morton bet back at
him, and so the betting continued until Hamilton had every
cent he could command, and his watch and jewelry, upon the
table. The excitement around the table was so intense as to
be painful. Hamilton was flushed and breathed hard, his
nostrils were distended like those of a high-mettled courser
Tlie promenade stopped,~aud alIpressed about the table, aux

PLAYING FOR AM1JSEMENT~

225

ions to' see the result, with a painful apprehension that the
young man was bankrupt, for all suspected the dealer of
cheating.
"Ii call you," said Hamilton, as he put up his last stake.
"What do you do it on?"
"Four kings ;" displaying his hand and reaching for the
money.
"Not so fast," said Morton; "I have four aces !"
Hamilton's face turned to marble, and his eyes were fixed
in their sockets like those of' a dead man. A murmur of
disappointment and sympathy ran through the bystanders;
and as Morton said, "The 'money's mine," and was in the
act of drawing it to him, some one with a long arm and long
bony fingers reached from among the ~rowd, and, clutching
the money, said in a voice that electrified both players and
lookers-on:
"No, sir; the money's mine ~
Hamilton started, and, looking up, saw the Hermit, with
his gray locks and reproachful face, standing before him.,
The defeated and enraged gambler caught at the money, and
was in the act of drawing a dagger, when the Hermit took
him by the breast, and, looking him firmly in the face, said:
"How dare you! How dare you !" and held him as if in a
vice. The ~gambler quailed before his fierce look. "You
would swindle the young man out of his fortune by stocking
the cards, and then stab an old man who would rescue him I"
The excitement was immense, and the scene beyond de-
scription. The gray locks, the resolution, and the virtuous
indignation of the old man, and the terror of the gambler as
the old man held him fast, and the excited bystanders, who
stood ready to execute upon him any order the Hermit might
give, with the astonishment and fortificationon of Hamilton,
formed a striking picture. Turning -to Hamilton, the Hermit
said:
8

7k


226      PLAYING     FOR AMUSEMENT.
"Here, young man, is your money. Count out your
losings, a~d return the balance, if any, to this swindler and
would-be cut-throat. And as for you, sir," turning to the
gambler, "you leave this boat." He then called the captain
and had the gambler put ashore.
This done, the Hermit turned to Hamilton, and said in a
tone of half authority and half entreaty:
"Never play another card, nor drink another dram."
"I promise you, as God is my helper and judge, I never
will."
"Do not swear, sir; especially by that august name."
"I did not intend to swear. ii am excited, and used stronger
language than I intended. My dear father and friend, you
have saved me. I cannot thank you; words will not express
my thanks; but believe me, I have drunk my last dram and
played my last game of cards."
The sincere and earnest look and manner of Hamilton
more than his words affected th~ old man, and he turned
away with more emotion than he had ever been known to
display toward any except Agnes.
The boat met with an accident which detained her for
some time on the river, and three pr four days elapsed before
she arrived at Bluff City. The eilnbarrassi~ient of Robert in
the presence of the Hermit soon passed off, and, noticing
that the old man was about leaving the boat with the design
apparently of returning to ~' the Bend," and divining the
cause, he approached him and said:
"Ii cannot consent to this; go on to Bluff City; I prefer it.
You think your presence, and the recollection of what has
passed, will diminish the pleasure bf the reunion with my
friends; but you are mistaken; I shall confess all; and your
presence will relieve rather than increase my mortification.
Besides, the thought that my misconduct had been the means
of preventing you and them from seeing each other, and en-

I

r

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

227

joying each other's society, would distress me far more than
your presence can, let it rebuke me as much as it may. You
must go; I would not for any thing have it otherwise."
The Hermit yielded; and the balance of the trip down, the
two were like father and son. The gratitude and filial affec-
tion of Robert were expressed in a manner that plQased and
won the old man; and if his confidence in Ilamiltcn had
ever been shaken, it was restored before they landed at the
Bluffs.


228

PLAYING FORAMUSEMENT.

CHAPTER XXVI.
"Wilt thou be undone?
Resign the towering thought, the vast design,
With future glories big? the warrior's wreath,
The praise of senates, an applauding world?
All for a sigh? all for a soft embrace ?"
ROBERT found Agnes all his heart could wish: she satis-
fied his ambition and his fancy. She was' ~as beautiful in
mind as in person, loving and beloved, and her life was a
living personation of trutlS Her delight at seeing the Her-
mit was unbounded. ~he would involuntarily walk vip and
stand by him, or tak~ her seat near him as he sat in the
family circle, ever participating all his wants and wishes. He
only remained a day in the city. At parting, he hung around
her neck a string of pearls to which was attached a small
locket. Opening the locket after he left, she saw a miniature
face of most exquisite beauty aiA trust, and a dried rose-
leaf. She could only guess the meaning, and held each sa-
cre4.
The day after the Hermit left, Robert and Agnes visited
the' grave of Alice St. Cloud. The sad mother was there.
Twelve months had passed, and she still kept watch at the
tomb of her child~ Robert and Agnes recited a prayer, and~
laid their offering of flowers upon the cold granite, and re-
tired.

I

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

229

On their way home, Robert gave a full history of his five
years' exile, his card-playing, and the scene on the boat.
"Excuse me dear Agnes~allow me to call you so-for
thus' wearying you with this tedious history of myself. I feel
that you are all truth, and we cannot be to each other what I
wish us to be without the utmost frankness on my part; and,
besides, I could not bear to have you hear of my vices from
another. I have nothing extenuated; I have told you all;
ey 'have this extent, no farther.~~~
"The recital," she replied, "so far from being tiresome,
"Then you do not despise me for my vices ?'~
been very entertaining to me. It has filled the gap which
five years have made in our acquaintance."
"No, Robert; though T do not excuse them. I never
thought you perfect. My surprise is, not that you strayed
from the path of right, but that with such temptations you
should not have gone farther; and I am happy, 0, how
happy! that my dear old friend, whom I so love and rever-
ence, should have been the means of saving you. I say
saved, for II have that confidence in you which will not per-
mit me to doubt that you will sacredly keep your promise to
hinL"
"I thank you for your confidence; and next to the happi~
ness this assurance gives me, is the consciousness on my own
part that it is not misplaced. It would have distressed me
more than I could well have expressed, or you willingly be-
lieve, to feel that I had or have lost any, even the slightest
portion of the confidence of one who is and has been to me
more than a ~ist~r-more than all tho world else. Whether
sleeping or waking,, whether poring over musty books, or
wandering alone in the wild woods, my 1~houghts were of you,
and my highest ambition, after pleasing my Maker, was your
approbation. Others carried off the college prizes, when
teachers and scholars decla~'ed m~ more deserving. I


230

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

cared not for that; it was not the prize I struggled for; the
acquittal of my conscience, and the approval of my early com-
panion and best earthly friend, were the prizes for which I
toiled and sacrificed, and -not for college 6clat. This is the
first time since my return I have had the courage to talk
freely to you. I had been guilty of a most pernicious habit,
had placed such a mountain of sin between us by yielding to
a temptation which twelve months ago would have been no
temptation at all, and which had been made so by mere in-
dulgence, that II could not, did not dare approach you upon
the familiar, easy footing I should otherwise have done. Like
a brother, as I have always felt myself, I should at our first
meeting have thrown my arms around you, and wept as at
our parting; but stained with unforgiven, unconfessed sin,
as II was, I could not embrace one so stainless as I knew you
to be. I have fully confessed: am I fully forgiven ?"
"You are, most freely and fully."
"And now, dear Agnes, that I am forgiven, tell me how
far have I fallen below your standard ?"
"Not a cubit; on the contrary, in all things of which I
am capable of judging, you have improved beyond my ex-
pectations, and they were high. I do not say this to flatter
you, but, as you seem to court and value my good opinion, to
let you know how much you have to sustain."
"Be it twice its measure, I should reach its last inch."
"Bravely said; but you will find it no holiday-task to ex-
ecute. I am not ambitious for myself: like Martha's sister, I
choose the humble or 'good part'-it best fits a woman; but
for you I am ambitious. Have you ever seen the eagle upon
its upward wing? I would have the man who has my love
and confidence as far above the common vulgar rabble as the
eagle is above the unwieldy bird that saps its lazy wings
under him."
"I am proud to hear you speak so. My ambition, like the

I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

231

eagle, has built high its eyrie, and, if health and frame hold
ut, II will reach it; and thither will I bear you, if you will
t ust my pinion."
"Think not of me. The bird flies highest and fastest
ith fulLfledged and unencumbered wing."
"But the rock where I would build my eyrie-.to continue
t e figure-will be bleak and barren, if you do not share it ~
th me; and, while in that proud solitude I might bear the
weight of the world's applause, another might possess the
heart and hand Ii desire to be all my own. I would have
your love, Agnes; I would buy it at any price, or win it at
any hazard: without it, I would not give the breath that
stains the glass one looks in for all the applause and empty
honors of the world."
"Care not, Robert, for the world's applause; think not of
it; despise it as I do. I love you, with all my heart I love
you; but I would be proud of you! You need not fear the
loss of my love, so long as you square your lift by virtue's
rules. Be true to virtue, and, though you should be over-
taken by temptation, and reel like a drunken man, and lip
with him in the ditch, I could still love you; but be false to
that, and were you as proud and high in the world's esteem
as the bloated politician and world-renowned orator, at whose
heels the rabble hoot and cast up their hats, and were you,
like him, a defamer of God and a scoffer at morals, I would
spurn you as I would a reptile from a flower-vase. Fear not
the loss of my love, but strive to deserve."
"I will, and have! And I thank you that it is unmixed
with worldly considerations. If my aspirations do not deceive~
me, I shall strive to climb a steep so high in virtue, truth,
and worth, that the breath of the multit~ide cannot reach it:
a point from which, in a moral spnse, the successful place-
Dover's clifl, when 'its high and bending head looks fearfully
hunter will look as small as he who gathers pebbles under
A


2~2         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
in the confined deep.' Facere et merere-To do and deserve
-was my motto in college; and it often consoled me for the
failure to get what II thought were my deserts. The same
shall be my motto in life. By assuring me, dear Agnes, that
you love me, you have made me happy 'beyond all that the min-
strel hath told;' and will you not complete my happiness by
giving me your hand, and uniting your destiny with mine ?"
"Not now. You do not need my hand: it will but stay
you in your path to future worth; and as to our destinies,
they are already united, and nothing but vice can disunite
them. You ought not, and IL do not wish to marry now.
We can love eaoh'other just as well without, and IL prefer it
thus. You do not know how dear it is to think of and love
you as you are. Let it remain so, and if any thing should
chance that would make it proper that our relations to each
other should be chaiiged, either from sickness, separation, loss
of friends, or any of the thousand contingencies of life, seek
me, and ask my hand, and, with my parents' consent, I will
go with you to the altar."
The look of trust and happiness with which she said this
were so naive and touching, as to deter him, ardent as were
his feelings at the moment, from persuading her to decide
diffei~ently. He walked some steps in thought; then said:
"Perhaps you are right. I am not very impulsive nor im-
patient, nor am I jealous. I do pot know what it is to be
jealous. I also have much to do, and to love and hope with
the consciousness of being loved is just as sweet to me as to
you. When a child~, I loved my mother, 0 how dearly! and
when I lost her, you came in to fill the place in my heart.
Others I have esteemed, venerated some; but you two are
the only ones I have ever loved, and to me it is enough: I
have no occasion to think of or lo~e another; hence you may
know how enth~ely my heart and thoughts are yours."
"With but few exceptions, my situation is like yours. I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                233
.lovcd sweet Alice beyond what I can tell, as I do also the
Hermit and Mrs. St. Cloud. I also esteem and sympathize
with Mr. Va~ighan. Beyond these and my home-circle, my
thoughts and feelings have never gone; and the attentions
which society forces upon me are irksome rather than' agree-
able."
"I am glad it is so: not that II care that others should
engage your attention, but because I have the most supreme
contempt for most of the great fashionable hive that swarm
around you. I owe much to your parents: they have both been
kind to me, and your good and true mother has been a second
mother to me; and as for the Hermit, Ii have for him a feel-
of the highest and strongest reverence- it amounts
almost to awe; and with Vaughan and Mrs. St. Cloud I also
deeply sympathize. Miss Alice I barely knew: we met as
children years ago, and the memory of her comes back like
a ray of sunshine. You were fortunate in your school com-
panion; much more so than I. We both chanced to meet a
iBluff City schoolmate at college, but ~whaV a contrast! You
can think of yours, though lost to earth, with pleasure. I
can think of mine, alas! only with shame."
"Yes, poor James! And I understand he is about marry-
ing."
"Indeed! To whom ?"
"To the youngest daughter of Mr. Piper, called Pet, I
believe; and I understand she is a very worthy young lady,
though somewhat vain and foolish."
"Poor girl! What a fate awaits her! Her father ought
to interpose and save her."
"It is a match of his making, I understand, He is more
foolish than his daughter, and has been trying for a long time
to get 'into society,' as some weak-minded people call the
foppery of the world; and he is distressed to death that a


234

rt~AYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

place has not been assigned him in fashion's temple, and his
four daughters long since married."
"Are the young ladies defi~icnt ?"
"Not at all, so far as Ii know. They do not make a very
good appearance out, but that, I imagine, is more owing to
the fact of their having seen so little of society than to ~ny
defects of their own. And Mr. Piper is said to be too penu-
rious to make them presentable ~in society, and then frets him-
self and them out of all patience beca~ise they are not leaders
of ton."
"A strange weakness in a parent! It has always seemed
to me that nothing could well pain a father'~ heart more than
to see his daughter the vain and trifling kader of a v in and
trifling throng. I should think a parent would pr for his
child to be the flower that opens its petals to the mo ubeam,
and closes them in the sunlight, rather than the flami g sun-
flower, seeking the broadest sunlight to display its vulgar
charms."
Very true, but weak people do weak things. All leaders.
of fashion must, of necessity, be weak, or they would not
seek to lead the giddy train. It charms only those who are
incapable of appreciating the higher aims and destiny of
woman; and a fictitious estimate, I suppose, is placed upon
fashionable society by those who~ by birth, habits, or poverty,
are excluded from it; and there are many who, like Mr
Piper, regard it as the grand climax of a woman's life."
"A most reprehensible weakness, surely. But if stingi-
ness is his only fault, his daughters ought not to suffer doubly
on that account, both in their social status and wardrobe."
"That is enough fo~r fashionable society, but it is not all
which Madam Rumor imputes to Mr. Piper in this instance.
But I know very little of the family. I have met the young
ladies sometimes and tried to approach them, but a sort of

(A
U

PLAYJNO FOR AMUSEMENT.     235

mauvaise honte has always kept them at a distance. But,
changing the subject-iRobert, you have not told me yet any
thing of your travels, or your enjoyments in Washington.
You know I saw little of the world while at school, and since
my return have not yet received my own consent to travel,
much as Ii know II should enjoy it."
"I do not know that i[ could interest you much with the
sights and wonders I saw in our Capital. Indeed, the plea-
sure one receives there is 'more in the association of ideas
than in what is really seen or heard. When in the Senate-
Chamber, my mind went back to the great and illustrious
men whose voices once entranced the crowd of eager listeners
~n that immense dome, but who now sleep with their fathers.
Clay, Webster, Jackson, and Calhoun-where arc they now?
Gone! 'And the places which knew them oi~ce sh~dl know
them no more.' There are many bold spirits, many splendid
orators and noble statesmen there still, and among them all
none take a higher position than our, own honorable Senator.
His character, whether in private life, on the field of battle,
or in the halls of Congress, is ever the same-the same in-
corruptible man-true to his country as the needle is to the
north star. Politics, whilst they have natui~ally roused the
elements of his clear, thinking mind, and called into action
his best talents, have had no power over his moral character,
and he towers high above all those vices which are so allur-
ing to many of our representatives. ~Were I a politician,
Agnes, he should be my inodel.'~
By this time they had reached th&amp; more thickly settled
part of town, and their conversation was interrupted by the
friendly greetings of their acquaintances, who were walking,
like themselves, taking advantage of the beautiful evening
to exercise in open air. Hamilton and Agnes were in no
nThod to enjoy the mirth of the ~ay bevy of girls and young


PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     237

236         PLAYING   rou AM1J~iivLi~i'T.
gentlemen who were walking the streets, making music with
their cheerful laugh and lively jests; and turning as soon
as they could into a more retired street, reached home in
silence.
CHAPTIll~ XXVII.
"Marriage is a matter of more worth
Than to be dealt in by attorneyship."
SHARSPEARn.
'AGNES had heard correctly: James Blunt was engage
be married to "Pet." Friend Piper's experiment of
band-hunting for his daughters in the swamps of Louis
proved a failure, and he frefted more than ever, He w
not admit, even to himself, that he was in any manne
fault. He had attributed their failure' to get husband
every variety of cause, and at last saddled it upon their
gion; and it was constantly introduced as a s~ibject of
dressing comment to all. He insisted that unless I
changed their religion t~iiey would never get married in
world; that nobody worth having attended their church,
that the respectable families who did attend paid no atten
to them; that all the marrying young men attended o
churches. Betsy had borne the thing as long as her slei
stock of patience could stand it, and put in:
"It seems that you were fool enough to marry witi
reference to your wife's religion, and all the fools are
dead yet."
"Nobody will be fool enongli to marry these girls
their old - fashioned religion, whether they are all dea
not."
"Why, Pa," modestly put in one of the older ye
ladies, "religion i5 worth more to me than a husband;

:d to
hus-
iana
ould
r at
S to
reli-
dis-
~hey
the~
and
tion
ther
iout
not
~vith
I or
ung
a

-as-m a e n 4 T 0"Fem


238      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

man who would refuse me on account of my religion, I would
~ot like to marry: I should not be happy with such a man;
and, moreover, I do not want to marry."
"Don't tell me that, my daughter! don~t tell me that!
You do want to marry, and if you don't, I want you to; but
I am not likely to have my wants gratified soon. When you
go to church they do not notice you, and 'begrudge you the
seat you sit on."
"If you'd pay for it," croaked in Betsy's voice, "they
would n't begrudge it, II reckon. Wh~it do you talk to the
girls about their religion for? It never cost you any thing.,
How much, did ever you give to the Church? You can say,
as the old man did when the preacher congratulate~t every-
body upon the cheapness of the gospel, 'Thank the Lord, it
never cost me a dime }' and I can say to you, as the preacher
said, 'Lord have mercy on your stingy soul!' You've
swopped and stopped until there are no more swops left,
and now you want to swop off our religion; if you'd swop
and get religion, it would be better for you."
Pet, seeing the breath thus knocked out of Piper, and
anxious for a husband, and indifferent upon the subject of
religion, approached her father and said:
"Pa, if you will get me some fashionable dresses, I will
go wherever you want me, and will attend all the fashionable
churches."
"I'll do it, my daughter. I am glad I 'ye got one daughter
left. You shall have whatever you want, and by the time
you are married and settled off and at liberty to attend what
church you please, the other girls will wish they had fol-
lowed my advice.~~
Pet was accordingly rigged out in dresses to her taste,
which, unschooled as it was, was none the best. But piqued
as Piper was, lie, for the first time in his life, loosed hi~
purse-strings, and Pet was richly if not tastily supplied.

Thus fitted, she started church-going for a husband. She
attended first one and the other, as it was the more fashion-
able or popular. When it was thought too common to attend
church, or she had nothing new enough to attract attention,
she remained at home and read novels. The hunt was kept
up for some- time with rather a discouraging prospect, and
Piper's pride alone prevented hum from cancelling the bar-
gain. At last Pet's flaunting apparel and impertinent man-
ners attracted the attention of James Blunt, and, without an
introduction, he accompanied her home. Piper was trium-
pliant! His plan had succeeded: one of the ton, one of the
fashionable, had walked home with Pet, had sat down in his
parlor, and promised to call again! It was glory enough for
one, day. Pet never would have captivated a young man in
the very heart of "society" if she had listened to her mother
and older sisters; he always knew he was right; and Betsy
and the other girls might be assured if they continued to
attend that old- fashioned and unpopular church, the girls
would never marry in th~ world. Betsy stood it as long as
she could, for she rather thought Piper had the better~ of it,
as the Blunts were, "sure enough," in "society ;" but Piper
carried his triumph too far, and Betsy let drive at him:
"James Blunt! who is he? If she will go out here to the
penitentiary, she can catch plenty of beaux just as good,
where he would be if he had his dues.",
It was like the explosion of a torpedo, and had a stunning
effect upon Piper, and if the aim had been less dead, and
delayed until Piper's elation was over, it would have knocked
James Blunt out of the head of both Piper and Pet. But to
explode it in his face in this savage manner in the hour of
his triumph, was more than Piper's human nature could stand,
and he retorted:
"It is a calumny trumped up because you and the girls
are jealous of his attentions to Pet. You 'ye picked it up

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     239

239

238


240      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     241

from persons beneath him, who have started it against, him
because he refused to notice them."
"Well, go ahead. If you want a thief; and a knock-kneed,
bandy-shank gumpy, who can set his hat on one side of his
cymling head and support a walking-switch, and Pet wants
such a husband, I'm sure II don't care.
This was too much for Piper, and he congratulated Pet on
her success, and left the house.
Before his return, he learned that Miss Blunt (an aunt of
James) 1~ad made inquiries of him as to th~ name and "quality"
of the y~ung lady he had attended from church, and learning
that she was a daughter of Mr. Piper, she forbade him, under
pain of her displeasure, to cultivate the acquaintance further.
This enraged Piper, and he galloped home to communicate it
to Betsy, which he did in a fury, and it put Betsy i1~ a fury;
but their fury this time was not directed at each o ~her, but
directed in a broadside at his aunt. Betsy's ire had abated
during Piper's absence, and she was a little alarmed at the
possible consequences of her severity. She was apprehen-
sive that she had taken a step which might drive Piper and
Pet to do a very foolish and ruinous thing. The idea of
James Blunt becoming a memberr of the family, with so dis-
graceful a report unexplained against him, alarmed her, and,
to avert it, she had determined as soon as Piper returned to
remonstrate more rationally with him. Piper also rode about
on the stool of repentance, and Betsy's picture of James Blunt
haunted him, and he had about made up his mind that Pet
could put a feather in her cap by rejecting young Blunt.
The news of Miss Blunt's opposition changed entirely the
current of his thoughts, and its effect was the same upon
Betsy. Her pride was cut, and, in her resentment of the
affront offered her by the aunt, she forgot the moral and
personal defects of the nephew, and determined, in revenge
for the wrong, to ei~csurage the attentions of James to her

daughter. lie was used to setting at naught his aunt's com-
mands-his father never gave any, except in a pet.-.--and took
cvery~ opportunity to extend his acquaintance with Pet. The
more his aunt scolded, the greater was his determination to
prosecute his suit. Although Betsy often ridiculed the young
man until Pet was thoroughly ashamed of her choice, she
never again alluded to the cause of his college expulsion.
James soon proposed to Pet, and was accepted. He did not
think jt worth while speaking to Piper on-the subject, which
threatened to defeat all Piper's well-conned speech, which he
had kept cut and dried for such an occasion, since the return
of his daughters from school, som~ five years or more. The
occasion for delivering it might never come again, as Pet's
success thus far had had no effect upon "the girls," and they
continued as before to attend the same old-fashioned church.
* lie was determined to take advantage of the present oppor-
tunity, and hot to trust to the remote chances ~f either of the
other three "girls" getting married, to deliver himself; so
he concluded as James would not speak to him, he could at
least speak to Jame4 An opportunity was not long in pre-
senting itself. Gilpin was galloping glibly along, when Piper
noticed James crossing the street, and called to him:
"llalloo, James-~ah-Mr. Blunt. How are you ?"
"Good morning, Mr. Piper ;" and stopped and looked at
him.
"Needn't stop-nothing particular to say-I can walk
along and lead my horse." He dismounted, and putting the
bridle over his arm, walked along near the pavement. James
Was indifferent, and Piper was frisky. Now that he had
made the occasion, and his auditor was before him, and his
speech well committed, he was at a loss to know how to be-
gin. He would clear his throat, and edge along up to James
in a knowing, confidential sort of way, intended to be as
father-in-law-ish as he knew how to make it; but James


242       PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.                                         PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.           243

either did not or would not understand him, and neither by
word nor manner would he give occasion for the speech.
They were approaching the business part of the town, and
Piper seeing that a beginning had to be made or the oppor-
tunity would slip by, squared himself before James, and with
a patronizing smile on his face, said:
"James, my daughter has just mentioned to me your wish
to~a-you-r-to-a~your wish-a-you-r-to marry my
daughter. Girls I suppose must marry, but her request was
so sudden-Il do not know how we can spare her; it will not
be home without her. She is the centre of our love-bound
circle. 11cr "
"Hold on there, Bill," said James, calling to a young idle
companion of his, passing on the opposite side of the street;
"I hold you bound for that treat. Come, Mr. Piper, wont
you join me in a glass at Bill's expense? He owes me a
treat." Saying which he took Bill's arm, who had crossed
the street to him, and went laughing off.
Piper was bursting with rage, and would have kicked his
prospective son-in-law, but for the fear of thereby overturning
his husband-built castle. He could easily have chosen a son-
in-law he liked better, but barring the man, h~ regarded the
match ~s a step up in life-au introduction of himself:, Bet-
sy, and "the girls" into society, and the sure means of mar-
rying off his other daughters. This thought saved James
from a sound thrashing for his rudeness-a worse one than
his weak-minded, fashion.worshipping aunt ever gave him.
Such a contingency never occurred to him as he thanked his
companion for coming along so opportunely, and saving him
from a "great bore."
Piper made what he considered great preparations for the
wedding, and issued a large number of tickets of invitation.
The house was a jam, the supper poor, and the music her-
rible, but what cared he for this? for was he not "in so-

ciety ?" or, rather, was not "society," or the people he called
"society," in his house?
Miss Blunt, when the probabilities of the wedding Were
first mentioned to her, made quite a fume about it, but, when
she saw it was inevitable, yielded, and, for fear of having her
sort lost to "society," used all her efforts to have as much of
"society" attend the wedding as she could influence. When
Piper saw all the fine folks and fine feathers in his house, he
congratulated himself again and again upon his forbearance
in not stamping his son-in-law in the street for cutting short
the speech from which he had just brushed the dust of five
years. Betsy, however, was not so well satisfied. She had
gained her end-had shown Miss Blunt that her child was
equal to hers-but now that it was over, her conscience was
not easy; she questioned if she had not paid more for the
triumph than it was worth. She had given her child to a
man who, whatever might be her virtues or her faults, was
incapable of appreciating the one, or of properly correcting
the other. Piper had sacrificed his daughter to his ambition
for social station; she to gratify her revenge. So, altogether~,
Betsy Went to bed with a heavy heart that night.

t


244      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                                      PLAYING FOR AMU5EM1~NT~        245

CHAPTER XXVIII.
"Perseverance is a Roman virtue
That wins each godlike act, and plucks success
E'eu from the spear-proof crest of rugged danger."
LIKE all young professional men, Robert Hamilton had to
sit many a long day through, waiting for clients that would
not come; but, unlike many, he did not go out to the grog-
shops and other disreputable places of public resort to find
them. He fortunately had the patience and the means to
wait, and employed his time in perfecting himself in his pro-
fession; and his old motto, Fctcere e~ merere, came to help
relieve the tedious hours of study.
lit has been the curse of American genius that the pride
and ambition of parents. have undertaken too often to force
it into uncongenial and dist~isteful channels. There are no
privileged classes, and the professions of law and physic con-
stitute, as far as republicanism and the desire of office which
pervades all classes will permit, the aristocracy of the coun-
try. Hence, those who are able to give their children a
liberal education, force them from pride into one or other of
these professions, and in this way they are made objects of
ambition with all classes. Fathers therefore often choose for
the child with reference only to his own wish, and without
regard to the fitness of his son forth profession, or the pro-
fession for the child; in which case it is merb chance if the

244

whole thing does not prove a lamentable failure. The pro-
fession~ are of course overrun, and confer neither profit nor
honor upon any save the very skilful and experienced, or
the intriguing and unscrupulous. A select few only can rise
to distinction, and the odds are so great in favor of obscurity,
that fathers should be reluctant to have their sons enter the
list. They should also understand that the most helpless of
all the human species is a young collegiate with his parch-
ment in his portmanteau, and nothing in his pocket, an&amp; no-
thing to do that will put any thing there. He can turn his
hand to nothing to supply even his commonest wants. Well
may such an one, if he has any pride of character, curse the
pride of the parent whose over-fond partiality made him a
professional man rather than have him taught some of the
plainer and more practical employment of life, which, though
less imposing, and less "honorable" in the estimation of a
false-judging world, are far surer roads to wealth and an
honorable independence. In the latter event, instead of
shunning the curious and compassionating eye of his acquaint-
ances, he would have moved among his fellows with the proud
consciousness of a self-sustaining man. Parents who have
never tried it, think a book and an ink-horn a second
Aladdin's lamp; but the victim of their misjudging pride too
often sits from day to day, from week to week, and month to ~
month, and, as often happens, from year to year, without any
thing to do, until his patience and substance are both ex-
hausted, and, to blunt the edge of mortification, he seeks the
bowl or the dissipation of the gambling-room, and is ruined.
Formerly there was more excuse for this parental pride and
folly than now, for one might well enough be reluctant to en-
gage in mechanical pursuits where muscle alone could win.
But this is not the case now; the field of enterprise in the
mechanic arts is much enlarged by recent improvements and
discoveries, and offers as full a reward to talent as to muscle.

245


246      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

The mental may successfully dispute the goal with the phy-
sical.
And here it may not be improper to suggest, that these
improvements and changes in the mechanic arts advise a
change in~ the edUcation of -youth, and an abolition of much
of the old useless college routine. Of what use is Latin,
Greek, and Hebrew, or any other obsolete language, to the
millions who waste time in their acquisition? How many of
all those who have travellQd the whole curriculum of a college
course ever put their knowledge of these languages to any
practical use? Not one in a thousand. The good plain
common sense of the country is at war with it; so much so,
that if a man attempts to make a display of his accomplish-
ments in this particular, he s laughed at for his pains. There
were, perhaps, good reasons for the original introduction of
this system of education, b t the reasons have ceased, and,
according to a universally received maxim of the common
law, the reason ceasing, the ule itself should cease. In the
early history of jurisprude ce, as a badge of English ser-
vittide, the laws were in La in, and no one could be a prac-
ticing lawyer without thoroughly understanding that language.
Such, however, is not now the case. The study of the Greek
and Hebrew~was made necessary for a different, but equally
good reason. The Scriptures were written in those languages,
and, for several years after the decline of letters on the con-
tinent of Europe, the clergy absorbed all the learning of the
times, or mainly so. Books were scarce, even loi~g after the
discovery of the art of printing; and to be a good theologiai~,
a thorough knowledge of Latin, d-reek, and Hebrew was re-
quisite. The disputations of the Schoohnen addcd zeal to thc
study of these languages. The theological field swarmed with
disputants of every nation and grade, who, as a learned law
commentator justly 'remarks, "perplexed all theology with
their scholastic disquisitions, and bewildered philosophy in

the mazes of metaphysical jargon." This was especially so
during the fierce disputes occasioned by the Reformation.
The good and the bad, the learned and the unlearned, were
alike seized with the ambition of being antiquarians, and
Schoolmen were seen in flocks traversing the face of Europe
in search of musty manuscripts hoarded in the libraries of
princes or monasteries, with the desire of wresting something
from the ancient cobwebs that would enable them to found a
sect and immortalize their names. The offices of the Church,
tod; just anterior and subsequent to the Reformation, were
sought by men of wealth and influence as portions for younger
sons. These causes all combined to make a knowledge of
these languages a necessary part of a gentleman's education.
But none of them now exist; they have ceased, and why
should not the practice founded on them cease also.? Our
laws are written in our own language, and need not the aid
of a foreign tongue to enable the student to properly under-
stand and practice them. The Bible too is in the lap of all
the mothers 6f the land, and commentaries enough in English
within reach, if read, to make it as obscure and difficult to
be understood as if it had never been 'translated from the
Greek or the old Vulgate. If, therefore, this useless relic
of a semi-barbarous age should be supplantedby a course of
practi&amp;d study in Mechanics, Chemistry, Agriculture, etc., the
Alma Mater, instead of feasting the student upon Dead-Sea
apples, without nutAtion, would perform the part of the
~nagician, and give him a ring and lamp, which would require
but to be rubbed to' evoke a good 'genie, ready to supply all his
wants. Nor need any one fear loss of caste by thus preparing
for the active duties of life. There is no privileged class
here to mark the man of toil, and where all are equal the
majority rule, and the idle few would be the exclusives, and,
when they should have occasion to test their superiority,
would find themselves far under the ban of public opinion.

PLAYING roa AMUSEMENT.    247

246

247


248      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                               PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.      249

Elsewhere it is not the case. It is especially not the case in
the country whence we have borrowed our college routine.
Here a young man may choose his profession to suit his in-
clination, and not to suit the pride of his family. And if
parents would encourage thi~ child so to choose, and not force
his inclination and talent into an unnatural channel, fewer
parents would be disappointed at the want of success of their
favorite sons.
None of the evils, however, which attend the forced adoption
of a profession to gratify the whim of a parent, or the adop-
tion of one as a matter of respectability, as one puts on holiday
clothes, were to be apprehended in young Hamilton'~ case;
his profession was a matter of &amp;hoice, and selected as a matter
of business, and with thc resolution of following it as a
business pursuit. lie therefore suffered none of the disap-
pointinents and heartaches which have so often driven young
men from their books to liquor and dice; or, if they escape
these, indilce a moroseness and hardness of disposition which
no after success 3ver softens. With Hamilton, as with other
young men, Courts came and went, but clients did not; but he
was neither discouraged nor impatient, but toiled on. The
third session of the Court in his district left him a~ it found
him-a briefless lawyer.

CHAPTER XXIX
"0 Mischief! thou art swift
To enter the thoughts of desperate rne~i!
~HAKSPEAR1~.
JUST before the spring session of the Court, the jf'ourth
after Hamilton had taken an office and advertised for busi-
ness, Col. Isaacs, a man of standing and influence, a friend
of Clarkson, and one who played with him for amusement,
and bet to count the game, and drank for good cheer, got
into a "spree." It is possible, and only possible, that this
book may fall into the hands of some one who does not know
what a "spree" is. It is when a man gets drunk and furious,
curses every thing and everybody, whoops and halloos through
the streets, insults respectable, quiet people, flourishes a pistol
and bowie-knife, and frightens everybody; seizes hold of the
passer-by, and forces him to take a drink with him, and, if he
refuses, insults and denounces him; mounts upon the counter,
and kicks off decanters and glasses, an defaces pictures;
jumps upon somebody's horse, and gallops over people who
cannot run fast enough to get out of the way; rides into a
group, and yells like a savage; cocks his pistol in a crowd,
and, flourishing it around, swears he is the greatest man in
the country, and can whip everybody, and cracks away at all
creation in general; and as everybody has not the activity to
dodge a bullet, somebody gets shot, and everybody except
the man who is shot says that the shooter was on a "spree"
-was gentlemanly drunk-and accidentally shot somebody;

Li

R

248

249


250      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.         251.

and everybody is very sorry for th&amp; shooter, that such a sad
accident should have befallen him; as the poor fellow will
feel very bad about it when he gets sober; and wh~ some-
body, if he is not "killed dead," or, if he is, when his friends
go among the leading lawyers hunting counsel to prosecute,
they are told that lawyers dislike to prosecute, especially for
murder, and, in no ease without a double fee. Such is a
'.' spree," or was, some few years since. Those who lived in
Mississippi, especially in Bluff City, in the bank and shin-
plaster times, when leading men lit their cigars with bank..
notes, know something' about a "spree." A man. was just
no man at all, who could not take a "spree ;" and had as
little chance of getting into bank society as a man would of
'getting into that of Clarkson, Floyd, Blunt, and others, who
could not "take a hand," or a glass of liquor. "Sprees"
were respectable then, and peo Clarkson's day would
say of them:. "Those were gI 'ions times ;" just as thipse
who escaped the neck-pulling an embowelling of Elizabeth's
reign, c~dled it "The glorious days of good Queen Bess ;" or
the Latin and Grecian poets call the days when people could
neithe~~ read nor write, and lived in rude tents and minded
sheep, as "the golden age."
When sprecing was an expensive luxury, and confined to
the rich, it retained its respectability; but when the common
folk got at it, and reduced the price of a "good glorious
bust," as a "spree" was sometimes improperly called, from
one thousand to one hundred dollars, and from that to fifty,
and from shooting a man, and having the spree's'" neck
broke by a fall from a wild horse, to a bunged-up eye by a
fisticuffs, or a broken nose by a fall upon a slippery pavement,
it lost much of its charm and respectability; and an
olJ-fashioned, gentlemanly "spree" had become somewhat
rare. But Col. Isaacs was one of the old regime, a remnant
of "those glorious times ;" and, true to old habit, would oc-

F

occasionally get on a "spree," if for nothing more, just to let
the race of church-going greenhorns, who had taken the
places made vacant by "sprees" and fast living, see what a
"'spree" was. Accordingly, after playing nearly all Satur-
day night with Col. Clarkson, Dr. Floyd, Blunt, and Capt.
Orr, on Sunday morning he got upon a grand "spree,"
breaking glasses, and knocking the billiard balls about; seiz-
ing hold of the players, and forcing them to the counter with
him to drink; pocketing the balls, and swearing they should
not play until they repeated the drink; frightened half the
good people of town out of their wits; chased a hotel-keeper,
who' was anxious to keep order in his house, all over the
tavern with a pistol and bowic-knife, and, failing to catch
him, fired a ball or two i through the door of the room into
which he locked himself; ordered a negro-boy to break open
the door, and upon the negro's begging to be excused, pr~-
sented a cocked pistol at his head to frio'hten him into obedi-
ence, which, by either design or accident, ~vent off, shooting
the negro through the head, killing him instantly. The
great body of the people, who knew but little about "sprees,"
and the impunity awarded them, were outraged, and de-
nounced the thing as a cold-blooded murder; but Col. Clark-
son, Floyd, Blunt, and the other members of the playing
clubs, who made or controlled' public opinion, "deeply de-
plored the sad, accident," and were very sorry on Tsaacs'
account, who, "when sober, Was a perfect gentleman."
The negro was a valuable one, and Jsaacs found the price
of the "spree" fully up to the old respectable standard, and
something 1) eyond; and he was not in a situation to meet the
just demand of the master of the murdered negro for his
value-seventeen hundred dollars--.and 'pay the damage done
to the property of the hotel ~nd that of the grocery-keeper.
There was danger, unless he satisfied the claim of' th~ master,
that some hungry attorney, for half the price of the negro,

hi


252       PLAYING    FOR AMUSEMENT.
might undertake to prosecute. The possibility that one
would volunteer to vindicate the violated law and an out-
raged public, never entered his mind: no one would be so
unprincipled as to do so just and righteous a thing. The
master was willing to tiike the acceptance of Col. Clarkson
upon short time for the value 6f the negro; and Jsaacs con-
sented to give it upon the condition that there should be no
prosecution, to which, of course, the master assented. Col.
Clarkson disliked to give the use of his name for such a pur-
pose; bu~ to refuse it under such circumstances would have
given mortal offence, and Jsaa~s was not a man to offend with
impunity. He therefore gave the acceptance; and after-
wards, as he feared when he gave it, had it to pay.
The affair was brought before the grand jury, and they
could not do otherwise than find a "true bill ;" but they and
everybody else, Jsaacs included, regarded it as a mere formal
thing.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     253

CHAPTER XXX.
"He is dead;
Not by the public minister of justice,
Nor 14 a hired knife; but that self hand
Which writ his honor in the acts it did,
Hath, with the courage which the heart did lend it,
Spitted the heart."
SHARSPEARE.
ON the morning when the case of "The State vs. Jsaacs"
was set for trial, the defendant walked with great unconcern
into the Court-room, and his bloody hand was taken by all
the rno~t respectable and influential persons present, officials
and all, Judge, Clerk, and Sh~riff. He stepped upon the
Judge's stand and passed the ~mpliments of the day with
him, and a pleasant joke whit~4i brought a smile to the
Judge's face; all of which was seen by the special venire
summoned upon the case-a fac-simile of the one before in-
troduced to the reader. File passed among the venire, gra-
ciously condescending to shake hands with each, particularly
with those whose names he had marked upon the copy fur-
nished him by the Sheriff, as require~by law, for his attor-
neys to select as jurors. Niost of the leading menibers of the
bar were engaged for the defence,
When the case was called, the District Attorney sat with

A

58


Ix

~54

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

b6th knees against the desk before him, whittling a pi&amp;e of
cypress split from the desk, his lap full of shavings. The
Court asks:
"Gentlemen, are you ready in this case
"The State is ready, T believe. What case is it, your
Honor ?" said the District Attorney, rising and brushing the
whittling from his lap, looking the very personification of
indifference.
"No. -. The State vs. Tsaacs."
"Let me see the papers. Mr. Sheriff, are the witnesses
in this case all here ?"
"I do not know, I am sure."
"Call them."
"If you will let me know who they are, I will."
"These names? Hold on; let me see; who are they ?"
Scratches first his head and then in the pile of papers before
him; picks up one and puts it down, picks up another and
puts it down, moves a book or two, and turns to the counsel
on the other side and asks:
"Gentlemen, have you got the subpoenas in this case
"We have our own, not yours. What's that you have in
your hand? isn't that it ?"
"0 yes! here it is. Call the witnesses, Mr. Sheriff:" hands
him the subpoena, and sits down to whit~lin~
The Sheriff calls the witnesses; a few answer, but the most
important ones do not. He returns the subpoena, and lays it
down before the Attorney, who continues to whittle away.
The Court grows impatient, and asks:
"Mr. Attorney, are you ready to try this case
c~W~hat case, your Honor ?"
"The ease I have just called, The State vs. Jsaacs."
"0-~-~ah~--Mr. Sheriff, call the witnesses in this case."
"I have just called them."
"Did they answer

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

255

"Some did and some didn't."
"Did. Mr. - and - answer
"No, sir."
"Call them again.
The Sheriff calls again, but no answer.
"We are ready for the State, if your Honor please."
"Gentlemen, are you ready for the defence ?"
They give a quick glance, to be sure that no counsel is en-
gaged for the prosecution, and with a confident look and tone
promptly answer:
"We are ready, if your Honor please," emphasizing the
"we," as if they, who had such a good case, were of course
ready and anxious for a trial; and it was for the State, with
its bad cause, to come halting to trial.
All this had its effect upon the venire, who were curious
spectators of the whole.
"Mr. Sheriffs call over the venire," ordered the Court.
"J~ames Brady !"
"Come round and be sworn, Mr. Brady."
He is sworn to answer questions "of and touching his
qualifications as a juror," when-
"Have you formed or expressed an opinion of the guilt or
innocence of the accused, Mr. Brady ?" is asked in th6 full,
musical voice of Hamilton.
Its unexpectedness astonished the whole mass of lookers-
on, and all pushed forward to see who was engaged for the
prosecution, drowning by the noise every thing else.
"Silence !" roared out the Sheriff.
"Keep silence in Court, Mr. Sheriff; and report those who
make a noise."
None were so much electrified as the counsel for the de-
fence. When glancing around prel~aratory to announcing
themselves ready, they noth~ed Hamilton sitting near the
District Attorney, but never suspected his being engage~l in

IA


250         PLAYING F ft AMUSEMENT.
the cause; no look or action of his betrayed any such thing;
and if they had suspected it, they would hardly have thought
a young briefless attorney like him in the way; but there
was something in his manner, and in his heavy voice, that
admonished them "to i~ake care." They therefore asked
him:
"Are you engaged for the defence, Mr. hamilton ?"
"I am."
"Who employed you ?"
"You have no right to ask."
"Silence, gentlemen I" demanded the Sheriff.
The counsel saw at a glance that there was something solid
and resolute about the young man; that he was something
more than an idle whittler of soft pine and cedar, and likely
to prove a dangerous adversary in a case like the one they
had in charge; and after whispering together for a moment,
they ask:
"Will your Honor excuse us for a moment ?"
"Certainly."
They continue to whisper together; they pull Isaacs into
the circle and whisper. The leading counsel rises and says:
"If your hlonpr please, it has just been suggested that one
of our most important witnesses is absent, and if your Honor
will permit us, we w6uld like to have the witnesses for the
defence called. Mr. Sheriff, will you call the witnesses for
the defence ?"
The Sheriff goes to the window and calls.
"Did Mr. Flint answer
"He did not."
"If your Honor please, this is a very important witness
for the defence, by far the most important witness in the
cause, and the only man who witnessed the unfortunate affair
who can give an unbiased statement of it. We were informed,
when we announced ourselves as ready, that he wa~ in Court,

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     257

or we would not have so answered. lit is impossible, if your
~Honor please, for us to go safely to trial without this witness,
and if your Honor will allow us at this stage of the proceed-
ings, we will prepare an affidavit for a continuance. I know
it is a little informal, but in a case of this magnitude, where
the life of a human creature, one of our most respectable and
est citizens, is at stake, mere formalities should not deprive
s of a full and fair defence."'
"Ii cannot grant it unless counsel on the other side consent.
Mr. District Attorney, are you willing that the case shall be
withdrawn from the jury, and leave be granted to the defence
to make an affidavit for a continuance ?"
"Sir ?" waking up from his whittling.
"Are you willing that the defence may make an affidavit
for a continuance ?"
"0, cer-"
"Hold !" said Hamilton. "We are not willing, your
hToi~or."
The counsel make a strong appe~d to him, and relate, loud
enough to be heard by those of the venire who had crowded
around them, what the witness would prove, making out a
clear case of justifiable homicide, and how they were deceived
into announcing themselves ready by assurances that this im-
portant witness was present, and how impossible it was that
the State could suffer by delay, and how a good and innocent
man might suffer by a forced trial.
"I cannot consent," he said, addressing the Court; "blood
has becn spilt in our streets, and though it does not cry for
vengeance, the innocent, and a much-wronged and outraged
community, call aloud upon this Court for protection against
a lawless. drunken brawler."
"Do y6u denounce me as a drunken brawler !" exclaimed
Jsaacs, springing from his seat with a savage, ferocious look
that made all around save Hamilton shrink back chilled. The
9

257


258       ~IAAYING FO1~ AMUSEMENT.

latter looked him. unshrinkingly in the face, and with resolute
clearness said:
"III do. In a drunken brawl you murdered a poor negro,
and you would, if you dared, murder the man who has re-
spect enough for his memory to vindicate it; but when you
do, you will murder a freeman, and not a slave 1"
From the clap and shout that went up from the excited
crowd that pressed hard upon the court-railings, the counsel
for the' defence saw that they had made a mistake in their
effort at side-bar speaking.
While the Sheriff was restoring order, and trying to get the
names of the offenders to report them for a contempt of Court,
the counsel for the defence whispered for a moment to Col.
Clarkson, who took Hamilton to one side and remonstrated
with him.
"I regret, Robert, that your first case in Court should be
to prosecute a man for his life."
"I am only trying to perform my duty as a good citizen,
and to aid in protecting this community against an outlaw."
"Who pays you to do it ?"
"My conscience."
"It is not possible that you are a volunteer in the cause,
Robert? It will ruin you! All the respectable men in town
are in \Isaacs' favor."
"I cannot help that."
"Do you not know that it is unpopular to prosecute, espe-
cially in a murder ease
"II do not seek popularity."
"Are you aware that it is the boast of some of the greatest
lawyers that the country has ever produced, that they never
took a fee to prosecute ?"
"If they had taken as many fees to protect the public
against bad men and to~enforce the law; as they have to de-
fend and turn lo~se criminals and defeat the ends of justice,

I'

PLAYING roa AMUSEMENT.                259
I would never have been called upon to volunteer in prose-
cuting this case."
"Robert, let me persuade you not to volunteer your ser-
vices in this ease."
"II have already done so-I am not willing to withdraw.
Dave was black, it is true, but he was a man, every inch of
him. We were children together, and in childhood sported
upon the same playground, and I have since seen him tried
in all that makes a man a man, and he proved true; and shall
I now stand by and see him shot down by a drunken bully
and bravado, and make no effort to bring the offender to
justice? Besides, I have promised his poor old mother
who nursed inc when a ehild, and who received the last
breath of my sainted mother, to vindicate the memory of her
murdered son, and I cannot forfeit my word."
"Perhaps you are right. Ii applaud your motive and ~cel-
ings, but I[ am sorry you are engaged in the case."
"And I am equally sorry to~ do any thing that you do not
approve.~~
"Come ~entlemen," said the Court, 'ego on with your
ease. Proceed with the juror."
"Mr. Brady, have you formed or expressed an opinion as
to the guilt or innocence of the accused ?"
"I have."
"Have you conversed with any of the witnesses in relation
to the ease
"I have not."
"Have you not formed this opinion you speak of expressly
to disqualify you from serving on this jury, and without' any
real knowledge of the ease ?"
"If your Honor please," began one of the counsel for the
defence, "I object to this mode of interrogating the juror.
This gentleman says he has both formed and expressed an
opinion, and is of course an incompetent juror, and it matters


260

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

I

not for what purpose he may have formed his opinion. Such
questions are but consuming the time of the Court, and I
hope your Honor will put a stop to it."
"I have no wish to ask impertinent questions," said Hamil-
ton, " or to consume unnecessarily the time of the Court, and
I feel assured that your Honor will indulge me in all needful
consumption of time. I am aware, sir, if this man has, as
he thinks; formed an opinion of the guilt or innocence of the
accused, he is an incompetent juror; but Ii wish to ~how if
possible from his answers that he has npt formed an opinion.
A man may learn from rumor that a murder has been com-
conclude that if such be the, case the party
fitted, and                                    ought
to han~ and he might call this an opinion, and in a mo ent
0'
thereafter hear that the killing ~vas in self-defence, an ., as-
sumino' that to                             acquitted,
be true, conclude that he ouo'ht to be
and he might call this an opinion; but I imagine that n&amp;ther
of these is such an opinion as in the law would disqi. alify
him as a juror to try the fact. Neither the one noi the
other, nor a hundred such opinions would influence the mind
of the juror, much less would this be the case if tile opinion
was formed as a mere matter of convenience. The law only
intends that the juror who is to try the fact shall go into the
jury-box free from improper bias. The opinion to disqualify
a man must be of such a nature as to affect his judgment,
and give an undue bias for or against the defendant, and not
a mere supposititious opinion founded upon idle rumor, and
made up as a matter of convenience. Men who are competent
to decide upon a case of this sort, and have the resolution to
decide correctly, without fear, favor, or reward, dislike to
have itto do; and if by forming an imaginary opinion they
can be excused from the service, they will form it, and in this
way help to defeat the ends of justice. The very men w~1lo
undertake to practice this fraud upon the law, and evade tile
performance of their duty, are the ones first to cr~ out at the

F

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

261

inefficiency of the law. If men of talent and education
and virtue were to constitute our juries, vicious men would
be reluctant to conic before them, and the youth of the coun-
try would grow up with an habitual respect for the law and
those who execute it, and its certain execution would be a
sure safeguard against bad men. The law never will be ex-
ecuted if none but the refuse of society si~ upon the jury-.
men who are easily swayed by learned counsel. Such mqn
go to sleep under tim reading of an indictment, and treat with
contempt the instructions of the Court. They are told by
lawyers out of court who cannot be elected to a judgeship,
that tile 'best talent' will not go upon the bench-the salary is
too sinall-can make more at the practice of their profession,
etc., and hence such jurymen conclude that these learned
0'
gentlemen who know so much law that they will not go upon
the bench must of course know more than the' man who does
go omi it, and they therefore listen t&amp; them rather than the
Court. Tile interest of the country demands that men of
sense sit upon juries, and the Court ouo'ht not to excuse any
0
man from this duty for an idle trifling opinion made up to
order. If this gentleman ilas formed an opinion of the guilt
or innocence of Col. Tsaacs, the accused here, in relation to
tile offence of which lie stands charged, he ought not to sit
in tile case, but I hold that it is a positive absurdity to talk
an opinion founded upon nothing. This gentlenian says
lIe has never conversed With any of the witnesses, and of
course knows nothing' of the case; no bias therefore can rest
upon his mind. If it should appear by the answers of the
*juror that he is mistaken, and has not formed an opinion,
hut has manufactured something for the Occasion, which
he offers as an excuse for avoiding the performance of a dis-
agreeable duty, I ask if your ~Ionor will allow him thus' to
impose upon the Court. At any rate, I should like to have
him answer tile question."


262

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

"The habit"-by the Court-" of gentlemen, when sum-
moned to serve on juries of this sort, hunting up material
out of which to manufacture an opinion to excuse them front
the performance of their duty, is a most pernicious one; and
in consequence of it III have been disgusted more than once
upon this circuit, in seeing twelve men, without morals or
brains, chosen to acquit criminals, and not to try them-men
who neither listened to the testimony, nor understood the
law. These counterfeit opinions are far too common, and
the man who offers it for an excuse ought to be exposed;
and though the opinion utay disqualify him, nevertheless the
question in this instance may be asked. Answer the ques-
tion, Mr. Brady."
"Will you put the question again ?"
"Have you not formed this opinion expressly to excuse
you from serving upon this case
"Well, sir, I do not wish to answer that question."
"Answer the question, Mr. Brady, or I shall be under the
painful necessity of sending you to jail."
"W~ell, sir, that had its influence."
"That had its influence, eh? Now, do you know any
thing at all of the facts of this base ?"
"Very little."
"Do yot know any thing ?"
"Very little: I heard that Col. Jsaacs had killed a negro
man."
"And upon that you immediately formed an opinion ?"
"No, sir; not immediately. I thought very little about
it at the time, and might not have thought of it again, if the
Sheriff had not summoned me as a juror."
"Then you formed no opinion until sumnioned on this
venire
"I did not."
"And yet you lm~ve formed an opinion ?"

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                263
"Yes, sir, and expressed it."
"Very well, sir: stand aside."
This severe catechising alarmed a number of others who
stood in a similar position to that of Mr. Brady; and, when
called, they were careful not to thrust forward their mock
opinions, but were content to serve as jurors. They were
always accepted by HamiltQn, if they were men likely to
have an opinion of their own; but for the same cause they
were invariably challenged by the defence. Much the larger
portion of the venire were idle vagabonds, who were too laz'y
to work, and esteemed it a godsend to be put upon a jury,
and hence were always convenient when a venire had to be
summoned; and the Sheriff, like a well-fed Berkshire, was not
over-fond of motion, ann, to save the trouble of riding over
the country to hunt up men to serve on juries, gathered up
the rabble. For this reason, nine out of ten of Mississippi
juries, selected to try men for their lives, would make splen-
did pictures for the frontispiece of a comic almanac, with the
Sheriff at their head, and the District Attorney in the back-
ground. There are the halt, the lame, and the blind, long
legs and short legs, cross-eyes and cock-eyes, high shirt-col-
lars and no shirt-collars at all, long coat-sleeves and sleeves
thiLt stop at the elbow, pants with long legs turned up at the
bottom, and pants with legs that scorned to come nearer than
within six inches of the huge brogans.
hamilton was a~txious to keep from the jury all such hor-
rible imitations of humanity, and generally succeeded in
challenging them for cause; and when he failed in this,
exercised his right of a peremptory challenge until his num-
ber was exhausted. He had nearly exhausted this right, had
only one left, and was anxious to reserve it for a juror whose
name would soon be called, who ~as a sort of striker of Col.
Isaacs, and ha ted the negro man Dave, who had been killed,
because his master had refused to permit this man to flog


264

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

him. The circumstance was as fol1o~vs: The man had got
drunk upon one occasion, and interfered with Dave's work;
and because he was, gently pushed aside by the negro, he
seized a knife, and undertook to stab him, when the boy
~pushed him dowi~, and walked over him. He was chastised
by his master, but this man was enraged at both master and
slave, because he was not permitted to wreak his brutal ven~
glance upon the negro. Hamilton, knowing these facts,
feared that he would make a bad juror, but feared, also, that
he would not be able to challenge him for cause, and hence
was anxious to reserve his remaining peremptory challenge.
Just at this time, a Mr. Rice was called. He was a (TOSS
between a fool and a knave, and represented both parents
remarkably well. He lived no one knew how or where;
sometimes acted as barkeeper of a low do~gery, sometimes as
deputy night-watch, but most of the time ~vas a general
rounder-in at groceries; and was a huge cheer of tobae~o
and guzzler of mean whiskey, and great on election days;
and Jsaacs was a politician, and chanced to be on the side to
serve the interests of which Rice was in the habit of lying
and cheating, and Isaacs was just the man iRice would be
likely to perjure himself for. When called, he came forward
with a high step, like a horse with string-i~alt; had a high
shirt-collar, made passably clean for the occasion: his entire
suit might have been the cast-off garments of "Ichabod."
"Mr. Rice, have you formed or expressed an opinion as
to the guilt or innocence of the accused ?"
"I have not."
"Are you a householder or a freeholder in the county ?"
"I am."
"Do you keep house, Mr. Rice ?"
1 "Yes, I duz."
"Whereabouts ?"
"That ain't nothing' to you, is it ?"

F

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

"Yes, a good deal. Where do you keep house ?"
~' I keeps house, and that 's enough for you to know."
"Do you live in town ?"
"What do you ax me all these questions for ?"
"Answer my question. Do you live in town ?"
"II duz."
"Have you heard any thing of this case ?"
"No, sir"
"Nothing at all ?"
"What do you keep axin me all these questions for ?"
"Answer the questions without your impertinent remarks,
Mr. Rice," by the Court.
"No, sir; nothing. "
"What business were you engaged in* when Dave was
killed ?"
"I was keeping' bar under the hotel."
"Keeping bar at the hotel, and heard nothing of this
ease ?"
"I heerd the pistil; but how 'd I know anybody was
shot ?"
"Did you hear any thing said about it by those who saw
it?"
"I-low could I, when everybody left the bar ?"
"Did you not leave the bar, too ?"
"Do' you reckon I 'd leave my business, when no one was
there ?"
"I do not know. Did you leave it ?"
" No, I did n't."
"And have not heard the ease spoken of since ?"
"No, sir; I hay' n't."
"Nor talked about it yourself?"
"What would I talk about it 'for ?"
"I do not know; but have you not talked about it ?"
"No, sir."

265


260         PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.
"At the hotel when it occurred, lived in the town eveY
since, and never said a word about it yourself; nor heard any
one else say a word about it ?"
"I have sumf'n else to do besides talk 'n about other folk~'
business."
"Have you any conscientious scruples as to the infliction
of capital punishment ?"
"Any what ?"
"Arc you opposed to having a man hung if he had killed
another without justifiable cause
"I'm opposed to hanging Mister Jsaacs for killing a
nigger."
"You do not think it would be right to hang him for kill-
ing a 'nigger,' heh ?"
"No, sir, I don't."
"You can stand aside."
By care and a determination to do his full duty, a tolerably
fair jury was impanelled. While the jury were being
sworn, a friend of Col. Isaacs took Hamilton to one side, and
said:
"Col. isaacs is pleased with the manner in which you have
thus far conducted the case against him; and as you are not
regularly engaged by any one to assist in the prosecution, and
as a man is excusable for making use of all honorable means
to save himself from ~ conviction which may seriously en-
danger his life, he hopes you will not take it as an offence for
him to try and retain your services in his defence; and he
ha~ authorized me to offer you a thousand dollars to aid him."
"I am not worth much," said Hamilton, "but Col. Isaacs
is not rich enough' to buy me."'
"He intends no insult, no bribe, but is really desirous of
engaging your services."
"They are, not for sale."
"Why should you refuse a large fee to defend, and yet

F

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

267

volunteer to prosecute ?" said one of the counsel who heard
the conversation.
"I do not care to discuss the matter, gentlemen. I know
very little of Col. Isaacs, and care less. I intend to do my
duty; band I advise you and Col. Isaacs to look well to the
merits of your cause. You had better send for Mr. Flint."
The last remark wa~ said in a spirit of satire.
The case consumed the larger portion of the ~Yeek. The
interest which the first day's proceeding excited kept an ex-
pectant crowd in the court - room during the entire trial.
Jiamilton's management of the case during its progress
gained for him golden opinions "from all sorts of people ;"
and it was his province to close the argument. The counsel
had been particularly severe in their criticisms upon him in
volunteering to aid iii taking the life of a fellow-man, as
presenting private revenge, etc., all of which he bore with
stoical indifference. Expectation was high, and his friends'
feared it was more than he could meet; bu~ wl~ en he arose,
full of his subject, and his tall, commanding figure half a
head higher than the ~nass around him, his highI, square fore-
head, large, lustrous ~yes, full, round, sonorous voice, and
long arms, that moved by a mental impulse, giving forqe and
emphasis to argunients in themselves convincing, and espe-
cially when lie moVed off with a stateliness and dignity of
manner and argument like "the horse that knows his rider,"
all fear was lost in admiration. The counsel saw a god full-
grown from the head of Mercury. When he spoke ot~ The
orgies of the night before the killing, the spree afterw5ds,
and let fall his arm like a very Vulcan upon the vicious habit
of playing for amusement, and betting t9 count the game,
the hair bristled upon more heads than that of Js~cs.
"The fathers," said he, "leaders in the social circle, cen-
sors of fashion and the press, who indulge in these misnamed
amusements, and rally to the defence of a man who has the


2438

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

depravity to carry them to their legitimate results, should
understand that they are sowiPg broadcast the seeds of vice,
which will bring forth a plentiful crop for your and their
children to reap. When you and they are gone, those who
sue ceed you will garner this harvest of dragon's teeth along
with the household-gods you leave them. You owe it toycur-
selves, you owe it to them, and, above all, you owe ~t to your
God, to rebuke and stay these broadcast sowers of vice and
sin, disease and moral death, these sowers of the 'seeds of the
moral Upas tree. I ask not vengeance; that is with 0 od; I
am willing even thaf the blood of poor, inoffensive Davy shall
smoke and dry in your public thoroughfare in vain, if II
thought that were an end; but it is not the. end: it is not
even the beginning of the end. Public virtue is a name,
and religion a byword, and too often a scoff. What hope
have you, what hope has anybody, in your children, the
young men who swarm along your streets, fashionable idlers,
genteel loafers? What hope does the public repose in the
majority of the, sons of wealthy parents of the South?
None; and why? Because vice and idleness are made at-
tractive and respectable, and virtue, and industry, and habit-
ual obedience to the laws of the land and the rules of good
society, treated with the coldness of unwelcome guests. These
are plain, hard truths, and should not be blinked. It is no
pleasure to me to refer to them; it is painful to know that
they are truths. The remedy, in a great measure, is with
the courts and juries of the country. Whenever the mon-
ster vice comes within the reach of their truncheon, let them
smite him down, and make the temple of justice a terror to
evil-do~rs, a place where innocence may fly for help and pro-
tection, and a reform must and will follow. If courts and
juries had never winked at vice, and bad men had never
been permitted to go out of this temple, which should be
sacved to justice, with 6clat, and left to riot in their wrong,

I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

2639

your streets would long since have been clean~of blood. The
profession of which I am but a young and inexperienced
member, is not altogether free from blame in this particular.
Its influence has been mainly cast in favor of the acquittal of
criminals ~ not because the members of it feel less interest in
the preservation of order and good morals than others, but
because, when engaged in a criminal case, they are usually
retained for the defence, the State always being represented
by an attorney elected for that purpose; and it is but natural
that the feeling's and sympathies channel in
should o'o in the
which they are most accustomed to flow. And a word here
in reply to the criticism of gentlemen upon myself and m
connection with this case. They mock at me as the repre-
sentative of private revenge, or, if not that, a volunteer
hangman. It is a weak cause that needs such props. I am
not ashamed to acknowledge before you that I did yield to
the request of the mother of the deceased, blackamoor as she
is, to volunteer to vindicate the memory of her son, and
bring his cold-blooded murderer to justice. 'And I did it
the more willingly because the murdered man was m~ friend;
yes, black as was his skin, he had a soul white as yours or
mine, and he was my true and honorable friend, and I am
proud to remember hi~m as such. I know not that it will
make his ashes rest the quieter to learn that his murderer
has, been slain by the law; but it will make other mothers
draw their nestlings closer to their breasts to know that this
wild tiger has been turned loose from his cage, again to be-
come the 'terror of the jungle. It is these mothers, and
their and your children, and the violated law, anct ~ coin-
munity who press hard around these court-raili~igs, beseech-
ing you for justice, and serving you by their presence to the
right, that I represent. By this standard of right I am will-
ing to be measured; they-~the counsel for defence -are
measured by thc length of the defendant's, purse-string. I


270         PLAYING FOIL A     USEMENT.
would have you protect the public against a lawless, bad man,
and a still more lawless, bad vice. If you do this, you will
have the approval of your own consciences, and i~h e thanks
and prayers of those who need all the force of. your strong
arm to protect them and maintain the law."
During this impassioned appeal, which loses much of its
force upon paper, the possibility of a conviction first flashed
upon the mind of (Jol. llsaacs. The effect was alarming; the
wild stare frightful.
At the close of the speech the jury retired, and soon re-
turned and handed their verdict to the clerk, who read, amid
he profoundest silence, "We, the jury, find the prisoner
guilty." Its stunning effect upon Isaacs was painful to wit-
ness. It was the first time in his life he felt that he was not
absolute master of himself and his actions-the director and
shaper of his own destiny; the first' time he ever felt the
presence of a power stronger than his will. He had a strong
determined will, and was a buld thinker and resolute actor,
and had always the proud consciousness of an independent
self-sustaining man, and claimed to have every thing he was
master of by his own exertion except his life-and that lie had
long since ceased to value as a boon-would have taken or
given it away for a trifle; indeed had often thought of taking
it, but the idea of its being taken by another, or by the law,
had never occurred to him before, and the thought was terrible.
The thought even of involuntary confinement for one night
was more awful than an eternity of c5nfincment in the grave-
which his skeptical philosophy taught him was the end of
man. He had been a soldier, and obeyed because he had his
consent to do so; but he would have preferred death upon the
battle-field to chains or a prison-ship. Before him was the
prospect of death-and of all deaths the most disgraceful--
and no avenue left through which to fight his way and fall, ~
if he must, by the blade of his enewiy, fighting for life and

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

271

liberty. He gave a quick savage look around, and those
standing near were startled by hearing a click, click, quickly
succeeded by the report of a pistol! Col. Isaacs was no more!
He had shot himself through the heart! He had taken his
last drink for good cheer, played his last game for amusement,
and bet his last dollar to count the game. The game of life
was played out, and he had lost the stake-a stake that dollars
will not pay-and begun a game that dollars will not count-
to continue through an age that will not waste away.


272      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.      273

CHAPTER XXXI.
"Praise is the reflection doth from virtue rise."

THE tragical termination of the prosecution disappointed
the elation of Hamilton's friends at the completeness of his
success, and chastened the exhilaration which he migl~t other-
wise have felt. He had tI e satisfaction of having performed
his duty, and of finding hi nself, at a bound, in a position in
his profession equal to the older members of the bar. Col.
Clarkson, as the trial prog essed, and the moral beauty and
grandeur of Hamilton's m nd and the strength and compass
of his intellect grew into pi~oportions before him, could not
help feeling an interest in ~is success jn spite of his desire to
see Jsaacs acquitted. As he bore reports home of the pro-
gress~~of thc trial, and of the play and dazzle of Hamilton's
genius, the eyes of Agnes sparkled with peculiar brightness
and her heart beat quick. At the close of the trial, Col.
Clarkson desired Ha~nilton to bear the melancholy story home
and excuse him to his family, while he gave his attention to
the remains of his deceased friend. As Hamilton approached
the house, with weary step and n~elancholy mien, Mrs. Clark-
son and Agnes advanced to meet him. Agnes placed her
arm in his; she looked up into his face and said, "Father has
reported to us your success; and 0! Robert! you do not
know how happy and proud it has made me. I knew you were
equal to it; but I wanted others to know it. It is not that
you are eloquent, or that you are learned, but that you are
true."

"You have not heard of the fatal termination of the
trial ?"
"No! Neither you nor pa are going to fight a duel with
him ?"
"No;he is past fighting duels."
"Mercy! Mr. Hamilton; you have not killed him ?" IRe-
leasing his arm and stepping back with a wild anxious look.
"You need not fear my touch; there is no blood on my
hands or conscience, though blood has been spilt. When
the jury brought in a verdict of guilty, Isaacs shot himself
through the heart before those near him were aware of his
design."
"0 Robert, you don't tell me !" exclaimed both ladies at
bnce. Agnes returned to his side, and taking his arm with
both hands; looked up and said:
"0 Robert! did the poor infatuated man rush into the
presence of his God with all his sins upon him! How sorry
I fed tbr you! How little did I think, whilst revelling in
the jo~ occasioned by the report of your success, that the
glory of your triumph would b&amp; thus rudely snatched from
me by the bloody hand of the suicide, and you, ~crhaps, terrified
frQm treading farther in the path of right for right'~ sake !"
"I am~i 'sorry that Col. ]isaacs should thus have terminated
his stormy life-more, however, for his sake than mine. Bet-
ter that he should have killed himself, and robbed the gallows
of its dtmes, than have killed a better man; which might have
been the case had he been acquitted~ Bloody as has been
the issue, it will not have a feather's weight in shaping or
unshaping my course for the future. I be1iev~ I did right,
and I should do it all over again if I knew the termination
would be the same."
"But then it is so sad !"
"Very true, and II regret it; but I shall not be swerved
from the path of duty because bad men do rash things. You

272

273


274      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.      275

have i~emoved the greatest weight which the affair placed
upon my heart, in assuring me that your father is not dis-
pleased with my course."
"0, he is not displeased; on the contrary, is every way
pleased. At first he said ~he was sorry. you had volunteered
in the cause, but afterwards he was pleased that it was' so; that
you had a~ted from principle, and not from a desire of gain."
"lie remonstrated with me at first, and I thought was dis-
pleased at my refusal to withdraw from the case; and it dis-
tressed me. Next to the approval of my conscience, Ii desire
the approval of you three. It is a material portion of the
reward I expect for a virtuous action; and it helps to instruct
and direct my conscience. The censure of either of you
would cloud any 'success I might meet with in life."
"I have s'een very little in you to condemn, thus far,
Robert," said Mrs. Clarkson.
".1 thank you for saying so. 'It will be one of the aims of,
my life to retain your good yinion. What I am you have
contributed no little to make me. If I have walked in the
"right way,' it is because your hand pointed it out to me."
"Another and a smoother hand had shaped your moral
ends, before n~ine was reached out to you," said Mrs. Clark-
son.
"True; and I thank you for a compliment to the mother
whose memory I shall ever revere; but your hand was
stretched out t6 me at a most opportune season. But for
your good counsels, and this dear face here, blushing at its
own praise, thaw shone on me through five long years of exile,
I might have i~ade shipwreck of all the good lessons received
from a sainted another , who, if angels ever pray for us mortals
-and I believe they do, let others call it superstition if they
will-has made many a prayer in that world, high 4bove the
petty trifles and heartaches of this, for the earthly guardians
of her son."

I

They had unconsciously stopped during the conversation,
and now walked slowly and in silence to the house. As they
were ascending the steps, 1~Jrs. Clarkson said:
"I suppose Mr. Clarkson is with the remains of Col.
Isaacs."
"Ii beg your pardon; he told me to inform you of what
bad occurred, and say that he would not be home to dinner."
"You will dine with us
"If agre cable, I would like to do so."
Mrs. Clarkson left to giye orders about her household affairs,
and Agnes said:
"0 Robert, Ii am so proud of you 1"
"I would rather you loved me."
"I do love you; I have always loved you; it is an old
tbeling, but I am proud of you too; this is a new feeling, and
makes me love you all the more."
"Are your 'love and pride together sufficient to secure for
me a favorable answer to the demand you are willing I shall
make, at some period in ~the uncertain future, of this soft
white hand ?"
"Whenever the occasion comes when this 'soft white
hand,' as you call it, can be of any service to you, or add any
thing to your real happiness, you can have it. But that time
has not yet come."
"But may not something happen to prevent it from ever
coming ?"
"If it should happen by your fault or mine, it had better
happen before our volition is gone. If either of us should
ever do any thing by which we deserve to forfeit the other's
respect or love, better that it be done before stronger vows
p~ss between us than after Wards. I do not think such a
thing at all likely, and am willing at all events to trust

"And I am willing to trust you. I never feared any thing


of' that sort, and yet a thousand things may happen to divide
us."'
"It frightens me to hear you talk so ! Name one of the
thousand."
"You might die." -
"I hope my memory would be none the less dear because
other vows were not plighted between us'; and marrying
would not keep me alive."
"Your father might become displeased with me, and re-
fuse his consent to our union."
" Why, Robert, what makes you talk so ? you distress your-
self and me. What has dear papa said or done that makes
you talk so ?"
"Nothing, Do not look so pale. You asked for some of
the thousand reasons that might occur to prevent our union,
and I was weak and foolish enough to guess at some. I know
of none, and apprehend none, and was very foolish, to suggest
any, and crave your pardon. To prove how sincere my re-
pentance is, I will not press upon you our union again, until
an occasion comes when I can ask it as altogether proper."
"And when that time comes, for weal or for woe I will be
yours."
"For weal let us hope it will be."
"For weal I certainly think it will, and pray that it may
be."
If Hamilton had desired to advertise his powers, he could
not have done so more effe-ctually than the tragical end of his
first case had done for him. Reports of the most exaggerated
character spread in relation to it, all attributing the tragedy
to his eloquence. No persons were more affected by the re-
ports than the prisoners in jail awaiting their trial. They'
were clamorous to secure his services; but he was prudent
enough to avoid wearing the gloss from his newly made repu-
tation, by declining fees except in cases where the right was

on'the side of the accused. His determination to be right,
and to do right, saved him from cheapening him self by un-
dertaking an indiscriminate defence of all the criminals who
applied to him. Hie was not inflated by vanity, and though
the growth of his reputation was sudden as was the gourd of
Jonah, it had merit and principle to sustain it, and, so far
from declining, it continued. gradually to increase and
strengthen.

H

276  PAYINGFOILAMUSEENT.PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                      27

276

277


PLAYING PoR ~A MUSE7NT.
CHAPTER XXXII.
"Against self-slaughter
There is a prohibition so divine,
That cravens my weak hand."
SHA1~5PEARE.
THE death of Col. Tsaacs produced a very serious effect
upon Capt. Orr; and the friends of the latter felt great con-
cern on his account. The two had been inseparable for years;
had fought public and private battles together; enjoyed pros-
perity and suffered adversity together; and their sudden
separation fell with crushing effect upon Orr. Isaacs had
been his military commander, and the Captain was accustomed
to follow wherever his intrepid senior would lead. He was
at all times, whether on or off duty, ready to answer any call
made upon him by Isaacs. Like his Colonel, he had no re-
ligious or moral scruples that wbuld deter him from doing
what his inclination might prompt. lile had no~ the resolute
determination .of Jsaacs; and though~ would follow through
fire and flood, he could not lead.. For several days after the
death of Isaacs, Orr was gloomy and taciturn, and at times
exhibited singular fancies. At one time he would dress him.-
self in the most elaborate wedding-attire; at another in full
military officer's dress, as if ready to place himself under the
orders of his superior. He also drank deep, and was more
or less intoxicated all the time. His friends remonstrated,
with him, but to no purpose. He failed to make his appear-

I

PLAYING FOR, AMUSEMENT.

279

ance at breakfast one morning, and his friends going to his
roomto ascertain the cause, found him sitting in full military
dress, stark and stiff. He had taken poison! Upon the
table by him was a note, addressed to Col. Isaacs, which read
thus:
IDEAR Cob.: -J come to place myself under your com-
mand.
Your ever faithful and devoted
JUNIOR.
Among his papers was the following note, addressed to
Frank Vaughan, written the day after the death of Col.
Isaacs:
DEAR FRANK :-IDo you recollect the conversation which
Col. Isaacs and myself had with you at Cooper's Well, some
two or three summers since? Before you get this, Col.
Jsaacs and myself will both fill a suicide's grave-the result
of the evils against which we then warned you. "~Beware
of liquor, dice, and bad women," were my last words to you
then: I repeat them now. I am a coward! I would not.
live, and yet I fear to die! "How stale, fiat, and unprofita-
ble seem to me all the uses of this world !" yet I have not
the courage to leave them. In leaving, there are none
behind foi~ whom I have a kinder regard than for you,
save-
Ifere he had suddenly broken off, as if he had approached
a subject too much for his agitated mind. There was a swell
in the paper, marking a place where a tear had fallen.
On a separate piece of paper was written: "Yes, beware
of a bad woman, but never deceive a good one."
A large concourse of people followed his remains to the


08O

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

~rave. A~he procession moved slowly along the street, one
disposed to look might have seen an interesting, sad group
standing out upon the pavement in front of a modest cottage
~a mother and three children, one girl and two boys, the
eldest about fourteen years, the youngest six. The mother
stood in the gateway, the gate slightly ajar, resting her chin
upon the hand that held the gate-picket, the other hand
hanging despondingly down by her side, the tears running in
rills over her o'rief-worn face, presenting the picture of a
heart-broken, despairing woman. She had been beautiful,
and was still handsome. The eldest girl stood transfixed with
a stony gaze as the hearse rumbled by. The others were
weeping' bitterly but noiselessly. They did not know;why
they should swallow their grieg, and not express it like other
children; 'but their mother said "Flush !" in such a soft, sad,
heart-reaching tone that they cried in silence. It did not re-
quire a second look to tell that one' was the victim, the others
the children of the suicide. It explained why he had broken
off so suddenly in his letter to Vaughan, and why, in all his
warnings to him, he had coupled woman's name. It would
seem that he had never, until writing the note to Vaughan,
thought that even a bad woman might have been made so by
a worse man. That thought seemed to strike him when he
penned the disjointed sentence, "Yes, beware of a bad wo-
man, but never deceive a good one." It was a soliloquy
which ought to have brought to his imagination the picture
which those who followed his bier saw in front of the cottage,
where once his footsteps sounded gladly in the hall, and have
admonished' him to make what little reparation lay in his
power for those who' were fain to hide from the hard-judging
world the sorrow with which his untimely death wrung their
hearts. Let it be a warning to such as have trod, like him,
the same path of vice.
These sad terminations of the lives of two of his compan-
ions came with a warning emphasis to Col. Clarkson, that he

I

F

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

281

could not altogether disregard. For several weeks he was
thoughtful, and resisted the entreaties of his friends to join
in the game. Old habit, however, was more powerful than
any warning the grave could give, a~d by degrees he fell
back into the old routine. At the solicitation of some of
'his friends in New Orleans, he determined to spend the
'ensuing summer season at Last Island, a place of fashion-
able summer resort for a number of the wealthy seekers of
pleasure in the Crescent City and other portions of Louisiana.
Mrs. Clarkson had an indefinable dread of spending the
summer at Last Island, which she could not well explain.
She tried to attribute it to a fear that her husband might fall
in with worse company there than he would meet else-
where; but she was not satisfied with the effort, as they~
would meet only a small and select company upon the Island,
and though playing might be expected, i~ was much less
likely to degenerate into the meaner grade of gambling than.
at watering-places they had previously visited. The sensa-
tion was like the shadow of coming evil. She could not
account for it, 'and felt ashamed to have it influence her de-
cision, but she could not avoid it. Her husband laughed at
her fears~, and obtained her reluctant consent to disregard
them, and spend the summer upon the Island. Her feelings
proved contagious, and the packing and preparing for~ their
departure was a melancholy task, such as it had not been
upon previous similar occasions. Agnes took a solitary walk
over the garden, kissing the sweet flowers that bloomed
around her; and wept as she took leave of the servants ~that;i';
were to be left behind, scare ely knowing why. Every thing
around seemed sadly reluctant at the idea of 'separation.
The long shadows of the trees appeared stretching out their
arms to entreat her stay; and the sunbeams lingered longer
upon her fair cheek, unwillii~g to leave so sweet ~ resting-
place; and her heart sank within her as she bade adieu to all
these home-scenes and treasures.


282       PLAYING     FOR j. AMUSEMENT.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
"Of winds and waves, the strangely mingled sounds
IRide heavily; the night winds hollow sweep,
Mocking the sounds of human lamentation."
LAST ISLAND is situated in the Gulf of Mexico, distant fro~n
the mainland about twenty miles, and from the nearest poi h t
five or six miles. It is twenty-five miles in length, and from.
a half to three quarters in width, and only thi'ee or four feet
above the waters of the Gulf. Exposed as it was to the full
sweep of the water and breezes of the GuW it had become a
most desirable resort in the summer months, and the planters
in the Gulf. Parishes of Attuckapas, Lafourche, and Terre
Bonne, made it a summer retreat for themselves and families.
Numbers from the city of New Orleans, and an occasional in-
dividual from other States, also resorted to it in preference
to more crowded and ,less agreeable watering-places. A fine
hotel had been erected upon the Island, and persons of wealth
had built handsome summer cottages and some expensive
edifices which were furnished with taste and elegance. All
that an unstinted purse and the best taste in the Magnolia
State could do to make the Island a summer Eden had been
done. The barren sand-bank had been made the seat of
elegance, refinement, and hospitality, and from four to five
hundred of the wealth, talent~, beauty, and chivalry of the
State of Louisiana and a few from Mississippi had gathered
there. The leading officials of the State, executive, judicial,

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.    283

and legislative, were there, and Colonel and Mrs. Clarkson
found themselves surrounded by enlightened and congenial
society, unsurpassed by any in the United States. There was
an openness and abundance in the Creole hospitality that
amounted almost to profuseness, and put everybody at ease,
and the summer days fl&amp;w swiftly and delightfully by. Mrs.
Clarkson found in the educated and polished ladies of La-
fourche and Assumption, material to drive away all the fore-
bodings of evil which had made her reluctant to spend the
summer on the Island, and often congratulated herself upon
the pleasure which this delightful society opened to her.
Col. Clarkson, too, found congenial spirits-men, even this
elegant circle, who would play as much and bet as high as he
could desire, but all in the most gentlemanly way; and though
they would talk fast and sometimes loud, their conversation
iiever sank to a level with that of the bully and blackguard.
It was seductive, and for that reason the most dangerous
companionship in the world. But the majority of visitors of
both wealth and talent did npt participate in the games-
preferring other sources of enjoyment which their education,
habits, and the Island furnished. Ag~es too found v society
to her taste. She met there a large number of young ladies
of wealth and beauty, and they were not without young men
of taste and education to serve them, and who spared no pains
to make their time pass pleasantly.
One Friday evening, as Agnes was walking upon the beach
with some of her companions, listening to the dash of the surf
and the sigh of the summer breeze that lifted her locks, one
of her associates, who had been noticing the passengers from
the steamer which had just come in from the mainland,
exclaimed:
"0! Agnes, see! What venerable gray-haired old man
is that?"
Agnes turned to look, and saw the Hermit approaching


284      LAYINGG FOR AMUSEMENT.

them. Delighted as she was to see him, it caused a chill
about her heart that made her feel sick and faint. Recover-
ing from the sensation, she bounded forward, threw her arms
around his neck, and kissed him.
"Is any thing the matter ?" sIre asked.
"Nothing at home; all well there."
"Any thing the matter here ?"
"I do not know. I am growing old, I fear, and super-
stitious. I felt as if some evil approached you, and ydu needed
my presence, and I am here to serve you."
"0, my dear friend what can it be !"
"Do not be alarmed; it may be nothing but the fancy of a
foolish, fond old man."
"Do not say so; your presentiments have too much the
~hape of reality; and I have had a presentiment of evil myself,
and so has ma. To-day, when I was reciting my prayers, in
'the little temporary chapel out there, the melancholy moan
of the wind through the casement inspired me with a feeling
of sadness Ii have not been able to get rid of all day."
"It may be nothing; but I thought it best to be here, and
I have come. I did not intend that you should know of my
pi~esence unless I found you threatened with danger, and my
efforts necessary for your safety. Do not be sad."
"I cannot avoid being sad, but Ii feel all the safer by your
presence."
"Let your parents know I am here, and what brought me,
but tell no one else."
Nothing happened of note that night. Agnes felt the
presence of her strange intrepid guardian, and knew he kept
watch near here ' To avoid the curious looks of strangers,
which were unpleasam1mt to him, he had consented to become
the guest of Col. Clarkson, who occupied a rented. cottage.
There was a gloom over the little circle all day on Saturday,
notwithstanding the efforts of each to dispel it.

PLAYING     FOR   AMUSEME NT.           285
~ Towards evening a heavy northeast wind began to blow.
It sounded like a dirge to the inmates of the cottage, as it
howled around the corners and whistled through the case-
ment. It would occasionally lull, then dash over the Island,
catch up the sand, whirl it in eddies through the air, then
sprinkle it over the blue sparkling waters. The wind con-
tinued to increase during the night, coming in fitful gusts,
that jarred the little cottage and made every timber crack-
filling' all with the fear of an approaching storm. Sunday
morning the wind rushed and roared over the Island, blinding
its temporary inhabitants with clouds of sand. About ten
o'clock in the morning it blew a perfect hurricane, and all
felt the tread and howl of the storm-god, and looked wildly
around for help and safety. Agnes clung instinctively to the
Hermit. The steamboat "Star" that plied between the Is-
land and Bayou Beouf had arrived outside the bar early on
Sunday morning, but the water was too low for her a~ that
tune to cross the bar. Col. Clarkson was anxious to get
aboard ~of her with his family, but there was no safe access.
The storm soon came on with all its fury, and the steamer
was floated across the bar near the door of the hotel. The
Hermit urged Col. Clarkson to carry his family to the hotel,
and, if possible, pass thence to the boat; but the rage of the
tempest was such that it seemed like certain destruction to
attempt it, ~rnd he shrank back appalled at the thought. The
Hermit, however, seized Agnes, and, though blinded by the
rain and deafened by the roar, he breasted the storm, and'
reached the hotel in safety, followed by the negro man, Abe-
whom (Jlarkson had kept near his person since he rescued him
from the flood-..~bearing in his arms two of his master's children.
The scene of terror and alarm at the hotel was heyoi~md de-
scription. The chimneys of the steamer were blown away,
and she threatened to be capsized and blown out to sea, to
avoid which anchors were dropped, an4 all her oabiii~ and


gU

286

PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.

upper tiihbcrs were cut away. By the fury of the storm t~e
waters were heaped up between the Island and the mainland,
and upon their return, driven from the shore, the mad sca
rushed over the Island. To avoid the rush of the waters, the
terrified guests betook themselves to the upper rooms of the
hotel. While there, a crash and wild cry, that rose above the
thunder and rattle of the storm, drew all to the windows. A
cottage, with its inmates, was seen borne upon the bo~om of
the flood and buried in the Gulf. The terrified occupants of
other cottages rushed out and attempted to reach the hotel,
and were washed away. Crash succeeded crash, and house
after house yielded to the pressure of the storm and ~ind,
and tumbled to pieces, or were borne away by the w yes.
Col. Clarkson felt his cottage shaking under him, and ex-
pected every moment it would go. His remaining chil ren
and servants were lashed to such articles of furniture a he
hoped might be sufficient to buoy them up above the wa es,
should the storm carry away the cottage. The presence of
mind of his wife amid the wild confusion was extraordin ry.
Every precaution was taken by her that could be to secure
their safety. A sudden dash of wind Oarried away the roof
of the house, killing one of the servants by a falling piece
of timber. The other servants and children were borne off
and Mr. and Mrs. Clarkson seizedhold of a heavy piece of float-
ing timber and lashed themselves to it by means of strong strips
of cloth, prepared by Mrs. Clarkson for that purpose. Agnes
saw her parents float off with the wreck of the cottage,
screamed, and fell back into the arms of the 1-hermit. A
tremendous crash, and the cry, "The hotel is going !" caused
a simultaneous rush to the basement. It was barely reached
when the upper story was blown away, and the water rushed
into the lower rooms. The scene that followed was awful.
The deafening roar of the sea, the howl of the free winds,
the fierce glare of the lightning, the torrent of falling rain, the

PLAYING    FOIL AMUSEMENT.            28T
upheaving of the billows, the wrecks of houses, and the cry
of men, women, and children, clinging for life to the floating
timbers, presented a scene of the awfully sublime, such as
few ever witnessed, and none who witnessed it can think of
without a shudder and an involuiXtary invocation to the great
God of the tempest and sunshine. It was evident to all that
the remnant of the hotel, where the terrified survivors of the
storm found temporary foothold , could not much longer with-
stand the combined force of the mad elements. The hull of
the steamer lying neai~ the door, fast anchored and nearly
buried, alone promised to outride the storm; and thither t~.e
attention of the apparently doomed ones was directed: the
distance was short, but the passage~ perilous to a degree that
made the stoutest hesitate. It was a grand sight, amidst that
terrified group, to see the stern gray-haired old Hermit, with
bared head, face the tempest. lie looked indeed like ~t.
very sea-god, and all turned instinctively to him for aid and
counsel. When it became evident that the hull of the
steamer offered the only hope of safety, he caught up Agnes
as if she had been a child, and bore her in safety to the
wreck. his example was quickly followed by others, but in
si~ch haste and confusion that great numbers lost their bal-
ance and were washed away. He strove to establish some-
thing like order, and performed prodigies of strength, as did
others who were sufficiently self-possessed to act with judg-
ment. There was only one moment when he manifested any
thing like human emotion. The living had been swept from
his side, falling timbers had prqstrated others, mothers gath-
bred around and prayed him to save their childi~en, husbands
to save their wives, and children their parents, and amid all
he acted like a man of iron, helping where help could avail,
but as deaf to cries and clamor as to the roar of the storm;
but he had noticed an old man, about his age and make, who,
like himself had exe~ted every energy to save the frightened~
f

*
a


288     PLAYING FOIL AMUSEMENT.                          PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.     289

guests, and had crossed at the imminent peril of his life
some dozen or more times the fearful passage, each time
hearing one or more persons too timid or too feeble to at-
tempt it alone; and at last, in endeavoring to convey a~ lady
across, missed his step, and, with the lady, was borne off into
the boiling surge. The old man's eyes swank and the mus-
cles of his face trembled as he saw his companion in danger
and deeds of daring borne away by the revengeful flood, as if
in rage at the numbers he had rescued from its liquid eni-
brace. Among those who perished in their charitable efforts
to save and rescue the timid was ~he faithful negro man Abe,
who had \struggled like a hero, and exhibited a contempt of
danger and death to sav~ the holpiess that shamed many a
white face. His deeds will be told over by many a mother
to her offspring, both saved' by his brawny arm. He did not
perish' until he had saved the two children of his master,
taken by him from the cottage.
Between two and three hundred of Louisiana's bravest
sons and most beautiful daughters in one short day found a
watery grave, where' but the day before all was hope and
f'estiv~lty! Not a tenement was left upon the Island.
The suffering upon the hull of the steamer, where the sur-
vivors were huddled together, was truly appalling. They re-
mained there in an unsheltered, famishing condition all the
succeeding night, and thQ next day and night, before relief
came.
Vessels were sent out in search of those who might have
saved themselves by clinging to falling timbers, and numbers
were found and picked up. Agnes, who had been conveyed
with the others to Berwick's Bay, waited until her heart
grew sick and faint, hoping to hear that her father and
mother were among those thus saved. But in vain: no
tidings of them were had. The remains of her brother and
sister who perished were found and recognized. A parcel

Ps

of wreckers, semi-pirates, who infested a portion of the coast
and Island, had visited the scene of disaster in search of
plunder, and had stripped such of the dead as were left upon
the Island of every thing by which their friends might recog-
nize thenf, and it was only in rare instances that the recov*
ered bodies could be known by their surviving friends.
Each day Agnes would walk upon the beach, and look
longingly out upon the ndw quiet Gulf; as if expecting to
welcome 'her sea-washed parents from the embrace of the
mermaid, and would turn disappointed a'~vay, and, with sad
heart and weary step, return to the hotel in company with
the Hermit. As she was about leaving for hon~c, Robert
Hamilton stepped unexpectedly into her apartment. She
threw herself into his arms, and both wept in silence to-
gether. He at last said:
"I see you are prepared for your journey home. Go; I
have heard all. The kind friend who has already done so
much for you will see you home, and II will' stay and search
the coast and Gulf; and not leave off until I restore their dear
remains to you, or all hopes of a recovery of them are gone."
"0, Robert! Robert I" she said, with her in~iploring face
turned to his. "The sight of you has revived the hope al-
most dead at my heart that I shall again see my dear, dear
parents. 0, they cannot be lost! they cannot be lost! Some-
thing here "-pressing her hand upon her heart-" tells me
they are not lost. 0, my God! my God! spare a bended reed!
Leave to me this hope-the sweet hope that I shall again see
my parents. 0 God! I bend to thee, I bend to thee; break
not the bended reed! 0, may I see my parents once more,
once more! 0, my sad heart, it will break, it will break!
What shall I do? 0, what shall I do? Will not some kind
angel guard and save my parents, my dear father, my blessed
mother ?"
"Yes, my daughter, yes," whispered the Hermit.
10


290      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.      291

She gave him a wild, anxious, searching look, lie looked
abstractedly in her face, and said in a husky voice, "Yes,
yes," without apparently being conscious of what he said.
She sprang forward, threw her arms around his neck, and
emptied into his broad bosom the flood that seemed~drowning
her heart. He immediately repented what he had said, and
was astonished at the act. When he said it he believed it to
be true, but the feeling left him as he felt the clasp of the
young girl's arms around his neck, and he reproached liim~
self for having inspired a hope his better judgment told him
must be vain. He could not explain ~o himself why he had
done a thing which seemed s~ unwarrantable, and which for the
moment felt like reality, but which vanished ahnost with the
sound of his voice. The thought of the terrible reaction
whi~h Would take place when the hope thus incautiously in-
spired should be succeeded by despair, gave him the keenest
sense of pain.
No persuasion of Hamilton or the Hermit could induce
Agnes to leave until the search for her parents proved suc-
cessful, or should be abandoned.
Vessels dotted the Gulf and bay in every direction in search
of the missing, and every nook and obscure corner of the
coast and bay were searched by smaller craft, but all in vain.
Morning after morning caihe, but brought no tidings to
Agnes.
Colonel Clarkson and his wife were borne off by the waves
with the piece of timber to which they had lashed them-
selves, and, left to the mercy of the winds, they were blown'
far out to sea, beyond the range of the vessels sent in search
of the missing. When the storm lulled, they were floated by
the refluent waves in toward the land, but out of sigl~t~of the
vessels and friends in search of them. All Sunday night,
Monday, Tuesday, and Tuesday night they were buffeted by
the sea. Their thirst and hunger were inexpressibly great.

290

He bore it less patiently than his wife, and begged her to
loose him from the timber and let them go down together,
but the true and brave woman encouraged him to patience
and resignation. They were finally cast ashore a short dis-
tance up a small bayou. Clarkson was almost entirely dis-
abled: his limbs were stiffened and swollen, and he was
powerless to help himself:, and his wife was barely able to
move about. The country around them was flat and marshy,
and their only chance of final rescue was that of being seen
and picked up by some one passing along the bayou. They
could see the vessels far out' in the Gulf in search of them,
but could do nothing~ to attract attention. They saw the skiff
of Robert pass up the bayou and~ retlirn, and were unable to
make noise enough to attract his attention, though tliey did
not at the time know who was in the skiff, nor that it was in
search of them. They subsisted upon buds, and such craw-
fish and frogs as Mrs. Clarkson could catch, he being en-
tirely unable to help himself. When they saw the skiff
pass, and were unable to make themselves heard or seen, Mr.
Clarkson despaired, and was detected by his wife in an effort
to cut his throat with his pocket-knife. When interrupted
by her, and the knife wrested from him, he begged to be
led into the water, where th~y might perish together. She
rebuked and exhorted him to patience and resignation.
Knowing that the skiff would pass near them on its re-
turn, she tore a width from the skirt of her dress and
fastened it to a bush which she could shake, and by means
of which she hoped to attract attention; but before the
return of the skiff, some fishermen-an old man and his
son-chanced to pass down, and, seeing the signal, took
them in their scow and furnished them with food and fresh
water, and started with them to their anxious friends.
Hamilton in returning overtook th'em, and hastened to bear
the welcome intelligence to Agnes. Her joy was as wild

291


292      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                               PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.       298

as her grief. She flew to them and nestled close to them
like some fond birding. She could not speak; she felt
too much for words. Nor did she forget the wants of these
loved parents who had suffered such anguish upon the
waters. It was affecting to see - how patiently she bore the
fretting of her sick and disabled father, and how unwearily
she tended her worn-out but brave mother. Colonel Clark-
son had lost almost entirely the use of his limbs; and his
temper, which had always been so placid, was as irascible and
fretful as an infant's. Mrs. Clarkson was nearly bald. The
sea water had matted her long luxuriant hair, and the pain
was so intolerable that she had managed to saw it off with
her husband's pocket-knife whilst lying in the bayou.
The ilermit was so overcome when the news of their re-
covery reached him, that he buried his face in his hands, and
the large tears forced themselves through his fingers.

'I

* CHAPTER XXXIV.
"Brave spirits are a balsam to themselves:
There is a nobleness of mind that heals
Wounds beyond salves."
MRS. CLARI~iso~ very soon recovered from the effects of
her exhaustion and exposure. Not so, however, her husband:
for some time he suffered almost torment in his limbs, and
for several days he was unable to walk, and could only drag
himself about with much difficulty and pai~i; and his fret-
fulness and peevisl~ness made him a very di~eult patient to
nurse. Agnes an the rest of the family, including Robert
and the Hermit, were all attention. His sufferings had evi-
dently, to some extent, impaired his mind, and made him
harsh and exacting towards his family, and especially so
towards the wife who had braved with him the dangers of
the tempest, and borne so patiently the cravings of hunger
and thirst.
As soon as he was sufficiently recovered to travel, they
started homeward. In passing New Orleans, they engaged a
physician to accompany them to the plantation, where they
went in preference to their residence in the city, as the sickly
season was not entirely past, and the yellow fever had pre-
vailed there the year previous. The attention of the doctor,
for a few days after their airival home, was directed exclu-
sively to Col. Clarkson; but he chanced one day to notice the


294      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                             PLAYING FO~ AMUSEMENT.       29f

appearance of the Hermit as he passed through the sick-
room, and was struck by the appearance of bodily suffering
visible upon his face, and, turning to him, said:
"My dear sii~ you need my services far more than my
patient here, whose sufferings-I beg his pardon for saying
so-are to some extent imaginary."
This remark directed the attention of all to the Hermit,
and they were surprised and pained to note the lines which
suffering and disease had made, without their having observed
it. They had thought only of the one who, by his com~
plaints, had drawn attention to himself. It was so unusual
for Col. Clarkson to be sick, and still more for him to fret
and complain, that they had been absorbed by their sympathy
fot and attention to him, and had not thought of others.
He, too, turned and looked at his old friend; and the change
was such,* that he sprang up from the lounge upon which he
lay with bandaged feet, and, despite the twinge which shot
through his limbs as he put his feet heavily to the floor, ho
approached the Hermit, and said
"My dear friend, and the saviour of my child, have you
been thus uncomplainingly suffering, with disease~ ,~eding
upon your life, while I have absorbed.the attention of all by
my childish complaints and frettino~? You must let the doc-
tor prescribe for you, and we will all nurse you."
Agnes crept close to him, and, kneeling down by the chair
in which he had seated himself gave expression, by look and
moan, t~ the deep feeling of sympathy which she felt for his
sufferings, and a full acknowledgment of the double debt of
gratitude she owed him; and, at the same time, by her man-
ner, expressed her pain and, mortification that his sufferings
should have so long escaped her notice.
"Never mind, my darling," said he; "you have nothing
to reproach yourself with. Yori have been used to regard
me as exempt from pain-something beyond human suffer~

ing and, disease; and I have thought so too. For thirty
years, I have not been subject to the ills and infirmities to
which flesh is heir. It is changed no~~ The cord of life
is loosening; my office tenure is nearly out."
"0 di not talk so! do not talk so, my kind friend I"
"Do not distress yourself: it is a pleasure rather than a
pain to me that life is loosing its hold upon me. I have little
to bind me here, and much to draw me to the home of the
/ blessed beyond the floods and casualties of this life. And
do not, I beseech you, make bitter the only cup which I have
longed to drink, by unavailing sorrow at the prospect of my
departure. I can be of no more service to you; so let me
pass, without regret, to embrace those who have long waited
my coming. I knew my course was run when your parents
were recovered from the Island wreck. I had then nothing
further left for me to do; and my days since have been only
so many steps downward."
"0! you will live, and be spared to us yet many years I"
"Not so, my child. Would you know why I have been
from the first so drawn to you? My life has been all
thought and feeling, and in you I found a sympathy which I
did not see in others; and it secured you a place in my
withered heart, which you have warmed by your innocence
and love. Let the thought of the* little sunshine you have
given to the evening of my life console you for the loss you
may feel when I am gone."
Agnes and all tried to dissuade him from such thoughts,
and to think of life rather than death; and the doctor said:
"You are mistaken, my old friend: you will outlive us all
yet."
"I am not mistaken, Doctor, and your looks tell me that
you know I am not. The springs of life are all dried up,
and I experience a giving way of the vital functions which
warns me that my end is nigh. My dear girl," turning to

A
1j~
I

295

294


296        PLAYING    FOR A    USEMENT.
Agnes, "like the mistletoe, you l~ave added a little verdure
to an old dried trunk; but it was. not native growth, and the
hare trunk must, go. It was once a pleasure to think that
when the summons should come, there would be none left to
drop a tear on my coffin, or follow my remains to the grave,
save ~the two old companions of my solitude. But I am self-
ish enough to feel a melancholy gratification that one so pure
and good as you, will some timesthink kindly of inc when I
am gone."
At their earnest solicitation he consented to take whatever
prescription the doctor might offer him; but no persuasion
could prev~dl upon him to remain at Col. Clarkson's house.
lie persisted in his determination to return to his oWn hum-
ble cottage. The next day he was unable to make his accus-
tomed visit to Col. Clarkson. The latter, feeling deeply re-
buked by the Hermit's uncomplaining course, an&amp; grieved
that he should have been th~ means of diverting attention
from the greater sufferer, threw off his lethargy; and, though
the effort cost him considerable pain, walked with his wife to
the Hermit's cottage.. They found ~him in bedunable to be
up. What kind nursing could do to alleviate pain, and ward
of the stroke of death, was done. Mrs. Clarkson, whose full
woman's heart flowed out to him for having twice restored to
her her child, was assiduous in her attentions to him. He
had a powerful 'frame, and, like a solid fortress, it yielded
slowly to the enemy. The gray of autumn set in, and he
still lay upon his bed, with the kind and ever attentive
nurses about him. The leaves of~ the china trees which
shaded his yard and house had all turned that pale and beau-
tiful yellow which precedes their fall; and, at each gentle
rustle of the autumn wind, would leave the stem, and flutter
in clouds to the ground, falling 'as soft as snow-flakes, and
producing a singularly sad, pleasing sensation, that forced
upon the mind thQughts of decay and death. One such

297

afternoon, he motioned Agnes to approach him, and asked
her to hand him a little casket that lay upon a table near the
foot of his bed. From it he took a manuscript, carefully
rolled up, and, looking~ at Mrs, Clarkson, said:
"It was with no desire to write a tale, or to interest any
one in my history, nor to excuse my unproductive and soil'-
tary life, that I have penned this sketch of myself. I did
it because I knew you must have some desire to know
who I am, and why I am thus, and you are entitled to have
that desire gratified. . My end draws near, and I would hear
you read it. I have a human weakness to be known to those
I love and who love me, before I go. Please read ;" handing
the manuscript to Agnes.
It was a severe task for* Agnes, in her agitated state of
mind, to comply with his request; but she did so, and, rally-
ing her energies, read:

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.


LAYINGNG FOR AMUSEMENT.         299

INLAYING FA~l1~ AMUS~EMENT,

CHAPTER XXXV.
"A blossom full of promise is life's joy,
That never comes to fruit."
THE HER IT' S HISTORY.
M~ father, David Stani y, was an unpretending planter
in one of the southern~ or middle counties of Mississippi.
My parents were both pious people of the Baptist persuasion,
and resided near a country hurch where the different Chris-
tian denominations of the ewly settled country, Methodist,
Baptist, and Presbyterian, preached once in each month.
My father was one of the ear iest settlers in the neighborhood,
and had moved there when I was quite a child. When I was
twelve or fourteen years of' age, the neighborhood was thickly
settled by small planters and farmers, each owning his home-
stead and stock, some a few negroes, and others a good many
more. This was before the speculations which prostrated the
energies. ~f the State and ruined its morals. At that time
the society was moral, and good schools were abundant and
well patronized, and the largest fiospitality and best social
feeling prevailed.' My father was the wealthiest planter in
the neighborhood, and his house, though rough, was large
and roomy, and his hospitality unbounded, and his home be-
came a resort for all the young people. in the neighborhood,
more particularly upon Church days. I had an older brother,

and also a sister older than myself. At the time I speak oft,
my brother was twenty-three years of age, and my sister seven-
teen, and were both fond of company, and were good eques-
trians. My tastes were different. Society was distasteful to
me, though it was always a pleasure to see company at my
father's house. When the young people would gather there,
and make the house, and woods, and orchards vocal with
their boisterous glee, I would take my dog and Amos, my
faithful old serving-man, then a lad, and wander through the
fields and woods, or along the brook that watered the large
pasture-ground. Game was abundant, but I had no desire
to kill it. I delighted to see the wild deer bound free through
the grand old woods, and felt a pang when one was shot
down, and its beseeching eyes rolled in search of sympathy
and help. I was enthusiastically attached to my sister, and
loved my mother with a feeling akin to idolatry. I would
sit for hours and watch her at her needlework. At such
times I had no wis~h to talk, II only wanted to think. I did
not care to be wjth her when others were present. I had the
sam~ feeling with regard to my sister. I loved to see her
admired and courted, and when none others were by I sought
her company, and would listen to her voice as she would talk,
sing, and read, with a music in her tone and accent that al-
ways charmed me. At such times I was silent; if another
joined us I would walk off; though I was never jealous. I
did not then nor do I know now the feeling of jealousy. I
could think of her, look at her, and listen to her clear, ringing,
happy laugh, just as well removed a little from her as when
nearer.
The family for a long time thought me lacking in that
spirit and resolution which characterized both branches of
my family, but upon one occasion I chanced to hear a gentle-
man make a light remark about my sister-something about
her being heartless, a coquette, or something of that sort-


300

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

and the fierce, demon-like spring which I made upon him,
and clawed his face and tore his bosom, startled everybody,
and not only removed the fear of a want of proper spirit, but
caused great anxiety on my account on the part of my mother.
It gave to her a knowledge of m-y character, which enabled
her to shape her lessons so as to weed out passions and nox-
ious thoughts which might otherwise have been my bane .~
never joined the gay cavalcades formed by the young people.
I had no wish to join in them, yet I loved to see them.
Horseback was almost the only mode of conveyance in the
country at that time, and men and women were of necessity
good riders; my sister was particularly so, and it afforded me
the intensest pleasure to see her in her beautiful, close-fitting
riding-habit, and graceful little cap, with long drooping
feather, vault into the saddle and bound off, with heart as
light and free as her horse's heels. She always understood
me; my brother never did, though I never censured him; in-
deed, I never thought of it.
After a time, more wealthy planters and speculators began
to move in and buy up the smaller farms, and to open large
plantations. The felling of the forest and the breaking up
of the virgin soil occasioned a decay of vegetable matter,
which prodi~ced annually congestive chills and fevers, which
carried off a large number of the population, and a~nong
others, within a few weeks of each other, my mother, brother,
and sister, leaving~ my father and myself to weep over their
graves, and mour~i that we could not accompany them. Ii
hardly know h6w ii survived this utter wreck a~d ruin of my
every earthly feeli pg and hope! The void, the vacancy about
the heart, can be i!lnderstood only by those who have felt it.
Even now, when all is wilted about me and my very muscles
are dry and hard!, and time's ploughshare has made deep
furrows on my then smooth face, my heart cleaves closer to
my side as I draw the veil which time has flung over my

301

long-buried grief. The blow was equally heavy upon my
father. His all was gone. We were the last of our race.
I had been told of a female cousin, bpt my father had never
been able to ascertain if she were livin~; and, of a large family,
my father and myself only remained. My silent, thoughtful
life had made me secondary with him to his other children.
In his plans and hopes for the future I was not included, ex-
cept as an object to be provided for. In my older brother
all his hopes for the family and its success had been centered.
It was long before he rallied sufficiently to consider what had
best be done with me. He thought it advisable to send me
to college, and yielded to the persuasiofl of an old friend of
his, who had disposed of his place and negroes in Mississippi
and settled in one of the Western States, to place me under
his guardianship, to be sent to a new and flourishing college,
in the village in which he lived. Thither I was accord ugly
taken'. The village was a quiet and orderly place, and the
school as good as a new and only partially endowed college
could be. The, teachers were kind, and I was well satisfied
with my situation.
The change of scene and formation of new acquaintances
by degrees blunted the edge of my grief, and I became as
cheerful and lighthearted as others. I was contented; I be-
lieve I was happy, if a perfectly inactive state of feeling
and sentiment could be called happiness. If I did well or ill,
it was not from a desire to do either, for I am not conscious
of ever having foi~med a design of any kind. I acted by the
mere force of chance. If I behaved virtuously, as I believe
I did, I deserved no credit for it, as it, was done without
thought, and because I had formed no vicious habit, and
hence was not tempted to do wrong~ To those whose. society
* was agreeable to me, I was a favorite, for I was never moody,
always cheerful, and preferred tojisten rather tl~an talk; and
those whose society was unpleasant to xue, I avoided rather

1~.

]?LAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.


by instinct than by design, and hei~ce never gave them of-
fence. Though often invited, I never attended any of the
parties given in town, nor for some time extended my ac-
quaintance beyond the family of m~ guardian. Being from
the South, and having the reputation of great wealth, I was
much caressed both in the college and by persons in town,
though such a thing never occurred to inc at the time. Upon
one occasion I was invited by the young lady who lived at
the house of my guardian-a ward and relative of hi~-to an
evening party given by her at his house. I did not think of
going at first, but my roommate, the 'only other young man
in the college who had been invited, insisted upon it, as he
was anxious to be introduced to the family, and would not go
without me. The company was small and select, and among
the guests was Miss Jessie Stanhope. How I became intro-
duced to her, and why I gave my exclusive attention to her
and how I chanced to accompany h6r home, I do not know,
and did not then, but such was the case~ Whether I danced,
or whether I talked, or who was there, and what was done
three days afterwards, I could not have told. If I left her
during the evening, I do not know it; if I slighted others, I
do not kiiow it; if we were the subject of remark, I do not
and did not know it, nor did I think of such a thing. I only
know that my heart before I[ went there was vacant, empty,
except memories which would sometimes crowd upon me in
my moments of solitude, and she filled it. There was no cx-
citement, no fire in the sentiment she, inspired, but a quiet,
tranquil, satisfied feeling, a revival of the feeling covered by
the grave-clothes that shrouded the loved form of a lost sis-
ter, with an additioAal feeling which I did not understand,
but which added to the pleasure which her society gave me.
She was the only lady except my mother and sister that I was
conscious of ever having thought about. Why in all my evening
walks afterwards I should pass the house at ~hi~h she was

302

303

staying, I never asked myself; and never thought of it. Tier
father was dead, and herself and mother were staying with
her uncle, an old childless widower. The house was a large
three-story brick building, containing four immense parlors
on the lower floor, with a large wide hall, with high ceiling,
dividing the two suites of rooms. The parlors on each side
were provided with folding-doors, which were thrown open on
grand occasions. They were expensively furnished, and ex-
actly alike. The owner was vain of his folly, and fond of
displaying it to visitors. He had been acquainted with my
father in early life, when but a poor man, and was anxious to
make an exhibition of his finery to me, and had often before
my acquaintance with his niece pressed me to visit him and
look at his house, but which I had declined from indifference,
and not from a disinclination to afford him an opportunity of
gratifying his pride. Now, however, my visits were as often
as he could desire. From going once a week, I increased it
to twice, three times, and from that to every evening, and
spent my Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays in the company
of his niece. ,Whether my attentions to her were remarked
by others never occurred to me; I wanted to go, and I went,
and was satisfied when there, and was rcsdess when away. If
I found visitors there, and I could not have her all to myself,
I went away. A month or six weeks from the date of my
first introduction, our intimacy was such that as soon as my
foot sounded upon the pavement, she would leave other com-
pany and bound forward to meet me, and, arm in arm, or, zis
often happened, our arms around each other like brother and.
sister, we would walk the garden, or, seated upon thG stone-
sill under the high projecting portico, the roof of which was
sustained by large tall pillars of the iDoric order, and holding
each other's hand, the swift hours passed away9 Whether
she was beautiful or not never occurred to me; I do not think
I looked at her face-~at 'least I am not now conscious of

802      PLAYING FOR AMUSxMENT.                                                                80$
PLAYING FOR AMIJSEMENT.


304      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.       805

aving over done so. That I had looked into and through
Ii r face at the soul that shone in it, and gave-it life and ox-
p session, a thousand times, and gazed li]~e one entranced, is
tr e; butl never marked or noticed an outward feature. In
t is state of utter obliviousness to every thing but the object
o my idolatry, between seven and nine months glided Un-
c nsciously away. The first thing that broke the happy
re cry was a letter from my father, informing me of his inten-
tion to remove me after the spring session to one of the older
colleges in the Eastern States, and selected Yale. I showed
the letter to Jessie, and the thought of separation pained us
both. We had never talked love, never lighted faith, had
~aever thought of doing so, or that such a thing was common.
It no more occurred to me to "make love to her," in the or-
dinary acceptation of that term, than to a sister or an angel.
Th~.t we were to live and love, and be all to each other, was
understood as a thing of course, and neither thought nor
asked for vows. No promises were given, and none asked-.
i~one were needed. Our hearts were bound by a web stronger
than words could weave. That we wei~e always to be to each
other what we were was a thing of course, as much so as that
a mother would always love and cherish her offspring.
Some time previous to the receipt of the letter, her uncle,
an unjust, capricious man, from some affront, real or imaginary,
offered. him by Mrs. Stanhope, intimated that she had kept
house for him long enough, and she purchased a small cottage
in the edge of the town, with a piece of woodland and a neat
pretty garden attached, into which she and her daughter
went to reside, and were residing there when I received the
letter from my father.
A short time before I left we wandered through the green
woods and culled the wild rose and other spring flowers to-
gether, and talked of when my education would be finished
and we meet again; it would take three years at Yale to

complete the course of study, and three years was to be the
time of my exile. That Ii should b~ back three~years from
the day of my departure was as certain as that I would return
home at the close of my college course.
I prolonged my stay in the village as rong after the close
of the college exercises as I could-o~iving myself only time
to get to Yale at the opening of the session. The day of my
leave-taking at last came. Jessie and I walked the garden
and sat upon the door-step as we had done a thousar~d times
before. In the little parlor I bade good-bye to Mrs. Stanhope.
She gave me her blessing and went weeping from the room.
Jessie walked to the door, leaned her head upon my shoulder,
her long curls sweeping about her face and neck. Our tears
mingled, as did our feelings and hearts. All I could say was
to whisper in a choking voice, "Three years, three years, I
shall be back." I pressed a kiss upon her forehead and tore
myself away. The cottage was situated at the head of an
avenue, a ~ialf or three quarters of a mile long; at the-end
of it I turned and saw her, as when I left, leaning against the
door-facing.
I had consented some time previous to act as groomsman
to a young college-mate upon that ~wening, not knowing at
the time I consented to do so that it would be my last evening
with Jessie and her mother. When I found that such would
be the case, I asked to be excused from serving, but the young
man was of the humble class of collegiate, and I saw that he
was likely to misunderstand my motive in wishing to be re-
leased from my engagement, and I could not avoid wounding
his feelings without a full explanation-which I was unwill-
ing to give-and so fulfilled my promise to him.
After the wedding, I remained all night at the residence
of the bride's father. The next morning a widower, brother-
in-law of my friend, and an inmate of the house where I?
boarded, came running in with great glee, calling out, "A

r

304

305


806

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

letter 'for Mr. Stanley from Miss Jessie I" and handed me the
following letter:
Rose Cottage, Jnly -.
DEAR bRAcE :-Uncle is here, and complains of your not
calling to take leave of him, and I take advantage of his in-
tention to call and bid you farewell in the morning to write
to you and enclose you a dry rose-bud and leaves from the
bouquet of wild flowers last gathered by us; when again we
meet, it can be restored to its companions.
0, how sad and lonely I feel! and what a long, dreary three
years stretch their length out before me! I try and try, but
cannot look to the end! It fades into confused obscurity.
A broad, 'shaded and straight lane seems to open before me as
I strain my thoughts and eyes to the future, but it is short,
and a little beyond it is clouded and confused. 0 that the
confusion would break away and I could look down the path,
the long avenue to the future! You do not kn&amp;w how sad
it makes me. Is it ominous? Kind angels forbid! It is
foolish in me to write thusbut I feel so sad. The fancy I
know arises from the confusion of every thing as I watched
you pass down the avenu* to-day. A film covered my eyes,
and as you moved fartlwr down the avenue, every thing grew
confused. I could see you going, going, going, but all swam'
before me, and I could distinguish nothing clearly. This, I
am sure, caused the distressing fancy which torments me as I
try to look forward through three years of time. I ought
not to trouble you with such things, but I feel all the better,
now it is written. I hope you will not disappoint your friend
by refusing to act as his groomsman, as you spoke of doing
this afternoon. I can understand the sacrifice you make, and
the effort it costs you to act a part in a scene of festivity when
the heart is burdened. I sympathize with you. I judge
you by myself: I would not exchange the pleasure I feel 'in

I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

807

sitting here, thinking of~ and writing to you, for any earthly
good except your presence. I can therefore fully appreciate
the self-abnegation and the kindliness of heart which in-
duce you to suffer yourself, rather than mortify the pride of
an humble friend, by' refusing to take part in his joy.
Must this, indeed, be the last letter I shall write to you
during our long separation? I fear it must be so, for I shall
not like grim old unsentimental professors to see what I write
before it is placed in your hands, and by the rules of the'
college which you showed me; they claim that right. You
must write to me; you surely will find means to smuggle a
letter to the post. But no; that would not be right, and
your honest nature would not. allow you to do what you can-
not do openly, nor would ]I tempt you to do so. We must,
therefore, be satisfied to write every thing in our journals, and
read when we meet. Ii have already begun mine.
At eight o'clock I shall look up at the stars, whose soft
twinkle we have so often watched together, especially the two
we call "our stars ;" at half-past nine at night, I shall write
in my journal, and as the clock striJ~es ten at night, and
seven in the morning, I shall recite my prayers. I know you
will do the same. I shall thus see you reflected from the stars,
and our vision and thoughts can meet and interchange there,
and at the great cathedral altar on high our petitions will
meet, and our love centre in the Source of all love and good!
Uncle calls for my letter. Excuse the blots my tears have
made: I could not help but cry.
Yours ever,
JESSIE.
There were several young ladies and gentlemen present,
of the class most likely to gossip, and, as they were disposed
to regard Miss Jessie as proud, because she chanced to move
in a sphere somewhat removed from theirs-though neither


I

S~8         PLAYING    P0   AMUSEMENT.
higher in the sense the poor t o often regard it, nor esteemed
by her as higher than their own-I felt it my duty so to act
in the matter as to secure 'her from unkind remark. All
clamored to see the letter, and had many remarks and
"guesses" to make about it. I-affected to treat it as no-
thing, and promised to read it to them, if they would meet
me in the sitting-room after breakfast. They did so; and I
pretended to read the letter, but read such a ene as an indif-
ferent person would write, using the excuse she had made in
her letter for writing; and added some trifling request, which
gave it all an air of propriety. They were annoyed to hear
nothing more, and their curiosity disappointed. The hurry
and bustle of departure made it impossible to explain to
Jessie what I had done, and it soon passed out of my mind,
and gave place to the deeper feeling, the consciousness ?that,
leagues were fast 'multiplying between me and the dear obj ~ct
of my love. i~t would be impossible to describe the sadness
which weighed upon my spirits, but it only added zeal to my
firm purpose of study. Travel was not as rapid then as now,
and I only arrived at college a day or two before the com-
mencement of the fall session. The last use I made of my
liberty was to write a long letter to Jessie.
'In the course of eighteen months, my father grew uneasy
upon the subject of abolition; and the college itself being
but a hot-bed of abolition fanatics, he transferred me from
Yale to Princeton, where I completed my 'course of study.
Soon after I entered at Princeton, in a letter received from
my father, he mentioned having received some letters di-
rected to me at Yale, and forwarded from thence to his care,
adding that he would retain them until I returned home,
unless I should request otherwise. I supposed them to be
letters written by some of my old college chums whom I had
left in the West, and thought nothing more of it.
As lhe time drew near when Ii should finish my course

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT

809

and visit the loved of my heart, my anxiety and impatience
were almost uncontrollable. II had learned some time pre~
vious, fron~ a paragraph in a newspaper sent me, with black
lines run around it, that Mrs. Stanhope had rented her cot-'
tage, and removed with her daughter somewhere upon the
Northern lakes. This prevented my writing during my va-
cations, as I did not know where to direct my letters. It
gave me no anxiety, however, as the image of Jessie was
always present; and I knew that upon the third anniversary
of the day of our separation, and at the same hour, when I
should turn into the avenue leading to her mother's cottage,
I should see her, as last I saw her, in her white dress leaning
against the door-facing, looking wistfully for my coming; and
she would bound forward to meet me, as she h'ad done a hun-
dred times before. AAd 0 how I longed to throw my arms
around her, and receive her joyous welcome home!
A few days before the close of the session, I received' a
'letter from home informing me of my father's death. I ac-
knowledge with shanre that it scarcely affected me, so intense
was my desire to be restored to the girl of my heart. His
death, however, made it requisite that I should hasten home,
which I did immediately upon the receipt of my diploma.
I graduated, it seems, with honor, and 'stood first in all my
classes; but I was not conscious of either, nor once gave it a
thought.
My college days passed like a dream, a shadow. I do not
know the names of five of my college-mates, and did not
when I left college. If they, or my teachers, or my books
ever attracted a distinct thought; it has not left its impress.'
I am only conscious of quite an annoyance and a to do, con-
gratulations, etc., at 1~he close of my college - course, but
nothing more.
I found that I would barely have time to get home, and
attend to necessary business affairs, an~d to reach the little


310      PLAYI~TG FOR AMUSEMENT.                                   PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.        311.

village where I left Jessie and her mother upon the longed-
for anniversary. I wrote, the day I left Princeton, a hurried
note to a~ old classmate, who had located in the village to
practice his profession, of the death of my father; and asked
him to write to me, so that his letter would reach me before
leaving home, and requested him to give me any news he had
to impart respecting Mrs. Stanhope and her daughter.
Upon my arrival home, and reading over my father's will,
and seeing so many evidences of his worth and kindness,
and so many things demonstrative of his loneliness, and de-
sire to be united with his family in heaven, and his many
anxieties on my account, and the care he had taken to pro-
~vide every thing for my comfort and happiness, I was re-
buked and humbled; and felt for the first time the real sor-
row of a. son for the loss of a good father. I deeply regretted
that I had not done more to lighten his sorrow. I was aston-
ished and mortified to find, upon reflection, that he had
scarcely been in my thoughts during my long absence,
though I had been the only living object of his thoughts and
care. I eagerly looked into his correspondence with the col-
lege faculty, to see if any thing had been reported to him, of
me which might have added to his sorrow. It was one of
th~ most delicious moments of my life, when I discovered
that, so far from bad reports, they were of the most flattering
and encouraging kind. It was not that I thought I deserved
praise for what I h~d done, for I did not, as I had acted me-
chanically, without the desire of good,~ or the temptation to
do wrong, but solely to finish my course of study by a par-
ticular day. The pleasure I experienced was the conscious-
ness that I had chanced tb act in a manner that gave him
the only pleasure left for him in life. I had, according to
the reports, been most exemplary in my deportment, and suc-
cessful in my studies; and enjoyed the good will and confi-

dence of my teachers, and the affection of my schoolfellows.
It was all news to me; as much so as if it had been written
of a stranger; but, true or false, it made me happy, and
enabled me to kneel without serious self-reproach in the
family burying-ground, where my parents, brother, and sister
lay buried.
I picked up the bundle of letters my father had spoken
of as having been forwarded to his cake from Yale. The
seals were unbroken, another evidence of his kindness and
delicacy. Most of them were from old schoolmates. Only
one attracted my attention: it was a package in the hand-
writing of Jessie. My pulse beat quick with delight as
I hastily broke the seal; but 0! what suffocation suc-
ceeded, when there dropped from it a plain gold ring which
I had placed upon her finger, and a lock of my ~hair which
s~ie had clipped, and worn with her curls, and a few dried
rose-leaves and buc~s! My breath came hard, and the rush
of blood to my head blinded me, and it was some time before
I could see to read. The letter read thus:
HORACE STANLEY, EsQ.:
Sir, I once lov~d you! 0 God, how dearly! But it is past.
I then thought you a gentleman; I know better now. I then
thought you all that was honorable, all that was noble, all
that was generous; but I have been taught better. And 0!
what a lesson, what a lesson, what a lesson for this poor,
weak, trusting, breaking heart to learn! I am ashamed that
you have the power to wring such exclamations and such
tears from me!
I enclose the lock of hair which I once wore and loved for
your sake. I send you the rosebuds and leaves we last
gathered together. Their natural sweetness fled lon~ since,
but love gave to the dry withered things a sweetness far

e 310

311.


312

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

greater than the fresh ones that bloomed where we trod, and
now attract the bee, and the butterfly; but this is gone, and
they are now but thorns and dust.
I have heard of your base exposure of my letters, your
trifling with my dearest affections before a giddy, thoughtless,
vulgar crowd. If it is any pleasure to you to know that you
won my affections, that they were all yours-yours to sport
with and ridicule before the gossips in town-if it is any plea-
sure to you to know that you have humiliated, bent me low
in the dust before~ my inferiors, you are welcome to it. Your
triumph is complete. Ii am bent, broken! I am no longer
the happy, joyou~, but the wretched, heartbroken
J]~ssIE STANHOP2
P. S.-I have opened this to say: Surely my trusting,
happy heart could not have been so mistaken! You can ot
be so base as these people tell me! There must be some m s-
take! If there is, 0 relieve my aching, bursting, heart y
telling me so. It will depend upon your explanation whether
you will ever again hear from JESSIE..
I looked at the date, and saw with consternation that the
letter was nearly twenty months old! By my silence I stood
convicted, before my heart's idol, of all that these gossippers
had said; What must have been her pain as she waited,
mail after mail, for the expected explanation, which, alas, did
not come! And how she bowed down under the conscious-
ness of my villainy, as time gradually removed all hope of an
explanation! My silence itself was an insult, and added an
additional weight to the already overburdened heart. The
thought was maddening. I ordered my trunk to be packed,
and the carriage made ready to convey me to the river, where
I might take the first upward-bound boat. As I was about
starting, a letter was brought to me from the, post-office. It
was from the classznate, I had written to on leaving Prince-

'I

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

313

ton. I opened it hastily, hoping to hear something from
Jessie; it ran thus:
Sma :-I was sorry to receive a letter from you this morn-
ing. Ido not regret the death of your father, as I suppose
he died ignorant of the baseness of his only son.
I will so far gratify your curiosity to know something of
the victim of your heartlessness, to inform you that upon re-
ceiving full assurance of your baseness she sank under it,
and has gradually wasted away, and is now worn to a shadow.
Her mother, grief-wo~'n and sad, will leave with her for Cuba
on the next downward trip of the steamer Elkhorn, which
will be in about ten days, there to die, should she reach Cuba
alive, 'which I very much doubt. In your future coquetries
and flirtations, may the grief-worn image of this pale girl fling
its shadow before you! I was slow, Horace Stanley, and so
was she, to think you utterly base. She hoped, if you could
not explain, you would at least apologize. But no! you pre-
ferred the full benefit of your triumph! Well, you have it!
and welcome be all the pleasure it may give you.
Sad and unjust as the letter was, it contained news, and I
directed the captain of the boat upon which I took passage
not to fail under any circumstances to hail and place me on
board the steamer Elkhorn, should we meet her on her down-
ward trip. The second day I was informed that the steamer
was in sight, and 0, how my heart leaped! How I longed
to meet and explain all, and restore health to that pale face!
The signal-bell tapped, and was answered as we supposed
by the Elkhorn, but the ringing on the latter became furious,
and the wild howl of "Fire !" went up from her by a hun-
dred terrified voices. She became unmanageable in a mo-
ment, and the whole side next to the boat upon which I stood,
satchel in hand, ready to leap aboard, was wrapped in flames;


~14      PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                              1~LAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

and, to save his own boat, the captain was compelled to back
her from the burning wreck. I saw two locked in each
other's arms spring from the wreck, the long locks of the
feebler floated for a moment upon the water, a wild piei~c-
xd~g shriek, and they went down-all I loved on earth! I
leaped madly into the stream, and exhausted every effort to
rescue them, but, alas! the waters of the muddy Mississippi
closed over them, and shut out all hope of explanation or re-
conciliation, in this life. The one only loved, the one only
thought of for three years of arduous labor had gone to her
liquid grave believing me a scoundrel; and that belief had
killed her!\ "If the Everlasting had not fixed his canon
against self-slaughter," I should have cast myself in the stream
and perished with the object of my love.
Is it any wonderr that I stood upon the bank a wreck, with-
out one hope, one aim, but death? Is it a wonder that I
eschewed society, and wore away the grass walking~ncar her
loved remains?
Just opposite here, due west three hundred and seventy-
five yards from the bank, 4h&amp;went down, and right there I
want my remains to go down. It is my request that the rose-
bud that will be found by itself in the casket be pinned to my
bosom, and that my journal, in which are the rose-leaves and
lock of hair, be placed, sealed as it is, in the coffin with me,
and that the coffin be furnished with weights suffi ~ ient to
sink me to the bottom beside her. The ring I give t~ Agnes
for her wedding-ring; it was intended to grace the finger of
a bridQ as innocent, fair, and worthy as she, but it was or-
dered otherwise. She will not fail to wear it.
The silence which succeeded the reading was almost pain-
ful, it was so breathless. It was immediately broken by the
Hermit, who said:
* "You will say I ought to have had more philosophy,
and torn myself away from here, and learned to forget, a~ I

had in the ease of my sister. Perhaps I ought; but 1 could
not: I lacked the resolution. If I could have seen her but
for a moment, and removed from her mind the belief of my
guilt, I should have been satisfied, and my life would have
been different."
As he ceased speaking, Mrs. Clarkson walked to the bed-
side, and kneeling down buried her face in her hands, and
her whole frame shook with emotion. Calming herself she
raised her eyes to his, and said
"And this is Horace Stanley, my only relative, the last of
our house and name
The Hermit put his hand upon her head, ~nd fixed upon
her his stony gaze. Something like a smile of recognition
passed over his rigid features, and he whispered, "A blessing
upon you, Amy, cousin Amy.
After this he lay for some time apparently dozing. Waking
up, he began to talk at random; his mind was wandering.
It was affecting to hear him.
"To-day," said he, "is the anniversary of ~ur parting!' I
am hastening' to see her; it is near the hour~. Here is the
avenue. How natural every thing looks! Ah! did I not tell
you she would be waiting? There she stands, the sweet
creature, where I left her three years ago, with her white
dress and curls. Ah! she sees me! she knows me! she run~
to meet me! She flies! Look! look! she floats upward !'~
his eyes were directed so earnestly in the direction of the
river, that all involuntarily turned to look, and saw~ one of
those strangely beautiful illusions which may sometiriies be
seen in the swamp: a light fleecy cloud, in the shape of a
woman, with long flowing hair and loose robe, floating up4
ward. "I knew you would be waiting, watching for me,
darling. I have kept my promise to you, love !" and held out
his arms as if to embrace herand-sank back, dead!
They had met, and all was explained and all forgiven.


316       PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.                                    ?LAYINO~ FOR AMU5~EMENT.       317

CHAPTER XXXVI.

"A good wife's prayer
Will from the deepest dnngeon climb to heaven's height,
And bring a blessing down."
THE wishes of the Hermit were scrupulously carried out,
and Mrs. Clarkson and Agnes, often after his burial, walked
up and down his old, solitary, well-worn path, talking of his
virtues, his stern integrity, his great courage, and, above all,
of the strange and incomprehensible manner in which he had
served them; and how Almighty God had shown them at
last who he was; and of their great happiness in smoothing
his pillow in his last moments, and that it was not left for
strange hands to perform for him the last sad but sacred wish
of his heart.
On examining his papers, he was found to be the owner of
a large fortune, a part of which was disposed of in charity;
the remainder was given to Robert, to take effect on the day
of his marriage with Agnes. He left a request that Col.
Clarkson should act as trustee for his old serving-man Amos
and his wife, and allow them the use of. the cottage, stock,
and ground, so long as they lived, and at their death it was
to go to Robert and Agnes.
Mr. Clarkson, as winter approached, recovered his health,
and took his family to the city. I-us wife was anxious that
lie should dispose of his residence in town, and make the

plantation his permanent home. He suspected her reasons,
but did not partake of her fears. There was no danger of his
becoming a confirmed gambler, he would often say to himself
-he so detested the character. On his return to Bluff City,
he was beset by his old companions, and, in violation of all his
good resolutions, joined in their games, drinking deeper and
playing more desperately than ever before. He would occa-
sionally dispute and quarrel ,with the rest, and when it was
over and his mind fell back upon itself:, he would feel humili-
ated, and resolve not to yield ao'ain but he had no moral or
religious ballast to sustain him, and human strength yielded
to temptation.
One night, for the first time in his life, he got into a regu-
lar brawl, and was badly hurt. He was borne home, almost
insensible, to his deeply mortified and distressed family; and
for several days after he remained in the house, apparently
in deep thought.
It was a lovely evening in the last of October-one of those
soft , golden fall days, when all' nature sets the heart to think-
ing-when she seems to say with the softest and most plead-
ing voice: Man! look into thyself; see thyself in the falling
leaf; listen to the autumnal breeze whispering mournfully in
the stout old forest trees, scattering their lingering verdure,
and tellin~ of decay. All this Col. Clarkson felt as he sat on
his gallery, and his eye ran over the beautiful landscape,
tinged here and there with the finger of death. He thought
of poor Smith, of Jsaacs, and Orr; he, thought of Blunt,' and
Floyd; thought of what they were when he knew them years
ago-how each had gone back. From these his mind turned
to others whose path of life had been in a different direction:
how worthless one class was, and how useful the other.
In this thoughtful state of mind, 'his eye wandered over
the lovely landscape in search of something to rest upon~
something real and substantial.-.-something beyond the power
4

316

317


0'

818

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

of time and decay. Thus chastened by the gentle voice of
nature, his eye fell upon the church which stood in full view
of his house, and of which his wife and Agnes had long since
become practical members. The beauty of the building had
never struck him before; and looking at it a few minutes in
silent admiration~ he arose, took his hat and went out. It
was the first time he had left die hou e since his affray, and
his wife watched him with a beating t~eart, trembling for the
result of a visit to the clubs in his excited, state of mind.
His steps, however, were not towards the clubs or drinking..
saloons~ He seemed attracted to the vicinity of the church.
He stood without a short time admiring its architectural pro-
portions and lofty steeple, and his curiosity, and a feeling he
could not withstand0 led him into the interior. The gran~leur
and stillness of the place filled him with respect and awe, and
here and there a silent figure, in deep devotion~, made him
inly exclaim: "This is none other than the house of God V'
He felt irresistibly drawn onward, and, in spired by a worship-
ful feeling, he seemed in the presence of the old patriarchs
of the Church, and of the great Builder himself.
Kneeling before the altar was a female 'figure, in deep,~
earnest devotion. She seemed wrestling with Almighty God
for some great want, and would not let him go until he blessed
her. The form: was familiar to Clarkson, and the sight
touched him. It was his true and faithful wife. When she
saw the direction he had taken, that he sought the quiet of
the church rather than the exciting bowl or card-table, she
hastened to pour out her grateful heart in thanks to God, and
had gone in unobserved at the rear entrance. He walked
softly to where she was-kneeled by her side, and said:
"From henceforth, Amy, thy people shall be my people,
and thy God my God." He had found something real-.
something his' whole life had needed---something beyond the
power of time or decay-something more than human strength

PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

819

to assist him in resisting temptation: he had seized upon the
only thing which could save him; and there, before the altar,
the husband and wife prayed together for the first time, and
mingled their tears with their prayers. It was a 'sight for
saints and angels to rejoice over. The long years of anxiety,
of prayer, and watchfulness, the loving ~,trust,. the patience
and Christian forbearance of Mi~s. Olarkson, how fully were
they repaid in that happy moment! As she rose from her
kneeling posture, the clergyman, an elderly, venerable man,
observing her peculiarly happy countenance, looked anxiously
a moment at Mr. Clarkson. He saw it all,,and said, in kind-
est tone,
"Take courage, my daughter. The husband of such a
wife can never be lost."
Two weeks after, Mr. Clarkson was regularly received into
the Church; and the same day, Agnes and Hamilton were
united in marriage.
On each Sunday ~fter, Col. Clarkson might ~iave been seen
worshipping with his family an example for all good fathers.
All trace of former ~lissipation had disappeared from his now
fine intellectual countenance; and he walked among men a
noble specimen of God's creation.
Three years have since passed. Robert Hamilton has con~
tinted to riso in his profession, winning golden opinions from
* all classes of people. Vaughan sleeps by the side of sweet
Alice St. Cloud. Their graves are covered with the sai~ie
vine, kissed by the same moonbeams, and watered by the tears
of the same heart-broken mother, who still pays her daily
visit to the grave of her child. James Blunt has committed
forgery, and was saved from the penitentiary by the exertions
of Robert Hamilton. His wife, Pet, has obtained a divorce
,from him, and returned to her father with infant twins.
The other "girls" are all well' married, and most excellent
and exemplary women. They attend the same old unfash-


~82O    PLAYING FOR AMUSEMENT.

jonable church, and their husbands, though riot of their own
faith, often say to each other, "There can be no harm in a,
religion which makes such devoted and dutiful wives;"
Piper is a wiser if not a better man: his nose droops more
than formerly, and so does Gilpin's tail; but he does not
desecrate the Sabbath as he used to, or grumble at Betsy
about her religion. Nickols goes hawking about as usual,
his countenance showing the effect of long dissipation and
excess. Miss Clara Corbin is married to the Louisiana law-
yer; and Mrs. AJorbin is looking for a suitable match for a
younger daughter.
It is Sun day morning. Standing near a certain noted
restaurant, might be seen in one direction Col. Olarkson going
to church with his family; in the other, two men reeling
down street, endeavoring to hold each other up~ "Hic-
why, IDoc., if you do n't walk steadier---hic---i '11 let you fall
.-hic----on the pavement I"
"Why, Blunt, you '11-hic-make me break-hic-some
of these windows-~-hic. If you don't-hic----walk steadier-.
hic-4 '11 let you fall in the gutter.
Tilt they go. It is Dr. Floyd and Blunt. They still
drink for good cheer, but another pays for the liquor; they
still ~play for amusement, but have to borrow a dollar in order
to count the game.
TIlE END.

.4,

4

20


  
             
         
       
   
