
    ----CITATION----
        Wright, D. Thew. Mrs. Armingtons' Ward; or, The Inferior Sex .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8377
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Mrs. Armingtons' ward; or, The inferior sex 
            
                  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD;  OR, THE INFERIOR SEX. BY D. THEW WRIGHT.  "WOMEN ARE ALL VERY WELL IN THEIR SPHERE." UNPUBLISHED WORKS OF AN EMINENT AUTHOR. BOSTON: LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS. NEW YORK: LEE, SHEPARD AND DTT TTlNGfHAf. 1874.   Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, BY LEE AND SHEPARD,- In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington. STEREOTYED AT THE BOSTON STEREOTYE FOUNDRY 19 Spring Lane.   TO MY BROTHER, REV. WM. BURNET WRIGHT, PASTOR BERKELEY STREET CHURCH, BOSTON. I write your name here, remembering the many hours of fierce, critical strife, waged in all pleasantness, over the pages that follow. Should Fortune, haply, award them most distinguished literary success, -even should such success be deserved, - still they would be unworthy of the inscription I thus venture, without your knowledge, to place upon them. Whatever may be, my compensation is complete, when I recall the. loving interest you have taken in the Book, because it was Mine.      CONTENTS. [ CHAPTER                 PAGE I. THREE OFHEM ...*. -         9 II. MRS. ARMNGTON........ .. . * *.  23 "I. JACK . .................. .-   32 IV. PROFOUNDPHLOSOPHY.   . *  43 V. PHLOSOPHY EVEN MORE PROFOUND.   60 VI. HOME LIkE. *la**aI         57 VII. TRIALS OF NERVE ........     68. VIII. THE SEED IS SOWN .....  . . . . 76 IX. EMLY REFLECTSO. .**.  Ca .    88 X. THE DEAN .  ... ............   93 XI. HSTORY . ........ .. ......   103 XII. LAW  ..  ......... ..    . 117 XITT PROFANITY ............ -     *129 XIV. MESSRS. CHARLES AND BiB COMMENT UPON THE FOREGOING ........ . ...  136 XV. CHARLIE'S NARRATIV.   ........ 146 XVI. THE MDNIGHT ADVENTURE.  ...... 154 XV11. THE JUG-HOUSE.        170 XVYIl. DIscOVERIES. .............. *    184 XIX. SHOES. .....     ..       196 XX. THE POLICEMAN'S STORY ...  ....  202 XXI. ME AND MCEAND .   ............  210 7   8      -   CONTENTS. , XXII. EMLY's FIRST EXPERIENCE.. .*  .... 223 X1 11. MORE EXPERIENCE .... . .  . *  . . 236 XXIV. "SPEED, MALISE, SPEED!"  . . .  ...  245 AXSV. OLLA PODRIDA. .   . . . ........   252 XXVI. EMLY IS SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF EMO- TIONS ......            266 XXVI. WHO CAN IT BE?    . .. .. .  . . . 274 XXVIII. MRS. ARMNGTON AND EMLY GO HUNTING. . 284 XXTX. FAIRIES, AND MANY WONDE FUL THNGS. . . 297 XXX. MRS. ARMNGTON TELLS EMLY.. . ..    312 XXXI. "O'ER T-HE GLAD WATERS OF THE DARK BLUE SEA." ......   .   .    320 ,        .   MRS. ARMNGTON1'S WARD. CHAPTER I. THREE  OF THEM. "PLEASE, gimme fi' cents, to buy a loaf of bread!" She looked as though she was about nine years old, though she might have been fifteen; thin, pinched, weird little body, evidently hungry. The two young men passed on, absorbed in con- versation, not'heeding the piteous wail for charity. Indeed, it was a common form of address in the thronged thoroughfare along which they were wend- ing-their way, and perhaps they had become hardened to this kind of appeal. "Please, gimme-." Something in the tone seemed to strike one of them, and he stopped. "Rob, look at that little thing!"  Then both went back to see the child. If she did' not appear half starved, it was because she was more nearly wholly so. Her face was thin, and would have been white, except that it was not clean. Her arins, which were partially bare, were gaunt and bony, with none of the rosy plumpness of healthy childhood. In the matter of clothes, she had on a tattered dress- and; 9   10   MRS. ARAMI]GTON'S WARD, OR what appeared to be a fragment of old carpet, which served as a shawl. She was barefooted; on her head was what had once been a boy's straw hat, but to call it a hat now would be the merest trifling with lan- guage. Thus fortified against the inclenmencies of the tseason, she was standing, this December night, on the steps of the largest hotel inll the city -a place familiar as a resort for beggars. It was about seven o'clock, one of those half sleety, half rainy evenings that are in- dicative of the worst possible humor in the weather. People were hurrying to their homes after the day's work was done; they were hastening to their own fire- sides, where all was warm and cheerful, where their own little children, so joyous and happy, would climb on their knees, and greet them with loving kisses. The bright lights of many such firesides beamed out upon the dark air, and fell upon the shivering form of the little wanderer, as she stood gazing in at the windows, wishing that she could go in, and get warm. She had so often been cold, and for so long a time together, she thought, if she could get into sofme place where she could be warm again, she would be happy. We are wont to say that habit hardens the poor, so that cold ceases to distress them as it distresses those who are every day well clad, who dwell in comfortable man- sions, who retire in the wakes of warming-pans, and re- fuse to leave their beds until the fire is made in the furnace. They become inured to cold in the same way that they become accustomed to hunger. Their scanty food supports life for about half the number of days their Creator originally intended them to live, and they "be- come used to it" by dying, say, an inch in every twenty-   ? -  THE INFERIOR SX.        \1\ four hours. It is true that the pangs of hunger, when repeated and protracted, in a measure deaden sensibil- ity; but it is by deadening the vital forces, and so the poor become inured to cold because the life-blood is slowly chilled until it freezes and stops. "Please, gimme,' &c. It was a stereotyped phrase, and, as she began again, one of the young men asked her where she lived. She indicated a locality not fa- miliar to her Auditors, and the elder of the two pro- posed to go home with her, and- see if it was a case of real distress. So they went; and they went a long way. They came to a quarter of the great city where were the abodes of squalid poverty. Alleys narrow and filthy; houses miserably poor, hardly fit habitations for well-to-do rats. Into one of these wretched tenements they followed the child, until she came to a room in a damp cellar. The walls were moist; the floor was full of holes, where the boards had worn through, or had been broken up for kindling-wood; there was no furni- ture but a bench, several boxes, two or three broken stools, andd in one corner- an old mattress with some scanty bed-clothes. -Here, the child said, she lived, and here also were her brother and sister, both younger than herself. As she came in, the children began to clamor for something to eat, but, seeing two strangers, they quickly subsided. They had been sitting in an old-fashioned chimney, over a fire so small it looked -inconsistent where it was,-the fireplace was so large, and the fire so little. They were cowering by the fad- ing embers, and were as abject specimens of misery as the most highly wrought imagination could conceive. The two young men stood, gazing at the spectacle before them. It was something new. Their lines were   12   MRS. 4RAIINGTON-'S WARD, OR cast in pleasant places, and this was a revelation. Their conceptions of life had been that people were generally comfortable. In some undefined way they had sup- posed that the benefits of existence were distributed with a reasonable degree of fairness. But the scene before them shocked and stupefied them. "Well!" exclaimed the elder brother, ado you ex- actly understand, Rob, for what particular purpose a beneficent Creator brought these little creatures into this world with the surroundings that seem to have been prepared for them?" The question involved such a profound philosophical inquiry, embracing, as it did, a general investigation into the groundwork of society, as well as a scrutiny of the ways pursued by the Great Disposer of events, that, without any prefatory observation, it assumed a phase of the grotesque; and in spite of the sensation akin to horror that overcame him as he contemplated the wretchedness before him, the younger companion could scarcely suppress a laugh. "Suppose we reserve any discussion of the decrees of Providence until wo get out of this. This foul at- mosphere sickens me, and if these children stay here, they will die of outright and most disgusting want. I am going first to get something for them to eat to- night, and intend they shall not remain in this hole another twenty-four hours, if there is a police station in the city, or charity in the land. Come, let us go!" Telling the 1children they would soon be back with some -supper for thenm the young gentlemen sallied forth on their mission of mercy. The children were three -Emily, her brother Jack, and little Nance, the youngest. The latter could scarce-   THE INFERIOR   SEX.      13 ly talk plainly; she used a childish gibberish, intelligi- ble to her brother and sister, but Greek to every one else. When the gentlemen had gone, and the surprise occasioned by their unexpected appearance had in a measure passed away, the three gathered closer to the fire; and three elfin specimens they were,-that is, if elves habitually appear in scanty raiment, and are very dirty. They were certainly not attractive in any im- aginable particular; they were the commonest clay that composes humanity. They sat by their poor fire, and shivered. The wind whistled without, and the rain pattered on the roof--pleasant sounds, heard in com- fortable -houses, but quite otherwise when it is the abode of poverty. The little boy, Jack, began the conversation. "Em, aren't you glad we're going to have something to eat to-day? I war afraid you wouldn't bring us home some- thing, cos I've been out- all day, and never got a thing." "Yes,", said the girl; "nobody gave me anything, and I didn't expect you'd have any supper to-night. But I reckon the gentlemen will bring us something." "I wonder what it will be," said Jack. Broke in small Nance, "O0, let's ilalk about good things to eat, I'm so hungry l"  So they fell to discussing the various kinds and quali- ties of comestibles, each stating in turn the particular desire of his famished soul. There is often a great satisfaction, even among those better circumstanced than were these little wretches, in supplying material wants by a" contemplation of those desirable things that make lif pleasant. Per- haps it is only for the gratification that imagination affords, but certainly there is solid comfort in the   "   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR amusement. Emily, who was more advanced in life,  and consequently more mature in her views, thought  she could be entirely'satisfied with a piece of beef' steak and some-potatoes. Jack's soul yearned towards  buckwheat cakes; and little Nance was clamorous onX the subject of jam,-not that this had ever been aX constant article of diet with her, as but once in her J life had she partaken of its seductive sweets, when  some kind lady, in bestowing her charity, had given the little thing a large slice of bread luxuriously laden with the sweetmeat. Since then Nance's idea of bliss  was jam. Her notion of heaven was a place where  small children had as much jam as they wanted; and,  9 as a matter of course, when she came to announce her  bill of fare for the evening, it was sinmply her favorite viand. And so they sat, each telling what they would most like for their evening repast, and conjecturing  what the reality might be. Although this may seem a childish pastime, there is really nothing more comforting for grown people un- der like circumstances, than to discuss with earnest- ness what they would do themselves. The next best thing to eating a piece of pie is, to wish you had it to  eat.   -      -     ^  "I wonder what they will bring us," said Jack. "C I don't believe it will be as much as we all want; " and then, in a musing, contemplative way, as though he was considering the proportions of some immense and impossible problem, he continued, "I should like to have as much as I could eat every day, for a week. Golly! wouldn't I be a stunner?"' Thelre was a gran- I deur about this idea that seemed to overwhelm Jack. It was new to him, too. He had often imagined what'   THE INFERIOR SEX.        15 he could do at a single square meal, if the opportunity were offered him; but a succession of such for the in- terminable space of seven consecutive dlays was some- thing too big for Jack's small mind, and he could only conclude his soliloquy by an expressive, "Whew!" "That would be nice," said Emily, "if we could have as mulch as we wanted without my going out to beg for it. It's so hard to beg! People always seem to think I'm cheating them, just as though I wasn't really poor. O, it is so hard to be poor! I ask 'em to give me work; but they won't, and then tell me I ought to be ashamed to beg. Just as if I wasn't!" Thus the burden of their conversation was their ma- terial wants,-not the highest order of subject, but the mind generally dwells on that which is of the most immediate importance to the body. Those in comfort- able circumstances can afford to give their attention to  higher things, but it is not matter of reproach that the poor starveling regards his next meal as the greatest event in life. Even little Nance was as eager in her imagination as the elder ones. She sat upon an  old candle-box, with her heels tucked up under her,  and was lost in the glorious anticipations that were so shortly to be realized. Her eye danced with delight when the young men returned, as they shortly did, with a basket of substantial provisions. The- children  were too much subdued by long-continued suffering- o manifest their intense satisfaction in boisterous demoia- 1 strations, but the wistful glances they cast, as the con- tents of the basket were produced, indicated more than language could express. For that royal supper there was cold chicken, and bread and bdtter, and biscuit, and even the cold potatoes were regarded as a delicacy I':   16   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR of the first order; and when the children were told to help themselves, such Was their awe at the magnificence of luxuries that it was some time before their presence of mind had sufficiently returned to enable them fully to comprehend the situation. But when they had re- covered, following the promptings of their kind friends, they made an attack upon the supply before them with a spirit of determination and unity of purpose that bade fair to carry everything before it. The fare was spread upon a bench, as there was nothing nearer a table in the room, and the three famished juveniles went to work with zest. Emily stated that she had dreamed the night before, about going into a gentleman's house, and being in- vited to dinner; and just as she was about to sit down to a sumptuous repast, she awoke. She further ob- served, she didn't; intend to-be cheated that way a sec- ond time, and should eat just as fast as she could now, for fear of waking up again before she had enough, and finding that she was dreaming still; and she asked Jack to pinch her just to see if she really was awake, and if it really was chicken and bread and butter, as she wasn't quite sure.. So Jack gravely but vigorously pinched her, and, with his mouth very full, observed that if it had been Nance dreaming, she'would have dreamed jam. Probably there never was the same amount of eata- bles before that gave as large a quantity of genuine comfort as did the spread that night in that miserable hovel. If the solitary chicken, who made his first ap- pearance in respectable proportions, and at the end of the entertainment displayed nothing but a number of bare bones, could have realized in life what happiness   TIrE INFERIOR SEX.       17 he was to confer upon being eaten, he would, no doubt, have been amazingly gratified at finding himself a fowl. But there is one certainty that accompanies, only to dampen, all human joys, and that is, they have an end. In process of time the children were satisfied. They then proceeded to wash the dishes, which was done by sweeping the wrecks of the repast from the bench into the fireplace. "Now, Rob," saiZl the elder, " what are you going to do with these young ones to-night? If they are left here, they will freeze before morning; the thermometer Is now below zero, and growing colder." "Suppose we take them home with us," Rob replied. "What do you imagirie mother and the governor will say to that?" "O, Charlie, you know what the governor will say, and then what he'll do. He will call us apes, and tell us that all beggars are thieves, and have the small-pox; and then he will go to work, and make them comfort- able. As to mother, you know, the poorer any wretches are, the happier she will be. That's just where she is." "True for you, Rob; I have lived with the old folks longer than you have, but your diagnosis of the case only confirms my suspicions. So let us take them holne." And they started. Before they left the hovel, Char- lie asked Emily if they had any clothes they wanted to take with them. She went to a box in the corner, which Charlie proceeded to examine. He tumbled its contents out upon the floor, and contemplated them a moment in mingled surprise and disgust. 'I say, Rob! Suppose mother should happen to find 2 ,  '   -18   MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR the likes of this in her rag-bag, do you think she'd have a fit?" Rob went and examined the pile, and turned the things over with the toe of his boot with much the air of a man who was inspecting a pile of snakes ol half a bushel of vermin. "I'll tell you what we can do with this, Charlie," he said, as he kicked the collection into the fire. "There!" "Cor-rect!" observed his brother, as the flames seized the garments, and slowly consumed them. "There is," Rob declared, "an adjective in the Eng- lish language that should never be used-to ears polite on account of its offensive nature; but on this occasion I am justified in violating all rules of elegant literature, and stating that, considered as clothes,--that is to say, as anything in the nature of covering for the human 7  form, - those things are simply, positively, unqnalified- ly, and absolutely nasty/"  Then turning to Emily, who was witnessing the destruction of her wardrobe in unaffected surprise, he continued, ",There is nothing more of that. palticular description of dry goods that you are desirous of preserving just now-is there? For, if so, we will endeavor to take care of them in an en- tirely appropriate manner." Emily merely stared in wonderment; and after ran- sacking the room  to see if there was really anything that had not better be left to the rats and mice, and finding nothing, they told the children they were about to take them to their own home. Lifting little Nance in his arms, Charlie sallied forth, while Rob took the hand of Jack, and, with Emily, followed after. The night was dark and. very cold, and the wind went to the marrow and bones of the poor little out-   THE INFERIOR SEX.        19 casts. Charlie, as he went along, stumbling over the rough places and slipping on the ice, beguiled the way by telling stories to his little companion, who snuggled up under his overcoat with all the confiding simplicity of childhood. He told her how he would take her to a warm house, where she could sit by a good fire, and make herself comfortable, and where she would have plenty to eat, and such good things, too. 4"And jam?" interrupted the youngster. Charlie, more with an eye to fancy than truth, in- fobrmed her that they had jam three times a day, and partook largely of it at each separate repast. But this was too much for even little Nance's credulity, and she lapsed into a silence that was unbroken until they reached their journey's end, when she seized the first opportunity to inform Jack, confidentially, of the as- tounding information she had received. Charhe had not overstated the conditions in some particulars. The house was large and commodious- one of those ancient homesteads at once cheery and lappy. The train was marshalled into the kitchen, where the " boys," as they were termed, landed their charge, who gazed about them in awe, as the children of Israel probably did when they first crossed over Jordan, and beheld the promised land, with its milk and honey. Leaving them there, the young men went in search of their parents, to report. They found their father in the parlor, reading. He was a man well advanced in years, of rather strict notions, with as decided weak- ness on the subject of his own children. He was not generally of a susceptible or emotional turn of mind, but in his own family he could be surrounded and   20   MRS. ARMINGTON'S IZARD,.OR brought to terms of the most ignominious and abject surrender, whenever the boys took the field for that purpose. He was not at all conscious of being thus overcome and captured; on the contrarly, he ever strongly maintained his position, and nailed his colors to the' mast. But a flank movement usually carried the day, and enabled him to succumb without exactly knowing how itwas done. In the main he was rather stern in his demeanor, though not so in his feelings. But he did have an aversion to beggars. . He reasoned that beggars were necessarily idlers, and idleness is the parent of sin; it -wAas quite natural, therefore, to ar- rive at the conclusion that all who begged were at all times prepared to commit high climes and misdemean- ors. Hlis general orders were, when one of the class came to the house, that they should be watched while on the premises, as their object certainly must be to pilfer, or to avail themselves of' such information as would facilitate an attempt at some midnight burglary, which they were undoubtedly contemplating. It made no difference who the individual was, or how innpt his condition might be to the practical execution of such i felonious designs; it was all one to the old gentleman. He had considered the matter maturely, and there was no moving him from his convictions. If it was a woman, she was doubtless watching an opportunity, when the family -were not on the alert, to slip a few silver spoons under her shawl; or maybe she was in league with the cook. Or if it was a man with a wooden leg, who knew that it was a real woodea leg? Since the war began, there had been a great number of wooden legs; and hardened criminals had practised their wicked devices by, going around with one leg I   THE INFERIOR SEX.        21  ' ! strapped up for the express purpose of deceiving the commhnity. And even if this were not so, could they not have comrades without wooden legs? The boys therefore fully expected an explosion when the "governor," as they sometimes called him, under- stood the interest they had taken in the little children, and that they had actually brought them to the house. So they went into the parlor where the old gentleman was reading, and stated to him what had been done., ":So you have brought some beggars home with yoti!" he observed, after hearing Charlie's story. "Did you bring any thieves?" "Well, father, if you would go and see what pitiable objects they are, you would hardly think they were capable of any mischief. They are too young for wick- edness, and are simply forlorn and helpless." "But how do you know but that they belong to some gang of organized villany, and have only sought this method of getting into the house in order to open our doors to their confederates, who may cut all our throats before morning?" "In the first place, father, they did not seek any- thing. Rob and I broughlt them here, and the idea of their being parties to any such deep-laid scheme as you suggest would be ridiculous, if you did not make it re- spectable by entertaining it." "Yes, that is always the way. Your professional beggar is an adept at deception, and can impose upon wiser heads than yours." "Well, father," joined in Rob, "what shall we do with them? Turn them out in the street to perish, as they certainly would before morning, or let them stay here?"   22   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR The old gentleman mused a few moments, and then suddenly spoke up: "Rob, go and look at the ther- mometer." Rob went out on the back porch, and returned soon with the intelligence that the mercury was four degrees below zero. "That is pretty cold, boys--isn't it? That is,"!e added, hastily, as if correcting himself, "if the children are very small." "Rather severe, father," continued Rob. 'And as to there being any danger from nocturnal intruders, you know, Charlie and I can sit up all night, and watch. He has a rifle, and, with my two pistols, we might probably be able to protect the premises against: the. confederates, when they come, provided they are no bigger than those they have sent allead." An almost imperceptible twitching about the mouth, and a sudden and increasing attention bestowed upon his paper; on the part of the old gentleman, led Rob to wink at his brother with a very wicked and undutiful eye, unconscious of which, the father replied, after a pause, -- "Well, well! I suppose your mother will back you up in this freak, for if there are any whose condition is particularly undesirable, they are just the kind that suits her proclivities. For my part, I never did see the use of beggars.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        23 CHAPTER II. MRS. -ARMNGTON. As her name was being spoken, the lady referred to entered the room. She was of medium size, heavily set, and about fifty years of age.. Her hair was gray, and was not fashionable, in that it was her own. Her face had a singularly benevolent expression, though in her dark eye, and about the set of her mouth, was an indication of firmness that upon occasion developed it-- self into strong-mindedness; but this was chiefly in works of goodness. She was widely known through- out the laige city as foremost in all deeds of charity,- not in an ostentatious or forth-putting whay, for she de- spised public proclamation of well-doing. Her right hand studiously forbore communication with her left on the subject of its various undertakings in, behalf of others. She performed her part in her own way, which was a quiet one. She did not, as a general thing, at- tend sewing-circles for the relief of the poor: she went and relieved them. If the ladies of her church held a meeting to discuss ways and means for doing good, she did not usually participate: she knew how to accom. plish that object without discussion. Organized sys- tems of charity, with presidents, and vice-presidents and multitudinous official existence, which mostly en- tertain people with a distant contemplation of good works, attracted her irreverence. But when a cry of   24   MRS. ARMNGTON'S, WARD, OR distress reached her ears,--and to that call she slept with one open,--times and seasons were never out of place, and she stood not upon the order of her going. Some people called her odd. Much she cared. It did not sensibly interfere with her going about the streets, day or night, just as she pleased. She would wear a hood of black felt, which was to the purpose, if the pulr- pose were comfort, not display. A long, woollen cloak, something like a military surtout, came down to her heels, which, with the rest of her feet, sported over- shoes of heavy cloth, keeping them warm, and enabling -her to maintain her position on those places where the wicked are said to stand, though most folks fall. Thus equipped, and with a pole about five feet long, carried in all sorts of weather, and with which she poked people-who stood in the way, she was a match for any case of poverty or suffering; and she managed to find them out somehow, with an ease -that was per- spicuous. The nose she had for misery was equal to that of a trained hound on the scent, and- nor hunter 'ever enjoyed his game more than she, when she had fairly run to earth a quarry of unmitigated wretched- ness. Nor did she content herself with any half-way measures; she went the full length. She loved to find those so low and miserable that others would not help them; these were special objectssof her regard, and for the reason that they were utterly forsaken. There was  a positiveness and determination in all her ways thtat bore a resemblance to sternness, though the reseim- blance was faint, fobr she had a real mother's heart, anid merely laid down the law, because it was a good thing to be laid down, though she did it in such a way as not to hurt anybody. Still the household understood that,   THE INFERIOR SEX.        25 when her views had once been stated, acquiescence was the part of discretion. Her boys were the pride of her life. They had been brought up with all the care that a rather full knowl- edge of the world and its ways was likely to induce on the part of their parents. The mother was a woman of rare cultivation. She had read of history, poetry, and general literature, what would have justly entitled her to a place among belle-lettre scholars. But it was all for her sons. She had herself taught them to read, taught them all they knew, until they had arrived at- that time of life which requires attendance upon schools and colleges. She had read them poetry until they were familiar with the English classics, and the names of the best authors of the mother tongue were like household words. She had taught them more his- tory before they were twelve years old than most people learn after that age. Her way of inculcating knowledge was effective. If, in the course of her reading, she came across anything which struck her as remarkable and worthy of being remembered, she would take her book in hand, and go about the house until she found one or both of the boys; whereupon she would descend upon them, taking them captive, and then and there would read aloud for their especial benefit the matter in ques- tion. It made no difference what they were doing, or how important their occupation at the moment might be. They had to stop and listen. If they were play- ing ball in the garden, she would suddenly appear, with a volume of Allison's History of Europe, Scott's Mar- mion, Plutarch's Lives, or Rollin's Ancient History, and on the instant, and- without preface, would pro- ceed to business. At such a moment nothing could   26   MRS; ARMNGTOr'S WARD, OR distract her attention. If the house should be on fire, she would probably have concluded the passage from her favorite author before giving the alarm. As ler taste was unexceptionable, her sons were thus early made familiar with the best thoughts of the best men; and as forty books may be read to find one worth reading, and as the great waste of an ill-directed education is in time spent sifting the bushel of chaff for the single grain, they had unconsciously made great advances by simply being guided in the right way. Brought up thus at home, surrounded by such in- fluences, their characters were moulded by the purity' and integrity of her own. In all their school days, away from home, at college, that crucial test which makes or ruins young men, with the chances in favor of the latter, they preserved that high sense of honor, that manly independence, that kept them aloof from all that was mean or low. Although her later days were happy, she had had her sorrows. Who that lives to the age of fifty has not? There were lines about her mouth, and in her still fair cheek, that were not from age alone; but, they only chastened and beautified a face that no one could look upon without that spontaneous outhurst of affection that goes forth towards those of whom at first sight we say, "What a lovely old lady!" The beauty of age surpasses that of youth, as the glory upon the distant- mountain-tops surpasses that around us, though it is the same sunlight that illumines the valley where we stand: about us is the hard- glare of earth, but the splendor that is afar is of the beauties of heaven.   THE INFERIOR SEX.         27 The shock that had been so terrible to her had oc- curred many years ago, had silvered her hair before its time, and the deepened -furrows showed that the blow had fallen with fearful effect. Perhaps the remem- brance had made her more loving and tender towards young children, as for them she always evinced special regard. It was her own experience that, though they are the light of their parents' lives, and the sweetest hope of' the soul, yet there is no moment, from cradle to grave, -wlen they do not occupy and possess the heart with the gravest anxiety. In all the first years of childhood, when a mother's watchful care must supply the want of it in the Iittle- thoughtless ones; when slight imprudence, which it is almost impossible to prevent; when wet feet or change of dress may bring serious, perhaps fatal con- sequences,-there is no instant's respite from sleep- less vigilance. And when these perils, that forever environ the "wee toddlin' bairns,' are passed, and those of more mature life begin, there is no path in which the boy, whose promise is so bright, may tread, that is not full of snares and pitfalls; and the gentle girl, whose light laughter rings like fairy bells, in her innocence and happiness does not know how untiring, through all the vicissitudes of life, and how ever present in its care, is a mother's love. A sword is forever hanging, sus- pended by a single hair; and what breeze may come, what jar may cause it to fall, can never be known. Mrs. Arrnington was in the sitting-room when the coming of the three children was announced. She had been living in the past. The image,of her daughter had come back to her, for it was on this very night, yea'rs   28   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR ago, that the fatal messenger entered h'er house. It all rose to view, each minute incident of those awful -hours. As she sat, though she struggled against it, she could not keep it away, though the memory was torture, and she lived over again those scenes that had wrung her soul with agony.  In the morning the child was bright and haplpy, and played at her mother's knee in all the vigor of health. Her cheeks were plump and rosy, and she sang and prattled her pretty baby talk all day long. Even when they had put her to bed, and after she had said,- \ "And if I die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take,"-- she went sweetly to sleep, and anxious love had no thought that the noiseless wing hovered near. But her soft slumber was broken by that hoarse, brazen cough, in whose trumpet-like sound the parent's heart knows the harbinger of death and woe. Ah, the mother knew it but too well. She felt her blood chill and her flesh creep as she heard it. A presenti- ment seemed to seize her, at the outset, that there would be but one result to the struggle that began so suddenly and with such violence. For ten fearful hours it lasted. From the first, Death clasped his icy fingers upon her throat, and murderously began slowly to strangle her. The cruelty was relentless. Had disease wasted by degrees the vital powers, and so gradually brought the sufferer low, it would have seemed less appalling; but in all the fullness of youthful life, with the blood bounding joyfully through the veins, and the bloom of health upon her, to be suf-   THE INFERIOR SEX.        29 focated, as though the bow-string was tightening about her neck, was too horrible. Medical skill rendered all the aid at its command, but remedies were of no avail. Through all the time of this mortal strife the child lay upon her mnother's lap, struggling, gasping for each breath. She tossed her limbs, and stretched them, till they became rigid, with that violent muscular energy that accompanies the sense of suffocation. The avenue of life was closing slowly, slowly up. The mother saw the-fearful end approach, gradually, but' inexorably. Frantic in her grief, she implored of tho e about her if there was not something that could save her darling. But the icy fingers only tightened their clutch upon the tender neck, and held it like a vice, as in fiendish exultation, prolonging misery that was only hopeless. In that room, through the still night, the clock marked the moments that were already numbered, and the struggle went on, as the little form writhed in agony, pleading, while voice was left, not to let her choke to death. How helpless they all seemed! How cruel to leave the tiny creature to wage ineffectual war against the grim destroyer, as. the icy hand still retained its hold upon her throat! And when utterance was gone, and she could only cling to her mother, and imploringly turn her eyes upon that dear face, how fearful her sup- plication, in mute terror, that sh'e might not strangle I They plied her with very powerful drugs, they -plunged her in ice-cold water, hoping the shock might loosen the clutch upon her life; they performed that operation only resorted to in the height of despera-   830  2MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR tion, and made an incision in her throat, that she might breathe; but it was in vain: the icy fingers only tightened their hold, as she struggled and writhed, with every muscle of her body strained to its utmost tension, gasping for air-for the breath we draw so easily, so freely. , But afterwards the violence of frenzy ceased, she began to grow quiet, her mouth and eyelids twitched, her face turned purple, and, as the morning sun looked in upon that night's horrors, it lit the golden curls with a brighter hue, and the face, and arms, and hands, as they lay crossed upon the still breast, were cold, and hard, and white --whiter than snow. The icy fingers had done their savage work. Although the violets had bloomed for many seasons, this sorrow was sacred, too sacred ever to be recalled, at least in spoken words; but the unseen spirit of the child hovered in the house, and was ever near the mother's heart. There was one room, which was the family sitting- room, where all the members of the household were wont to gather, and spend much of their time while at home. Like the rest of the mansion, it was furnished with all that taste could suggest or wealth supply, though its appointments were more with a view to domestic comfort than was the case with the elegance which reigned in other apartments. There was a sewing mnachine, near which stood the mother's work-stand, where she spent the larger part of her waking hours in busy industry. A library of fine selection adorned the walls, fi'om whose rich treas- ures father and sons gathered daily stores. A small table, with a backgammon-board, another for chess, and   THeE INFERIOR SEX.        31 still again a card-table, showed that amusement was not foreign to the cares of life. In front of the fireplace, upon the corner of the rug nearest the work-stand, was a small rocking-chair; It was made of wicker work, wrought in curious shape, and of varied colors. One leg and rocker were broken, so that it could not be further used, as a child's weight would have crushed it to the ground. Upon the upper round of the back, where a little golden head had often rested, was a tiny yellow curl, tied with a blue ribbon. From this' spot, on the corner of the rug nearest the- work-stand, the little chair had not been moved for many years. When the room was swept and dusted, it was always done by the mother herself; and her hand alone ever touched the little chair upon the corner of the rug nearest the work-stand. Reverently she lifted it when her morning task required, carefully she re- placed it when her work was done, where the sole daughter of her heart had left it, when her little feet had ceased to patter on the floor, weary, so weary of the rough and thorny ways she had only begun to tread. As she sat in her accustomed place, and gazed upon the little chair which stood upon the corner of the rug nearest the work-stand, she gently murmured, - "There is no fireside, howsoe'er defended."   32 -    MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER III. JACK. "MOTHER, the boys have brought three little found- lings here to our house at this time of night. What d'ye think of that?" "Well, father, I don't see as they could well have taken them to anybody else's house - could they?" This view of the case did not seem to have occurred to the old gentleman, and he was considerably embar- rassed for a reply. He resumed his newspaper, as thoughl not desirous of further controversy, while Char- lie nudged his brother, -as much as to say, that if the governor went to taking on airs, with the re-enforce- ments that had appeared on the field, they might make summary disposition of his pretensions; but as no in- clination was evinced, on the part of the head of the house, to resume hostilities, the mother, with a nervous agitation of manner, for her thoughts had been busy with the retrospect, demanded,- "Come, boys, where are your proteges? It is very late, and children ought to be in -bed by this time of night.", "What do you think, mother, we had better do with them?  We brought them  here on a venture. We picked the oldest one up in the street, and went with her to what sloe called her home; and such a vile den! They were absolutely starving, and freezing, into the   THE INFERIOR SEX..        33 \ bargain. I told Rob it was inhuman to leave them there, and where to take them we didn't know; so we brought them here." "Of course, Charlie, we will keep them to-night. For all your father takes on so abott beggars, in fact, you know, he is as kind a man as ever lived. It's just as well to let him growl, if he wants to; it's only his way of vindicating his conscience." In the kitchen they found the three strangers thawed out into a becoming condition of awe at finding them- selves surrounded by such unexampled circumstances of' greatness; but when the lady of the house came in, her kind appearance and manner reassured them, and little Nance at once made a demonstration as though she wanted to kiss her. "You see, mother, they hardly look as though they had just come out of a bandbox," said Charlie, seeing that she was rather staggered at the apparition before her. "No,? she replied, "not exactly,-at least, with my present notions on the subject of bandbox. Go up stairs into they bath-room, and turn the hot water into the tub. Child," she said, turning to Emily, " were you ever washed in your life?" The question was a little sharp and peremptory in its tone; and Emily was frightened too much to answer; and the lady, correcting her manner, said, "Come, come, toad, we'll put you all in the tub, and scour you well; and then you'll have a good night's sleep. If you went to bed that way, you'd get lost in the mud." So she marched the two girls off to the bath-room, giving the boys directions as to a certain wash-tub in the kitchen, which they set in order, and, making little 3 ,    Jack strip, they put him in. Then, for the space of half an hour, such another splashing and spluttering, and rubbing and scrubbing, Jack had -not experienced in the whole course of his earthly career. This accomn- plished, - and the undertaking was not insignificant, - all were stowed away in trundle-beds, and went to sleep, little Nance to dream of jam for breakfast. In the morning they haldly knew one another in their clean faces and the clothes in which their kind fieind had robed them. After breakfast they were summoned into the sitting-room. The first object that attracted little Nance's atten- tion was the small rocking-chair upon the corner of the rug nearest the work-stand. She walked around it, gazing upon it reflectively, with eager eyes and evi- dently a strong desire to capture and appropriate it, as ofher own goods and chattels. Mrs. Armington watched the pantomime with interest. The child did not offer to touch it, but her admiration was at a respectful dis- tance; and she finally retired to another corner of the room, with a large-sized sigh, as though understanding, by some singular mesmeric influence, that the firuit was hallowed and forbidden. The mother, who was already busy in making what appeared to be little garments for little folks, bade the children be seated by the fire, and, while she went on with her task, engaged them in conversation, with the purpose of finding out something of their antecedents. By dint of ingenious questioning, she drlew out of Jack, who was the most talkative, considerable of his history. He was a bright boy, and hlnd been knocked about to the amount of his share; apd he narrated his experience so that the lady learned that his father had enlisted as '    ' '.\   a private in the army. The boy had run away, and followed after the regiment during a whole campaign. "Why! How did you manage it, Jack? You must have had a roughr time of it," said his listener. "Yes," he said, "it was so sometimes. When they broke camp, I got in one of the baggage-wagons, and hid among some bags of oats and things. Then we went and went all day, and at night, when they stopped, I got out to get something to eat, for I was hungry. And I was afraid somebody would firid me, and send me back; so I pretended like I was a boy living in the neighborhood, who had just come around to see the soldiers. Then they didn't notice me to speak of, and when I asked 'em for something to eat, they wanted to know was I secesh; and I didn't know what that was. You see, the secesh, they was the fellers as come shoot- in' round at us fellers." Jack always spoke of the army as '"us fellers." His small but patriotic soul had expanded, and he had un- consciously identified himself with his country's cause. And though he was unable to comprehend very much of what was the subject of difference, yet from hearing its merits discussed around the camp-fire, he had im- bibed the views and feelings of the National side; and partaking of the pride which filled the heroes who were successful, he had in some way a general notion that he had rendered signal service. In describing some of the stirring scenes through which he had passed, he in, variably used the same form of expression, to the effect that, upon such an occasion, the colonel of the regiment ordered " us fellers " of Company D out upon a ;scout, and " us fellelrs" were out all night; or General So-and-so   86   MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR- ordered " us fellers" of the brigade to go and take such a battery, and "us fellers " went and did it. This kind of statement from a mere child seemed absurd. How much of what he told he had actually seen, or how much he had heard and repeated until it came to seem to him a -reality, of course there was no knowing, but his tales were generally as though from an eye-witness. "You see, after I had been with them three or four days, and was so far from home, I thought they wouldn't send me back, and I let father see me. First he was going to lick me, and then the cap'n said I shouldn't stay with them, as I would be in the way and bother everybody. But the cap'n, he had a dog he liked ever so much that went with us everywhere, and I told him I was as good as the dog; and the cap'n, he thought maybe that was so, for he was a mean dog. Then I said I could help around, bringing wood, and making fires and things, and I wouldn't eat much; and so he said he'd let me stay. Me and the dog, though, got to be good friends after a bit, cos he wasn't much of a dog no ways. lie war a cross dog,-'t least, he was cross to everybody but me,--and the soldiers always used to kick him when the cap'n wasn't look- ing. But he wasn't never cross to me; an' that's some- pin' cur'us 'bout dogs. You take and punch a dog, and keep a-punchin' of 'im day and night, and that dog, why, he won't never take to you no ways at all; but ,you make up to him, gentle like, and pat him, and then see how he'll waggle with his tail. I've seen that tried with jnore dogs! You feed 'em, and be good to 'em, and they won't come sneaking round, biting you when yer ain't looking.      .n   THE INFERIOR SEX.        87 "After the cap'n was killed, his dog took to me, cos nobody else 'd have him; and the rest of us fellers wanted to kill him, to get him out of the way. But I begged for him, and told them, how would they like to be killed just because they was dogs? and they said they wouldn't like it any. So they let me have 'im. When the nights was cold, he used to crawl into the tent, and cuddle up against me; and he was just the warmest dog for such a little one! "The cap'n, he was killed at Stone River. O, he was a fightin' man, he was! The fellers used to say he wasn't afeard of the old boy himself. I didn't know then what boy it was, for there wasn't tany others in the camp but me; and when I asked who it was, they said, O, it was a chap the Rebs had over there with 'em all the time. I used to go out, and try to see 'im, but never did; cos ef he wasn't any bigger 'n me, I'd ha' tried to lick him. "Well, when the battle there was over, us fellers went out to pick up the wounded, and bury the dead. We didn't know the cap'n 'd been killed, though some of 'em said they see him fall; and we hunted and hunted, and couldn't find 'im. Next day I went out with the dog, and thought I could find 'im if he was on top o' the ground. We went all over where the fight was. You never see a battle--did you, lady?" To which Mrs. Armington replied that her usual vo- cations had not led her into that line of business, and the lad resumed :- "Well, it's awful! You never see legs and arms layin' around so loose; then men are dead, and cut all up, and their heads busted, and some's layin' down, peaceful like, as though they hadn't had anything hmurt ?   38   MRS. ARMNGTONiS [WARD, OR 'em. Some'll be sittin' up, and doubled up, and twisted every wich way, with their faces shot to pieces; then there's blood all about, and dead horses, and cannon- wagons, broke all to little bits, and if an earthquake had got drunk, it couldn't make a bigger sn ash. "Wen I went out to look for the cap'n, I went all round over the field everywhere; and the dog, he knew I was after somethin' and I guess he thought who I was after. For he hadn't seen his master for a whole day, and dogs is cute 'bout them things; and he weult to huntin' too, and he nosed about; and by-and-by he went off, and I didn't see himrt for a long time. Then I heard him howlin', mournful like, and well I went and found him, he was at a long trench where the Rebs had been buryin' our fellers, -that is, it wasn't much of a bury, for they'd just dug a long place like, and pitched 'em in every wich way, and throwed a little dirt over 'em, but hadn't covered 'em; for there was legs and arms stickin'-up out of the ground, and at one end they'd put up a board, where they wrote like this: '125 dead Yanks."'  "The wretches!" exclaimed Mrs. Armington, indig. nantly. "To  treat our boys as though they were brutes!" "Yes,? went on Jack, " they always called us Yanks, our fellers said, cos whenever we got a chance, we 'yanked 'em ;' and we did, too, most often. Well, the dog, wen I first found him, he was layin' down by a hand wat was stickin' up, which he was a-lickin' of it, and then he'd howl. I never leeld sich a howl wat he give, and I didn't know wat was the matter of 'inm; and wen I called, he wouldn't come at all, but just laid down there; and so I  goes back to camp, thinkin' he'd 9     P   THE INFERIOR SEX.        39 come wen it war night. But he didn't, and I went back to the same place nex' day, and there he was yit, a-layin' by that hand as was stickin' up. An' I tried to take blold on 'im, to pull 'im away, 'nd he growled, and made like he'd bite me; 'nd I went and told our fellers, and they said it war thelcap'n; and they went and dug where that hand was., and, sure enough, it war the cap'n. Now, wasn't that queer for jest a dog? An' he was an ugly dog, too, and they called him Pug." "Yes, Jack, that was singular in a poor dumb ani- mal," said the old lady, as the boy paused to allow her an opportunity to express her admiration for his canine friend; "but animals are oftentimes more faithful to us than those who are gifted with a higher intelligence. But do you say you went with the army all the time?" "No, not all the time," he resumed; "I follered" along till father died. Sometimes it was purty rough, too, and I used to wish I was back again. We went all through Kentucky and Tennessee, and there was lots of 'em used to get sick, and we'd have to leave 'em behind in the 'ospitals.  There was one little feller- jest a boy, he was- hadn't no business to be there, for he wasn't not so very much bigger 'n me, he was; he'd been wounded, and before he got over it, the fever took him,--it used to take 'em all, mostly,--an' he war sick a long time, and I used to tend on 'in a good deal. Towards the end he talked about goin' home, and seein' his mother; but I knew he wouldn't never go. One night I was sittin' by -him, and it was very late. It was a-rainin' and a-lightnin', and he sat straight up in bed, and he hadn't been able to move so much 'as an arm for nigh on to a week; but he riz right up, and that sort o' scared me; an' his eyes was as bright as l   40   MRS. ARMNrG TON'S WARD, OR never saw before, but his cheeks was white. Every- body else was asleep but rue and him, and it was so dark and lonesome I was afeard as I could be. But lie says, says he, 'Don't you be afeard, Jack. I'm jest a-goin' home to-night. I just bin up to lead-quarters, and got a furllough, consekens of my wound, and I'm goin' to start purty soon. You git my knapsack, Jack, and help me on with my clothes; you see, it isn't far to Maine, and if I walk purty pealt, I kin git there be. folre mornin'. I know jest how I'll go up the lane, and astonish them wen they see me. I kill see the light a-shinin'- out of the window every once in a while. There, that's it!' he says. 'That's it, Jack! That's the light of my home wat I'm goin' to.' But, you see, I knew he was wanderin' like, for it was only the light- nin'; but wenever it flashed, he says, says he, 'That's it, Jack; that's the light of my honme wat I'm goin' to!' Then he laid back in the bed, and talked to himself; and I heard him say softly, which he war gittin' weak- er, ' Yes, mother, I'm comin'! It's a long ways home, and I'm so tired! but I'm comin' to you, mother. I've had a hard time in the army, and war most too little to go along; but they say I war a good soldier, and done my duty, and you needn't be ashamed of your boy, mother. I'm bad hurt, but I kin walk so as to git home, and see you, and father; and the children once more.' "When the surgeon came in nex' mornin', I told 'im all what he'd bin sayin' about goin' home; and he looked at 'im, felt his pulse, and said,' Yes, he's got his furlough, and gone home.'" Jack stopped, as he noticed the old lady had hei head turned away from him, and was bending over hei   THE INFERIOR SEX.        41 work as though she failed to see the stitches quite- so well -as a few minutes before. Then she took- off her spectacles, and wiped them, but still her eyesight seemed unusually impaired; and when she spoke again, her voice was somewhat husky. ("The poor little fellow was shot in battle, I suppose? What a quantity of sins those rebels will have to an- swer for! It's well the Lord is merciful and long-suf- fering, for there are a great many sons, Jack, who went away with our armies that never saw mothers again." "Yes, lady," he returned, " my mother was alive wen I went away, but wen I got back, she was dead and buried. I was sorry for that, for wen I started, I never said good by, but jest left her. Father'never knew she was dead. Hle was killed at Lookout Mountain. He wasn't killed, but was struck, and died a little while after. A minie broke his arm, and he came to the rear, holding up his broken arm with the other. He had to walk a long way before he found the surgeon, and he couldn't cut it off till nex' day, and it got dreffle sore. At first we thought he'd git over it, but he didn't. He took sick, and then the fever came, jest as it did to all our fellers. Then afterwards I had to come back home, and it was a good ways; but I rode in waggins, and on horseback, and sometimes went afoot and every wich way. But I got along, and folks gave me things to eat, so I didn't have much trouble. But wen I got home, I found the girls alone, and nobody to take care of 'em. So I used to work wen I could, runnin' er- ran-ds and sich, and pickiri' up a little money once in a while; but sometimes we had to beg, and I hate that. Beggin's mean, and I'd rather go hungry. I couldget along, if it wasn't for the other children."   42   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR "Why, what do you think you could do, Jack, if you were all alone?" said Mrs. Armington. "O, I could make a livin' some way," he cheerfully replied;. "and if I could only go to school, and learn somethin', I'd like that first rate." "(Maybe we will see about that one of these days, Jack." Mrs. Armington had long consultations with her husband upon the subject of the children's future. Her disposition was to take charge of, and bring them up, but she faltered over the idea of bringing outcasts into her own family. Mr. Armington was also averse to this, and yet it was a subject of serious debate. The lady urged that the father of the orphans had given his life in the cause for which her own children must have yielded theirs, had the last emergency required. She was interested in all that pertained to the soldiers; for, during the dark days, she was forever fostering, encour- aging, leading those great works which made the women of America as conspicuous for their charity as were the men fortheir patriotism. After great deliberation, however, it was concluded to place them for the present in an institution where their associations would be desirable, and where their time might be spent with advantage to their own im- provement, but to hold such relations to them as that Mrs. Armington could resume control whenever she desired.   THE INFERIOR SEX.         43 CHAPTER IV. PROFPOUND    PHLOSOPHY. "YES! that is my question. What were these youngsters brought into the world for? Here they are, poorl; miserable, with no apparent purpose in life, but that of suffering. They have no friends, and with nothing before them but starvation, their lives bid fair to be one unmitigated wretchedness. Now, what is the point of it all?" Thus discoursed Mr. Charles, shortly after the night upon which the story opens, as, with Rob, he sat in their room solving the great problem of human exist- ence. Rob. "Perhaps, Master Charles, you don't see all there is in it. I have noticed, as a general rule, that though things look sometimes rather mixed, yet in the long run they come out right side up with care. It has been authoritatively stated that there is a Divinity that handles a scientific broadaxe and shapes matters out of most untoward logs. That is not the exact quota- tion, but you can fix it to suit yourself." Chas. "That's all very well too, but it is assumed that matters and things are conducted upon great gen- eral principles, that are never at fault -never make a blunder, and that operate in uniform ways. That being so, we ought to be able to understand, at least once in a while, what is going on right aroundus.   "   MRS. ARMNGTON'S W'ARD, OR "We can see why some people are permitted to live: they are of use to themselves or to their friends; and even if worst comes to worst, there are individuals whose mission it is to serve in the capacity of ' fiight- ful examples' to society, to warn people, etc." Rob. "Somebody or other, I believe, says,' The worst use you can put a man to is to hang him;' and it isn't a very high order, of destiny. But I don't know, Charlie, that we are called upon to account for the ex- istence of everybody we happen to meet. Perhaps they might themselves find it difficult to give a satis- factory explanation, and why need we bother our heads about it? A fact is befoie us, and that ought to go for something in its own justification. There are plenty of folks that you can see no use for, and doubtless they return the compliment by seeing no use for you. "But don't let us get to talking philosophy. You're very good company, when you don't take on one of your wise fits, and go to being profound; then I'm floored. It is the most ineffable misery for me to be compelled to think. My opinion is, there should be a law forbidding the use of our mental faculties. That's what's ruining everybody. It's ruining the country. Everybody in America is dying with apoplexy and paralysis. There is nothing like the deep damnation of their taking off. All owing to their great minds. They work 'em so hard, first thing you know they bust , all up. "You'll go that way, Charlie. Look out, old boy! In. tellect is a fearfuil thing to have! Worse than measles. I'm aftaid you've got it bad." And he spread himself out upon the lounge, making ,   himself comfortable.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        45 Chas. "Come, Rob, don't go to sleep; I want to talk. What you say of me is very true; the immen- sity of my brain is of course conceded. As to your- -self; if you insist upon it, I'll admit you haven't much sense; still you have a way sometimes of sticking pins into bubbles, that is about as good as if you had a good deal." Rob. "Want me to stick one into you? Think I can do it."- And Rob rolled over on his side, cocking his eye lazily at his brother. Charlie's head went into his tobacco drawer to conceal a snicker, and he com- menced industriously filling his pipe. Chas. "But honestly, you know, a fellow can't be going along all the time, and seeing things turn up this way and down that way, developing all imaginable queer predicaments, without stopping once in a while to revolve them in his mind, and speculate upon them. Certainly we are rational beings." Robb. ' Yes! we are rational in a certain sense of the word. But men are often quite irrational too." Chias. "I look at it in this way. Of course I have, everybody has, great confidence in the existing-order of things; but sometimes, I confess, I am floored, and the hard facts of human life take me right between the eyes in such a way that my understanding comes up groggy." Rob. "Counter on the facts then." Chas. "How do you mean? Rob. "Just this. If you tackle your facts, as you call them, boldly, nine times out of ten you'll find they don't turn out as stubborn as you think. Some won't be true, some but half understood, and the balance but. lame and impotent conclusions."   l46   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR Chas. ." Now, what do you say to this? One would suppose that when wants were created in humanity, there would at the same time be furnished adequate means to supply them. For instance, here are three little, miserable beggars. They have all the appetites and necessities of the race, and are turned loose upon the face of the earth, as though, with regard to every- thing else, they had been absolutely forgotten." Rob. "How is that about sparrows and things, Charlie? I believe you read it more than I do." Charlie shook-his head as though he didn't exactly see the way out of it. "May be," said Rob, " you think it didn't help the birds any, merely to see 'em drop." Chas. "Does seem as though it ought- to come in some way so as to break the fall a little." -Rob. ("So it would, if sparrows were the ultimate end of creation. But they ain't, nor the three little beggars, nor you nor I. Now put that in your pipe and smoke it." "Fact is, Charlie, you poke fun at me because I'm frivolous, as you call it, and rate me for never being serious, and all that sort of stuff. Did it ever happen to you to think that we are not very palticularly large ,  atoms upon the face of the universe? And what's the i -^' use of trying to be oxen when we're not more than frogs, and hardly that. Just now you're in a taking about these youngsters, Don't this thing happen all the time? Don't poor miserable unfortunates come intolthe world every day? and because they're wretches at the start, what signifies, that they are to stay so? You fobrget the blessed privileges of the American   T RE INFERIOR SEX.       .47 Eagle, and that every boy may become President of the United States." Chas. "Yes! and not amount to much, if he does, as Presidents go; but that's off the question. Here's the point.- It may be, with regard to those who grow up to mature age, that compensation may be found for the misfortunes of early life. "e who listen with credulity to the whispers of fancy, and pursue with eagerness the phantoms of hope! who expect that age will perform the promises of youth, and that the deficiencies of the present day will be supplied by the morrow, may attend to the history of Rasselas, Prince of Abyssinia, or may invest largely in the future, if so desired. But suppose we hadn't found these children when we did; they would have frozen to death that night -wouldn't they?" Rob. "Beyond a doubt." Chas. "Now, then, what is the use of it all? They might just as well never have been born, and a great deal better, for then they would have escaped a vast amount of unnecessary wretchedness." - Rob was beginning to get interested in the conversa- tion. He had turned, and was lying on the couch, rest- ing on his elbows, with his chin in his hands, and smoking vigorously; he stopped his brother with the remark- Rob.' "But they didn't die- did they?" Chuas. "No! because we " Rob. "Well, but if they didn't die, it puts a stop- per on that hypothesis; now don't it?" Chas. "Yes; but suppose they had --" Rob. "And suppose George Washington had been a U rVIIVIVLSVIrrVV 1 UC1 hLVJI   48   MRS. ARM'NGTON'S WARD, OR monkey! then what? One thing at a time, if yoi please. "In point of fact, they are in the land of the living and altogether likely to remain so. But, however i might have been, the probability is, that whatever hap pened would have been justified by results. If then had died as you suggest - What's that chap's namt that was hung over here, the other day? I "It would have been much better for him to have died in infancy, young and lamented, and so saved his re spectability - wouldn't it?" Rob got up to light another cigar, and as he wa, turning it round in his mouth, and puffing away, with the match in his hand, in broken sentences he resumed "That's the way mankind (puff) solves this kind of riddle (puff, puff). There's one of your sparrows (puffj had his fall broken (puff), broke his neck too; didn't it? (puff, puff, puff). Now, if he'd gone down early in the action, without any attempted interposition of the kind, you'd have said it was extremely rough." Chas. "O, that's only playing upon words, and I don't see as you throw any light upon the matter." Rob. "Don't want to; don't intend to; couldn't if I tried. You want to have everything settled, and ex- plained and determined by a' foot rule. Now, I don't know as your foot rule is big enough. It may be suffi- cient for some purposes, but it don't follow that it can fill the bill for all." Chas. "It's the best measure I've got, and what am I going to do about it?" Rob. "Put it away." -Chas. "And abandon the field?"   THE INFERIOR SE0YX.        49 Rob. "By no means. Try some other tack. In the lexicon of youth, there is no such word as- Your pipe's out; fill her up."- Charles obeys directions before resuming the intel- lectual controversy.     , 4   50   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, -OR CHAPTER V. PHLOSOPHY EVEN IMORE PROFOUND. Chas. " here did you get this tobacco?" , Rob.  "It's some of a lot that was smuggled over tlhe border." Chas. "4 Then I suppose we're violating the laws of the land smoking it." Rob. "Certainly; that's what makes it so good. The revenue laws are got up for the purpose of instilling this great truth into the hearts of the people -' Never buy anything you can steal.' But go ahead; I was teaching you mrnorals and religion a minute ago, and if you stop, I backslide; so gee up, Jerry." Chas. "I see what your notions are.  They all come down to the old saw, whatever is, is right. Now, it is not enough to put off sensible men with platitudes like this, when it is as patent as the biggest nose on the smallest face, that it is just as wrong as can be." Rob. "And upon the other hand, it may be as you look at it. You know people have two eyes, that is, most well-regulated people. You are also familiar with the fact that they leave lately discovered a new disease for that organ. Wise men are always discovering something. If you get a new flower, there's always a new bug for it, and invention'is the order of the day. "Now, it is ascertained there is a certain defect of structure, or disease, or what not, the effect of which is,   THE INFERIOR SEX.   51   that the person afflicted does not see objects at the same distance with both eyes. Shut one, and you see it; open it and shut the other, it is gone." Chas. "So you think that both eyes are not open?" Rob. "That's a question you must answer for your- self. I don't know;, they're not my eyes." Chas. "But they are the best eyes I have, and the only ones." -Rob. "Still they may be out of order, and you not know it." "Las. "Then what am I to do?" ob. "See a physician. That is, talk to a sensible chaD like me, who'll tell you squarely that it's all in your eye." Clhas. "Then, according to your notions, these youngsters have each of' them a destiny before them." Rob. "Well! Why not? They're all smart, and the oldest is keen as a brier." Chas. "But she's only a girl, Rob." -Rob. "Yes, and if she had been a boy, with as much wit, she would have turned out an accomplished bur- glar, or expert forger, or something of that kind, and would have brought up in the penitentiary; but being only a girl, you see, the probability. is that, with mother on her side, she will be something useful. "Of course, however, this is but conjecture. As we now stand, I don't think we are called upon to solve the mystery which so troubles you, neither do I think we could do it if we tried." Chas. "Why, then, are we given brains and underl standings that are certainly craving these solutions? going about like the dove, without finding a place to rest its foot?"    52   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR Rob. " Simply because we are waiting for the win- dow of the Ark to open and take us in. All the flying we can do ain't going to turn the waters back and reveal the depths, and we might as well be content to wait." Chas. " Now I rather like that Rob. Somehow, you do have a way of putting things, that is real good." Rob. "Of course!  Always do it." Chans. "Besides being so complacent in recognizing your mnerit." Rob. "If I didn't myself, I couldn't ask anybody else to - could I? Now I'll tell you, Charlie, what's thh matter with you. You think you have too much meit, a good deal too much. You talk a great deal of pop- cock about brains, etc., being given people to under- stand things, and things won't be understood, and you go off in a tangent, finding fault, and say the machine is got up on wrong principles. Don't you see that if the intelligence were sufficient, the riddles would be solved? There's a difference, isn't there, between the intellect of a child and of a man"? Easy possibilities to one are abstruse problems, perhaps absurdities, to the  other; but if you wait long enough, it will appear that it isn't the machine in which the screw is loose." Chas. "But you musn't expect people to sit down and wait in this active, busy, restless world." Rob. "Of course not; for Satan finds some mis- chief still, etc. The point is, don't expect to find out everything all at once. Your learning would be too vast; you'd know all the bears ever did." Chas. "How's that? 9 So Rob stretched out-upon the couch, and spun his yarn, as follows:- That delightful Dutlchman, Heinrich Heine, or if not    THE INFERIOR   SEX.      53 he, some other charming person, whether Dutchman or otherwise, tells the fable about the bears. "The bears, you must know, are a race of beings of the highest order of intellect; that is, Dutch bears if it is Heine, other bears if it is not. In the Royal Academy of Bear Science, the profoundest philosophical inquiries and discussions are matter-of daily occurrence, and questions, whose ponderous importance would at once crush the human mind, are handled by the fellows of the Royal Academy of Bear Science with a deftness that would astonish anybody but bears. And though these things are done all the time, the continued strain upon the mental powers of the animal produces no disastrous effect. There is no softening of the brain among bears -an affection showing, as they claim, the weakness of the human intellect, and its inability to cope with the great subjects that involve fate and destiny. "Tle first postulate among the bears is, that the high- est class of mind goes upon four legs. "The wider the base the more lofty the pyramid can be erected, and in order that the intellectual centre of gravity may have broader opportunity for swing without upsetting, bears have been provided with a good foundation. The mental centre of gravity is a problem, the heights of which human reason has not attained. lMan has thus far only been able to apply this idea to things of . the -material world, but the bears have carried the, in-- vestigation to the borders of the infinite,' and a little mite beyond. "It is well known, even to men, that there is a certain point in a body, which -being supported, the body will stand upright, but if the line of support falls outside of the area of support, the whole thing comes down with /  .  . .;   54   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR a smash. Now, although man has been unable to dis- cover it, yet the same rule holds with regard to the moral nature; and the bears, by their superior powers, have been able to find and locate the precise centre of gravity of mind. This being definitely ascertained, it is, of course, perfectly easy also to ascertain the-ex- treme limits to which mind can go with safety to itself, and at the same time with entire confidence in the accuracy of its deductions. And as the area of support is so much larger in four-footed animals than in man, it is plain to see llow much farther from the perpendicular the centre of gravity of mind in bears nay go, than in the hulman race. And the perpendicu- lar, being the initial point of wisdom, according to the beai's, it is evident that the limit of philosophical in- quiry is in proportion to the area of the base. H"HHowever unintelligible this process of reasoning may be to the narrow apprehensions of human beings, it is entirely satisfactory to bears, who do not hold them- selves amenable to any but co-ordinate or superior intelligence, if the latter exist. "It was once a mooted question among the bears, whetler or not they were self-existent, and the causa- tive entity itself, or whether there was any other great first instance to which the universe and its cir- cumstances were referable. "The leading minds among them, if such can be where all are ahead, have long since arrived atthe conclusion, that there never was occasion for anything but bears; and as to there being any such thing as a higher order of intellect, the thing need only be stated to be absurd, to bears. There is so much base, the idea is absolutely preposterous.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        55 "But the bears have long been troubled to know why some of the inferior animals were created, and man has particularly bothered them on this bead. They can understand why mules and pigs, and jackals and hy- enas, and such things, are, for in all four-footed existence they recognize the centre of gravity of mind. And in the creation of some bipeds, such as fowls, they find an extenuation in the fact that they can eat them broiled chicken in the spring, and livers of geese, being a favor- ite dish among bears. But as to the human race, who have' no object in life and no base to speak of, not being desirable, roast or broiled, from the fact that they are generally flavored with tobacco, they have been much perplexed, and think that the great first bear who made all things, must either have made a mistake, or been on a spree, when he set the ape up on end and cut off his tail. "They argue thus: We have- watched these creatures ever since they were set up on end, and we see that their whole lives are spent in getting something to eat, and clothes to wear, and houses to live in. Now, we, when hungry, just walk out in the woods and find acorns and roots, and if we want meat, catch a fish or bird. We have no tailors, and lie down under a tree and go to sleep. Thus we have abundant leisure for philosophical pursuits, to which we are entirely adequate on account of the, base. But these men, with their circumscribed faculties, absorbed as they are in devising means to satisfy wants, which with us have no exist- ence, how can they add. anything to the sum of creation, as it came from the hands of the first great bear? Upon the other hand, the purpose of bears is self- evident. Without bears what could ever be known of   56   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR the most important problems of time, and of that blessed hereafter to which bears without discrimination go? "We read the books and newspapers of mankind, and from the discussions and controversies that are con. tinually going on, we see how the human mnind is groping its way along in darkness and obscurity, with- out knowing to what results its inquiries tend; but upon that higher plane of intelligence which we occupy how-puerile all such things seem! "There is, however, among men, a class of mind that has set many doubts at rest, and has approximated more nearly to a knowledge of the beneficent designs of the great first bear; and these are more like us, although there is no possibility of their being able to fathom the depths of the, inscrutable, until they die and become bears. "For ages man has vainly been endeavoring to grap- ple with the simple idea of eternity--an idea in its whole length and breadth elucidated in the primers we give to our cubs. They have exhausted their ener- gies, and wearied their wits endeavoring to compre- hend it, and have then 'given up in despair. It never seems to have occurred to them that it is simply Time with the end cut off. "So all these speculations, when submitted to the scrutiny of a higher intelligence, become vagaries. We alone possess that higher intelligence, and understand all things. We are bears, and wisdom shall die with us, owing to the immense area of the base, and we made the base." Chas. "Rob, that's a great rigmarole of nonsense." Rob. "About as great, Charlie, as the balance of our conversation."   THE INFERIOR SEX. CHAPTER VI. - AOME LIFE. UNAWARE what a grave subject of reflection they had been to the boys 'their parents, or thb bears, the children had thus far enjoyed unalloyed happiness. Thev had never before keen so warm for so I g a time together; they had neir had so much to eat, and never had eaten so large a quantity in the same space of time. The days rolled by in'what was to them a quiet bliss. Much of their time wa] passed in the Armington man- sion, where, from goinri backward and forward, they soon became domesticated. After the early days of wonderment passed, they made themselves comfortably at home in the grand house of their benefactress. They went there as they chose, staid as long as they saw fit, and came away when they liked. This by degrees, as they became more and more accustomed to the kind lady who had taken them in charge, and found how lovable she was, and what tenderness she felt for their forlorn position in life. They were pleasant, interesting children, especially the eldest, to whom all, young and old, seemed to take a special fancy. She possessed unusual intelligence for her age. Perhaps poverty had sharpened her wits, and taught her to rely upon her- self. The boys soon became fond of her, and she often- times performed important service for them. These two young men had been brought up to-   - 8hF  MRS. ARMIMGTO N'S TWARD, OR gether in constant companionship, and their thoughts and tastes were so similar that it was seldom they dis- agreed on anything to the point of serious contention, There was one subject, howrever, upon which they al- ways and invariably quarrelled. In the garden was a croquet-ground. This was the apple of'discord. On the Armington premises was an Eden till the wickets were set up. Why this should be so with regard to this most popular of all out-dool games cannot be explained; but although it is the most fascinating of amusements, it is never played extensively in the bosom of the family that it does not result in chronic dissension and civil war. So the boys, when they got into a particularly fierce row over the game, called in Emily as an umpire, to whom they stated the case., She used so much good sense and judgment in cutting these gordian knots, that she soon became a necessary adjunct. They taught her to handle the mallet, with which she was not long in becoming expert, so that their daily pas- time was upon the croquet-ground. Charlie and Rob kept iup their wrangles with one another, though it was a little remarkable that the girl never became involved except as an arbiter. Every afternoon the family went out to witness the exercise of skill, father with his newspaper; mother with knitting-needle or book. Upon such occasions the idiosyncrasies of Mrs. Ar- mington sometimes displayed thelmselves. The game had been unusually protracted and ex- citing. Rob had gained one, Emily one, and in the third Charhe had a clear lead, with only two wickets to go out, and the rest far behind. By consequence the   THE INFERIOR SEXY.         59 customary conspiracy was formed, and Rob and Emily were putting their heads togeLher, and sending Master Charles spinning over the field in every direction, al- though by so doing they themselves failed to advance a peg. It now  got to be irritating, and tflings were getting hotter and -hotter, when Mrs. Armington ap- peared, moving in solid column from the house upon the croquet-ground. She had a book in her hand, folom which she was readiig aloud as she advanced. Rob saw her coming, and nudging Emily, pointed to her and to his brothel; who was- making another futile at- tempt to finish his two wickets. The graceless young gentleman giggled. The good lady came forward de- liberately upon the ground: with her eyes fixed upon her book. In the most entire state of forgetfulness, planting herself squarely over the particular wicket Charhe was trying to make, she invoked the attention of mankind as follows :- "Boys, I want you to listen to this. You, too, Em." And she began. ," Woe to the youth whpom Fancy gains, Winning from Reason's hand the reins." Charles had paused, withl mallet suspended in ail; to give a decisive blow, and stood in that attitude thinking the interruption would be but morentary. He soon saw this was delusive, and, dropping his stick, he exclaimed, rather impatiently, - "Come,-mother, we all know that by heart; and please wait till this game's through. I've just got Rob and Em in a tight place."' "Yes, I know, Charlie, but just hear a minute," said Mrs. Armington. ?               60   MRS. ARAIIINGTON'S WARD, OR ' ; And woe to those who train such youth, And spare to press the rights of truth, The mind to strengthen and anneal, While on the stithy glows the -'" "Mother, dear! you are exactly where I want to play. Won't you move, and let the game go on?" asked Rob. "O! am I? Excuse me," replied Mrs. Armington. "' steel! O, teach him, while your lessons last, To judge the present by the past.' " And she moved from her position only to encamp upon the next wicket, giving her entire mind to "Remind him of each wish pursued, How rich it glowed with promised good." His, mothers raid, giving him opportunity to survey the field, Charlie exclaimed, - "Rob, now don't you move your ball. You cheat!" "I didn't move it," said Rob. "Tell him we play unequal game," continued Mrs. Armington. "Yes you did; I saw you," said Charlie. And he started to where Rob and Em stood to ex- i'   plain the situation. "Whene'er we shoot by Fancy's aim," ;   pursued Mrs. Armington. - "There, your ball was there!" said Charlie, picking -up the unoffending sphere with vehemence, and jam- :r   ming it down into the sod with vindictiveness. "Now, Charlie, it wasn't any such thing," answered i   "JL7f , X t PJ xlvr Jtic aLr-.L , 'VJL Rob, with warmth.  "It was there!"And he moved it back to its original position. "Two sisters by the goal are set," said Mrs. Armington. It wasn't any such thing, I tell you! It was there!" Charlie excltaimed, with increased animation, "Now, Clharlie, I'll stand a good deal, but 'pon my word I won't be swindled out of the game. I'll leave it to Ern," said Rob, nearer a passion than we have ever seen him before. Their high words finally attracted the attention of the orator; and the good lady, peering over the tops of her specs, and seeing their flushed faces, suspended her elocutionary efforts, and started for that quarter of the ground. Her right foot took down wicket one, all- un- consciously, her left foot wicket two, and at the next step she sent Charles's ball flying to the out-field, With her finger at the place where she had left off she accosted the group. "I don't believe you boys have heard a word. What are you quarrelling about? Em, what is it they leave to you?" "I'll tell you, Mrs. Armington, and I'll decide it Boys, I decide that your mother has carried more wick- ets than any one, and beats the crowd." "Sensible girl!" observed Mr. Charles, who cooled in a momrnent. "Call this a draw, Charlie, and mother two by trick and four by honors," replied Rob. And so Emily settled it, and the boys laughed, al themselves for being geese, and Mrs. Armington finished those beautiful lines from the Wizard of the North. Delightful as this life was, the fact that the future ;          r.    )   62   MRPS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR has demands that must be met caused Mrs. Arming ton occasionally to revolve in her mind what was tc k;    be done with her three waifs. It is sometimes difficull I    to determine what to do with your own children, and the/trouble is measurably enhanced when they happen to belong to some one else; and it is worse and more of it if you fail to know who that some one else is. Jack, who was of an independent firame of mind, anc had already seen sonxe little of the world, had a prev alent idea that he could take care of himself. He ilet Jrd .  a tender solicitude in behalf of his sisters, helpless orphans, who were not well fitted to struggle for them selves in the hard ways of life, but on his own accounl he had no misgivings. He was, of course, too youno and inexperienced fully to appreciate the contract h( proposed to take of going into the warfare single-handec and alone; but self-reliance generally wins its way, and t    in whatever he undertook, the individual upon whor lt he proposed to rely was Jack. His education coul( i    not be called complete, though, since he had been undce the charge of Mrs. Armington, he had learned to read \  i   and write, besides making considerable progress in the i     mysteries of ciphering, as well as in other of the simplel branches of learning. But consciousness of his de 5:    ficiencies did not deter him from believing that the] could be overcome. His kind friend signified her de sire to be of assistance to him, but he was dispose to do by which to earn a living for himself and sup port for his sisters. Hard lines these for the boy. II( so little, and the world so big. ' He la(i never heard of Whittington and his cat, an(: :     if he had, there is no knowing what amount of faith h I5 '      TtIE INFERIOR SEX.       63 would have placed in the story. There doubtless have been many boys, both great and small, who have gone out of London - perhaps other large cities - under pre- cisely similar circumstances, and heard the same iden- tical bells, who did not turn back, and did not become Lord Mayors; and it has always been an imposition upon the rising generation to be putting forth Whittington and his cat, as though the only thing to do was to go out of'somewhere, and upon hearing some racket or other, retrace their steps, and become rich and famous. It is very easy to do, if that is all there is of it; but the way to test the matter is, to let anybody try it, and then see what turns up. Jack went here and there, hither and yon. He be- leaguered merchants in their counting-rooms, he went into factories and mills, he even invaded the awful sanctity ofbankincg-houses; but to his oft-repeated in- quiry if a boy was wanted, it appeared that no boy was wanted. Nobody was desirous of such an institu- tion. He was mole than once snubbed and 1put upon, until he began to, think that a boy was the least de- sirable object to be found in animated nature. Some seemed to regard him with suspicion, as if he were on an errand of mischief, others were inclined to make game of him, and altogether it seemed to be a desperate business. Day after day Jack assiduously pursued his investigations; day after day the sum total posted up a minus quantity with negative results. Probably most boys would bave despaired at such ill luck; grown men would certainly have given uD disheartened, as nothing but the buoyancy of youth is equal to the depressing effect of unremitting disappointment. But Jack went to bed at night feeling that the morrow could have r    "   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR nothing worse in store for him, since to-day had been as bad as it possibly could be. Occasionally, however, he would find some comfort and encouragement in his troubles, for once in a while some one would speak kindly to him, which inspired him amazingly. "Mr. Jones," he observed, confidentially to his sisters, "had remarked that he was a fine little fellow, and somebody would some time take him in and do for him; " which the children all agreed was glorious under the circumstances, as but little more could be left for human ambition to desire. But there were no bright visions realizedj until Mrs. Armington took fate into her own hands. "Jack," she observed, one morning, " you want to do something for yourself- don't you?" Jack modestly replied that such was the fervent de- sire of his heart. "But you can't do anything, you know, Jack--can you?" she next said. Jack thought he could do errands perhaps, or some such matter as did not require great intellectual ener- gies. "Well, I'll tell you, Jack, what we will do. We will find a place somewhere, where a small boy, such as we are, can get something to do which will pay some little wages; little boys, little wages, you know; then at night we'll keep on going to school, as we'll have to do that to make a man of ourselves. A man that doesn't know anything, Jack, is a poor stick, to be sure." Jack's heart clapped As hands; but his elation was momentary. Education had always been to him one of those far-off, lofty, unapproachable things that could only be longed for by such as he, and he intimated as much; but Mrs. Armington interposed, -   r       I THB' INFERIOR SEX.       6  O, I'll be schoolmaster. And if you're a dunce Jack, I'll pull your ears well, for dunces I never could abide. But we will have school here at night after you come home from work, Pnd Emily may come too, and I expect you will learn faster than you ever have yet Now, to-morrow I am going out with you, and before I come back you shall have some situation where you can do something for yourself.." The precision and vigor with which the edict was pronounced rather staggered the boy, but he intuitively felt that a master-spirit had assumed the regulation of his affaijrs, and he merely looked and wondered. As good as her word, the next day beheld Mrs. Ar- mington armed and equipped as for the field of battle, an-d she set out with her youthful protege. She had her walking-stick with her, which performed its usual function of removing people who impeded her path of progress. When they were notified of the presence of Mrs. Armington's staff, they obeyed the mandate, as the purport of its action was universally understood. She had that peculiarity sometimes observable in ladies of pronounced individu'ality, of never getting out of the way for anybody. If a knot of men, conversing upon the sidewalk, saw her coming, they would open a lane for her to pass; otherwise she would go right through or over them. If in a crowd her way was blocked, she would bring her stick gently in contact with the ribs of any member of society who happened to be in front of her, and bid him stand aside with the air of an autocrat. And he stood aside. It was to no purpose to plead in extenuation that the throng was such as to render compliance with her demands next to im- possible. That was not her lookout. She wanted to 5   "   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR  go ahead, and she went ahead. She was so well known, and so universally beloved, that, her peculiarities even Iamused people, and her appearance in a mob on the thoroughfare was equivalent to reading the riot act. She did not, like other people, walk along the streets so much as she sailed like a man-of-war under a press of canvas. Loitering along was no part of her occupa- tion. She was always on business, as was evinced by her style and action. On the morning in question, with her charge under convoy, she visited the business place of a friend who was a railroad president. She bustled into his private office. She found him busily engaged in writing. His back -was towards her, and as her entrance was un- noticed, she poked him with her stick - a civil poke, merely to attract attention. As he looked up, a little surprised, she stated, with- out further preface, - "I want you to take this boy!" Mr. Fearrons - for such was the gentleman's name - looked somewhat puzzled at the abruptness of the de- mand, but composing himself into a good-humored view of the matter, replied,- "But, Mrs. Armington, I have four of my own." "Come now,-Fearrons, I'm on business. This lad is under my charge. He intends to make himself useful, and can do it. He don't know much now, but in three weeks or a month he will have as much' education as any child of his age. Father killed in the army, and its your business and mine to -look after the- son. We kept our children at home, or we might be with- out them now. This is reason enough for doing what we can for those like this little youngster. You take   THE INFERIOR SEX.        67 him, and, my word for it, he will recompense you even in the matter of dollars and cents." "I am certainly disposed, madam, to fall in with any suggestion of the sort you might make, and I will make inquiries among the various offices, and will send you word, in a day or two, of the result." "That is sufficient, and as you have as much to do as I have, I will take your time no further, but bid you good morning." So saying, she poked Jack out of the door with her stick, and withdrew from the apartment. The result, as reported by Mr. Fearrons, was entirely satisfactory, and the next week saw Jack a railway official of not the highest position, but one for which he felt himself under renewed obligations to his kind benefactress. The lad soon gained the confidence of his employers, and as he was apt and zealous in all he undertook, it was not long before he came to be a person of consider- able consequence.    68  LMRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER VII. TRIALS OF NERVE. THE question, what should she do with them, had not yet occurred to the good lirs. Armington in reference to the two girls. It is generally deemed necessary to smooth the ways of boys with great par- ticularity. When they arrive at that age popularly designated as the one when they must "begin to look out for themselves," -then, and immediately, parents, neighbors, and friends begin to "look out" for them, and the individual resigns himself to the fate of having the thing performed by proxy. He is to go into some business. An anxious father trots up and trots down, consults Mr. This, That, and the Other, and joyfully dis- covers some place where the lad may be put, and takes him there and puts him--shows him the door, and the boy finds the house for himself. It is not so very material either, whether, in the combination, the round peg is stuck into the square hole or the revei'se; the main thing is to get the boy settled, and he is often settled by being extinguished. So, if he is to learn a trade or profession, an officious though sometimes mistaken kindness does most of those tilings for him which he should be left to do for himself. It is not generally thus with the other sex. Perhaps the first reason is, that it is popularly deemed ornamental, not useful; and when one of them is possessed with the idea  J   THE INFERIOR SEX.        69 that she herself ought to do,rather than have everything done for her, she finds the current sets the other way, and she is compelled to work out her own task by her own strength. , Ha-Iving located Master Jack to her own satisfaction, it did not at all strike the good lady that anything more was to be done. The mission was completed, destiny was fulfilled, and the lad was where he could take care of himself. What was to become of Emily and Nance did not trouble her brain, for it never en- tered there. She simply thought they were comfort- able and happy, and she could continue to make them so. She had already taken them fi'om their place of temporary refuge, to live with her at her own home. The elder sister was her almost constant companion, and went with her daily in the discharge of her self-im- posed duties. Perhaps the young girl felt a more'than usual interest in the lady's works. She had seen, and known, and felt it all herself, this life of sorrow, and wretchedness, and poverty. She was fated to see more of it,- and the revelations made had a bearing upon the whole of her after-life. Mrs. Armington, having placed Jack, was,- all uncon- sciously, placing Emily, and by one of those wonderful dispensations of Providence, when He is- not improved upon by the interference' of mankind, the proper peg found its proper hole. The large city wherein they lived was visited by the scourge of that awful disease, whichl, singular in its origin, unknown in its cause, and but little understood in its treatment, is, even in its least malignant type, a horror to mankind. They had heard of it, when it broke out, as was said, among r    70   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR caravans of pilgrims going to Mecca, and frightful were the tales told of devotees dying by the thousand, until the air, laden with death from putrefying corpses, bore the pestilence upon the wings of the wind. It followed the avenues of travel, and the subtile poison was dif- fused among the marts of civilization. Its steady, onward movement was noted through all the cities of Europe. It was at one time claimed that science was master of the situation, but the dread visitant strode into the capitals of nations foremost in knowledge, in wealth, and in skill; grappled boldly with science; and when the monster came out from the conflict, shorn of no circumstance of his terrors, science was com- pelled to admit that, as yet, its resources were unequal to the contest. It was said the scourge started among the poor and those who were low and vulgar in their habits; that in great cities it was confined to the vile, the Vicious, the intemperate, and those whom poverty deprived of the comforts of life. Whereupon, as though in scorn of such delusion, and laughing at that security which deemed itself beyond the reach of death's dart, it seized new victims from the lap of wealth, struck the liouses of those who were surrounded with all those barriers over which it had been vainly imagined the fiend could not leap. No class or condition of men was exempt or safe from the'fatal presence. Boards of Health, and quarantine regulations, were to be an efficacious result and a saving grace; and Boards of Health were solemn in their wisdoll, and quarantine was fearful in its rigor; but while they thought they were fighting the foe in front of thenm, and keeping him at bay, a flank movement took themn   THE INFERIOR  SEX.      71 by surprise, and the enemy appeared in their rear, with maw as rapacious as ever. He had crossed the water in ships and steamers - a ghostly figure coming on board whenbthe vessel lay at her dock, passing guard, and sentinel, and inspecting officer, who issued the clean bill of health even while the ghostly figure was looking over his shoulders, laughing, in grim mockery, at the fatal delusion that was being so complacently written. And the ghostly figure lay concealed, for days, in the ship's hold, like a stowaway stealing -passage across the ocean. When they were far out from land, too far for help from the shores they had left, or those which they sought, then the figure threw off its disguise, and appealed in all the horrors of gaunt and grisly destruction. There was no escape fioomn daily and hourly contact with him for those who were thus shut up, far out at sea, com- -pelled to meet him face to face. For days, at the hour of twelve o'clock at noon, the ship was lightened of its burden, by something thrown overboard, with shot tied to its feet, while the survivors stood with bared heads, and the spectre smiled as he looked over the bulwarks and saw the bubbling waters close over the latest one he had seint on a new and longer voyage. Wearied for a time with his work, thus confined to a sphere of narrow compass, he rested his labors for a while, until the cry of land in sight roused him again, like the war-horlse smelling the battle afar. He saw Boards of Health and quarantine in the distance, calmly confident, and, enjoyed the sport of fencing with them, merely as a pastime to amuse his leisure hours, until such time as he was ready to resume his march in earnest; and then he took his own course, just exactly    72   MRS. ARMNGTON S WARD, OR as he saw fit. If the caprice seized him to begin on the principal officer at quarantine, or the first medical pro- fessor of the Health Commission, he took him by the throat, shook the life out of him, and passed on without" the slightest mark of respect or deference. Or if he was facetiously disposed, he slipped by them unseen, and left them to fight the ail; while he was playing havoc in homes they had so successfully defended against his approach. They saw it coming, knew it would be there, and that the question was only one of time. The authori- ties had taken all those sanitary precautions which the wisdom of experience had shown to be of no avail. Still they were not without their uses, for the people, already alarmed and agitated, saw that something was being done to avert disaster, and in that even there was satisfaction. It is a relief to keep up appearances, though they are sometimes deceitful. Anticipation had so long been rife, and the thing had been so much talked about, that everybody had worried everybody else into a fright, even before the occasion for fiight had come at all. Then the wise men an- nounced how the calamity was to be avoided, laying down, as the primal proposition, that calmness must prevail, and nobody, under any circumstances what- ever, must allow themselves to be scared, inasmuch as nothing so much superinduced the disease as the senti- ment of fear. Whereupon those who had hitherto been composed became uneasy, the uneasy alarmed, and those who had been alarmed were now simply terrified out of their wits. To tell people that if they are frightened they will surely die, is by all means just the way to keep them in a condition of violent health.   THE I, VFERIOR  SEX.      73 The actual approach was insidious. A single victim fell. A coroner, who knew next to nothing, summoned a jury, who knew nothing at all, and they "sat on the body." The matter was very simple--no occasion for alarm; case was sporadic--the man had been eating beans. Board of Health fiulminate a bull, and excommuni- cate beans. Tile spectre chuckled to himself again. As though he needed any aid from beans! But give credit where due. The authorities took up the gage early in the battle, and fought bravely, and all they knew how.   They made provision for the sick pllysicians were appointed for the poor, medicines fur- nishedl those who were without means to furnish them- selves, so that the humblest member of society was enabled to swallow the most fearful concoctions witlh- out money and without price. Despite the most strenuous efforts, the destroyer soon obtained sure foothold, and victims began to go down like grain before the scythe. Processions filed throlugl the streets; one had scarcely passed out of sight before- another appeared; but it was not long be- fore people feared to attend upon the obsequies of the dead, lest they might themselves thus meet their own fate. -When the pestilence had reached its height, short shrift was vouchsafed to those whom it seized. Nothing was talked about but the dreaded enemy. Business was suspended, panic pervaded the com- munity.  Brown meets Jones, and tells him, "Robinson vent last night--took at nine - off at twelve. Had all the doctors in town -filled him up with one thing and another-but no ulse!" Jones becomes pale in the face, puts his hands to his   74   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR stomach, and takes a little brandy and water; feels the premonitory symptoms.' It has a weakening effect to be informed that one whom you saw a few hours ago alive and well is now no longer in the land of the living; but this was a common and daily item of intelligence. Remedies seemed oft no avail, drugs appeared to have lost their potency, the physicians flew hither and thither, stop- ping neither for food nor rest; but it was of no avail. All those who could leave the city did so, feeling they were powerless to help, and that there was only safety in flight; -and such was the absolute terror among all classes, that it was fearful to see what a pitiable object society is when its self-possession is entirely aban- doned. Amid all this scene of terror, the only serene one was the undertaker, HeI was a ghoul, but a jollwghoul. He regarded universal disaster with a professional eye. It mattered not how they died. People must die. All trades must live. "Case-hardened " inadequately conveys the idea.  Comes a poor woman. A glance reveals the situa- tion. Her diress is plain; perhaps it were better to say shabby. Her face is very pale, her eyes are red, and she speaks with difficulty. The sentences are broken, and the corner of her aprlon is ragged as she wipes the tears away. But business, is business, and requires to be performed with neatness and despatch. Yes, she did come filom the country; walked three miles to town. Did she know the length of the party? She looked up with surprise. Her dead baby,! Then we'll have to send out and measure it.   THE INFERIOR -SEX.        75 She once had him measured for a pair of shoes; but shoes were not needed now; and she was bewildered. And he questioned her more. "He was not the only child; there were three left; and- the old man was living, but was down with the rheumatism." "They lived by the creek." "sYes! the ground was somewhat low." "Marshy?   Yes, it was marshy too." Well, she would get in the cart with Jerry, and Jerry would drive her home in the twinklin' of a bed-post. "And, Jerry! things is summut lively, and time is a leetle scace; so just you hurry up a bit." "Yes, sir. Back in no time at all." He cracked his whip, the horse started- "And, Jerry! I say- biz is pressin' like; and if yer could kill two birds with one stone -as it's a good Ways to go yer mind, while yer there, jist yer -quiet like --measure the rest of the family." Undertaker amazed at a  fresh burst of grief as the "Bless my soul, what makes the woman take on so?" .    76   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR  CHAPTER VIII. THE  SEED  IS  SOWN. IN this time of distress, of suffering, and of panic, : Mrs. Armington was a calm, collected energy. Her bravery was undaunted. A fearful season of calamity   was upon them. A thousand iell at her side, and ten thousand at her right hand; but, fearing no evil, she walked steadfastly onward, into the valley and the shadow. Wherever there was need of her, thither she bent her steps, although death stood fairly in the way. Ji Hand did not tremble; lip did not quiver;' cheek did not blanch: it was the heroism of the soul. Under some circumstances, courage, perhaps, is not a great merit, although its opposite is, without doubt, a great demerit. That vaunted valor about which men clamor so loudly, and of which fame speaks so highly, is not always to be most commended; for the same soldier who will face the cannon's mouth, and charge ! solid squares of bayonets, will often lose presence- of mind when confronted with a less serious danger. Mere animal spirits and excitement can carry men through stirring scenes, when they may still prove un-  equal to the command of their best faculties when the. occasion for their instant use arises. For that real fortitude which relies upon no adventi- tious aids, but upon itself alone that can fully appre- ciate the extent of the emergency, look it calmly in the   THE INFERIOR SEX.        " face, and yet n-ot be shaken by the appearance, however fearful; for that patient endurance that will tax itself to the utmost, day after day, and whatever agitation may seize those upon whom it ]las always been accus- tomed to depend, is able to preserve its wonted serenity, - lbr this real and true courage, man is unequal and inferior to the weaker sex. Ill those panics which epi- dernics have occasioned, the universal testimony shows that women have remained calm and faithful, while men have forgotten, in selfish fear, even the instincts of humanity. It was not ignorance of the danger upon every , side that enabled Mrs. Armington to preserve her equanimity. She was fully aware that death floated upon every breeze, but, with a full consciousness of her position, her soul rose with the perils that environed her. She spared herself neither night nor day,' and, with the aid of Emily, organized a sanitary commission upon a minor scale. Mrs. Armington had a small, cov- ered wagon or carriage, with which she had long been accustomed to drive herself about the-city. This they rigged up into a kind of travelling hospital. They started out each day with their conveyance full of medicines, provisions, and clothes for the poor, and re- lief for the sick; and they found them without diffi- culty. It was the business of those who were able to do it to take care of themselves. These two good Sa- maritans took the humbler portions of the town. Wher- ever they found one in the grasp of the destroyer, they -flew to the rescue; they gave him instant and -open battle; they brought all their resources to bear; they emptied their arsenal at him, and never quailed or for- sook the field until victory declared in their favor, or :,;                        A   78   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR the life for which they fought yielded the contest. Nor did Emily hesitate to take her part in 'the fiay, young though she was. She was another of those weaker ones who are strongwhen necessity for strength comes. Fear did not, in any sense of the word, appear to be one of her constitutional predispositions. It was all unconscious in both of them, but they were silently, though with resistless energy, developing the decrees of fate. Mrs. Armington's style of treatment was novel and adapted to the emergencies of every case. She dis- coursed to one of those valetudinarians who, for the matter of that, had been dying all his life, and who was now sure that the last trump had sounded with a spe- cial invocation for him. He was in that singular con- dition, of which instances are well authenticated, where, with nothing the matter with him, he was in a fair way, within the next twenty-four hours, to give up the ghost, simply because he was afraid to hold on to it. "Wliy, man alive, you are no more sick than I am!" O, but he was sure he was going to die right off. "Die!" she exclaimed. "Why you couldn't die if you tried! All that troubles you is, you are a calf, and any respectable calf would be ashamed of such didos. Come, get up, and move about, and be a man!" And she actually did succeed in ridding him of the foolish notions that clouded his brain; and, to his sur- prise, he found that he was not quite dead, after all. For many days and weeks, these two were thus busy in their good works. They had the satisfaction of knowing that they had saved many who, from their circumstances, could not obtain the needed attention, and who without them would have died. They re-   THE INFERIOR SEX.         79 lieved the necessities of others, who probably, but for such timely aid, -from scanty and wretched food, from- the ill ventilation of miserable hovels, and the absence of cleanliness in streets, alleys, and sewers near'where they lived, -might have contributed their mite towards swelling the bills of mortality. The sights that were of daily occurrence were suffi- cient to shake the strongest nerves. Such was the prevalent terror that even the ties of natural- affection seemed to have weakened under its influence, and where one was stricken down, the survivors--even of the family-were only anxious to hide his remains under the ground, lest contagion spread; and the haste from death to the tomb was sometimes positively inde- cent, it being said that some were consigned to earth even before the vital spark had fled, while the effect of narcotic influence had merely occasioned the semblance of death. The processions, which in the first stages were at least a formnal sign of respect, were discontinued, and hearses rumbled through the streets unattended by a solitary mourner; while the pace the vehicle observed would have shocked a community in calmer senses. -M unicipal wisdom--which doubtless means well enough, but sometimes has a fearful way of expressing that meaning-had experienced the belief that there was a salutary influence in the combustion of coal, the carbon evolved being prejudicial to the action of the epidemic. Immense fires, therefore, were built upon the stleet corners, which burned for days. The air was loaded, overburclened, impregnated with the odor of coal. tar. In the glooln of dark niglt, llthe huge flames lit up the stricken city with a sombre glare, as though the :                    80   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR fires of death were burning; and vast volumes of smoke filled the heavens, and hung like a funere al pall in the clouds above. By the weird light, carts, wagons, and every nml'nner of wheeled conveyance were seen upon the principal tlhoroughfares, bearing boxes of ominous size and ap- pearance; and but few signs of life were visible except those which told of dread death. A neighboring village, which upon former occasions had been exempt from the visitation, and which had therefore plumed itself upon the idea that Providence in person was regulating its municipal and sanitary af- fairs, was suddenly stricken. It fell lile a bomb-shell amid a column of soldiery. Secure as they had deemed themselves to be, having no anticipation whatever of the terrible event, the people all ran away. WhoeCer could, by possibility, took train, steamboat, any facili- ties for transportation that could be had, and their only thought was to put it filr behind them. Amollg those whose circumstances did not permit of escape, the fa- tality was alarming. The nmedical staff worked itself to the last degree of exhaustion; and as their inces- sant labors apparently accomplished nothing either in staying the progress of the calamity or saving those at- tacked, and as several themselves had fallen, the re- mainder lost courage, hope, self-possession even, and, it is said, actually abandoned the town to its fate. The last one who went made his final round of visits, leaving witlh each patient the supply of customary calm- phor and opium pills, with the grim directions, "Take one every fifteen minutes until you are dead,; and then left. Then went abroad the cry for help to sister cities--   THE INFERIOR SEX.         81 a cry to which, to the credit of the American people be it'said, they have never yet hesitated or faltered in re- sponse. Whether it swas the fire fiend or the death fiend abroad in the land, -no matter what lion in the path,-the noble generosity of their souls has ever poured itself forth in a broad expanse of charity at once beautiful and sublime.           . A corps of professionals and laymen volunteered: to go into the land of the shadow. They we-e mostly young men, bold and vigorous, who had become some- what familiar with the arch enemy. Of the tales they told upon their return, suffice it to say that worse than their worst anticipations had been realized, and the experience they had hitherto had compared nothing with that which they encountered during their mission of mercy. Alas! all came not back. Out of the twenty-one who went, seven' were numbered among the "unreturning brave." While the disease prevailed, the labors of Mrs. Arm- ington and her ward were unremitting. The boys would oftentimes accompany them on their missions of mercy, but generally their efforts, together with those of the father, were engaged in those larger fields of duty which embraced the whole city within their limits; but Mrs. Arnlington and Emily knew no cessation.  Morning, noon, and night, the good lady went from pillar'to post, and post to pillar; and whelever she went, the young girl followed. They overtaxed strength, and after a day perhaps mole than usually trying to body and soul, having returned hofme late :at night, the girl tilred out, both physically and mentally, looking for- ward to a good sound sleep, Mrs. Armington com- plained of being a "little unwell."  Without knowing   82   MRS. ARIRIMGTON'S WARD, OR exactly why, Emily was startled at this intelligence. She stopped. and reflected a few moments. She for- got about the good sound sleep. The epidemic had somewhat abated its virulence; still there were cases when it appeared to be as violent as ever. Emily had seen so much of it that, though young in years, her experience was already considerable. The excitement of work ceasing when work was done, to Mrs. Arming- ton there came a lassitude and expression of weariness upon the face that usually shone with benevolence, or flashed with vigor and determination. To Emily's practised eye, it told of danger. The lady would have laughed it off, but the young girl took her in hand, and would not be gainsaid. Already she felt a fluttering at the heart-a presentiment that seemed to warn her that the foe was coming, if indeed he was not already N there. She was lying upon the couch in the parlor, the rest of the household having retired. Mr. Armington had left the city that day, and the young girl felt a fearful sense of responsibility. Upon Emily's urgency, the lady started to go up stairs to bed; but finding, to her surprise, that her knees were somewhat uncertain, she concluded to take an adjoining apartment upon the same floor. "Mother Armington, how long have you been un- well?" She had been so a day or two; didn't know exactly how long; paid no attention to it, as it was nothing at all. "Why, mother dear! Why didn't you say some- thing about it?" "Now, Em, don't be a goose, and frighten everybody'   THC E INFERIIOR  SEX.     83 in the house. It will pass off soon. Where are you going, child?" "Just let me send Charlie for the doctor, mother." "You shan't do any such thing. I don't want any doctors about me with their vile pills and things. I wouldn't take 'em anyhow." Emily obeyed the command, and sat down again. A day or two! Nothing done. She had not even stopped to rest herself. Precious moments irretrievably lost. Always thinking of herself last, she had said nothing, lest she lmight alarm the family. Emily thought. She thought how gently, how in- sidiously, it approached. She knew that the time and place to make the fight was at the first moment, upon the threshold; that the first shot--no matter how far off, or how faint in the distance--was notice of the. enemy's approach, and was the signal to be ready with every gun that could be brought into action. She had often seen Mrs. Armington herself administer appro- priate remedies, and knew what they were. The time had come to act. Delay was danger, death. She opened the medicine-chest. "Mother, I'm going to play doctor. Take this." "I won't." She put her arm under her head, and brought the spoon to her lips.    \ "Take it, mother."' Gently, quietly. Mere child she was. "But, Em, it's no use. I'll be all over it by morning." "You must take it, mother, just to please me." She raised her head. The persistence was very mild. "There, then!" as she complied with the di- rections, and sank back upon her pillow.   84   MRS. ARMING TON'S WARD, OR And Emily sat down by the bed to watch - the anx- ious, apprehensive watch, when the hours are so still, and the hours are so long; the whole house silent, and the whole world forgotten, except the beloved one at your side, in whom every thought is wrapped. Sweet sleep enfolds in its soft emlbrace, and nought is heard except, through the open door, the gentle breath- ing from some distant couch, where youth, and health; and innocence so peacefully repose. The senses be- come painfully acute, nerves are strung to highest ten- sion, through the hours that are so still, and the hours that are so long. It is no death-watch that ticks be- hind the head-board; it is the beat of the waking heart, as the rushing blood oppresses the head, making that confused hum in the ear that numbs the sense. The stillness becomes so intense, so oppressive, - the feeling of loneliness so overwhelming,- there comes that im- pulse, sometimes almost irresistible, to scream aloud, if only to break the monotony that is no longer bearable. And thus she sat, as the minutes went by, and fear- ful fancies, vague terrors, bewildered her brain, fol no sleep came; and she feared that the change for which she had hoped would not come, and she then thought that instant and more powerful action was demanded. She aroused the domestics of the house, and gave them directions to heat water; yet her manner was so calm that, only half' awakened as they were, they received their orders just as though they had been told to get breakfast. She then went to Charlie's room, and rapped lightly upon the half-opened door. "What is the matter?" "Mother is sick. Call Rob, and come down stai's." She tried to speak in her usual voice, and thought   THE INIERIOR SEXY.        85 she had succeeded; but heart so speaks to heart that the tongue, even in bearing the message, sometimes cannot conceal the truth, try it though never so hard. He was soon at his mother's bed, and saw that she was very ill, although it did not at first occur to him what the nature of the disorder was. This was a very affectionate family, and it was always a peculiarity with them to magnify the danger that threatened any one, and to feel, therefore, increased apprehension; and Emily was afraid that they might communicate their alarm to Mrs. Armington-a result which was to be avoided. Medical assistance was now speedily summoned. The wise men assembled, looked, and gravely shook their lieads. No amelioration of the symptoms had ap- peared; upon the contrary, the bad had grown worse. The eyes became sunken in their appearance; hands and feet grew cold; yet the fever within caused inordi- nate thirst; cramps of the lower limbs came on. The doctors said hot bottles. They were applied. Flannels in boiling water. They fairly hissed when Emily wrung them out, and her hands looked as though they were flayled. Strange how a woman can pick up red-hot iron or handle melted lead when the time comes to do it. Mustard! Plasters of such strength they burned as soon as they touched. The vital heat was wyaning. They rubbed.  Doctors said life depended on it. Charlie rubbed.  Rob rubbed. How  serious the bright boy was now!   Face pale, his curls loose upon his neck, teeth set, lips drawn together, and ]his dark eyes wild with energy.  And  they rubbed, and they rubbed. The muscles stood   out upon their arms in corded knots, with the long-continued, wearisome strain. And   86   MRS. ARMNGTON'S HWARD, OR they rubbed till Charlie gave out; then Rob sank ex- hausted upon the floor by the side of his mother's bed. Like a thoroughbred, he went till he dropped. The little girl was rubbing still. At last they told her it was useless. The child had lost her reason. She told the doctors it was false in a scream that resounded through the house. She had seen others as bad or worse than this. She called on Charlie and Rob, and told them not to give up. Moth- er should not die. They worked, and struggled, and fought through fearful hours; and at last the physici1an, who had been noting the progress of the disease froln minute to minute, observed that her hands were getting warm again.  New life was infused into the battle. Efforts were redoubled. Afterwards came a deep sleep. From that she awoke to delirium. --The disease had been arrested, but the remedies-had induced brain fever. For days she lay in a sunless, rayless stupor, without motion, not speaking. Bad news travels fast. There came every day to that house many, many people, humble in appearance. They stood in the porches, and filled the garden. Some were men of rough aspect - mechanics, day-laborers. Their faces were very sorrowful. They stood with their- heads bared and reverently bowed, to know if there were one saint less on earth, and one more in heaven., There were women with dresses faded and worn - sewing-girls, wives, mothers - who had known and blessed the bounty of her generous heart. There were little children, some barefoot, some very ragged, but all so quiet, so still! With what anxiety Emily watched from day to day for some sign of recognition!. The eyes -were closed, ,         . ,    THE- INEERIOR SEX.        87 the features still and composed in serene beauty; and but for the gentle breathing one had not known whether it were sleep or the twin brother of Sleep. She had watched thus for five days, waiting for some motion, some word. The sun was sinking in the west, and his rays shone through the almost darkened win- dow in mellowed splendor upon a soft, white ha d. It moved. Emily started and seized it in her own. She fell upon her knees by the bed. The beloved face ,turned towards her. She felt the feeble pressure of the soft, white hand. The eyes opened, and the lips moved once more. Emily bent her head to listen. Was it life or death? The tone was low, but clear and dis- tinct : "Em, you're a born doctor, if there ever was one- in the world. Don't tell me!" I t  J   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, ORl  CHAPTER IX. EMLY REFLECTS. THE remark that had fallen from Mrs. Armington's lips, at a time when the sensitive soul of Emily was peculiarly liable to impression, had awakened a train of reflection to which the young girl found herself daily and hourly returning. As the months passed away, and the memory of that fearful season lst some of its hor- rors in the distance, she recalled with pleasurable satisfaction the work they had so zealously done. She saw of what great use a physician could be; how people depended upon him in such times of distress; how a cool, calm, undaunted person, besides being a healing balm, was able to prevent panic, by reassuring those who had lost self-control. Often and often that question came back to her, Could I be a physician? And the older she became, the more often and the more pertinaciously was the question repeated. She was now verging upon womanhood. Her brother had prospered in worldly affairs, and was paddling his own canoe upon quite an independent course. She and her sister lived at the Armington mansion, and Emnily had seized the opportunities for education which were offered her, and her advances from a state of unlearn- ing were rapid. She taught her little sister, for all her   ambition seemed to be for a progress of mind and intellect. Still she felt thlat there was more for her to do than even this. She lacked a feeling, a sense of indepen- dence. No mother could be more loving than the kind and beautiful woman who -had taken the orphans out of the street and given them a home, not only in her house, but her heart. But a consciousness was always with her that op- pressed her, and oftentimes made her moody and silent. Rob's quick wits made the discovery first, and he made fun of her. He made fun of everything that had fun in it, and he was an unmnerciful tease. "I see how it is, Em. You're taking on airs, and if there's anything I can't abear, it's airs," said Rob. "But, Rob, I cannot but feel that this is not really my own home; and though it is upon the kindest bounty in this world, still I'm dependent. Suppose your father and mother were to die -," rejoined Emily. "Why, Charlie would marry you, and I would marry Nance, and-" said Rob. "Master Rob," she said, - and there was a wee flush on the cheek,-"Master Rob, do you know what the gentlemen generally do before they get that far?" "How's that?" he replied, absently, having almost forgotten what he had said. "They usually put the matter in an interrogative shpe, and do not always get what they ask," said Emzily. Rob exploded in a roar of laughter. '"Gang your ain gait, Em. When the world-gets you at a disadvantage, we'll have an eclipse of the sun, moon, and stars, all in a bunch,' said Rob.    90   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR To the casual observer her life was one of unalloyed happiness, at least so far as material things went. But the season of unrest had dawned, and she believed it was ier duty to do, and she felt that there was strength within her to accomplish her work, could she find what it was. She did not rebel exactly against the existing order of society, but it did seem to her inexperienced mind that the proper balances were not always accurately adjusted. To her it appeared that the opportunities offered for the exercise of women's wits, intelligenc e skill, and industry, were too limited, and that such rewards as were tendered by way of recompense were largely inadequate. She saw the thousand vocations -1rative waues, and of tha -which men follow at rmunetive wages, an  of that thousand there were but few which a woman could not pursue just as successfully; but in the first place, public opinion did not sanction their desire to perform even the humblest work of men, and in the second place, starved them if they attempted it. A man could sell poultry and potatoes and be respectable, but a woman! She ought to be ashamed of herself. As long as a woman did. anything else than that she had much better "be attending to h   er own busi "Mother Armington, I wonder if you have forgotten! Long ago you said that I was a b orn doctor. Did you mean anything ' asked Emily. l "I meant, Ern, that you had thelpluck, the patience, the coolness and nerve, all of which are essentials in    THE INERIOR SEX.       91 that-profession.  You remember how we^ used to go among the sick folks that time - when it was so bad?-" Indeed did she remember. "I saw you took to it naturally, child then as you were. You got firom me all I knew, and knew it better than I did. Your judgment was keen and just. I'd have died that night but for you. I was conscious when the doctors gave me up, and knew that what I needed was just the rubbing and the applications you were using; that if you stopped I would die, but I knew you never would stop, and that I should get well, and I did. There now!" She paused a moment. The stocking was drawn over her left hand, and with the darning-needle in her right, she held them up, and peered between them through her spectacles, emphasizing her remarks. "(Four doctors; all got scared!" (stocking.) "Told you it was no use, and you might as well quit. Did I sup- pose you were going to quit?" (darning-needle.) "I knew you'd die first!" -(stocking and darning-needle both.) "Do you know, Mother Armington, I would give my life to be a physician. I think I) could do so much good. I could go around among the poor folks and help a great deal," said Emily. "Then all you have to do is, just be a physician. What's to hinder+" asked Mrs. Armington. "And it would teach me to rely upon my own re- sources, and perhaps, by'and by, I could getran income so as to be independent, and take care of myself and Nance, too," replied Emily. The amiable lady dropped her stocking and dairning- needle, and confronted Emily suddenly. "Indepen-   92   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR dent!  magnificent nonsense! The only objection to your being a doctor, Em, is, you're just a goose. Independent! D'ye want to take up arms and declare war Sagainst anybody?" Summer seas will ruffle, and Emily held her peace. Tlhis conversation settled her determination, and she lost no moment putting her design into execution. But the road was rough and there were stumbling- blocks. She borrowed books and read them. She found little encouragement from any but lher one steadfast friend. :If she sought advice from those skilled in the profession to direct her in her studies, it was given with an amazed and startled air. She en. countered-ridicule wherever her idiosyncrasy was known - no end of ridicule. Alas! her " sphere," until she began to think that her sphere was to sit still and twirl her thumbs; but she had seen so many of the stronger sex thus employed, she feared even that occupa- tion might be debarred her. But she was faithful to the end. When she had spent a year or more in private study, with such assistance as she could pick up from those who were willing to aid her, she found it necessary to proper progress that she should attend medical lec- tures. Then came the trial of her life. She pondered. It was bold to make the attempt even. Her courage was put to the test. "Certainly," said Mrs. Armington. "By all means. Lectures, of course."   THE INFERIOR    SEX.     93 CHAPTER X. THE DEAN. IT was without trouble that she found her way to the Dean of the Faculty. She took no letters of introduc- tion to produce a favorable impression, but went alone. He was a large, pompous gentleman, of middle age, but his ideas were very old. Probably a new one had not entered his head for a generation, though, if it had, it would doubtless have found plenty- of room and the company scarce. He had been a successful practitioner, chiefly from the fact that he had an affable manner, could look wise, nay, profound, and was a perfect genius at holding his tongue. His patients, too, thought him an accommodating doctor, as he found out what they wanted to do, and then generally let them do it. He had mastered the most valuable rule of the science, which was to prescribe but little. As he did not there- fore choke people with abominable drugs, Nature had a fair opportunity to work her own cure. Having ac- cumulated an independence, he had ceased from active practice, and was professor in a distinguished medical college. To him comes Emily, doubting, fearing. She knew . nothing of the dean, save that he had been a popular physician, and was now one of the leading memberes of the faculty. She entered the presence with grave apprehension. She was received with courtesy, for if   "  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR the dean had but little inside of him, he had carefully polished the outside. The usual salutations were passed, and the gentleman was puzzled to understand the pur- pose of his fair young visitant. She, too, was so much embarrassed as to be unable for some moments to collect her thoughts sufficiently to enable her to enter upon the subject nearest her heart. Finally she summoned resolution enough to state that she desired to attend the lectures. The woman question burst upon the astounded dean in all its fearful magnitude. A pallor seemed to overspread his countenance, and he gasped for breath as he exclaimed, "A woman! attend lectures?"  Finding that she herself was capable of inspiring, if not awe, at least terror, the girl took courage, and instead of being overwhelmed at what appeared to be considered her audacity, she regained her self-possession so -as to feel at ease, and to gaze upon the amiable but horrified professor with a smile of composure. "Yes,", she said, quietly; and her voice was so sweet in its tones as to incline those who heard hel speak in- sensibly in her favor. "Why should not a woman attend lectures?" It being a question that the dean had never imagined it was possible for him to be called upon to answer, lihe was utterly dumbfounded. Had anybody in the course of conversation said to him, "And why should you not eat your grandmother?" he could not have been more taken aback. That kind of treatment towards his respected ancestress had never presented itself to his mind. That is not the disposition ordinarily made of grandmothers; in point of fact, nothing whatever could be more remote from all ideas of good society,   THE INFERIOR SEX.         95 I and the worthy doctor, being unable to make a reply, n made none, and Emily resumed. "I am a poor girl, desirous not only of making my way in life, but also -and what is of vastly greater con- sequence --of doing good to my fellow men and women. I have chosen your profession because I believe it to offer great opportunities, while I see nothing in it that is unfeminine."   W The dean had been struggling to regain his com- posure, after the violent shock he had undergone, and as he recognized the restored action of his faculties he ventured to reply to her. "Indeed, you astonish me, miss, and I confess I did not suppose such a request would ever be made, at least of this college." "Will you point out, sir, specific and valid objections to that request?" asked Emily. " Such things, young lady, should not be encouraged. They should be fi'owned down - yes, frowned down. This age is altogether too-ast. Society is falling to pieces. Radicalism, radicalism, miss, is the ruin of everything," replied the dean. "One  would think, Si', from your statements, that some malicious person had discovered the spot which Archimedes so much wished to find, and was turning the world topsy-turvy,"' rejoined Emily. "That is very much the condition of affairs, and there is nothing that shows such a great step towards the dissolution of things as the claims women are now "aking with regard to their position in life. They h  ae lost all idea of woman's sphere, and a woman out of her sphere is like a planet shot from its orbit," said the dean.   96   MRS. ARlING TON'S WARD, OR He evidently thought the grandeur of this figure would overwhelm her; but she quietly took up the gage of battle. , Will you explain to me, sir, what woman's position in life isor should be, according to your judgment?" asked Emily. ," Certainly, by all means. Woman's place- is athome, fulfilling the sweet duties of love. Slle is unfitted to meet the rude struggle of life, and encounter those daily cares and anxieties that arise from contact with the world," replied the dean. With a shade of irony in her tone, Emily stood for the rights of the inferior sex, and felt quite a disposition to give the complacent gentleman anytling but a velvet handling. "Woman's place at home--is it? Pray, doctor, who goes to market, you or your wife?" asked Emily. "O, that the lady of the house should always do,' answered the dean. "In order that her lord may be able to ejaculate,' A little more folding of the hands to sleep!'" said Emily. "I refer to those things that bring men in contact with the rougher and more disagreeable portion of the world; these the gentler sex should avoid," said the dean. "Doctor, in the pursuit of your profession, which I understand has been a successful one, it" you have hbad any contact with the world, rougher and more disagree- able than those petty cares of housekeeping which formerly fell upon men, but which modern civilization is daily imposing more and more upon women, will you be good enough to tell what it is? And if it is a t rougher and more disagreeable contact with the world   THiE!INFERIOR SEX.        97 to visit patients, deliver lectures, and heal the sicl;k, tlhan to spend the best hours of your life in the pur- chase of butter and eggs from ill-mannered mnen,i who would cheat you out of your eyes, and laugh at your ignorance if you submitted to, or rail in contempt at your meanness if you revolted from, the injustice, please illustrate the great advantage we women possess. I confess I have not discovered it," observed Emily. "A woman's glory is in overcoming trials such as you have named, and she is fulfilling her highest duty when, in the sacred precincts of the household, she is caring for the welfare of husband and children,' replied the dean. "Suppose she has neither," said--Emily. The dean was not exactly prepared for such a sup- position, and it took him by surprise; but he resumed. "That is simply begging the question." "I do not knotw, doctor, as I understand precisely what ' begging the question' is. But I have heretofore observed that if, in discussion, a woman happened to get a little the - advantage of a man, he invariably ex- tinguish-es her with the assertion that she is' begging the question.' Of course my experience is limited, and I can only speak for that large portion of my sex, who, like myself, are not bound by the ties to which you refer. I believe single women, especially those who are compelled to take care of themselves, should be allowed the opportunity, at least, of making the attempt, without being scoffed at by mankind. I believe, that. by so doing, by being allowed to act for /. themselves, and to follow the impulses of their nature, besides discharging their ordinary duties, they might be useful among their fellow-men. Neither do I be-' 7  )8   MRS. ARMNGTON-'S WARD, OH  lieve, doctor, that husband and children are mere  obstacles to progress, or stumbling-blocks in the path  of humanity," replied Emily.  "You are mistaken, young lady, in all your ideas,  and are thoroughly wrong, from the foundation up. It is impossible to point out all your errors, but upon your theory society would need to be entirely reconstructed, rejoined the -dean. Doctor- shall you oppose the millennium, when it comes?" asked Emily. Sufficient unto the day, miss. It is very clear that you and I cannot create a revolution,' said the dean. "And must therefore submit to what we believe to be wrong?"5' asked Emily. "We cannot alter the order of nature, after all, re-  plied the dean. But is it the order of nature to ignore our sex in some things, when society or the human race is Ab- solutely dependent upon it in others? I am wishing  a to become a physicia, because I believe nature has given me some of those qualities that are desirable in a physician; but you say me nay, for it is not appro-  priate to woman. "To whom does the child first turn in sickness but its mother? The sick man, doctor, sends for his wife  before he does for you. You will concede that a  woman is the best nurse in a sick room. Do you not rely more upon- the information an intelligent female nurse gives you of a patient than upon your own obser- vation; upon this you form your opinion, more than upon your own judgment, after a hurried interview of a few moments, and you act accordingly. Why may they not qualify themselves to act upon the results of   THE INFERIOR    SEX. 1  . 99 their own observation, rather than to suffer ddlay, in a crisis when time may solve the question of life, or death? Often in the sick room variation of symptoms demands instant action, or the result may be fatal. "It is also generally admitted that there is nore in skilful, careful, patient nursing, than in mere medical attendance; and if we are confessedly successful in this lumbler, but not less important connection with the sick, why may we not be competent to be members of your profession?" argued Emily. "O, there is no doubt but that women are good nurses ; but most anybody can be that," replied the dean. - "Did you ever try it, doctor?" asked Emily. "No! my young friend.  That is not my depart- ment," replied the dean. The loftiness of his manner was irritating; but she was determined not to lose her temper; lest it might endanger her chances of a successful result to the in- terview. After a pause, she drew attention to the fact that they had wandered somewhat away from the sub- ject in hand, and she returned to the original point of attack. The dean's discomfiture immediately seized upon him again as he. said, - "No doubt much of what you say about nursing, and all that, is well enough; women are tender, and delicate, and patient, and gentle, and so forth. Perhaps I would go so far as to say that, personally, I can see no objection, upon principle, why they might not be physicians. But this, you observe, is a great conces- sion." "Why is it, if there is no objection upon principle?" asked Emily. "Whether it is or not, I might be prepared to yield  O0 ?MRS. AIRMNGTON'S WARK, ur , great ,leal; but then-to attend lectures! really low. Why! how could you?" said the dean. " The question, doctor, is, not how I can, but will you let me? If you will do your part, I will take care of mine," replied Emily. "You do not mean to say, now, that you really  would? Have you thought? What would people say  about it?" said the dean.              i "Suppose a young girl should see a man drowningo and should row a boat out to him, and save his life; should she hesitate by stopping to ask, 'What would people say?" asked Emily.       , ", Not at all; women should always do good when they can; but-" said the dean. "But the offen'e is in learning to row the boat, ac- cording to the ethics of the resent day. Now, suppose  that false notions of womanly delicacy had deterred  her from acquiring this skill, when opportunity had  offered, and she stood upon the bank and saw the man perish, when the means were at hand to save him, if she, knew how to use them. Would womanly delicacy be a sufficient answer to her conscience and love of humlan- ity, in face of the fact that the knowledge which she had failed to acquire would have enabled her to pre- serve human life?" asked Emily. "Your illustration is not an analogy, There is no,: harm in a woman's learning to row a boat: upon the  M contrary, it is a very graceful and lady-like amusement. * Ellen Douglas was a charm of propriety," rejoined the dean. "Yet Ellen Douglas, prompted by love and filial. affection, - those unerring instincts of the human heart, - seemed to display a great want of maidenly modesty   when she entered the presence of the c glittering throng,' and people were ready to say unpleasant things of her, until Fitz-James ' Checked with a glance the circle's smile.' And then she was an object of profound respect. She suddenly became the fashion; and I apprehend that if it was the fashion to do any of these things that are now forbidden by the law of the inexorable, no farther difficulties would remain," said Emily. "It is very true that we are great slaves to conven- tionalities," replied the dean. "To the opinions of others I am in a great measure indifferent.  If you will show to me that the end I purpose does not justify the means I seek, - in other words, convince me that it is unwomanly for me to do as I desire, - I will abandon my purpose forever, although it is the cherished hope of my heart; I have pondered it well. I am, however, young and inexperi- enced, and would be guided by a better-wisdom," said Emily. She said this with a saddened tone of voice and downcast eyes, as one who beheld the final flight of "The bird in the story, That flitted from tree to tree, With the talisman's glittering glory." Her simplicity, her sincerity, and her earnest enthu- siasm, had begun to affect even the dean himself, usually impervious to anything of the kind, and he could not but feel that had they been displayed in a man, they-must have achieved high triumphs; and he said to her, with more kindness than he had hitherto shown,-   -   1]02  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR "My dear young lady, if you were to attend lectures, you know with whom and what you would be brought in contact. Do not therefore press the matter further. It may be that society has not sufficiently advanced. We can only regret., we cannot help it." "I have considered it all, sir, and had made up my mind to brave the ordeal, could I persuade you to allow me the opportunity; but if I halve encountered the laws of the Medes and -Persians, I must only bear my disappointment as best as I may," said Emily. "In justice to myself, I think I may say, that after this interview with yourself, I do not know but that I might be induced to favor such an experiment as you suggest. I am satisfied, hiowever, that the faculty could not be prevailed upon," added the dean. She saw that the case was hopeless; and her feeling was so great and so apparent, that the learned professor volunteered to say, that if she desired, he would assist her with private instruction. This, however, she de- clined. In the Course of subsequent conversation lie further informed her that he had: recently heard that there had been started, in a distant city, a school of medicine where women were educated in the profession; that it was under the care and direction of those of her own sex, who occupied, if not all, some of its chairs, This was like cold water to a thirsty soul, and the next object of her ambition was the new college of which she had thus heard; and until the time should come when she was sufficiently prepared to enter upon its course of instruction with advantage, she applied herself diligently to her studies.   THE INFERIOR SE X.        13 CHAPTER XI. HSTORY. IN the year 1809 Jean Franqois De B1eranger and Gabrielle, his wife, came to the then village of Eglinton. Eglinton is here used as a generic term, and may mean this town, that city, or the other metropolis, just as the reader sees fit to choose; for the facts of the story may have happened in one place just as well as in another, and to be exact in the matter of localities or dates casts a restraint about the author of fiction that is at once irksome and chilling to the soul of fancy. The wise master of art, therefore, should never be too particular about such unimportant matters, lest some of those eminently practical people, who insist that everything must be true as gospel, except in some instances the gospel itself, should encounter him in some of his lof- tiest flights of imagination with that chilling rebuke, "But it can't be true;" just as if anybody expected it to be, or cared whether it was or not. Jean was a tall, angular Frenchman. He had served under Napoleon.   Not the Man of Sedan, but that nobler soul who pined upon the barren isle, feared even in defeat and exile, and who, amidst hopless sorrow, remembered to ask that his body might repose uponl the b:nlks of the Seine, among the people he loved so well. He had been at Wagram   and Austerlitz when the   104  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR \    , ' "star" was at its zenith. He was also at the fatal crossing of the Beresina. On the banks of the Niemen there appeared, in June, an army of five hundred thousand men, in all the most 'complete appointments of war; in the month --of De- cembel; the wreck of that vast host -twenty thousand in number-returned from Moscow. The passnge of the bridge which led from Russia to German, territory was djefended by Ney, " the bravest of the brave." He maintained the unequal fight until deserted by all but thirty men; and then, With musket in hand, he retired slowly, in the face of the enemy, and was the last French soldier to quit the Russian soil. When, blackened with gunpowder, his hair and beard singed so that he was not recognizable, he was asked who he was, he replied, "I am the rear-guard of the Grand Army." It was of such things the old man delighted to tell. When the "star" had finally sunk beneath the hori- zon, after the disasters of Waterloo, De Beranger, as did many followers of The Empire, sought the shores of the new world. Canada was his first home; but after a short residence there, he, with his wife, as has been stated, removed to Eglinton. As people of humble lives they obtained occupation among the inhabitants of the village, and livedl in the capacity of servants with the family of Major Daniels. The husband was the gardener of the establishment, while the wife presided in the kitchen. Here they re- mained for many years. The old man--for he was advanced in life even when he came to this country - was faithful in the discharge of his duties, and on account of his connection with' the great events of' the world, and his fondness for narrating past experiences, soon   THE INFERIOR SEX.     -   105 became a character of note in the small community in which he lived. He was fond of children, and might any day be seen playing with the little ones of the family; and nothing delighted him more than a romp at hide-and-seek over the spacious domains whele his master lived. In the course of time, being plrudent and economical in his ways, he became "forehanded with the world," and, investing his small savings under the' wise direction of the major; who was both friend and patron, he purchased a home in the then suburbs of the village, with a tract of ground sufficiently large to en- able him to carry on his favorite pursuit of gardening, where his fiuits and flowers afforded him both pleasure and profit. As his accumulations increased he erected upon his premises a large tenement, the rooms of which he rented to others, and he invariably preferred a tenant with children. They found his acquaintance of easy culti- vation, and generally made haste to improve it. He knew how to interest them by teaching games of amuse- ment, and to those who were mature enough, he told stories of his early days, "shouldered his crutch, and showed how fields were won." It was about the year 1833 or 1834 that the old soldier received his orders for another march; and in his last wandering moments the feeble ejaculations, "En avant," "Vive l'Empereur," showed that while the earthly tabernacle was being laid aside, the spirit kept its martial armor on. His wife survived him but a few years, after which, according to common rumor, there was no one remaining of the name of De Beranger. The property, thus left apparently as a waif, to be picked up by anybody who might happen that way,    106   AIRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR although not of very great value at the death of its owner, as year after year went by, and the village grew to a town, and the town to a city, began to be an object of interest to those having a knowledge of the facts, and that there was no heir to whom it rightfully be- longed. Most people are like other people, and avarice is in all hearts. Even the poor who had been occupants under their old landlord were seized with the spirit of acquisition, and the ownership of a considerable piece of real estate, with houses, was not a circumstance abso- lutely despicable in its nature. So it happened that firAt one set up a claim, and then another, none of whom had any justice in their pretensions. Hence lawsuits arose. The neighbors got by the ears. There was incessant wrangling. What would seem singular, the more clearly it was demonstrated that any given indi- vidual had no rights at all in the object of pursuit, the more eager and determined did he become to grasp the forbidden fruit. Thus their passions were aroused, till all became like a hungry pack of wolves, who would have eaten one another, had the diet been- at all pala- table, Our theory and notions of legal rights are derived from what is known as the common law of England - a system of jurisprudence which is said to be glorious, and- partaking of ineffable wisdom, though it has its peculiarities. Under British institutions, whenever one dies, leaving none to inherit his goods and chattels, lands and tenements, the king, who is generally termed the father of his subjects, in that case becomes their lawful heir; it being the assumption that, as he is without patrimony of his own, and con- sequently styaitened for visible means of support, it   THE INFERIOR 'SEX.        17 is but the fair thing that he should be permitted to watch small opportunities of picking up such items of material aid as appear to be irresponsible to any known owner. So fhr as history relates, however, it does not appear to have been an occupation of the kings of Eng- land to go around their realms picking up stray corner lots or fobbing loose change for a living, as Parliament has been able, thus far, to preserve them from absolute want. Still it is true that possessions without pro- prietors are assumed by the monarch, and the process is called "escheat." The same course of things pre- vails in this country, the only difference being that the state here takes the place of king there. The state, therefore, witnessing with pain the dissensions of its integral items of sovereignty over the abandoned wealth of poor De Beranger, benignantly stepped in and settled their disputes by taking it all herself. She took the' oyster, they the shells. Thus it remained through another series of years, until the name even of De Beranger, like its owner, had died and been forgotten. It was in this position of affairs that the French con- sul of the place became, accidentally, aquainted with the fact of the abandoned inheritance. It would be indeed remarkable that a man should be so absolutely and utterly alone in the world as to have no kin, of any direct or collateral branch, in any degree, however remote. Interested in the first place by the French name, and surmising that those who answered to it were people in humble circumstances, probably ignorant of their rights, and not likely ever to become informed of them, he set himself to work to ascertain if there were none living of the De Beranger lineage. His acquaintance in France, and an extensive business con-  :::,s q  X '] "d   108  MRS. ARMNGTOiYS WARD, OR nection in that country, enabled him to prosecute his inquiries with greater facility than if he had held no official position. But, although he put himself to great pains, and obtained many clews, which he followed out to no practical result, months, indeed a year or more, went by before he discovered anything that justified his exertions. He, however, learned that there was another member of the same family, a remote cousin of Jean Francois De Beranger or his wife - the info rma- tion could not particularize which-- who had emigrated to America at some uncertain date, with the intention, as was stated, of settling in the St^te of Louisiana. The amount of light thus shed upon the question of heirship could not be deemed absolutely satisfactory; still one little step forward was made. Investigations were set on foot in Louisiana. They were begun with more hope of success than remained after they had been continued six months without acconplishing any- thing but successive disappointments; and the general conviction finally forced itself on the mind that the search was, and always would be, fruitless. There were to be found plenty of Frenchmten, as well as foreigners of other nations, entirely willing to inherit an estate; there were some who were inclined to assert them- selves as the proper descendants of the proper persons; but the astuteness of the consul detected the various frauds that were attempted upon him, and the imposi- tions were exploded. When exploring the universe for some great dis- covery, it often happens that we spend our energies in ransacking the most remote quarters of the globe with- out success, when the exact matter we want lies directly under our nose. We are not entirely sure that this  . . v  w.   . *  .   THE INFERIOR SEX.-        109 profound philosophical observation was made by Lord Bacon, but if it had been it would have done him in- finite credit, . The consul referred to had, for many years, been in the habit of collecting from the French government a small pension for an individual of the name of Alex- ander Cummings. How the matter had ever fallen into his hands he had long,since forgotten, but he had con- tinued, from year to year, transacting the business, until it became mere routine, and produced no 'im- pression upon him. Alexander Cummings was an old man, who walked seventy miles every six months to the consul's office, received his half-yearly reward of patriotism, amounting to fifteen dollars, put it in his pocket, walked home again, and was seen no more till next pay-day. During the third year of the consul's explorations, as the veteran came on his usual errand, after he had signed the necessary receipts, the consul asked him, casually, if he had ever heard, in France, the name of Jean Francois De Beranger. The question appeared to take him by surprise, and he hesitated in answering. This excited curiosity, and by dint of cross-questioning, the consul was at length led to sus- pect that he was nearing the object of his long pursuit. The old man appeared" to labor iunder some vague apprehension of danger, until informed of the object in view, and that no harm was intended. Understanding at last that it was but a friendly endeavor to bring him to his own if he were the one so long sought, he finally stated that he was a relation of De Beranger, whom, ]however, he had never seen since they were children togcether. Mere assertion, though, was not proof, as experience had shown that if it had been, some several o    '     *   "O   MRS. ARAIINGTON'S WARD, OR- scores of pretenders would have gained the prize. The fact, too, of his name was a difficulty. It was not a French name, and the old man admitted he had changed it on account of the unpleasant political celebrity at- taching to his old one. He further explained that papers at his home would show that all he said was true, and that by them his birth, parentage, and con- nection with the lost heirship, could be satisfactorily established. To settle in his own mind the verity of the story, the consul determined     to accompany Cummings to his home. Not that he doubted the old man's word, but in order to put himself in possession of legal evidence if occasion for its use should ever arise, Upon making the trip, and examining the proof, it appeared to be just as stated. There remained no doubt of Cum- mings's relationship, and that he was the proper owner both of the inheritance and name of De Beranger. One, -however, who is owner of property of which another is in possession, deriving the benefits, income, rents, and profits, has the smallest end of the bargain. It is as if two make a division of a house, one taking the inside and the other the outside; the partition may, at, first sight, appear equitable, but it must be ultimately apparent that one of the parties is out in the cold. So Cummings undoubtedly owned the bone, but the state was picking it. More than once he went and surveyed his premises, like Moses on Mount Nebo; but further than that he went not. To make his ownership practicable and profitable, the next step necessary was to induce the state to re- lease its proprietary interest; in. other words, to " remit the escheat"--that is what the lawyers termed it.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        " This involved calling upon the legislature to take action, in the shape of passing a law declaring Alexander Cum- mings the rightful heir of Jean Francois De Beranger, and entitled to his property. This might seem, at first blush, an undertaking of not very great magnitude, and the consul supposed that probably some trifling for- malities were to be gone through with, and then, in a few weeks' time, the old man would obtain his own, and bask in the sunshine of prosperity. It required just two years, eight months, three weeks, and two days,- not to be particular about any -smaller divisions of time,-- to induce the statesmen to act. Great bodies move slowly. At this stage of the'game, Mr. Charles Armington, a rising young lawyer, was engaged to present the neces- sary facts to the proper authorities, and secure the desired result. Having been fully informed of all that- had previously occurred, and interested by the novelty of the matter, as well as being desirous of helping the old man, the young gentleman entered into the busi- ness with zest. The financial part of the enterprise was one that had its difficulties. Nobody had any money to invest in the undertaking; the consul had already planted a good deal of seed in that stony soil, the old man had none to plant, and in other hands, perhaps, a failure might still have -been insured. But Charlie resorted to his mother, as he always did when he was perplexed, and she at once gave him her orders with the promptitude of a brigadier-general. Of course the Frenchman must have his rights; she should see to that. "Seventy years old, and poor as a rat? Think of that, Em:! I rather expect we can find money enough, if that's all.   "2  MRS. ARMNGTOIN'S WARD, OR And if there is nothing but a legislature in the way, we must put a legislature out of the way. Suppose I take my stick to 'em, Emr." Emily rather thought that would finish the business in short order, though Mr. Charles was of opinion that it was hardly the best method of facilitating-the enact- ment of important statutes. In reply to his mother's inquiries, the young man explained that it wnas probable that expenses would be incurred that might be considerable. Memorials and petitions must be prepared, and printed addresses to "your honorable body," &c. , Evidence must be ob- tained, and put in legal shape, to prove the heirship of the old man t "Why, but Charlie, doesn't he say so? What more do you want?" Mrs. Armington, not being used to legal technicalities, or the long, mysterious, complicated method of establish- ing things by what is called competent testimony, had but little patience with this mode of procedure, and was unable, for the life of her, to see what the use of it all was; she therefore, more than once, insisted that, if the property belonged to the man, the man should at once go and take it without further ado; and she inti- mated her entire willingness to set out with her stick for the premises, and poke things about, and overturn and overturn, until he whose right it was should reign. Her son, however, explained that this was a land of law, and- such proceedings would hardly be tolerable. "Law, indeed'!" she would exclaim, in contempt. "If a man takes my property, and keeps it, I call him a thief. And you say the state has done the same   THE INFER IOR SEX.        113 thing, and call it Law. I say the state's a thief, and I would not hesitate to tell the proper authorities so- that I wouldn't!" But having her feelings once enlisted in the old man's behalf, and hearing the proper method of pro- cedure explained, she entered into all her son's plans with her accustomed zeal. She watched with interest every step proposed and taken, and her suggestions were often of great practical value. Wom'en are said to be defective in the process of logical reasoning, but they often go straight to a conclusion by an instinct, or intuition, that seenls to be unerring, and many were the knots, bewildering to the son, that the mother helped to unravel. When his plans were foiled, and days and nights of labor seemed to come to a fruitless issue, she was always ready with words of encourage- ment. She inspired him with new devotion, stimulated him to renewed efforts, and was at once the guiding star and propelling power. Emily, too, who was now industriously engaged in preparing for her college course, hearing so much of it around and about her, became unconsciously, but deeply interested, and Mr. Charles now found that no hunter ever had two hounds more keen on the scent, than were his mother and her young friend. It is needless to relate in minute detail all; that tran- spired during the time required to accomplish the end in view. Suffice it to say, that it was finally accom. plished, and with  due legal solemnities Alexander Cummings was restored to the possession of all the worldly gear of his deceased relative, Jean Francois De Beranger. Elated with his success, Master Charles determined \   -114   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR to bear the news in person to his friend, and taking his carpet-sack in hand, set out to visit his hotne in the country. A few hours by rail brought him to a small village not far from where he lived, and procuring a con- veyance, he set forth for their dwelling. The day was bright and beautiful, and he drove slowly along, admiring the beauties of sky and earth. It was in the spring, when the woods and fields were green, and he was charmed with the scenery about him. A little -curious as to the home of his client, he noted the face of the country as he passed. Ascending a hill, he entered a forest of grand old beech trees, where the foliage was so dense the sun's rays could scarcely pen- erate to the earth. Here he stopped a moment to enjoy the intense solitude, where the silence itself seems to speak, and the woods are full of whispers. Emerging into the sunlightsonce more, he passed through a lane, upon one side of which stood the farm- house, which was painted white. Near it was a fine orchard, in which -was a large cider-press. On one side of the house was a porch, and over it running vines clambered; near by was the well, with its huge sweep. On the other side of the lane was a corn-crib and large barn, the yard of which was full of chickens, and orna- mented with a peacock. An old-fashioned oven stood near the house, and as he approached he saw the old man in the act of feeding the fiery furnace. He called to him as he drove up the lane, but as he failed to at- tract attention, he threw down the reins, and bounded over the fence, to communicate the good news. The old man was certainly surplised. He had so long suffered that hope deferred which maketh the   THE INFERIOR SEX.     -    5 heart sick, that it was some time before he could fully realize the fortunate turn affairs had taken. He also now met the Frenchman's wife, a person advanced in years, but upon whom the joyful intelli- gence did not seem to make much impression, As Mr. Charles came into the room in which she was, he found her walking up and down. A piece of twine was stretched from one wall to the other, which she occasionally touched with her fingers, as if to direct her steps. When he spoke to her she stopped, and did not move from her place, but put out her hand un- certainly, appearing to be feeling around as he took it in his own.. He expressed surprise at her remaining in doors when the day was so bright and beautiful without. She answered, with a sadness in her tone he could not help but notice, that the days were much alike to her now. His visit was brief, and when the time came for his departure she went out upon the porch with him, occa- sionally touching some object she passed while moving along. He gave her a chair, and stood by her side as he spoke his parting word. After a few moments, during ,which she seemed to be struggling for power of speech, she said to him, with an .accent that plainly indicated a French origin, "My husband say you be very kind and good to us. Not everybody is, afterwards that we have been old.  I hope so strong that I see you now, but I am  blind; therefore, may I touch upon your face?" It was said so gently, so lovingly, there was such deep pathos in her voice," and he felt such compunction at having said what evinced entire ignorance of her  -     '  *   "6  MRS. ARMNGTON'S. WARD, OR condition, that the tears started into his eyes as he knelt at her side. The taper fingers wandered gently over his face, with a velvet touch upon-every feature, as she moulded before the vision of her soul the lineaments of the countenance upon which her sightless orbs rested. "I thank to you, my son," she said. "I expect that the mother do give to you, altogether, her love, for you are much worth of it. I say to you the good by, and send of my entire gratitude with you."     THE INFERIOR SEX.        117 CHAPTER XII. "AW. BEHOLD, now, the venerable Frenchman in pos- session of his vast fortune--vast to him, the more especially as the latter years, at least, of his life had been spent in penury. But now that he had money, he lived like a lord. He brought his -wife from their poor abode in the far-off woods, and encamped upon his possessions. The income, that had been for years accumulating in the hands of the state authorities, was refunded, in a great measure, there being only a slice taken off here and there by some official who required an inducement of that kind in order to clearly see what his exact duty was. But these small defections did not make any visible impression upon the aggre- gate, which of itself was sufficient to constitute a mod- erate independence. The old man's gratitude to his benefactors and friends--Mrs. Armington, Charlie, and the rest-- knew no bounds. He would fain have divided with them, giving away the largest half; but they bade him enjoy his own, as in all probability there were not many years left him in which to do it.- As his changed condition of life began to work its customary effect, and he no longer felt the humiliation of poverty, it was curious to observe what a different man he became. No one would recognize in the well-dressed, courtly-   "8   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR looking gentleman, the bowed figure of the old pen- sioner, who, travel-worn and footsore, came every six months the distance of seventy miles for the poor pittance of fifteen dollars. Indeed, so impressed did Mrs. Armington become upon better acquaintance with his address and conversation, that she more than once said that she believed he had a history, which, if known, would show that he was of good birth, and she finally gave him the name of the "French noble." Whether wealth or poverty is most to be desired, is still a mooted question; the old saw has it,- ' Those who have money, Are troubled about it; Those who have none, Are troubled without it." Peace was not to be; it is not an article found, in its brightest perfection, here below. The "' Friench noble" was hardly seated in his new home ere the troubles of wealth began. Another claimant to the estate arose. This was about the seventy-fifth. It was a woman, and she told a most singular story. She said she was the daughter of the De Berangers. This was a new feature in the history of mankind. The old man had been so dazed by his good luck, and the whole affair was so like a dream, that after he had actually got his property, it seemed to him as though nothing was more natural than that somebody else should come along and take it away from him. He was greatly startled by this new apparition of danger, and at once consulted his young legal friend, who, to him, was the embodiment of all the wisdom, learning, and law there was in ftheuni- verse. Mr. Charles laughed at the idea. He had beeh   THE I INFERIOR SEX.       119 over the ground often and again. In tracing the his. tory of-Jean FranCois and his wife, he had examined minutely all the facts connected with them. He knew when they came from Canada in 1809, and went to live with Major Daniels. The major was still living, and had a large family of sons and daughters, now grown up, to all of whom the thing was simply prepos- terous. The couple had lived in the major's house many years, and were not only childless, but they had been often heard to regret the fact. Subsequently they had lived with others, who were well-known citizens, many of whom had kept up an acquaintance, as inti- mate as ever exists ibetween employers and employees, until the time of their death, and nothing was clearer than that they never had children. Mr. Charles interviewed the party. She was a stout, thick-set woman, of swarthy complexion and keen black eye, that threatened mischief. She did not look "Frenchy," that was clear, but certainly told a remark- able story, and backed it up by still more remarkable evidence. She had lived in the house with De Beran- ger and his wife, whom she called her mother. There was a well near it, where they were accustomed to get water. She narrated many little circumstances,- alleged to have taken place when she was a child, - some of which Charlie knew to be true. She referred to respectable people, who knew her when young, and who would substantiate her assertions. And they did. Here was a peck of trouble. The more Charlie investigated, the more he was perplexed. Mrs. De Beranger had a daughter. Mrs. De Beranger had no dlaghter. This woman lived in the house with the couple, and passed for their child ; yet it was as clear   120  MdRS. ARMNGTON'S WA RD, OR as the noonday sun that they never had any children. Although he "felt it in his bones," as he expressed himself, that it was all imposition, yet, ash a lawyer, he knew that "bones" were not always the best of evidence in courts of justice. He set himself to work to inquire about the woman. All he could ascertain was, that she had lived in the place - nobody knew how long; all her life, perhaps. Her associations were low, not to say vile. The police all knew lber as a hard drinker, and one who was frequently apprehended as a vagrant, and even for worse crimes. That was about all that could be learned. Considering discretion the better part of valor, Char- lie would have endeavored to effect a compromise; but the vagabond was calm and self-assured, and would have the whole or none. Half was offered, but rejected with disdain, and nothing was left but to fight it out. Shewas not daunted by the prospect of a Clong litigca- tion, with its attendant uncertainties. She frankly- admitted she had no money, but said there were friends who were thoroughly satisfied of the justice of her cause, and who would back her pretensions. There was a confidence in her manner that seemed to show that she at least believed in her rights, and was not prepared to yield them. It would be impossible to trace the lawsuit that fol- lowed through all its various stages of progress. It was tried a number of times. Juries disagreed. They found verdicts for the plaintiff. It was appealed to a higher tribunal, when the last desperate efforts on both sides were made. Eminent counsel appeared pro and con, and all the means and appliances were resorted to to obtain "justice speedily and without delay."   THE INFERIOR    SEX.     121 The plaintiff, who went by the na tne of Elizabeth Armor, and -who was irreverently termed by the police "Black Bet," was bound to take the initiative, and prove her case. The will, by which old De Beranger had bequeathed his property to his wife, was shown, by a duly certified transcript, from' the proper court of probate, the paper being in due form, bearing date as of the year 1828, and attested Wmith the prescribed so- lemnities. Indeed, there was no question made over the document, the real point in controversy was the personal identity of the plaintiff. The general features of the evidence have already been indicated. The plaintiff, in support of her claim, produced numbers of people, well-known citizens, who had lived in the neighborhood of the De Beranger property. They had known the old Frenchman and his wife for many years, and remembered minute par- ticulars as to both. The house in which they lived and rented rooms to occupants was described, as well as the ground where they cultivated their fruits and flowers. A certain well figured in the story, which was on the old maf's premises, and was remarkable for its never-failing volume of water, and as being a place where the neighbors resorted to obtain their supplies of that useful element. They knew Mrs. De Beranghr, and this woman was her daughter, who lived in the house with her. The Frenchwoman was an ardent Catholic, and they were in the habit of seeing her go to church every Sunday with the little girl; she was called daughter, treated as daughter; and daughter she was--no more doubt about that than that the sun shone. They simply relied upon the evidence of their own senses, and having confidence in their eyes Rand   122   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR ears, they had every reason to believe, and did believe, that what they stated was the truth. There could be no flaw discovered in the accuracy of these statements; true, they related to events that had occurred many years ago, but so many asserting the same things constituted a corroboration that seemed impregnable  against attack, nor could it be successfully claimed that age had obscured faculties, and so rendered the narra- tions doubtful. There were plenty of those who had been playmates with the plaintiff in childhood. They told of incidents that would naturally occur. Facts were told in this wise. Robert Alston was duly sworn, in the style to which long habit had familiarized clerks, and which, in its gen- eral effect, leaves upon the minds of witness and by- standers an impression about like this:-  " You sl'mly sw-e-a-r, bu-r-r-r-r-r, s' elp you G'd!" "Knew Mr. and Mrs. De Beranger very well for many years; until the end of their lives was well acquainted with their residence in the suburbs; used to shoot snipe in that neighborhood when a boy; frequently saw Mrs. De Beranger with her daughter Betsey, now here in court; she was a smart, bright little girl; often played with her; sometimes stole her father's cherries; knew her for several years after that; then lost sight of her; did not see her again for many years; then she came up to me, and shook hands with me; did not recognize her at -first; then she told me who she was, and after looking at her again, and talking with her a few mo- ments, then I knew her; saw her again afterwards, at intervals of a year or so. , When I saw the child at home she was gathering chips to make a fire, and her mother would call her to   THE INFERIOR SEX.        123 come and help her in the kitchen. When I met her after she had grown up, I knew her, come to look at her, from her resemblance to her mother--favors her mother very much -never saw a child resemble a parent more.  I am entirely certain that she is the same one, and the daughter of Mrs. De Beranger, whom I knew as a child ;she was then, maybe, ten years of age. When she made herself known to me she spoke about this property, and asked me if I knew anything about it; but I didn't. Old De Beranger had a good many families living in the same house with him; he died in 1832, and his wife the next year." David Hughes: "In the year 1829, travelled with the plaintiff, who was placed under my charge; were in the steamboat together for two days; when we reached home, Elizabeth wanted me to take her home, as it was then dark; had never seen Elizabeth until the time of this journey; took her up to her mothers house, which was near the well spoken of; good many people lived in, this house; her mother came out, and kissed Elizabeth, called her daughter, and was glad to see her; cried over her. Elizabeth introduced me; we went into the house; Mrs. De Beranger thanked me for taking care of her child; staid an hour or two, and went away; called there a great many times after- wards, and saw mother and daughter; afterwards lost sight of Elizabeth for many years; then saw her again here in town; when I first saw her was when she came in the steamboat; she must have been then quite a chunk of a girl." Mary Ann Winston: "Lived near the De Beranger place from 1820 to 1834; knew the French people during that time; indeed, until they died; helped to    124  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR lay the woman out in preparing for her burial; lived a hundred yards from their house; saw them every day. Mrs. De Beranger had children; think two or three; the little girl with black eyes and hair they called Betty; Mrs. De Beranger called her daughter, and she called her mother; saw the girl there several years; she was then twelve or, fourteen, and pretty well grown for that age--fat and plump-like; can't rightly tell what became of this little girl; she went away before her mother died; went to school, I sup- pose; never saw her from that time until recently; met her in the street about dark, and spoke to her, thinking it was another person ; then I apologized, and she says, says she,' Perhaps you do know me, anyhow.' Says I, ' You do look like some one I have seen ; but that person is dead.' .Then she says, says she, ' Who is it what I look like?' And I says, says I, 'I don't know.' Then says she, 'Don't I look like Mrs. De Ber- anger?' And I says,' Yes ;' which it were a fact. Then she comes up, preposterous like, and says, in a dictorial way, ' I'm little Betty -doesn't ye know me?' I was jest took all of a turn, for I was ketched in a predicary, not expectin' of the same. First I thought it was her; then I thought it wasn't; and it was very tryin'. Then she called up old times, which there was a great many ov 'em, I minded me of. Bime-by I see it was her, all to wunst like, for apparently she was the most like her mother ever you saw anything. They was both dark-complected, and stout into their figgers - rather robustious, as you might say. They both had a oval expression of face, and their eyes and hair was mutual. Mrs. De Beranger had black eyes--very large they was; in fact, orbs, they was -orbs! and no livin' soul   THE INFERIOR    SEX.     125 can be a contradictin' of it. You see I knowed 'em both - mother and daughter-- intimate. I used to permeate their house quite regular, and would take my knittin', and have ofen sot and sot for hours just con wersin'." Thus discoursed the garrulous old woman, the art of "conwersin"' evidently being her weakness, as she gabbled by the half hour, each vain attempt to stop her only serving to send her off in a new direction, like a rocket, fizzing and sputtering, to the confusion of all beholders. A complete summary of the evidence is by no means attempted- an outline merely being given of some of the principal points, with here and there a specific item. A jolly, fat butcher-boy- that is, he had been such years ago - testified to a mark on the arm; not the traditionary strawherry mark that identifies the long- lost brother; and restores him to his weeping family; but some cabalistic characters. His evidence was certainly effective.  He stated that he was but a few years older than the daughter of Mrs, De Beranger, having been born and raised within a stone's throw of, their dwelling. The daughter was called Elizabeth; he went to school with her, played with her, quarrelled with hey; pulled her hair, and was boxed in return; had not seen her since he was a boy until that day in court; knew her as Mrs. De Beranger's daughter as soon as he laid eyes on her, and could fix a criterion that would settle the mattel; one way or the other. One day, when they were children, an old Indian who lived in the neighborhood had tattooed the arm of the' little girl with India ink, between the wrist and elbow   126   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR of the left arm. The marks the Indian made were a bow and arrow, a pipe, and the letter B., The witness closed his remarkable statement by extending his arm, and pointing at the plaintiff, and with an excited emphasis saying, "If that be the daughter of Mrs. De Beranger, she has on her left arm, between the wrist and elbow, a bow and arrow, a pipe, and the letter B! If they ain't there, she isn't the daughter of Mrs. De Beranger! The arm was bared in open court, and there were the bow and arrow, pipe, and letter B. As his testi- mony was thus verified, the witness added, "I haven't seen that arm before to-day for twenty-five or thirty year l" The effect upon court, counsel, jury, and spectators was prodigious, and the attorneys for the plaintiff, seek- ing to have the impression made as powerful as could be, allowed the breathless silence which ensued to re- main unbroken by further questions, until the huge bell on the court-house tower struck one, with its deep, heavy tones, that seemed: to startle every one' in the room; and as this was the hour at which the court adjourned for dinner, the adroitness of the lawyers was apparent in so manipulating that the jury should have the full benefit of this scene during the recess before anything else had occurred to impair its force. When the session was resumed, and the defence attempted to shake this evidence by cross-examination, the task was an arduous one. He was dogged, deter- mined, bull-headed. He did not lose his temper; on the contrary, the more-he was badgered, the more good-humored he became; they tried to flatter him, but he was as unsusceptible as a gate-post. He simply   'THE INFERIOR SEX.        127 stuck to his story all the way, with the exception of varying in those unimportant points which rather go to show the truth of the principal matters. And, more- over, there were many others, as it subsequently ap- peared, that were familiar with the circumstancessso far as to remember the specified marks upon the child's arm, and to identify them'now. Still, the course of real litigation, like that of true love, does not always run smoothly, and the cause, as it was being presented in behalf of the plaintiff, had an occasional misadventure. There was one family, who had lived in the same house with the De Berangers, upon whom plaintiff relied greatly : these were father, mother, two sisters, and brother, and they all told the same story. They had lived there -during the decade from 1820 to 1830, or thereabouts, renting their rooms of the old Frenchman. They all knew the plaintiff, and repeated the old story of mother and daughter, which by this time was getting rather tedious. The& old lady's recollection was entirely clear in the matter of dates, for all her children were born in the house. Their ages were all familiar to her, as their births had been all entered in the family Bible at the respective times of their occurrence by her old man, who was very particular to do it upon the very day. They saw the old people frequently, as persons living in the same house naturally would, arid exchanged all that daily intercourse that might be supposed to take place under such circumstances of proximity and intimacy. The old lady, however, was a little twisted upon one point, and that was, her impression was that the plaintiff was the daughter of M3rs. De Beranger, and not of the old man, whereas the general drift of things was the other way, or had been thus far.   128  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR Herb children corroborated her, as far as their remem- brance of events at so early a period could go, although not old enough to say now whether the plaintiff was the child of the mother by a former marriage or not. The husband, too, followed up the wife, and was par- ticular as to chronology. He based his entire recollec- tion upon the matters recorded in the family Bible. This record he himself had made at the time. It ran -back many years prior to 1820, and contained the names of children now deceased, as well as those who were living. The book being produced in court, the old people stuck to their story, that the entries therein appearing had been made at their respective dates, running from the year 1815 to 1831. On turning to the fly-leaf, however, it appeared that the book was not printed until the year 1836.   THE INFERIOR SEX.       129 C H APT E R XIII. PROFANITY. SWEARING is one of the fine arts. Uncle Toby was an artist, although unconsciously so. He probably had no idea that he was giving expression to a classic utterance, still less did he occupy his attention, in the slightest degree, as to the precise course of action the accusing spirit might take in the premises. Whether that amiable soul would bear his remark on mighty pens to those realms whose occupants, in his simplici- ty, he doubtless supposed could be better employed than in treasuring up the little slips of mankind, was not to him a matter of consequence. Had hibeen fully informed of the espionage placed upon hi -most unimportant statements, it is presumable that his bluff, hearty integrity would not have demeaned itself so far as to have caused him to vary from his original design in the slightest particular. And it is, perhaps, a for- tunate circumstance, upon the whole, that the tear which performs so important a function in the narrative discharged its office with the promptness and com- pleteness it did. For, had he ever been arraigned upon the charge, there can be no doubt but that my Uncle Toby would have resented the imputation of moral delinquency with an unction and vigor of injured in- nocence startling to the celestial beings.- If the angels of heaven winked at Uncle Toby's profanity, we need   130  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR not trouble ourselves with too bitth denunciations about it. But different men swear in different manners, --the majority, unfortunately, without any manners at all--and then the practice is not only reprehensible and immoral, but disgusting also. There are individ- uals within the circle of every one's acquaintance, in many respects, persons of refinement, at least in appear- ance, who swear at all times and places, with or without provocation, and who are entirely unconscious of giving offence. Such men are past hope. They cannot be reasoned or expostulated with. The vice is like that of gambling or drinking; when it once fastens on its victim, his case is past praying for. It may be that an age whose tendency is to reform everything, may yet invent an asylum, similar to that for inebriates, where the icorrigibly profane may stiffen their moral joints, and renovate their nature. We do know that there are men who insist that swearing is sometimes a necessity, as it is often a relief; for that it is a relief, under circumstances of peculiar annoyance or irritation, is stoutly claimed. There was a great deal of human nature as well as wit in the re- mark of the lady, whose hurried arrival at the depot only witnessed the rear end of- the last departing car, as another arrival, still more hurried, gave expression to his outraged sense of disappointment and chagrin in the wicked, but appropriate anathema, - "(Blank) that train!" Turning to the baffled way-farer, with a heart full of sympathy, and a gratified look of triumphant vengeance, she quickly observed,-- "Thank you, sir!" It: may be that the profanity upon such occasions   THE INFERIOR   SEX.      131 is not the unpardonable sin; still it seems a useless pastime as a general thing. There is really no good reason why, when moved by great provocation, one set of stereotyped phrases should not afford as com- plete satisfaction as any other, and that when a man is aroused to the highest pitch of anger, instead of swearing the same old oaths, he should not begin to repeat the multiplication table, or, "Hickory, dickory, dock," or, "Simon says wig-wag." It might, perhaps, be amusing, it certainly would be salutary, to see two gen- tlemen, in the heat of violent and acrimonious discus- sion, when it reached its last climax, beginning, one with a rapid reiteration of "Twice two is four;" the other replying, with a bitterness of soul that brooked not control, in a succinct and impressive narration of the performances of the mouse that ran up the Clock. The same vigor of gesticulation might be observed; similar threats, as to human life and limb, might be indulged in; but it would certainly be much better to have the wordy warfare thus proceed, - "I'll cut your - twice seven is fourteen - heart out." "Sir, I'd have you to understand that no- man of your inches can accomplish any such -clock struck one, and down he run, hickory, dickory, dock - adventure." "Sir, I consider you an infernal -three times eight is twenty four-- scoundrel." "Sir, nothing but self-respect -prevents me from punching your- Simon says wig-wag- head." The accumulated wisdom of mankind, however, shows that no such expedient can be successfully re- sorted to, as there are thousands of men who are entirely satisfied that, the proper conditions given, nothing but swearing is of any earthly account. Officers   132  MRS. ARMNGToN'S WARD, OR in the army are firmly impressed with the notion that nothing can be got out of the rank and file without hurling at them profane expletives; and that, moreover, subordinates do not respect superiors who fail in the discharge of this part of their official duty, as there is a prevailing impression among the common soldiers that it is enjoined by the articles of war, and the rules and regulations of the service. The same is true of naval affairs. As a general rule, sailors will scarcely ever work until they get a round or two of hot shot from captain or mate. They do not seem to think the parties are in earnest till the swearing begins, and then their alacrity becomes manifest. Whatever may be the whys and wherefores on this subject, the practice is one which will not probably be dispensed with so long as men remain as at present constituted. This may be deplored, but the fear is that it cannot be helped. In the course of the proceedings, a peculiar instance of harmless profanity was exhibited. An old Frenchman appeared upon the stand, who spoke the English language imperfectly, and who evidently had not the slightest idea that there was any impropriety in the utterances of which he made such fiequent use. The cognomen which the French give the Englishman, when they do not call him "t Monsieur Ros Bif," is pretty gen- erally understood; and it is said that the first words of Albion's tongue the Frenchman learns are those which, as has been intimated, are in the constant employ of both soldiers and sailors. Being ignorant of their im- port, as indeed it would be a difficult task to assign them meaning, and only knowing that all classes, high and low, pall them into constant requisition, the un-    THE INFERIOR - SEX.        133 sophisticated foreigner naturally supposes them to be the most important words in the language. It is said to be a fact - which, if true, is flattering to our sense of originality, at least - that the vocabularies of other nations contain no equivalent, for our expressions of profanity, and it is therefore not remarkable that the people of those nations should use them in utter ig- norance of their application, and without the slightest reference to any idea the speaker desires to convey. Tlhis venerable Frenchman talked to the court and jury, counsel and spectators, and cursed and sworo with a volubility that was amazing. At first it was appalling, and the air seemed almost blue with the verbosity of his imprecations; but as it became appar- ent that he was entirely unconscious not only of any breach of decorum, but of the meaning of half that he said, the affair assumed a' decided aspect of the ludi- crous. He was a short man, perhaps upwards of seventy years of age, with a nose that blossomed like the rose under the influence of the mountain dew. He was remarkably good-natured, and though his answers were short and sharp, it was only from his constitutional or national quickness of manner, and not from any thinglike irritation. His peculiarity of man- ner afforded relief to the tedium of the protracted trial. At the first question, which merely solicited in- foruation as to his age, "O, by (blank)! I cannot tell zis sing." Counsel reprovingly observed, "( You must not swear in court. It is an insult to the court." "O, ze court be (blank) herself." The presiding judge now thought it was time to take it up, as the singular style of response had awakened general attention from the large crowd present, and it really seemed as though *      \  ,            fj, ? - -        A; .      ,:   134  MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR the majesty of the law required proper and instant vindication. "My good man,"' observed his honor, "this sort of thing will not do here. Do you know where you are?"The old man looked up, with a face on which puzzled simplicity was written in every line, and made no reply. Some one then explained that the witness had never before testified in a legal in- vestigation, if, indeed, he had ever been in a court of law, and that lie, in fact, meant no harm. The ruffled feathers of justice smoothed, and the examination proceeded with precisely the same result. It was im- possible for him to open his mouth, but that out flew an oath. "Did you know old De Beranger?" "O (blank), I did know him all ze time, every day." Another attempt, from court and counsel, to reform his manners ensued, at which he manifested the same sense of bewildered astonishment as upon the previous occasion. -He further stated that he "did know Madam De Beranger, but do not knowr her zis time now. She be dead. Ze (blank) old man was dead long time. Zey no tell me eef zey have von leetle chile. If zey have very many small chile, I know noting. Zare vas von, vot you call von (blank) petite girl, viz name Lisbet; some time say Bet. Ah! she von grand rascal, (blank)! She spill ze bucket down ze (blank) well, and ve no get drinks any more. Zen ve scold ze (blank) Lisbet, and Monsieur de Beranger he have one (blank) big r-r-rage, and no get ze bucket up some more." This incident of losing the bucket down the well was one that was referred to by many witnesses as being a cir- cumstance that fixed their belief that the plaintiff was   THE INFERIOR SEX.       135 135 the person she pretended to be, as there was abundant proof that some child -- a girl - had so lost the bucket, much to the wrath of the old Frenchman, who had spent two days in the vain endeavor to fish it up, and was then constrained to procure a new one. I1 :    136  MRS. ARMNGTON'S' ARD, OR CHAPTER XIV. MESSRS. CHARLES AND ROB COMMENT UPON THE FOREGOING. "WELL, Mr. Charles, this is what I should call a first-class muddle. I suppose you have some confi- dence in your cause; but how do you get over what we have been listening to for the last few days?" "It is sometimes well, my young friend, to hear both sides of a story before finally deciding upon it. I can appreciate the frame of mind of the Dutch justice, who, when he had listened carefully to the story of one party, and had followed it through without- difficulty, declined to hear the other for fear of confusing his great intellect; but this is not always the best way of arriving at a correct result." "Your proposition is true; but we have now heard her story through, from the mouths of fifty-five wit- nesses upon the stand, as well as an incredible number of depositions, and it certainly seems to me the jury is against you." "Juries, Rob, are the palladium of liberty, and the bulwark of our rights, and all that sort of thing; but when the constitution guaranteed this sacred right to every man, it guaranteed the most sacred humbug that is now in existence." "You, a lawyer, and asperse after that fashion those institutions for which our fathers fought, bled, and   THZE INFERIOR SEX.       137 died,- for which the Pilgrims came over the dark and stormy sea--" c, And have been coming it over mankind ever since!  "Mr. Charles, you should be attached for contempt of court: first, for treason to your native land; second, for bringing the administration of justice into disre- pute." ,' I've nothing, Rob, particularly against the Puritans, except that they were about as overrated a set of men as we have at any time imported. Bult this matter of juries, which is of English origin, was invented as a sort of breakwater to stand between the people and power, and, as such, was a useful thing at a time when tyrants frowned down right, and trampled upon mankind- 'by the grace of God.' Perhaps it is well enough now in criminal procedure, but in its universal applica- tion to civil matters it is a relic of the dark ages." "You -are a radical, my brother, and like Sydney Smith's man, who committed the heinous offence of speaking disrespectfully of the equator, I should not be it all surprised to hear you lampooning the great writ of habeas corpus. Did you get out of bed wrong end irst this morning? Or what is the matter?" "O, no, I'm in a good enough humor; but you must not commit yourself too fast. If a man takes a set one way in a disputed question, it is hard to budge him, as he generally does not wish to be. 'Convince a man against his will, He'll be of the same opinion still.'" "I am open to conviction, and will listen with defer. rnce to what you have to say; but you must admit, I ;               4  ,-         @   138  MRS. ARMNGTOYrS WARD, OR think, that the case is strong against you up to this stage of the game." "I admit it without hesitation, that is, upon a cur- sory examination; but I think even now that much of it can be shaken, if not entirely destroyed. You ob- serve that there appears to be one matter at issue, and but one; and that is, Is this woman the daughter of De Beranger and wife? or of Mrs. De Beranger? In one phase, therefore, as has been frequently observed upon both sides in the conduct of the cause, it is a ques- tion of personal identity." "And I do not see how that can be, or ought to be, such a complicated business, Charlie, or one of such- difficult solution. - If I see a man whom I knew years ago, when I was a boy, and remember him, why, cer- tainly I know him - and bow am I to get around it? And this is just what all these people say. If I go away from you for twenty years, and meet you, again --how is it possible for me to be mistaken about your personality?" "Hold on there! Not too fast, Robin Adair! Are you not just assuming the point at issue when you as- sume that you do meet me? Suppose you meet some one who called himself me, but wasn't--then what would you say?" "I should observe to that gentleman. 'Do you sup- pose I'm a sucker?" "Well, Bob, perhaps you would, and perhaps you wouldn't, and not be a fish of any kind either. I tell you, it is just exactly such questions as this that are more difficult to be determined by a legal investigation than any other; for the history of legal procedure, and the experience of professional men, go to show that   THE ZNFERIOR SEX.        139 there is no problem so difficult of satisfactory solution as this exact one of personal identity." "Why, you amaze me again! Is there anything certain in what you call law? Do I not know myself? Am I anybody else? And, if yea, name him!" "Reserve your jokes, and I'll put it to you now how easily mistakes may be made in this very matter you deem so simple, and how easily an imposition may be started, and how successfully it may be kept up by an artful individual upon one who has no reason to sus- pect that a game is being played, and is therefore thrown entirely off his'guard.  'Doubtless the pleasure is as great Of being cheated as to cheat.' "People are taken in, deceived, wheedled, in the most absurd manner every day, - that is, it is absurd after the cheat is exposed; and then mankind says, 'Why, how could you! ' "A man stops you in the street, and seizes you cor- dially by the hand, calling your name. You look at him intently, but have never seen the face before. You proclaim that he has the advantage of you. You are requested to ,look again. Your scrutiny is repeated. and redoubled, but without recognition. Did you stop here, and go away, you would never know who it was; but the man says, 'Why, I'm John Smith.  We were schoolboys together.' Perhaps he refers to some inc i- dent in early life, which you may or may not recall; but there was a John Smith, with whom you did go to school, whereupon you straightway observe, 'Well, you've changed so I never should have known you.' The fact of the business is, his mere assertion has fixed ?   "O   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR his identity, and you accept that assertion in the pro found belief that it is your own conviction. You -after wards meet him, day by day, without further particulal intercourse, he simply assuming all the time the role of Smith. Were you thereupon called into a court of justice, you would unhesitatingly swear that this was Smith, with whom you was a schoolfellow, and whom you had known since boyhood; and yet you would simply be testifying, not to your own knowledge, but to his assertion, which you had accepted as a veritable fact." "Do you think, Charles, that this device has been re- sorted to here?" "I will recall some of the evidence, and leave you to judge. You may remember the witness, Robert Al- ston, who testified upon the fourth day of the trial-- tall man with red whiskers?" "Yes, I do remember him, and also remember being particularly impressed with his evidence." "Let us see, then, if it will stand fire. You remem- ber he says he knew her when a girl, and" then lost sight of her for many years,--had, in fact, forgotten her. She met him again, came up, and shook hands, as he says. He did not know her at all, and, if left to his own memory, never would have known her. But she tells him who she is; then he knows her. Now, suppose any other stranger had done the same, Alston would have swallowed the whole thing just as readily. A sufficient amount of assurance will carry captive a -not unwilling belief; so that you can lie a person into the certainty of identity, or out of it, either."- "There is some truth in your last proposition," said Rob, "for I shall never forget a scene that occurred in   THE INFERIOR SEX.        141 Broadway, New York, between that consummate scamp, Austin Hareton, and his father. A half-dozen of us, one term time, concluded to cut college for a few days, and go down to Gotham to see the opera, and look round a little. Austin was very much afraid of meet- ing his father. They lived in New York, you know. Sure enough, we were going up street, and I heard him exclaim,' There's the governor now!' A tall, dig- nified gentleman stepped up to him, with a surprised expression of countenance, and observed, rather sharp- ly,' Why, Austin, what are you doing here? I thought you were at college.' "The graceless wretch drew himself back, and, with a tone and manner as though greatly offended, said, 'Sir, have you not made a mistake? You are unknown to me.' "The old gentleman was somewhat shaken, but again returned to the onset, withy less determination, how- ever, than in his first attack,' You are Austin Hareton - are you not? My son, at present a member of the sophomore class at -' "'My name, sir, is William Elthun. I am a cotton- broker, from South Carolina, at -present on a visit to friends in this city. I was prepared to think you in- -tended to insult me; but, from what you say, I pre- sume no Offence was intended.' "Hareton pere was aghast. He stood bewildered, and looked perfectly foolish, as he replied,' O, no offence intended, I assure you, Mr. Elthun. I thought you were my son; but, upon examining more closely, I see I am mistaken, though the resemblance is very striking. You will excuse me, Mr. Elthun.' "'0, certainly, sil; certainly, Mr.- Mr.-- What did you say was the name?'   "2  MRS. ARMNG-TON'S WARD, OR "(' Hareton --Daniel Hareton, 39 University Place.' "'Not at all offended, Mr. Hareton. Accept my card. Should be: pleased to meet you again, Mr. Hare- ton. Good morning!' "And the impudent vagabond actually handed him a card he had picked up in Wall Street somewhere, with ' Wm. Elthun, Cotton-broker,' upon it, and went of; leaving the old man standing on the sidewalk, with the card in his hand, and his mouth open, staring stu- pidly out upon the wide, wid, world." "I remember that trick of Hareton's, Bob, but it has been often done before; and it only serves to show how little confidence individuals have, either in themselves or their opinions, and how easily those opinions may be overthrown or established. "I referred a moment ago to the testimony of Rob- ert Alston. He is only one of a large number who have testified in a' precisely similar way. They were accosted by a stranger in the street; stranger announ- ces herself as the daughter, &c.; ergo she is the daugh- ter, and they swear to it, and would swear to it until they were black in the face." "Still, Charlie, you do not give the whole of it. Suppose she has imposed on this class of witnesses: there are plenty left upon whom she has not so im- posed; and there is the remarkable fact of the arm, and many similar instances, that she is, beyond perad- venture, the daughter of-" "Somebody, no doubt. I have been directing your mind to the matter of this imposition of one's identity, not really with a view to show that this woman has practised it with regard to herself. The real question relates not so much to her as to another individual.     THE  INFERIOR  SEX.      143 In other words, I 'do not doubt but that the little girl whom Alston and' a dozen or twenty others knew years ago was the same identical individual who sub- sequently extended greeting, as a stranger, in the streets and market-places. But you have now tacitly yielded the point that such an imposture was possible, not only possible, but, under certain circumstances, the most probable." "I do not exactly discover your objective point, but for the sake of the argument, suppose we consider it admitted." "That being granted, the imposition, deceit, or what- ever you choose to call it, relates to the mother, not to the daughter; and she is the object of real interest in this investigation." "Why, there is no dispute-is there?-but that De Beranger did have a wife." "None at all." "Then this woman is called, and recognized, as the daughter of Mrs. De Beranger - is she not?" "That is not conceded yet a while." "Then how is it, most sapient barrister?" "I have no doubt but that this woman and her daughter did live in De Beranger's house. The earli- est date at which they are fixed there is the year 1828. You will also remember that there were other women, and other daughters, that lived there, too, both before and after that time, though they were not all wives and daughters of the old Frenchman. You remember that he had a large number of tenants -single persons and families with children. Now, why is it not possi- ble that the witnesses, at this lapse of time, through the treachery and uncertainty of memory, have con-   "4   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR founded the real Mrs. De Beranger with this woman's mother? The case has now been pending for years: of course each person sticks to his opinion more tena- ciously the oftener he repeats and swears to it; and this is the only way I can see to reconcile the great conflict on this subject. I am satisfied that this woman and her claim are both humbugs, although I am free to confess that the legal evidence to demonstrate it is- not as clear as I might wish." "Which means, it isn't clear at all," said Rob. "That is the way I should put it," returned Charlie, "if I was on the other side. But the fact is, the plain- tiff has varied her tactics since the war began. In the early stage of' the cause, her claim was, that she was the daughter of the old man and his wife. Now, you will observe, there is a misty haze over the question whether she is the daughter of the old man, or of the wife by a former marriage; and even her counsel, you will notice, are not altogether agreed on this point, so that it stands in a sort of dual aspect: the daughter of both, if it will win; or of the mother, if that is the strongest card. That is the reason the will of old De Beranger is put in evidence. If she were his daughter, that would be superfluous, as she would inherit his property as his heir; but if she is not his daughter, but his wife's, then the will is a necessary link in her chain, as without it the estate would go, not to her children, but back to her husband's heirs. This double game is of itself evidence to me of rascality. She is no spring chicken, and she knows well enough whose daughter she is." "So your theory, then, is that these people have made a mistake between this woman's mother and Mrs. De Beranger?"     THE' INF- RIOR SEX.      145 "That is my idea, Rob." "Well, Charlie, between you and me, I am a little afraid that your theology will not hold water, when you get before that enlightened tribunal known as the 'bul- wark of our liberties.'" "Withhold your opinion until you hear all that is to be said, as I desire to experiment upon you as though you were an impartial, candid arbiter; and if; upon a full and fair showing, I fail to convince you, I may well despair of influencing those who are not so well dis- posed towards me." "I am sorry, Charlie, I cannot be present at the whole trial; but I must-go away to-morrow upon an absence of several days, and must therefore miss your side of the case." "I can, however, Rob, tell you our whole story upon your return; and if then you are unshaken in your be- lief, I shall think that our cause is hopeless."   I *    146   MRS. ARMNGTO"rS WARD, OR f CHAPTER XV. CHARLIE'S NARRATIVE. So, after a week had elapsed, the evidence had nearly concluded, when- the brothers were again to gether; Rob anxious to know what the aspect of thing, was. "As you already know, Rob, they had, sixty-foul respectable, disinterested witnesses, all swearing vigor ously one way; and we had sixty-nine respectable disinterested witnesses swearing just the other." "In that case, Charlie, why did you not take and put them all on the hay-scales, to see on which side the weight of evidence was?" "Doubtless that would have been just as well; bul that certainty of judicial test has not yet been arrived at, under the present forms of procedure. But to re- turn. We began, of course, with Major Daniels, who told his story, as you already know it; asserting his acquaintance with the De Berangers, from the-time they came here, until their decease; and he was positive they had no children. Then- there was Mrs. Daniels and all the family; you know there are several children, sons l/ }and daughters, now grown up, who of course reiterated the same story. The other side endeavored to elicit the fact, that the Daniels must have lost sight of them, at least in some degree, as the intimacy between people   ;I        THE NINFERIOR SEX.       147 and their domestics was not so close as to enable them to be so positive in their assertions as they were. They were plied with the question in every variety of shape -' Was it not possible for Mrs. De Beranger to have had o dchild, and yet they be ignorant of the fact?' Some of the younger members of the family were a little shakcn on this, and after being pressed pretty hard ad- mitted that such a thing might be, though it was hardly probable. "They tried this game on Mrs. Daniels, the old lady, but did not take much by the motion. She had never been a witness on the former trials, although she had heard of the case ever since the suit was first brought; and whenever it was spoken of in her presence, it never failed to excite her indignation at the swindle, as she called it, of trying to prove that the De Beranger's had a child. You know what a sweet, gentle person she is. Well, we tent to see her, and Wilford talked over the matter with her. It moved her greatly to think that such an imposition, as she called it, should be attempted. She was entirely clear in her recollection, and insisted that she had known Mrs. De Beranger all her life, who had lived in her own house with her for very many ye nrs; and from the acknowledged age of the plaintiff, she must have been quite a girl at that time; and she insisted that the story, as told her, was absolutely im- possible. "She was considerably nervous about appearing in court, as she had a dread of the notoriety attaching to such a step, and was fearful that she would be- come confused, and unable to make herself intelligible. We, howeler, told her simply to answer the questions put, and tate only facts within her 'own knowledge, I * : \    i1 :148      MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR and not surmises or hypotheses, no matter how well founded she mighlt deem them to be. "When she came upon the stand, two or three unim- portant questions were asked, such as, how long she had lived in the city; where her place of residence was; and at last we approached the issue as to her knowledge of the De Berangers. "By this time the crowd, her novel situation, and the imposing grandeur of the temple of justice, had some. what embarrassed her, and she felt her wits starting to gather wool. Feeling herself going, she determined to tell her tale before she lost consciousness. She knew what she was there for, and was only anxious, to do her duty before it was too late. So she went at it like a bullet at the mark. 6"'Yes! I know the De Berangers never had any children. They lived with me nearly six years, per- haps longer; and neither the old man nor his " granny," as he called her, ever had children. 'He always called his wife " granny."'- As she began to. talk, however, she regained her composure, and went on. 'The old man was very fond of children, and would often take my Nellie,-she would come running out to him, when he was working in the garden,-and no matter-what. he was doing, he would stop and play witheher; take her up and toss her in the air, at which she would scream with delight. Then he would hug and kiss the little thing; take her all around the garden, picking for her the finest flowers he could find, which he wreathed in her hair. He would fill her lap with roses- indeed, he fairly idolized the child. "' He has often said to me, in his broken way, for he always spoke English with some difficulty, "Ah!   Madame Daniel, if we had only von leetle chile -one leetle flower like yours." "There can be no doubt about the fact of his being without children.'  "And in reply to further query, she said that-he had no second wife. Was entirely certain of it. Hardly, perhaps, could give the reason why, but was as well satisfied as that Major Daniels had no second wife. It was entirely impossible as long as she herself was alive in the capacity of first wife.  "Mild as she was in her character, she could not be - moved from these convictions; and pressing her upon the subject only made her more positive. They tried to cross-examine, but it only made matters worse. Once, or twice they disconcerted her, but she always returned to the proposition, that whatever else might be true, or might not be true, the fact that De Beranger and, wife were childless throughout their whole lives, was one thing about which there could be no dispute. So they gave her up in despair.  ("The testimony of the Daniels was followed up by a huge mass of like import; every one with whom they had lived, those with whom they had done business, and tlose with whom they had had intimate social relations. Mrs. De Beranger was a devout 'Catholic, and we had hei falther confessor, who knew her for ten years. Al- though 'e would not undertake to be positive that she was childless, he said he thought it highly im- probable that she should have had a daughter with- out his being aware of the fact; though it might be possible. "We had two women who lived in De Beranger's house, when they were about ten years old; the children    [1    150  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR  of a Mrs. Roland; one of whom said that she was the little girl who-lost the bucket down the well, about which so much was said; and also that she went about with Mrs. De Beranger a great deal; and that Mrs. De Be- ranger had declared her intention at various times and occasions of adopting her. "You will remember that some of the plaintiff's testimony makes -mention of more than one little girl. "This Julia Roland also testified, that after her father and family moved away from De Beranger's house they lived near by; that old De Beranger made a visit to France, and Mrs. De Beranger sent for her (Julia) to come and stay with her while the old man was gone; that she did so; that she staid there after he came back, and all the time up to his death. That her own father died during the time, and her mother married again, against the wishes of her children, and the family was broken up; that she then had no home but with Mrs. De Beranger, with whom she staid until her death. That Mrs. De Beranger was a strict Cath- olic, and she often took her to church. Remembered losing the bucket down the well, because Mrs. De Be- ranger whipped her for it; and it was the only time she ever did whip her. "She described Mrs. De Beranger as having light hair, blue eyes, and fair complexion, and speaking, with strong French accent. "You remember, Rob, that the plaintiff gives her mother dark hair, eyes, and complexion, so that some mistake is apparent." "Yes! but Charlie, that is a sword that cuts two ways; for if there was a marked distinction, as you in- sist, between the appearance of the two women, how   is it possible for the plaintiff's witnesses to be so mis- taken?" asked Rob. "Because they did not see the real Mrs. De Beranger, and did see the plaintiff's mother," replied Charles. "( But Julia Roland's testimony is still stronger. She says, that after her father's death her mother gave her to Mrs. De Beranger; that Mrs. De Beranger always treated her as herl own child, and told others that she was adopted; that she had often told the priest that she had no relation in the world but her husband, and that she had never had a child. This witness also is par- ticularly corroborated by an an old Frenchwoman who lived in the house as tenant; she testifies to Julia's losing the bucket down -the well; to the adoption and treatment by Mrs. De Beranger. She says, that Mrs. De Beranger frequently spoke of Julia as her child; that she bought shoes and clothes for her, and acted as she would to her own daughter. She, too, scouts the idea, as they all do, that is all on our side, of Mrs. De Beranger's having a daughter of' her own. "But what is strongest on our side is the evidence one which the last verdict was set aside; the previous jur, you remember, hung, eleven obstinate men against the cause of truth and justice. "This new evidence gives us what was neverknown, when the case first started, namely, the complete history of the plaintiff. This she had always been careful to conceal; and her first attempt was to prove herself the daughter of old De Beranger, which she did, and ob- tained a verdict which necessitated an appeal. Now that we know who she is, her claim is, that she is a step- daughter, - De Beranger having married her mother. "We have now the evidence of her own father, one   152  vMRS. ARM1NGTON'S WARD, OR or two uncles, several cousins, and a half-brother. She was born in the State of Vermont; her father's name was William Castor, who married her mother there; we have the certificate of the marriage, showing it to have taken place at a certain date. The old gentle- man seems to have had a talent for matrimony, as he took unto himself five separate ribs, at various times. Elizabeth's mother was the first wife, with whom he lived until November, 1825, when he seems to have left her, without any particular amount of ceremony. The plaintiff, Elizabeth, was born in November, 1823; his other children by that wife are dead, or probably they would be heirs of Mrs. De Berauger too. The maiden name of Elizabeth's mother was Ellen Mosby, and she was a ranting Methodist; appears to have been a frantic devotee at camp-meeting and the like. William Castor and his wife were divorced in the year 1825. Elizabeth seems to have remained with her father, with whom she came to Eglinton in the year 1828. She then lived at various places, wander- ing about considerably from county to county, and state to state. "About these facts there appears to be no dispute; for though she first tried to deny them, and even went so far as to deny any knowledge of her uncles and cousins, yet she found that would not do, and gave it up. - Betsey's story, as she told it on the stand, conflicts with her father's in many particulars. She admits that she came to Eglinton in the year 1828, for the first time, but that she came with her mother; and she iur- ther says that that was the year in which her mother first came; and when she had been off in the country,    z  vrl1 jtaflrt olYA .   153 to some place, she came back with Robert Alston to her mother's house, who was then Mrs. De Beranger. ,( And about this matter of names, there was quite a scene in court the day Betsey's uncle testified. After he had finishedr we rather surprised the plaintiff by calling her to the stand. Mr. Wilford put her through another rather severe examination, although lhe had ha rried her for several hours a few days before. She had the boldness to deny her own relations; averring that she had never seen them before, and did not know who they were.  She denied the name of her mother, until at one point, aggravated beyond endurance, Wil- ford rose, stood before her, and with a very impressive manner, said, 'Look upon your uncle, Henry Castor, -look steadily in his face, and state upon your oath, slowly and distinctly, the Christian and maiden name of the mother who bore you?' "'m The woman was so startled that she stammered out, 'My mother's name was Ellen -' Then she stopped, evidently very much agitated, and the room was still as death. Collecting her wits, howevel; she resumed, in a defiant way, 'Gabrielle; I did not recollect the name at first, but Gabrielle was the name she went by when I first remember.' It was plain, though, that she had betrayed herself. Wilford did it in his best style."   154   MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XVI. THE MDNIGHT ADVENTURE.  CHARLIE and Rob were sitting together, and the great lawsuit engrossed their thoughts. "I have given the matter," said the former, breaking a silence that had been long continued, "all the consideration of which I am capable. I have read every paper in the cause, from beginning to end, even the writs and all the merely formal writings that are to be found in the entire proceedings from first to last. I do not:know remember to have heard a distinguished lawyer say, that when he was employed in a cause, the first thing he did was to read, carefully, every piece of writing there was upon the files of the court. It struck me as such an eminently practical rule that I have always followed it. Sometimes with great advantage, though I confess that in the present case I do not seem to have accomplished anything by it. As affairs stand, it appears to me the plaintiff must succeed, although I am perfectly confident that that success will be the triumph of injustice and iniquity." "Why, Charlie," interposed Rob, "I thought the law was the perfection of reason, the accumulated wis- dom of ages, and all that sort of thing. How, then, can it be that injustice and iniquity can triumph?" The slight touch of sarcasm in the speakers tone of F;   THE INFERIOR SEX.        155 voice irritated the young lawyer; but he only replied to the effect that he would leave no stone unturned to defeat the consummation of wickedness. "Here," resumed Charlie, slowly, and as though talk- ing to himself, "are witnesses by the dozen; respect- able, upright men and women, perfectly disinterested; people who are well known throughout the community ! for their integrity, and they all unite in their evidence that this woman is the daughter of Gabrielle De Beranger. True, there are many just as good persons who affirm that Gabrielle De Beranger had no daughter. But the evidence of one person, who says he knew and saw a certain individual, will outweigh that of a dozen who say there is no such person in existence. Unless, therefore, we can get hold of something that will upset all these theories and counter theories on the subject of personal identity, we must fail. But," he went on to say, with a degree of animation that startled his brother, "so related are all the affairs of human life, that whenever a false hypothesis is- started, in other words, whenever a lie is manufactured, as I know this is, there will sooner or later appear some little fact, which can neither be denied or explained away, that controls the whole tissue of falsehood. We speak of a lie made out of whole cloth. The figure is not inapt. There is always some particular thread which, being cut, unravels the whole fabric into simple and palpable yarn. Now Rob," he continuted, with increasing en- thusiasm, 'this potent, controlling fact exists some- where in this case. What it is, or where it is, I do not know, and so I intend to find it. "Rob, you have read Dugald Stewart?" "Philosophy of the Mind?" "Yes!"   156   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR The transition was so abrupt that Rob could not refrain from laughing, as he exclaimed, "And what has Dugald Stewart to do with the case of Armor vs. De Beranger! Is he an authority in point?" , That's exactly what he is. You have paid more attention than I have to studies regarding the oper- ations of the human mind; but I take my cue/from the old Scotchman, and if you will listen, I will tell you what I have been doing, and what I intend to do. Not long after I came into the case, I found out, what every one else knows, that the plaintiff is tone of the lowest, most degraded members of society. She is artful and clnning; but her associations, her life, and all her surroundings are of the most depraved char- acter. I have had her watched, followed, in short "shadowed," as the police say. You may say that this is rather a poor instance of the honorable practice of our profession. But she is no better than a thief at heart, and I treat her as a thief. I know where she lives; the room in which she sleeps. A woman, in my pay, has slept in the same bed with her; and, not to make a short-story too long, I have discovered one fact which I intend to make use of. Among other things, she is a hard drinker, and though generally vol- uble enough upon topics of general interest, yet upon the subject of her legal affairs she is as tight as wax." "Probably schooled by her counsel," obseirved Rob. -"I merely mention the fact. It would be invidious to attribute it to a cause; but certain it is, that drunk as she may be, and garrulous as drunk, turn the sub- ject for a moment on her case and she is as dumb -as a sphinx. What I intend to do is this. I shall go to her, and she stall tell me what is the fact, which I have   THE INFERIOR SEX.        157 told you is the leading, controlling, potential fact. The -fact which will tear to pieces all the cobweb tissue of lies that she has spun; the fact which will brand her as a perjurer; and turn her out of court as an outlaw and felon." "' And long may it wave, O'er the land of the free,' &c., Added Rob, as a climax to his brother's flight of fancy. "And how, Mr. Barrister, are you thus to save injured innocence, and bring discomfiture to the evil- minded ones? If you will permit me to put one or two plain questions, perhaps they may develop practical results.." Charlie lit a cigar, threw himself back in his chair, put his heels up against the mantel-piece in the favorite attitude of Columbia's sons, and regarding his brother with the composure and self-complacency of one who was master of the situation, made the single observa- tion, "Begin." Rob. "And how do you say you purpose to over- come this woman?" Chas. "As Samson overcame the Philistines, with the jawhone of an ass. I shall talk to her " Rob. "She has been a witness- at all the various trials?"             - Chas. "Yes." Rob. "All your counsel cross-examine her?" Chas. "Verily. At the second trial Mr. Wilford, the best cross-examiner in the state, worried her for seven hours."          j Rob. "And got nothing out of her?"5 Chaas. "Got nothing out of her." Rob. "At the last trial you examined her yourself   158  MRS. ARMNGTON'S' WARD, OR a whole day, and said you were going to break her down." Ch as. "True bill."' Rob. "And what happened?" Chas. "She didn't break worth a cent." Jrob. "Smart woman, wasn't she?" Chas. "Lightning in petticoats " Rob. "Cannot see it, Charles, nor any portion of the same." Chas. "I do not suppose you can; but I shall do it, nevertheless. I shall have it out of her. I shall plough with that identical heifer." Rob. "Explain yourself, man alive. How shall you obtain speech of her?" Chas.- A Shall seek her bower." Rob. "C In the slums of Rat Row? It's as much as your life's worth to go there. You'll have your throat cut." Chas. "It is a rough place to visit, that is true; still I have made up my mind to go, and go I will." Rob. "Make your will first, and get your life insured." Chas. "The undertaking, I admit, is attended with somewhatof danger, as Jarvis informs me she lives among the lowest haunts of thieves and desperadoes. I have not, however, intimated to you by what means I ex- pect to extract from her the information which I desire. It is stated by the author, to whom I have referred, in his chapter on the subject of sleep and dreams, that the mind is never in a condition of absolute repose, although the body may be. I do not now intend to deliver a lecture on the phenomena of sleep, and enter into that wide field of speculation on the subject which has occupied- the attention of so many philos-   THl 1A F.t9elUn IJAX.     159 ophers, and is so fascinatiug to all who have given it any serious thought. A full knowledge of the rela- tions between mind and body during sleep, and the exactdifference between the conditions of the mind when we are awake and when we are asleep, can never be ascertained, for the simple reason that, to arrive at this knowledge, a man must needs be awake in order to note the operations of his mental organization when he is asleep. I do not know that I can state my point any better than by putting it, as I have, in the exact form of an Irish bull. There are, however, some things we do know. We are accustomed to say, that after a profound sleep we awake refreshed in mind and body. And this seems to be true. There is that state of absolute repose which is described by saying, that we slept like a top, or slept like a log, during which there does not seem to have been any operations of the mind whatever; at least, no trace is left of them which comes to our waking moments. We lie down, and when morning comes it seems as though scarcely any time had elapsed since we dropped off into the land of visions. It is claimed that even in this state of unconsciousness the mind is still in operation, more or less active. These operations are- called dreams. In some cases they are remembered when we awake, in some they are not. But it is easier to assert than prove that the mind always works; for if you remem- ber a dream of one night, it is singular evidence to demonstrate the fact of dreaming another night, when you do not remember it. Again, it is said that there is a state of semi-unconsciousness, - being the moment be- tween sleeping and waking, when the mind is just starting up to renewed operations, during which the   160 - MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR phenomenon of dreaming is manifested. It is, perhaps, but a moment of time; but that moment is sufficient for the mind to imagine the events of years. There seems to be some plausibility in this view, and, in con- sequence, it has been supposed that the mind is not continually working during all the hours of slumber, but is in a state of absolute quiescence when that slumber is absolutely profound. In proof of this, it is said that if some unusual occurrence takes place, it may have the effect of partially awakening the sleeper; and, if the thing were repeated, he would become wide awake; but, the disturbing cause removed or with- drawn, he relapses into his former condition. For instance, there is a' sudden cry of fire, which startles the sleeper; if repeated, he would be thoroughly aroused; but this not occurring, he sinks back into his former condition, and reports in the morning that he dreamed about fire. Now-was he sound asleep and dreaming, or was he half awake and thinking? "If this suggestion be the true one, that dreaming is not an operation of sleep, but of a partial awakening, and the result of the fact that the mind has got so far awake as to begin to think again, it accounts for the generally known fact, that in supposed sleep the mind is occupied with that which-occupied it when awake. If we are engaged in a matter of unusual interest and importance, we are said to dlream about it. It is stating it better to say, that when we begin to wake, we re- sume the subject dropped when we went to sleep, and wlen we get wide awake, we think we have been dreaming about it all night; when, in point of fact, it has been entirely forgotten, except for that brief instant just before opening our eyes.   "I only now desire to call your attention to the fact, whichever of these speculations may be correct, that the mind, in sleep, does at times dwell, or may be brought to dwell, upon those topics that most interest us when awake. "I can hardly see how the hypothesis of Stewart, and of-others too, can be- correct, when it describes sleep as a condition in which the mind loses all control over the body. If this happens, how does one kick in his sleep? Kicking, I take it, is the result of an exercise of will, whether done asleep or awake. In sleep, the act may be objectless and pointless; awake, it may be, and generally is, an expression of feeling; but in both cases it must be an act of the will. And again, many bodily acts are performed during slumber: we, throw our arms about, roll out of bed, and things of that sort. You remember, Rob, that trick you played upon Green, in college, when you laid a wager with him that you could steal the sheet from under him while asleep, without waking him up. It was a mere boyish trick, but one which proceeded according to the most pro- found principles of the human' mind. You argued, that in sleep the mind did not lose absolute control over the functions of the body, and that the same causes produced the same effects when asleep or awake. You therefore folded the sheet up compactly close to his person; you then tickled him, gently, on the side opposite; of course he rolled over, just as when you tickle a child, on the floor, they roll, and flounder about, to get away. So Green rolled, and brought himself flat on his face on the folds you had so neatly mnade. A little more tickling, and he rolled clear off, and you bore aloft the sheet in triumph. Is .it not now fair to   Ij .  162  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR suppose that we can, in some way, operate upon the mind of a sleeper through the medium of the senses, so as to cause the body to indicate, by certain outward, visible, or audible demonstrations, the current of one's thoughts. I remember travelling with a friend once, who had a large amount of money upon his person, about which he was exceedingly solicitous; so much so, indeed, that he did not even tell me, though travel- ling the same journey with him, and although our in- timacy was close, where the money was upon him, and so I amused myself by experimenting, with a view to finding out. He was much addicted to sleeping in the cars, and when he dozed off, I began to finger, lightly, about his clothes, not pronounced enough to waken him, but as distinctly as I dared without doing so. The first movement he made was that of his right arm. After a pause, I renewed my manipulations. The same arm moved again. This was done several times with the same result. What I originally expected was, that he would clap his hand on the pocket where the treasure was concealed; and from his moving his right arm, I of course inferred it was in one of his left pockets, as a single motion of the hand would cover the right side of his person, while it would require an extension of the whole arm to reach the left. At my next at- tempt, as one of the light-fingered gentry, a sudden lurch of the car caused me to give him an inadvertent, but most unconscionable poke, which almost woke him up; whereupon he moved both arms, as though he would bring them together. This, of course, brought the facts in direct conflict with my first theory; still I consoled myself with the reflection that is always open to every true philosopher, - so much the worse for your F.: - *   THE INFERIOR SEX.        163 facts, --and awaited the issue. I confess, however, that I was foiled in my experiments upon his somnolency; but when we reached our joulney's end, and were pass- ing out of the depot together, there was a large crowd of hacklnen and loafers in general, and some one bawled out, 'Beware of pickpockets.' At this, I observed that my friend, with a quick movement, brought his arms together, and threw his right hand, with the thumb on the inside and the fingers on the outside of his left elbow, as though he was measuring the circumference of the arm at that point. The act was instantaneous; and as he did so, I observed that he looked warily about him. When we reached our room at the hotel, and were renovating our personal appearance, I carelessly observed, 'Harry, why do you carry that money sewed up in the inside sleeve of your left elbow?'  He started, as if he had been shot. ' How did you know that?' he said. I told him I only guessed; but it did turn out that he had a number of bills, of large denomination, in the inside of that elbow, and when- ever desirous of reassuring himself he would span the elbow with his thumb and finger, and by the pressure would feel the bills. He was evidently trying to do this in his sleep, though I failed to bring him to the' point. I am, nevertheless, satisfied that had I con- tinued my operations, under favorable circumstances, his unconscious efforts to satisfy himself of safety, would have told me, what I afterwards learned, of the exact place of concealment. If, now, we can induce people in sleep to tell Us important facts, by motions of the arms or legs, why cannot we accomplish the same by the movements of that other member, which is in most general use, for the purpose of conveying infor- 9             164   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR mation? Why may not the tongue be operated on to yield up secrets in sleep, which it would not tell in waking moments under penalty of being torn outi "To sum up, therefore, my idea is, that as the mind, during some portion, at least, of its supposed sleeping timonents, runs upon that which engrosses the waking attention, and as, during sleep, you can induce the body, by proper appliances, to manifest what is upper- most illn the thoughts, I believe you can lead a person to talk in their sleep, and to tell you anything you want to know, provided it relates to something in which they are greatly interested, and upon which they have been unremittingly concentrating their attention. The plain- tiff in this case, of course, has thought of nothing else for years. She is poor as a church mouse; thonugh, really, I never understood why religious mice should be more dilapidated than others, unless it be that their sole support is derived from the charity of pro- fessing Christians. However, she is poor, and to gain this suit would make her rich, she therefore has de- voted all her energies to success. She is shrewd, as has been abundantly manifested. She knows all the strong points of her case, and has seen to it that they were fillly brought out. Per contra, if there is a weak one, she knows what that is too; that is the thing of which she is afraid; that she will have in mind con- stantly more than anything else; and I think she can be induced to betray herself." As Charlie paused- after his prolonged harangue, as ,1   if to receive the commendation of his auditor, he was no little disconcerted at the coolness with which his brother remarked that he had talked "1 a little sense, and a great deal of nonsense;" and that he would   THE INFERIOR SEX.        165 believe in his metaphysics if their practical appication afforded sufficient justification. "And when do you set about your great scheme?" was Rob's question. "This very night. I am only waiting for the arrival of the police officer who is to guide me, and prevent that little throat-cutting affair to which you referred some time ago." Even as he spoke, a knock at the door announced an arrival, and a man came in whose ap- pearance would hardly have- indicated that he was a rogue-catcher. He was not in the uniform of the pre- servers of the public peace, but was dressed more as a cattle or hog drover. His pants were stuck in his boots, and he wore a great-coat, with a muffler about his throat, as though he was in delicate health, or afraid of bronchitis. This hypothesis, however, soon fell through, for, on closer inspection, he proved to be a short, thick-set, burly fellow, of florid complexion, ,cheeks full and ruddy, and rotund in the matter of girth. He probably would not have deemed it an insult to be called fat, and if he had, he could not have denied the soft impeachment. His boots and garments were bespattered with mud. He wore a soft felt, or slouch hat, and had a heavy-handled whip, with which he thrashed his legs occasionally to relieve them A of dust and dirt. He was not the ideal detective, with the eyes of a weasel and the motions of a ferret. His - appearance was dull, his actions were heavy, and but for an occasional twinkle in his: gray eye, one might have thought that he was hopelessly stupid. "Good evening, Jarvis! This -is my brother Rob." The introduction was acknowledged by an awkward   168  MRS. ARMYGTON'S WARD, OR attempt at courtesy, and the official seated himself by the fire. "Why are you not in your uniform to-night, Jarvis?" was Charles's query. "Well," he observed, in reply, " uniforms is a good thing when you don't want to catch nobody; but if you want to go around among 'em, for business like, it's best not to let 'em know you too quick." Here Rob, who, being a conservative, was generally in favor of observing the rule which says, "in cases of doubt, take the safe side," desired to know if he did not apprehend dangel when going abroad without any insignia of his rank or station. "N6o trouble about that," replied Jarvis. "In case I get in a tight place, I can show this," and he opened his great-coat, and displayed the star usually worn by members of the force. "But," he continued, " if things gets obstreporous, I doesn't often tell who I am; I only busts a head or two, and they know the weight of my metal." He held out his whip, which Rob took in his hand, and at once saw, that although comparatively innocent in appearance when in its owner's hands, it was, in reality, a formidable weapon. It was pliable, and heavily loaded. "You see," he con- tinued, "I gives one of'em a small tap on the crown with this 'ere persuader, and it scatters their wits -like, and it's curus how little they know after I hits one ov 'em on the 'ed. I laid out three on 'em last night, which they was shovin' round, and makin' theirselves onpleasant, garroting ov a gentleman down town, and was going through him. They'd got his watch, and was fumbling for his pocket-book, when I felt 'em. I was about a square off, and I comes up and reaches for *.'    THE INFERIOR SEX.         167 the tallest ov 'em, which was the wickedest un with a knife there is in these parts. He got down in the gutter quick as he could, and I fetched the other two. Their hats was in the way a- little ; but, as hats, they ain't been ov no account sence." The coolness and imperturbability with which Jarvis spoke of knocking out people's brains, as though it was a mere matter of slaughtering hogs, impressed Rob as being a proceeding somewhat brutal in its nature. His face was rather expressive of horror at the policeman"s style of eloquence, and the official hastened to explain that it was contrary to his rules as well as his feel- ings to injure a person, except when absolute necessity required. Further conversation, however, was cut short by Jarvis remarking that it was getting late, and, without further ado, Charlie proceeded to wrap him- self in his overcoat and prepare for his nocturnal expe- dition. Although not alarmed, but feeling a tendency to prudence in consequence of Rob's intimations of danger, he took down a case of pistols, which he dis- played to the officer, with the faintest touch of an in- terrogation in his countenance; but that functionary merely observed, "No barkers," and they were laid away again. A cab was at the door, and after whis- pered instructions to the driver, the two got in and rattled away.  It was what mariners at sea call a "dirty night."  There was no' moon, and  the stars seemed to have no courage to stay out alone so late. The wind howled dismally through the deserted streets, and a  heavy rain was falling. Frequent flashes of lightning made the darkness visible, and sharp peals of thunder startled the ear. The flickering flame of the gaslight at the street corner seemed engaged in a con- ' * ,   168   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR tinued struggle for existence, like a drowning man clinging to a plank which the furious waves momen- tarily threaten to tear from his grasp. Thle violence of the wind would almost extinguish it; and when appar- ently at the last extremity, it would blaze up again with renewed vigor, not in the least daunted by the pressure of circumstances. The discomfited adversary would again return to the attack, and rage and rave, and tear his hair, exasperated beyond endurance at the impertinent little blaze that defied his destructive breath. He reflected that he stranded navies, uprooted oaks, and demolished the habitations of man with the utmost ease, and to be withstood fearlessly by such insignifi- cance, was too much for any well-regulated wind to stand. So he made another dash. This time in the shape of a petulant, spiteful gust, that concentrated all its vim in a quick, sharp spat; but the flame dodged to one side, in a period of time compared- with which the articulate expression of John Robinson would have occupied an age, the gust missed its footing, tripped over the lamp-post, and with a series of somer- saults that would have done honor to an acrobat, went off round the corner in shrieking rage. Then the gaslight flashed tp again, straight in perpendicular pride, beam- ing with satisfaction at the disappointed prowess of its ancient enemy. Brief space for repose. Finding the light infantry foiled in the attempt to carry the works by storm, the heavy dragoons were brought into play, and now came a prolonged, deafening blast. It poured its lengthened columns into the fray, and by sheer weight of numbers crushed resistance down. The spirit of opposition, however, yielded not. The flame was run over, stamped upon, the breath - beaten out of its body,   THE INFERIOR SEX.        1 till life hung by a single hair. But the hair held, and when the rear guard of the charging foe had passed, the hair pulled back the blaze, and there it was in full life once more, cheerful and serene. So the battle raged for hours, till the wind drew off its shattered ranks, and laid down upon the field to sleep on its arms. O   170   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XVII. THE JUG-HOUSE. "THs is the den," said Jarvis. A large, six-story building. They call them bar- racks. All kinds of people live in them. Also pigs, geese, and chickens. In one room lived four families, and one of them kept boarders. Dogs? The number of dogs in that tenement was startling. Invariably of the most worthless descrip- tion. - Ugly, mangy, mean. If they would only have manifested a decent spirit of objection to the rats, they would have entitled themselves to some respect; but such debased dogs were these, so lost to all that soul of emulation that should fire the dog breast, that it was not an unusual thing to see. a dog and rat gnaw- ing at the same bone. The harmony of things between the two species was altogether comfortable. The barracks were dilapidated, and in a generally tumble-down condition,- Built for the poor, they"Were poorly built. Each story had a balcony, or pouch, guarded by a slight railing, through which children were continually tumbling. Indeed, it was almost a constant stream of childhood from the fifth and sixth stories down on to the pavement below. The pavement, however, suffered no inconvenience whatever. It was used to it. Habit is a second nature. These things are customary in large cities. They have various advan- tages. In case of pestilence, they are never-failing   THE INFERIOR SEX.        171 sources of supply from which the demon of Death may recruit the ranks of that innumerable caravan that is continually moving to the pale realms of shade. In the matter of fire, there is no such tinder. The effect is dramatic, in case of a conflagration, when the stair- ways have been consumed, and all avenues of escape cut off, to see women and children, poor, frantic wretches, at the upper windows, screaming for help, while the lurid flames seethe around them. But the house was not on fire when Jarvis and his companion entered. Upon the contrary, its external appearance indicated total darkness within. They went into a long, narrow, dark passage-way. "Take my hand," whispered the officer; "I sorter guess this is a kind of place you ain't much used to. Young gents, they come, here once in a while, but it's only when they gets on a high lark." Accepting the prof- fered guidance, Mr. Charles went on, thorough various turnings and windings, down stairs, until he concluded he must be in the region of the cellar, a lobg way under ground. He now heard the sound of music and boister- ous merriment. Stopping at a door, upon the knob of which he laid his hand, the officer observed, "This is a jug-house." The door opened. The two went into a room, perhaps thirty or forty feet in length, and say half as wide. The ceiling was low and blackened with smoke. The floor was sprinkled with saw-dust, to- gether with a rather profulse ornamentation- of cigar- stumps and rejected quids of tobacco. The illumination was firnished by a number of tallow candles. Some were stuck in bottles, some in holes made in pieces of board, and bottles and barrels were covered with grease, which the swaling wicks scattered about with an im- i..   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR partial liberality. The room was generally bare of furniture, with the exception of a few rough pine benches, ranged against the walls, a few chairs, and two or three tables, at which cards were being played. Upon one side of the room, about the middle, was something like a dry-goods box, elevated on legs. In this were three men; one had a fiddle, one a banjo, and the third a trombone, which occasionally brayed with a dissonance and volume of thunder which was stirring. This, whether the dry-goods box or the peo- ple in it, was referred to, and spoken of, by the occu- pants of the apartment, as "The Orchestra." At one end, in the corner of the room, was a counter, four feet long, behind which stood a woman, blear-eyed, bloated, and bald upon the top of her head. If ever the term had was appropriate, without the slightest apology for its ise, it fitted this character. She excited, and could excite in the human breast, no other feeling but that of pure and undefiled disgust. She was dressed, in what would be esteemed in her class of society, brilliant apparel. It was ball costume, for it was a dance night. Her arms were long, scrawny, and bare up to the arm- pits. Her fingers were decked with rings. Similar ornaments were in her ears. She had paint on her cheeks-a bright brick-dust color. Her nose needed none. Her face was wrinkled. Her dress was of light, airy, white muslin--that is, it may have been once light. airy, and white; now it was neither. It was low in the neck. Would have been shockingly low, if there were any use in contaminating that word by its application to such a subject. She was chewing tobacco with the voracity of a shark. She swore like a pirate. There was a jug of whiskey in seclusion behind the counter.   There was another jug on the counter. Tumblers ap- peared to be at hand, and every few minutes couples, or squads of two or three, would come up to the "bar," and make inquiries with reference to "yeast." The sprite of the bar would produce glasses, and the se- cluded jug and whiskey would appear. In this genial place was assembled a motley congre- gation. There were men of various ages, from fourteen to gray hairs. They were the worst class of thieves, penitentiary birds, and generally those whose existence is the chief argument in favor of capital punishment. There were also women and girls, young girls, some of whom had barely reached their teens. There were members of that "unfortunate race" whose emancipa- tion was the net result of the late "cruel war.' Black and white mingled together upon terms of the most perfect equality. To say that our friend Charles was stunned upon his introduction to this scene of revelry but feebly indi- cates his feelings, and in his astonishment and horror he could not help exclaiming to his companion, "Why! what sort of people are these?" and the reply, at once sententious and profane was, "If you had raked h-- with a fine-tooth comb, yer couldn't have got a worse lot. That cove with the green patch over his eye is one of the top cracksmen of the burgh; he has been in four penitentiaries, and broke out of three. He has been tried for his life twice, and barely got rid of hang- ing. He's in disguise now, 't least he thinks he be. He don't want no patch, he don't. Got two eyes 's good's yourn. Now, see me astonish him." Jarvis walked up to the individual, who was standing as a partner in the dance with a strapping wench of the   Ai, ( i hued Ajr1lj LVl VTL i-jiv o Wizerns 1 1 African persuasion, and with a quick, dexterous move- ment, twitched off a huge mustache that reposed upon his upper lip. The rian -darted at him with a scowl of vindictive rage, and a knife flashed in the air. Jarvis turned and raised his finger. The man resumed his place by the side of the maiden of African lineage. The scene, though brief, was dramatic, so much so -that Mr. Charles was terrified, and expostulated with the officer. "Jarvis, I thought that man would mur- der you! I never saw such a diabolical look on a human countenance in my life before." "They don't murder me, Mr. Charles,- much, if any. Leastways, I never heern on its bein' done, as yet - as yet":-he repeated after a -pause, reflectively, as though he was not willing to state anything of which he was not absolutely certain. "I think," he resumed, contemplatively still, his words coming slowly, as he emphasized them with the beat of the right fore-finger in the palm of the left hand, "I think they would like to do it. Yes, like to do it, only they knows, the most on 'em, it wouldn't at all be a healthy occupation. That is, if it was persisted in, you know, for any length of time." "Jarvis, is not this rather a dangerous place for us to be in?" "Fact is, Mr. Charles, and to tell you the truth about it, I suppose if you was to come here alone, at this time o' night, they'd be havin' of a funeral at your house, say - let's see; well, about next week. They'd be some time, you know, a findin' of the remains, and holdin' the coroner's inquess, and sich. But all this kind of folks is fond of me, very fond of me. I keeps a visitin' on 'em all the time"   J   A s. AVA^A  LAe'A  L- . . & e (, Do you go about among them this way by your- self?" "O, yes, frequent. They're allers glad to see me, cos I'm sociable-like with 'em. I never drinks no whiskey with 'em, though. Yer see that sweet 'un there behind the bar; she loves me, she does. Sent her husband up for life ten years ago, and she swears she'll get even with me. If I was to go over there and take a drink of her liquor, she'd pizen it, easy as look at me. I'm temperance, I am, on principle,-pure principle." , Jarvis, suppose you explain to Lie what sort of a hole this is you have brought me to." , Well, Mr. Charles, they call 'em jug-houses. They don't have no licenses to sell liquor here, so they sell it without any license. Wot they say is this, we're a wiolatin' of the law, but wot's the use of havin' a law, ef yer don't wiolate it. That there jug on the counter, that's got yeast in it, and ef yer go out in the street yer'll see a sign, 'Yeast for sale here.' If yer go up to the counter, and ask that she-devil for a drink of X whiskey, she'll tell yer she don't keep no whiskey, and don't sell nothin' but yeast; Yer can't never prove that whiskey's sold here, or in places like this, which there's lots of'em in the town. It's been tried over and over again. You can't never prove nothin' but that it's yeast wot is bought and sold, and they drink yeast. If they gits high on it, why, it's the yeast wot raises 'em." "But how do they get the liquor here? I thought it was against the law to sell liquor. Why does not somebody catch them at it?" "That's just where it is, Mr. Charles. They never /           \   176   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR go out to buy liquor. The down-town people, the good folks, the pious Christians, yer know, as does the whole. sale business, and has big stores, they send round every day to the jug-houses, and fills up. They generally do it early in the morning or late at night. You see it ain't no harm for the wholesale merchants to sell. The law isn't made--for them, cos they're very respectable people. A man as lives in a stone-front, wears good clothes, and goes to church Sunday, isn't wicked, ef he does trade in whiskey; it's only the small fry. It isn't no harm for a man's wagon to be a-goin' round to the jug-houses, filling up, if he's gone to meetin', and is a listenin' to a preacher. Wot is that they keep a sayin' over so :,ften in praying-time about us sinners?" "The Lord have mercy on us, miserable sinners," suggested Charlie. "O O, yes. That's it. Now, you see, wen they're a sayin' of it, solemn-like, why they ses to theirselves, ' Now, it isn't me as really is a miserable sinner, you know, but that there feller over yonder; why, he's jest the miserablest cuss goin'; and if the Lord don't come down handsum in the p'int of mercy, he's a gone coon., Jarvi        also observe the Sun- -  J suppose, then, Jarvis, they also observe the Sun- day laws, too, and sell no liquor on that day." "Very pertikler they is about that, very pertikler, indeed; allers shut their front doors Sunday, and no- body can't get in, not even for yeast." "That is so, is it?" said Charlie, slightly- querying. "Undoubted! Might knock a week, Sunday, at the t;   front door, and nobody would never come. In this barracks there's fifty or sixty rooms, and yer can come here from every one of 'em without going out into the *^ *      THE INFERIOR SEX.'        1" street. On Sunday they do more swilling than all the rest of the time put together. Thqy come down them- selves, and fill their bottles, and cans, and pitchers, anything, and begin in the morning, and lay all day drunk as beasts." While this conversation was going on, the hilarity had been growing fast and furious. Dances, waltzes, and all that constituted the "the poetry of motion," were indulged in with a disregard of restraint unknown, it is to be hoped, in any places save the lowest resorts of the most vile. Between the dances the company would repair to the bar, and all but the strongest heads in the room were heavily intoxicated. Boys, mere lads they were, reeled about, uttering profane oaths, language that was obscene beyond description. Women, too, fallen so low that neither modesty nor anything ap- proaching decency remained. It is bad enough to see a man drunk; to hear him indulge in such blas- phemy as was here common; but if there is a sight- on this earth supremely calculated to horrify the be- holder, a sight that could make man loathe his own nature, and cause angels to weep, that sight is a drunken woman. Taught, as every one reared outside of barbarism is, to regard the sex to which mother and sister belong as the embodiment of all that is pure, re- fined, gentle, and beautiful, the shock experienced at witnessing a female in the last stages of inebriety is fearful. Mr. Charles, who now for the first time was confronted with such a spectacle, pressed his guide to take him away from sights and sounds that were so appalling. Jarvis replied, "lot yet." A little girl, she seemed, was waltzing with a huge 12   '178  MRS. ARM-INGTON'S WARD, OR brute on two legs, whose staggering steps wandered promiscuously over the floor, in spite of her efforts to guide him in something approaching regularity. She was Ibedizened and bespangled like the rest, but her face was pale, and she looked worn and exhausted. With the rest this couple proceeded to the bar when the music paused, and Charlie observed this mere clild gulp down a draught of liquor that was, he thought, enough to stultify a grown man; and he heard the woman behind the bar speak of the child as her "daughter," and praise her acquirements as a dancer. Tired for a while of the monotony of their amusements, the dancers gathered round the orchestra, and were clamorous for " a tune." The man who presided at the fiddle gratified their request, and played, with con- siderable skill, a variety of -popular pieces, exciting much applause from his carousing audience., At last, gliding from one theme to another, he strayed into the familiar air of "Sweet Home." Accustomed as he was to good music, Charhe was struck, as he listened, with the power and pathos the violinist displayed. He seemed to throw all the energy and feeling he possessed into the piece, and its effect upon the gang of mis- creants before him was certainly remarkable. While the musician was performing his merry jigs, the crowd laughed, and talked, and joked, and swore as usual. Now they had ceased. Not one in the -room spoke. All stood in perfect quiet. None moved, even to change position; and as the touching strain of that dear old melody fell upon the ears of these poor, degraded creatures, the painful stillness proved that they were remembering that once there was a place that was home to them, although they were out- i\ i   THE INFERIOR SEX.        179 casts now. Among the women, Charlie saw more than one whose visible agitation showed that not even a life of prolonged shame-had entirely obliterated those feelings that, frombeneath a mountain of wretchedness and sin, still feebly whispered of childhood, and an- innocence of which the memory even was a lingering sorrow still. Charhe had been attracted in particular by one per- sonl, a tall, angular woman, of the Meg Merrilies type, who had entered but a short time previous. Shei had taken no part in the festivities of the occasion; and, although repeatedly solicited to partake of the flowing bowl, had not manifested much disposition to steep her brains in alcohol as the rest were doing. As she stood listening attentively to the music, Jarvis pointed her out, saying, "That's the one you want. They call her Crazy Jane. They have a room together, and you must in some way work through her. She knows what you're after, and I told her wot you was goin';to do. Don't much think you're goin' to do it; but that's your lookout." - So saying, and signing to the woman to follow, the two left this scene of virtuous enjoyment, of which Charhe had long ago been heartily sick, and going through another dark passage-way, and up other flights of steps, they reached a landing where the policeman stopped. The female figure approached, and after a brief whispered colloquy with the officer, she touched the hand of the young man, and said, "This way." They went along the hall in which they were standing, and entered a room at the end, leaving Jarvis at the head of the stairs. The atmosphere was close and sickly. A dim light from the stove merely served to   MRS. ARIINGTON'S WARD, OR show the outlines of the apartment and the various articles of furniture which it contained. There was a bed in the corner, though it was barely possible to distinguish whether or not it was occupied, but from the fact of an occasional movement and a suppressed murmur in that direction, the visitor soon ascertained that he was at last in proximity to the object of his search. "You understand what Jarvis has told you, and what I want you to do," he said, in a low tone, to the figure at his side. She nodded assent, and, rather to the young gentleman's surprise, proceeded to disrobe herself, and get into the bed. Somewhat of a predica- ment, thought Charlie to himself; but he stood in silence, awaiting what should come next. Crazy Jane was a person who had long been in the employ of the police, and though so eccentric in her habits and man- ners as to have earned the soubriquet by which she had been introduced, she was sharp and quick-witted, and the generally prevalent impression that she had "a bee in her bonnet," gave her advantages in accomplishing missions she undertook which would not have been afforded to one with regard to whom no such defect was supposed to exist. She had been informed enough of the matters in controversy to explain to her what was the object sought, and the means proposed to insure success; and, strange to say, she saw the point sooner, and took to it quicker, than any of those who had not the misfortune to be called crazy. Entire silence prevailed for fifteen or twenty minutes, at the end of which Crazy Jane began to sing, not any articulate words, but a crooning, droning kind of sound, such as, although not very musical, yet was not pos-   itively disagreeable. This was continued for some time, when the sleeper at her side moved somewhat uneasily. Adapting her tones to the apparent con- dition of her slumbering companion, as the increased action of her li mbs indicated returning consciousness, the singer subdued her voice, so as not to wake her up, and as she would again relapse into repose more pro- found the noise was increased. It was not long before, in addition to! motion of the person, an indistinct utterance escaped the lips. At this Charlie drew near the bed. He could feel his heart thumping against his ribs, and he could scarcely control himself suffi- ciently to prevent breathing loud enough to wake the sleeper. He leaned forward, listening intently for some articulate sound. He stood thus several minutes while the crooning went on, and the effort to speak, for it was evidently such, was repeated a number of times, varying in loudness, but without being at all intelligible. As he stood thus, with every nerve quick- ened with intensity of expectation, a town clock in a steeple hard by struck one, with a thunder of noise that almost threw the young man from his feet across the bed over which he was leaning. The sleeper, too, started visibly, and with sudden vigor there issued from her throat a sound like "urn." Recovering his self- possession, and with a readiness that perhaps the exigency furnished him with for the moment, and re- membering that one o'clock was the hour at which the court always adjourned, he touched the singer as an indication to be silent, and taking up the strain, as nearly as he could imitate it, he crooned in the slumber- ing ear the word "adjourns." To his surprise, and satisfaction, as he listened,   182  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR although the sound was indistinct, yet it was clear that she was endeavoring to follow him, and to repeat the word " adjourns." Satisfied now that the right start had been made, he was puzzled to know the next step to be taken, and he continued his vocation of vocal artist to gather his thoughts for action. It, however, was one of those cases when, whatever is done, 'twere well 'twere done quickly. As he stood thus, his trouble was relieved by another sound, in which he thought he detected an attempt to syllable the name of the defendant whose interests he was endeavoring to pro- tect. Repeating the name himself a number of times, in the same style of expression he had before observed, it was apparent he was followed by the recumbent figure, who quite clearly uttered what satisfied him was the attempted expression of his client's name. By this time the ejaculations were no longer spasmodic and repeated with long intervals of time between each, but there was a continual confused murmur of sounds, amid which he thought he could detect that of the letter I more frequently than any other. Following the cue, and repeating the lambial sounds with the in- tonations of the various vowels, as all, ell, ill, &c., he found she responded only to the last. Harping on this for some length of time, and putting his ear close to her face, whether it was due to his highly-wrought sensitiveness or not, he was satisfied he heard the mo- tion of her lips in the endeavor to prefix a consonant, and the word "will" flashed upon him. He repeated it, and in the answer there could be no mistake. Listening again to the incoherent rambling of the sleeper before him, he detected the sounds of a and e following in close connection. Naturally linking this   THE INFERIOR SEX.        183 with the date of the will, and running rapidly in his mind over the sounds of the various numerals up to eighteen, he repeated that word in her ear, and found the answer, not, indeed, so distinct as formerly, but sufficiently to give, him the assurance of moral prob- ability that this was the word in her mind. As he had now been engaged in his metaphysical experi- ments quite a length of time, and the sounds from the subject on which he was operating grew more and more indistinct and inaudible, he thought it was perhaps the part of wisdom to bring his investigations to a close, feeling as he did that though he had accomplished something, yet the result was not altogether satisfac- tory. He therefore withdrew noiselessly from the room, rejoined his companion upon the stairs, and set out for his home  . - ^  .         * #                184  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XVIII. DISCOVERIES. THE young lawyer was compelled to admit to him- self that he felt somewhat disappointed after all the trouble he had taken in the preparation for, and carry- ing out of, his nocturnal expedition. The grand, po- tential fact, that was to upset all other facts, and deter- mine everything to the satisfaction of truth and justice, and beyond the possibility of contradiction, was not yet patent to his comprehension. The fact that old De Beranger had made a will, was nothing new to anybody; the date of it was equally well known. It was therefore not apparent that anything had been brought to light by the sleep-talker that was not be- fore known to all. He was like a hound at fault. He had followed the scent, with expectation undoubted, that it would lead to the object of his search. He had pursued the trail to its'end, and the same fortune prevailed as when the quarry, hard pressed in the chase, takes to water or climbs a tree. The baffled dogs run hither and thither in vain quest. Their Wqses are of no more use than if the fox they have been hunting had gone up in a balloon. He, however, concluded to make a more critical examination of the testament in ques- tion than he had hitherto done. The transcript on the files showed nothing to excite suspicion. It was regu- lar in form, bore the names of the proper attesting   THE INFERIOR SEX.         185 witnesses, and the seal of the court of probate. He went to the officers of that court to obtain an inspec- tion- of the original paper. He was, however, informed, not to his entire satisfaction, that the instrument had been lost, or mislaid, or, what was more probable still,' that it had been destroyed many years before, at the time the court-house was burned up. It was the fact that such a fire did occur, and that the official papers and records had many of them perished in the confla- gration, or had been scattered or lost. It therefore had become a time-honored custom among the clerks in the various departments of justice, upon inquiry for important papers, after a reasonable but unsuccessful search, to declare that they had been burned up in the court-house fire. The court-house fire, therefore, had become the lazy man's opportunity, for oftentimes a little more perseverance than is usually exercised by salaried employees revealed the fact that the great court-house fire was not guilty of the large amount of disaster laid at its door; and documents were often found after the clerk, in his official capacity, had filled out an affidavit-for which printed blanks were kept -stating in all the solemnity of type, that "the papers in question could not be found after diligent search, the samne having been destroyed by fire when the court-house was consumed, on the night of -April 2, 1 8  "   \! 4 Further investigation showed that the certified tran- script of the will used in the course of the litigation was made from the record of wills - a series of large volumes in which copies bf those important papers are kept, which are always open to public inspection, while the originals were preserved in the fire-proof, burglar-   186  MRS. ARMNGTON-'S WARD, OR proof vault of the court-house, and were only produced when specially called for. It occurred to Mr. Charles that he might just as well investigate the question as to whether or not that particular paper was in fact de- stroyed, as was represented; and despite the printed affirmation of the clerkllwhjich was among the papers in the case, and appeared to him rather like a cast-iron certificate of good moral character, he was not entirely satisfied of the correctness of the statement. Old De Beranger's will was, as it appeared, admitted to probate in the year 1833. Mr. Charles went to the record of wills, and made a list of all so probated during that year, in which De Beranger's stood about at the middle. He then went with his list to the vault, and 'after a search that occupied nearly the whole of one day, he found a package labelled as of that year. He plo- ceeded to examine and compare. The wills tallied with his list firom beginning to end, with the solitary excep- tion of the one for which he sought. De Beranger's was not there. The one that stood before it on his list was Bell; it was in its place. The one after it was Ferguson; it too was there, but no De Beranger's. This struck him as strange, and he stood and reflected. Why should that particular document be missing, and all the rest present? If. there had been two or three, or half a dozen, the omission might have been attrib- uted to accident; but the entire lot being safe with a single exception, and that exception being one upon which so much depended, struck him  as evidence of design. Lawyers are proverbially suspicious, and, though he was not apt to juknp at hasty conclusions, 'he could not resist the impression that this particular branch of the case needed further investigation. Still   THE INFERIOR SEX.        187 the mystery puzzled him. Why should any one desire to make way with the paper when there stood on the books of the office an exact copy - literatim, verbatim, et punctuatim? But then the fact stood out stubbornly before him. The will was gone. Of that there was no manner of doubt so long as he continued to believe the evidence of his own senses. The circumstances were such as to show that it had been purposely made way. with; and, with these premises before him, he sat down to reason out these coincidences to their logical con- clusion. It was clear the paper must have been taken by some one interested in its contents. It was a danger- ous thing to steal a will, it being a penitentiary offence. The criminal, therefore, must have been interested, bold, and unscrupulous, besides having no particular fear of the law before his eyes. He believed the plaintiff in the case to be bad enough and bold enough; and hav- ing served a variety of terms in the workhouse on re- peated charges of riotous living, of which bad whiskey was the chief diet, she probably entertained no great repugnance to a habitation in the state institution for malefactors. But, again, why incur such great risk when the duplicate was at hand? The solution of this question seemed to be the turning-point, and be could see no answer to it unless it was, that the duplicate was not an exact representation of the original; and there was no way of determining this in the absence of one of the counterparts. In this dilemma he returned to another examination of the record book. He read the document over again, and scanned every line, every word, every letter. The- clerk who had made the copy did it in a round, clear,   188   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR beautiful hand; he was a master in the art of penman- ship. No comfort here appeared. He obtained a mag- nifying lens, with which he perused and reperused the- page until he knew it by heart; - but he could discover nothing to indicate that the solemnity of recorded verity had been tampered with, and he gave up the   hunt in despair. When Jarvis made his usual visit that evening he found the brothers together; but Charhe was in a state of great depression, while Rob was engaged in a vain endeavor to rally his sinking spirits. Charles had the greatest confidence in the police officer,-not only from the fact of the faithful zeal he had always dis- played in the -interest of his client, but because, al- though rough in his external appearance, he had more than once shown a soundness of judgment and quick- ness of apprehension that had astonished the young lawyer. As the visitor, therefore,-took a seat in re- sponse to request, he at once saw that his friend was prostrated by a serious attack of the dumps. Naturally supposing it was consequent upon recent events, he in- quired what might be the cause. On their return home from their barracks expedition, Charlie had pre- served a moody silence; and the officer, with a delicacy that might not have been expected in one of such seem-  ing general coarseness, forbore to make any inquiries and the ride back was not broken by a word on either side. Charlie, therefore, took this occasion to narrate his experience, and told what the reader who has not skipped already knows. "So, you see, Jarvis, all I got was the two words, 'will' and 'eighteen;' and we both know there was a will, and that its date is 1828."   THE INFERIOR SEX.        189 "Yes," replied he; "not much gained there. Butt what's this you say about the will not being there?" The lawyer again explained how diligently he had searched, and found everything except exactly what he wanted.                                           L "'That looks queer, at least - don't it, Mr. Charles?' Mr. Charles thought it did. "But, then, Jarvis, why should any one steal or hide the document when the record is there to supply its ' place ? " Jarvis leaned his elbows on his knees, and with his chin in his hands gazed intently into the fire, as though he confidently looked for inspiration from that quarter. "You say the record is an exact copy ?" he observed, after a prolonged pause. " It purports to be such," was the reply. " I see a cove once as purported to be a gentleman, but he wasn't no sich." "But in this case it is impossible to doubt the cor- rectness of official records." It's just them things as everybody says it's impossi- ble to doubt that I allus does doubt. Folks takes 'em. on faith just because other folks do, without ever axin' the question whether they ain't swallerin' a first-class humbug, head and tail." The pungency and point of this speech awakened Charlie to renewed interest. "Wily, Jarvis," he said, "do you doubt that I am here, and you are sitting there ?" Jarvis maturely considered the proposition in all its aspects, as though hesitating about committing himself one way or the other, it being a general rule with him,   190  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR that "the least said, soonest mended." He, however, finally answered,-  "We isn't records, and don't import nothing; and if we was, I don't know as anybody would take me for wot you call absolute verity." "What, then, are you driving at?" "You say the will is gone, but the book's the same?" "That is so." "That woman stole the will." "She is none too good. But for what purpose?" "The record ain't the same." Charlie pondered deeply over this suggestion, and, after long reflection, resumed, "But if your idea is correct, how are you to show the difference?" "Examine the book." "But I have done that over and over again, with my own eyes, and magnifying power, and you can see not' the faintest trace of alteration." "It has been tampered with, though; but you haven't set up with rascality long enough yet to know all the turns it takes." "Well, whatever you intend to do, let us know what it is." "In that forgery case last year I was six months a-workin' of it up. The check, you know, had been raised. It looked all right at first; but I practised on it for weeks with glasses till I found how it was done. You've got to get your eyes used to lookin' through a glass before you can see anything at all; but when you're accustomed to it, you'll be astonished to see things stand out that you never noticed at first." "Well, Jarvis, I've great confidence in everything   THE INFERIOR SEX.        101 you say, and I'll meet you at the court-house to-mor- row, and see what we shall see." Prompt to the engagement, nine o'clock found the two in close consultation over the ponderous volume. It had been submitted to such repeated examination during the last few years that, upon handling, it opened spontaneously to the page of De Beranger's will, which was well thumbed and defaced with finger-marks in huge, unseemly spots, as though more than one pair of very dirty hands had been wandering over the last recorded expression of the old man's wishes. It was in the usual form of those days, in which the testator commended his body to the dust, and his soul to Heaven. Over the last word of this sentence was a large blotch of grease or dirt almost obliterating it. Jarvis called the attention of his friend to it, with a remark to the effect that somebody must have thought the abode of bliss was no place for the old Frenchman. Similar ap- pearances were frequent, although they seemed to be over unimportant words, such as, had they been act- ually erased, would not have impaired the general sense. To the most of these Jarvis paid but a passing attention, stopping but a moment to remove the in- crustations with the end of his finger-nail, or with the point of his penknife. He had a lens in his left hand which was of unusual power, but he appeared to think the occasion had not yet arisen which justified the call- ing it into use. The first circumstance which seriously attracted him was when he arrived near the fobot of the page. The date of the instrument appeared, written in the figures 1828. Over these four figures was another of the imprints, as of unclean hands,- which was perhaps more pronounced than any of the others. Upon this   192  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD,- OR he pondered some moments. He then laid his glass over it. Removing the lens, he looked suspiciously about him to see if he was observed. The office was vacant except as to himself and companion. He took his penknife and carefully removed a portion of the de- facing material, whatever it was. It was, howeverl so impressed or ground into the texture of the leaf that he saw that scratching would mar the surface of the paper. He took from his pocket a small vial and bit of sponge, with which he applied the liquid to the spot, touching it so gently as scarcely to dampen the point of contact. A few applications visibly removed what was now clearly something, a large component of which was grease, which the liquid he was using speedily ef- faced, thus clearing away whatever obstructed the writ- ing. When he had attained this object to his satisfac- tion he again applied his glass. This inspection was, brief; and he turned to his friend, with a gleam of tri- umph in his eye, and told him to look. Charlie did look, and said he saw nothing. The detective put away his vial and sponge, shut up his penknife, pocket- ed his lens, closed the book, replaced it on the shelf, and without a word left the office. His companion fol- lowed, even more dazed than he had been during any of the exciting events through which he had been pass- ing in the course of the three preceding weeks. A faint suspicion that maybe the man had lost his wits crossed his mind for an instant, but he immediately dispelled it; and they walked in silence till they reached his home. Seated again by the fire, Charlie's face said all that was necessary on the subject; and the officer proceeded to reply. "I said the book had been changed, last night."   THE INFERIOR SEX.        193 "You did, but I didn't believe you." , Will you believe me now, if I tell you it has?" C; No." "Well," ho resumed, "wot I say is true, howsole- dever. I don't know no law, and don't know what the bearins on it may be; but that date was first writ in the book '1818,' and it has been changed to '1828.'" Mr. Charles jumped from his seat, kicked over his chair, danced about the room, and performed a variety of antics ill suited to the sobriety of gentlemen of the long robe, and which led the officer to suppose that maybe the young man had lost his wits. "Why, what's up now, Mr. Charles? Does this help matters any?" Charlie picked up his chair, lifted it in the air, brought it down on the floor with a bang, plumped himself down into it with a bang, squared himself round before the police officer with a series of bangs, slapped down his two hands on his two knees with one more decided and crowning bang, and in,'a slow and measured tone, not the least in accordance with his previous excite- ment, said, - "Jarvis, if what you say is true, and can be proved, it is the end of the plaintiff's case." It was now the officer's turn to be dumbfounded, and he took that direction. "I don't exactly see how that is, Master Charles, though I suppose you know; but as to what I said, it's true as gospel. The book was first writ a '1,' and somebody else has put a hook at the top, and a littleE stroke at the bottom, and made it a '2.' It was done, too, by a different hand, with a different pen, and with 13 r  *    v   194'  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR different ink. Moreover, it was done a long while after the first writing was put in the book." The young man then proceeded to explain the con- nection between premise and conclusion, which it is not- necessary to advert to now, as the reader who has not already surmised the purport of the explanation will be made fully aware of it, if he follows the story to its end. Whatever it was, it appeared to interest the hearer to a degree most unusual to his stolid indifference. He listened intently, nodded approvingly as the statement proceeded, and at its end clapped his hands with an energy that amounted to positive enthusiasm. "Oho! That's the lay-is it? Guess I'll wring the neck of that enterprise! I'll have it for you, 'squire, in time, or my name isn't Jarvis." "But we don't know where it is. And how shall we find out 9 " "Why, 'squire, don't you see? That hell-cat's got "What! Elizabeth?" "In course she has. Wot you've just told me makes it all plain." "And are you certain you can get it? I should think she would burn it up." "Great rogues never do just what they ought to do to avoid being ketched, and are always doing just what does finally ketch 'em. 'How many men have been hung for murder just because they came around again to where they had done the crime, when, if' they had kept away, nobody would have been any the wiser?" Charlie recognized the truth of this statement, al- though he frankly confessed the water had become too         .   THE INFERIOR SEX.        195 deep for him some time ago; and he only hoped his friend's surmises might be true. "All wot there is of it is this: Whenever you want it, just tell me the time and place, and I'll have it there and then. But meantime you must keep your own counsel, and not let any one know what we've done so far. Good night!" And Charhe was left alone. *     ,  ,-      . -    196   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER, XIX. SHOES. ALTHOUGH Jarvis had asserted, with the energy of conviction, that the " hell-cat," as he termed her, had possession of the De Beranger will, he really had no basis for his opinion but the fact that it was missing from its proper place, and that she was the party inter- ested to steal it. But once having adopted his conclu- ,sion, he had set himself to work to verify its accuracy without delay. The woman, known as Crazy Jane, was advised of what he now wanted, as she had always proved a valuable coadjutor in the detective service. But there was no information in her possession that appeared to throw any light on the subject; for although she had watched the in-comings and out-goings of the woman Elizabeth, or Betsey, as she was more generally termled, she had not at any time seen any paper or document, such as was described to her, and was of the opinion herself that the officer was mistaken in his belief. She was directed to search the place where they roomed, and it was done. The officer himself repeated the experiment, and subjected the apartment to a vigor- ous examination, such as those only who are experts in that line of business know how to conduct. He pro- ceeded as detectives usually do. He looked through the closet; tapped upon every square inch of the wainscot- ing, to see if any part gave forth a hollow sound, as   THE INFERIOR SEX.        197 concealing a secret recess. He turned the bed upside down, ripped open the mattress.; scrutinized the tops of the bed-posts, and then the bottoms, to see if holes had been bored in them, in which a paper might be rolled up, and so concealed. He brought his magnify- ing glass again into requisition, to see if any portion of the wood had been interfered with or disturbed. The chest containing her clothes was ransacked. It was measured upon the outside, then upon the inside, and the contents in cubic inches of the interior computed,-to see if there was or could be room for any secret drawer, which milht elude ocular observation. The chairs, tables, floor, were examined; nothing was overlooked that could afford concealment for anything of the sort. Perhaps Jarvis would have been somewhat nettled had he known that the lady, in whose private and per- sonal affairs he was just then taking such an active interest, was watching all his performances through the transom over the door leading into the adjoining room. In order to discover whether or not she carried the paper on her person, the expedient frequently resorted to was considered by the officer, of having her waylaid, as if by robbers, who, under pretence of seeking valu-  ables, might accomplish the object; but the difficulty of subjecting a female to that kind of minute inspection seemed to be reason enough for abandoning it. Under instructions, Crazy Jane examined every article of her dress, when she disrobed at night, and though-finding a number of palpers of various Sorts and sizes, some of which appeared to be notes relating to the trial, the article desired was not discovered. As the next step in his investigations, Jarvis con- cluded to spend a social evening with the lady himself.   198   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR This was not a particularly difficult thing to do, though he thought it best not to let her know, during the pro- posed interview, who he was, as his interest in her affairs was well known to her; and she was also aware that he was her most discreet as well as most dangerous enemy. She was in the bar-room or dancing-hall of which mention has been made as a popular resort, in the early evening, together with the promiscuous rabble which made it a place of amusement, when she fell in with a sociable sailor. The sociable sailor was rather the worse for wear. - The flowing bowl had, to a great ex- tent, shipwrecked his wits. His conversation was not so refined as boisterous, and could not be relied upon as a choice literary production. The sociable sailor was also susceptible, and was much impressed with the fair Elizabeth. The impression was strengthened upon further acquaintance. He made himself very agree- able, did the sociable sailor; and while she was highly entertained at his drunken attempts to win her esteem, she did not observe that he was very soberly picking her pocket. Not finding there anything he wanted, he replaced jits contents with the same adroitness with which they had been abstracted. He then turned the reticule which hung on her arm inside out, without eliminating any satisfaction. He was well satisfied, from the report of the female detective, that the object of his quest was nowhere sewed up in her dress, or any of the dry goods she wore, and he thought it might be concealed in her bosom; but as science had not yet invented a method for picking that, he let it alone. The sociable sailor then surveyed her with great at- tention, commented, with tipsy gravity, upon the gener- al elegance of her appearance, and admired her great skill   THE INFERIOR SEX.        199 and taste in the matter of dress. He commended, in high and choice phrases, the various items which con- stituted her getting up for the evening; observing, among other things, that she wore a pair of elegant new shoes. The sociable sailor thought he had not seen such a graceful foot, and such a tidy gaiter, in the course of human events before. The lady admitted that Brackle did make as nice an article of the kind as the most fastidious could desire; that she had just got these that evening, and left her old ones to be mended - She broke off at this point, too abruptly not to have attracted the attention of one as drunk even as the sociable sailor was; and without stopping to bid him the affectionate adieu, to which his previous admiration would seem to have entitled him, she suddenly vanished. The sociable sailor was struck with an idea, and he vanished too. It was full three quarters of a mile to the store of Messrs. Brackle & Co., where all kinds of boots and shoes were vended, and repairing done, with neatness and despatch; upon the briefest possible route, lead- ing to that emporium, an individual might have been perceived travelling at the top of his speed. He had the garb of a mariner; and his general appearance indicated great sociability, though it could not be thea same one as the admirer of the fair Elizabeth, inasmuch as that one was in a state of beastly intoxication, while the travelling mariner was running a bee line, with the vigor and certainty that indicated legs in their normal condition. He reached the establishment of Messrs. Brackle & Co. in breathless haste; upon entering, saw a pair of old shoes lying upon the floor, where the owner had   200   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR apparently left them when they had been taken off. He took them up, and commenced conversing fluently with the proprietor of the store, while he fiurtively felt the thickness of the soles. He was so affable and enters taining, and moreover'seemed so frank and open-hearted, that he totally escaped observation; while with his knife he ripped the lining from the bottom of the left shoe and took something out. He was then measured for a pair of boots, and leaving his card, directed them to be sent to his address. He had been gone fully ten minutes when a- woman came in, also in breathless haste, and pounced upon, as it were, the same shoes. Curiously enough, she pro- ceeded to examine, with great eagerness, the left one, which had attracted the-attention of the sailor; and considerably flustered, called for the shopkeeper, and wanted to know if any one had -been handling them. "Well, yes! there was a man in a little while ago, looked something like a sailor - guess he was a sailor; free and easy in his ways--rather sociable like, as you might say. By the way, he lefthis card, though I didn't think to look at it. Harry, where is that card?"A boy brought and gave it to her; and she made the fol- lowing gratifying perusal:-- (JOSEPH JABVIS, HEAD-QUARTERS, POLICE." It is said that the shopkeeper, who was no other than the senior Brackle himself, was considerably per- turbed at the extraordinary conduct of his female customer, having possessed herself of the direction upon the card. He afterwards observed, in speaking of the incident, that he had never known the name of the Creator made use of, in such a " random manner," as he   THE INFERIOR SEX.        201 termedit, since Brackle and Co. had been a firm; and as to being angry, that was hardly the word- she was furious, raving, threatening destruction to everything and everybody; and all about an old pair of shoes. For his part, he couldn't understand it-sure as his name was Brackle.   202   MRS. ARMINGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XX. THE POLICEMAN'S "STORY. MR. JOSEPH JARVIS, Head-quarters, Police, was in the habit of occasionally spending an evening at the Ar- mington mansion. When such an event came to pass, he invariably appeared in his best raiment, and made his most superb efforts to be an elegant gentlemen. This much deference, at least, did he pay to the arbi- trary distinctions in social position. He was always an agreeable companion, as he had a vast amount of curious experiences in his possession; though he did sometimes make war upon that conventional system of conversa- tion which Mr. Lindley Murray has taken infinite pains to inculcate among the youth of the land. He was also a welcome visitor, his acquaintance with Mr. Arming- ton having extended through many years, during the course of which he had been, more than once, advan- tageous in his professional capacity. He had also, as has been before intimated, championed the interest of Charlie's clients, convinced as he was that on that side was truth and justice; although he was not yet able to give a full and perfect reason for the faith that was in him. It was not, therefore, at all unusual to find him spend- ing an evening in Mrs. Armington's parlor. Upon a certain occasion the household was there gathered; Emily was present. It was entirely natural that she   THE INFERIOR SEX.        203 should be. She had taken great interest in everything pertaining to this singular litigation in every stage of its progress. This was quite natural also, for Mrs. Ar- mington was absorbed in the affairs of the old French people, and it has already been made manifest that Emily's affection for Mrs. Armington was pronounced. Moreover, Mr. Barrister Charles -had been at infinite and enduring pains to explain to the young lady all the intricacies and mysterious workings of the law as it applied to the interest of the De Berangers. She listened to a careful resume of the evidence at the close of each day; went over Mr. Charles's notes with him, and helped him to write them out, and to make the necessary abstracts. In fact, she bestowed a great amount of labor upon the case; and Master Charles declared that she comprehended difficult legal problems with a clearness that was amazing. The way they would sit down every evening together to work out the dry details of the situation was a marvel of indus- try. They appropriated the centre-table, which was speedily covered with papers and law books, and at it they went. This singularity in their labors appeared, that they never could work to advantage upon opposite sides of the same table. As sure as they commenced the evening in those respective positions, it was not long before the barrister desired to point out something which required ocular inspection. Then she would go round to his side, as he bid her, generally taking her chair with her; the two would proceed to the examination, which was vastly important to the cause of justice, and therefore vastly interesting. And as the matter invariably re- quired grave consideration and deliberation; they would   204   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, 'OR put their two heads together,- and it was amazing how close together they could get, - the reason being, that under such circumstances it is much easier to communi- cate ideas, they have so little distance to go. It should further be observed, in this connection, that Mr. Charles .entertained a profound esteem for Miss Emily, based upon the following facts:- The barrister felt a great interest in Jack, on account, principally, of his bold, manly independence. The little fellow was working his way along heroically, and gain- ing the applause of all who knew him. Being interested thus in the brother, it was but natural that Mr. Charles should entertain, as it were, a kind of serene, lofty re- gard-way off at a distance, so to speak -for his friend's sister; and this he did. As before said, it was not unusual for the police officer to call at Mrs. Armington's; neither was it unusual for him to find Mr. Charles and Miss Emily deeply engaged with the books and documents relating to the trial; the eyes of both sparkling with animation, probably, as he supposed, from having recently made some important discovery in the cause of truth and justice. Jarvis took the proffered seat, and was made welcome. He sat upon the forward edge of the chair, that being the deferential mode of suggesting that it might per- haps be considered presumptuous to occupy the whole of it. He twirled his hat in his fingers as he talked, - a habit he had acquired. He was now engaged in relating one of his experi- ences. A You see," he observed, "as soon, Mr. Charles and firiends, as I saw the book there, wot you call the Records, was altered, and you says how important it was, I made up my mind she was at the bottom of the   THE, INFERIOR SEX.        205 whole of it. I've knowed of some little figgerin' she has done heretofore, that was real creditable to one of her posishun in society, for though she's ignorant, she's a smart 'un; all the boys knows her; an' I knew she had that will." "But, Jarvis," interposed Emily," how was it possible for her to get it, if it was so securely locked up in the vault as you describe? The clerks certainly would not allow a person of such character access to important papers." "Nothing easier, miss," he replied. "Her lawyers is very respectable gentlemen, and they goes and gets it; p'raps carries it off to their office to look at or copy, and while it's lyin' on the table: she just gathers it in, and that's the last of it. They does these things every day, miss. But as I were sayin', though I knew she had it, of course she didn't tell me where she kept it. She knows, as well as you do, that I've been after her ever since the game begun, and she don't take me to her 'art. "I thought from the first that she carried it about her, 'cos that class of people think that's safest. Some folks would have burnt it up at once, and then we'd have been floored, Mr. Charles; but though she is cun- ning in small things, she didn't get up to that p'int." ( If you believed she had it upon her, Jarvis," inquired Charlie, " why did you take so much pains to search her room, and everything she had." "Because I' wanted her to know I was after some- thing, and she knew what the something was," replied Jarvis. "Did she know you were in her room?" asked Charles. "Why, of course she did, Mr. Chailes and friends.   206  MRS. ARMNGTON'S -WARD, OR I took good care she should find that out. When I was punching and pokin' her chairs, and tables, and bedsteads, do you suppose I expected to punch or poke anythin' out? Not any. I ses to myself, like this: Now she knows I'm on the track of it; consekens she'll be extra cautious, and like as not'll do somethin' that'll give me a cue, which she just exactly did it. You see, Mr. Charles and friends, folks as is pretty cute, and yit isn't quite as cute as wot they think they is, often does things to try to throw other folks off their guard and to mislead 'em. Pervidin' you be sharp enough not to be thrown off, then you ketches of 'em. Now, when we begun this 'ere trial, Mr. Charles, don't yer know she usen to come to court every day with a shawl or cloak on, also a bag on to her arm, likewise a parasol and other traps? Now I goes and searches her room; nex day wen she come to -court, she don't have no shawl on, no bag, no parasol, no nothin'; which it were just a sayin' to me, plain as though she stood up and talked it,' You see I ain't got it about me; there ain't no place I could have it and your sharp eyes not see it; so you go back to my room and bore some more holes in the bed-posts, and measure the, chist agin, and you'll find it.' "An' when she said this ere, she thought I'd take it in; but I ses to myself, ' If you was to come and swear it wasn't on ye, I'd know ye lied, and d'ye suppose I'm goin' to believe ye now?' Which I was satisfied then she had it on her, just from her wantin' to make me think she hadn't. "So I had her clothes searched agin and agin; but this she didn't know; and searched her room some more, this I took care to let her know, Then, as I told \ -   THE INFERIOR SEX.       207 ye, I thought she'd do somethin' for extra precaution. So I goes down to the jug-room that night, and there I finds my lady, but she didn't know me; and I talks to her, and just to pass the time I examined her pockets, and her bag which she had just brought down from her room after court, wen she wasn't expecting to see me; and in the course of talking, I saw she had a new pair of shoes, and I ses to myself, 'Oho! so the old ones wasn't safe wen the hunt was gittin' ,hot?' Just like, ye know, when yer neighbor gits robbed, ye gits scared, and gits a new strong-box, (And then, wen she was a tellin' about gittin' her new shoes, and leavin' her old ones to git mended, all to once she stopped sudden like, turned pale, and started out into the street, most on a run. 'Oho! ses I to my- self- oho, again ; forgot to take it out, did ye? Well, I guess I won't, and I think I kin run faster nor wot you kin.' So I starts; and ye know, Mr. Charles and friends,' I'm a little thicker nor wot I was ten years ago, and it made me puff; but I don't believe I ever did run faster. Well, it was just where I expected to find it as soon as I saw her new shoes; it was under the linin' of one of the old ones." "But, Jarvis," observed Mrs. Armington, "it was very stupid in her to forget it in that fashion." "That's jest the: reason, madam, why we ketches 'em. If they didn't never do no stoopid things they'd beat us every time. It's very stoopid -for a cove to be a puttin' of his neck in a halter; but they're allers a doin' of it, and that's how they get there." He then produced a thin, small package, neatly sewed up in oiled silk. Hardly able to control his anxiety and impatience,   208   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR- Mr. Charles seized the package, and cutting the threads, drew from its receptacle a paper of very venerable ap- pearance, which he proceeded to read, as follows:-- "In the name of God, Amen. "The last will and testament of Jean Francois De Beranger, formerly of Picardy, France. "I, Jean Francois De Beranger, being at present of sound mind and memory, but aware of the uncer- tainties of life, do make this my last will and testa- ment. "Item 1st. I bequeath my body to the dust from whence it came, and my soul to Heavenl "Item 2d. I give, devise and bequeath all my prop- erty, of whatever name and nature, real, personal, and mixed, to my beloved wife, Gabrielle De Beranger, "I hereby constitute and appoint my said wife, Ga- brielle De Beranger, sole executrix of this my last will and testament. "In testimony whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and seal, this 10th-day of June, 1818. "JEAN FRANO0IS DE BERANGER. [SEAL.] "Signed, sealed, and' acknowledged by the testator to be his last will and testament, in presence of us, who have signed our names hereto at his request as witnesses, in the presence of each other and of the testator. JACOB STYES, WILLIAM ALLERTONO"   THE INFERIOR SEX.         209 "( Jarvis," continued Mr. Charles, in the same tone of voice with which he had been reading, "you are cer- tainly a remarkable man." "O0, no, Mr. Charles," the officer continued, " you're muchW more learneder than the likes of me, but you couldn't see through my glass the other day. It's only because we're use to these things. "But, Mr. Charles and friends, as it's getting late, you must excuse me; if I stay, out nights, Mrs. Jarvis thinks I'm in mischief" So saying, he bade them good evening, and with- drew. " ,   210  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR         I CHAPTER XXI. MCE AND MEN. WHEN the last day of the trial arrived, the same concourse- of spectators were assembled that had at- tended during the whole three weeks of the investiga- tion; and the interest manifested was unabated. The counsel for defendant produced the record from the probate court, and submitted it for inspection, to show the alteration claimed to have been made in the date of the will. Such a charge, implicating as it did some one in a very grave offence, created a sensation. The book was submitted to the judges, and then to the jury. Of the twelve intelligent gentlemen who com- posed the panel, some thought they could detect the f change, some were doubtful, and some failed to dis- cover anything whatever; and those who could per- ceive nothing were just as positive as those who could and did, while the doubtful ones looked profoundly solemn, and wisely shook their heads, as though there was a great deal in them, but they wouldn't mention it just at present. Then a lot of experts, as they are termed, were summoned for the defendant, who were afterwards encountered by a sipilar set of experts upon the other side. Experts, in law, are individuals who think they know a great deal about a particular matter, in regard to which necessarily everybody else is tib- surdly ignorant; the fact being, as a general rule, they   THE INFERIOR SEX.        2" know less than the average of mankind, but being, con- sciously or unconsciously, enlisted in favor of a given theory, immediately adopt an opinion in the matter, which they can be no more induced to change than can the Ethiopian his skin. These learned owls, with or without the aid of magnifying-glasses, pointed out with emphasis the obvious result, whatever it was; and each one made a speech on the science of chirog- raphy, in the course of which he drew attention to certain indubitable signs which demonstrated, with the verity of a mathematical proposition, not only that the thing had or had not been done, but the whys and wherefores thereof. The indubitable signs varied with each witness, and the indubitable signs of one generally ran across the indubitable signs of another in such im- portant particulars that, had the panel been a wicked and perverse generation seeking a sign, they certainly could not have found one to their satisfaction. One asserted that it was done with a steel pen, and provedit, till another came along and proved that it was done with a quill; and he was triumphant until -still a third showed conclusively that there was no other possible way for the fraud. to have been commit- ted except by and through the instrumentalities of a gold pen. Then the class who disputed the presence of the corpus delicti at all had just as-many demonstra- tions, based on just as indisputable premises, and lead- ing to just as logical conclusions, all of which were ab- solute verity. What effect this tomfoolery produced, of course no-. body knows, except the panel themselves, and probably they were just as ignorant; but when the original paper was itself produced, great relief was occasioned.   212   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR Jarvis presented himself, and gave a brief account of the manner and circumstances under which it was procurled. If the production of the altered record made a sensation, this small item of evidence had an effect that can hardly be described, -not that its direct bear- ing on the matters'in controversy was generally under- stood; but the simple fact that a document of that importance had been abstracted, and subsequently found upon the person of a party litigant, while its ab- sence had been supplied by a mutilated copy, was of itself enough to awaken both surprise and indignation. Jarvis was subjected to a rigorous cross-examination, to impair his credibility if possible; and the insinuation broadly made was, that his story was a fiction, and per- haps he himself could account for the manner in which the paper had disappeared from its proper place among the archives. The colloquy between counsel and wit- ness proceeded somewhat after this fashion:-- Counsel. "So, Mr. Witness, you are a member of the detective police?" Witness. "Yes, I am, Mr. Lawyer." Coun. "Well, how long have you been engaged in that disreputable business?" Wit. deaningforward, with his hand to his ear, as though he heard imperfectly). "(What kind of business did you say?"  Coun. "Disreputable, disreputable, sir. I consider all detectives disreputable persons." Wit. (with a very innocent expression of counte- nance, much as though he had been but recently caught, and was still extremely verdant). "Disreparable? Is that a law word? I beant much usen to sich big uns. Mebbe you'd be so good as ter explain u   THE INFERIOR   SEX.      213 Coun. "Do you not know what 'disreputable' means?" Witness. "I dunno as I ever see any of it afore now," looking straight in the lawyer's eyes. Whereupon some- body giggled, and the counsel grew red in the face for a moment, but resumed. Coun. "Does not your business as a detective lead you to associate a great deal with rogues and thieves?" Wit. "Yes, and lawyers." At this a number gig- gled, and counsel found himself growing exasperated, but returned to the charge again. Coun. "Has not most of your time, from your youth up, been spent among the very dregs of society?" Wit. i(I dunno as I know that liquor." Coun. "Come, come, sir! no trifling with the court. I want you to answer my questions, or you'll get into trouble." Wit. "O, no, not at all. It's no trouble to me to answer your questions. So jest load up,- and fire away." Coun. "I desire to know, sir, what your surround- ings and associations in life have been. Now, please tell this court and jury."  Wit. " O, it's my biogerfy you want--is it? Well, the same air as ollers: Born of poor but respectable parents, without the advantages of airly edication, in a large family, as kep' continooally growin', so that we all had to scratch for a livin',- and the scratchin' none of the best at that,-and turned out upon a cold world about as soon as we were able to toddle, with nothiin' given us but the direction, ' Root, hog, or die,' each fel- ler hoein' his own row; ,and mine happened to be where the stumps was thickest, which it's ginerally the   214   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR case with folks like us. Wot ain't stumps is rocks, or sumpin' else wot you can't hoe, and-" He reeled this off as fast as he could talk, without any pause between words or sentences, never stopping to take breath, or halting or hesitating an instant. How long le would have gone on there is no knowing; but the absurdity of the performance struck every one in such a ludicrous light that his voice was drowned in a general guffaw. When the tumult had subsided,- for the audience were much entertained by this novel proceeding in a court of justice, --the examination was resumed. Coun. (in anger). "You are delaying the business of the court, sir! You are playing the buffoon, sir!" Wit. dike a lamb). "Scuse me, sir. Didn't know I was interferin' with your okerpashun, sir." This hit produced another laugh, and the gentleman's temper was fast becoming the worse for wear. Coun. "Will you now tell me when you first found that the will was missing from its proper place?" Wit. "I never found it at all till I found it in her shoe." This answer was not satisfactory to the learned gen- tleman to whom it was given, as his attempt had been to lead the witness into an implied admission that he had made the' search, and first discovered the loss; but Jarvis was not to be caught thus. Coun. "Did I not understand you to say in your principal examination that you first discovered the loss of the will when examining the papers in the clerk's office?" He had not so understood, nor anything of the kind, as it had not been said; but this is a favorite way of ,\  .    TFE   INFERIOR SEX.     215 endeavoring to force upon a witness a statement that never entered his head. So Jarvis replied, with great coolness,- 'Wit. "H dunno wot understanding you have, or whether you have any; but if that is yer understandin' it's a uncommon weak un, it is indeed." The astute counsel felt his growing disadvantage, for at every passage of arms the laugh was against him, and no amount of moral force can) withstand such a tide; so he concluded to vary his tactics, and abandon his little game of badinage. Cozn. "From whom did you first learn that the will was missing?" Wit. "As that is the first civil question you have asked, I will give you a civil answer. Young Mr. Armington." Coun. "Then you never made any search for it among the papers?" Wit. "Never. Knew nothing about it - till he told me:" Coun. "You knew it was a paper of great impor- tance?  Wit. "No; I didn't know. nothin' wery pertikler about that." Coun. "How did you first discover the record was altered, as it is now said to- have been altered?" Wit. "I just went and looked at it." Coun. "L What led you to go and look at it?" Wit. "I thought it had been changed." Counr. "And what put that into your head?" Wit. "Young Mr., Armington told me the will was gone, but that the book was just like it--an exact copy; and I knew it wan't no use to take one and I   216   MRS. AR&INGTON'S WARD, OR leave t' other, if both was the same; an' I surmised, therefore, that they was not the same. And when young Mr. Armington told me what she said in her sleep, and that it was will' and ' eighteen,' thinks, ses I, to wunst, she's changed the date. Then I guessed that if the book ever was a true copy, and, when changed, the original had been put out of the way, she was just the one to cut such a caper." Coun. "' She'? ,Whom do you mean by ' she'?" Wit. "That hell-cat there at your side." Coun. "I must' remind you, Mr. Jarvis, that your language is not proper in the presence of the court." Wit. "I didn't apply that obserwation to the court." Counrt. "Let me now inquire about what took place in the dance-room, as you call it. You were there in disguise?" Wit. "Sartain." Coun. "   What was your object in that?" Wit. "I wanted to ketch my lady." Coun. "Do you think that a very honorable course of proceeding?" j Wit. "About that, my way of gettin' the will from her was as honorable, I reckon, as the way she got it from where she did; so you might call it a stand- off?"   ; Coun. "You picked her pocket there, you say?" Wit. "I did; and I'd have picked her teeth, if I thought she carried it there." Coun. "Then, you say, you saw she had new shoes, and suspected she had hid it in one of the old ones; that you ran all the way to Brackle's store, and found it under the" lining, just as you anticipated. Now,   THE INFERIORP SEX.       f17 tMr. Jarvis, do you expect any one to believe such an incredible story?" Wit. c Folks believes just what they likes. There's tle will. That's the principal p'int, nnd anybody can believe it dropped down firom the moon, if they want to, though I hlve my own notions about that." No amount of badgering or perplexing, however, shook the testimony of the officer, and he was given up as a bad job. The testimony at last concluded, the cause was ar- gned i at great length, a recapitulation of which would be as tedious as were the arguments themselves, hour after hour being consumed on all manner of side issues, now berating witnesses, now explaining contradictions, and expanding on those innumerable themes which arise in altnost eveiy cause of importance. Passing over all this, there is only room for the summing up made by the judge,l who was a profound lawyer of great experience, and long accustomed to analyze evi- dence, rejecting what is irrelevant, and dwelling only upon what is important. His statement, made in a few wordl, astonished- every one by showing how sinmple a cause really was over which three weeks had been con- sumed in dispute. It was this:-- "Gentlemen of the Jtry: The question in this case is this: Is the plaintiff the daughter of Gabrielle De Beranger, and so entitled to the property Nwilled to lier by her deceased lusband, Jean Frangois De Belanger? If she is the daughter of the woman to whichl this "prop- erty was so devised, she is entitled to a verdict; other- wise she must fail.  '"There has been an immense amount of testimony   218   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR as to the question of identity, the most of which may be entirely dismissed froml your minds, as the whole controversy narrows down to a single point. It is abundantly proven, and is indeed now admitted, that plaintiff's mother was the wite of William Castor, the plaintiff's father, up to 1825, from whom she was di- vorced during that year. It is also proved and admitted now that plaintiff, and her mother filst came to the De Beranger house in 1828, and it is nowhere pretended -or claimed that either of them were there before that time; and if the mother did become De Beranger's wife, it was in the latter year or thereafter. "Now, you will obselve- and this is the gist of the case --that the will is dated in 1816, and consequently devises the estate to the Gabrielle who was the wife of De Beranger in 1818, and to no other person.  In order, therefore, to enable the plaintiff to recover, she must satisfy your minds that her mother was Gabri- elle, wife of De Beranger, not only in the year 1828, but in the year 1818 also. "You will retire and consult upon your verdict." After thiis statement of the case, there could be but little doubt as to the final result; and that evening Mr. Charles had the satisfaction of announcing to his client that the cause had terminated in his favol; and great were the rejoicings. The ancient Frenchman, with that extravagance which is a national character- istic, overwhelmed ]is young fi'iend, to whom he at- tributed everything, with his violent expressions of grlatit;ude. Mr. and Mrs. Armington rejoiced, and so did Emily and Jack, and their small sister; and even the incorrigible-Rob remarked that it was "rather a   THE INFERIOR SEX.        219 lark" Iiss Emily, in particular, felicitated Master Charles upon his success, not so muclh in public demon- station as privately, to assure him that she had always believed he would be triumphant in the end, and that he only deserved what he had attained as a reward for his faithfiulness and zeal. This was during one of their walks, which of late they had often been in the habit of taking in the even- ing, to the De Beranger' residence--an incident the frequent repetition of which had led Rob to make the wicked observation, that when Charlie and Em were not actually at the De Beranger residence, they were generally going there. These young people did not differ from others; both were interesting, and they found a certain satisfaction in evening strolls. Upon this occasion the moon was shining brightly, as it invariably does, being a planet that is discreet and attends strictly to business. The sky was clear and beautiful, and under the influence of the witching hour, it was just as natural for a young man of any cultivated appreciation of things to make love, whether he meant anything by it or not, as it is for a young woman to instigate it, knowing she means notling by it. It is but justice, however, to observe that these young persons had nothing of this kind in their heads, -whether anywhere else does not now appear. It had not occurred to either that anly sentiment existed, except that of the purest and most platonic friendship. In fact, they had come to an understanding on the sub-- ject; they were, and were to be, " brother and sister." O, it is so sweet to be brother and sister! The entire sincerity is so simple and charming! It is so obvious   220  MRS. ARMNG TOAr'S IWARD, OR that no other feeling whatever supervenes! Thle se- verest test so clearly demonstrates, that however inl- tense the affection may be, it is wholly firee firoml any tinge of that sentimental regard that someltinmes exists between those whlo are not brother and sisterl, : lnd who would not be for the iworld. The verity of tliis platonism was made mnnifest. Impudent. Rob one morning at breakfast, before the rest had assembled, observed to his mother in. lln un- dertone, but just loud enough to be certain his brother could not fail to hear; "Mother,  why do you allow that young Ralston to be sparking our Em?" The mother had not time to answer, for Maluster Charles, dropping his knife and  folk, with horror depicted in every lineament of his countenance, ex- clained, "Ralston! That insolent puppy make lo1ve to Em!" The fact was, that Ralston was one of Charles's most intimate and dear friends, and iMrs. Armillgton was rather astounded at this outhurst; and mischievous Rob endeavored to smooth it over so as to make mat- ters worse by giving expression to the fib that he had not intended Charles should hear. This was only furllther aggravation, and Mr. Chales wanted to know what was the purpose of concealing from him such an infamous matter. So Rob coolly said, with such perfect sangfroi(d as to be exasperating, "And what business is it of yours?" Although Charlie could not for the life of him tell, yet he was aghast. And Rob went on: "I do not know that Emily is your property, and see no reason for your flying into a   THE INFERIOR SEX.        221 passion over a simple remark not intended for your ears." All this was nuts to Rob, whlo knew that Ralston had no more idea of addressing Emily than he had of being sweet on the Queen of Sheba; but his brotherlwas furi- oils, and refused to be appeased. Thenmore indignant 1le grew, the more Rob stirred him up, sticking pins, as it were, into his tenderest sensibilities, intimating that he thought it would be a good thing for both parties; that the young man in question was desirable in every point of view, and Emily might deem herselffortunlate in mak- ing such a catch. "And you know, Charlie," contin- ued the. scapegrace, "-that you've often told Em you would always treat her like a sister, and I should think you would rejoice at her good fortune." "Good fortune! Rob, you're an idiot! Why, who wotuld ever want anybody's sister to take up with such a man as Ralston?" "MWell, Charlie, I'm sorry you don't approve of it, now the matter has gone so far; so we'll let the sub- ject drop." At this Parthian arrow Charhe was absolutely speech- less, and endeavored "to resume his breakfast, which he did after a singular fashion. He spread his butter on his breakfast bacon, broke his egg in his cup of coffee, upset the vinegar cruet, and' did a variety of things be- tokening a temporary aberration of mind. Rob nudged his mother, who, though not an accessory before the fact, yet saw enough to be rather umused at her son's perplexity; still she was not aware of the exact point which her younger son enjoyed so much. She loved Emily dearly, but was not suspicious that any one else did; and if the proposition that loomed up in the dis.;   222   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR tance had been put squarely before her, there is no telling what the results might lhave been. We may be "prepared to call folks daughters when we might not be to call them daughters-in-law. It is a sort of reverse aspect of the brother and sister question,--all very well so long; as it is not so. .                  . i *    THE INFERIOR SEX.        223' CHAPTER XXII. EMLY'S FIRST I EXPERIENCE. A YEAR or more had elapsed. Emily had left her home, and sought the institution, the advantages of which she could obtain without objection on account of her sex. Shle had passed the necessary time within its walls, and had at last succeeded in the darling ob- ject of her-heart. She had achieved her professional education. She was a graduate with a diploma. Her instructors said of her; that there were none who had displayed greater aptitude or quickness to learn,--such clearness in comprehending ideas, and J such accuracy in stating them. In the department of surgery, she possessed that delicacy of touch, that dex- terity of manipulation, which is an essential requisite to success, together with a coolness and firmness of nerve that in an emergency distinguishes the strong front the weak. With good wishes from her preceptors, and predic- tions that the future must smile on her well-directed efforts, she turned her face homeward. A journey of a thousand miles in America to-day is not the immense undertaking it was in the infancy of the republic. There was a time within the memory of man-- and for that purpose he need not be a very aged man either--when, in the old lumbering stage- coach, it was a week's work to go any distance of con-   224   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR sequence; but with the present appliances of steam and iron, the continent may be spanned in the time re- quired twenty years ago to cross a state. In the lhat- ter of speed, no doubt, great improvements have been made, but whether other things have keelpt pace witah the march of progress, which is ever on the double- quick, is open to conjecture. Whenever a railroad smash occurs nowadays, -and railroad smashes do occur, -it is a favorite amusemen t of corporate existence first to demonstrate that no blame can by any possibility attach to anybody. It is also a favorite amusement to gull the populace by m:laking entirely apparent frion statistics that fewer people are injured by the present rapid method of transit than un- der the former system, which is conventionally telrmed "pokey;" and it being the mission of the populace to be gulled, they imbibe the dose, and congratulate them- selves upon the great advance the age has made. It is not perceived what satisfaction it is to have it proved by figures, that some time back, in the twilight of his- tory, ten legs were broken where one is now, provided that one is your own. Still the American people be- lieve in it, and gird up their loins, and take their staff and scrip, and are blown up, and run off, and drowned, and burned up, and otherwise exterminated, with a de. gree of complacency in the sufferers which is only equalled by the equanimity of' those who are instru- mental in achieving the disaster. It is, however, our national characteristic to go ahead, It does not matter where we go to, so we go; nor is it particularly mate- rial as to coming out alive at the end. ,These are sec- ondary considerations. The great end and aim of life is to get fromn one place to another, qutickly, "Tho   THE INFERIOR SEX.        225 more haste the less speed," is a statement not now con- curred in; it is superannuated. That system of public conveyance that adopted it would be bankrupt in twenty-four hours, besides being viewed in the light of a standing insult to the community :at large. Some philosopher, whose name' has not transpired, has said, and doubtless believes it, that if inventive genius vas to discover a cannon that would shoot peo- ple from New York to San Francisco in twenty-four hours' time, the usual passage requiring twenty-three days, and if, by the new and improved plan, only one in a hundred got through alive, the universal Yankee na- tion would travel by the fast:line; and the cannon in question would scarcely be allowed opportunity to cool. As the inevitable catastrophe cannot be averted, its consequences can only be alleviated; and, it must be confessed, every endeavor is made to that end. If one goes to buy a railroad ticket in our country, he is straigltway confronted with what is called an- "accident insurance," by which, in consideration of twenty-five cents, lawful money of the realm, in case you are, assassinated witlhin the next twenty-four hours, a competence is thereby assured to your widow and next of kin;- which is very much like going to a physi- cian to employ him in connection with your general health, and having him, first and foremost, present you with an undertaker's card, and then proceed to inquire into your symptoms. But railroads are the thing. They are manifest des- tiny. People ride in them, and are , put to death. Their friends bury them, pocket the damages, and then ride with the same result; and so on to the end. 15   226   MSS. ARMlNGTON2'S WARD, OR Emuly probably had not considered the matter in all the bearings above presented; and even if she had, doubtless,she would have done just as all the rest of us do, and as she did. Her object was to get home, and by the speediest route. Upon examqination she learned that each line was a little quicker than any other, and a great deal safer. She was not much accustomed to travelling and the novelty amused and interested her. She was at that charming age of life which enjoys everything to the fullest extent, of a susceptible nature, one which is the extreme antipodes of blase. It is a period that comes but once in existence, and it is when youth takes all it sees to be real and true, without suspicion that there is any sham or humbug extant. It seizes on -all the innocent pleasures of the material world, and revels in them as though the present hour were eter- nal bliss. To the young girl in this height of happi- ness, the flowers that bloom are not like any after flowers; their hues are more brilliant, their frag!rance more delicious, than any other garden has ever known. The rose that is twined in her hair is not the rose that has grown in the' bowers of earth; it is the birth of those radiant dreams that tinge with beauty all that comes within their influence, and if the wing- ed god, by his officious intermeddling, has added an- other charm and a brighter lustre, it is not known that the winged god has therefore been brought into disrepute. And so, too, there never were any fienclds like the friends of youth. The vows of eternal love which sweet sixteen utters are more terrific than anv of which after life is capable; and the despair which separation opasions in school-girls is more blasting and,   THE INFERIOR SEX.        22T completely destructive in its effects than any catastro- phe which the future can afford. It is, perhaps, well that a wise Beneficence has or- dered thns thus, for it would be sad indeed if the sor- row which is inevitable in all human life did not some- whhere have its compensating balances. And when we pass from sunshine into twilight, and the gloom deep- ens around us, there is a triumphant consolation in the fact, as we look back upon a serene and beautiful past, that however adversity, with its whirlwind of de- struction, may overtake our happiness and hope, we may taunt the destroyer with the defiance that he can- not cheat us out of the good times we have had. With the largest capacity for enjoyment, and a soul full of enthusiasm, there was nothing that Emily en- countered that did not furnish food for amusement or instruction; and as her nature was observant, she picked up thoughts and ideas from all she saw around her. As she sat quietly in her seat, she took note of her fellow-travellers, and studied character at forty miles an hour. With all her national pride and love of country, she could not but think that the peripatetic American is a curiosity. To a certain extent he is selfish, but chiefly in little things. The man who would insist on having a whole seat in a railroad car, and who would fight for what lie deems a vested right,-vested rights being generally an assertion without justification, -would probably tender you his purse, if you ex- cited his sympathies in behalf of distress. There is something singular in this feature of travel- ling. Of what use it is to a man to appropriate more than he can use or occupy, is a problem past find-   228   AIRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR ing out; and yet it is one upon which, like the Puritan fathers in defence of their religion, the generality of mankind are ready to stake their existence. Under the manners and customs of our country, one enters the public conveyance, takes one seat, turns over the back of another, and puts his feet upon it. This is the American Protective System. Not that he wants the locality where his boots repose; but there is a certain desire that no one else shall intrude upon the premises, and he guards the spot as a lioness does her cubs. Im- mersed in the absorbing interest of his morning paper, he sees nothing of that unfortunate portion of the hu- man race who are more than working their passage by standing up. If any one casts a longing look upon the place sacred to his heels, even this is personal. To such a one coming-a gentleman well dressed, and of ample wealth in Byronic collar--Emily request- ed the favor of being allowed a seat beside him. 'The response was gruff, although her desire was complied with. The gentleman was just a wee bit astonished, when she asked him on what principle he esteemed it just to take more than his share of public accommoda- tions when there were so many others that were desti- tute of any. The individual opened his eyes in sur- prise, and surveyed his fair querist with a mingled ex- pression of amazement and good humor. He observed to the effect that he really had not maturely considered the subject, but that the general idea-was, "first come, first served." "Which may be very true as regards what is your own; but how much farther does it go?a" "O," he replied, "why may I not make myself com- fortable when others can find plenty of room else- where in the car or train?"'   THE INFERIOR SEX.        229 "But have you the right to put them even to that trouble?" "Not strictly as a matter of right," he assented; , but why should not that much be allowed by way of courtesy?" "And why should not you tender, by way of cour- tesy, your surplus advantages to those who stand in need of them?" He reflected a moment, and then said, "Perhaps you are right about that; but I don't think it ever struck me just that way before." Whereupon he relinquished his vested rights, and smilingly gave up the extra places he had secured. From this little incident an acquaintance began Iwhich afterwards proved useful. In the course of her journey, Emily had her first ex- perience also of steamboat travel. To go in vast crowds that are continually pulling, hauling, and treading on one another's toes; abandon- ing all the comforts of home, with its sweet associations of family; rushing from one train to another, and fight-, ing as though life depended on it for your place; being whirled over the face of the country -at frightful rates of speed, with dirt and dust the only accommodations that are supplied without stint; taking your meals at side stations and a hand gallop; being located in hotels so vast that the top story may be burned off, consum- ingo all its occupants, without the fact being known at the office; in short, the surrounding yourself thus, with every circurnstance of discomfort and unhappiness, is travelling for pleasure. At least, such was Emily's notion as she passed from train to steamer. Her first thought, as a simultaneous rush was made by her fellow-passengers, was, that there   c.,.u  mlo. AMXNGTON'S WARD, OR must be a fire in the neighborhood. Paterfamilias, with wife and seven small children, impetuously shoved for- ward. Women with bandboxes were borne onward by the resistless -tide of struggling humanity. The passage to the boat was narrow, and though ample time was afforded for every one to embark at his supremest leis- ure, yet all strove for priority, and, in their insatiable. eagerness to be first, blocked up the gangway; and all struggled, and pulshed, and squealed, and shouted. The men were punched, the women hustled, the children terrified. A few stray dogs, that were also travelling for pleasure, yelped and bit people's heels; and alto- gether it was a first-class row. These fellowcitizens really had no animosities towards one another; they were of the same blood and lineage, and there was no reason why peace and amity should not prevail. But fnow they glared upon one another. Their faces were expressive only of ferocity; their actions were of that energetic violence that indicated entire recklessness of human life;.and Emily gazed upon the singular scene, wondering whether any would be actually assassinated. None were, however; and when all had attained the goal of their ambition, and wetre comfortably seated be- tween decks, all vestige of the- late desperate encoun- ter seemed to disappear. Men who a moment ago were engaged in a struggle for life clasped hands in all the warmth of friendship, and laughed over the incidents of the late terrible event. . Women who had come out of the fiay in a collapsed condition, and withl thili bandboxes very much as though a large man had inad- vertently sat down upon them, wele as good-humorel as women could be under such circumstances.  The children and dogs also recovered their equanimity, and *   Y and     THE INFERIOR   SEX.      231 all was gay again. The experience, however, was re- peated when the dinner-bell rang, there being about three hundred people on a vessel capable of comfortably carrying, say, half that number. They all rushed again, and squeezed and crowded.  Each man's hand was against his neighbor, and the perseverance was relent: less. Being alone, and relying upon her own resources, Emily at once perceived her inadequacy to mingle with these contending hosts; and she very philosoph- ically abandoned herself to whatever good or ill fortune might betide. A In the event she found that she fared about as well as anybody else, and she therefore the more enjoyed the boisterous combativeness of those around her. Night again, -more rail-roading, and that latest in- vention of human discomfort, the modern sleeping car, described in flaming advertisements as the ':ele- gant parlor coach." She had a top berth, and how to get into it was a serious question. This accom- plished, she found that a space six feet long, two broad, and two high, was her place of repose, in which she was called upon to disrobe and perform the mysteries of the toilet in a- recumbent position. Adapting her- self to circumstances, she settled herself to sleep, and the motion of the train soon sent her off to dreamland. She had been unconscious, she did not know how long, when, crash! -bang! she was startled by a terrific shock, a shattering of glass that flew in her face and hair like a vitreous thunder shower. She heard the screams of those about her, and then for a moment all was still.. The motion of the train had ceased, and she felt that her heels were higher than her head, as though the for- ward end of the car was over a steep bank. She tried   232   MRS. ARMNGTON'S YVARD, OR to rise, but found herself pinned down and held fast She could feel that her ears were full, and her face cov- ered with fine splinters of glass. She tried to brush them away with her lhands, but even they were caught; and she was hleld- just as she lay, flat on her back, her berth so inclined she was almost standing on her head, and incapable of moving at all. Everything was dark, and now began the groans of those who had been hurt. Women screanted and cried for help. Some shouted to put out the fire in the stove; and from all she could judge, she concluded that there were others impris oned in the car like herself. She called out, but no one seemed to heed her. She could hear people on the outside hurrying to and fio, sonle swearing, some giving orders, some directing this to be done and that to be done, and everything in confusion. She heard some one exclaim that the sleeping car was on fire, and where was there any water?   Was there any in the engine tank? Yes, there was water in the engine tank. "aRun like (blank), and bring a buckletful!" Man runs like (blank), and is back again in even less time than thlat. "Not a bucket on the train, sir." "You (blank) fool! Car burning up, and you come to tell me there's no bucket? Where's your hat?" (Blank) fool runs like (blank) with his hat. Meanwhile she. smells the smoke of burning wood,- ftilt at first, but now perceptibly increasing. The hor- ror of being burned alive bursts upon her. She stlrug- gles to free hleself; but she is in the inexorable glasp of wood and iron death. She screams to those outside, but the sound is lost in the pent-up walls of her prison-   THE INFERIOR SEX.        233 house. She lies upon her back, her head down, her hands and feet fast, beams and bolts across her breast : and person, and only able to turn her head. The thought comes to her, Is this the end of life? Of life so beautiful and so full of hope? Man with the hat again, who has run like (blank), and is a (blank) fool, which last proves to be a scandal:-- "Here, sir! Here it is! Where's the fire?" "Stove's upset, and the floor's caught right under No. 9." "No. 9!" Yes, Emily remembered that her section was No. 9. Smoke increases and begins to blaze. "Can't get at it, sir. Doors and windows jammed so we can't move 'em," exclaimed several, who were trying to open the car. Alan with the hat again, who has run like (blank), and is a (blank) fool: "Cut a hole in the bottom of the car, and put me in." Axes now, and sturdy, willing hands. Some coun- trymen who live by the roadside, expert at felling trees and mauling rails. Chop, bang! With a crash off comes a plank. Man with the hat: "HPist awayy!" They " h'ist." In he goes. Smoke thick and stifling. Hat comes in play, and Emily hears the water as it hisses on the'live coals; but it is apparent the case is too desperate for mere hat. She is almost choked now, and feels that she must suffocate soon unless she gets to the air. Meanwhile, as all this passes in much less time than it can be told, night had been made hideous with the shrieks and cries of those who had been injured. Yet   234   MRS. -ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR through it all Emily did not lose her self-possession, but endeavored to keep her faculties under control until the supreme moment should arrive. She heard them tearing the car to- pieces, and liber- ating one after another-those who were hurt, and those who had escaped injury; and she now began to hope that they might release her before the flames should render escape impossible. As they shoved the man through the bottom of the car beneath her, she called to him. The noise about her was so great he did not hear at first; but as soon as he discovered where she was, he took in her peril at once. Down through the hole .again; left his hat this time. "Gal! Top berth, nine!" He scrambled to the top of the car; others scram- bled after him. Emily heard the blows of the axe di- rectly over her face. They tore up the thin sheeting above her head so that the pure breath of heaven came 'to her again; and the danger of stifling was passed. But the cross-pieces were of stout oak, and the flames were gaining headway.  They did not dare to use the axe for fear of cutting the girl to pieces. "Bring a saw!" Man with a hat had a saw; brought it when he first went to the engine, because he knew it would be want- ed, and because he was a (blank) fool. How he sawed, that man! He was a coarse brake- man and a (blank) fool, as has been stated; but for all that he had sense enough to know that the girl needed encouragement, and he spoke cheering words to hler; as he said, "Now, lively, boys!"There were several on the top of the car, with lanterns, &c., assisting, but on the saw depended the issues of life or death.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        235 The brakeman plied it with a will. "Little warm now, miss, but have you out 'n no time." Away goes the beam that is over her face and holds her head down. "There, miss, lie still a minute more; shan't scorch a rag on ye, nor friz your hair." The next is cleared away, and she is able to sit up. The smoke and flame is coming .up through the berth, and there is no time to lose. The brakeman encircles her with his huge, brawny arms, and, with a prodigious effort, draws her out. They were helping her down from the car, when she suddenly broke loose, ran back, and climbed into the hole that had nearly beenl her tomb, and drew forth firom beneath the pillow where she had slept her watch, purse, and something else -that looked as though she had left her scalp behind her. The watch was quite warm. As she got down safe on to dry land, which was not on fire, the blaze burst forth in all directions. A large man, bareheaded, stood near her, and as they saw the magnificent palace coach sink into dust and ashes under the sway of the fire fiend, the man observed, "There goes my hat!"  ,    230   A'Sa. AKIMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XXIII. MORE EXPERIENCE. THE accident had occurred in a wild part of the coun- try remote firom settlements. In the darkness Enlily's train had been run into by another following, with such force that the locomotive had gone nearly through the rear car, and almost*annihilated the one in which Emily was sleeping, pitching it over the embankment, where it hunl suspended at an angle of about forty-five de- grees. The scene was fearful. The flanmes of the burning car lit up the desolate forests. By the Illrid glare men were at work extricating those entangled in the wreck. The locomotive which caused the disaster had been thrown off, and had rolled clear over down the bank, and lay like a huge, helpless giant whose life was fast ebbing away.  There were a few log cabins in the im- mediate vicinity, and from these the inmates had come to render what assistance they could; and they were those who had done such good service with the axe. They had chopped holes in the sides of the car, and extricated the passengers as fast as they could get at them.   Some were taken out quite dead; others had legs and arms broken.  Skulls were fractured. Gashes and wounds of the most shocking description appalled those who were endeavoring to help, and made stlong men weak and faint like children. The locomotive in   JL .ff ,i' VjIf UXl hl*!,  its overturn had caught the engineer, and fell upon him as it went down, crushing-his lower limbs to a shapeless pulp, but leaving him fiee above the hips. The steam and hot water from the boiler were pouring upon him in a steady volume, and his shrieks were agonizing. He begged them to shoot him, to brain him with an axe, -anything to end his exquisite tor- ture. . They tried to release him, but nothing short of a power to lift twenty tons could have been of any avail. The red-hot iron of the fire-box lay right across his legs, and that sickening odor of burning flesh showed that he was not only being boiled, but abso- lutely roasted alive. But it could not last long, and a comrade pronounced his eulogy: "I've run with Jake on this road nigh on to fourteen year, and never bet- ter man pulled a throttle." So saying, he drew the cuff of a very dirty coat across a very dirty face. Thlose who were unhurt, with others who had col- lected, worked away, and the only place at hand to which they could remove the wounded was a large- barn not far off. Here they were brought and laid upon the hay, one by one, and inquiry was at once made if there was a physician or surgeon on the train. Emily could feel her heart thump as she heard that question. There was no physician or surgeon on the train. The terrible position in which she had been  placed before her release had unnerved her, and for some time after, she felt herself almost incapable of moving or doing anything. But upon hearing this call for help, she summoned all her resolution, bade her throbbing heart be still, and breathing a silent prayer for aid to Him who is an ever-present help, bravely told the man who seemed to be chiefest in authority ' ,   238'  MRS. ARMINGTON'S WARD, OR that she could do all that was necessary. At first he seemed to doubt. lHe looked in her eye. The ques- tion was settled. She bade him bring her trunk from the baggage car to the barn. It was done. They pulled out an old carpenter's bench upon the floor. She began to ex- amine the wounded. They were in all stages and conr- ditions of suffering. She came to a broken arm. She paused and looked around'. Her eye fell upon the gen- tleman who had taken the four seats. He was un- hurt. She beckoned him. "You are the only face I recognize now. Will you help me? We have a fearful ordeal to encounter, but we may save some lives and much suffering." "Miss," he said, "I will see you through this, if God lets me live long enough, and gives me strength to do it." On that they shook hands. They laid the first suf- ferer on the carpenter's bench. She opened her trunk, and took out her case of surgical instruments. The fracture in this case was not a severe one, and she ripped off the sleeve of the coat, and proceeded with her examination. But it was difficult work, as there were no splints,- and nothing, -when the arm was set, to keep the bones in place. There were bales of hay upon the floor. She told her friend to chop off one of the oaken strips. He did so, and she directed him how to whittle with his penknife. He had been in New England, and the shavings flew. She watched his operations, directing them from time to time, until he had rudely fashioned some thin pieces of the wood about two inches in width, which twere fitted to the arm. But there were no bandages. She explained her difficulty to her now ever-ready and willing friend.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        239 "Yes, I see," he said; " want strips of linen. There's a friend of mine--"And not waiting to finish the sentence, he retired. He returned again in about three minutes and a half, with his hands full of what was wanted torn up into pieces of the proper length and width. His coat was buttoned up to the throat, and his Byronic collar was no longer visible. Emily went on busily with her work, and as she was bending over her patient, she looked up, with the slightest possible twinkle in one eye, saying,-- "You forgot to take out your sleeve-buttons," placing the articles in his hand. The gentleman was rosy. The operation was then proceeded with, and accom- plished with expedition. Emily was so careful and gentle in all her move- ments that the man upon whom she was operating- a rollicking Irishman, who kept talking gayly all the time he was under treatment-was so much enamoured with her skill and kindness, that, when he was through, he looked up at her with a comical expression of coun- tenance, and ejaculated,- "Bless yer swate soul! Ye couldn't tell me how to break me other arrum - could ye?" This, however, had not been a very formidable un- dertaking; but as the girl looked about her, and saw the floor of the barn covered with people suffering, as it appeared to her, with almost every conceivable variety of wounds, her heart almost failed her again, and it seemed to her like the descriptions she had read of battle-fields. Faces were gashed and stream- ing with blood; some had horrible contusions. There    .                 .   240   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR were those so fearfully mangled as to be past all hope. They were delirious with agony. There was shrieking and shouting, and praying and cursing, from lips that knew not what they uttered. Those unhurt were endeavoring with their best efforts to alleviate the distresses and anguish of their fellows. They bound up such wounds as they could, and essayed to stanch the current of life when it was fast ebbing away. Sympathy was not wanting. They were really and willing, but, as in all panics, they scarcely knew what to do. It was felt, that unless some one possessed of the necessary knowledge and skill could be had, despite all that the kindness of the unlearned could do, that rude barn would hold high carnival of death. But when they saw this girl- young, innocent, sim. ple, as she was- handle that arm with the coolness and promptness which she had shown, for she was but a few minutes at the whole work, every one turned to her with a long-drawn breath of relief. That singular in- stinct that in all emergencies recognizes at once the man for the hour, when he does come, manifested to the panic-stricken crowd that the deliverer and pre- server was there. It was wonderful, too, to witness the effect the dis- covery produced.  There was an intuition among the poor suffering creatures. No one told them;  they knew it. There in the woods, far off fi'om the habita. tions of men, with no prospect of aid from without,- at least, for many hours, -some who were worst hurt had abandoned themselves to despair; and all felt their energy and vitality rapidly giving way at a moment when energy and vitality were most needed.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        241 But like the despairing mariner, - "Alone, alone, all, all alone, Alone on the wide, wide sea,"-- who sees a sail/and life reviv-es. with hope, they were now inspired with renewed courage. She went around to each one by turns to examine their condition. Her quick woman's wit perceived that all the injured, as well as the rest, had fastened upon her as the one who was chiefest there. Big, strong men, women of twice her age, followed her, ready to do her slightest bidding, and evidently sub- mitting to her guidance. She felt how great the re- sponsibility was. It was that of human life, and she had to struggle within herself, lest she should give way and sink' beneath the fearful load imposed upon her. But though her inward agitation was great, it was betrayed not at' all by outward look. She moved about with that calm, unruffled confidence that seemed to know exactly what was best to be done. How comforting it is, when you do not know what' to do yourself, to find somebody that does. It will be remembered that she had comes out of the sleeping car not as out of a bandbox, but in a state of comparative dishabille. Upon lying down to rest, she had taken off-her outer dress, and removed that cir- cumstance of female apparel called-  Well, they go, around flour-barrels. But with an idea 'or presenti- ment that she might be called upon to arouse hurried- ly, her shoes and stockings had not been removed. I-Her first appearance, therefore, after the disaster, was in the character of the ", woman in white." Her gen- tleman friend, with whom at first she had had the 16   242   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR quasi quarrel, kindly lent her his overcoat, which was thrown over her bare shoulders. Upon obtaining her trunk for her instruments, she might have renewed her toilet; but knowing that there would be a necessity for an amount of bloody work, nothing had been added to her dress, as she was thus better able to handle her- self. Her arms were bare like her shoulders. Having brushed the glass out of her hair as well as she could, and laid aside what of it was superfluous, -which -was a good deal, for even Emily followed the fashion,-- the rest was tied up in a simple knot at the back of her head, so as to be out of the way. As work now began in earnest, she gave directions to those at hand with regard to such as were less in- jured. Her orders were brief, but clear, and the people flew about as though a Brigadier-General was issuing his commands. Examination showed to her that there were a few upon whom time spent was only lost. They were past human aid, and all to be done was to moisten their parched lips. Selecting one whom she judged most in need of at- tention, four of the bystanders raised him up, and placed him upon the carpenter bench. She got all the candles and lanterns attainable to afford sufficient light. The means and appliances for surgical work were rather primitive. A billet of wood, over which a coat was folded, raised the patient's head, and Emily prepared for her serious work. The leg had been crushed so that amputation above the knee was necessary. There was no one present who had ever even seen this opera- tion, and all seemed to shrink from participating in it. Her gentleman friend, however, whose Byronic collar had so mysteriously disappeared, manifested a willing-   THE INF. EROR SEX.       243 ness to assist her, although fit was evident that the sights about him had already begun to tell somewhat on his nerves. Emily explained to him that if he was a novice, he would require all the pluck he could com- mand, and briefly showed exactly what she wanted him to do. She moistened a piece of court-plaster, and stuck it on the inside of the groin, over the main ar- tery leading to the leg, telling him to place his thumb on that, and press with all his force, and that if he let go, the man would bleed to death. He intimated that the responsibility was great, but that he would hold on as long as he had any thumbs left. He laid to with undaunted resolution; but from the slightest percepti- ble pallor just faintly visible on the edge of his lips, Emily at once divined that there were two on her hands who needed watching. She took her knife,-long, keen, razor-like,--and drew it clear down to the bone with one sweep half round the limb. The blood flew, and the man screamed with agony, and struggled. The men, however, whom she had had the precaution to station about him, pre- vented him from tearing himself loose, as hed might otherwise have done. Just at this moment she noticed the hand whose thumb was holding the portals of life visibly tremble. She looked at the face; it was deadly pale, and the eyes had a fixed and stony look. He was already in a state of semii-unconsciousness. If that thumb moved, the pa- tient was dead. It was all comprehended at a glance -the imminent peril. She did not screanm; did not flinch. She took her knife,- long, keen, razor-like, -and in a flash cut him on the back of the trem- bling hand. The remedy was desperate, but required.   244   MRS. ARMNG TONV'S WARD, OR The blood spurted, but he held on. The shock lad re- called him to his senses. HHe nodded his lhead, Ihis color returned, and she was exceedingly relieved to hear him hiss between lis now set teeth,-- "Madam, I'm an ass!" She was now master of the situation, and went on with the amputation as coolly as if carving a beefsteak. Warming to her work, all trace of timidity or embar- rassment vanished; and she --felt herself entirely com- petent to deliver a lecture on surgery over the live subject in her hands with the last degree of composure. When the operation was ovelr, and she had taken up the arteries, and put on the last bandage, she took the dissevered member she had been heretofore manipulat- ing with such anxious tenderness, and tossed it into one corner of the barn with a carelessness that startled the lookers on. They fbolgot that it was no longer a man's leg, but a mere bit of cold meat. It is needless to describe all that took place in that rude building. The hours seemed moments. The girl had no rest from her bloody work. Ribs were broken; she set them. Collar-bones Were out of place; she re- stored them. Limbs, fingers, feet, injured in every possible way, received her careful attention; and she had done what was necessary for all the worst cases before any aid from abroad had arrived.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        245 CHAPTER XXIV. "SPEED, MALISE, SPEED!" SuaMaroNs for help had been despatched as soon as the disaster had occurred; but it was the dead of- night, all were asleep, telegraph operators had been dismissed from their posts, and it seemed as though no one could be aroused to a consciousness of what had taken place. But it must be confessed, that when the railroad authorities did fairly get their eyes and ears open, they acted. with the celerity of lightning and steam combined. Orders were flashed over the line; locomotives were fired up; tired engineers, who had fallen asleep on their foot-boards, started when they heard that the best engine on the road had been ditched, and the foremost one of their brotlherhood was dying or dead. Firemen shoved pine knots, and tar, and resin, into their fire-boxes, for rumor, with its tqngue of multi- plied horrors, said that the sufferers were lying in the woods, far away from hunlan help, and succor, to be useful, must come at once. It had been a hard season of overwork, and the whole force of the road was worn down and fagged out; but the men shook their wearied limbs as the tale was told, and each one sprang to his post. A train was made up of two passenger coaches and a baggage car. It was at a large town fifty miles from   246  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR the scene of the accident. Night though it was, the news spread quickly over the place. Physicians vol- unteered their services. People brought to the depot all manner of thing that they thought might by any possibility be useful - mattresses, bedding, pillows, sheets, comforts, clothes of all kinds, for men, women, and children. Edibles-coffee, tea, hospital delica- cies-came pouring in, the spontaneous offering of generous, noble hearts. All at length was ready. The two coaches were filled with medical men, and nurses, male and female, anxious and eager to be of service. - The order came for engine No. 31 to proceed with all haste to -- station, near which the catastrophe had happened, regardless of everything else on the line. The message was received by the engineer, who had come in but a few moments before. Ite had been out for three consecutive nights, and was so wearied that he had fallen asleep in his cab. The first intimation he received of anything unusual was the brief command above He was brother to, the one just killed; but they had not told him the whole truth,- only that his brother's train had been wrecked. He read the mes- sage, and asked the one who brought it,-- "Heard anythin' 'bout Jake?" "Not a word." He was not sleepy now.  He went to work putting the locomotive to rights, oiling a valve here, tightening a nut there, looking to see if this rod were in order; and that pump worked well. He would pat the huge, insensible mass of iron affectionately, and speak to it as though it understood hirl. "Rough work to-night, ole gal! 'Thought we was both near about used up."   THE INFERIOR SEX.        247 He put a few drops of oil in the cylinder cups. "Got fifty miles more in ye to-night, my lady?" He tried the steam-gauge, and pulled out his watch. "Honey,- ye'll do that fifty mile in fifty-six minute, if ye love me. Jake's in a muss." -"All aboard!" He took his place. The bell struck. He laid his hand on the lever, and slowly moved out into the dark- ness; slowly still through the streets, his impatient heart yearning for the open country, - his engine hot and impatient, too, to show what she could do when called upon. The limits of the city soon are reached, and fifty miles of black night ahead. As he gives her steam, he takes out his watch. He knew the road was clear before him, and as he told the fireman to "fill her up," he peered out into the gloom, watching the iron rails as the glare of the head-light lit them up like strips of silver. The drivers began to revolve faster and faster, and as the speed increased, that peculiar clank-clank of the wheels striking the joints startled the air. Alive to the supreme importance of the mo- ment, the fireman fed the flames, and the furnace roared and heaved. . Soon she was doing all there was in her. On they flew, the huge machine vibrating and pitching with the intense velocity like a ship in a storm. As they struck a curve, it would reel and surge, quivering in every fibre of its iron frame. A rushing tornado, they fled by houses and villages on the route, and the startled inhabitants roused& from their dreams only to hear a roar dying away in the distance. Approaching stations, the whistle sounded, and half-awake watchmen, with lanterns in their hands, stared with open mouths as the meteor flashed by.   248   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR     . The engineer stood with the lever in one hand, and his watch in the other, reckoning off the distance, and tapping impatiently with one foot the board beneath him, as though the lightning was hardly fast enougll now. Just ahead, by the gleam of the head-ligolt, he saw an animal in the very act of stepping on the track. He pulled at the throttle, and jerked her IWide open. -The engine gave a convulsive bound, and through the window at his side, as he whizzed past, he could just discern a dark object rolling down the bank, and heard that horrible scream which, it is said, a horse never ut- ters but once. On they flew through the dark night, and half the 'distance done. Rattling over bridges; never slacken- ing for straight or crooked road; the engine doing her utmost every minute of the way, and flinging the miles behind her in utter contempt of time and distance. They passed trains lying upon side tracks, for every- thing had been ordered out of the- way for the relief :train. He saw the white lights signaling that all was clear. Still he stood with the lever in one hand, and his watch in the other, reckoning off the distance, and tapping impatiently with one foot the board be- neath him, as though the lightning was hardly fast enough now.    They tore through the woods, and- shrieked across the open plains; and still the furnace roared, and the engine groaned under the heavy task she was doing so bravely and so well. They near the station. He sees the confuised lights ahead, and is signaled to stop. Hle shuts off; the run is at an end. As he steps to the ground, some  one whispers in his ear. He  starts, and staggers against the engine, which is his love and his pride. He leans ,    . , v   a     THE INFERIOR SEX.       249 his head upon it, and, with his watch still in his han]d, says, - "Fifty mile in fifty-six minute! I knowed ye'd do it, my pretty sweetheart-- for-- for Jake; but-it wa sn't - no use -darling!9" The first gray streaks of dawn were now beginning to light up the eastern sky. The new-comers proceeded to the barn, and, without losing time, went to work on their mercifill mission. Cooking-stoves had been brought along, for some head which had anticipated ev- ery want seemed to have directed things. The women prepared tea, and coffee, and sustenance, for those who were weak and faint from loss of blood. As the day advanced, the flrmers collected from the whole coun- try around. Some undefined intelligence of a fearful calamity had reached them; they hardly knew what it was, but each came with his humble offering for the cause of humanity. They came in their farm wagons, hurrying their jaded horses over the dusty roads. They brought bread and- meat - all they had in their kitch- ens, pantries, cupboards, and closets. They stripped their beds, and left their houses to take care of them- selves. In a neighboring village, a fire company had been recently organized. Hearing there was a dread- ful fire somewhere, they started, and pulled their lum- bering machine, at dead of night, five miles through tile woods, till they reached the smouldering ruins of the burning car, to find that there was no available water withil five miles more. If there is a redeeming feature in great public dis- asters, it is the influence they have in arousing com- munities to respond with all their worldly goods and chattels, as well as the best feelings of their nature, to the appeal for help when suffering humanity calls.   250  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR As there was everything at hand now that the occa- sion seemed to require, --medical gentlemen in abun- dance, and those experienced in matters of the kind,- Emily modestly deferred to others, and resigned to those she deemed more capable the post she had occu- pied as general superintendent, supervisor, and opera- tor of her temporary hospital. -As the professional men on their rounds examined into the condition of the injured, they were surprised to find many instances where operations had been per- formed displaying, not only sound judgment in the course pursued, but the exercise of skill, also, in what had been done. The more they examined, the greater the admiration expressed at what they saw of the treatment adopted; and when they inquired who had occupied the field before them, and Emily was pointed out, the learned doctors were actually dumbfounded. She expected, of' course, that professional pride would find occasion for criticism; but they crowded about her, and overwhelmed her with congratulations. They were kind enough, and candid enoughl to say that there was nothing she had done upon which they could have improved. The contagion of admiration spread among the unprofessional, of whom, by this time, a large number had assembled; and as she moved about among them, they looked upon her with awe, as a be- ing different from the rest of mortal kind. In short, in that limited community, she had suddenly become famous. She was, however, exhausted by physical labor and the great excitement she had endured; and when one of the gentlemen--an eminent surgeon, whose name was familiar to the profession, and whom she had ever held in reverence - took her by the hand,   THE INFERIOR SEX.        251 and began to thank her publicly in behalf of those whose lives she had saved, and whose sufferings she had ameliorated, he had made but little progress in his expressions of heartfelt kindness, when, being only a woman,- one of the inferior sex, a weak vessel, of not, much account in times of trying emergency, --she keeled over into his arms. The little goose had fainted.   2b2  MRS. ARMVGTOO'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XXV. OLLA  PODRIDA. rAD Emily been desirous of a triumphal procession, or any otherlpublic demonstration of honor, the popu- lace would have been only too eager and ready to have manifested their enthusiasm. Nothing would have given their excited and crazy natures greater satisfac- tion than to have fallen down and worlsipped her, and probably to have offered up burnt-offerings of rams, bullocks, and he goats. Some of the more impassioned of those present were canvassing her availability for some future contest with regard to the presidency of the United States, as that is the mode and manner in which the last degree of American admiration and de- votion expresses itself. But her only desire now was to get out of the way as soon as possible. Feeling that she had done all that was in her-power, and that duty required nothing furthenr now that every assistance was present that could be desired, her woman's nature shrank from the notoriety she had so instantly acquired; and even the well-meant expressions of kindness that were showered upon her oppressed her. She did not like to be stared at, even though never so respectfully; and to be con- stantly pointed out to new-comers gave her that un- pleasant sensation a criminal may be supposed to have when the crowd jostle one another for a look at his face.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        253 The next means of conveyance, therefore, that en- abled her to resume her journey she availed herself of, although not until she had once more gone around among her late patients, and spoken to them words of hope and good cheer. Drawn to them by that uncon- scious sympathy that spontaneously springs up between the professional person and those who have been saved firom suffering and death, she could not conceal her in- terest in their welfare; and she was more than repaid by the gratitude they showed. The man whose leg she had first amputated was so feeble from the pain he had suffered, and loss of blood, that she feared he could not recover. He was not able to speak, but as she took his hand to bid him good by, he looked at her earnestly, and seemed loath to let her go. He endeavored to say sometling, but was too far gone; and she left him, fearing that it would soon be over with him. She parted with considerable feeling from the friend who had performed the part of able assistant. The extraordinary occurrences through which they had just passed had inspired that mutual regard which often arises even between strangers when thrown together under circumstances of great peril or distress. His coat was still buttoned up to his throat, and the Byronic- collar had not yet made its reappearance. His hand was bandaged. She approached hinm with some trepidation to apologize for the roughness with which she had treated him. ' Miss," he replied, "I beg- you will not mention it. You did right--entirely right. Indeed, I may say you were not quite right enough. It would have been more proper for you to have cut my throat."  d    254   MRS. ARMNGTONrS WARD, OR "But in that case," she demurely said, "you would certainly have let go, and spoiled my operation." "I think not," he replied, hastily,--"I think not. I am constrained to believe, that after that last look you gave me, I should have held on if you really had taken my head off. Indeed, upon further reflection, I am convinced of it.' "At all events," she returned, offering him her hand, "I hope you will not remember it against me." "Remember it, miss?" he said, with growing en- thusiasm,-"remember it, miss? Of course I shall. When I return to my home I will show this cut to my wife and children. I will explain the facts. As near as possible, I will observe in the following language, to wit: Here, Jane,' - Jane's her name - best woman I ever knew,-that is, up to day before yesterday,- 'Jane,' I'll say, 'you see that cut, you and the children. Well, now, just look at it. That cut is a token. It showed me of what small account I, a big, strong man, was in an emergency, and how superior a weak woman is when her soul, and heart, and will, back her up in what she conceives to be her duty.' And I shall also tell them-" "About the sleeve-butstons -won't you?" and, with a smile, Emily glided away. She reached home without further adventure. Mrs. Armington greeted her with open arms. The chap called Fame, that goes about blowing a noisy trumpet, - though he sometimes blows it with an indiscriminate vigor,- had preceded her. When she opened the morn- ing papers, she saw her name in the largest possible let- ters. There were telegraphic despatches with the usual amount of exaggeration, which is always enormous, the   THE INFERIOR   SEXY.     255 purport of them being to m4ke-her a heroine, which she did not at all want to be, as it did not seem to lier in the line of her professional duties. Mr. and Mrs. Armington would gladly have offered ler a honme again, but she preferred relying upon, her- self; and taking a modest cottage in a retired part of the city, she and her brother went to housekeeping. It was rather a venturesome experiment, as all the actual means she possessed was Jack's salary, which was not equal to the annual interest on the national debt. Mrs. Armington insisted on furnishing the little cot- tage, which she did from top to toe. The good woman did not stop particularly to consult either brother or sister; she simply went and looked over the ground, and, in her usual fashion, proceeded to business. She did -what women in the same situation always do, and do so effectually; she gadded about--gadded to the far- niture stores. 'First to this one, and looked it over with her stick. Then she went to another, and looked it over for all the world as though she had never been in a furniture store before. Still again to another, the stick always along, and the goods, wares, and merchan- dise were scrutinized with unsparing research. Emily would fain be satisfied with the first thing she saw, but not so the oild lady; she meant business, and in order to- be successful, it was necessary to know what the market afforded. The complications of the transaction appeared to grow as they progressed. When the furniture estab- lishments had been exhausted without any ultimate re- sult, Mrs. Armington commenced to gad about among the carpet stores, "Because, you see, my dear, you   256   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR must select your furniture and carpets so as to corre- spond." The stick, therefore, pointed to a roll of carpet, which the gentlemanly clerk unrolled, and displayed to its best advantage, as only gentlermanly clerks know how to do. "Now, that figure, you see, my dear, is very elegant, but it is too large for the cottage rooms." So the stick motioned that it be rolled up and put away, and it was rolled up and. put away. Mrs. Ar- mington generally conversed on such subjects by means of her stick. Then down came another at the stick's behest. The stick pointed at this or that roll, and the gentlemanly clerk understood without further direction. One pattern was very brilliant, and Emily, charmed with its appearance, signified her approval; but the old lady cut the matter short. "Too bright, Em.  Sun will fade it." The stick flourished, and the glolious hues were con- signed to obscurity. Patterns of various descriptions were- shown. The stick liked some, and waved defiance to others; and when they had gone through the entire stock, they went to another store, and there repeated the process. Then, when they had seen all, came the arduous task of comparing and finally determining. There was a chbrming black walnut set at one place, and a lovely one of oak at another; but the rosewood at Blanchard's was a  perfect duck, and as the last day out happened to be a  good one for ducks, rosewood prevailed. That was for Emily's room. Jack's was chosen with less difficulty; and these important points settled, the car- pets soon fell into line.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        257 This is the process of gadding. Nor was it all ac- complished in a day-not by any manner of means. ,Jf that could be done, women could not gad at all. It took Mrs. Armington and the stick a solid week to furnish that little cottage; but when the task was done, it was to her entire satisfaction. So this was home. Emily had a sign painted with "'M. D." upon it, and was actually astonished at her audacity when she saw it displayed for the first time. She was not only a favorite with Mrs. Armington, but 1Mr. Armington as well, after his. first early ac- quaintance had satisfied him she was not a thief or burgl ar. It has been said that he was advanced in years; and being a man of wealth, and retired from the active du- ties of life, abundant leisure gave him- as it always does--both time and inclination to think about his health,--not that anything w'ls ever the matter with hm; but from the moment le began to "study " his "constitution,"ias he termed it, from that moment he became convinced that it was impaired in many partic- ulars. He frequently consulted physicians, wAho never could satisfactorily tell what ailed him, because nothing did. They would, however, prescribe, and he was al- ways "taking something." He would take a tonic to do something, a pill to move something, and generally had a row of bottles of all shaples and sizes, and every degreee of unwholesomeness, with which he solaced himself daily. His Wnife was wont to make a little fun occasionally at Ilis peculiarities; but he invariably fell back upon his "constitution," which he "thoroughly understood." This silenced her, though the boys sometimes impu- 17   258   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR dently asked what effect he found the fifteenth amend- ment had on his general health. Emily was a godsend to him. He consulted her the first day of her arrival, and took her prescription the next; and she was a continual source of comfort and delight. He was not one of those unpleasant valetudinarians who are always detailing their symptoms, and discours- ing in public about their bowels. He simply amused himself with pharmaceutical experiments upon his ir- terior economy, not unfiequently admitting the joke upon himself. "'The boys" met their early friend and protegee again with great interest; and Mr. Charles, when he first saw her after the lapse of such a time, was power- fully struck with the difference between the ragged, unclean little urchin of early days, on the lhotel steps, that December night, and the girl Ibefore him. ,: She was not what would be called a beauty,--that is, she was not one of these ethereal visions of loveli- ness that come over the spirit like a dream. Her fig- -ure was rather small, but it was faultless. Her hand and arm might have been models for an artist. Her little foot, with its high, arched instep, showed blood, if ever foot did, and that is said to be the place to look for it. Her eye was dark hazel, with long lashes,- not peculiarly striking until she was excited; and then it flashed fire. The most attractive thing about her face was the sweet expression of her smile, displaying a beautifully regular, even, white set of teeth. There was an. aristo- cratic toss to her head, which was small; and the ear was thoroughbred.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        259 "Indeed, Miss Emily," was Mr. Charles's first ob- servation, "you have become famous!" 6"Come, now, Charlie, please don't be a goose!" "Not if I can help it. But I fear you may not re- ceive your old friends as once you did." "The fact is, Charlie, I suppose I did nothing but what any one else would. We had a fearful accident, and I presume no one was more frightened than I was. At one time it looked as though we should all be burned up, and after that the scene was certainly fear- ful. There was no one else who seemed to know any- thing of surgery; so it naturally fell upon me. There was no opportunity to shirk, even had I been so dis- posed, and I simply went ahead, and did the best I could; and that is all there is of it." "Modest merit, Em; but do not let it be the-death of you." "Never fear, my friend. But having discussed the topic this much, suppose we vary it. Do you see much lately of -our old friends, the French people?" "I meet them quite often, and they always speak of you with great kindness. You must go with me soon to see them." In compliance, therefore, with this request, she went to see Cummings, or De Beranger, as he may be indif- ferently termed, and upon meeting him again after so long an absence, was struck with something in his ap- pearance or demeanor she had never noticed before. She could not tell what it was, but she was deeply im- pressed. The old man greeted her with high courtesy, and welcomed her back with a show of deference that was almost embarrassing. Whether this was the cause of her interest or not, she could not say; but she found   260   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR herself time and again, unconsciously almost, staring at his face with a pertinacity she felt to be rude. She en- deavored to check herself, and repeatedly turned away; but again, and before she knew i't, she found herself re-  garding him intently. It'seemed to be a fascination she was unable to resist. And afterwards she seemed to be haunted, as if by an apparition. She said to her firiend and compnaion,- "Charlie, have you not sometimes seen people whlose faces seem to llaunt you'? Sometling in their looks or actions reminds you of things you have seen in the past, You may satisfy yourself, by convelsation with them, that you have never met them, even; and yet there is a dim. hazy recognition floating about, as it were, in the deepest mists of memory, memorle as though you had known them in some previous state of exist- ence than actually upon this earth." 'I do not know, Emily, that I h'nve ever had that kind of experience. But to what does this tend? ;' "I hardly know that I can tell. Of course, I bhavoe often before seen Mr. Cummings and his wife,-De' Beranger, if they are now so called, - and never until. now have they particularly attracted my attention. But if there is such a thing as transmigration of the soul, I must have known them when I was a cat, or a fowl, or some other animal." "Why," replied the young man, "you knew them before you went away.': ,; That is not it,' she said, decidedly. "All that ac.. quaintance with theln is distinct in my memory. It is something long anterior to that, and altogether misty. I can see no probable way in which our paths of life could have crossed previous to my meeting them with   THE INFERIOR SEX.        261 you. He is a rich Frenchman, evidently used to high society; and H- Well, you know what I am." ," Yes; you are one that will make high society wherever you go." "Bother, now, Mr. Armington! Please talk to me as though I had good sense. Just suppose I had, you know; the fiction will do you no harm, and will be agreeable to me." "Do you, then, not like flattery?" "Certainly I do. Every one does, so you draw it mildly, my friend. But I wanted to ask you more about Mr. Cummings, to see if I could divine a mys- tery that seems to oppress me." He told her all he knew, which was not much more than she had already learned; but when the narrative was ended, Emily sadly shook her head, as though it was a matter of grave disappointment. It was some time after this that Emily told Mrs. Ar- mington a dream. She said that she was very much struck upon meeting Mr. Cummings and his wife the first time after her return. So great was the impression thlat, in the same night, she had dreamed about them. In the fancies of sleep, she saw them in the country. There was a white farm-house near a lane, on the other side of which was a large barn and corn-crib. There was an orchard, where the children gathered apples, and made cider. The farm-house faced the south, and on that side was a polcI, where honeysuckles and lorning-glories grew. The well was at the end of the porch, with its huge sweep that drew up the well- bucket, not far from which was an old-fashioned oven, There were two old people here. They appeared to her in her dream, but seemed desirous of concealing   262  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR their faces, so as to avoid recognition. Whenever she saw them, and tried to catch a glimpse of their features, they would turn away, and baffle her. She thought - they were the French people, but was unable to tell. It seemed to her in her vision that she lived at this farm-house, and had such a beautiful life! She went with the reapers when they cut the bearded grain; was in the hay-field when the mowers were at work; she saw them whet the scythe, and lay the tall grass low; she worked-busily with the rest; with her little rake, when the men made up the hay-cocks, she would rake them down, thinking it was all in the line of business, and was such great fun! Then the old man would come behind her, and toss her up in the air, calling her a great mischief; but when she tried to look at him, he would keep behind her, or put his great hand over her eyes, and throw her up on. the top of the hay- wagon, where she would ride off in high triumph. At the entrance of the lane leading by the house were A some grand old beech woods, amid whose cool retreats she used to go in the-heat of the day, and sit by the hour, listening to the songs of birds, or picking mosses and wild flowers. The oven that stood near the house, in her fancies, appeared to be a remarkable institution. She saw the old man, whoever it was, spend the most of a forenoon in heating it up with a huge fire of wood. She herself, with other children, also incapable of identification, were busily engaged in carrying chips and other arti- cles of combustion to feed the flames; and when the proper calorific state had been attained, the process of baking began. Huge loaves of bread, innumerable pies, oceans of pans filled with apples and pears, came forth   TI-E INFERIOR SEX.       263 from that wonderful oven, to the intense delight and profound amazement of all beholders. The mistress of the domain of mythical existence dispensed to children who only floated in the air these luxuries; but who or what they all were was something her dream failed to reveal. Like all the queer and incongruous phantasies of sleep, this dream which seemed to her more like a mem- ory of some childhood other than her own--was, strangely mixed up with the events of her later life. As she looked down into the deep depths of the well by the farm-house porch, and saw the bright sheen in the water at the bottom, comfortably there, reposing in her arm-chair, twenty feet below the surface, sat Mrs. Armington, cutting -off old Mr. Cummings's leg. She was out in the field harvesting; getting on the hay- wagon to ride into the barn, the horses were suddenly converted into a snorting locomotive, the wagon be- came a train of cars, and away they went at lightning speed over the farm, through the orchard, into the beech woods, up on the top of the house; and then, taking a plunge, the whole concern lit right in the mouth of the oven, where they careered, around amid baked pears, roasted apples, and mince pies, till the thing blew up, and the locomotive flew off to the moon; and she distinctly saw the man in that planet wink at the performance. This, and much more like it, perPlexed her. As she told it all to her kind friend, the old lady was much amused, but of course ascribed it to the vagaries of her sleeping moments; though Emily still had an idea that there, was more in it than a dream merely. After a while, however, it measurably passed from her mind,   '264  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR, and she thought of 'it only as onie of those curious fireaks of fancy for which no cause can be assigned. She had lived in her little cottage with Jack two or three months. Her professional success was all that could have been desired much more than she had ever anticipated. One Saturday afternoon an express wagon, laden with all manner of boxes and barrels, Ium- bered up to the door, and an old woman landed on the pavement in front of the house, making inquiry for Em- ily. That lady invited her in, and requested her to be seated. She was evidently a plain person from the rural districts-one of the "mothers of our forest land." Her dress was homespun, doubtless woven by her own hands, the bonnet might be termed "countrified," and the shoes were not such as are ordinarily selected in which to chase the winged hours with flying feet. Her first greeting was to take both of Emily's hands in her own-." I know you, miss; knew you as soon as I set eyes on you. You was the one that cut off my boy's leg at  station. He told me about you; and if I'd have seen you among a thousand, I would haves known who you were. You saved his life 'that night, and le tells about you every day-- you were so good, and so brave, and so handsome! He was the only son I had, and he's got so now he can go about on his crutch; and though he lwas but one leg left, he is my son for all that; and I wanted to come here and see you just once, for I am getting old, and can't go about like when Iwas young. I don't know how to tell you, lady, how much I owe to you, for if he had died, -and I was afraid he would after they brought him home,- I know I should have gone along with him.", As she was speaking thus, the expressman had been   THE INFERIOR SEX.         26 busily engaged transferring his load of boxes and ba r rels from the wagon to the house, and unpacking thei L contents; and Emily, to her amazement, saw her floor littered with buckets of apple-sauce, jars of honey, bot- tles of pickles, a firkin of butter, a lot of dressed chick- ens, and pretty much every variety of country produce, winding up with a pair of live turkeys that seized the occasion to set up a vociferous gobbling. ," You won't be offended, miss, for we're only poor people, and money can't pay for such things as you've done, - lenstways, not in the eyes of those for whom you have done them; and if it was a thousand dollars, I should only be too proud to give it to you." She put in her hands what Emily saw was ten dollars in fractional currency, and went on:- "I have come seventy miles, miss, only to see you, and thank you for your goodness. Please let me kiss you." Emily felt her hearty embrace, the pressure on her lips; and before she could recover herself, the old woman had cleared out, mounted the express cart, and off she went, leaving the fair devotee of science stand- ing in the middle of the room with her hands filll of the paper representations of value, beleaguered with buck- ets of apple-sauce, jars of honey, pickles, butter, and chickens, while the turkeys gobbled in an entirely out- rageous manner.   266   AMRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XXVI. EMLY IS SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF EMOTIONS. PERHAPS a faithful chronicler of events should detail more at length the history of Emily's professional life, though, presumably, it was not different from that of others who have pursued similar vocations. True, she had not turned the world upside down, caused the rivers to run up hill, nor accomplished any of those astounding results that pertain only to the heroines of fiction. But this being a narration, merely, of actual occurrences, a just regard for truth demands that facts alone be stated. If she had not attained the highest rank in the call- ing she had chosen, at least she had secured the pro- found respect of such scientific men as she had come in contact with. The clearness of her judgment, and the soundness of her views, impressed those who were much her senior in years, experience, and reputation. There was no time of epidemic or contagion, when others would, and did, shink from the discharge of dangerous duty, that for a moment caused her to quail, when it might have been pardonable, perhaps, in a delicate woman.  But she had that calm fortitude that would go through anytfing, that would undertake the task, too, without stopping to look ahead, or to con- sider consequences. . If she made up -her mind to go, she went. Nor was it any spirit of reckless bravado   THE INVFERIOR SEX.       267 which prompted her. She knew, oftentimes, that she carried her life in her hand; but sustained by that un- faltering trust, which alone makes courage a virtue, she knew that the unseen Hand would guide her steps arilght. Altlough her prospects were such as to indicate that a few years would bring her comfort, if not absolute wealth, yet her fondness was to visit the poor. She had been poor herself, and knew how hard it was to be desolate and friendless, and among?the humbler classes of society was her daily walk. They all knew her and loved her. She had stood at their bedsides, and remained for hours fighting the battle on behalf of the sick, when other physicians would spend a hurried five minutes and go away, leaving the sufferer to think he must be of very little account, or the doctor must be a very great man. She was one of those rare speci- mens of scientific or professional persons that are entirely human, and it was a not uncommon statement that her patients made in saying that they rather en- joyed a mild type of disease, simply for the pleasure of having her attend them. Her manner in a sick-room was, of itself, a charm. She never came with heavy squeaking boots, as though her express object was to put somebody to death. She did not approach a patient with that lugubrious ex. pression of countenance which long familiarity with scenes of distress has made natural to some, and which is assumed by others as appropriate to the solemnities of the occasion, and which inspires the timid with an apprehension that would express itself in the ejacula- tion, "O, doctor! is there no hope?" She came like sunlight into gloom, and darkness fled at her coming.   268   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR Thus her life was a round of duty faithfully per- formed, and it brought that satisfaction which a g6od conscience affords. A problem had presented itself to the girl's mind, which, latterly, had occupied her attention a great deal, and the more she workled at it, the more anxiety it had occasioned her,.  She was with the friend of her childhood, her youth, and her more mature age. They had talked of many matters of common interest, after which a long silence ensued, and Emily was, absorbed in deep reflection. Suddenly she broke forth, with vehemence in her manner, - "Mrs. Armington, did it ever occur to you to ask who I amin?" That lady, somewhat taken aback at such an irrele- vant question, looked up over the top of her spectacles a moment, and then replied,- "Why, I need not ask; I know. You are just the dearest girl in the world!" Emily knelt at her side, and throwing her arms about her neck, kissed her on both cheeks. "My more than mother," she said, while her scarcely repressed agitation showed itself through the windows of her eyes like the rain-drops upon the glass, " my more than mother, what I might have been without you, the fate of an orphan child, left desolate in the haunts of poverty, wretchedness, and vice, with no hand to stay her from that abyss where infamy and shame compass the ruin of the soul, might too sadly tell. What I am is only because an angel of light took me from the horrors of living death, and brought me up into that clear atmosphere where purity dispels *   THE INFERIOR SEX.        269 those dark surroundings, upon which I cannot even now look back without a shudder. For safe though I am, with your encircling love about me, I can yet re- fmtember what evil thoughts seized upon me in those awful days of my childhood, when I almost felt that God himself had turned his face away and left me alone, as more unworthy of his care than the sparrow that falls to the ground." "Why, my child!" exclaimed Mrs. Armington- and the old lady took off her glasses, wiped and put them on again; foulnd she could not see, and laid them on the work-stand. Then she put her sewing away, and having cleared the decks for action, continued- "Why, my child, what has frightened you? Really I never saw you so before. What has happened to you?"  "I am not frightened," she replied, "except I some- times think that I am imposing upon and deceiving you, and yet I feel that I am altogether helpless. Of my birth and parentage, I know nothing, and yet you have taken mne to your heart, and I sometimes fear that the future may reveal that which might cause you to hate and loathe me." "IIte you, my darling!" she said. "Have I brought you up all these years-- Why, Em, you're a goose - now there!" Only smniling at Mrs. Armington's vehemence, she went on, -- "I have long thought that I should like to find- that it is, perhaps, my duty to myself and to my brother and sister -to find who our parents are; but then that same undefined terror comes over ne, that, perhaps, they might be unworthy of- not of me, but of you."   270   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR "My child, of one thing you' may be always certain, whether you ever learn the fact or not: be assured that your parentage was honorable; that the blood in your ;veins is, if not high, at least of respectable and worthy lineage. The house from which my tdaughter came," stroking her hair tenderly as she spoke, " had no stain upon its shield." "It is very pleasant for me to hear you say this; but still you have nothing except your own kindness and love on which to base such an opinion. You first knew me as a ragged little beggar, and I remember to this hour how shocked you were when you came into the kitchen and saw what unclean birds we three were. Since then no clue to whence we came, or where we belonged, has ever appeared, and no one knows to- day whether I am the daughter of a prince or of a thief. It is this which has disquieted me so much of late. I lie awake at night and think about it. I am haunted in my day-dreams, and it seems as though all I meet had upon their tongues the question, 'Pray, whose child are you?' It is this question that I feel I must know how to answer.." "But, Emily," returned the old lady, " you certainly know that your father fell a brave soldier in a glorious cause, and the child he left behind him should, at least, remember that his name and memory will be honored by the nation whose battles he fought."* "That name even, Mrs. Armington, I do not know. My mother, almost with her last words, told me that the one by which we passed was assumed, but that father, on his return finom the wars, would reveal what she feared to do. I was too young then to take much thought of it, but there was some mystery about her   THE INFERIOR SEX.        271 life that caused her deep sorrow, and of which she dreaded speaking. I can still recall her pale, sweet face, for though she was uncomplaining, there was something that wore upon her day by day until the end came, and we were left alone. I cannot believe that any sin rested upon her soul, for she was too good and pure; but what she was, and who she was, I do n-ot kuow." Mrs. Armington had listened with increasing atten- tion, for the things of which Emily had been speaking had never before presented themselves in the light in which they now appeared; and though she had not thought of it, it did seem as though the question that was being suggested was one of considerable in- terest, at least to the girl herself, and she therefore said, with her usual promptness,- "Well, Em, if we don't know who we are, we must find out, and when we undertake a thing, we generally do it. In the mean time you must not fret yourself about the matter, for you need not apprehend that any one intends to be impertinent to you; but if they should, I will see that they are sorry for it. I have no doubt at all but that it will come about properly, some of these days, and that you will learn what you so much wish to know.  The good Lord does these things in his own way, and I have never yet known of any method of improving upon the management. "Now," she continued, "let us change the subject; you must not get morbid. I was morbid myself once for three weeks, and you have no idea how horrid it is. I presume it must be worse than delirium tremens, so we will not be morbid for any consideration." Doubtless it was just as well that the young gentle-   272   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR men came in at this juncture, as their appearance diverted a train of thought that had already become painful. After an hour of general conversation, as the evening was well advanced, Emily arose to go, and began making preparations for her return to the cottage. In such matters as these, lMr. Charles was of  great assistance, at least he thought he was. The night was not particularly cold; indeed, it might have been considered rather balmly than otherwise? but Miss Emily's shawl required to be arranged so as to be comfortable. And it took the greatest minount of ar. ranging ever was heard of before it attained, in Mr. Charles's estimation, the requisite degree of comfort. Then the head-gear demanded great attention. It was a   long, light, gossamer, topgallant kind of flying rig- ging, that wound and folded around the lead, in such a way that, when finally done up, it resembled a half: bushel of white floss, from which a rosy face, like a ripe peach, was peeping out. Over this elaborate arrange- ment Master Charles also spent his best energies, till. Rob, who had been wickedly watching the pantominme from the other side of the parlor, suddenly bawled OUt --  "I say, Charlie, what are you foolin' about Em's top. knot in that kind of style for? You bother the poor girl to death;" ! To which the "poor girl" responded with a degree of animation remarkable for one in the vicipity of death, and with a small stamp of her little footl- "Rob, you're just a hateful thing, and if I was over there I'd box you! i "My divinity!" the monster replied, "box- do box. Beat me to death with roses! Pound me to a   THE INFERIOR SEX.       273 jelly with lilies. Smash my sconce with the zephyrs that float on the morning mist! But - Em --mind your eye!" ! And 'pray, sir," she said, advancing into the middle of the room, her cheek a little bit like peonies, "what do you mean by your impertinence?" "Mel  Impertinent!" he replied, dropping on his knee with mock humility. "Impertinent! and to you! Alas, fair lady, thou knowest not how like the serpent's molars thy words pierce me! Banish from thy soul the memory of this wrong, and on the honor of a Christian knight I promise that next time Charlie may tie your head up into forty bow-knots and I won't see a word of it." Thereupon, and without further parley, she flounced out of the room and past Charlie, who, during this little episode, had been engaged in the hall looking up Ilis hlat, which was never where it ought to be, and she was out of the front door before he knew it. It was not difficuit to overtake her, however, and he escorted her to her place of residence. It does not appear how it happened, but it must have taken the young man a remarkably long time to walk to the cottage and back that evening, for he did not return home till after midnight; and as he passed hisF brother's room on the way to his own, that facetious gentleman called out to him, "Charlie, did the police get you in the station-house? Did they comprehend you as a vagrant? Where have you been for the last tw o hours and a half?" There was no reply; but Charlie heard his brother indulge in a hearty chuckle as he turned over in bed and settled his night-cap. 18   274   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XXVII. WHO CAN IT BE? "How has my French noble been for the last few days?" was Mrs. Armington's question. Emily was engaged in her practice, and the old man, whenever troubled with any of his bodily ailments, in- variably sent for her. In time her gentleness won upon him as it did upon all. He had been ill, and she had been assiduous in her attention. In reply, therefore, to Mrs. Armington, she said,- "He is a very aged man, and does not seem to rally. It is nearly a month since he has left his bed, and whether he will leave it again I very much doubt. He has himself made up his mind that he is not long for this world; and when I was there this morning, he made me promise to bling you to see him to-morrow." On the following day, therefore, they visited the sick man. The case had not been overstated, nor the dan- ger exaggerated. It was even worse than had been represented; for Ernily-found that the last twenty-four hours had wrought a marked change, and that but small hope remained that even another dawn would see him upon earth. His wife, who had attended him with untiring devo- tion, told them how he had been wandering through- out the entire night, and talking incoherently of scenes and days that had been long forgotten. It is said to   THE INFERIOR SEX.        275 be a phenomenon peculiar to the close of aged life, that although the infirmities of nature may have im- paired the memory to an almost destructive degree, and though events of recent date may be hopelessly forgotten, yet those of earlier years are recalled with precision and,distinctness. If youth is the season of joy, and age of sorrow, it may be that the soul, prepar- ing to leave its mortal tenement, and take its flight to that spirit land where youth and the happiness of youth are etcrnal, seeks to bear with it only\pleasant remem- brances of earth, with which, like bridal robes, to enter the pearly gates. In the midst of his rapid, incessant talking, his wife asked if' he knew her. He stopped, looked at her ear- nestly, and pronounced her maiden name. The fixed and glassy eye did not see the old, blind, wrinkled wo- man, but the fair girl at whose side he had stood in sun- ny France fifty years ago. He remembered only that first love of life's morning, when the spirit was young; and with all the ardor of days long past, it returned to him once again with the fulness and freshness of its birth. As Mrs. Armington and Emily' looked at him, it was evident that he was not himself. When he ob- served the young girl, he started, as though she were a stranger to him, or as though some new revelation had come to him. He followed her with his eyes, as she moved about the room. Regardless of everything else, he seemed intent only on watching her. She came and took his hand; and he still looked at her with an expression of wonderment so marked that, al- though accustomed to scenes of the kind, she could not but feel, if not actually startled, at least uneasy. \     276   MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR She spoke soothingly to him, and listened to his ram. bling words, but could gather nothing intelligible. Still looking at her, and retaining her hand with a fee- ble grasp, he repeated a numbel of times a name which Emily was unable to recognize, but which the old woman said was "Honore"--, our daugwhter," she said, and for the first time gave way to feelings which sloe had not before evinced; for she sat down upon her chair, rocking back and forth violently, and, with her face in her apron,' repeating the words, "Honor6e, our daughter, our daughter!" Neither Mrs. Armington nor Emily, through all their acquaintance with the old people, had imagined that they had children, as no allusion to anything of the kind had ever escaped the lips of either; and their as- tonishment was therefore great at what they now heard. Mrs. Armington spoke kindly to the old wo- man, telling her she must control herself, as the old man was evidently endeavoring to communicate something, and she must retain command of her faculties, as upon her they must principally depend. They all stood around the bed, the old man retaining Emily's hand; and she felt him draw her towards him. The motion was slight, as but little strength was now left. She leaned down, putting her ear to his lips. He said something scarcely above a whisper. She listened again. It was repeated, but she was unable to catch the words. Raising herself, she saw in his eyes, even faded and filmy as they were, a look of eager anticipa- tion, which plainly asked if he were understood. She shook her head. The look of the faded and filmy eyes changed from eager anticipation to -disappointed sor- row. It was quick, like a flash of lightning, and,   THE INFERIOR SEX.     a   27' like lightning, for a brief instant of time, lit up the da'k recesses of the expiring soul, -but in a moment the gloom returned. They again tried. That he was anxious to tell some- thing was entirely'apparent; and his inability to im- part what he wished seemed to-increase his agitation. It was also evident that he was conscious of his own helplessness, and that he knew his time was short. The season of' delirium was over; and there had returned that moment of self-possession which often precedes dissolution. How wretched must the spirit be, when, lingering upon the brink, and eager to reveal a secret, perhaps of the last, impoltance,-it perceiv'es that, through fail- ure of the physical forces, it must depart, and make no sign. The impatient, eager glances of the old man seemed to say, plainer than spoken words, "Is there not some one whoml I can make to .understand?  Must I go henlce, and be no more, and let it die with me? They racked ingenuity to see if they could devise any means of finding out what he was so longing to tell, for the sands were running fast. They listened again, but the whisper was even feebler than before. At each attempt he had that' look of eager anticipation, as though hoping they would understand. Then fol- lowed the same disappointed sorrow, for the sands were running faster and faster. And when he seemed to abandon all expectation, and was no longer capable of tlhe feeblest utterance, he still lay with his hand in Em- ily's, and his gaze fixed upon her intently. As she thus sat watching him, suddenly she saw the light go out of his eyes.   278  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR The last rites had been performed which consigned the dust to its final rest. Mrs. Armington had been deeply impressed with the last scene in the sick-room, and her quick woman's wit had jumped to a conclusion which she hardly dared admit to herself. There was no logical process by which she could justify her thoughts; but women despise logic, and have all the more confidence in themselves because they do. At the first appropriate opportunity, therefore, she sought the widow of the Frenchman, to question her about her dauglll;er. It was a sad- topic, for at the mention of her nlame, the old face was again bowed, and the fountains of bitterness opened afiesh. They had once been wealthy, but owring to the vi- cissitudes of fortune in their native land, they had lost their possessions. But even in their poverty life had been made radiant by a child, who was the source of their happiness. She was a loving daughter; and such are the idols of home. She had grown to womanhood with them while they lived in their humble home in beautiful France. There came a stranger-- the usual story. He was young and handsome. The rustic beauty had not been accustomed to such. The hardy sons of toil that till the glebe may be diamonds, but the setting is rough. She was more refined and deli- cate in her thoughts than the plain country people whom she daily met; for though all loved her, there was yet about her a certain air that made them call her, not in reproach, but admiration, "Queen ." And queen she was, with her dainty figure, her rounded arm, and head with just a toss of saucy inde- pendence. He was the first one she had ever met who seemed   THE INFERIOR SEX.'       279 to be a kindred soul, and he breathed sweet things into her ear which found the way to her-heart. The old people knew nothing of it until she had left her home, and fled. But whither? ah! whither? It was long ere they again heard of her, and then it was in far-off America; and thither they went to seek her. She came to them in their country home with her child. The little one grew, became sunshine to their old hearts, and wound her way into their affections like another daughter of their own. Afterwards she told them that her husband had sent for her; that he was prosperous now, and loved her dearly; and that she would have with him her home. They tried to dissuade her, but the cords that drew her were stronger than the ties which held her back. They wanted her to leave her child. They told her they would safely care for it, and in the unknown fu- ture she might be helpless to guard it. But her moth- er's heart strove within her; and though she was de- parting into the wilderness to wander, yet she knew that the angel of God had called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto he;r, "What aileth thee, Hagar? Fear not." Thus they lost her. Of her after life they had not heard. Had it been of prosperity, as she hoped, they knew she would not have maintained unbroken silence. But she was proud, and they believed she shunned to increase their sorrows by the addition of her own. Not possessing the means to institute a search for her, they could only wait, and hope fronm one day to another that they would once more be gladdened by her pres- ence.   280   M'RS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR And years passed, and hearts were very sick and sore. They gradually ceased to speak her name, and so buried in their deepest love the remembrance of her bright and beautiful being. Mrs. Armington had listened with deepest interest to the tale, as she elicited it by degrees from the old woman. She questioned her closely about leaving her home in France, and of their residence in this country, desiring to know if they had left at the farm-house any- thing in the shape of books, or papers, or furniture. The pulpose of these queries was not indicated. It seemed that whern they had left the place in search of their new- found fortune, not being sanguine as to the successful issue of the events of which they had been first in- folrmed by Mr. Charles Armington,they had broulght nothing with them, thinking it more than probable that they would soon return. Tile old man, more particu- larly, had been disposed to look upon the fact of his large estates as more than - mythical, and had therefore simply allowed an acquaintance-a widow with one son- to occupy the premises until such time as they should come back; rwhether as wealthy citizens or the humble people they l;had been, being a question for the future to determine. Mrs. Armington revolved th]ese matters in her mind. She bestowed-upon them a great deal of thought, and was nore interested in the history of the old French p]eople than ever before, although she had been a par- tisaln, even to bitterness, in the protracted controversy which finally restored them to wealth. She felt grow- ing within her a presentiment of--well, she did not know what; but she thought great thoughts. In the course of the conversation firom which she   THE INFERIOR SEX.        -281 had derived the above information, and at subsequent times, she had strengthened those suspicions which long ago-had occasioned her to apply to the old man her favorite appellation of the "French noble;" and she came more and more to the belief that the Cum- nmings, as they laad always been called, must have been inll their native land people of high rank. With this notionl in her head, it was not her way to stop until she had arrived at a satisfactory solution. The information derived from the widow was not explicit. The subject was one she seemed desirous of avoiding; and Mrs. Armington accounted for this by the supposition that they might have been political refilgees, who feared that an acknowledgment of their identity would involve them in serious inconvenience, if not danger. Such fbars mnight not have been ill foudllld, as it has been a prevailing custom among European nations for one half of the people to amuse themselves with the pastime of cutting off the heads of the other half, until the next revolution occurs; which nmerely means that those whose heads were destined for that unpleasant operation, having now the upper hand, proceed to retort upon the half whose heads have hitherto remained intact. The consequence is, that no matter which side is in power, there has always been a class of the community which lbas discovered that the safest way to preserve a complete physical organiza- tion is by-running away; and it is never safe for these to come back. For should they start upon receipt of the news that their house, dynasty, empire, or what- ever it is callecl,is uppermost, the probability would be, that before they reached their destination the ta- bles would again be turned, and they would be just in   282   MRS. ARMNGTON'S TtARD, OR         / time to find themselves seized and carted through the streets to the place of execution. It is cheerful to own allegiance to a government that is turned upside down every sixty days or thereabouts, and where a man dares not to support the existing one for fear of being proven a traitor to the next. Whether such a knowledge of the political frame- work of society had inspired Mrs. Armington's friends- with the awe that had so long sealed their lips, or whether it was from other reasons, certain it is that that lady found herself surprised that she knew so little about them, as well as provoked that she had never hitherto sought to learn more. But she had now determined to know all there was to be known, and fully gave her mind to that undertaking. She imagined the most proper direction in which to push her investigations was that which led to the home in the country. There would be no difficulty in finding the place, fts her son had alleady been there; but how to accomplish the journey troubled her. She desired to keep it a secret, at least from Emily, for she could as yet give no satisfactory reason for undertaking such a Quixotic expedition; yet she felt this would be im- possible, as she could not be absent a day without the girl missing her, and she disliked exhibiting to her anvy- tiling like a want of confidence. Finally she concluded to tell Emily just what she in- tended to do, without assigning her reasons for doing it; and she was a little surprised to find that her young friend had been working her way to precisely the sanme objective point. Two moles had been burrowing very busily underground until their noses met, and then they stared in one another's faces with unmitigated as- tonishment.   TH   INFERIOR SEX.      283 Emily was not to be evaded or put off. Her feelings were wlrought up to a high pitch about something which she forbore to disclose, eAven to her dearest friend; and Mrs. Armington saw that, in her fiame of mind, trifling would not do. So she frankly proposed that the voyage of discovery should be made in com- pany.              s v .        - ,   284  - MRS. ARM2NGTON'S WARD, OR CHAPTER XXVIII . MRS. ARMNGTON   AND EMLY GO HUNTING. HERE another difficulty arose. They neither of them wanted the preseince of MAr. CIarles Armington upoIl this occasion. Still, as there was no one but that in- teresting young gentlemnan competent to point out tile way,- le at once became, as men often do, when wo- men are particularly desirous of taking sonme indepen- dent action, a disagreeable necessity. Neither- of thle ladies, in the inmost recesses of her own heart, de- sired him to know what was the purpose or object of the joulrney. Affairs kept glowing more and more complicated. Mrs. Arnlington w as bent on keeping her secret, whatever it was, from Ernily. Enlily was bent on keepingl her secret, if she had one, from 1Mrs. Arlington. Both were also intending to be very pro- found towards Mr. Charles; and both, tlerefobre, were called upon to furlnish him with a pla usible excuse for what they w'ere about to do.  This, each felt, could not be safely done without comparing notes, lest that astute young lawyer mnight catch tlemn cross- ing one another's tracks; and if they undertook to conlpare notes, they were afraid of being caught by one another. "O, what a tangled web we weave, When first we practise to deceive!"   THE INFERIOR SEX.       - 285 Quotlh Mrs. Armington, "Em, we shall have to ask Charlie to go; and what reason shall we give him for our journey?" 4"I can tell him that you want to go, and I am just going along for company," "Yes, my dear, that is a very comfortable way of saddling the responsibility on me; but what am I to say?" "Say? Why, just tell him the truth. That is al- ways the best way." Emily enjoyed the good lady's predicament. She was satisfied, that if Charlie did get the truth, it would hardly stop with him, provided she was interested to get it also; of which fact Mrs. Armington herself was likewise well aware. As the gentleman they were dis- cussingv happened to enter the house at the moment, Emily thought it was as good a time now as ever to bring matters to a focus; so she called him. "Charlie, your mother wants to take you and'me into the country on a pleasure trip. Will you go?" "Of course, mother. Go to the moon, if you wish it. When do you start? Where are you going? How- long will you be gone?" "Not so fast, my son," she replied. "I have a cu- riosity to visit the place in the country where old Mr. Cummings lived, and you must go as an escort." "It is not a very agreeable jaunt, mother, though nothing would give me greater pleasure-in such com- pany," waving his hand gracefully. "But what takes you there?" "Emily will tell you that."  I-e therefore turned to her for his information;dland she, finding herself becoming involved, concluded to   286   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR put a bold face on the matter, and answered that she simply wanted to see an old friend, who was said to be living in that neighborhood. Mr. Charles laid the forefinger of his right hand alongside of his classic nose, while resting his elbow on his knee, and looked at his mother, then at Miss Em- ily, but indulged in no observation. Whereupon the young lady giggled, and the elder one could not her- self effectually suppress a smile. 6'Ladies, you are very mysterious, and I suppose it is important that the old friend in question should be interviewed; and no doubt we will find him, her, or it, at the proper time and place. In the mean time, be it understood that I accept the absolute verity of the statement as made. The next thing is, when do we start?' It was thereupon agreed that they should set forth on the- following day. That time arrived, and their preparations being all made, while waiting for the car- riage to take them to the depot, the ladies at least were surprised to see Master Rob sail into the parlor, with his travelling-cap, linen duster, carpet-sack, and an air of determination, as though, if it were really in quest of Sir John Franklin, he was not prepared to fail in his loyalty to hurmanity. In considerable vexation, Miss Emily was the first to exclaim, "Why, Rob, where are you going?" With a bow of assumed humility and genuine impu- dence, he replied," With my fair friends." "But we don't want you, Rob." "Which is just the reason I am going." "No, but really, Rob, we don't want you. We don't want him - do we, Mrs. Armington and Charlie?"    THE INFERRIOR SEX.       287 Chorus of mother and son, "Don't want him!" ,',Really, now, my friends," returned the imperturba- ble, "the unanimity of your disregard would offend a less heroic nature; but in consideration of those ties that have so long existed among us all around, I shall for the present overlook what might be construed into an intimation somewhat pointed in its nature, merely observing that as the moment of our departure has ar- rived- Miss Emily, allow me to hand you to the car- riage." 'As they took their seats, Charles's statement was, "Bob, your cheek would be a good thing to crack nuts on." ' The statement gives no offence whatever, inasmuch as it contains a lurking element of truth; and ,truth I adore."' With occasional badinage, the boys, who were not oppressed with any grave sense of unutterable responsi- bilities, whiled away the time; though their compan- ions, each of whom was revolving in her mind mysteri- ous things, were absorbed in the unexpressed exercise of their own thoughts. They reached the end of their ride by rail. Emily, although usually of an equable frame of mind, was to- day, without doubt, a degree nervous, albeit the disease was one for which ordinarily she had but small amount of patience. She spoke but rarely, and then only in an- swer to some question, which it would have been posi- tive rudeness to pass unnoticed. Rob poked fin in vain, and even Charlie's more respectful attentions were not heeded. At the end of their route was a village, where they procured an open wagon and two horses, and Mr. Ar-   288  IMRS. ARMNGTON'S HWARD, OR Ilnington the elder assuming the post of charioteer, they set forth. The day was a repetition of that upon which Mr. Charles had made his former visit, and they drove slowly along, admiring the beauties of earth and sky. Having accomplished the principal distance, they as- cended a hill, entering a forest of grand old beech trees, amid whose cool retreats children loved to play in the heat of day, listening to the songs of birds, and pick- ing mosses and wild flowers. Beneath this leafy bower, where the arching limbs met overhead so that the sun's rays could scarcely pen- etrate to the earth, they stopped to rest and enjoy the beauty around them. More than any of them was Em- ily enchanted with the scene. She could scarcely ana- lyze the feelings which seemed to overcome and op- press her with an ecstasy of delight. There will now and then come to the waking ear distant notes of music that lull us to rest with their witchlery, while they awaken remembrance of some forgotten strain that once possessed our souls with joy; and the peace of the present hour is ruffled only by the attempt to re- call the melody whose shadow  is reflected but indis- tinctly from, the mirror that discloses the past. An unusual interest- and excitement seemed to take hold of her. She peered about with eagerness. With parted lips, eyes that burned with a feverish light, she leaned out of the carriage, and scrutinized every tree, bush, and shrub, upon which her gaze rested. As they moved slowly on, she turned from side to side, looked before, behind, and no feature of the landscape was un- marked. Emerging from  the beech woods, they entered a   THE INFERIOR SEX.        f289 lane, and Emily, forgetful of those around her, was muttering to herself. Had she been in a trance, her appearance could not have been more unlike her natural self. She had risen in the carriage as they came out of the forest, and was now standing erect, with one hand resting on Mrs. Armington's shoulder, and the other pressing her bosom as though vainly striving to still the tumult of her heart. The wind^ had disengaged her hat, which hung behind her, and her hair, floating loosely upon her shoulders, was in consonance with the general disorder. Her eyes. were wide open, but with a fixed and rigid look; and' her breath short and quick, as she repeated to herself, in broken sentences,-  "There was a white farm-house near a lane on the other side of which was a large barn and corn-crib. There was an orchard- children gathered apples-.- made cider. Farm-house faced north-was a porch- honeysuckles and morning-glories. Well at end of porch--huge sweep for well-bucket -not far-the old-fashioned oven." As the panorama she was so unconsciously, but so faithfully, describing burst upon her in all the com- pleteness of its most minute detail, she fell into Mrs. Armington's arms with a scream as of one in night- mare: - "My dream! My[ dream! Mrs. Armington, my dream!" Mr. Charles Armington was decidedly alarmed at this manifestation. Mrs. Armington was discomposed, to say the least. Emily's state of mind was obvious. Master Rob alone preserved the perfect placidity of his nature. "Case of emotional insanity," he observed; " not vio- 19   290   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR lent in its nature, but rather exaggerated hysteria. Brief rest and a square meal will set her up." "Exaggerated fiddlesticks!" exclaimed his wrathful brother. "Of course, fiddlesticks by all means. That name will do just as well as any other, and fits the case ex- actly. We will take her into the house, and administer the appropriate remedies." They had reached the farm house, and Mr. Charles, out of his extraordinary interest, proposed the sum- moning of a physician, to which his brother at once replied, - "Certainly, Charles! A physician, without doubt; and two of them would be better. Just you run back to town, and knock 'em up. You will get there about to-morrow afternoon; so that you can be here by the next day, and we'll probably cross you on the way home. Now, do, Charles, start; be sure and run all the way. Tell them it's a case of exaggerated fiddle- sticks, which brooks no delay." ]Mr. Charles, however, did not follow his brother's suggestion, and did not go to town to any extent whatever, inasmuch as he sholtly made the discov- ery that Miss Emily was not in instant danger of de- cease. In fact, that lady experienced quite a revival of her constitutional elements upon meeting with the mistress of the farm-house, and discovering in her no other than the venerable mother who had aforetinme landed at her fiont door with the express wagon re. plete with buckets of apple sauce, jars of honey, bottles of pickles,&c., winding up with the live pair of gob- bling turkeys. The old woman was overjoyed at the meeting, and   THE INFERIOR SEX.       291 mutual explanations made known to Mrs. Armington and the boys the incident in the railroad disaster of the young man who had been the victim of AIiss Emily's first serious professional experience. The object of the mission was explained by Mrs. Ar- mington as being in quest of whatever might have been left by the Cummings when they gave up the farm for their new home in the great city. 5Mrs. Morton- that was the name-had known the Cummings slightly, but her son had lived with them since he was a boy; when they went away, every- thing was left in his charge, and he had sent for his mother to come and live With him when the farm 'was placed ini his keeping. He was now down in the woods, and would soon come. They heard his crutch on the porch as she spoke, and when he came in, he recognized Emily at once. "I knew you," he said, "that awful night in the barn, and wanted to tell you so; but I was too weak- to speak, and afterwards thought perhaps I was not my right self, and might have been deceived. Had I been well enough, and known that mother was going to see you when she did, I should have gone too, except that I was certain, that if you were the right one, you would yourself come this way. If you will wait here, I have something to tell your'  He-left theim and the house, and had been gone but a little while, when he returned with a small trunk under his armch Sitting down, he placed this before him, and, directing his discourse to Emily, said,- "I calme to live at this place many years ago,cwith Alexander Cummings. Alexander Cummings, miss, was your grandfather. Your mother; Honore, came   292   MRS. ARAIINGTON'S WARD, OR here when you were a little baby, and staid until you were between three and four years of age. Is was a lad then, but I have often held you in my arms, and played with you when you were able to walk about. I have taken you- out in the orchard many a time to gatfher apples when they were making cider. I used to carry you out in the meadow, and you would toss the hay around, and ride on top of the wagon. You 'are a good- deal changed now from a four-yelr-old child; but when you leaned over me in tile' barn, I saw your mother's face, and first I didn't know but what I was dead, and this was Honore in the other world. But then again, when you began with your knife, I knew that wasn't so, and you were her daugh- ter; for indeed, miss, you are her living image. "When your grandfather went away to the big city, he gives me this box, and says to le,- I surmise lhe didn't think he would come back, for he says to me, 'John, you take this box, and keep it till they come back.' That was meaning you and your mother, miss. 'And, John,' he says, 'be sure and take good care of it, for I'm going away, and don't know what may happen; and if the box was to be lost, they would never find out; and they will come back, John.' Now, miss, I have-kept it careffil. I was afraid to let it stay in the house. So I made a deep hole down in the meadow, and fixed it up with stones, that no one could find it; for I thinks maybe the house might be burned up.  "This is the key, miss; and if you don't find some- thing there to show that you are the granddaughter of Alexander Cummings, then I was never more mistaken in my life." Taking the trunk, she asked- permission to go up P   THE INFERIOR SEX.        293 stairs. When alone, she placed it upon the floor. The key was in her hand. To her it was the key of Fate; and although this was the goal she had so long striven to attain, yet now, when the moment had come which was to answer the secret longings of lber heart, she felt she was not strong enough to face the mystery. But knowing that it must be done sooner or later, she sum- moned resolution, and opened the sealed book, which was to tell the story of her life. There were various packages of papers. Carefully -tied and laid away together were a number of letters with the signature of Armand Strangways. They were written -in French, dated in some obscure village in Picardy, and addressed to Honore Gabrielle Beranger. She was familiar enough with the language to know that they were written by a lover. She did not now stay to read them, but laid them away with pious care. To her they were sacred outpourings of the heart that were to be sacredly kept firom every eye. Who was Armand Strangways? Was Honore' Ga- brielle the daughter so loved, and lost? Emily's poor head became confused; her thoughts were in a whirl, and she sat long, trying to compose and collect herself. With trembling hands, she continued the examina- tion of the contents of the box. There was another bundle of formidable looking papers, and an occasional parchment with imposing seals, and a coronet bearing the name of De Beranger.  These she laid aside, not understanding their import. She also found two likenesses. They were her father and mother. She recognized the pictures, although they had been taken at a period evidently earlier than her remembrance of them. There were also a number of children's trinkets,   294   MRS. ARMNGTONr'S WARD, OR and a little white dress, on which was embroidered, in delicate needlework, the name of Honore Gabrielle Strangways. And this was all that was left. As she looked upon these relics of the lon ango, she felt an awe akin to that of the pilgrim who has made his difficult and- toilsome way to the shrine of his de- votion. These letters, now so faded and yellow - ad they once been dear to her mother's heart?  These articles of childish finely- wele they her own? Were Armand and Honore her dead parents? Arousing from the reverie into which she had fallen, she returned to the room below, carrying the box with her. She found all there, as she lad left them. "John," she saidl, somewhat abruptly, " what is my name?" "Honore Gabrielle Strangways," he replied, promptly. No  one spoke fobr several moments, until Master Rob, with a  voice not all impaired in its stentorian proportions by any contending emnotions, asked,- "Is this community prepared to afford any further revelations that are in their nature absolutely astound- ing?" No attention being paid to this dash of impertinence, Emily proceeded to inform her friends that what they had heard from the man John she believed must be true; that her mother must have been the dalghter of De Beranger, and that the name which they had then for the first time heard was her own. "Here, Chalrlie," shte continued,  , is somtetling whichh looks like law documents, and I  do not understand them," handing him the bundle of papers and parch- ments found in the trunk,   THE INFERIOR SEX.        295 "Emily," said -Mrs. Armington, "your grandfather knew you for the first time the night he died; and it was this he tried so hard to tell. I suspected as much at the time, as you did, also. We were both afraid to own our thoughts, although both had the same belief." "It is even so; and it is sad to think what his last thoughts must have been, when he found himself un- able to communicate what he doubtless feared might otherwise never be discovered." They had sat thus together for some time, when Mr. Charles returned. On receiving the package from Emily's hands, he had retired, and proceeded to exam- ine it. On his re-appearance, he was in that state of excitement that Rob asked what he was flustered about, and whether he had discovered any impossible parents for himself, inasmuch 'as, if any investigations of that kind were going forward, he should like to take a hand himself, being an interested party. But Mr. Charles was too much occupied to listen to nonsense; for he fairly quivered as he proceeded to state that he, had been reading the documents, and found that there were imong them what showed that the De Berangers were of noble family in France.  "And, Em," he ex- claimed, as he swung the papers aloft,-"Em, you are a countess!"  "O, well, Charlie," put in his .brother, thrusting h;s hands deep in his pockets, and his feet out on the floor, "that don't make you a count, you know. Mother," he continued, "I am afraid, that if we don't go home pretty soon, something will tuin up to denionstrate that you are Queen Elizabeth, and I anm the Pope of Rome, and everybody is somebody else; and really I don't feel as though we were safe here at all."   uoo  A. M. AKMNGTON'S WARD, OR It did seem as if society was undergoing a process of disorganization, for even Mrs. Armington wnas not prepared for this last development. Although she had given, as has been said, the title of " noble " to her old French acquaintance, she was, of course, entirely un- conscious of the fact, that in so doing she hadhit the truth; and in discovering that the girl who, as child and womany had been so dear to her was now what she appeared to be, she, too, was lost in wonderment. r    THE INFERIOR SEX.        297 CHAPTER XXIX. FAIRIES, AND MANY WONDERFUL THNGS. THE members of the party whose explorations have been chronicled in the preceding chapter returned with varied emotions. Emily seemed dazed. She had anticipated some startling disclosure of her past life, but whether for good or ill she had been unable to conjecture. The discovery of her mother's parentage had banished from her mind a brood of ominous fore- bodings, and she was dazzled by the sudden transition out of darkness into day. Mrs. Armington was gratified and proud to find such benefits in store for those whom she had come to re- gard almost as children of her own. Charles was excited beyond description; but as Emily showed no desire for conversation, all remained' silent, except,; Rob, a gentleman whose presence of mind -could be taken away only by absence of body,' and whose composure no circumstances ever disturbed. "Barrister," he observed, addressing his brother, "I've been thinking how we should break this little affair to grandmother." "Whose grandmother?" "Well!  Yours, or mine, or mother's, or--most anybody's grandmother!"  IIn fact, it had not at the moment occurred to Charlie- that the old French woman was Emily's grandmother.   298    MRS. ARING TON'S WARD, OR He was not yet accustomed to thinking of her in that relation, and he rejoined, with a shade of perplexity,- "I don't understand you."' Directing his conversation to the young girl at his side, Rob observed, in a tone, such that his brother could 'not hear,     .  "Em, did you ever notice that Charlie's head is par- ticularly dull?" "I can't say that of his brother's tongue," she replied, with somewhat of asperity. "Which does not at all answer my question," he per- sisted. "The idea is this," he continued, laying it down on his fingers as if announcingo a mathematical proposition " the barrister's head - head, you know " -touching his own to indicate specifically the object of interest.- " head is, sometimes, what you might call a little mixed. Not unusual as heads go; but don't you think now, just between friends, that his is a little worse in that regard than most well-regulated heads?" "No, I do -not think anything of the kind;" witil emphasis; " and even if it were so,. I should think you would be the last person to proclainm it ;" more emphasis still. "Nothing, my dear, but my extreme reverence for truth compels me to state what would otherwise be a very unpleasant fact." "That's the way with you men. Whenever you want to say anything disagreeable, you justify your- selves by calling it truth, as though it was particularly virtuous to be hateful." Little bit spiteful in this. "I do not know that the subject of discussion is worth quarrelling about. I am surprised that you show so much temper." *   THE INFERIOR SEX.       299 "I was not aware that I showed any temper." "Probably not, or you would not have done so." "Now, Rob, that is a downright slander. I am not a bit angry." "O, well, it's only natural." "Natural to what? You are certainly a most pro- voking person." , I only thought that as you liked Charlie so much-" "But I don't like Charlie so much. Seems to me it's your head that's in trouble just now." "Excuse me, I thought you did. I thought that was the reason you were taking up for him." "Don't misunderstand. I - that is, I - I like Char- lie very much - because he has been very good to me - or rather to us - Jack and Nance - and you've all been very - kind and - and -  / "And the great panjandrum himself, With the little round button at the top; and they danced till the gun- powder ran out of the heels of their boots. Exactly; that's just the Way it is. I see." She bit her lip with vexation, hardly knowing why she was vexed. She knew Rob was an inveterate tease. Generally she failed to notice his teasing. She sat for a time nonplussed, and not knowing what to say. By replying to his badinage, she kept getting deeper and deeper into - she did not know what-- something that embarrassed her.  Ah, curious institution! Very good authority has staid that it is deceitful above all things, and desper- - ately wicked. The statement has stood so long uncottradicted that, perhaps, it cannot be gainsaid. The way in which it manages to impose upon itself, to   300   MRS. ARJMNGTON'S WARD, OR take itself in, to demonstrate to its inner consciousness that black is white, and that two and two make five, to satisfy itself that existence is serenely placid, when a miniature volcano is the centre of, that existence, shows an amount of deliberate tergiversation that is certainly wicked beyond any ,known point of desper- ation. It soothes itself into a dreamless sleep. -The pulses beat gently on like the smooth, unbroken flow of the stream beneath whose waters the rocks lie too deeply hidden to break the mirror of the glassy sur- face. And if the river should stay its endless course, or the winds should cease ever to blow, perhaps the ripple would never arise upon its bosom. But the stream flows, and will flow, rolling on through all time; and the airs of heaven are houseless, homeless children, forever wandering abroad, and their footprints are left upon the waving flower the rift oak, and raving billow. . It requires but little cause to disturb the calm whose depths seem so profound. The slightest obstacle may shatter the wave, or the faintest whisper of the breeze. The sound of a footfall upon the sleeping ear wakes the current of life frolm its tranquil course, and the instant rush and bound tell the tale to all but the one itMost affects. 'No other footfall, could disturb the serene. Whole generations of men might pass where it is wrapped in self-appointed security, and no sentinel challenge. But one step comes,-and othis presence is the wraith foreboding death to the peace that was so impregnably safe. As the heart deceives itself so continually, and with such desperate wickedness, how does it resent all that would banish self-deception? The insult is personal.   THE INFERIOR SEX.        301 The insult is aggravated. That others should see so clearly, when its own head is'buried in the sand, excites the poor bird's highest reprobation. Said, Mrs. Armington, We must take Jack and Nance to-night, and all go up and see grandmother, and tell our wonderful story." "Just so," observed Rob. "Grandmother; that is what I was talking about. If we can find out whose grandmother she is. I am  satisfied the barrister doesn't know." Charles. "Why, Emily's, of course." Rob. "Of course. And I'lls play grandmother to Jack and Nance. They're young innocents, and prob- ably don't require very much grandmother." So Rob played grandmother, except, that in this capacity, instead of listening, he narrated the history to Nance. She had grown to be quite a girl, though still retaining much of the wondering innocence of childhood, and Rob's story to her was like the Arabian Nights. ', You see, Nance," he began, "you remember the night when we picked you up in that hole?" Yes, Nance remembered it. That eventful epoch in her life was one she was never likely to forget. Naance. "Did you ever see such rats,;Rob?" Rob. "Awful! Such a variety, too." Ncance. "They used to nibble us, sometimes; they were always so dreadful hungry." Rob. "I've no doubt, Nance, if we hadn't taken you away that night, they'd have made an end of you." Ntcce. "Such ill-bred rats they were." Rob. "But, Nance, we won't have rats any more. You see I'm going to tell you something wonderful. A fairy story."   302   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR Nance. "A real fairy story!" clapping her hands. "That will be lovely." Rob. "Real fairy, story; so here goes: Once there was a little girl - "' Ncance. "Now, Rob, that's just the way they always begin the fairy stories, that ain't real; and you said this was to be a real and true one. How do I know there was a little girl once; I never saw her, and there's always so many little girls once, that I don't believe it." -Rob. "O, yes, you must; and, you mustn't inter- rupt me.  You are such a chatterbox there is no getting along with you." Nance. "Well, I'll be just as still as mice. But you mustn't tell any fibs, you know;" shaking her finger at him, as she settled herself down to listen. Rob. "No fibs, whatever. I disdain fibs.-Well, this little girl was very poor. Why, sometimes she hardly had enough to eat." Nance heaved a sigh; she remembered that, too. Rob. "Besides not having enough to eat, she had no father and mother, and she didn't have any home." "Nance. "Just ran about the streets?" Rob. "Just ran about the streets barefooted, and sometimes she had hardly enough clothes on." 2Vance. "Why didn't they take her up and put her in the station?" Rob. "O, you know, she was such a little mite of a thing she couldn't hurt anybody." Nance. "I thought that was the kind the police always took up.  But -why," she added, "didn't she put on some mote clothes? She ought to be ashamed," persisted the little one,   THE INFERIOR SEX.        303 Rob. "Bless your soul! she didn't have any more." Nance. "O!" expressive of the greatest amount of innocent surprise that such a thing could be. The story conti-ntles: "-She had so few clothes, and they were so ragged, you could just see her legs-- ever so plain." Nance. "My!" and Nance covered her face with her hands to shut out the vision of legs. Looking upl again, with an expression of renewed hope that, per- haps, it might not be so bad after all, she added,- "Stockings on? Come up high?" Rob. "Not a sign of a stocking, Nance." "Hope for a season bade the world," &c., as the child buried her face in her hands again. Rob. "And this little girl used to go out begging. Often inthe winter, when there were snow and ice on the ground, she would be out barefoot -  Nance. "No rubbers?" she broke in. -Rob. "No more rubbers than stockings; and she would be out late at night, standing about the street corners, asking people to give her five cents. Some- times it would take her a whole day to get a quarter of a dollar."' Nance. "Why didn't she ask for a quarter at once, and go home early?" Rob. "I guess you never tried it, baby, or you'd know." Nance. "I only thought your mother always gave us everything without asking. But *everybody isn't like your mother - are they, Rob?" Rob. "Not exactly, child. You only see sch once in your life. Buit, really, Nance, you mustn't break in   304    MRS. A RMNGTON'S WARD. so often, or I'll never get through. Let me see. Where was I?" NVance. "The little girl was begging for five cents, and didn't get a quarter." Rob. "Yes, yes, I remember. Well, this little girl livedin this way for years. Her home-all she had -was a miserable den in an old house, so wretched that no person ought to live in it. 'It was damp, and cold, and disagreeable. The rain came through the roof'; there was no glass in the windows, and the wind blew in       -- 2Vance. "Why didn't the fairy queen come, and wave her wand, and tulrn it into a beautifill palace, and the little girl into a princess?"This with impa- tience. Rob. "O, stop, stop, my  dear! the time hasn't come yet." Nance. "Well, I should think it was just the time, when the wind and rain were coming in, and the little girl was starving.  What's the use of fairies if they don't know when to show themselves?"Energetically now. Rob. "Have patience. The fairies did come after a  while, one cold night, and carried the child away." "Splendid!" she cried, with enthusiasm.  "Did they come with a coach and six horses, and two footmen behind, with their hair all powdered, and silver buckles on their knees, and the driver in front with a long queue? and dashed up to the house, and the footman opened the carriage door with a bang, and out steps the loveliest and tiniest creature in blue satin, with a pearl necklace -  Rob. "Nothing of the kind.  There wasn't any   THE INFERIOR SEX.        305 coach and six, nor footmen, nor powdered queues, nor tiny creatures in satin. Nothing of the sort." cance. "Then it isn't a real fairy story," poutingly, "and you said it was." Rob. "Just suppose you wait and see. You haveit heard the half yet. Let the fairies have a chance. These fairies are not like those you read about in your little books, that put on glass slippers and -rode in pumpkin shells to great balls; that's all stuff." Nance. "Don't you try to make me believe that isn't true, Rob, or I'll box your ears; and, besides, I know better. Now go on, and behave yourself like a good boy." -Rob. "So these fairies took the little girl to such a beautiful house, and let her stay there and live; and what do you think they did?" Nance. 1"Washed her and put on long stockings and a frock, so you couldn't see her - I mean there wasn't any holes in it." Rob. "And besides that, they took care -of her for years; and then don't-you think that they found out that her family was very rich, and that she was really a princess." Nance. "Now that's something like, Rob! And did she really have money of her own?" -Rob. "No end of it." Nance. 1"And didn't she give little beggars quarters when they asked for five cents?" Rob. "Always, whenever she got a chance." Ncance. "Capital! Now, who was she, Rob?" Rob. "Maybe I'll take  you to see her some time. But you mustn't be too inquisitive." Nance. "Was she as large as I am?" 20   306   MRS. ARAIINGTON'S TWARD, OR Rob. "About your size, as near as I could judge." I   .  2Nance. "Then you saw her - didn't you?" Rob. "O, yes, I saw her." -Nance. "And she was forlorn and miserable, and very hungry? r. Rob. "Prodigious!" Nance. "And when she was very hungry, did she like chicken, Rob?" Rob. "Wonderful!" Nance. "And jam?  Rob laughed. "I knew it all the time, Rob;" and she threw herself into his lap, and hugged him, and kissed him, and laughed and cried in a varied ecstasy that was quite marvellous. As she sat on his knee and played with his curls, she took up the thread of conversation. Nance. "You mean that you've found out who we are, and that we're rich, and maybe grlat folks. Now we won't have to go away and leave you, and Charlie, and mother Armington - will we?" Rob. "Not if you don't want to; shan't leave any- body." Nance. "That's the nicest part- of the fiairy story; for if we had to go away from you, then I'd wish you never had found out anything." Rob. "And, moreover, Nance, do you know you have a grandmother?"            Nance. "Most little children do - don't they, Rob? But, then, you knowr we never had much of anything like other folks." Rob. "Yes, the old French lady is your grand- moth'er." Nance. "The old blind lady?" in wonderment.            ,          .   THE INFERIOR SEX.        307 SRob. "The old blind lady." ?ance. "Well, that is a fairy story, sure enough." "To-night,' continued Rob, " we're all going up to see her, and tell her all about it." "That we will," she' exclaimed, dancing about the room. "And I'll tell you,' Rob, we'll all go in the car- riage, and John will drive; and, Rob, won't you and Charlie be footmen, and powder your hair, and get up behind-  O, I forgot! She can't see--can she? I never thoughtof that;" and the child checked her gayety and mused in silence. So, as night drew on apace, they went to the dwell- ing of their friend. She was alone in the large house, which had seemed to her forlorn, forsaken since widowhood came upon her. O, the sorrow of the empty house! What hus- band or wife has returned to it, when the other was gone - even a temporary absence - and not felt how complete the desolation was? In the parlor, the books lie upon the table, but the spirit of disorder has swept through the apartment, and its trailing garments dis- arrange all they touch. The gentle presence, whose hand bestowed the household in its proper arlay, is missed within the silent walls. Upon the pictures, and' the marble bust on the pedestal, the dust has already gathered, which she so carefully removed with each morning sun. If you open the piano, the hollow notes resound anid ieverberate through the house with solenll echlloes; not such the music when her fingers touched the keys. You go fi'om room to room, and through the deserted halls, each moment expecting to see her form start from some open door to bring a glad sur- prise, and heart grows cold when only vacancy an,   308   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR, swers to its yearnings. Weird fantasies oppress the brain, and Reason tquares itself before Love, to de- monstrate how absurd and foolish it is, and reason puts it,-that the morrow's dawn mayhap, or the week, at farthest, will bring the missing back. Whereupon Reason is satisfied that Love is extremely absurd, and Love is extremely absurd, but tender, for all that. How completely must a single presence fill the house from turret to foundation when brief absence makes such loneliness! But to the aged French woman, in her double soli- tude of darkness and of death, life seemed but a weary waiting. Mrs. Armington took upon herself the duty of con- veying to the old lady the intelligence of the discov- eries that had been made.  The Madatne listened. intently as the wonderful tale proglessed. 'When it came to-the announcement of her relationship to the three supposed orphans, she was greatly agitated, and said that her life had so long been one of sorrow, that she hardly knew what it was to rejoice. She put out her hands as if to feel for her children. As they came to her, she touched them one by one, gently, as the blind do when they would see with the soul what is forever dark to, the eye. As her fingers wandered over the face of little Nance, and played with the yellow curls that drifted down upon her neck, she repeated the name so beloved -"Honor!"Can the blind see the likeness of the living to the dead? Her heart went back again over the years that were but dust, and recalled a little child that ran about the fields chasing butterflies and gathering ferns and daisies, with her straw hat hanging upon her shoulders, and I   THE INFERIOR SEX.        309 the noonday sun kissing her cheek till it was as red as the peach's'bloom; and now before her there stood the same one-the features were hers, the silken locks -were the same, and the voice that-spoke was that of the lost darling. To the mother's heart they are never dead! "Are you my grandma?"Nance was of an investi- gating turn of mind. "Yes, my child." "Can't you see me?" "It is all dark to the eye, but I do know that you are like the mother." "Couldn't you ever see anything?" "I see not any from when she was nearly grown." "Was my mother a good little girl?" "She was only daughter to us, and the--dearest- child --" "Come, grandma, don't cry. I'll be your little girl;" and she climbed into her lap, put her arms about her, neck, and kissed her; then gazed curiously into her face. The mystery of vision was something she had not yet, mastered. '"Now, grandma, we're coming to stay here, and make believe this is our house; andyou and me will have such nice times! You won't like Em as much as me, 'cause she goes around and cuts people's legs off and gives them nasty stuff. And Jack --well, Jack, you know, he's only a boy, and boys don't do anything but tease." .  As this was personal, Jack took the floor to respond, and said, - "Nance, that's a fib! I never tease you at all." "Well," she retorted, quickly, " you scold, and that's just' as bad."   310   MRS. ARMAIINGTON'S WARD, OR "I only scold when you don't mind your P's and Q's." "Yes; but whenever I do anything, and when I don't do anything, it's always P's and Q's." "Still, Nance, you won't turn me out of the house, and send me clear off- will you?" "O, no, not if you are a good boy; that is, good as ever you can. And, Em, you shall stay too, if you won't cut off our legs, and make us take pills." Emily entered into a solemn agreement to this effect, and was then received into Nancy's brother- hood. The boys, with Emily and Nance, had wandered off, through the large house on a tour of exploration, and Mrs. Arnmington and the old lady were left alone. The blind woman spoke, and she was greatly agi- tated :- "Madame Armington, can you say these be my children-? ' -  The question was a startling one; but Mrs. Arming- ton replied that there could be no doubt of it. "The children are of Honore, for I do knlow when they are here. But can you say, madame, if lHonore was married with the law?" A shudder came over Mrs. Armington at this appall. ing question. That a mother should express such a doubt of her own daughter was too horrible, and it was some moments before she could speak; at last she said, - i "Why do you speak thus, Madame De Beranger?" Her feelings so overpowered her that it was with difficulty jshe could articulate, as she answered, - "We did never know that it was so. Some neigh. \   THE INERIOR SEY. .1 bors say that he deceive her, and she have no paper from the priest when she come back."' They heard the voices of the young peoplereturning to the room where they sat. Mrs. Armington laid her han'd upon the old wonan's shoulder, and spoke, hur riedly : - 'Io had never thought of this, but supposed y ou oknew. It is dreadful too think of! I love- them as I do my own soul, and I know that the good God has not reserved for them"' this terrible blow. Leave it to me, and I will discover the truth." 'With all her equanimity, Mrs. Armington was nearly thrown off her balance by the cruel doubt. At the first a opportunity she consulted Charlie, whose astonishment was even greater than her own. He, examined the papers taken from the box again with increased care. From them it was clear that the De Beranger prop- erty and title devolved upon the Frenchman, whose cause Charhe had so long espoused. 'That the daughter,:  Hotnore Gabrielle, succeeded to his name and posses- sions was witrlout doubt; but neither the likenesses nor the letters signed "Armand" proved that a mar- riage had been solemnized. In vain he searched for some other scrap or paper that might solve the mys- tery, The unwelcome fact stood out, that the impor- tant link in the chain of evidence was wholly wanting; and sadly he communicated to his mother the fatal intelligence.   ,312  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, -OR CHAPTER XX X. MRS. ARMNGTON TELLS EMLY. "Ex, I'm going to Europe." There was no preliminary statement, nothing by way of preface; and had Emily been of that kind of folk, who are apt to be taken off their guard, her surprise would doubtless have been greater than it was. She looked up, and was unable to make any response, but her face sufficiently put the question. "Yes! going to Europe, because there is something there it interests me to know, and I intend to know it. It is something that nearly concerns you, and I shall tell you. You remember your mother, Emily?" Distinctly! Her pale, sad face has always haunted me." "Do you know much about her, my daughter?" "No. I was, I presume, too young when she died."' "' There is a mystery about it, child, that must be unravelled." "About what, Mrs. Armington?" "I know you are strong, Emily, and you must hear. it, and bear it. Your grandmother fears that your .par- ents were never regularly wedded. For myself, I hlave no doubts on the subject at all; but I am going to France, and I intend to find the marriage certificate of your father and mother. I am as certain of its exis- tence as I am of my own. That's why I'm going to Europe."   THE INFERIOR SEX.       313 The young girl had turned to marble as she sat silently looking upon the kind face of her benefac- tress and friend. The lips usually so rosy were ashy now. They tried to move, but it was some time before they faltered forth, I know that my mother was an angel of goodness and purity; the snow was not more white than her soul; and whatever else she may have been, there is not that stain upon our birthl." The shock was so great that Mrs. Armington re- sumed with a tenderness different from her usually abrupt manner: "Come now, Emily, my dear, you must not allow this to disturb you so much. We can make all our arrangements to sail in two weeks. I have already taken state-rooms in the next steamship, and in thirty days we will have sufficient legal proof of the only fact that is now wanting to make your life one of en- tire happiness." For days, then, everything was in a tumult, prepar- ing for the' departure. The effect of this latest dis- closure upon Emily-had been to cause her to avoid her best friends. She shrank from encountering any of them; for although it was only known to Mr. Charles and his mother, she had the thought that the horrid suspicion must have spread everywhere. The night before the day fixed for their departure, she had gone into the garden, to enjoy the cool breath of evening under a starry sky, when she observed Mr. Charles coming, evidently in pursuit of her. She turned and fled up a narrow path, and endeavored to conceal herself in a clump of thick foliage. Her white dress betrayed her, and to her annoyance she found   314   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR herself caught at the moment she least desired. She bit her lip in vexation as she saw him coming. It was in a retired part of the garden, where a clump of Norway firs concealed a rustic seat, which had been Emily's favorite resort. The moon was shining, and fell full upon her face; andc so bright were its bearnms that Mr. Charles could see from her expression that something annoyed her; but to his question, kindly put, she made stout denial. "I am sorry, Emily,". he began, 'that mother is resolute. in refusing to allow me to accompany you abroad. If it was anybody else but her, I would not for a moment think of allowing you two women to go firom one end of the world to the other alone." Emily. "I have no doubt, Charlie, but that we shall get along well. Your mother, you know, is equal to anything."                    * Charles. "-She is certainly a most remarkable per- son." Here occurred an awkward pause. Neither spoke for several seconds. Emily plucked al twig of fir, which she began nervously to pull to pieces, while by way of doing the most ungenteel thing possible, like a boor, Mr. Charlie began to whistle; and as if anything further was necessary to complete the absurdity -of the whole performance, the air selected by the young gen-  tleman, upon which to exercise his musical propensi- ties, was "Charlie is my darling." He was entirely at, a loss to understand why he felt so embarrassed upon this particular occasion-.-, He had never experienced the like with Emily before, but had always treated her with the kindness and freedom of a brother. This could not last forever, and he felt   THE INFERIOR SEX.       315 himself called upon to renew the conversation. He made an effort - a prodigious one. Charles. "You said that mother was a remarkable - that is, I said that mother was equal to a remark - or rather, you know, going all over the world alone- and the difficulties of discovering, in a foreign country, just two women by themselves - Did you ever see a more beautiful moon, Em?" Emily. "It is perfectly lovely!" standing with her back to the luminary in question, and staring point- blank into the opposite quarter of the heavens. Charles. "No! there, Em, right over your left shoulder."i Emily. "O, that's it--is it? Y-e-s." Hiatus number two, seventy-three seconds; during which time Emily was settling in her own mind    - whether that really was the moon, and whether she had ever seen it before, &c.   X Mr. Charles stands to his guns. Clharles. "How long shall you be gone over the water, Emily?" EEmily. "Your mother expects to return within a month, I believe."' Charles. "Well, I hope you'll have a pleasant time, and come back in good health and spirits." Emily. "I think, Charlie, my return may depend upon contingencies.             . Charles. ' Depend upon what?   You just tell mother that. Why! what do you mean?" The young gentleman had emphasized these remarks with a considerable amount of vigor, so much so, that unconsciously she laid her hand upon his shoulder and bade him be quiet. He never flinched, but stood up under it like a man.   816  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR Emily. "Merely this, Charlie. You know the whole story. If your mother finds it, as she believes she will, how happy I shall be! If she fails, I shall not come back here again." She said this in her usual quiet, but determined way, and Charlie knew she meant it. Charles. Dreamily, and with a vacant manner. "That would be shocking." Emily. "No! I should send for the children, and we would hide our sorrow and shame where even your mother's love would fail to find us.' The hand lay upon the shoulder still. It was alto- gether innocent, but the young man moved very gen- tly towards her. Charles. "Do you mean, Emily, you could be willing to go away from us and leave us forever?" This proposition was so astounding in its nature to the barrister, that he felt himself visibly weakening under the influence of its announcement; and seeing the young lady's head droop, he naturally supposed the effect upon her was the same, and thereupon he gently stole his arm about her waist, merely to support her; otherwise he felt that she must have fallen to the ground. The coincidence was most remarkable; but the movement of the young man occasioned the hand upon the shoulder to slip around the neck, and for all the world it looked as though- However, it was somewhat indistinct in the moonlight, obscured as it was by the heavy foliage overhead. Emily. "Charlie, you are too generous in your na- ture towards me. You know the fearful mystery that: hangs over me, and you know - " Charles. "'"Em, I know nothing, and care to know   THE INFERIOR SEX.        817 nothing, but your own self. A fig for your myste- ries." He spoke very earnestly, but very low; so low, in- deed, that it was impossible for any disinterested spec- tator to hear the rest. He stood looking in her clear, pure eye. The interest of the conversation was suich that their heads were very close together, and -the matter has never been satisfactorily explained -but somehow - t "Well! 'fore I'd take a person so much under my size, and hit 'em right in the face like that. And a woman too, into the bargain!"  Thus a sepulchral voice from the rustic seat under the firs, which was Emily's favorite resort. Somebody jumped--two somebodies jumped; and one somebody exclaimed, in great confusion,- Why, Rob! I didn't know you were there!" "Em, positively you couldn't by any possibility have made a more absolutely stupid speech than that, if you had tried a week; that is,: considering all the circumstances. Really H shall lose all my respect for you if you don't do better. Come, rub out and begin again." Whether it was or not, something like a ghost was seen flitting amid the trees, and long before Rob had ended his speech, the young girl had vanished, and the two brothers were left alone. "Floored Rob; but you're a scamp!" "It's all right, Charlie, and I beg your pardon. But I couldn't have lost the joke, or I'd have died. Came out to Em's seat here to take a smoke. Just lighting a cigar, and saw her white dress. Then you came. Saw what was up in a minute. Tried to go away, Charlie, *          -  * . * , .   318   MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR indeed I did, but couldn't. I didn't listen any more than I conld help, btt was absolutely pelishing to see you kiss her. That's all there is of it, old boy. But not to put too fine a point on it, that girl's a trrlmp; and you've done a smarter thing than winning your great lawsuit. Have a weed, and come in the house. I want to tell you a yarn." So they repaired to their quarters, and sat down tQ enjoy that tranquillizer of human existence - the vile cigar. BRob. "Well, Charlie, 'in view of these remarks,' as the ministers say, what are your notions about the great problem of human life?  Charles. ," One of them,4Rob, is, just you keep dark, will you?" ' Rob. "An Ethiopian, Charlie! Hottentot; stack of black cats. Rest your soul in peace. But that isn't what I'm after. D'ye mind, my guide, philosopher and friend,' that one night, say upwards of several years ago, two- young gentlemen of fair exterior, classic proportions, and missionary disposition, picked up three little beggars?" Charles. "Quorum pars magnafui -. part of whom I was which. Next squad, to the front!" 8Rob. "Rough customers, those three--weren't they, Charlie?" CiCharles. "I think you have stated the case." Rob. "Great pity we hadn't chloroformed them that night -isn't it, Charlie?" Charles. "Cruelty to animals, my young friend." Rob. "So; but why not put useless misery out of existence? They were unhappy wretches, nothing in life before them but unmitigated wretchedness."'- Charles. "Did look that way - didn't it, Rob?"   THE INFERIOR SEX.        319 Rob. "Beyond a doubt; that is, if you are not par- tictlar how far you look. What do you take to have been the range of your vision upon that occasion?" Charles. "Say, about the extent of a middle-sized nose!" ' Rob. "I think I shall have- to repeat to Em the conversation we had that night about her and the other two."         , Charles. "Steady, now, Rob. 'No more o' that, Hal, an thou lovest me.'" When they all met next morning, Emily was in -a state of agitation bordering upon confusion, owing probably to the fact that the moment of their depar- ture was at hand. She knew that Rob wouldn't spare her, and she turned red as soon as he spoke to her.  "Did you see the shooting stars last night, Em? They were frisking around lively. I never saw such a brilliant meteoric display. There were two that. I 'watched with great interest for a considerable length 'of time. They were very brilliant heavenly bodies, and circled around, and finally seemed to stand still just there by your pet seat, you know, Em, among the firs. Then after a while they just seemed to explode and disappear. I tried to find some of the pieces." "What's all that nonsense, Rob, that you're talking?" exclaimed Mrs. Armington, from the head of the table..  Teaching Em astronomy, mamma!"   320  MRS. ARMNGTON2   S WARD, OR CHAPTER XXXI. "O'ER THE GLAD WATERS OF THE DARK BLUE SEA." AND Emily carried with her the lesson upon as- tronomy. It occurred to her often and again, when she was upon the great sea, and the waves bounded be- neath her as the horse that knoweth his rider. -There was a tumult when she bade th  ll- good by, and , Rob whispered in hlr ear, that if one brother could, why not the'other? and gave her a parting kiss. Ifn the long journey which followed, she was moody and reserved, keeping herself apart from all except Mrs.  Armington. There was a weight upon her soul, a cloud upon her life, and until these had passed away, she felt no disposition to mingle with others. Their adventures in France were not, perhaps, differ- ent from those of 'the average American. Mrs. Ar- mington could not, and would not, accustom herself either to the ways or language of foreigners. She was of that positive turn of mind that brooked no tam-per- ing with established customs. All her life she had o spoken English, and she could'. not see why other peo- ple Should not speak it, too. Indeed, the good lady was firmly of the opinion that the French tongue was a personal insult to herself, originated for the express purpose of confusing and misleading her. 'Here I go out," she observed to Emily, in stating Of  v         .c   - THE INFERIOR SEX.'      321 her grievances, "and tell a coachman, 'I want a car. riage; come, now!' and he just stands and looks .as, stupid as an owl. Then I say, 'You man with the white hat!' and all he does is to gawk." "But, mother," Emily explained, you know carriage, in French, is voiture." "Well, what do I care for that? That don't make the man any the less stupid." "No, mother; but you shlould ask for a voiture." "But I don't want a 'votoor.' I want a carriage, and 'votoor' doesn't sound anything like it; and what's the use of telling the man one thing, when I want an- v other?" It was in vain to attempt explaining to the good lady these curiosities of literature. She had her-owno views, and adhered to them. Neither would she learn French. It seemed to her that her so doing would be a slur upon her native land, and she would not enter- tain the thought for a moment. Had it not been for Emily, who acted as constant interpreter, it would have been impossible to get along at all. Difficulties of this kind did not for a moment daunt Mrs. Armington. She went to her work at once. She visited the village in Picaidy, the eal ly home of the JDe Berangers.; but her search here was entirely fruit- less. She then directed her, attention to the name of Strangways. The police of Paris, who are ubiquitous, and know everything, gave her a clew, which she fol- lowed up. It led her to a department in the South of, France, whither she went. There the family had been well known many years before, though the last survivor had gone from that region of country.- She found an elderly person, who had known the young e */    -  *  - . t , -       S A               to:   o 322   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, iOR man called Armand, and had seen him married in the church. A search ipstituted in the proper quarter finally resulted in discovering proper and le-gal evi- dence, showing the marriage between Armand Strang- ways and Hlonore Gabrielle De Beranger. The good lady manifested no surprise whatever; but when Emily lad ,approached nearer to an attack of hysteria than she htl ever been known to do, Mrs. Ar- mington rather reproved her with the statement,- "Why, didn't I tell you so?" There remained for them nothing now but to reach home by the speediest possible route, andcit was not many days before they were again upon the broad ocean. The first part of the voyage was unusually rough, and many on board wele overlcomle with that affection which the French call neal de nzer. It seized Mrs. Armington violently, and that lady was thoroughly incensed at being seasick. When this was overl; how- ever, she did not rally, as Emily exDected she would do, but was prostrated for severall days with a low fever, which weakened her so much that, in her own heart, Emily felt considerably alarmed. In the state-room adjoining that of Emily and her companion, one of the occupants was taken ill. The ship's surgeon, who was a btsy, active solt of person, appealed in oattendance; and Emily's quick eye ob- served consternation depicted in his face as soon as she saw him. Of thils she made an item for her own pro- fessional conduct. "PRINCIPLES FOPr PRACTICE. "Physicians should not carry a tell-tale countenance when the news is evil."  \                   . .     i THE INFERIOR SEX.        323 Tlhe fact interested her chiefly because her sick friend was now constantly colnfined to her room; and'if there e was danger nigh, the girl determined to know it, and to stand in th& way, even though there was a lion in the path. As a day orl two passed, the repeated Visits of the surgeon, together with his visible agitation, showed - something more than usual. She further noticed quiet ! consultations amoL:g the officers. The femalegattendants upon the cabins--or saloons, as they are called at seaw. - conferred together, chiefly in corniers, or passed hur- ried whispers; and that undefinable state of things spoken of when anything is said to be "felt in the ail;" settled her course of action. In an out-of-the-way place she discovered three of the stewardesses apparently en- gaged in anxious debate. She came upon them sud- denly:- "What is the matter with the gentleman in the state- room next to mine?" The question was quietly put; but in a firm, decided tone. A brief pause ensued, when the eldest spoke up ;-- ":Measles!" Emily looked at her steadily. The woman steeled herself, putting her arms akimbo. There was a little gleam of defiance in her eye. It betrayed her. Emily knew she lied. She looked. at the other two. One b had bare arms. Above her right elbow was a slight scratch. The quick eye caught it. Like a flash Em- ily stripped up the right sleeves of the other two. Scratch on each. Gauging the calibre of the trio, she lit on " bare arms." This was the weakest ves- sel of the three. Emily seized her hand, pointed to the scratch.   3824  MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR "When were you vaccinated?" "Yesterday." "Who did it?" "The ship's surgeon." "O, you fool!" exclaimed Defiance, with her arms still akimbo. Emily turned, and left them. It did not take her long to find the medical gentle- man. He was walking on deck. She was as bland as a summer's morn. Discoursed of the genial weather and the beautiful seas; in ten minutes the surgeon thought this was some romantic young miss who hard- ly ought to be travelling alone. "By the way," she observed, "the gentleman in the state-room next to mine--I fear he must be seasick. I should like to go in, and see if I could be of any ser- vice. I have some simple remedies--" "  O no, no! Not at all. Nothing the matter with him. Bring him around all right in a day or two." "Yes, I know; but seasickness is such a distressing complaint! And-if you can only relieve a person a few hours sooner, it saves so much misery!" And she moved towards the salbon.  She had such compassion on seasickness! It was such a fearful dis- order! Observing the drift of her inclinations, and appalled at what might be the outcome, the doctor interposed, and staved her footsteps: He began to explain, and his manner betokened the slightest shade of increased interest  . "Fact is - it isn't--ahem! - seasickness, miss. Just some little derangement." "Exactly.  But these little derangements, you know,   THE INFERIOR SEX.        325 doctor, almost always, on the water, result in seasick- ness;" and she moved on. She reached the companion-way, where the doctor planted himself squarely before her, so that further progress was impossible. Her manner was still calm and serenely beautiful. "Please, let me go down, doctor." "Well, I'll tell you now, miss, if you'll just wait a moment. You know there are a good many children on board, and we don't want to alarm their parents. Fact is, the man has the measles."' Still calm and serenely beautiful, and in the tenier- est, sweetest accents, she said, looking him squarely in  the face, "Doctor,. in your practice, is vaccination pre- ventive of measles?" Had a summer cloud opened, and from its bosom of loveliness dropped a thunderbolt right at his feet, he could not have been more astounded. He turned red, then white. He stammered, and endeavored to say something, but she waved her hand at him with the air of a Sultana dismissing a slave, and imperiously told him lto send the captain to her. The professional gentleman walked off with a crest- fallen ail; and proceeded to the captain's office. From the random statements he made, that officer came to the conclusion that there was a Bengal tiger in the ladies' saloon desirous of an interview for the purpose of devouring him without any prelSminary preparation of cooking. Her interview with the stewardesses had created a strong surmise, but she wanted proof positive,which the doctor had now furnished. She therefore went to the saloon, and sat down to ,   326   MRS. ARAIIINGTON'S WARD,' OR await the captain's coming. Further investigation had satisfied that functionary that discretion was the better part of valor, and he had no inclination to meet the Bengal tiger. Therefore she waited, and waited long, and in vain. By this time: it - whatever it was - had leaked out, and all the passengers in the cabins, with but few ex- ceptions, were in a state of excitement bordering on panic. Some locked themselves in their rooms, and staid there. The tables were set, though no one paid any attention to them. Those -who were still able to possess their souls in patience held a council of war, and determined that the patient who was afflicted with the aggravated form of seasickness should be removed to the ship's hospital. The ship's hospital was a commo- dious room fitted up with all the appliances, near the steerage. In the steerage were an unusually large number of passengers. Emily sat at her roomrdoor, and waited long, and waited in vain. She was waiting for the captain. She sat so for hours, manifesting no unusual excitement; but she was there for a purpose, and that purpose she intended to accomnplish. She had despatched repeated messages to the officer. The first reply she had was in the appearance of the chief steward. He was very polite, and held his hat in his hand. He was looking for the teeth and- claws. "What can I do for you, miss?" You are -'  "The chief steward." "Will you send the captain to me?" "The captain is engaged -" She straightened up in her seat a little, and waved   THE INFERIOR SEX..        827 her hand at him, as she had done to the doctor. The effect seemed-to be to wipe him out of existence, for he disappeared as though he had been struck by light- ning. Then next came the first officer. Without time to open his lips, as soon as she saw him, she observed, "I want the captain;" and the man retired, confounded. By this time all those who had not lost their pres- ence of mind had assembled in the saloon, intuitively gathering that the little woman was waging their bat- tle, and all anxious that she could carry her point. Next in order came the chief butler; then the chief baker and candlestick-maker, and chief this, and chief that, and clhief the other. Still she preserved her de- termined equanimity, and finally sent word, by the last officer, that if the captain did not come, she should go after him. That brought him. Large, heavy set,jough sailor, six feet two in his stockings, with legs like the Colossus of Rhodes, and the tread of an elephant. He could have put Emily in the side pocket of his great sou'-wester, and the accommodations would have been ample. The passengers gathered closer, to witness the con- flict between mind and matter. With a rough voice and gruff manner, to frighten her-the first resort of weak intellects, being them- selves more susceptible to fear than- any other emo- tion:- "What d'ye want o' me?" ' "To speak to me as though I were a lady, and you were a gentleman."                * His next attempt was not so rough, and not so gruff.   328   MRS. ARMNGTON'S WARD, OR  "Well, if you want to know about the sick man,   I there is really not much the matter-" "Captain," she broke in, "the stewardesses and sur- geon have already tried deception. I wish you would not begin in the same way, or I shall be compelled to dis-  trust you. You know, and I know, that the man has the small-pox. He is in the next roomn to me, and must be removed to the ship's hospital." It then occurred to the wily captain that she was in a similar panic with the rest, and that he would face her out of the truth by putting her to an ordeal that she dared not encounter. "Small-pox?  O, no! Let us go and look, and you can see for yourself." This with an air of triumph, expecting she would shrink from such a horrid test. To his amazenment, however, she arose, quietly took his hand, and made as if to start to the sick man's room. HHe was at first so dumbfounded at being thus taken uip, that his big legs refised theilr office, and she exerted all her stlength to pull him towards the fatal spot. She tugged and tugged at the giant, he expostulating and protesting, until at last she reached the dool;r, and laid her hand upon the knob, when be burst forth:- "O, miss, stop!  I've never been vaccinated my- self!"  He was not so brave as he was big. She resumed her seat, as she said, "You thought, captain, that it was on my own account that I make  : this demand upon you. I assure you, I have no fears for myself. If the patient is removed to the proper place, I will attend upon him, if necessary But I have  a sick friend with me, who is under my charge, and I I   THE INFERIOR SEX.        329 aln responsible for her health. I fear that the knowl- edge, even, of such danger in such close proximity might have an injurious effect; and, at all. events, it is not right that she should be thus exposed to it-it is not right that allbthe rest should be exposed to it.' "But what can I do, miss? Even if he is taken to the hospital, there is -no certainty but that some of the rest mlight take it." She paused a moment before she spoke again; then, in a clear, calm voice, she said, "You, sir, are the supe- rior officer of this ship. With you, under Heaven, rests the responsibility of the lives of all these passen- gers. You are bound to do everything in your power to prevent the contagion spreading. One means is to remove the cause where the danger-will be lessened. Nothing short of this is your solemn duty. Having done this, you have discharged that duty, and the rest is with God." As she said this, she arose from her seat, with her figure stretched to its full height, raised her arm, and, with her extended finger pointing upward, slowly re- peated the words, "The rest is with God." A thrill ran through the small crowd of interested listeners, and a long breath followed the stillness which, like death, had pervaded the apartment while she was speaking. The captain was staggered; but, as a last resort, he exclaimed in a low voice, and with an intensity of ear- nestness he had not before manifested, "Miss, I dare not do what you ask. The steerage would- mutiny if I did it." She turned to him with a vehemence she had not be- fore displayed, as she said, "Captain Ransom, do you ;                      - -   830   MRS. ARMNG TON'S WARD, OR mean to-say that you have, been placed in charge of a ship which you are unable to command? nd d are you ,thus willing to publish y)our disgrace to the world?" She did not lose her temper -that she never did,-- buther eyes flashed fire, and she stamped one small foot; the captain began to gro*v small by degrees, and visibly less. "Miss," he replied, "I will do as you say, let the con- sequences be what they may." "Do not think, sir," she resumed, "that even to pro- tect myself or friends, I would increase the peril of the steerage passengers; but my request' does not involve that contingency. The hospital-room is isolated, and it is located with express reference to just such cases as this. The steerage is clear forward." The captain retired to fulfil his promise. The rest of the passengers, relieved of their apprehensions in a great measure, gathered around her curiously; and one exclaimed,- "Why, how dared you speak to the captain in that way? A I should have been afraid he would have thrown me overboard."  So far from any disposition of this kind, when the captain went on deck, and narrated the incident to the chief officer, he observed, that when she rose up, and pointed her arm aloft, "Gracious, man, I thought she was sixteen feet high!" Whethef it was good luck, or the fact that the pa-, tient- had, in the hospital, large and well-aired quarters . as compared with the narrow state-room in which he had been confined, or whatever it was, the disease seemed to take a turn for the better; in the end, the case proved a light one, and before the voyage was  .    THE  INFERI6R   SEX.     331 ended, the man had recovered. The infection had not been coftnunicated, the steerage did not mutiny, and the panic ended without disaster. During the last day on shipboard, - when all were preparing to go on slore, packing- bundles, bqxes, trunks, - a knock came at Emily's door, and the cap- tain appeared. Strange anomaly of the human heart! As soon as she saw him, she was actually frightened al- most beyond self-control. After her scene with him in the saloon, she had rather-unconsciously, perhaps- avoided him; so that they had not met squarely, face, to face, until now. Why she should be alarmed, it was impossible for her to say; but she remembered how bold and defiant she had been, that she was a mere passenger, with no rights that sea captains were bound to respect, and she was decidedly overcome with the trembles. Perhaps it was, that with the un- selfish, apprehension on one's own- account, merely, makes them weak, apprehension on account of others makes them strong. The captain had come to make it his particular, pri- vate business to see that Emily and Mrs. Armington were safely landed. The tug approached the great ship. ,Emily heard her name.  Could it be? Yes. There was Charlie. She pointed him out to Mrs. Ar- mington, who was brimful and overflowing with moth- erly affection at the discovery. "Dear boy! Canle all this distance just to see his- mother!" The captain stepped forward to .hand them over the ^side. Emily observed that the sailors had col- lected on the forecastle, and as she left the vessel, a hearty cheer burst forth from their honest throats. f ..   332    MRS. ARMNGTON1'S WARD. She looked to him for an explanation. He took her hand. 'Jack thinks, that but for the brave little woman, we'd all have gone to Davy Jones's locker; and you won't think, miss, that his thanks are any the less earnest and sincere because they come from a rough sailor."    
         
       
   
