
    ----CITATION----
        Reid, Christian, (1846-1920). Ebb-tide, and Other Stories .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC8067
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Ebb-tide, and other stories 
            
               f'

]EBB-TIDE,

O TH E R

S TOR IE S.

BY
CHRISTIAN REID,
"MORTON HOUSE," VALERIE AYWMER," " MAB~EL LEE,77 ETC., ,ETC.

I

14
4,
0
1)
4,
.4
LU)
14,
1)
LU~
1'
Cs
U)
4,
4,

ยง1

"We must take the current when it serves,
Or lose our ventures."

NEW YORK:
D. APPLETON AND COMPANY,
549 .&amp; 551 BROADWAY.
187'2.

I                     /

AND

I


0 NT EKNT S.

E BB-T I DE.

V

ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, lin the year 1872, by
D. APPLETON &amp; CO.,
Ih the Offce of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

4

lx

PART I.
THE TIDE AT ITS FLOOD.
PAGE
I.--" ' HE COMETH NOT, SHE SAID." . '1
1I.--A CHARMING CHATELAINE . ,. 12
III.--MADELON GIVES ADVICE   ,    .17
IV.--UNDER THE STARLIGHT . . 24
V.--ERLES AND ERLES . . . . 30
VI.--SEE, THE CONQUERING HERO COMES !" 36
VII.-STRATAGEMS AND SPOILS    .   . 42
VIII.--THH ENCHANTED LAND - .    .  471
II.-FLODIDE..............583
X.-" LOVE MATH SET OUR DAYS IN MUSIC
TO THE SELF-SAME AIR " . . 58
MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW .

THE STORY OF A SCAR
A DOUBT    ...

PART II.
'THE TIDE EBBS.
1.-DOES TRUTH SOUND BITTER ?
II.--THE TRUTH ELSEWHERE .
III.-" GO TO MARTINIQUE !"  ,
IVe--CHECKED AND CHECKMATED
.V.--AN EMPTY NEST .   .-.
VI.-A NEW CHAMPION ..     .
VII.-DRAMATIO CAPABILITIES .
VIII.-" MON CAMARADE!'     .
IX.---"ONE FACE!"  .   .    .
X.--THE TIDE GOES OUT.   .

.. .                        .    .115
. . . 0 . . . 145
. 0 . . . . , 157

PAGE
.64
69
.'72
,82
.88
,93
98
.102
106


f~BB-TIDE.
PART I.
THE TIDE AT ITS FLOOD.
"There will no man do for your sake, I think,
What I would have done for the least word said;
I had wrung my life dry for your lips to drink,
Broken It up for your daily bread."

CHAPTER I.
"'HE COMET NOT,' 5HH SAID."
TEN o'clock on a glorious May day, with the
freshly-risen sea-breeze sweeping over the
sparkling waters of Charleston harbor; the
bright sun gilding all things with a flood of
golden glory; the white shipping dazzling the
eyes like snow; the wooded shores clothed
in a royal garment of soft purple mist; the
stately city throne like a queen between her
"swiftly-flowing" rivers, while the surf of the
great Atlantic beats like i~$usic at her feet; a
fragrance of roses per~ding the air, and an
abounding sense of glol~y,,~uld vitality in the
buoyant atmospher~at~re has opened all
her choicest stores on this marvellously lovely
day, this 15th of May, 185-; there is not a
tint known to art which she is not wearing,
and many-'~~how many !-for which art has
neither name nor power to reproduce. Out
on the sea there is an opalescent glory, chang.
ing and shifting with every gleam of light that
catches the foam-crested waves as they rise
and chase each other like merry children in
the sunshine! The land seems panting under
its wealth of loveliness, of fragrance, and of
bloom! I~verywhere Is spread earth's match-
less livery of green and gold; every breath of
air is flower-scented; every sound-..-even the

city's distant hum of pleasure az~d trs~fflc-.--is
subordinate to the divine anthem which the
myriad voices of Nature are chanting-the
sweet Invitation which they give to the chil-
dren of mend "Come!" say the waves in
their soft tones of ceaseless, rhythmic musIc.
"Come ~" echo the happy songs.of birds, the
merry chirp of the great, invisible lnsect.world.
"Come!" whisper the breezes softer than those
of Araby the Blest. "Come!" murmurthe trees,
gently swaying their emerald leaves and fling~
lug graceful shadows over the velvet turf-a.
"come and be happy!" And how few answer!
-~--howfew do not go on~their way, be it tofuner.
al or to feast, with blinded eyes and deafened
earA! Yet, to those who love her as ~he should
be loved, is not Nature God'sambassador upon
earth, speaking, in everyquiver of her wondrous
light and shade, "glad tidings of great jay?"
o rare, sweet ma~gna mater I In all this weary,
sin-laden, suffering-steeped world, there is
nothing like to thee;'there Is no joy like thy
joy, no beauty like thy beauty, no glory like
thy glory; thou who art stills fair ~ind yo~m~
and fresh as when thy first dew-drops glittered
in the sunlight of the creation moi'nlng, and
even thy gracious Maker owned that thou ~vert
"good!" And who would see this noble mis-
tress in her most royal mood, who would wor-
ship at her most royal shrine, must seek her
where she loves best to dwell-nnder the deep.

e '


8                           EBB-TIDE.                                                                  "'JIB COMET NOT,' SHE SAID."                 9

blue Southern sky, by the purple Southern wa-
ters, far in the gorgeous depths and dim re-
ceases of the aromatic southern woods! No.
where else does she hold out her arms with
such a tender embrace, nowhere else does she
woo us with such regal charms, nowhere else
does she wear such robes of state as clothe her
amid the glory and beauty of these enchanted
Scenes.
Yet a girl, who stands on the pleasant Bat.
tery, leaning. against the railing, and looking
with wistful eyes far adown the bright bay to
the broad ocean beyond, seems wholly uncon-
scious of all the witchery round her. She has
tilted her hat forward so as to keep the sun
out of her eyes, and there she leans, a mo.
tionless, absorbed figure, heeding the curious
glances of the few loiterers who come and go,
as little as the boundless glory of earth and
sea and sky. A vessel is just crossing the imr
into the harbor; the day is so wonderfully
clear that through
"The purple noon's transparent light"
It is possible to catch a glimpse of the spars
and rigging outlined against the sky-no hor-
rible, ugly steamer, belching forth black
smoke, but a graceful sailing-vessel, with slen.
der masts and snow-white canvas, outspread like
an angel's wings. The girl lifts an opera-glass
to her eyes, and gazes eagerly-oh, so eagerly I
-toward the new-coiner, the stranger, perhaps,
the friend it may be. Two or three nurses,
accompanied by children, pass, and, stopping,
gaze also, open-mouthed, ~t the cloud of can-
vas far away. They can find nothing remark-
able about it, however; so, after a time, they
continue their promenade. Other nurses fol-
low, other children scamper past-the Battery
is at all hours the paradise of these two class-
es of the population; then come two ladies
(veiled so as to effectualIy~shut out all possibil-
ity of enjoying the day!); then an old gentle-
man, walking leisurely with his hands behind
hi0 back; then a young gentleman on horse.
back, who looks keenly at the graceful, motion.
less figure with the opera.glass levelled (appar-
ently) at Fort Sumter; then a tall, handsome
girl, who, ascending the steps, walks directly
up to the figure in question and touches its
arm.
"Ermine I" she says, sharply. Then-as
the opera-glass falls, and the girl turns round
-" How can you stand here making a figure
of yourself for the amusement of all the pass-

ers-by? If I were you, I would have more
dignity. Aunt Victorine sent me for you; she
said she thought you would be here."
"What does she want with me?" asked
Ermine, with evident signs of rebellion about
the eyes and lips.
The other shrugged her shoulders-a gest-
ure which betrayed her Gallic nationality at
once.
"How can I tell? .ilfa tante keeps her own
counsel, you may be sure. Perhaps she does
not want you to stand here 'like Patience on
a monument,' for all Charleston to stare at
and talk about. I can't wonder at that, I am
sure!"
"What do I care for being stared at or
talked about?"
"Nothing, of course; but Aunt Victorine
cares a good deal, you see."
"I only came out for a walk" (impatient-
ly). "Why cannot mamma let me alone?"
"Only for a walk!" repeated the other,
mockingly. "And how far have you walked?
I wager my pearl necklace (which is the most
valuable thing I have in the world) that you
have not stirred from the spot since you came
here."
"Well" (a little defiantly), "what then?"
"Oh, nothing then-except that I don't
think your exercise will be likely to benefit you
much. Raymond said last night you were look-
ing quite pale."
"Raymond's opinion is not of the least im-
portance to me."
"Of course not; it is not to be supposed
that anybody's opinion weighed with the for-
lorn Marianna, when
'She said, "I am aweary,
He cometh not," she said;
She said, "I am aweary,
I would that I were dead."'
Only you haven't quite reached that point yet
-have you, ma belle t"
"If you came here to amuse yourself by
laughing at me, Madelon, I think you might
have stayed at home."
"Do you suppose I came of my own accord,
dear? I thought I told you Aunt Victorine sent
me."
"Ask her to send a servant next time,
then," said Ermine, coldly-after which she
turned seaward again, and lifted her glass to
her eyes.
A dark-red flush came over the face of the
girl called Madden.

"I presume she thought she was doing
something equivalent to that in sending me,"
she said, bitterly. "It is kind of you, Ermine,
to remind me of my position."
"I did not intend to remind you of what
you call your position, Madelon," said Ermine,
lowering the glass again with a si'gh.-Ah!
there was no familiar outline about those spars
and sails; it was a stranger and no friends
after all.---" You are so susceptible "(she gave
the word a French meaning and, a French
accent), "that you always think one intends
what has never entered one's head. What is
your position, after allJ I'm Mr. Erie's step-
daughter; you' are his wife's niece: neither of
us has any claim on him apart from mam-
ma."
"Is that all the difference between us?"
asked Madelon, sarcastically. "Thank you,
Ermine, for failing to remind me that you are
an heiress, and I am a dependent."
"But, Madelon-"
"Only it would have been best to acknowl-
edge the fact at once. Of course, it is absurd
to suppose thatit could have been out of your
mind."
"It has never been very much in my
mind," said Ermine, a little wearily,
The other shrugged her shoulders again-
this time with a skeptical smile out of unison
with so young a face-then she, too, looked
out overdhe bright bay, and nothing more was
said for several minutes.
They were first cousins, and considered
very much alike, these two girls, yet the re-
semblance was more in general appearance
than in detail. Both were tall, both slender,
both had the graceful bearing, the waxen com-
plexion, and dark eyes of French creoles; but
there the likeness absolutely ended. Of the
two, Madelon Lautrec had the most regular
features, the most camellia-like skin, the most
magnificent eyes, the most subtle grace of
manner; yet few people gave her the palm of
beauty over her cousin Ermine St. Amand.
What Ermine's special charm was, Heaven
only knows, for Heaven alone had given it to
her; but a charm she had, undoubtedly worth
all the Hellenic noses and Oriental eyes in the
world. A slenderly-fashioned, delicately-fea-
tured creature, she struck you atfirat-very fra-
gile, very dainty, but so full of unspoken coquet-
s-ic, that you knew at once shemusthaveFrench
blood in her veins. A creature with wonder-
ful possibilities of passion and pathos slum-

being in the depths of those dark eyes-eyes
not half so large or bright as Madelon's, but
oh, so tenderly, witchingly soft and quivering
about the fiexile, sensitivee lips. The outline
of her face would never have served formarbie,
but it looked exceedingly well in flesh, and
had that exquisite delicacy of modelling which
we find only in the Southern races, while her
voice had a chord of music in it such as one
does not very often hear-a magic sweetness
that might have been stolen from the sirens,
her admirers said. There was none of this
tender charm about Madelon. With all her
beauty and all her grace, she was too cold, too
proud-often too r9pulsively haughty-to win
popular favor. She curled her scarlet lip
over this fact, and thought in her young cyni.
cism that it was natural enough, since she was
"no heiress like Ermine." But, although the
world is the world, and heiress-ship is always
a first-class recommendation to its favor, other
things weigh also in the balance of its verdict.
Some natures win their own way, let Fortune
do her best or worst-and Ermine's was one
of these. In a palace or a hovel, she would
still have been one of those favored children
of partial Nature-
"One handful of whose buoyant chaff
Exceeds our hoard of careful grain."
"Well," said Madelon, after a while," what
am I to tell Aunt Victorine-that you prefer
to spend the day 'on a lone rock by the sea,'
or that you are coming home? I must return,
for I promised Margaret to go out shopping
with her, and I know she is waiting for me."
"I will go back also," said Ermine, with
unexpected docility. "There is no good in
staying here; though Ido think mamma might
have left me alone."
"When you grow a little older, you will
find that nobody ever is left alone," said Made.
lon, philosophically. "We are all worried
more or less by our affectionate relatives; and
-Is that Mr. Sexton yonder? I wonderwhat
he is doing here at this hour of the day?
Come !-if we stay five minutes longer, we
shall have to undergo a catechism about Mar.
garret's health and appearance."
"Perhaps he has come to loiter about until
it is late enough for a call," hazar~led Ermine.
"He looks as if he meant something serious-
don't you think so?"
"He looks as if he were loaded to the brim
with a proposal, and ready to ~plode at any
moment," said Madelon. "Grace d .DiesI


"'HE COMET NOT1' SHE SAID."

I

Poor as I am, would I marry a man who came
to offer himself to me in such a coat as that?"
"I fancy Margaret will give him his 'route'
as summarily as you could desire," said Ermine,
laughing.
"His 'route'!" repeated, the other. "Is
that all you know about it? But hush !-here
he comes. Don't be stopped, if you can help
it."
Here he came indeed--a short, stout man,
of florid complexion, large nose (belonging to
the class which partial friends call "Napole-
onic"), blond mustache, and coat which
merited all of Madelon's scorn, inasmuch as,
being too short.waisted, it gave him (why, it is
impossible to say) the appearance of an over-
grown fr~g. Yet he was not an ugly man, by
any means-on the contrary, most people
called Mr. Sexton "fine-looking," which is
rather an ambiguous term at best. A certain
deplorable absence of refl.nementwas his great-
est drawback-his personal appearance being
strongly suggestive of those Teutonic gentle-
men whom we see in any and every beer-gar-
den, drinking fabulous quantities of "lager,"
and eating fabulous numbers of "pretzels."
As far as anybody in America caa know any
thing about his antecedents, however, Mr.
Sexton knew that he had no Dutch blood in
his veins; and when he uncovered his head-
showing thereby a considerable spot "where
the hair wouldn't grow "'-he addressed the
cousins in good English, instead of the German
accent one involuntarily expected.
"Good-morning, young ladies-I am glad
to see you looking so blooming after our dis-
sipation la~t night" (heavy gallantry was Mr.
Sexton's style when he attempted gallantry at
all). "I hope you don't feel very much used
up by it?"
"Dissipation!" repeated Madelon, with an
arch of her scornful brows. "Do you call
that festive occasion last night 'dissipation~'
Mr. Sexton? I should as soon think of calling
strawberry-ice an intoxicating beverage! I
don't feel at all used up, thank you-nothing
short of a three o'clock German ever does use
me up! Perhaps you do not feel so, how-
ever."
"On the contrary, I feel vepr well indeed,"
said Mr. Sexton, coloring a little on top o~ his
head. "I-ah-thought we had a very charm-
ing evening. Mrs. Fontaine's entertainments
are always in excellent style."
"I believe she always has an excellent

supper," said Madelon, "and that is what
gentlemen mostly care about. I did not think
the evening charming at all-I thought it
horridly stupid.-~Didn't you, Ermine? The
music was execrable, and scarcely man worth
looking at!"
"I thought it tolerably pleasant," said
Ermine, feeling her cousin's rudeness, and
striving to atone, yet In reality damning poor
Mrs. Fontaine's entertainment still more effect-
ually by her faint praise. Then-making a
headlong plunge into commonplaces-,.-" I see
the lovely day has tempted you as well as our-
selves to come out and enjoy it, Mr Saxton."
"Ah-yes----it is very pretty," said Mr.
Sexton, looking round and benignly patronizing
the day. "I intended to take a stroll until
the hour for morning calls," he went on.
"Then I hoped for the pleasure of inquiring
how you ladies were. That I see is unneces-
sary; but Mrs. ErIe and Miss Erie-"
"Are both quite well, thanks," interrupted
Madelon, tapping her foot with ill-restrained
impatience to be gone. "Ermine, we had bet-
ter not detain Mr. Sexton any longer."
"Detain me!" said Mr Saxton, gallantly.
"So far from that, if you are going home and
will allow me-"
"No, thanks," cried Madelon, hastily;
"we are not going home-that is, not imme-
diately. But no doubt you will find Aunt
Victorine and Margaret in, it' you care to in-
quire whether or not they are 'used up.'-Er-
mine, we shall be late, I am afraid.-Good-
morning, Mr. Sexton."
Hasty bows on both sides. Mr. Sexton
continues his stroll with a faint sensation of
having been snubbed, and a decided impres-
sion that "that Miss Lautrec" is a very dis-
agreeable young person. Ermine is hurried
off down the first flight of steps, and then says,
indignantly:
"Madden, I am ashamed of you! Why'
did you treat the poor man so rudely? It is
not his fault that-that-"
"That he is hateful and tiresome and con-
ceited?" said Madden. "No, I suppose not;
but it is Margaret's business to bear him, not
mine-and I certainly don't mean to do volun-
teer work. Jusle Ciel! how heavy on hand
she will find him for the rest of her natural
life!"
"She will neu'er marry him," said Ermine.
"I would risk any thing on that"
"Indeed!" returned Madelon, saceringly.

11~

"Then I don't mind laying a wager with you.
Precious as my necklace is to me, I will put it
up against any thing you please, that Mar-
garet is engaged to Mr. Sexton within-well, I
will give myself a wide margin, and say three
days. She may hold out a little while against
the powers that be, but her contumacy won't
be of long duration."
"I don't believe it!" said Ermine, deter-
minedly. "You foget-Raymond!"
"Raymond!" repeated the other, in aston-
ishment. She turned, looked at her compan-
ion, and then burst into a, laugh. "I beg
your pardon, my dear, but indeed you ought
to be put under a glass case and labelled 'In-
genui.' If itwere not yourself, I should think
you were a most consummate hypocrite, but as
it is - why, have you no eyes, no ears, no
quickness of perception? Don't you see that
Raymond is sick and tired of Margaret, and
that he is straining every nerve to get her mar-
ried and out of his way?"
"Out of his way! how is she in his
way?"
"Ermine, don't try my credulity too far,"
said Madelon, with her cynical smile - the
smile which had come from overmuch study
of ]3alzac and George Sand, coupled with a
natural ability to catch the undercurrent of
life-" you are a woman, not .a child. You
must see and linow that Raymond means to
marry you."
Surge went a tide of carnation over Er-
mine's clear, white skin-flash came a gleam
of something like fire into her soft, dark
eyes.
"I am a woman," she said; "not a child
to be bartered away, or given away, Madelon.
Raymond is not such a fool as to 'mean' to
marry a woman who would never be induced
to marry him."
"I am not much of a phrenologist," said
Madelon, carelessly, "but it seems to me that
I have only to look at Raymond's 'head or face,
or whatever it is that kind of people profess
to judge by, to see that he never made a plan
yet-and gave it up."
"Then he had better not make any plan
with regard to me," saidErmine, with decisive
hauteu,-.
Mademoiselle Lautrec shrugged her shapely
shoulders once more.
"I sometimes think Raymond has taken
for his own the motto of Philip of Spain-
'Time and I against any 'two,'" she said.

9

10

EBB--TIDE.

"He will be a great man some of these dayw
-if he doesn't overreach himself or die be-
forehand. Those are the two lions in the paths.
of most clever men. If I were in your place,
Ermine, I think I should take him. There are
possibilities of something more than ordinary
in him; and that is more than can be said of
the majority of men."
"Then why don't you take him yourself? "
said Ermine, magnanimously.
"I! "-lifting the white eyelids from her
magnificent eyes. "What are you thinking of?
It is very rn-bred to make personal application.
of one's remarks. I am Madelon Lautrec,,
with my face for ~ny fortune; and unfortu..
lately that species of capital is not recognized
on 'Change. You are Mademoiselle St. Amand,,
the West-Indian heiress, with-
'A very fine fortune-when told In centlines "'-
interrupted Ermine, smiling. "Ne'eer mind,
Madelon-little or great, in a few months I
shall be the legal possessor of it. I can go
and live with my dear guardian, in my dear
Martinique!"
"An entrancing prospect, truly! " said
Madelon, dryly. "I wonder how long your en-
thusiasm for your dear Martinique will last.
after you get there? Here we are, however-
and now I must tell Aunt 'Vietorine about Mr.
Sexton, so that she can keep Margaret at.
home."
"Tell Margaret," suggested Ermine," and
see what she will do."
"Margaret has more sense than you give.
her credit for," said Madelon, coolly. "If I did
tell her, I think she would-stay."
They had by this time reached one of the
prettiest and most attractive of those charming
Battery villas-for villas they certainly are in
appearance, whether defined thus or not-.
which are the admiration of every stranger
visiting Charleston. The lives of those who
inhabit them must certainly have fallen in.
pleasant places, we think, as we sit and gaze
at them from the flickering shade that falls
athwart some tempting bench. But, after ally,
is it not rather deceptive work, this judging the.
lives of people by the outside of' their habita-
tions? Few dwellings could have looked more.
airy, mOre elegant, more redolent of all things
essential to happiness, than the stately house
of many galleries, balconies, and bay-windows,
before which the cousins paused; and yet--
but it is scarcely worth while to tell a story by

'~t'


12

A -CHARMING

EBB-TIDE.

insinuation or anticipation. Let us in, and
see for ourselves.
--4--
CHAPTER II.
A CILLRMING CILtTELAINE.
MADELON walked directly into the house,
but Ermine paused a minute before entering,
and gazed back wistfully at the shining waters
from the side of which she had come. The
windows of the house di&amp; not overlook the
harbor, but fronted instead on that lovely
Battery square which was now wearing its
brightest livery of emerald-green, the shell
road gleaming white through intervening ~er-
dure, the blue waters of the Ashley beyond,
and the wooded shores of James Island robed
in tender, mist-like haze. It was a day of se-
rene and heavenly calm-a day of golden
splendor, "astray from paradise "-a day on
which it seemed as if happiness must descend
from that distant sapphire sky, like God's own
angel, sent to bless all eager, yearning human
hearts.
"If he would only come, it would all be
so perfect l"the girl said half aloud.
And by" all" she did not mean any human
influences, but only this fair, bright Nature,
who wore her royal beauty like a smiling
bride-Nature, whose joyous bidding s/ic felt in
every fibre, hut whom she could not heed, with
whom she could not rejoice, while her perverse,
longing heart flew like a bird far away over the
waters. Something-a shade, as it were-came
to her face, as she turned and followed Made-
ion across a frescoed, marble-paved hall into a
sitting-room which was simply a model of what
a sitting-room should be-not very sumptuous,
but luxurious and charming in the extreme.
At one end a bay-window overlooked the
street; just opposite the door two large French
windows opened on a' gallery, which, in turn,
"gave" 6n a flower-garden. The fragrance of
roses and jasmine came in through the 'open
w and filled the bowery room
Like sweet thoughts in a dream,"
while the garden itself seemed a wilderness of
bloom, a paradise of roses, clustering, hanging,
twining everywhere, of graceful arches and
trellises draped with vines, of trees with deep-
green, glossy leaves, and white flowering
shrubs. In furniture the apartment was some-

what nondescript. There was a piano in one
corner, a carved bookcase in another, a broad,
low, easy couch in a third, lounging-chairs in-
numerable, pictures, brackets, vases full of cut
flowers, and a centre-table covered with books,
work, periodicals, and newspapers. Across the
hail was a suite of apartments said to be the
most perfect in Charleston-rooms full of
white statues, rare pictures, and gleaming mir-
rors; but all kabitu~s of the house preferred
this pretty boudoir with-its charming mixture
of comfort and refinement, and regarded it as
a special compliment to be admitted here. One
thing about the room struck the most inatten-
tive observer in marked degree: it was impos-
sible to enter it without perceiving at a glance
that it was accustomed to enshrine the pres-
ence of some woman more than ordinarily
gifted with the refinement and grace which,
above all else, make a woman lovely in the
sight of man.
And such a woman was standing in one of
the French windows, giving some directions to
the gardener about the training of a vine, when
Madelon entered. A very fine and gracious
lady. That was your first impression of Mrs.
Erie, and, if you saw her twenty times a day,
you were never tempted to alter that opinion.
Whether or not she were beautiful, you did not
pause to inquire; who ever does, when that
nameless charm of manner, that unconscious
magnetism of glance, which only a few rare
women possess, is brought to bear on the
startled yet acquiescent senses? But, if once
forced to cold-blooded scrutiny, you found that
Mrs. Erie stood the test of criticism as well as
she stood the test of every thing else. Not
strictly beautiful, perhaps-.--how few are I-but
handsome, distinguished, and most unexcep-
tionably thorough-bred in appearance-a wom-
an who looked as if only the bluest of "blue
blood" could possibly flow in her delicate
azure veins. To describe her in detail would
be impossible-for she was prei~minently a
woman who lost by being "picked to pieces"
-but, taken as a whole, she was thoroughly
harmonious, thoroughly graceful, and thor-
oughly fascinating to women as well as men.~
She finished her directions before she
looked round-giving them in a clear, pure
voice, full of that indescribable modulation of
refinement which is the despair of those who
do' not catch it in early childhood-then
turned and advanced into the room as Made.
ion was saying-

"I wish I was as sure of a great many
things 'I should like to know as that he wrn
ring the door-bell the moment the clock strikes
the last stroke of twelve."
"He will not find me at home, then," re-
sponded a petulant voice from the cushions of
the couch, where an amber-haired, white-robed
divinity reclined, in an attif'ude that might
have served for the "Persia~ girl" whom Mr.
Tennyson saw in his excursion up the Tigris,
to "Bagdad's shrines of fretted gold."
This was "the beautiful Miss Erie "-a
radiant bird-of-paradise, over whom men raved,
and of whom women steered clear, conscious
that her brilliant fairness simply "killed" all
lesser charms. Even stately, handsome Made-
ion looked almost plain beside her, perfect as
she was in every outline of feature, and daz-
zling in all the bewildering tints that make
blond beauty so captivating to the eye.
plc had likened Margaret Erie to every goddess
of antiquity and every poetical saint in the
calendar, until Margaret, well aware of this
fact, esteemed it a point of conscience to pose
accordingly. It was incumbent upon her
never to be out of drawing, as artists say, to
be always ready as an inspiration for a poet,
or a study for a painter; so, from sheer force
of habit, she sank into a graceful attitude if
nobody more important than a canary was by;
and even arranged herself with due regard to
picturesque effect when she retired to her
chamber to sleep. If Miss Erie's undeniable
beauty was, in consequence, a little spoiled by
self-consciousness, it was scarcely wonderful.
A young lady cannot conveniently be "Idalian
Aphrodite," Calypso, Hebe, St. Cecilia, all the
Graces, the whole family of the Muses, and
herself~ into the bargain. Somebody must
necessarily suffer in the matter; and that
somebody is generally herself. At present
Miss Erie was enthroned like an odaliek,
amid cushions, the soft-blue tint of which en-
hanced the transparent fairness of her com-
plexion, showed to advantage the pure, paly-
gold of her hair, and made an efl'eetive back-
ground for her clear Greek profile-a fair,
languid enchantress, whose manifest delight it
was to ensnare men's souls in, the meshes of
her glittering tresses, and drown them in the
depths of her violet eyes-but an enchantress
most potent when she was silent, least likely
to c~aarm when she spoke. After all, Nature
is less capricious in the distribution of her
gifts than we are sometimes tempted to ima-

CHATELAINE.                           13
gine. The most fascinating women are not gen-
erally the most beautiful, and rarely indeed are
the most bea~tWul the most fi~scinating It is
not so much a heart as a - d that dolls gen.
emily lack, not so m~e power to attract
as the power to reta~$; for, regular features
and "sun-kissed" hair are pretty enough in
the abstract, but not always charming in the
concrete.
"Who will not find you at home?" asked
Mrs. Brie, turning round. Then, as Margaret
kept silence, "Of whom are you speaking,
Madelon ?"
"Of Mr. Sexton," answered Madelon.
"We met him on tjie Battery, and I was just
telling Margaret teat he means to call, and
'hopes to find Miss Erie at home.'"
will be disappointed, then," said Miss
must go out to do some shopping. I
thought you were never coming, MadelonY
"Your admirer detained me, my dear,"
said Madelon. "Perhaps you bad better think
twice about going out, for he has plainly
screwed his courage to the sticking-point, and
means to take advantage of it before it oozes
out at his fingers, like that of Bob Acres. I
would not for the world hurt your feelings,
but his appearance strongly reminded me of
that charming old ballad about
'Afrog he would a wooing go,
Ileigh-ho, says Rowley!
Whether his mother would let him or no,
Heigh-ho, says Rowley!'
"What was the fate of the frog, by-the-by?
I don't remember."
"Pretty much what will be the fate of Mr.
Sexton, if he chooses to make a fool of him-
self, I presume," retorted Margaret, irefully;
"for it is provoking to have one's admirers de.
predated, even if one does not mean to marry
them."
"Madelon, flippancy is a very undesirable
accomplishment for a young lady," said- Mrs.
Erie's clear voice, a little coldly. "Mr. Sax-
ton is a very pleasant gentleman, and if he han
said that he means to call, I hope, my dear"
(this to Margaret), "that you will defer your
shopping, and be at home to receive him."
A dark cloud of sullen obstinacy came over
the lovely blond face, as we may see it come
over many faces of just that "angelic" type.
Perhaps it is this fact which makes one secret..
ly incredulous concerning the prevailing fair.-
ness of the celestial hosts. At all events, let
us hope that, when we get to heaven, we shall


14                        EBB-TIDE.                                                         A CHARMING CIL&amp;TELAINE.               15

see some faces as dark, and bright, and frank,
as we have seen on earth, and we can ask no
more, either for them or for ourselves.
"I believe I should prefer to do my shop-
ping, thank you, mamma," said Miss Erie, un.
gratefully. "If you think Mr. Sexton so
pleasant, you know you can receive him your-
self."
"I shall certainly receive him myself,"
answered Mrs. Erie, quietly. "You know me
well enough to be sure that I am never guilty
of any thing so improper, or in such atrocious
style, as to allow you to receive alone a man
who has never declared himself. Indeed, I'
'shall make it a point that Madelon and Ermine
'see him also."
"I think, ma tante, you can afford to let
me 9ff duty," said Madelon, with her mocking
smile. "Mr. Sexton and I have already
exchanged compliments, and I told him-a
shocking story, by-the-way-that I was not
coming home. He will not expect to be glad.
dened by my presence, I assure you."
"Ermine, then. But where is she? Did
you not request her to come home?"
"Mere I am, mamma," said Ermine, en-
tering at the moment. Do you want me?"
"Yes, I want you-or, rather, I don't
want you to stand on the Battery and tan your
complexion, or take a sunstroke," said Mrs.
Eric. "Your face is quite flushed now-you,
who never have a color I Ermine, this must
really stop."
"What must really stop, mamma?" asked
Ermine, sitting down with a sigh. "It is de-
lightful out on the Battery; such a fresh
breeze blowing that it is much cooler than in
here; and as my for taking a sunstroke, I am
about as likely to take the plague. I was only
looking for-for Alan's ship."
"So I supposed, and therefore I sent for
you. You know my wishes on that subject,
Ermine; andt yet you openly and perversely
disregard them. What am Ito think of such
conduct?"
"Indeed, I don't know, mamma," said Er-
mine; and the words, which might have been
impertinent, were in truth only weary. Evi-
dently much had been said on the subject-so
much that, to one at least, it had become en-
tirely exhausted and entirely distasteful.
The stately, gracious lady flushed, and
~gave her daughter a glance in which it might
have proved hard to tell whether impatience
.or contempt was most strikingly apparent.

"Perhaps you are not aware that your
habits are already the subject of much re-
mark," she said. "You forget that you are
well known, and that it is impossible to stand
on tha Battery with an opera.glass at your
eyes for several hours every day without at-
tracting attention. Only last night Mrs. Law-
son had the impertinence to ask me if you
were not engaged to that disrep-that unfor-
tunate young man who is the captain of a
trading-vessel."
"Somebody asked me thc same thing,"
cried Margaret. "I-I never was more angry
in my life! I think Ermine might remember
that she compromises all the rest of the family
by her conduct."
"She compromises herself much more se-
riously than any one else," said Mrs. Erie's
quiet, incisive voice. "Such a damaging re-
port once circulated is never forgotten; and
there is no telling how ch it may affect a
girl's establishment in ii ."
Ermine is mute-suddenly and strangely
mute. A flush, deeper than that which her
mother had remarked a moment before, dyes
her clear, white skin, while the downcast lids
veil effectually the averted eyes. As she sits
by the table, tracing with one dainty boot an
arabesque pattern on a Persian rug under her
feet, she is a picture of obstinate defiance, they
all think.
"There is Alice Stapleton," said Margaret,
who often spoke when it would have been
wiser to keep silence, and whose illustrations
were not always strikingly in point," who ever
forgets that she was about to elope with a
dancing-master when she was at school? Of
course she is very nice now, but I don't be-
lieve anybody worth speaking of will ever
marry her."
"And do you call Alice Stapleton's dis-
graceful affair a parallel to my affection for
Alan-Alan, whom I love better than any-
body in the world except my dear guar-
dian?" asked Ermine, lifting her eyes all
ablaze with indignation, and fixing them on
the speaker.
"For that matter, I call a dancing-master
infinitely superior to a sea-captain any time,~~
retorted Margaret, whose forte was any thing
in the world but amiability. "Gentlemen are
dancing-masters sometimes-at least one reads
of such things."
"And are gentlemen never sea~captains?~~
demanded Ermine, with ominous calm. "I

shall be very much obliged to you for a defi~
nite answer to that question."
Before Margaret could comply with this
moderate request, Mrs. Erie interposed.
"I am ashamed of you both,~~ she said.
"Is this a mode for two well-bred people to
discuss any subject? Ermine, it is useless to
attempt reasonable argument with you, I per-
ceive; but lam your mother, even if I am not
your guardian, and t request" (a strong accent
here) "that you will refrain from looking for
Alan's ship, where all Charleston can see and
comment on your folly."
"It is folly, no doubt, mamma, for it does
not bring him any sooner-I can stay at
home," Ermine answered, quietly.
This unusual submission took her audience
quite by surprise. Even Madelon looked at
her for a moment somewhat astonished, and a
little suspicious. What did it mean? Usually
she fought d l'outrance over any point where
"Alan" was even distantly concerned; and
now to give up this indulgence was singularly
without precedent, to say the least.
For a fortnight past, her feverish anxiety
concerning his coming had grown day by day,
and at all hours she and her opera-glass had
haunted the Battery, until almost any mother
in Charleston would have esteemed Mrs. Erie
amply justified in decidedly "putting a stop
to it," as Mrs. Erie at last resolved to do. She
had resolved it, however, with sundry misgiv-
ings concerning the probable consequences of
rebellion; and this unconditional surrender
was therefore most unexpectedly gratifying.
"Now, that is sensible-a very rare thing
with you," she said, approvingly. "I cannot
understand this sentimental fancy about Alan.
That seems to be the weakest point of your
character, Ermine. I wonder it never strikes
you what he may think of it."
"What may he think of it?" asked Er-
mine, with level, half-defiant eyes.
Mrs. ErIe returned the gaze quietly, but,
when she spoke, every word dropped with
mercilessly cool decision on the three pairs of
listening ears:
"He may think he has made a conquest of
a foolish girl, who has not sufficient self-re-
spect to conceal her folly."
"Mamma!'~ It was a choking cry of in-
dignation-a cry that absolutely made Mar-
garet start among her downy blue cushions-...
~' mamma, how dare you speak so to me?"
"Ermine, have you lost'your senses, that

you dare ~to speak so to mc 9" asked her
mother, sternly.
Ermine gave a great gasp, shivered from
head to foot, then, locking her hands tightly
together, grew suddenly and rigidly calm.
"I beg your pardon," she said. "When
one is insulted, one does not stop to think
who offered the insult. Perhaps that may ex-
cuse me. But "-her eyes lightened here-
"if you think to estrange me from Alan by
such taunts as this, you are mistaken. I love
him too dearly, I trust him too entirely, to be-
lieve that he would ever do me such injustice
as to think any-any thing like that! .ll~
knows how I love hi~n-he and God-for any
one else, it does not matter. I am used to
misconception - especially from you -for I
have never had any thing else as long as I can
remember."
"And I am used to that charge," said
Mrs. Erie, with dignity. "Fortunately, my own
conscience acquits me of it; and any one, who
has ever known any thing of your rash and
headstrong nature, will acquit me also,"
"Then let me go to my guardian-my dear
guardian," said Ermine, quivering. "He has
some love for me, some patience with me."
"If I allowed you to go to that foolish old
man, I don't know what point your indiscre-
tion would reach," said Mrs. Erie, coldly. "As
it is, your recklessness and insubordination
make the principal trouble of my life."
"I am sorry for it," said Ermine; "but
perhafs-who knows ?-it may not be for
long. I am sure, for your sake, I hope it
may end very soon,~~
She spoke the last words half dreamily;
then took her hat from the table where she
had laid it, and walked out of the room, across
the hail, and up the broad, easy staircase.
There was silence in the bowery-room until
the last echo of her footsteps died away.
Then Mrs. Erie said:
"Nobody who has not suffered in the same
manner could credit the anxiety which Ermine
has been to me from her childhood. She cer-
tainly has the most unfortunately tenacious
nature I have ever known. To think that, af-
ter all these years, she should still cling to
that disagreeable guardian of hers, and this
disreputable nephew of my husband's, who
was once kind to her in a careless, boyish
fashion ~"
"She would undergo torture and death
for either of them," said Madelon, "Isn't it


16                       EBB-TIDE.                                                        MADELON GIVES ADVICE.

remarkable? One would think that dresses,
and admirers, and all that sort of thing, would
not leave her any spare time or spare thought
to waste on such subjects. Do you know,"
pursued the young lady, "I don't think Ermine
is exactly like other people, Aunt Victorine?
She is so very queer-queerer, by far, than
you knpw-that she always seems to me like
one of the people who are said to be marked
out for uncommon uses-tragedy, passion, de-
spair, and all that sort of thing."
"I beg you won't put any such romantic
nonsense into her head," said Mrs. ErIe, coldly.
"Sh4~ly lacks common-sense now."
"Iput romantic nonsense into anybody's
head?" said Madelon. "That would be a
saul among the prophets indeed! But I
think you will find an abundance of it in Er-
mine's brain without any assistance from me."
"She told me yesterday that as soon as
she is of age she means to go to Germany and
study art," said Margaret, in exactly the same
tone she might have employed to announce an
intention to go to the penitentiary and break
stones.
"She is hopelessly absurd," said Mrs.
Erle, with a sigh, "and I really think her
guardian is accountable for a great deal of
it."
"As for her painting," said Madelon, who
seemed rather inclined to take the part of dev-
il's advocate, "I don't see that it does much
harm to any thing except her dresses. I sup-
pose you know that she has ruined her prettyy
blue organdie with paint-stains, by-the-way?"
"11cr affection for her guardian is the
most incomprehensible thing to me," said Mrs.
Erle, whose mind naturally ran on the griev-
ance which was most a grievance to her. "lie
is really the most disa~greeable old man I ever
knew. I often wonder what induced my hus-
band to choose such a person-but the ways
of husbands are incomprehensible. If he meant
to leave me a posthumous annoyance, he could
not have done so more completely; for the
trouble Colonel Vivicux has caused me about
Ermine's fortune and Ermine's self is almost
beyond belief."
"What a charming thing it is, to be sure,
when one has no fortune to necessitate a guar-
dian, and prove a source of trouble to one's
friends!" said Madelon. "For these and all
other mercies, let us thank Providence !-
Come, Margaret-if you mean to lie there all
day, Imust go down-street."

"Margaret is going to stay at home," said
Mrs. ErIe. "I specially request it."
"Indeed, mamma, I am not," said Marga.
ret. "I-I don't care a straw about seeing
Mr. Sexton."
"But you do care about showing your
pretty face on King Street, don't you?" said
Madelon, laughing. "One admirer at home is
certainly not to be compared to fifty abroad."
"Madelon, I wish you would let me alone!"
cried Margaret, wrathfully. "I kave to go
and see the dress-maker about my green silk;
you know I can't trust you to do it"
"Quite right, too, my dear, for I might
order a flounce additional, or a ruffle less,
which would break your heart," said Madelon.
"I shall order the carriage, and drive with
you to see about the dress, after Mr. Sexton's
call," said Mrs. Erie, who knew that, if it came
to the point of the green silk, concession was
absolutely necessary. "That will be better
than walking in the hot sun. We will see,
too, about the point-lace cape you have set
your heart on, but "-as Margaret's turquoise
eyes began to gleam with pleasure-" I must
really insist on your changing that wrapper
for a dress in which you can properly receive
Mr. Sexton."
After a few remonstrances, Margaret yield-
ed with a very bad grace, and retired to ef-
fect the desired change of toilet. Then Mrs.
Erle leaned back and sighed wearily.
"What a happy day it will be to me when
that girl is safely married!" she said. "Noth-
ing short of the point-lace bribe would have
induced her to see this man; and yet-" She
broke off abruptly here. "Madelon, if you
are going down-street, I wish you would take
Louise with you, and get her that pair of blue-
kid gaiters which she is determined to have.
I am tired of hearing her fret for them."
"I saw Nathalle with Louise and Regy on
the Battery," said Madelon. "If I meet them,
I will take la petite with me. .Pauvre tanle,"
added the girl, half compassionately, half
mockingly; "even Louise, at the mature age
of nine, begins to worry you. I really believe
I am the only consolation you have!"
"You certainly give me the least trouble
of any," said Mrs. ErIe, kissing the ripe, scar.
let lips that bent over her.
Yet, after Madelon left the room, and the
hall-door closed on her, the speaker shook her
head.
"The time for it has not come quite yet,"

she said, addressing a royal lily placed in a
taIl, slender vase before her; but I should not
be surprised if the trouble she gave in the end
was the worst trouble of all."
Just then a peal of the door-bell echoed
through the house, and the lady made haste
to smooth her face in readiness for the visitor
whom it heralded. "Show Mr. Sexton in,
John," she said, as a servant entered with a
card, "and 'not at home' to any one else
while he is here."
After all, is it worth while to envy the
charming cladtelaine her beautiful house-
"With its porcelain and pIvhire~, and flower,,"
or would not "a dinner of herbs," where love
abounded, and scheming was unknown, be
rather preferable?
-4--
CHAPTER IlL
HADELON GIVES ADVICE.
THE soft, fragrant May dusk has fallen
over the blooming land and the shining
waters, the divine glory of the western sky
has faded away, and only a faint glow lingers
over the broad rivers, the calm harbor, the
glittering spires of the city, and the great,
distant, placid ocean. The afternoon throng,
which makes the Battery for eight months in
the year one of the most charming pleasure-
resorts in the country, has gradually dispersed
and gone its way, to gather round countless
tin-tables, and discuss all the choice bits of
news, social and political, which "fly about in
the sunshine like gay little motes," at .any
such popular and universal lounging-place-a
place where one can see the whole beau.
monocle on dress-parade, for the mere trouble
of sauntering to and fro in the bright sun-
shine, with the water sending soft tones of
music into one's ear, the fresh sea-breeze
bringing fresh color into one's face, the lovely
panorama of sea and shore spread before
one's eyes-the purple islands, the distant
forts, the broad expanse of sparkling water,
the whole perfect picture, in front of which,
"-as though sprung from the waves she has cleft,
Grim Sumter frowns out o'er the sea."
It was at just that witching hour of the
twenty-four when a mantle of twilight, edged
with the silvery lustre of a new moon and
2

countless glittering stars, falls over the fair
scene, that Madelon Lautrec, parting with one
or two gay companions at the door of her
aunt's house, entered and ran through the
brilliantly-lighted hall straight up-stairs. She
did not pause at the door of her own chamber,
but passed on and knocked at that of Ermine,
which adjoined it.
"Come in," said a clear voice; and, when
the door opened, a rush of light came out on
the dark corridor, disclosing a room like a sea-
cave, all green and white, with long, swinging
mirrors, and a dainty, spotless, canopied bed.
Before one of these mirrors Ermine stood,
putting the finishing touch to her toilet, in
the shape of a lovely, half-blown rose, which
nestled among its rich green leaves against the
glossy plaits of her dark hair.
"You have come for Lena, haven't you?"
she said, turning round with a smile, as her
cousin entered. "You ought to have been
five minutes earlier-Margaret has just sent
to ask for her, and, as I had finished dressing,
I let her go."
"Margaret is unconscionably selfish," said
Madelon, in a pet. "Why cannot she be con-
tent with her own maid? If I had a maid, I
am surel should teach her to do herwork,
and not have to beg the loan of somebody
else's all the time. Au diabte I Don't look so
shocked, my dear; it isn't half as bad as t~
say, 'Go to the devil!' in English-and quite
as gratifying to the feelings. I hope Lena
will do her hair execrably-that would. be
only poetical justice! But, meanwhile, who is
to do mine?"
"For the concert, do you mean?"
"Yes, of course for the concert. Do you
know, by-the-way, that Aunt Victorine has so
far departed from her usual rule, that I am to
be allowed to go with Major Hastings?"
"Madden! Impossible!"
"Afafoi, but it is possible! You can't be
more surprised than I was-for five minutes.
Major Hastings being a new acquaintance, of
course did not know Aunt Victorine's inflexi-
ble chaperon rule, so he asked me this after-
noon if I would not allow him the honor of
escorting me; and, more for amusement than
any thing else, I referred the matter to Ma-
dame ma tante, and she said-yes. For five
minutes, as I remarked before, you could have
knocked me down with a feather."
"And then?"
"Hum! 'Well, then I remembered one or

I

EBB-TIDE.

16


18                        EBB-TIDE.                                                          MADELON GIVES ADVICE.                19

two things, and my surprise abated-very
quickly and very decidedly."
"But what were the little things?" cried
Ermine, impatiently. "Mamma, who is al-
ways so very particular, so very Frenok in her
ideas, who never lets us go with anybody but
Raymond i-what is the meaning of it, Made-
Ion?"
"Set your wits to work and guess, my
dear."
"Is Major Hastings rich, and does she
mean you to make a marine de convenanee,
after the model of-well, no matter who?"
"I have not the faintest idea whether he
is next door to a beggar, or a millionaire;
but ma taste is no vulgar match-maker. If he
were a Roths4hild, she would not break her
rules without better reason for it than that.
Guess again, Ermine."
"I-I can't. Tell me."
"Will you do my hair for me, if I tell
you?"
"Yes," cried Ermine, with reckless im-
patience. "Of course I will-only you must
sit down at once, for it is getting late, and you
know Raymond is always dreadfully impa-
tient."
"Let him learn to wait, then-somebody
says that is Nature's noblest effort, and it is
certainly the on~ that would do Raymond
most good. Here I am, however-all ready,"
She took off her hat, shook out her hair.-
of which she had a magnificent suit, barring
thatit was not remarkably silky in texture-
and sat down in a low chair before the toilet-
table and the large mirror which reflected the
room with its hangings of pale sea-green, and
made a picture of the two girls in all the win-
ning grace of their youth and beauty.
"Now," said Ermine, as she gathered up
the heavy locks in both hands, and began
with deft fingers to 'do the work of the maid
who was just then arranging Miss Erleis
golden tresses, while another maki stood by
and looked admiringly on-"now you' are in
my power-tell me at once, or I shall have no
mercy on you."
"You are horribly stupid to need to be
told," said Madelon, with complimentary Can-
dor. "Don't you see that, as usual, the Al.
pha and Omega of the whole thing is Ray.
mond?"
"I am stupid, I suppose," said Ermine,
humbly; "but I don't see it at all. What
ha~ Raymond to do with Major Hastings?"

"Bah ii' It was the most significant
interjection in the world. "Ermine, I am
as~med of you I Listen, then-and be en-
lig~itened. Don't you know that Margaret is
to be sent to the concert with Mr. Sexton as a
convenient mode of informing the world in
general that the engagement is an accom-
plished fact, and of bringing Margaret to
terms through the medium of public opin-
ion?"
"Yes, I know."
"Then, don't you see-Take care! you
are braiding my hair unevenly. Perhaps I
had better defer this interesting conversation
until you have finished."
"No, no-pray go on. I will be more
carefuL"
"Well, then, as I was remarking, don't
you see that it is of course highly desirable
that such a good opportunity should not be
lost for throwing you and Raymond together?
-Good Heavens! Ermine, don't pull my hair
so dreadfully! My head is not made of India.
-rubber or wood, and I really can't stand it."
"I beg your pardon-I did not mean-
Madden, if I thought you were right, I would
not go to the concert for any consideration."
"Nonsense 1" said Madden, who, seeing
her cousin's excitement, began to be appre.
hensive about the effect on her coi~?'ure.
"Nonsense, Ermine - don't we always go
with Raymond? Nobody is likely to think
of you what they will be certain to think of
Margaret and Mr. Sexton. It is simply that
Aunt Victorine likes to 'give him an oppor-
tunity to glide into the lover, which would b~
rather difficult if I played the agreeable part
of Mademoiselle Do Trop."
"He would not dare," said Ermine, indig-
nantly. "He knows that I know how long
he has been in love with Margaret."
"In love with Margaret!" repeated Made.
lon, scornfully. "My dear, Raymond is in
love with nobody but himself and his own in-
terest. Aunt Victorine would not thank me
for saying so, but it is a fact. Of course, we
all know that Margaret is in love with kim;
but I don't believe he has been any thing but
tired of her this long while."
"Madelon, you see so much you frighten
me! How do you find -all this out?"
"Simply by using the few wits which Na-
tnt-c gave me to atone for her shabby conduct
in other respects. Ermine "-the girl's light
tone suddenly changed into so much of grave

earnestness, that Ermine stopped short and
stood in a tragic-muse attitude, armed and
equipped with an ivory-backed brush-" why
don't you make up your mind to marry Ray.
mond? You will have to do it sooner or
later, and why not at once?"
"Madden, what do you mean?"
"I think it is very evident what I mean,"
said Madelon, pushing back the masses of
hair which overhung her face, and looking up
at her cousin in the mirror, with eyes like
those of a sibyl. "Aunt Victorine and Mr.
Erle have made up their minds that you are
to marry Raymond- Raymond himself has
made up his mind to the same thing; so I
don't see that there is much for you to do but
submit."
"You know me no better than they do,
Madden, if you think so."
"I know you a great deal better, my
dear," said Madelon, quietly, "and that is
the only reason I have taken the trouble to
speak to you. I know that you will make a
death-fight, but I know, also, that in the end
you will be obliged to succumb."
"Why?"
"Shall Itch you why?"
"Yes, tell me-I should like to know
what reason you could possibly have for such
an
"My reason is simply this: I am sure that
the possession of your fortune is a matter of
financial life and death to ,the Eries. It is
their last card; and you can judge for your-
self whether they are likely to allow your
fancy to stand in the way of their playing
it."
"Do you mean that Mr. Erie is threatened
with danger or embarrassment in his busi-
ness?"
"Hush! for Heaven's sake, speak lower!
I mean that I would be willing to stake my
existence that he is on thee brink of absolute
failure. Don't ask mo how I know it. You
could not understand if I were to tell you, for
I have ways and means of information which
would seem to you trifling and unimportant.
Only be sure it is a fact. Ermine, you were
an heiress 'when your father died: ever since
then your fortune has been in the. hands of
the best business man in Martinique, so you
can imagine whether or not it is worth Mr.
Erie's while to hazard a great deal for it
now."
"If I were of age I would give it to him,"

said Ermine, passionately; "but I will never,
never marry Raymond."
"And yet, you absurd child, that is the
only way in wldch you can give it to him.
What would your husband, when you marry,
say to your having quixotically bestowed your
fortune on your step-father? What would
the world say of Mr. Erie if he accepted it?
Where is the hardship of marrying Raymond,
after all?" the girl went on, with her cold,
'trenchant cynicism. "Isn't he handsome ?-
isn't he clever ?-isn't he sure to surround
you with comfort a~d luxury all your life?
M~rn Dien! Think of the men some women
are obliged to marr~y-think of Mr. Sexton,
for example!"
"But why should I think of them? No-
body can oblige me to marry Raymond."
"Nobody can shut you up on bread-and.
water, or use any romantic mode of compul-
sion, I grant you; but other means are some-
times quite as effective. Sooner or later, you
will have to do it. Therefore, why not do it
at once?"
Ermine drew herself up haughtily. Just
then she looked like a young pi-incess.
"You seem to think I am a child, Made-
ion, to be frightened by vague threats," she
said. "I will not have to do it sooner or later.
Nothing shall ever make me marry him. If
mamma requested you to speak to me, you
can tell her that."
"Aunt Victorine has never mentioned
the subject to me," answered Madelon. "I
spoke of my own accord, because I was fool-
ish enough to wish to do you a service. You
have always been kind to me, and, if I have a
soft spot in my heart for anybody-a fact, by-
the-way, which I sometimes doubt-it is for
you, Ermine. However, it is all very useless,
I perceive; and my hair is being sadly neg.
elected. It must be late. I stayed out longer
than I meant to do, but the Battery was
charming this afternoon. What were you
doing with yourself?"
"I was painting," said Ermine, with some.
thing-a soft sort of mystical 'light-in her
eyes. "Colors are like opium to me-I for.
get every thing disagreeable or painful when I
am with them. Sometimes I think I am color-
mad. Every thing in the world-no matter
how purely abstract-has a tint to me. I
never hear a strain of music that it does not
suggest a color or a shade of color. This
afternoon I have been working at my sea:

~it


20                        EBB-TIDE.                                                         MADELON GIVES ADVICE.                21

piece with such energy that it is almost fin-
ished. Madelon, shall I show it to you?"
"It is not much in my line," said Made-
ion; "but still-if it will not inconvenience
you-"
"It is just here," said Ermine.
She laid down the brush, which Madelon
regretfully took up and began using, and
~passed into a small room adjoining her cham-
ber-originally a dressing.room, at present a
studio. From this she reappeared, after a
enoment, bearing a small canvas-in dimen-
aiim not more than twenty-four by eighteen
inches-which she held in her white, out.
stretched arms before Madelon.
The bright lamplight quivered softly on
the clear, transparent tints-tints so exquisite
that only an artist's soul could have felt them
-and, turning, Madden took in at a glance
the design of the picture. The sea-no shore,
no rocks, no suggestion of distant land-but
suck a sea that it was simply a marvel how a
tyro's hand could have painted its divine, per-
fect, eternal, yet ever-changing loveliness I A
great, blue, waveless southern ocean, spread
out in lustrous calm beneath a sky like a
dream of heaven - stretching away, as it
seemed, to iuflnite distance, and melting at
the horizon into the translucent sapphire of
the great vault of ether, until it was impossi-
ble to tell where the water ended or the sky
began. And in all the wide world of space,
one object alone visible-a single, shattered
spar, to which was lashed the slender figure of
.a woman with white, motionless face, upturned
toward that distant, serene heaven whence
comet sometimes hope, and sometimes, again,
despair. The sea had done its work. No
gleam of life would ever again come to those
sculptured features, nor would any living hands
ever lay that fair form away, into the kind
embrace of Mother Earth. What the
possessed, the sea would keep, and the pla6id
water seemed idly toying with the rounded
limbs and floating hair, as if exulting in its
power, and gilding, with a bright, treacherous
smile, the destruction which it had worked.
With all its faults--and faults, of course, were
many-there was a fascination about the pict-
ure which must have arrested any eye, and
held, for a time at least, any attention spell-
bound. A stranger could scarcely have be.
lieved that this beautiful conception was from
the hand of a girl of twenty, whose art-train-
ing had been of that entirely amateur kind

which is bestowed upon young ladies wh&amp;
have a weakness for spoiling canvas and wast-
ing paint. There was none of that weak pret-
tiness which usually damns even the best of
such efforts; the very faults of the piece were
faults of power, and there was a dramatic in-
tensity about the whole scene which proved-
more conclusively even than the wonderful
coloring-the God-given power of the born
artist.
Such as it was, it startled even Madelon
into forgetfulness of her yet undressed hair
and probably waiting escort.
"Ermine," she cried, "it is wonderful 1-it
is beautiful! It is the best thing by far you
ever did! I have no fancy for such work, you
know, but, if it strikes me, it must be worth
something!" Then, after a moment's pause,
"Oh, why. did not God give me such a talent ?~
It might have saved me, perhaps-it might
have made something of me! But you-what
need have you to labor like this?"
"You might as well ask me what need I
have to breathe," said Ermine, placing the
canvas on a chair, and kneeling before it like
a reverential worshipper at a shrine. "I love
it 1-I love it! I ask for nothing, hope for
nothing, desire nothing, when I am at my
paints. 0 Madelon, I would give every thing
in this world-except my guardian and Alan
-to be an artist."
"And can't you be one? You are rich
enough to do any thing you please, I am
sure."
"But I want to give my life to it-to
study, to work, not to be merely an eccentric
young lady who dabbles in oils when she ha~
no engagement to ride, or drive, or walk, or
talk. I want to go to one of those delightful
art-schools, to learn to paint as well as woman
can learn, and then to live in Rome, in some
pleasant studio with plenty of pictures, and
only a crust of bread, perhaps-but I should
eat it with such a light heart."
"Vraimentl how easy it is to be romantic
when one is rich!" said Madden, in a tone of
overwhelming scorn.
Yet it was a subject more fit for sadnesn
than for ecorn-tha fair young creature, en-
dowed with. all earth's brightest gifts, longing
to shake them off and give heart and soul to
the service of that divine Beauty which is
known to us through Art. Ah me! is it not
ever so? Was any existence ever so bright.
that discontent had no place in it? Was any-

human soul ever without these strange long-
ings for another life than that which God has
given? Was any heart ever so happy that it
has not beat against its cage, yearning for bet-
ter wings and wider flight? Was any glance
ever so sunny' that it did not turn from the
brightness around it, to gaze wistfully toward
some distant spot of happier light? Even if
such natures were, who could envy them? Is
it' not better to dash hopelessly against the
bars, than to sink down on the floor of some
dreary prison and believe that its walls bound
the world?
"But my hair," said Madelon, coming back
to present reality. "Are you, or are you not,
going to finish it, Ermine?"
"Of course I am," said Ermine, rising to
her feet.
But at this moment apleasant.faced, bright-
eyed maid entered the room, whom Madelon
greeted with enthusiasm.
"Thanks to kind Fate, here comes Lena!"
she said. "Now, perhaps, I may hope to go
to the concert to-night. Ermine, pray don't
let me detain you any longer.-lIas Margaret
gone down, Lena?"
"Just this minute, Miss Madelon?'
"I suppose she looks as pretty as ever?"
"Oh, yes'm, she looks very pretty, but"
(a slight, insignificant hesitation here) "she
was mighty hard to suit to-night. I'd have
been here before, Miss Madelon, but for that."
"Hum!" said Madelon, grimly, "I can
imagine it. Being an angel to one's lover and
an angel to one's maid are quite different
things. Come, though, Lena, and make up
for lost time now."
The maid fell skilfully to work on the rich
masses of hair, and-after tenderly conveying
her painting back to its easel-Ermine left the
room. As she descended the staircase, a
latch-key rattled in the front-door, and, as her
foot was on the last step, a gentleman entered
the hall, whom she met under the chandelier,
and with whom she exchanged a greeting.
"Why, good-evening, papa! I thought I
was late, but it seems I must be early, since
you have just come in."
"Good-evening, petite," said "papa," with
a smile. "Yen are right in your thoughts.
It is late-that is, late for me. What are yen
looking so radiant about? Another party to-
night?"
"Oh, no-the concert Is it possible you
have forgotten the concert?"

"Indeed, I an~ sorry to say it is possible,"
answered he, with a smile.
When he smiled, Mr. Erie positively did
not look more than twenty-five; and, whether
ile smiled, or whether his face was as grave as
it could occasionally appear, he was in either
ease a remarkably handsome man-a man
whose good looks were of that delicate blond
order which preserves the appearance of youth
longer than any other. As he stood for a mo-
ment, speaking to his step-daughter, with the
light of the chandelier streaming over his
chiselled features, his clear cornplexioh, his
rich, fair curls, and violet eyes, he looked as
if he might have riyalled the lovely Margaret
herself, if Nature had only given him the right
to wear soft green silk and delicate point-
lace. It was only on scanning the face more
closely that you saw a few insignificant lines
about the eyes and mouth, which told the
story of years and of passions. The man had
"lived" every day of his life-with all his
beautifulpelit maitre appearance, you were sure
of that as soon as you marked the face more
closely, and, although Nature or habit had pro-
vided him with a very convenient and very be-
coming waxen mask, which he wore on most oc-
casions, the inner and more passionate self
sometimes broke through and left its traces
behind it.
"I suppose Raymond is here?" Mr. Erle
went on. "He left the office very early this af-
ternoon, and I have not heard of him since. I
should not have been so late, if his absence
had not thrown several important letters on
my hands. I wonder if he will have the grace
to blush at sight of me?"
"If so, you will have to teach him how,?'
said Ermine, smiling. "I am sure he has not
been guilty of such an indiscretion since he
was five years old."
"He shall answer for himself," said Mr.
ErIe, drawing her hand under his arm.
Mr. Erie was a model of a step-father, every.
body said; so nobody was surprised when he
and Ermine entered the Bitting-room inthis con-
fidential fashion. The light evening meal was
served on a small round table, among lights and
flowers, at which Mrs. Erie and Mr. Sexton alone
were sitting. ~The latter had evidently just ar-
rived, and while he drank acup of scalding cof-
fee (which had the becoming effect of throwing
him into a profuse perspiration), having de-
dined the iced tea which Mrs. Erie herself
was sipping, he watched alternately his lemon-

I


22                       EBB-TIDE.                                                       MADELON GIVES ADYIOE.                23

colored gloves-on which some drops of the
dark beverage had already fallen-and his
lady-love, who sat by one of the open windows
overlooking the garden.
As a matter of personal comfort, Miss ErIe
would have preferred her usual downy nest
among the cushions of the couch, but, whatever
her shortcomings in other respects, she always
knew better than to allow her dress and sur-
roundings to "swear at each other," as the
French expressively have it. An instinct-
the artistic instinct which seems born in some
women to whom art itself is a dead letter-
always served to guide her right; and, being
"cast" for Sabrina to-night, in sea-green silk,
and misty lace, and coral ornaments, she kept
very clear indeed of the blue background of
the couch. Leaning over the back of her
chair, and half concealed in the shade of the
curtains, was a young man who raised his face
as Ermine entered, disclosing the features of
the Raymond of whom we have already heard
so much, and of whom, fortune favoring, we
shall hereafter hear still more.
Like every other member of the family,
Mr. Raymond Erle was handsome. People
often marvelled over the chance which had
brought so many remarkably good-looking
people together in this household. "We have
not a single plain face among us," Madelon often
said, exultingly; and it was quite true. Once
gathered together, the entire Erle clan and the
pretty creole cousins, they formed a rare gal.
axy of masculine and feminine beauty, com-
prising several widely dissimilar types. Ray.
mond, for example, was, in appearance, a law
unto himself: that is, he did not resemble any
other known ErIe, least of all his uncle. It is
tolerably hard to photograph him in the few
words which arc all that custom allows to a
"description," and yet the attempt must be
made; for, to leave his appearance merely to
conjecture, would be to do that appearance a
grievous injustice. The "medium height" is
such a very indefinite phrase, and varies so
much according to the physical standard of
different localities (a tall man on the seaboard,
for instance, being quite a pigmy among stal-
wart moum~taineers), that it may be well to
state positively that he was in height just five
feet nine and a quarter inches. His weight
was not so certain, but it could not have been
very considerable,' for' his figure was slender
even to fragility-thougb not without certain
signs of muscular strength which a practiced

Ii

I~i
[$1

:id

eye would have recognized at once. There
was an elegance about this figure, a je ne asia
quoi of well-bred style, which rendered Mr.
Raymond ErIe a marked man in any assem-
blage, and his picturesque face certainly did
him good service in whatever society the ca-
price of Fortune saw fit to cast him. A singu-
larly handsome face it was-with an olive-pale
complexion, faultless features, raven hair,
heavy mustache, eyebrows pencilled like a
Circassian's, and large, dark eyes, full of vel-
vety softness which no one could mistake for
gentleness-yet, withal, not in the least a face
which could be styled effeminate. On the
contrary, men felt instinctively that its owner
was not to be trifled with; that this keen, fear-
less, determined face indicated a nature ready
to meet any emergencies, and not likely to re-
gard any obstacles to a desired end. Not
always, nor altogether, a pleasant face; but a
face with an attraction which it was impos-
sible to deny, and sometimes very hard to
resist.
The two cousins made such a lover-like
tableau, ensconced in the shade of the window-
curtains, with the fragrant night, all glittering
stars and silent flowers, beyond, that Mr. Sax-
ton's wandering, jealous glances were scarcely
remarkable; yetRaymond's face, when he raised
it, wore any thing but a lover-like expression.
It would be hard indeed to imagine a more
angry countenance. The dark-red flush which
suffused the usually pale complexion, the knit-
ted brows, and compressed lips, were all such
unmistakable signs of deep and bitter vexation
that even Ermine, usually well'acquainted with
the amenities of the household, wassurprised.
At sight of her, however, the lowering features
quickly smoothed themselves, and a smiling
cavalier came forward.
"Don't you think we had better be in
haste, Ermine?" he asked, after they had
bidden each other good-evening. "It is never
good style to be late at a concert; and then I
know you would not like to miss the overture
to the 'Midsummer-Night's Dream,' which is
first on the programme."
"Mayn't I cat a wafer and take some tea
first?" asked Ermine, looking up at him with
eyes in which there was something of the
gleaming yet transparent lustre that water
shows under a starlit sky. "Surely there is
time enough for that?"
"Oh, yes) time enough for that; indeed, I
will bear you company as far as regards the

tea. It is a wonderful stimulant, and may
serve to keep me awake."
"Awake, when you are going to hear the
best orchestra and the finest cantatrice in the
country!" said Ermine, with the marvelling
scorn which he had meant to provoke.
They sat down, however, in very compan-
ionable fashion to their iced tea, and wafers
so light that a puff of wind would have blown
them off the table. Mr. Sexton, seeing his
opportunity, finished his cup of coffee at a
draught, made a half-muttered apology to his
hostess, rose in a steam, and betook himself
and his lemon-colored gloves over to where his
"goddess of the silver lake" was sitting.
"Bnh, what a porpoise l" said Raymond,
in a low voice, watching him with disdainful
eyes.
"At least he is not a 'laggard in love,'"
said Ermine, smiling. "Sec how eagerly he
goes, though Margaret does not look particu-
larly gracious by any means."
"Who can blame her?" asked Mr. Ray.
mond, magnificently; in fancy, he could not
avoid contrasting his own appearance with
that of the rival to whom he had surrendered
the fair field of his cousin's flfl'ections. "I~
certainly requires all his wealth to gild the
fellow's mere appearance. By Jove! he looks
almost as rough as a sea-captain!"
Ominous comparison! Whether innocent
or not, who can say? At all events, at the
mere sound of those two words, Ermine's ever-
ready color flashed into her face, and she
turned upon the speaker with startling impet-
uosity.
"I should think you would grow tired of
that sort of sneers, Raymond," she said; "es-
pecially when you know that there are many
sea-captains who are as polished gentlemen
as-as you are t"
"Many, my dear Ermine, or only one?"
asked Raymond, with a smile which nobody
could possibly have fancied genial.
"There may be many, for aught I know;
that there is one, I do know," she answered,
quickly.
"Granting even that, does one swallow
make a summer? or, because a gentleman
housess to lower himself to the rank of a cer-
tain class of people, does he thereby lift his
new associates to the grade which he has for-
feited?"
"Raymond," said the girl, quickly, "I
don't want to hear any more! You never

lose any opportunity to scoff at Alan and
Alan's profession, and there is no good in an-
swering you. Only," with sarcasm almost as
trenchant as Madelon's, "I should like to
know why it is any more lowering to a gentle-
man to trade on sea than to trade on land?"
"Ermine, you forget yourself," said her
mother, sternly.
"Oh, let lapet its talk!" said Mr. ErIe, indul.
gently. "Words hurt nobody except poor
Raymond, who must look after himself; and the
heiress of half the island of Martinique can
afford to regard with scorn a mere commiSsion-
merchant."
Poor Ermine! Almost any one might
have felt sorry for Aer just then, that burning
flush dyed her white cheek so hotly and pain-
fully once more.
"I-I did not mean that," she said, quickly.
"Papa, I beg your pardon. I did not intend
any thing disrespectful to your tra-that is,
profession. Only Raymond might let Alan
alone!"
"To the best of my knowledge, I have not
mentioned Alan from first to last," said Ray.
mond, in the most injured tone imaginable.
"This is a sample of the way you always treat
me, Ermine. I cannot make the most inci-
dental or general remark, but you accuse me
of a particular intention to sneer. I am heart-
ily ashamed of Alan and Alan's profession,"'
said the young man, with energy "but he?
chose it with his eyes open, ar~d that is an end~
of the matter."
"I only wish it was an end of the matter,"'
said Mr. ErIe, in a resigned tone. "But unfor...
tunately Ermine's friendship is of such an en~
thusiastic nature that Alan and Alan's affairs
seem to me to furnish the staple seasoning of
our life."
"There is certainly no need to inform the
world that one of our near connections com-
mands a trading-vessel," said Mrs. Brie, in her
dignified voice, "yet I heard Ermine, tell Gen-
eral Borne the other day that her 'cousin' was
not in the navy, but in the merchant ~ervice."
"I did not say so, mamma, because the mein-~
chant service is more creditable than the navy,
but because it is a fact."
"It is not always necessary to proclainz
facts," said Mr. Erle. "That idea, my dear
Ermine, is your greatest error."
"I hope it will remain my errora long time,
then," said Ermine ungratefully. "And as for
Alan, the rest of you may be ashamed of him~


24                        EBB-TIDE.                                                            UNDER THE STARLIGHT.                  25

if you like, but I am proud of him-prouder
than I ever was of anybody else in my life."
"You can afford to indulge those fine
sentiments, since he is no relation of yours,
and does not disgrace you in the least," said
Raymond, shying scraps of wafer at a pet-dog
belonging to one of the children, who caught
them eagerly, and found them exceedingly. un-
satisfactory morsels.
"As far as that is concerned, you know I
consider him my cousin as much as Margaret
does."
"By brevet appointment, I presume-yet
I cannot claim a kinsman's most distant privi-
lege without incurring rebuke.'1
"My dear boy, there are Erles and Erles,"
said his uncle, smiling benignly. "You are a
commission-merchant, and Alan is a sea-cap-
tain-the distinction makes the difference."
"I am inclined to think there is another
distinction which makes another difference,"
said Raymond, meaningly-then he leaned back
in his chair and watched Ermine, with a glance
which she felt though she did not see, as Mr.
Erie left the table and walked across the
room, followed by his wife. "There is an-
other distinction-is there not, Ermine?" he
asked after a while in a quick, low voice, in-
audible at five paces off.
"Yes," answered the girl, glancing up at
him with fearless candor. "There is another
distinction-and you know what it is, Ray-
inond."
"What is it, Ermine?"
"It is that Alan is open and true as the
day," she answered, in the same tone "It is
that there is no more narrowness in his heart,
than there is pettiness in his soul; that he
could no more shackle himself with the bond-
age of worldly opinion than he could stoop to
a mean action; and that God gave him so gem.
erous a spirit, so fine a nature, that, if he were
a hod-carrier, he would still be a gentleman."
The young man looked intently into her
glowing face.
"Well," he said, dryly, "now for the com-
panion-sketch-the reverse-picture.1'
"You have heard that often enough, Ray-
inond."
"Yes," he said, with a faint, bitter laugh,
"I have certainly heard often enough-perhaps
a little too often-all the bad qualities with
which you are pleased to endow me. I should
be worse than Isgo if I possessed half of them,
Ermine."

I can only hope that you don't possess
any of them, then, Raymond."
"Do you never mean to do me any jus-
tice? "he asked, with a certain subdued vehe-
mence of manner.
She looked up at him with a quick flash in
her eye.
"Set me an example, by doing Alan jus-
tice," she said, curtly.
The dialoguehas reached rather an exciting
point. Both their faces are flushed, and their
eyes glowing, as Madelon enters the room and
takes in the situation at a glance. As she
crosses the 'floor, Raymond bends down and
says hurriedly, but in a concentrated sort of
voice:
"By Heaven, Ermine, instead of teaching
me to do Alan justice, you are teaching me to
hate him as fast as one man can learn to hate
another!"
Then before Ermine-startled and angry-
can reply, he has risen and walked away.
"May I have a cup of coffee?" said Made-
lon, coming to the table. "There goes that
horrid door-bell-Major Hastings, of course
-Ermine, how does my hair look? You are
lovely, my dear-and what a color! You
ought to get Raymond to talk to you whenever
you are going out. He leaves such a charm-
ing bloom behind him."
--4--
CHAPTER IV.
UNDER THE STASSLIGHT.
THE orchestra is pealing away at the fairy
sclwrzo of the overture to the "Midsummer-
Night's Drei~m"-thatpulse ofjoy which seems
beating for all time-when Ermine and her
escort file softly down the carpeted aisle of a
crowded house, and are ushered to their seats
among a decorously silent and well-bred au-
dience. The color has not yet left the girl's
face-only it has ebbed from the lily-white
cheeks to concentrate, as it were, in the vivid
carnation of the lips, and brighten the soft,
full-orbed lustre of the eyes-so that she never
looked more lovely than she does just now,
seeming, to the fancy of more than one among
those who level glance or opera-glass upon
her, like some fair, delicate, passion-hued trop-
ical flower.
"That girl's eyes always remind me of
lotos-eating and floating down the Nile," said

one poetically-inclined gentleman in a low
aside to his companion. "I suppose she and
ErIcare engaged; but I can't say I approve of
the match. They are entirely too ~nuch alike.
You've read 'Counterparts,' haven't you?
People of the same temperament should never
matry."
"Yes, I have read 'Counterparts,'" an-
swered the companion, who chanced to be an
unusually bright and clever girl; "but I don't
agree with you in thinking that Mr. Erie and
Miss St. Amand are of the same temperament.
One cannot go by the simple fact that they
both have dark eyes, you know. I will wager
you any thing you please, that, if you ask some-
body who understands such things, he or she
will tell you that, if not eountel~parts, they are
at least totally unlike."
"But how am I to find the somebody?
Who does understand such things?'~
"Indeed, I don't know. Temperament is
a dead letter to most people, undoubtedly-but
hush! You must not talk while this heavenly
music is going on!"
It is heavenly indeed; and Ermine is rapt
in a trance better by far than the lotos-eat-
ing of which her admirer has spoken-better
than any thing else in the world save that di-
vine beatitude coming from the pure love of
the saints for God, of which this is no place to
speak. Music-and of all music that which
comes lik'~ a breath of fragrant incense from
Mendelssohn's heart-has led her into a palace
of calm delights where none can follow to mo-
lest her. The exquisite rise and fall of elfin
melody, the very sound with which the bow
first kisses the silver strings of the violin,
stirs and soothes her at once. Other critical
ears are there which listen and admire, as who
could fail to admire that harmony which dies
away "like the sweet south wind over a bed
of violets," that perfect mechanism; that su-
perb orchestration, which Mendelssohn alone
perfected as an art; but, although they enjoy
with intense appreciation, they are not borne
away on the overflowing tide as Ermine is.
She leans back quite silent, quite motionless,
only her expanding eyes-which momently
grow larger, fuller, and more lustrous-tell the
story of her perfect beatitude. Who can say
what dreams the music wakes, what visions
which only a painter could conceive, or a poet
describe, float through her brain on the golden
tide of melody? Into the fragile girl-form
God had seen fit to infuse the true artist-soul

-that soul which can enjoy more keenly, suf-
fer more exquisitely, aud live more wholly
alone than any other which He, in His bound-
less, fathomless wisdom has ever created.
Form, color, sound, each and all have a differ-
ent meaning to her from what they have to
the mass of mankind. She feels them, as she
feels joy and sorrow, in superlative degree.
Those who follow the short record of her short
life will do well to bear this in mind-well to
remember that to such natures do not apply
the cast-iron rul~s which govern the world at
large. Wholly, sometimes fatally different
from all others, are they, and, seeing with sad
eyes how cruelly th~ir tender flesh is sometimes
bruised by the sharp thorns of earth, we can
only hope that compensation is given them by
that serene Heaven whence pity as well as
mercy ofttimes "droppeth like the gentle
rain.
After the orchestral overture, the house
broke into a tumult of that kid-glove applause
which is so significant of what the newspapers
call "a select and fashionable audience "-
applause not meant for those soft, dying ca-
dences, like fairy "horns of Elfland.blowing,"
but for the graceful, girlish figure, the piquant
girlish face which came before the foot-lights,
the young singer-now world-renowned, then
in the first flush of her youth-whom they had
assembled to honor. When she began to sing
-ah, well! the ravishing notes of that sweet
voice dwell yet in the heart~ of some who
heard her in those long-vanished golden days,
and it may be that the fascination of the past
hangs over them. At all events, it boots little
to repeat the verdict which the world has long
since passed on the fair cantatrice, or praise
the power which wrought her audience out
of dreaming, critical calm, into a fever of en-
thusiasm on that by-gone night. Perhaps,
for all their high-b red languor, the warm
Southern current of their blood was ready
enough to be stirred. Even unimpressible
Raymond, who had yawned behind his hand
at the overture, beat one palm upon another,
as he said, "She is divine!"
"Yes, she is divine!" echoed Ermine in
such a tone that iie turned and looked curi-
ously at her.
"One would think that you had been tak-
ing opium," he said. "I never saw the pupils
of your eyes dilated as they are now! You
look as if you were dreaming dreams, or see-
ing visions. Is it hashish or excitement?"


26                        EBB-TIDE.                                                           UNDER THE STARLIGHT.

~ .5

"The soul of the music has gone into my
blood, as ~fennyson says of the rose," answered
she, smilh~g. "You are too cold-you don't
know anj thing about it. No wonder Mira.
beau wanted to die to the sound of music. It
would surely take the pang out of dying-if
any thing could!"
"I thought painting was your hobby," said
he, gisheing over the programme, to sce how'
much longer it would be before the concert
ended.
"And isn't it all the same thing? Ohif
you could only tell what pictures I have seen
-what exquisite, lucid, beautiful tints-since
I have been sitting here. But then it is not
heaven. It must end."
"Soon too, I hope," said he, devoutly.
But nonc of this concerns us very much,
save in its effect on Ermine-which effect
could scarcely be overrated. She might have
been taking opium, hashish, any thing, from
the expression of her face, the rapture of her
sensations, when at last she rose to go. At
another time she would not have felt the music
so intensely; but the excitement of the even-
ing had eome too closely-too entirely without
intermission-on the excitement of the day,
on the long, feverish strain over the picture
that had mastered her soul as the music mas-
tered her mind. Now she was "deified," she
trod in supreme exaltation on air; yet a wise
physician looking at her would have foreboded
terrible things from the reaction so pitilessly
sure to come. Do you remember the wonder.
ful description of an opiusn.tranee which Dc
Quincey gives in the "Suspiria?" Something
like this was upon Ermine when, pouring out
with the crowd, she found herself driving
home, under a dome of deepest steel.blue,
thickset with glittering stars. Sleep! How
should she sleep with every pulse throbbing,
every nerve quivering, every faculty of being
strung to its utmost tension? Surging through
her brain-dominating even the jubilant clash
of the orchestra, and the pure tones of a silvery
voice-she seemed to feel the mighty pulse of
the sea, to hear the soft swish of the waves, to
catch the liquid sound of that grand ocean.
monotone which, old as Time itself, will only
end when "Time shall beno more."
"Raymond," she said, as they alighted be.
fore the door of the Erle House, from the
open windows of which laughter and merry
voices floated out on the odorous night air,
"I cannot go in and face all those people-the

noise and the light and the talk would drive
me distracted. I am going down to the Bat.
tery to listen to the water. It may quiet
me."
"Quiet you!" said Raymond, naturally
much astonished. "My dear Ermine, what
quiet do you need? You have not spoken
three words since the concert ended."
"Au, but you don't know what I have
felt! How could you? I should not be sur.
praised if you were sleepy; but I am confident
I shall never sleep again."
"The best remedy for that will be to go to
bed, I think."
"Go to bed! The mere idea of such a
thing is abhorrent to me! I should simply
lie and. toss and toss and toss-until finally in
despair I might go to my paints. Then
wouldn't I look a ghost tomorrow! If you
want to avert that calamity, you wrn not say a
word while I run down to the Battery."
"You forget your mother-what will siw
say?"
"If I were Madelon, I should answer, au
disable with mamma! As it is, I don't care
what she says. I must go-I will go ! Won't
you be a good boy, and stay here till I come
back? I pledge you my word, I sha'n't be
gone ten minutes l"
"Stay here! I should think not, indeed!
I will be a better boy, however, and go with
you."
"Oh, no, no-I must go by myself. I want
the silence, and the night, and the water.
Raymond-please stay!"
"Don't be a-don't be foolish, Ermine!"
said Raymond, almost roughly. "If you have
a mind for romantic star-gazing, of course I
will take you to the Battery; but a.s for letting
you go alone-that is nonsense! Your mother
placed you under my care, and, whether you
want me or not, I shall accompany you."
"Then," said Ermine, with a slight stamp
of her foot on the pavement, "I won't go!"
"Then," said Raymond, with a very per-
ceptible accent of anger, "you will be doing a
much more sensible thing than I could have
expected of you."
"You are impertinent!" cried she, blazing
out upon him.
"Pardon me," said he, biting his lips. "I
had forgotten that women think they have a
monopoly of incivility."
"Raymond, you know that is not true!"
"Whatever it is," said Raymond, coldly,

"I think this discussion had better be con-
cluded in the house."
"I am not going into the house," retorted
Ermine, haughtily. "I am going down to the
Battery."
"Then I shall accompany you."
"You may follow nie, if you choose-you
certainly shall not accompany me."
A pause. Affairs being at a " dead-lock,"
both combatants stop for breath, and eye each
other in wrathful silence. Just then a hand
pushes back a curtain of the bay-window, and
two figures-a man's and a woman's-stand
relieved against the brilliant light behind.
The woman is tall, slender, white-clad, with
heavy dark plaits binding her head, and a
scarlet flower burning among them: the man
is aJso tall, well made, and handsome. Their
voices float out distinctly on the still night
air.
Says the gentleman, "Your Benedict and
Beatrice have not arrived yet."
"No doubt they have stopped en route for
a sociable quarrel," answered Madelon's silver,
mocking voice. "Benedict and Beatrice have
a weakness that way, you know."
"They certainly are an interesting pair of
lovers," says the deeper tones, languidly.
"But can you tell me-why is quarreling al.
ways an incipient sign of love?"
"How should I ,know? I never quarrel,
and I never was in love."
"You never quarrel !-you never were in
love! My dear Mademoiselle Lautrec, how
shocking! If some one made you very angry,
then, you might, perhaps, condescend to begin
the first-and, having begun the first, you
might glide into the second."
"Scarcely, I think."
"May I try?"
"To make me angry? Oh, certainly; but
I think it right to give you warning that you
will not be likely to repeat the offence."
"Why not?"
"Simply because I regard it as such a fool-
ish and undignified amusement that I always
drop the acquaintance of any one who has once
led me into it."
"Thanks for the warning-I shall be care.
ful, then. But why make such a rule ?-why
leave such a charming character as that of
Beatrice entirely to your cousin?"
"Probably because I have no fancy for a
Benedict."
"Would a Romeo suit you better?"

"To smother me in sweets? No. 'Aueun~
citemin defleurs ne conduit cl la gloii'e '-and r
take it that Jove and glory are much the same:
thine~"
"Perhaps Mark Antoriy-"
"Ah, now you touch me more nearly-only,.
instead of losing a world for me, I should
much prefer that he would gain one."
"With you for inspiration, who could fail
to do so?"
"INow, that is very pretty, Major Hastings.
I am sure you have nothing better in your
quiver; so, on the principle of the best thing;
last, we will go back and report to Aunt Vie.
torine that Ermine ~ias not come."
The curtainn fell again as they passed away.
For a moment there was silence between the
two eavesdroppers outside; then, in a hard sort
of a voice, Ermine said:
"If you have no objection, I believe Is1~ould'
prefer for you to come with me. I have some-
thing to say to you."
"I am at your service," he answered,.
stiffly.
Side by side they walked a~way. Raymond
did not offer his arm-probably because h&amp;
knew that it would not be accepted-and
neither of them spoke until they reached the
Battery. Then, for the first time, Mr. ErIe
opened his lips.
"Give me your hand, Ermine-you wlll
miss the step."
"No, thanks-I can see p~rfectly,",replied
Ermine, coldly. Having ascended the steps,.
she turned from him, arid, walking some die.
tatice, stood leaning against the railing-a
white shape, faintly outlined in the dusky
gloom-gazing seaward, and listening to the
waves beating softly at her feet.
What her thoughts were, Heaven only
knows-perhaps she did not know herself-
but the quiet of Nature stole over her like a.
subtle spell. Excited fancy, indIgnant~ anger,.
both died down; both seemed hushed into.
insignificance by the wonderful power that
wrapped water and shore in their "trance~
calm" of perfect rest. In a little while she
might have been herself once more-the self
that shrank morbidly from giving pain-.-if
Raymond had only been wise enough to leave
her alone.
But Raymond was no observer of that
subtle flux and reflux of feeling, which-chief~
ly for the want of a better name-we call
mood. Eminently practical himself the sensi-.

26

EBB-TIDE.


28                ~~~~~EBB-TIDE.UNETIESALG.

tive, artistic temperament was to him m~e
than a marvel, worse than an enigma: it was
sheer folly and imposition. As he stood silent,
striving to read the riddle of that white, stead-
fast face, he registered a solemn vow that if
this wayward, haughty girl were ever in his
power, her romantic fancies should be very
summarily dealt with, and her proud spirit be
broken if it would not bend. At present, his
predominant feeling with regard to her was
one of intense irritation; and unfortunately he
was not entirely successful in keeping this sen-
timent out of his voice, when he finally lost
patience and spoke.
"Did you bring me lucre to gaze at you,
while you gazed at the stars, Ermine? If
there were a little more light, I might find the
rcile interesting; but at present it is rather un-
satisfactory."
Ermine started, and, frowning slightly under
cover of the darkness, turned toward him.
No one could have told how keenly this dis-
'cordant voice jarred on her at the moment.
"No," she said, with more repellant cold.
ness than he had ever seen in her before, "I
did not bring you ~uere to gaze at me. That
would have been a very poor inducement in-
deed. I brought you to speak a few plain
words-for I think it is tim~ that we came to
an explanation."
"Indeed!" said Raymond, a little startled,
yet not ill pleased, that his opportunity had
eome thus unexpectedly. "I am a plain
man," he went on, "and therefore always
ready for plain speaking. Let us have an
explanation by all means ; the sooner the
better."
"Yes," said Ermine, " the sooner the
better." Then she stopped a moment to collect
herself, for in truth it was a bold step she was
about to take, and one from which she would
have shrunk if this tide of excitement had not
been giving her a fietitiou~ strength. "Since
you are fond of plain speaking, Raymond,"
she continued, before he l~ad time to do more
than feel the pause, "I hope you will not be
surprised if I speak to you very plainly-so
plainly that I may perhaps shock you. You
heard what Madelon and ~ajor Hastings were
saying. Of course, it is n  ~t necessary ' for me
to tell you that such things are not true.
Since they are not true-since they never will
be true-you can imagine how very disagree.
able they are to me. In fu~ct, I will not toler-
ate them. Being a man, you must find some

way to let people understand that you and I
are nothing to each other."
"Being a man, my dearQErmine, that is
just what I cannQt do," said Raymond, fold-
ing his arms and leaning against the railing so
as to face her.
"Why not?" she asked, haughtily.
"Simply because it is not my place to do
so; and simply also because we are a great
deal to each other now, and I hope we may be
more hereafter."
"You forget yourself;" she said, growing
in 1~auteur every moment. "You are nothing
to me either now or hereafter; and certainly
I will never be any thing to you!"
In the clear starlight they could see the
outline of each other's face, but all play of
expression was of course veiled in obscurity. If
Ermine had been able to watch the effect of
her last words, she would have seen that Ray-
mond paled in very marked degree, though his
tone was as easy as it had been before, when
he answered:
"I can prove that you are mistaken, Er-
mine., The man who loves you passionately,
and wishes to devote his life to proving that
love, cannot possibly be 'nothing' to you;
while you are simply every thing to me."
"Raymond 1" She was so young that for
a moment she lost dignity in passion. "How
dare you utter such words to me! You know
they are not true. You know that, if you ever
loved anybody besides yourself, you loved
Margaret, an'd that she-poor girl-loves you
still!"
"Margaret!" he repeated, and his face
lightened, for he thought that, if she were
jealous, his~hance was better than even he had
dared to hope. "Is it possible you think me
such a fool as to love Margaret, Ermine?
You might know me better. You might
know that the beauty of a doll is not likely
to attract me; and Margaret has little besides
that."
"I am very well aware that she has not a
fortune," said Ermine, bitterly.
The shaft was too keen not to strike home;
for, let a man be ever so conscious of mer-
cenary motives, a taunt concerning those mo-
tives is none the less hard to bear. The dark-~
red flush common to Raymond's olive com-
plexion surged over it, as he an~wcred, rais-
ing his figure a little, and slightly throwing
back the chest across which his arms were
folded:

"I see you think that woman may use in-
sult as well as incivility with impunity, Ermine.
However, it is well for us to know exactly on
what ground we stand. Do you mean to
imply that my object in addressing yourself is
purely mercenary?"
The question was pointed and direct. Er.
mine's clear tones answered it without a shade
of wavering or hesitation:
"Knowing no other object which you could
possibly have, I am constrained to say that I
do."
"Then," said he, haughtily, "justification
is impossible to me, and, if it were ever so pos.
sible, would be beneath me. In this, as in
many other things, I must bear as best I can
the odium of your injustice."
"I am tired of that charge," said she, pas-
sionately. "Prove tome that I am unjust, and
there is no one living who will sooner amend a
wrong. You know that of me. Prove to me
that I misjudge you; do not content yourself
with mere assertion."
He bent forward and laid his hand down
upon hers. Even in the starlight she seemed
to fehi the fire whieh gathered in the velvety
depths of those dark eyes.
"If I prove your injustice to you, Ermine,
will you let me name my own reward?"
She shrank back from him-shrank in-
voluntarily, and in a manner which would
have cut to the very heart a man who truly
loved her.
"No" she said, "I can make no such
promise, because, if I were ever so much mis-
taken, I can only beg your pardon for my un-
just suspicions."
"Will you give me leave to convince you
of the sincerity of my love, Ermine?"
"No, Raymond." She spoke more gently
now, because in truth it was hard to behave
that the earnestness quivering in his voice was
all for her fortune. "It would be useless. I
can never love you."
"Many women have said that who learned
the lesson of love at last."
"1'crhaps so-but I am not one of those
women."
"Give me at least leave to try. You shall
be free as air-bound to nothing. Only let
me try."
"No," said she, quickly-almost sharply.
"That would be next thing to an engage-
meat, and people would have some right to
talk of us, while you would have some right

28

to reproach me when I came to say, at last,
what I say now-I do not love you, and I can
never marry you."
"You had better consider that decision,
Ermine."
"If I considered it forever, I should never
change it," said she, relapsing into haughti-
ness.
"You are sure of that?"
"I am perfectly sure of it."
He shrugged his shoulders slightly, and
again she seemed to feel the light of the dark
eyes facing her own so steadily in the soft
starlight.
* "I am not a betl~ing-man, Ermine," he said,
quietly, "or I should be willing to layheavy
odds that you will live t~ regret those words.
-and to unsay them."
Why was it that at this moment a cold
hand seemed to grasp Ermine's heart, and
hold it in a vice? She was free as air; no
human being had any power of compulsion
over her-least of all, the man who stood be-
side her-yet Madelon's words seemed to come
back on the soft flow of the water murmuring
at her feet: "Sooner or later, you will have
to do it-why not succumb at once?"
But the serrsment du eceur, as the French
call this contraction, did not last more than a
second. Indignation rushed over her all the
more strongly for the momentary terror which
had preceded it; and her words, when she
spoke, seemed to sting like a whip, in their
contemptuous scorn.
"It is time for this conversation to end,.
since you think it worth your while to try to
intimidate me. I think I have said all that I
wished to say-that I have definitely made
clear all that I desired to make clear. I
brought you here to tell you, once for all, that
the plans which you have been building will
never be realized; and, having told you this,
my conscience is clear."
"In other words," said Raymond, whose
anger was so great that he could not restrain~
the expression of it, "you did me the honor
to reject me before I had ever made a pro-
posal."
"I knew you would not spare me that.
taunt," said Ermine, quietly. "I expected it,
and it does not wound me in the least. Of its.
generosity I leave you to decide. Once more,
however, I must request that it may be defi-
nitely understood by everybody concerned,
that there is no truth in the rumors whicin


30  EB-TDE.ERLES AND ERLES-.

31

ii

have been circulated-.by whom, I kuow Dot."
"Perhaps I can enlighten you on that
point."
"I do not care to be enlightened," she re-
turned. "The subject has no interest for me.
Now, if you please, we will go back. Madden
and Major Hastings may make some other
pleasant and good-natured remarks on our ab-
sence if we remain longer.'~
"One moment," said he, laying his hand
again on hers. "You have had your turn to
.speak-now I must be sufficiently discourteous
to detain you until I have had mine. In the
first place, I do not accept your decision as
final. No-yo(n need not start and draw yOur-
self up. That should be made clear at once.
I do not accept it. I shall endeavor to induce
you to reconsider it, and I tidnic zou will do
so. Next "-was it Ermine's fancy that the
voice took a alight tone of menace here ?-" I
wish you to understand that I know perfectly
well who has been at work to prejudice you
against me, and that I generally pay my debts
-with interest."
"Raymond," the girl gasped-for the first
time unnerved and thrown off her guard-c--" I
do not understand you. I do not know who
you mean. No one has ever spoken againstt
you to me. On the contrary, everybody-
there at home-is only too anxious for me to
marry you. I..-.-I do not know whom you
mean."
"You know perfectly well whom I mean,"
he answered. "You know pexfcctly well that
I mean that-.-that brother of mine, Whose
business in life has been to annoy and disgrace
rue. The day may come, perhaps, when he
and I will settle scores, and then I shall not
be likely to forget to-night."
"Alan is capable of taking care of him-
self," said Ermine, in that voice of indescrib-
ably mingled pride and tenderness which is
so significant from a woman's lips. "Your
threats do not frighten mo-they only prove
how right I have been from first to last in my
opinion of you. As for his having ever influ-
enced me against you, I will not defend him
from such a charge. Even while you make it,
you do not believe it yourself."
"In ether words, you accuse inc of delib-
erate falsehood. (lo on, Ermine I Fill up the
full measure of your injustice!"
* "Raymond, I am tired," she cried, with a
sudden sound like a moan of paint '~Oh,
why have you forced me to all this ?-why

will you not be content when I tell you that I
do not love you? I can say.no more than
that.1'
"There is no effect without a cause," said
he, grimly. "You do not love me because,
with all your haughty pride, you do love some
one else-and I know only too well who that
some one ~
He uttered the last words with ill-con-
cealed malice, and paused for an answer, but
no answer came. Ermine turned from him,
and took two or three steps away. Then in
the starlight he saw her pause, and apparently
kneel down against the railing. He waited a
minute or two, but she remained so silent and
so still that he went up to her, and, after his
questions received no reply, laid his hand on
the white shoulder that gleamed like polished
marble through her muslin dress~#~~
Then he saw thai the reaction had come,
and that she had quietly fainted, with her
head pillowed on the railing, while the starlit
waves rippled softly just belc~w
CHAPTER V.
ERLES AND ERLES.
PEXIHAPS there is nothing more trying to
the patience of a story-teller, than to be forced
to pause in full tido of dramatic action to fur-
nish some tiresome bit of explanation, descrip-
tion, or retrospection, which, ten to one, will
bore the reader almost, if not quite, as much
as it has already bored the writer, yet which
the exigenciesof the narrative render impera-
tively necessary. At such times one yearns
for the liberty of a playwright, who leaves his
characters to tell their own stories, and de-
scribe their own antecedents in that epigram-
matic flow of language with which everybody
is gifted on the stage-wasting neither time
nor paper on the excessively " heavy~' business
of filling in and filling out, of narrating family
circumstances, and recounting family genealo-
gies, which falls with such a responding
weight of weariness on the unfortunate novel-
ist. What must be, must be, however; and
sometimes matters come to such a pass that
a few plain words are absolutely essential to
set them straight, to place the reader in that
properly confidential position which a reader
should always fill, and-as they expressively
have it at sea-to "clear the decks for ac.

tion"in such a satisfactory manner that there
shall hereafter be no troublesome interrup-
tions to the smooth working of those different
threads which go to form the story. Thus
much by way of preface and apology for a
few words which duty-not inclination-ne-
cessitates, concerning the Erles. Somebody
says that the writer who goes back in his
story for any purpose whatever, loses ground
and goes back just that much in the estima-
tion of his reader. If this rule hold good, I
fear that I must prepare myself for an enor-
mous retrograde movement in the minds of all
who may glance through the pages of this
sketch, for the necessity of which I have al-
ready spoken requires a backward leap of
several years from the date on which my story
opens.
To begin in rather irregular fashion, there
once lived an English governess in the house-
hold of the Erles, a certain Miss North, who,
being of a decided literary turn, and of de-
cided scribbling propensities, kept a journal in
which were recorded many things, curious and
otherwise, concerning the family in which she
resided. It occurs to me just now that I
can lighten my own shoulders of a consider-
able burden by throwing the labor of describ-
ing the past circumstances of the Erles on
the willing shoulders of Miss North. Her
journal-which I chance to possess-is tempt.
ingly explicit on this point, and, as far as I
can judge, moderately attractive in style, so I
cut therefrom a few pages, paste them in my
MS., and head them in approved romantic
fashion.
Leaves from Ike Journal of a Governess.
4pri~ 1,185-.
(A date three years before the story.)
"To-day being Friday, I did not begin
school, but I saw my two pupils, who are kept
much more to their~ own domain of nursery
and school-room than American children in
general, tested their acquirements, settled the
order of their studies, and gave them some
lessons for Monday. They are very bright
children, perfectly polished in manner, and
quite well instructed in all the biensiances of
social life, but as ignorant as little pigs of
the most common rudiments of every-day
learning. Reginald could not spell his own
name, when I told him to do so, but shrugged
his shoulders with the air of a Chesterfield as
he said, 'Fit bien, he would write his initials

as Cousin Raymond did!' I strove to ex-
plain that, in case of emergency, it would be
as well to know how to write it in full, and I
think he at lastacimitted the force of my rea-
soning. I have taken quite a fancy to him,
although he frankly informed mc that he
hated governesses, and wanted to go to school
with other boys. 'Suppose other boys asked
you to spell your name?' I said. And at
that my young gentleman hung his head. As
for Louise, she is a little fair-haired doll, a
pocket edition of Margaret, with her head so
full of toilets and ciuffons that I despair of
ever putting much else into it. She smoothed
out her pink-silk skirt, in which she looks
like a little ballet-dancer, and sat on my lap
with her tiny-slippered feet crossed, her small
hands demurely laid over one another, her
large blue eyes on my face, and answered all
my questions with an aplomb and ease of man-
ncr that would have done credit to a young
lady of two seasons. She told mc exactly
what sort of ' point it is that ' mamma
wears on her handkerchiefs, how many beau-
tiful bracelets and rings Margaret has in her
box on her toilet-table, and oh! what a lovely
gold-colored silk came home for Ermine the
other day, with* flounces just so (showing ~on
her own diminutive skirt), and trimming across
the body this way. But I shall nevcr forget
her face when I asked her the result of add-
ing two and two together.
"After I had disposed of the children, I
sent for Ermine, who came, with a glow of
pleasure that made her look fairly beautiful,
and conducted me to her chamber.
"'Mamma orders that all painting be done
in the school-room,' she said, 'but I draw
here as much as I please, and I want you to
look over my portfolio. My teachers used to
compliment me a good deal on these sketches,
but I hope you will not hesitate to express
your real opinion about them.'
"I assured her that I would certainly ex-
press my real opinion, whatever that opinion
might be; and, with her mind apparently
much relieved on this point, she placed me in
a delightful easy-chair by an open window,
whose lace curtains the soft southern breeze
was fluttering to and fro, drew a low otto-
man forward for herself; and laid a richly-em-
bossed drawing-portfolio in my lap.
"To say that I was astonished, when I un-
tied the strings and began to. look over the
different sketches, is a very faint way of ex-

20

EBB-TIDE-


ERLES AND ERLES.

pressing what I really felt. I am forty-five
years old, and I have been tossed about the
world ever since the day I entered a pen~i on-
nat des demcieelles at Paris; I have visited
numberless schools of design, and seen the
sketches of hands with whose works the world
is now familiar; I have frequented exhibitions
all my life, and taken the greatest interest in
artists and their productions; but I had never
seen any thing to equal the exquisite delicacy
of finish and power of touch which were visi-
ble in these sketches of a girl barely seventeen,
and almost entirely untaught. As I turned
them over, I remembered the day when I, too,~
had hoped to do something with colors; Ire-
membered the bitter death of that hope, and,
for the first time in all my life, I felt resigned.
My rough counsellors had been right. Talent~
was mine, never genius like this. One after
another I placed aside the sheets of 'bristol-
board, and still wonder grew upon me; for,
whether it was an elaborate drawing where
stroke was laid on stroke with the beauty of
a line-engraving, or the merest outline unfilled
by any detail, the same facile pencil showed
itself, the same bold freedom of hand was
there, fhe same marvellous power of conveying
expression in a single line or dot, the same
divine inspiration caught from Nature's self.
"I looked entirely through the portfolio
before I said any thing; then, as I began to
replace the sketches, I saw that Ermine was
gazing very wistfully into my face.
"' I see what you think,' she said, in a
very subdued voice. 'Don't pain yourself by
telling me, mademoiselle. You think I have
been flattered and am very foolish-that is
all.'
"I looked down at her; the soft, dark
eyes met mine very bravely, though a little
sadly, and, after a while, I laid my hand on
her shoulder.
"'Child,' I said, gravely,' I wish it were
some voice of more authority than mine to tell
you that God has given you one of His great
talents, and that in this portfolio is that which,
if you choose, can make you world-renowned.'
"She started violently, and looked at me
incredulously.        -
"'Mademoiselle, you-you are jesting!'
"I shook my head.
"'No, I am in earnest-do you think I
would jest on such a subject ?-as much in
earnest as when I tell you that all question of
teaching is at an end between us. We can

paint together, and I may be able to give you
a few practical hints ii~ the use of colors; but
instruction I am unable to render.'
"She looked at me half startled, almost
awed.
"'Mademoiselle, pardon me ; lean scarcely
believe any thing so strange! I~ this really
true?'
"I answered as gravely:
"'It is certainly true.'
"Then, to my surprise, she bowed her
head down on heir hands, and I saw quick
tears gush through the slender fingers.
"'Alan was right,' she said, in a low
voice.
"After this we adjourned to the school-
room, to see what she could do with colors,
and here I found that my instruction was very
much needed. She knew verylittle indeed of
painting, and even what she did know had
evidently been taught by incompetent masters.
Her aptitude and eagerness to learn, however,
I had never seen surpassed. She threw her-
self, hcart and soul, into the lesson, hung upon
my every word, watched my manipulations of
the brush with eyes that fairly glowed, and at
last dashed off a bit of foreground that elicited
my warmest praise.
Is it really good?' she asked, still some-
what suspiciously.
It is really wofiderful, for a beginner.
What a pity you are an heiress, my dear!
You ought to be what Nature has made you,
an artist.'
"'Oh, how I should like it!' she cried,
eagerly. 'I would rather be an art-student,
and work for my daily bread, than the rh~hest
heiress in the world.~'
"'Does it never strike you that a good
many art-students would gladly exchange their
lives for yours?'
"'Sometimes,' she answered, retreating a
step back to look at a rock she was painting
-' sometimes, and then I wish we could man-
age to do so. It would make me very happy,
I am sure.
"'And would you give up your beautiful
island?'
"'I would go to see it. I could enjoy it
as much as if I owned the whole of it, you
know.'
A' 'And your guardian?~
"Her face fell; it was almost as mobile
and candid as a child's, that face!

"'True. I would have to give up all my
friends to the new Ermine. Then I don't
think I could possibly exchange with her. I
would not resign my dear guardian and Alan
for all the paints in the world!'
"What a strange girl she was! Her dear
guardian and Alan-not a mention of her
mother or any member of the household in
which she lived?
"'Yes,' I said, laying an artful little trap,
'the new Ermine would take all your friends
as well as your fortune~-she would be your
mother's daughter, and yea Would have no
more interest in her than a stranger.'
"She was standing with her profile to me,
and I thought I saw her lip quiver at the last
word; but, if so, it was only for a second, ~nd
she answered, after a moment, quite as easily
as before:
"'I hope she would be fair, then, and like
dresses and visiting, and-Raymond! Mamma
would gain by the exchange, in that case.
Poor mamma 1'
"There was a sudden change of tone-a
sudden giving way-a sudden pathos in the
last two words, that took me completely by
surprise. I looked up quickly; the girl's face
was quivering all over as if with unshed tears,
and she suddenly threw down her palette and
brushes.
"'That is enough for this morning, don't
you think so, mademoiselle? It is nearly din-
ner-time, and I must change my dress, for
look what paint-stains are all over it!'
"'You must have some aprons,' said I,
looking at the pretty muslin which was ruined.
'Don't forget 1-long aprons that will cover
the whole front of your dress. I will not
give you another lesson until you have put
one on.'
"'Very well,' she answered, a little ab-
sently. 'I will tell Lena to make me some at
once. What are you going to do, mademoi-
selle?'
"'I am going to clean this palette of
yours,' I answered, a little severely. 'Jt
should never be left in this condition.'
"At which Mademoiselle St. Amand very
forcibly took the palette out of my hand.
"'Let it alone,' she said. 'I mean to send
Lena to do it.'
"'Lena! But how should a maid know--'
"'She knows,' interrupted my companion,
decisively. 'Alan showed her how when he
and I used to play at painting,~and were both
.3

of us too lazy to clean the palettes and brushes
ourselves.'
"'But my dear Ermine, do you never do
any thing for yourself?'
"The young West-Indian shrugged her
graceful southern shoulders.
"'A gui bon, mademoiselle? If I were
poor and an artist, I should have to, you know
-but I am not either poor or an artist, and
that is an end of the matter 1-Come, I want
to wash my hands, and then-do you know
what I mean to do?'
"'No. Howshouldl?'
"She bent down, laughing, and made the
portentous annomiceyient in a very dramatic
whisper:
"' I mean to show you Alan's sketches.'
"' Indeed!' said I, not quite so over-
whelmed as she seemed to expect. 'Then
perhaps you will also enlighten my ignorance
as to who Alan is. I have not heard yet, you
know.'
"'Have you not? Well, then, you shall
hear-all about him! Come, now.'
"She ran lightly down-stairs before me--
the school-room is in the third story-singing
a gay French song as she went, and seeming
to fill the Whole house with the grace of her
sunshiny presence. I could not help follow-
ing her fondly with my eyes-it is such a
pleasure to see a young girl who is still enough
of a child to enjoy her youth. At the foot of
the stairs she paused to wait for me, and we
both went hack to the pretty chamber we had
left an hour before-the chamber that looked
~as pure and sweet as its occupant.
"I sat down in my former seat by the
open, jasmine-hung window, while Ermine
washed her paint-smeared hands, and, that
duty over, crossed the floor to a little inlaid
cabinet, unlocked it with a key that hung at
her ckdtelaine, and gazed down at it as she
might have gazed at the tiny altar arranged
with such care in a curtained recess not far off~
-the altar with its ivory crucifix and holy-
eyed Madonna, its withered palm-branch and
flask of holy water, its silver lamp and all the
other tender arrangements, which, strict Prot-
estant though I was, had touched my heart
strangely when I first entered the room.
"'This is where I keep every thing coil-
nected with Alan,' said she, glancing back at
me. 'I love dearly to look at them-but
still, they make me sad. I cannot exactly tell
why, but they do. Here is a little boat he

~Ii

22                        EBB-TIDE.


EBB-TIDE.
34
made me once-long ago. See! It still has ish, too. Idraw like Alan? I do any thing
its pennon and the xiame he gave it-La belle like this foreshortening, or that sea, or those
~ Poor Alan! lie was always so fond figures? Why, it is ridiculOus! I could not
of the sea, but he expected to be a naval of- do it if I were to try forever!'
fleer in those days. And here is his own port- "'Very well,' said I, with a little sigh of
folio, with his own sketches in it. Now, made- resignation, 'we won't argue the point. You'll
moiselle, prepare to be dazzled.' allow me, however, to retain my own opinion,
"I am bound to say that,, if I had done so, I hope. It is all a matter of taste, you know
I should have been grievouslydisappointed- -most things are, in this world. So 1-is it
for the important sketches were byno means possible?'
extraordinary either in conception or execu- "'What is the matter?' she asked, for I
tion. The ordinary efforts of clever talent, had suddenly paused, with my eyes fixed on
without one spark of genius-that was all, the portfolio in great surprise.
Better sketches certainly than are usually "I pointed to the inside, where, in a large,
found in an amateur's portfolio; better, even, flowing, rather boyish hand, was written sev-
than those of many would-be artists, showing cml times over the name of 'Alan Erle,' and a
considerable knowledge, and great apprecia- date eleven years before.
tion of art, showing also a certain spirit and "'Yes,' she said, 'the portfo~ was his
vigor that made you like them better the lon- when he was a boy, but the sketches have
ger you looked at them; but not worthy of be- been drawn at various times since. A good
ing compared with those exquisite efforts of many are foreign, you sec-all those South-
the girl who now looked u'p in my face, expect- American scenes, for iiistance-and that pict-
ing praise as naturally as she had before cx- nrc of the Adventure he drew for me the last
pelted censure. I praised honestly, but what time he was at home.'
I said did not seem to satisfy her.          "' I was noticing the name,' I said.  'I
"'Mademoiselle, you speak so coldly!' had no idea he was-'
she cried, half indignantly. 'Surely you think "'Papa's nephew? Had you not? But
them more than just "well done," You wasted he is-and Raymond's brother, too.'
so much praise on my foolish drawings, and "I suppose I looked astonished, for she
now you have nothing to say that is worth went on quickly:
saying about these sketches-Alan's sketches.' "'They are only half-brothers, and I some-
"'Do you really think these are as good times thint~ that they must be even less than
~.as yours, Ermine?' I asked, with a smile, that-they are so totally unlike. Raymond is
"'As good a~ mine? Mademoiselle!' so worldly, so mercenary, so cold-hearted and
"It was almost anger that spoke in the as- naTrow-minded, while Alan is-well he is my
tonished tone, almost anger that mounted over preux chevalier whose praises I never grow
.eheek and brow in a sudden, burning blush. weary of sounding!'
"'Because, if you do,' I pursued, very "'But he is no relation of yours,' said I,
~coolly,, 'you are wonderfully mistaken-and a little suspiciously, as befitted forty-five and
-either partiality blinds your judgment, or your my preceptress responsibihty.
skill is even more instinct than I thought it.' "Yet I could not help feeling a little
"For a moment I really did not know ashamed when the soft, dark eyes lifted them-
whether she would throw th~ portfolio at my selves to my face, candid and pure as the first
impious head, or take me 4by the shoulders, mother's before the fall.
and put n~ out of the room, she faeed me "' I have always thought that there are
with such indignant eyes; but I held myself some ties stronger than blood, mademoiselle-
prepared for either event, and endeavored and that gratitude is chief among them. I
meanwhile to look as quiet as possible, so the have never had but one friend since I left i~y
storni blew over in words. dear island, and Alan is that one. I shall never
"'Mademoiselle, I did not think y~u would forget the first time I saw him. I was a poor
have treated me so. I would never never have little wretched, homesick creature, with the
shown you Alan's drawings, if V ~had~ ~t heaviest head and the sorest heart that ever a
thought you would appreciate them-if~ I b~A child carried about, to its own discomfort and
ever suspected that you would have said such the annoyance of other people. I had done
cruel things! They are cruel, and-and fool- nothing but fret and wail and weep from the

ERLES AND ERLES.                     35

hour I went on shipboard to the hour I
landed, aud from the hour I landed to the
hour I first saw Alan's faee. I had worn out
everybody's sympathy, and worried every-
body to death. I had even so far exasperated
mamma that she forbade my appearing in her
presence "until I could behave myself prop-
erly." I was ns much an object of disgust to
Margaret as she was an object of detestation
to me. I hated Mr. Erle, I hated the city, the
house, the servants, every thing abput me, I
even fairly loathed the daylight; and I was
lying on a trundle-bed in the nurseryy, sob-
bing my very heart out, and wishing I could
commit suicide-you need not smile, made-
moiselle, for I remember distinctly that I-was
wondering how I could manage to do it-
when the door opened, and it seemed to me
an angel stood there. But it was only Alan-
dear old Alan, in whom there was not much
of the angel! He had been writing in the
school-room, and heard my sobs. To this day
I remember the exprOssion of his face-its
supreme pity and gentleness, though he was
only a boy, and a very rough boy, of sixteen.
To this day I hear his voice as he said, "Poor
child ! "-and took me and all my misery up
in his arms. From that hour I loved him,
and from that hour I have been resigned to
my life of exile. Mademoiselle, do you won.
der at it?'
"I smiled. It was so like an intense
Southern nature to magnify such a simple act
into such large proportions!
"'At the loving, or the resignation -
which, Ermine?'
"'The loving,' said she, frankly. 'Ah!
if you only knew how good and true and ten-
der he has always been to me! And they try
to make me ashamed of him! Ashan~ed of
hint I My brave Alan! Why, I honor him
more, as the simple captain of the Adventure,
than if he were an admiral of a hundred
navies!'
"I contented myself with simply asking,
Why?'
"Then the impulsive tongue was loosed,
and she told me a very touching story in a
few words:
"Fifteen years ago, by f~r the largest and
wealthiest business-house in Charleston-one
which dealt in all commercial enterprises with
a bolder spirit and on a surer basis than any
other-was that of Erle Brothers. They were,
it seems, for a time, the veritable money-kings

not only of Charleston itself; but of the whole
rich country which was, in a trading sense,
tributary to it. Their ships were on every
sea, their endorsement was received as gold in
every mart of commerce, their enterprise and
prosperity were building up the city as well as
their own fortunes, when there came a year to
be long ren,~embered, of monetary panic and
crash-n time when all credit failed, when
gloom overspread the whole country, when
disaster and ruin were so common that men
merely shrugged their shoulders over a new
failure. Yet, even at such a time as this, the
tidings echoed like a thunder-bolt that the
house ofErIe Brother~ was bankrupt! It was
only the old story, with the old tragic ending
-for the elder brother, unable to face his
darkened life or shattered fortunes, put a pis.
tol to his head and ended both! The younger
acted more sensibly. Thanks to a very hand-
some face and a very beguiling tongue, he
married a charming and wealthy West - In-
dian widow whom he met while temporarily
rusticating in those lovely islands. Then,
with his wife's. fortune, h"~ came back to
Charleston, and resumed the old liusiness on a
much smaller scale. The dead brOther's old-
est son brought so much untiring energy and
skill to the cause of reiistablishing the fallen
credit of the house, that he was rewarded
with the position of junior partner; and, from
that day to the present, this second firm has -
been steadily advancing in the public confi-
denc~, until there are now few more influen-
tial houses in the city. But, meanwhile, there
was another son-this Alan-who, from his
boyhood, had loved the sea as only sailors of
Nature's own making ever do love it, who was
his father's pride atid delight, and who, while
Raymond was destined to the gloomy tread-mill
of the counting-house, had always been pi~om-
ised his heart's desire-a naval appointment.
lie received it at last, and had already made
his first cruise, as a midshipman, when the
awful blow came. It was ~he first news to
greet him when he reached his native shore-
the first item that met his eye in the first news-
paper carelessly thrust into his hand -the
one topic upon every tongue. Even the very
newsboys cried in his ear, 'Failure of Erle
Brothers! Suicide of the senior partner!'
It was good for the poor b4 that he had a
mother-else the blue water was very close at
hand, and youth is little able to bear those two
spectres that daunt the oldest and the hardest


"SEE, THE CONQUERING HERO COMES!"

- Disgrace and Mortal Agony. He came
home, however-to be congratulated that the
crash left his prospects comparatively unhurt.
His mother-the father's second ~vife-had
been moderately independent, and, with a
thoughtfulness very rare among American
men, her husband had insisted that all her
fortune should be settled on herself This
was safe, this would support her in ease, and
also give Alan an independence of the world;
but the two only looked in each other's eyes,
and saw the same desire in each. 'My son,
it is for your father's good name 1'the mother
said. 'Give it up, mother,' said the boy. 'I
will work for you.' So, despite the angry re-
monstrances of the elder brother, the fortune
was resigned to the creditors of the firm, Mrs.
ErIe opened a school, and Alan gave np his
profession and ambition forever!
"'For, you see, he could not continue in
the navy,' said Ermine, who had warmed with
her story until her eyes were glowing with
enthusiasm. 'He had to make money-for
he was determined his mother should not
drudge at school- teaching longer than he
could help-and the navy is the last place in
the wodd for that, you know; so ~e entered
the merchant - service. Nobody, except his
mother, encouraged him in the step-every-
body thought it was a dreadful thing for a
gentleman's son to dojiRay~ond fairly raged
against it-~bat Alan held firm. "I was born
for a sailor," he said; j'I shall never be con-
tent anywhere but o~ the sea, and I can be
content there in an~r capacity. When Na.
ture makes a man ohe thing, he never does
any good by going against the grain and be-
coming another. I shall not cease to be a
gentleman because I enter an honest profes-
sion, nor lose any regard that is worth keep-
ing." And he carried otrt his purpose-his
two purposes. He became a seaman, and he
has risen so steadily that, although he is only
twenty-six nOw, he is captain of one of the
finest vessels that leaves the port of Charles-
ton. He supports his mother so well that she
gave up her school long ago, and lives in one
of the most charming little houses in the
world, where I will take you to seeher some
day, for I love her dearly, and she looks just
like a fairy godmother!'
"Of course I said I should like it very
much, but, staid governess as I am, I believe
Ermine's enthusiasm has so far infected me
that I feel more in~ined to see her wonderful

hero-the naval officer turned sea.captain-
than even the mother for whom he made his
sacrifice."
This is as much of Miss North's journal as
concerns us at present. She has told-amply
at least-the story of the Erles; and it is to
be hoped that her conclusion may find some
faint echo in the minds of all readers, gentle
or otherwise; for the "naval-officer turned
sea-captain," whom she desired to see (and
whom, by-the-way, she did see, and liked ex-
tremely), wrn soon make his bow before the'
foot-lights.
CHAPTER VI.
SEE, THE CONQUERING HERO COMES1"
"WELL, my dear, how do you feel this
morning?" asked Madelon, as she enteredd her
epusin's chamber, somewhere about 10 A. iI.~
on the day after the concert. "I should have
been in to see you before, but Lena reported
that you were asleep, and I thought it a pity
to disturb you, One should be allowed to
sleep after achieving such a fainting-fit and
such a sensation as you did last night. ilfa
foi / why do you look so much astonished?
Had you forgotten all about it?"
"No,, indeed. I remember the fainting'
perfectly," said Ermine, ruefully. She pre-
sented a very woc-begone and dishevelled ap-
pearance just then as she lay among the white
dr4eries of the bed, her head on one pillow,
and her hair tossed over another, dark circles'
under her languid eyes, her lips so pale that
they looked as if the blood had been drained
out of them, her whole system unstrung, and
apparently passive under the terrible reaction,
which is the Nemesis following ~dose upon every
excitement of the nervous temperament. "I
remember the fainting perfectly," she con-
tinued. "It was very foolish of me, but I could
not help it; it came on me too suddenly. But
I don't remember any sensation which I caused.
I thought you were all taking it very quietly,
when I came to myself."
"Oh, then I suppose we were," said Made-
Ion, sitting down on the side of the bed, and
beginning to sniff at a flafon of cologne which
had fallen from the slender hands that looked
too nerveless to clasp even a bottle. "But
Mr. Sexton, and Major Hastings, nnd the Dun.
wardins (who had spent the evening playing

whist with Aunt Victorine and Mr. ErIe), were
all here when Raymond entered bearing the in.
sensible form of Mademoiselle St. Amand in his
arms! Pray, can you imagine what a sensation
there was in that ease!"
"Madelon, how have you the heart to treat
inc so! You-you know you are only jesting.
It is nbt true."
"Jesting! Good Heavens, Ermine, can't
you tell jest from earnest? On my honor as
a Christian, it is every word true."
"Those people were really here?"
"Certainly they were-every one of them.
Of course it is a pity"(philosophically), "for
the Dunwardins are the greatest gossips in
Charleston, and everybody will hear of it be-
fore noon to-day."
Ermine sat up in bed, pushing pack her
'hair with both hands, and looking so piteous
that she might have moved even her cousin's
e~moassion.
"0 Madelon!" (gasping as if for breath),
" don't tell me that Raymond took me in
there-straight in there where they all were?"
"Yes, he did," said Madelon, decidedly.
"' It would be a cruel kindness to keep the
truth from you, because you will be obliged to
hear it as soon as you go out. Instead of
calling Aunt Victorine to see about you, he
brought you straight into the sitting-room;
and I think, for my part" (waxing a little
'warm), "that it was very ungentlemanly con-
duct."
"It was infamous conduct," cried Ermine,
sinking back upon her 'pillows in a wild pas-
sion of tears, "and I will never, never, never
forgive him for it as long as I live!"
Madelon made no answer. In fact, the
tears did not give her much opportunity for
reply. She quietly waited for them to subside,
:sniffing meanwhile, with meditative calmness,
at the cologne, and sprinkling herself with a
fragri~nt shower now and then.
"Don't ~ry so, Ermine," she said at last,
~a little sharply. '~ What on earth is the good
of it? You'll only spoil your eyes, and make
your head ache. I can tell you" (significant-
ly), "you will 1e sorry if you do. Of course,
it was outrageous in Raymond; or would have
been outrageous, if matters had not been
settled. I take it for granted, however, that
you are engaged to him."
"You know better than that," cried Er-
mine; with a smothered, wrathful sob. "You
know I would die first!"

"Mon Diete!" (with surprise which, if sim.
elated~ was the perfection of art), "do you
mean to say you are not engaged to him?
Well, my dears I congratulate you upon being
the most imprudent and the most inconsist-
ent woman in Charleston. If I had a fancy
to compromise myself; and to be town-talk, I
think I should select a man whom I liked, and
not one whom I professed to hate."
"Profess to hate! I don't know what'you
mean by that, Madelon. You know that I do
hate him!"
"I know it, do I?" said Madelon, sarcas-
tically. "Well, really you must excuse inc if
I differ with you on1 that point. I know you
say you hate him; but actions speak so much
louder than words, that incredulity is pardon-
able."
"What actions of mine have ever spoken
any thing but detestation for him?" demanded
Ermine, turning round with eyes which began
to blaze through their tears.
"Did your actions last night speak very
mucl~ detestation? Instead of coming home
from the concert, didn't you dismiss the car-
riage and walk down to the Battery ?-didn't
you stay there for an hour or two ?-and
didn't you finally make your entrance in Mr.
'Erie's arms?"
"Don't you believe that, if I had known
any thing about it, I would have done any
thing before he should have touched me?"
"I am not speaking of~ossibilities," said
~fa~lelon, coldly. "I was simply mentioning
facts."
"Well, I can mention a fact also," said Er-
mine, suddenly changing to ominous calm.
"You wonder why I didn't come straighthome
from the concert. I will tell you. The music
excited me very much-as music always does
-and when we reached here, and I saw how
many people were assembled, I told Ray.
mond "-the very pronunciation of his name
cost her an effort-" that I wanted to run.
down to the Battery and quiet myself with the
sound of ~he water. He refused to let me go
alone, and I refused to allow him to accom-
pany me, so the matter would probably have
ended by my coming in, if you had not gone to
the window~ just then with Major Hastings.
You remember what you said "-her eyes
brightened and expanded until even Madelon's
lids sank beneath their glow-"I was not more
than a stone's-throw from you, and of course I
heard it all. It surprised me, for I could no~

p

36

EBB--TIDE.

37


SEE, TUE CONQUERING hERO COMES!"

38                        EBB-TIDE.

have imagined that you would so easily recon-
cile it to your conscience to give currency to a
report which you knew to be false. However,
that does not matter. Another disappoint-
ment, more or less, is of small importance. I
was going to say that what I heard made mc
determine to come to an explanation with Ray.
mend. I requested him to accompany me to
the Battery, and I told him explicitly that
the~ things must end, for that nothing on
earth should ever induce me to marry him."
"In other words, your were kind enough
to reject him before he had ever offered him-
self."
"He said that too; and it hurt me no
more from his lips that it does from yours."
"And have you any idea what will be said
of you-especially after last night?"
"I am past caring what is said of me by
any gossiping tongues whatever."
"I can, assure you, however, that Aunt Vie-
torine will care."
"She will have no right to do so, since it is
her own fault."
"I think you will.be sorry for all this one
day, Ermine."
"Not half so sorry an you will be for
lending yourself to4 such a scheme, Made-
ion."
"The odds are too unequal," said Madelon.
"You will be forced to come to terms."
Ermine clinched her hands together, and,
pale as she had been before, grew still more
pale with resolution, no~ with fear.
"You will ~ she said.
"Yes, I will see," the other rejoined. "I
think it right to tell you~ione thing, however:
I have made my last effort in your behaW and
given you my last warning. I am a soldier of
fortune, as you well know: I have my ownway
to make in the world, by my own wits, and I
cannot afford to let sentiment or feeling hold
my hands. Heretofore I have tried to serve
you-honestly tried, according to the best
judgment I could form, little as you may think
it. Hereafter, I shall servo myself. If my
interest clashes with y~u'rs, I give you fair
warning that I shall not surrender~ an inch."
"I can credit that, Madelon," said Ermine,
coldly. "I only do not understand why you
should think it necessary to give such a warn-
ing."
"Simply because I wish the point made
clear. I owe the world nothing," said the girl,
setting her teeth, "and I am determined to

take all that I can gain fromit, by cunning oi
by force."
"Why not follow Margaret's example?"
asked Ermine, with bitter weariness. "Why
not sell yourself to the highest bidder?"
"Nobody has ever bid high enough,"
answered Madelon, throwing her head back
with the air of a De Rohan. "Poor as I am,
I have that which many a millionnairess lacks,
the knowledge how to spend wealth. Oh, if I
were "~clasping her hands with that dra-
matic feri'&amp;r which comes by nature to all of
French blood-"juste Giel! what a grands
dame I could be!"
"What a pitiful ambition!~~ said Ermine~~
face-though not her lips. Then she added
aloud: "I wonder you don't consider what a
sinful thing such an inordinate desire for wealth
is; and to what consequences it may lead. It
seems to me that it is at the bottom of nearly
every crime of earth since our Lord Himself
was betrayed for thirty pieces of silver."
"Why don't you preach to Margaret?"
asked Madelon, with her trenchant sneer.
"She practices, while I only theorize."
"Margaret has not a tenth part of your
sense, Madelon, and therefore she is not a
tenth part as accountable. Besides" (with a
sigh), "she is only making a ~nariage de con.
penance, as hundreds of other women do. No
doubt she will be happy enough. She will
have laces and j&amp;els in abundance, and they
constitute happiness for her.. But you-you
are different."
"I hope so indeed," said Madelon, shrug-
ging her shoulders, "By.the-by, I must not
forget that I have two items of news for you.
First, that Mr. Sexton has been formally ac;
cepted."
"I am not surprised at that," said Ermine
-and a vision of Raymond's face seemed to
rise before her as she had seen it behin ar-
garet's chair the night before.
"Secondly, that Captain Erle, of the ood
ship Adventure, has delighted his loving rela-
tions by an appearance this morning.
Ermine started, and a flash of rapture came
over her face; bathing every feature in such a
flood of radiance that, for a moment, she
looked fairly transfigured.
"Alan!" she cried, eagerly. "0 Madelon,
has Alan come?"
"Do you suppose I would be likely to tell
you so, if he had not?"
"And is he here-down-stairs?"

"I left him at the breakfast-table when I
came up.
"And why did you not tell me before? To
think that I should have stayed here all this
while, and my dear boy down-stairs! Ring the
bell for Lena, please, Madelon-I must get up
at once."
"And make yourself sick."
"WJ~o cares? But I shall not; Alan is
better Pr me than any tonic. Oh, why don't
Lena come? I am so afraid he will go some-
where before I can get down!"
"I don't think there is the least fear of
that; but I can go and tell him that you will
be down, if you like."
"Yes, thanks, I should like it, if you don't
mind~ Tell him he has made me well-or no!
Don't tell him that, because he ivill ask what
is the matter with me, and I would rather he
did not hear about my folly last night."
"You may set your mind at rest on that
score," said Madelon, coolly. "I left Aunt
XTi~torine giving him a minute account of it
when I caine up.
"0 Madelon! how could she?"
"Nonsense, 1~rmine! Could she know by
intuition that you did not want Captain Erie
to hear of your!flirtation with his brother?"
"Madelon, how dare you say such a thing?
I never flirted with anybody-much less with
Rayniond-in m
"Then I have azingly little idea of what
flirtation is! However, we won't come to
blows; our 'little hands were never made,'
etc. And, fortunately, here comes Lena to
keep the peace. Au revoii-."
Enter Lena, and exit Mademoiselle Lautrec,
singing as she went. Ermine heard her clear
voice lilting " Chagrin d'Amoui-" all the way
down-stairs; and, as she went to her toilet,
she could not help wondering how much heart
her brilliant cousin really possessed. It Was
a question which everybody who knew Made-
ion was sooner ~r later forced to ask, and
which nobody had ver yet been able to answer
to his or her satisfaction.
Ermine, as a general rule, was remarkably
dilatory about dressing, but on the present oc-
casion she went to the business with such a
rush of energy (energy which might have as-
tonished Lena, if that astute personage had
not known the cause of it perfectly well), that
her toilet was soon an accomplished fact,
every garment donned, every ribbon tied, every
hair in its place, if hairs so 'wandering could

possibly be said to have a place. ~3he gave one
last glance in the mirror when all was com-
pleted, saw the graceful figure, clad in mi~ty,
transparent white, the sweet, low-browed face,
the delicate, sensitive lips, the wonderful eyes,
crossed with a shade of languor through all
their happiness, and, giving one last touch to
the coral-tinted ribbon tied lit a careless knot
at her throat, went down.
What a day it was which came with fra-
grant kisses to her languid brow, as she crossed
the lovely, marble-paved hail, the wide-open
doors of which let in bounteously the glory
outside! The smile of God seemed to rest
upon our insigniflci~nt planet, making it for a
time almost as fair as heaven's self. It was a
triple bridal of earth and sea and sky, which
was taking place out where the shining waves
were coming so gently to kiss the blooming
land; and far, far in the lucid depths of
sky-
"Where, through a sapphire sea, the sun
Sailed like a golden galleon! "-
straight on to that high noontide splendor,
when men, perforce,~ must veil their faces
from the transcending beams of his majesty,
and only Nature can still look bravely up-
ward, with "till her quaint, enamelled eyes "-
sending the while sweet odors, like holy
prayers, on every breath of the capricious
south wind, which kissed the "plumy palms"
of the tropics, before it came to roll ?he
sparkling waves upon their golden sand, and
die like a god on a royal couch of perfumed
roses.
These same roses were sending their mes-
sages into the sitting-room-filling every nook
and corner with a fragrance like no other fra-
grance of earth-when Ermine entered. How
many people were in the room she. did not
know. On crossing the threshold she saw but
one face, a bronzed, handsome, thorough-bred
face, with limpid eyes, half-blue, half-green, as
if they had caught their tint from the sea on
which they loved to gaze, smiling a welcome to
her.
"Alan! Alan! I am so glad to see you
again!" was all she could say, as she felt the
clasp of those kind hands which embodied
almost the whole of tenderness that her life
had known.
"Glad to ~ee me! I wonder if any words
can make you understand how I have wearied
for a sight of you-wearied until I knew what
it was to be homesick even on the blue water!"

'4


/

"SEE, THE CONQUERING HERO COMES!"

said the voice, for the sound of which her soul
had thirsted even as men, fainting in a desert,
thirst for a draught of cool water. "My pet!
my pet! what have they been doing to you, that
you look so pale?
"I am always pale," said Ermine, gazing
up at him with the air of one who, having en-
tered some long-desired haven of repose, has
neither wish nor care left.
"Pale! Do you think I don't know that?
You were always a lily, but such a pure and
stately lily. Now you droop your white petals
wearily."
"Do I, Alan?"
"Yes, you do. And your eyes-they are
happy but so languid-as if you were tired in
spirit. Come here, and let me look at you.
Unless I have lost all my skill, I can soon tell
what is the matter with you."
"Nothing is the matter withmc now I have
seen you," said Ermine with a childish truth-
fulness. She was a woman with Raymond-
a woman who could hold her own against any
odds. But wit~ Alan she was still as much a
child-as purel1~r and simply at her ease.-as on
that by-gone d~y when he had taken her and
all her misery into his arms. As he led her
across the floor to the full light of one of those
windows through which the sweet breath of
the roses came, she noticed for the first time
that by some rare, happy chance, the room was
empty of all save they two. Where all the
rest were-her mother, Margaret, Madelon-
she did not pause to wonder. It was enough
that Fate for once had been so kin~. She sank
with a deep sigh of satisfaction into the easy-
chair whiph Alan drew forward, and folding
her hands in her lap-they were absurdl~f
small, those hands-glanced up at him with an
expression of perfect beatitude.
"Sit down there," she said, pointing to a
low chair in front of her. "I want to look at
you, and I cannot do so unless you are on a
level with me. Now, that is it. Alan" (gaz-
ing at him critically after he had olleyed),
"you-are-browner than you wore!"
"Then we are quits, since you are whiter
than you were," replied Alan, who had man-
aged to accommodate himself not very ungrace-
fully in the small chair aforesaid, and looked
as well contented with his quarters as Ermine
did with hers.
"How often must I tell you that my
paleness is of Natu~-e?" said she. "If you
talk of it much more, I will buy or borrow

some rouge and use it for your especial
benefit."
"That would be to paint the lily, indeed.
No" (shaking his head), "I see how it is: they
have been bullying you among them nIl, while
I was away."
"No, Alan; on my honor, no."
"On your honor, Minnikin?"
"Yes, on my honor. Ah, you don't know
me" (shaking her head in turn), "I have such
a bad temper that nobody could bully me!"
"Who ought to know you better than I?
Didn't I have the onerous duty of bringing
you up? Don't try to abuse yourself to me,
for it is perfectly unnecessary, I assure you. I
know all the good, and all the bad, of you;
and~~O child, child, how little there is of the
latter 1"
"I am glad you think so, Alan, but indeed
I am very wicked."
"Are you ?"(with a half.amused, half-sad
sigh), "then God knows I wish I was wicked,
too. Perhaps those dear little white hands
might come and teach inc of their own ac-
cord."
The dear little white hands in question
came, at this, and smoothed back the short,
thick curls-not exactly gold,'nor yet exactly
brown, but something between the two-from
the broad, unmanned brow which lay under
them like a snow-drift.
"Alan," said the gentle voice, soft and
sweet as Cordelia's own, "I hope my hands
will wither away, if ever they become too good
to touch you-you, who alone have kept my
heart from wither all these years."
"And do you kn what you have kept
mine, Ermine?"
"A little warm, I tins ; a little conscious
of prayers and blessings following you when
you were tossing about on the ocean."
"A little pure, too," said the young man,
sinking his voice slightly. "lam sinful enough,
God knows-it is hard to live a man's life in
the world and not to be-but I might have
been infinitely worse had it not been for you,
Ermine, you stainless lily, praying for me
(God bless you! ) far way. Often your sweet
eyes have risen and' shamed away some devil's
thought from my soul. Often your sweet voice
has come to still some tempest, such as you
cannot even dream of; in my heart. I wonder,
sometimes, what you have ever found worth
caring for, worth praying for, in a great, rough
fellow like myselV'

"What did you find worth caring for in
the fretful, tiresome child whom you saw and
comforted long ago?"
"I found the warmest heart and the sweet-
est nature in all the world," said he, taking the
tiny, lissome hands and brushing them with
his heavily-mustached lips. "How you cricd
yourself to sleep in my arms -~hat day! I
shall never forget your poor, littl~, pale, tear-
drenched face, with its great, dark, tired eyes!
Do you know that something in your appear-
ance when you caine into the room a while ago
recalled that homesick child to me, and I felt
\strongly inclined-foolish enough, wasn't it?
~to comfort you again as I comforted you
then?"
For the first time in her life Ermine felt
that she was blushing under Alan's gaze and
Alan's words. She began to wish that she
was not facing that flood of relentless light
from the window, as she felt the roseate flush
coming like a wave into her alabaster cheeks.
"Your presence is comfort enough," she
said, meeting the limpid eyes with her soft,
dark orbs. "You don't know how uneasy I
have been about you. Your letters sa you
would probably be here the first of May, dl
haunted the Battery daily, until yesterday
mamma forbade it."
"And so you concluded to stay in bed to-
day! Was that the reason I was so grievous-
ly disappointed when I came in and did not
find you at the breakfast-table?"
"No," said Ermine, appreciating this art-
ful trap as it deserved. "I stayed in bed be-
cause I was not welL"
"And why were you not well? Aunt Vie-
torine told me that you fainted last night.
What made you faint?"
"The reaction from excitement, I suppose.
I painted hard all day, and heard some glori-
ous music at night. Between the two I was
color-mad and sound-drunk. So, when the
excitement was spent, I made a fool of myself
and fainted."
"And Raymond-confound him !-brought
you home."
"Yes, Raymond brought me home."
Silence for a while. Captain Erle gnawed
his mustache, and looked out of the window,
while Ermine let her loving gaze linger on ltim.
"They will kill you among them," the for-
mer said, at last, in a tone of exasperation.
"From your mother down, they know nothing
about you, and every thing they do is harm~

instead of good. The life you are leading
here is written in your pale face and your
weary eyes. Ermine" (with sudden energy),
"you need not deny it, they have been trying
to make you do something. Was it" (with
rising wrath) "to marry Raymond?"
"Nobody has been trying to make me do
any thing," said Ermine, astonished at the
astuteness of this marine gentleman. "You
forget that I have my dear guardian to whom
I could apply, if any thing of the kind were
attempted. As for ~a~ond" (indignantly),
"I detest him."
"Do you really, Ermine?"
"How can you apk me such a question,
Alan? You know Ido."
" Then" (with a deep breath) "thank God
for that load gone! Ermine, my pet, do you
know that when I came in this morning they
all hinted, if they did not assert, that you were
engaged to him?"
"But you did not believe it, Alan?"
"Not I, until I saw you. But when you
came in, like a pale little statue stepped from
a niche in some cathedral, I thought they
might have bullied you into measures. But
you are all right, and I am as happy as an ad-
miral ! "
"Foolish boy," but her smile was a caress;
"we have been having a liberal allowance of
reasonsn, stratagems, and spoils,' however.
Do you know that Margaret is engaged?"
"And Madelon, to9, I hope. There's in-
flammable material in that girl, and the sooner
r,~he is safely tied in the halter of matrimony
the better. Apropos of halters, Ermine, would
you like to go to ride this afternoon?"
"Oh, of all things, if I can-if mamma
will let mc!"
"We'll make her let you," said he, gayly.
"A sailor on land is like a school-boy at home
for the holidays-a priylleged character, whom
it is everybody's duty to humor and amuse.
Here comes Aunt Victorine I will ask her."
Mrs. Erle entered at the moment, and Er-
mine at once understood why this tfte-d-t~fte
had been permitted. Astonishment and vexa-
tion were plainly legible on the lady's face, as
she caught sight of that confidential scene at
the window: ~he had evidently fancied her
daughter safe in her chamber and in bed.
"You here, Ermine I" she said. "I was
just on my way to your room to forbid your
exerting yourself by getting up to-day. I
should have been there before, but I had to

N

40

EBB-TIDE.

41


42                          EBB-TIDE.                                                        STRATAGEMS AND SPOILS.                  43~

settle the new governess in her duties with
Ilegy and Louise." (After the departure of
Miss l~Torth, Mrs. Erle had eschewed a resident
governess and employed day-teachers, who,
as a general rule, were changed every two or
three weeks.) "You look wretchedly," she
went on. "I must insist on your going back
to your room and lying down, while I send for
Dr. 'Juthbert."
"Dr. Cuthbert does me no good, mamma,'~
said Ermiac, wearily. "Please let me stay.
I feel so much better down here than I did up-
stairs."
"You are excited again,~~ aid'~frs. Erle,
feeling her ~ulse. "The next thing will be
another fainting-fit. I must in i~t on your
resting to-day, even if you don't' ee Dr. Cuth-
bert."
"Let me prescribe for her," sMd Captain
Erle, ~vho had risen, and stood tall ~ad stately
by the window. "Let, her go t6 ride this
afternoon, and I ~~ill wagnr~anytihing that we
hear no more of fainting ts."
Ermine looked imploringly into her moth-
er's face, but a flint could not have been
harder than that pleasant, gracious c6unte-
nanee.
"Impossible!" she said. "It would be
The most perfect folly, and, in her present
weak state, might bring on a serious illness.
Ermine, I insist on your going to/your room."
"Very well, mamma," said Ermine, rising;
"if you insist, I can go. But it is very use-
less.-Good-by, Alan!"
"Good-by, St. Agnes," said Alan, smiling,
as h9 clasped the soft hand extended to him.
The clasp, the smile, went up-stairs with
the poor little, lamb-like martyr, and sweetened
herexile more than ~t is possible for words to
tell. After all, what did any thing else matter?
Alan had come t
-4--
~Th CHAPTER VII.
STRATAGEMS AND SPOiLS.
ERMINE discovered, before long, however,
that there were a few things which still
mattered to the degree of discomfort-even
though Alan had come home. Having been
remanded to her chamber, and feeling too
happy and lazy even to paint, she subsided
into a chair before the open window, and,
leaning her arms on the broad sill, bathed

herself in the glory and beauty of the day
like a very sun-flower. Looking out on the
green, happy earth, the wide, laughing water,
or far up into the blue, intensely blue sky,
arching over all things4ike the dome of some
vast cathedral, it was easy to be happy even
without any tangible cause; easy to lose one's
self ia vague, sweet dreams, and vaguer,
sweeter fancies; easy to forget that there
were such things as sin and suffering on earth,
that, under this hyacinthine sky, hearts were
breaking, sobs were uttered, nurses breathed,
death-gasps given, souls, alike of sinners and
of saints, going forth on the wings of every
idle, golden minute, to face the justice of Him
who, mid all the mad carnival of human mis-
ery, insanity, and crime, is still "patient be-
cause eternal." On many a changeless, dead
face throughout the smiling land, these quiver-
ing sunbeams fell, yet they brought none the
less of life-giving warmth in their touch when
they glanced athwart the happy face, pillowed
on a pair of soft, white arms, in this open
window. 0 lovely and ~most loving face! It
was well, indeed, that the world had little to
do with your short life, that its kiss was never
laid on your sweet lips, or weighed down earth-
ward the jids of your pathetic eyes. It was
truly well, for, among all those glorious bless-
ings and tender promises which we call "the
beatitudes," what so glorious, what so full of
tenderness as the one which tells us that
~"blessed are the clean of heart: for they shall
see God?"
But golden as Ermine's day-dream was,
it did~ not remain uninterrupted. In such
trances, we literally "count time by heart-
throbs, not by moments," ~so she had no
means of telling what exact number of sec-
onds elapsed from the time she sank intn her
chair, to the time when a knoe)c sounded on
the door. "Come in," she ~ lazily, and,
lifting her face, looked round as the door
opened. To her surprise, Margaret stood on
the threshold.
"I suppose I may come in," said the lat-
ter, hesitating a moment under her step-sis-
ter's involuntary glance of surprise. "I
thought you were in bed, Ermine."
Oh, certainly, come in," said Ermine, ris-
ing and drawing forward a chair. "No: I am
not in bed-I dressed to go down and see
Alan, but mamma insisted on my coming back
to my room, though" (with a sigh) "I am
sure it was very unnecessary. It is kind qf

you to come and see me, Margaret. Sit
down."
Margaret sat down-a billowy mass of
blue drapery, crowned by a lovely but most
pettish face. Signs of storm, past, present,
and to come, were written on the vivid coral
lips, in the violet eyes half veiled by their
milk-white lids, on the brow l~ke smoothest
marble or finest satin, drawn just now into a
petulant frown of discontent.
"I am sure I think you look as well as
usual, Erm~ne,'~ she said, with a half-offended,
half-aggrieved intonation of voice. "Fainting
seems to agree with you; and it was a very
nice way to get up an interesting scene, and
let everybody know the degree of your inti-
macy with Raymond."
"You are tuistaken," said Ermine, coldly
-she was so well used to the beautiful god-
dess's ebullitions of spleen, that neither the
tone nor the form of this address surprised
her-" fainting does not agree with me, for
Alau says he never saw me look so badly
and, ss for getting up a scene to let everybody
know my intimacy with Raymond, considering
that I am not intimate with him, I don't see
why I should have wished to leave the im-
pressioll on anybody's mind."
"Not Intimate with him!" repeated Mar.
garet, in a high key. "Not intimate with
im, when you are out together at all hours
o~ the day and night, when you faint in his
9)rms, and when" (a still higher key) "every.
body says you ought to be engaged to him, if
you are not 1"
"Did anybody ever say that to you, Mar-
garet?"
"Yes, plenty of people-Mrs. Dunwardin
said it when she went away last night."
"Then give Mrs. Dunwardin my compli-
ments the next time you see her, and request
her to be kind enough to mind her own busi-
ness."
"Ohit is very fine to carry off matters in
that way; but telling people to mind their
own business-which is very uncivil and un-
lady-like, by-the-way-won't keep them from
talking. Of course you don't care, though"
(relapsin~ into grievance); "as long as you
can play off Raymond against Ah~n, and Alan
against Raymond, it makes no matter to you
u~4at people say."
- "Margaret, such nonsense is not worth
getting angry over," said Ermine, with deter-
mined calmness, though two scarlet spots be-

gan to burn in her white cheeks. "Will you
excuse me if I ask you to change the subject ?
I am very tired of my unfortunate escapade of
last night; and Raymond's name is fairly hate-
ful to me!"
"Oh, no doubt it is hateful to you since
Alan has come back!" cried Margaret, with
quivering lips, and eyes that blazed through
all their odalisque softness. "It was very
far from being hateful to you when you stayed
on the Battery till after midnight last night,
however! I wonder you are not ashamed to
play fast-and-loose in such a disgraceful man-
ner?"
"Margaret, I w9n't tolerate this !" said
Ermine, rising. "You have no possible right.
to speak to inc in such a manner, and I will
not listen to it."
"You shall listen to it!" said Margaret,
rising, too, and stamping her foot to give
emphasis to her words. "I have the best
possible right to speak, for you took Ray..
mond from me to make a Wy of him for your
amusement. Don't I love him better than
anybody else in the world?" cried the girl,.
with a ring of pathos through all the vitupera~
tivo passion of her voice-" and am I not
forced to marry this horrid Saxton, while you
-you who might be happy with him, throw
him away for a disgiace-"
"Hush !" said Ermine, with eyes blazing:
in turn. "Say what you please to me, and,
for the sake of Christian charity, I will bear
it; but you shall not say any thing about
Alan! I won't stand that!"
"Really, it seems to me that Alan is my
cousin, and that unless you are engaged to
him, he is nothing to you."
"He is a hundred times more to me than
any cousinahip can make him to you; and, as.
I told you a moment ago, ybu may say any
thing you please to me, but you shall say'
nothing of him."
"I have no desire to say any thing of him
-there is nothing to be said. I only want to.
tell you that I might have forgiven you for
taking Raymond from me if you had loved
him and married him; but that I will never~
never forgive you for making him leave me,,
only that you might treat him like this!"
For the first time Ermine saw how this
beautiful, tame face-this face so often petu-
lant, so rarely moved by any deeper expression~
-looked, when convulsed, changed, intensi-
fied by the master-passion of human nature,.


STRATAGEMS AND SPOILS.                   45

44                       EBB-TIDE.

the passion which had stirred even this shal-
low nature to its depths. Through her preoc-
cupation-her pity mingled with indignation-
the quick artist-eye caught, the retentive ar-
tist - mind remembered, the transformation,
and many a long day afterward the same face
stood out clearly on canvas-a loveliness elo-
quent of rage and scorn.
- "Margaret," she said, gently, "stop a mo-
*ment, and be reasonable. How did I ever
make Raymond leave you? Have I not
discouraged him always, and always plainly
showed that I did not like him? Do you
think that, because~ you find him attractive,
everybody else must do the same? I assure
you that, if any thing could make me despise
him. more than I have always done, it has
been the manner in which he has treated you."
"It is no affair of yours how he has treated
me," cried Margaret, with a foolish woman's
illogical wrath. "Do you suppose I imagine
that he gave mc up for ~jou?" she went on,
with a scornful laugh. "It is some consola-
tion that it was for your fortune, not for your-
Self; that he left me."
"I am perfectly well aware of that fact,"
said Ermine, coldly. "But I cannot realize
the consolation of it. One would not despise
a man for being fickle, but one would despise
him for being mercenary. -
"And do you flatter yourself that your new
lover is any more disinterested?" asked Mar-
garet, bitterly.
Ermine drew up her slender .~lane~ figure
haughtily. "I do no~ know of whom you are
speaking," she ~aid, proudly.
"You may find out some day," said Mar-
garet with a slight gasp-a premonition of
hysteria-in her throat. "Biit it is hard that
I am the only one to be sacrificed," she went
on, sinking bac1~ into her chair, while a shower
of sudden tears washed all the fire out of her
eyes. "You are not made to marry Raymond
-though he told me only last night that it is
a matter of life and death to him that yoti
should do so-while I am sacrificed to this
her-horrible man whom I detest!" -
"You are not a Circassian," said Ermine,
with an inflection of unconscious contempt in
her voice. "Nobody could sacrifice you, if you
did not sacrifice yourself."
"It is easy for you to talk!" said Margaret,
indignantly. "You are rich, and your own
mistress; nobody can force you to do any thing.
But I am different."

"You are a puppet in Raymond's hands,
and for Raymond's selfish, mercenary pur-
poses," said Ermine, indignantly, in her turn.
"Do you suppose that I don't know that you
accepted Mr. Sexton at his bidding? It is in-
comprehensible to me that you should suffer
his influence over you, when he uses it for such
an end as th~. Margaret, for Heaven's sake,
ask yourself could he ever liave loved you
and yet urge you-force you-to such a step
as this?"
"Whit can you know of his love?" asked
Margaret, blazing out once more. "Is it im-
possible for any one to love me? Plenty of
people have done so besides Raymond; you
know that/as well as I do. He did love me,
but he sa~ d-he still says-that we are too
poor to marry, that we should only drag each
other do~wn, instead of benefiting each other.
That I must sacrifice myself to make a brilliant
match, and he-and he-"
"And he will magnanimously sacrifice him-
self to my fortune," said Ermine, smiling sar-
castically. "It is quite an able programme,
and I congratulate you upon carrying out your
share of it so well. I wonder" (this to her-
self; as she turned and looked out of the win-
dow) "if that man ever spoke the truth in all
his life?"
But meanwhile Margarct's second explosion,
like the first, was quickly drenched in a lach-
rymal shower-bath, and noticing that the sobs
were momently becoming more hysterical, Er-
mine began to think of some mode to allay this
tempest in a teapot.
"Margaret," she said, "if the idea of marry-
ing Mr. Sexton makes you so unhappy, why
not ask your father to break the engage-
ment?"
No answer-only louder sobs, and more
threateningly hysterical signs about the throat.
"I have told Raymond that I can never
marry him," Ermine continued, thinking that
this information might prove comforting. "If
your engagement with Mr. Sexton were broke~i,
you might-"
What Miss Erle might or might not haVe
done can 'only be surmised~ for the consolir~g
suggestiOll was very abruptly cut short.
"I can do no-thing b-but marry Mr. Sax-
ton!" cried Margaret, as vehemently as her
sobs would permit. "Somebody must besa-
sacrificed, and of course I am the one! You
can do as you plc-please, but I hate you
w-worse than anybody in the world, and I

will never, never forgive you for the way you
have treated Raymond!"
"Good Heavens, Margaret I "-began Er-
mine, confounded by the extraordinary logic of
this resentment.
But Masgaret was past listening to any
thing by this time. Violent hysterics set in, ac-
companied by the usual kicking and screaming
symptoms, and Ermine flew to the bell. Her
first energetic peal brought Lena hurrying up.
stairs-for it was not often that her mistress's
bell ranglike this-and; as Margaret was bythis
time very nearly unmanageable, Mrs. ErIe was
summoned. It was surprising how her pres-
ence, the first moment she crossed the thresh-
old, had a sedative effect upon her step.
daughter.1 The screams died away, the kick.
ing subsided, and even the sobs soon became
less convulsive. By the time that Madelon,
the governess, the children, and half a dozen
servants arrived on the scene of action, Miss
Erle had subsided into an unconscious condi-
tion, and was borne away to her own room-
notwithstanding Madelon's unfeeling assur-
rance to the company in general that she was
sure she could walk-without furthefresist.
ance-a beautiful but decidedly heavy piece
of inert flesh and blood.
The train moved away after her-all ex-
cept Mrs. Erle, who, giving a few directions to
illadelon (over which the latter shrugged her
shoulders), came back into Ermine's chamber
and closed the door.
"My patience is almost exhausted with that
girl," she said, sinking down into the chair
which Margaret had vacated. "I scarcely
know whether her folly or her affectation is
most trying. What brought on this scene, Er-
mine?"
Now, Ermine was perfectly well aware that
her mother knew as well as herself what had
brought on the scene, but she had lived long
enough with Mrs. Erle to give the answer which
was expected ~f her.
"Margaret has been talking about her
aversion to marrying Mr. Sexton," she said,
and she worked herself into the state in
which you found her by simply giving way to
her excitement."
"AhI" said Mrs. ErIe, with a world of.
meaning in the single interjection, and then
sue looked full into her daughter's eyes. -
"Was she talking of anybody besides Mr.
Sexton?" she asked, with a slight shade of sig-
nificance.

"Yes," answered Ermine, indifferently.
"She was talking of Raymond."
"What of him ~"
"Indeed, mamma, that is hard to say, for
her complaints were rather obscure and very
inconsistent. She was apparently angry that
Raymond had transferred his attentions from
her to myself; and yet outraged that I had not
accepted them. I did not sce the reason of
it," she concluded with a tired sigh.
"Did you expect reason from a jealous and
very silly woman?'~ asked Mrs. ErIe, con-
temptuously. "I am sure you know Margaret
well enough to be aware how little credit is
due to any thing she may say. She has ac-
cepted Mr. Sexton of her own accord, yet she
gives herself the airs of a martyr, and, because
she has chosen to fancy herself in love with
Raymond, she thinks that she has a fee-simple
right over him. You will be doing him a
grievous injustice, Ermine" (this very earnest-
ly), "if you allow Margarct's jealous folly to
prejudice you in any way against him."
"Margaret's jealous folly, as you term it,
mamma, does not weigh with me in the least;
but what I have seen with my own eyes
and heard with my own ears, I confess that I
believe."
"You mean-?"
"I mean that if Raymond ever loved any-
body besides himself; he loved Margaret, and
that he gave her up-nay, more, he forced her
to engage herself to a man whom she detests-
that he might be free to devote himself to my
fortune."
"Ermine, I am astonished at you! It is in-
comprehensible to me that you should let Mar-
garet's absurd complaints weigh with you for
a moment. There is not one word of truth in
what she asserts concerning Raymond. 1
know lids. With regard to Mr. Sexton, no
doubt she made you believe that she is a victim
to her family, when in reality she is only a
Victim to her own mercenary ambition. ii
should think that by this time you would ap-
preciate her vanity and selfishness sufficiently
to rate her sentiments as they deserve."
"I think I do," said Ermine, quietly.
"And I should think you might knew that
I have no possible reason for representing
matters in any but their true light."
No answer-to this. Ermine was gazing out
of the window at the 'blue sky beyond, and she
did not withdraw her eyes or utter a sylla-
ble.


THE ENCHANTED LAND.                  47

46                       EBB-TIDE.

"While I am on this subject," Mrs. Erie
continued, a little sharply, "I must say a few
words concerning the occurrence of last night.
In the first place, may I ask for an explana-
tion of your fainting? Raymond, of course,
gave none."
"There is very little to give, mamma. I
was excited, and fainted from the reaction-
that is all."
"What excited you!"
"The music first, I presume, and my con-
versation with Raymond afterward."
"And may I beg to know the subject of a
conversation which took you down to the Bat-
tery at eleven o'clock at night?"
"Certainly, if you feel any interest in it."
Then she recounted substantially what she had
told Madelon, all of which, by the same token,
Mrs. Erle had heard before, adding when she
concluded, "I am glad to tell you this, mamma,
because I am anxious that there should be an
end of all expectations that Raymond and I
should ever marry. You may believe me when
I say that there are no possible circumstances
which could bring such a thing to pass.~~
"However sorry I may be to hear this, and
on your account I am sorry," said Mrs. ErIe
-with dignity, "I must beg to correct you on
one point. You speak as if there had been
some plot or plan to marry you to Raymond.
I owe it to myself and to my husband to de-
clare that we have never done more than wish
to see you established in life under the protec-
tion of a man who, notwithstanding the inter-
ested motives which you impute to him, is suf-
ficiently attached to you to bear with your pe-
culiar and most trying disposition. That we
ever formed this wish, you owe to yourself; and
the heartless manner in which you have flirted
-with him."
"Flirted with him - with Raymond I
Mamma, how can you say such a thing, when
you-you alone-have always thrown us to-
gether?"
"Did I throw you together last night?"
asked Mrs. Erie. "You know my rules-you
know how much lam opposed to any thinglike
the f~st manners of the day-yet you wander
off itt midnight with Raymond, and finally
make your appearance, before half a dozen
people, in his arms."
"Mamma!" The poor, much-tried blood
mounted in a torrent over neck and face.
"Consider for a moment-how could I help
it?"

"Not understanding the eccentricities of a
sensitive temperament, that is mor~than I can
answer," said Mrs. Erie, coldly. "if it was
necessary for you to faint after the concert, it
was at least not necessary that you should
have gone down to the Battery to accomplish
it. I confess that I am losing patience with
your fancies and caprices, Ermine," she went
on more sternly; "and, since you seem to have
no regard for what people will say ofjour con-
duct, I must endeavor to have some for you.
If you were engaged to Raymond, the gossips
might hold their tongues. Since you nrc not
engaged to him, I can scarcely imagine how se-
vere the strictures will be on you; and, natu-
rally, also, on me'
Ermine was silent. She knew from long
experience that there was nothing to be said
when her mother took this tqne. Justification
was useless-still more useless any thing like
softening or appeal.
"I know perfectly well where your spirit
of rebellion has been learned," Mrs. Erle went
onin thesam e hard, passionless voice. "Your
guardian has always encouraged you in defy-
ing my wishes, and you think that you will
soon be the legal mistress of your own actions.
But none the less, one thing is certain-so
long as you ~'emain under my control, so long
I shall insist upon your keeping within the
bonds of decorum. I shoi~ld never have al-
lowed your flirtation with Raymoi~d to go to
the shameful length it has done, if I had not
supposed that you meant to marry him. I-Jay-
ing had this warning, I shall certainly not
allow yogi to enter upon another, as you seem
disposed to do."
Still silence. Sometimes-often, in fact-
the only hope of restraining a torrent is to
keep the1~ood-gates resolutely shut. What Er-
mine would have said if she had enclosed her
lips for the passage of even one word, there is
no telling. It was not because she did not
feel, that she was silent. On the contrary,
burning indignation strove for expression, side
by side with that sickening sense of being
wholly misjudged and cruelly misunderstood,
than which earth has no pang more poignant.
But she was resolutely silent. What good
would it do to speak? She had learned from
long and bitter experience thatcher mother and
herself were like two jarring chords in music,-
never by any chance giving forth a note in uni-
son. This realization had weilnigh turned her
child's heart to gall, and it had hardened her

face now into something of a statue's white,
steadfast immobility.
"Understand this," said Mrs. Erie, raising
her voice not more than a shade of a semitone,
but still enough to mark how keenly she was
provoked by the reticence which met her like
a granite wall, "I desire to hear no more of
your romantic, childish nonsense about Alan
ErIe, and I expressly forbid your appearance in
public with him, or taking a~ rides or drives
of the kind which he proposed this morning.
YQu have been already sufficiently talked
about; and it is my duty to conduct you, since
you do not seem capable of conducting your-
self." A pause-then, sharply: "Do you hear
me, Ermine?"
"I hesr you, mamma."
"Do you intend to obey me?"
"Is that question necessary, mamma?
Have I ever disobeyed you when you explicitly
~tated your wishes?"
"Your conduct is indeed most exemplary,"
said Mrs. Erie, bitterly. "You obey my
-wishes in the letter, and make it the business
of your life to violate them in the spirit. My
duty is none the less my duty, however, and I
am determined to give no further sanction to an
intimacy which has already done you nothing
but harm."
She uttered the last words in a tone of de-
cision which left no room for demur, if Er-
mine had been ineilned to make any. But the
girl received this sentence with the same pas-
sive calm which had characterized her manner
all along; and, after waiting for a moment for -
the rejoinder which did not come, Mrs. Erie rose 4
majestically and swept from the room.
Ermine remained motionless - changing
neither feature nor expression-for some time
after the door had closed on -her mother's soft I
draperies. Then something like a shiver of
passion seemed suddenly to pass over and shake I
her from head to foot.
"I comprehend it perfectly," she said, half-
aloud. "It is my punishment for rejecting
Raymond. Ohif they tried to make mc hate a
him, could they do it any better?"       a
She rose from her seat restlessly and paced v
the floor for a minute. It seemed so hard, a
so cruel! She had longed for Alan with such f
heart-sick longing, and~now that he had come, h
she was not allowed to be happy for one day. g
Even her intercourse with him-that joyous C
freedom of manner which it had been so much o
pleasure to indulge-was placed under a con- ri

strain by this new talk of flirtation and love
and marriage. One of her old floods of child-
ish grief came over the poor girl-poor, though
an heiress-as, throwing herself upon her
bed, she buried her face in her hands, sobbing
bitterly.
"0 Alan, dear Alan, if I were only a child,
so that you could come and comfort me!" she
said. "It seems as if my heart will break.
How they all are banded against me-mamma
because I cannot obey her wishes; Margaret,
because I have stood between Raymond and
herself; Madelon, because she is selfishly bent
on her own fortune. If ever there comes to
me a time of desperate strait or extremity, may -
God help mc, for I cannot count upon one
friend among them all!"
Looking back afterward, Ermine remem-
bered this thought, but it is good to believe
and to trust that, in any time of desperate
"strait or extremity," God does help those for
whom mortal help is not.
-4--
CHAPTER VIII. -
THE ENCHANTED LAND.
ERMINE spent the entire morning and the
whole long afternoon in her own room. Of
course, she could have comeforth if she had
chosen-since Mrs. Erie's purpose had been
accomplished when she ended that tender inter-
view with Alan-but it may have been that
the girl was glad enough of the rest which is
doubly sweet after combat or excitement. At
ill events, she did not appear at dinner, and it
was only when twilight was trembling softly
wer the earth that she came down-stairs. The
arge, cool, fragrant house was wholly empty,
md as silent as that enchanted palace o~m which
berlinn laid hiaspell. Ermine wandered through
dl the rooms, finding no trace of huml~ii pres-
nec anywhere. The beauty of the dying May
lay seemed to have tempted all Charleston
broad and every member of the household
ave herself had caught the infection. She -
ras all alone-alone to do what see pleased,
nd go where she pleased, to pace back and
orth, and wander hem~e and there, in luxurious
Illness of motion. She strolled into the
arden and decked herself with rQses, like a
~reek divinity; then came back and sat in the
pen window with "Te~yson" in her lap, not
ending save by snatches, and repeating to her-


48                        EBB-TIDE.

self; whenever her eye rested on the fair scene
beyond, the exquisite "Move eastward, happy
earth." If she and Tennyson had had the
sunset all to themselves, this would have been
vety pleasant; but, unfortunately, there were
numbers of other people privileged to enjoy
the hour, people riding, driving, sauntering
past, bowing tv the pretty face framed in the
window and necessitating a bow in return. It
seemed(to Ermine that everybody whom she
knew went by-everybody except the one for
whom her eyes were watching and her heart
longing. Even Major Hastings rode past, and
uncovered his handsome head-wondering a
good deal at the stiff inclination which was all
he received in acknowledgment. It was just
after this that Ermine rOse. "It is a bore to
sit in the wiiidow and be bowed at," she said,
pettishly; and then she sauntered away toward
the back drawing-room. Twilight, in which it
was impossible to read-
"Labor's brief armistice!
Best, loveliest interlude of dark end liflit
had already gathered here; so, putting down
her volume, she 'went to the piano, lifted its
lid, and, slowly touching "the beautiful 'cold
keys," which gave back lovingly their rich
tones under her hands, began to play the mar-
vellous "Moonlight Sonata."
She played it once-twice-thrice-not so
much because she loved the repetition of its
melody, as because it chanced to suit her mood,
and the tender, passionate chords made an
accompaniment to her thoughts, which never
flowed so smoothly, never so sweetly, as to the
sound of music. She was well on in the third
repetition, playing, as it were, unconsciously,
with her eyes turned on a glimpse of the
"fringes of the faded eve," seen through a vine-
draped window near by, and her mind far
away, when the sound of a distant footstep
caught her ear. Instantly the white hands
stopped short on the ivory keys, she turned,,
her head-the breath suspended on her parted
lips-and listened.
After a moment, her listening was re-
warded. Footsteps crossed the hall, crossed
the front drawing-room, came toward her re-
treat, ,the silken curtains of the arch were
pushed aside, and in the opening there ap-
peared-a dog literally as large as a pony, a
magnificent creature all tawny gold, dashed
with black, whose hair, soft as silk, curled
round him in every direction, and whose large,

bright eyes were full of indescribable beauty
and expression. This formidable visitor en-
tered with the stately tread of a lion, his plumy
tail drooping, his superb head erect, his whole
face-where gentleness and strength were so
marvelously mingled-fullof vivid expectation.
At sight of him, Ermine made one spring from
her music-stool.
"Nix!" she ci~ied, joyfully. "Ohmy dear,
dear old fellow, is it you?"
Nix gave one short, hoarse bark of de-
lighted recognition, and, to attest that it was
indeed he, then rushed full at her, wagging his
tail like an insane dog, and fairly knocking her
into a convenient chair with the weight of the
two monstrous paws which went at once to her
shoulders, while her hands clasped eagerly
round the silken mane that covered his im-
mense throat. It was an affecting embrace,
only Ermine, being much the smaller, had much
the worst of it. She was indeed in rapid course
of suffocation, and Nix's large, red tongue was
licking her face with unmolested delight, when
fortunately a tall gentleman stepped from be-
hind the arch and came to the rescue.
"Nix! you scamp 1-have done! " he
cried in a tone which Nix at once obeyed by
dropping on all-fours and proceeding to make
a comma, of himself.-" Ermine, are you not
almost smothered? The rascal is overpower-
ingly affectionate if you let him be !-No, sir--
you've done embracing enough for once-stand
back!"
"Oh, don't scold him!" said Ermine, re-
covering her breath. "Bless his great, splen-
did, affectionate heart 1-he was so glad to see
mc.-Nix, Nix! Oh, you beauty! "-as Nix
came and laid his broad head in her lap-wag-
ging his tail, meanwhile, in the same frantic
manner-" you are more magnificent than
ever 1-0 Alan, what a grand, sweet face!
Does itnot remind you of Lord Byron's epitaph
on his dog?"
"What! the verses about-
'To mark a friend's remains, these stones arise-
1 never had but one, and here he lies.'
I don't see how that is applicable to Nix-or
to me, either," said Alan, standing by, and
looking tenderly at the hands that were strok-
ing and caressing Nix's silken ears and head.
"Pshaw!" said Ermine, laughing. "That
was not what I meant. Don't you remember
the inscription on the tombstone ?.-Nix, dear
old fellow, I hope it may be many a long day

THE ENCHANTED LAND.                               49
before you need a tombstone, but, if you ever insolence, and courage without feroei~y '-so it
do, those words shall go on it." does 1-Get up, Nix, and make a bow. If ever
"Nix shall be buried at sea, he loves it you have a tombstone, we will certainly
as dearly as I do!" said Nix's master, drawing borrow Boatswain's epitaph for you. Ermine,
a deep armchair forward, and sinking into it isn't it amazing th&amp;tthc rascal knows you after
"Nix, you unruly beggar, come here! Now" all this time?"
-as Nix obeyed-.--" lie down and keep quiet "And he was so young when he went away!
while Miss St. Amand pays you a compliment. Do you remember how furious Margaret was the
No "-...eatching hold of his silken mane, as he day he came in dripping wet, and spoiled her
was springing back to Ermine-" we've had new poplin?"
enough of that. I don't wonder your head is "Don't I indeed! I only brought him this
turned by the sight of her-so is mine, for the afternoon because I knew they would all be
matter of that. But discipline is discipline, out, and I hoped you might be in, Are you
Down, sir, down!" still a prisoner?"
Nix crouched in couchant, leonine fashion "No. I stayed at home of my own ac-
on the floor, but kept his plume-like tail waving cord, partly because I was lazy, and partly
in the aii'~ and his liquid eyes fastened on his because I thought you might come. I can't
master's face. afford to lose any of your society, especially
"Let him alone," said Ermine. "He does since-"
not anuoy me in the least."                  "Especially since what?" asked he, as she
"He annoys me, however," said Alan, suddenly paused.
frankly. "I am jealous of the scamp when But Ermine' had remembered that dreadful
you fondle and caress him so. Not but that I word "flirtation," and the tide of her candor
am fond enough of him myself. We are in- was abruptly stopped. She hesitated, and
separable companions on shipboard-ain't we, blushed in such an unusual manner that, even
Nix ? "-Nix beat his tail assentingly on the in the dusk room, Captain Erie's quick eye de-
floor.-" You've had a splendid bath and a new tested the suffusion.
collar to-day, haven't you, old fellow? That "What is it, little one?" he asked, leaning
was in honor of Miss St. Amand. I brought you forward. "Don't deny that there is something
up to see her because she has a dear, little kind -I see it in your telltale face. Nix and lare
heart, and is not a bit ashamed to recognize ready to receive your confidence, and to guard
old friends, even if they are disreputable fond it sacredly. What is it?"
of the sea."                                 "It is nothing of any importance," said Er-
Here Nix gave a howl, being perfectly well mine, turning her back on the light, as she felt
aware that these r4narks were addressed to herself blushing still more. "I only meant
himself; and thinking that civility required a -that is, I didn't mean-I only said-"
reply.                                       "You only didn't ~ay exactly what you
"Hold your tongue, will you!" said his should have said," interrupted the youngman,
master. "Keep quiet till you're asked to cutting her confused sentences short. "Come,
speak!-Now, Er mine, let us have the epi- Ermine, who is your' best friend in the
taph. Deuce take my memory if I remember world?"
a word of it!"                               "You, Alan." (Without a second's hesi.
"I think the deuce must have taken your station )
memory if you could forget it," said Ermine. "Of course I am-and, being your best
"Let me see !-dear me! I hope I have not friend, isn't it my business to see that you
forgotten it! Don't laugh, Alan-I remember come to no harm, and "-the genial brows
at least that he~i-.the dog, that is-' possessed knitted slightly here-" that nobody dares to
beauty without vanity, strength without inso- trouble you?"
lence, and courage without ferocity.' I also "You absurd boy !-who should trouble
remember that 'This praise which would be me?"
unmeaning flattery above human ashes, is but "Somebody has been troubling, you, how-
a just tribute to the memory of Boatswain, a ever.-We see that plainly, don't we, Nix? "-
dog '-and I think that the description suits Nix growled deeply.-" Ermine, you affirmed
Nix exactly." positively this morning that nobody had been
"'Beautywithout vanity, strength without bullying you. I wonder if you could put
4

I


THE ENCHANTED LAND.                  51

50                       EBB-TIDE.

your hand on your heart and say the same
thing now?"
"Indeed, Alan, I-.--I don't know..-.--Mamma
said something this morning-"
"Ezactly. I'd have felt safe in wagering
any thing that she did. And that something
was about me-was it not?"
"How coud you know?"
"Hew could I help knowing, with her face
to enlighten me this morning, and your face to
enlighten me this afternoon? Come, Ermine,"
-leaning 'luxuriously back and watching her
closely with the limpid, sea-colored eyes-
"make a ~lean breast of it and have done.
You can't hurt me, petite. I care for nobody's
good opinion but yours-and yours, thank
God, I have! As for madame ma tante-I
know of old in what estimation she holds
me."
"She said nothing against you, Alan. I
would not have stood that."
"She might have accused me of every crime
in the, Decalogue, and I shonldhave forgiven
her much sooner than for making you look as
pale as yen do-or rather as you did. Some-
how or other, you've managed to get some
color within the last ten minutes, and I am cu-
rious to know the cause. Who are you blush-
ing about? I am surfeit would never enter
your head to blush about me!"
"I'm not blushing about anybody," said
Ermine, indignantly. "If lam a little flushed,
it is owing to the heat, and to Nix."
"Oh I It is owing to the heat and to
Nix-is ~t? Well I will accept the explana-
tion (to save time), and return to the point
under discussion.. What did ma tanle say
of me?"
Ermine moved restlessly under the half-
laughing but determined eyes, shrugged her
shoulders, and finally said petulantly," Noth-
ing that you will care to hear."
"But I do care to hear," said he, leaning
forward again. "Ermine, don't tantalize so-
what was it?" A pause-then impatiently:
"Good :Ueavens~ child! why should you hesi-
tate? Do you suppose I care for an~ thing she
might say? Of course the longer you wait,
the more terrible I shall think it, and, if you
don't mind, you will make an anti-climax of it
at last."              -
" Who cams about an aitti-climax? I don't
mean to tell you atall."
"Then I ~baU simply have to guess until I
find out. Of course, it must have been some-

thing about you, too, or you would not be so
reluctant to repeat it. Eureka! I have it: she
said I meant to make love to you for your for-
tune!"
"She never even hinted such a thing!"
cried Ermine-and how hotly the blood rushed
over neck and brow again.
"Then what was it, you absurd little
Sphinx? If you don't tell me, I will set Nix on
you, and let him do his worst."
"Alan," said she, tragically~ "I can't tell
you. I cried over it desperately, but I am sure
you would only laugh."
"I should never laugh at any thing you
thought worth crying over, you may be sure of
that!"
"Well then-for one thing, mamma says I
must not ride with you any more.~~
She thought this would be a terrible blow,
and she was rather disappointed when Alan's
only comment was a cool-
"Indeed!"
"Nor walk with you, either."
"Nor talk with me, I presume?"
"Nothing was said abouttalking, but I don't
think we shall be able to do much of it, for she
also says-"
Here the-voice stopped short again, in em-
barrassed silence. Captain ErIe was still
leaning forward, absently caressing his mus-
tache with one sunburnt hand, while his eyes
followed every change of the mobile face be-
fore him. "Well, what is it she also says?"
he asked, dryly, as Ermine paused.
"She says that I flirted with Raymond,"
cried Ermine, with a burst of determined, in-
dignation, "and that-and that I shall not flirt
with you too!"
"How good of her to take such carb of
me!" said he, ironically. "But if ~ou have
a fancy for flirting, Ermine-an amusement
which, by-the-way, I took to be Madelon's and
Margaret's monopoly-I hope you won't hesi-
tate to make use of me."
"I knew you would laugh," said Ermine,
struggling with an inclination to tears, "and
I really think it is very-very unkind of
"lf I laugh, it is because I should like
amazingly to do something else; and that be-
ing impossible, I must find a vent for my feel-
ings some other way," said he. "In short, Er-
mine, the upshot of the whole matter is, that
you and I are to be kept from seeing any
thing whatever of each other,"

"Yes," said Ermine, in a lugubrious tone,
U ~ think that is 'in"
"And do you mean to submit to it?"
"How can I help submitting to it, Alan?
You don't know "-once more a burning blush
spread over her face-" you can't tell what
things have been said to me."
"Yes, I can!" said he, almost fiercely;
and, by Heaven! I wish I had the people,
who said them, hero this minute, Ermine! "-.
his voice changed and softened so suddenly
that she fairly started-" will you go and play
some for me? I must think a minute, and your
music may help me to a decision."
"What do you want to think about?"
asked she, in surprise.
"I w~nt to think how I can best defeat
the kind intentions of these dear friends of
yours," answered he, bitterly. "I am not likely
to sit down quietly and let them have their
way. If I had to walk over a dozen moth-
ers, I would do it without a thought, so I won
my way to you."
"It is hard," said Ermine, while her sensi-
tive lip quivered slightly. "You have been
away so long; and now that you are at
home-"
"Now that I am at home, I'll have what I
want-that is, your society-if I have to fight
for it!"
"I'm not worth fighting for, Alan."
"Let me be judge of that, an't please you!
Now go and play for me."
"What shall I play?" asked the obedient
slave of this marine ~elim I'acha.
"Anything you please. Didn't I hear the
'Moonlight Sonata' as I came in? Play that."
She went to the piano, and, sitting down,
began the beautiful strains for the fourth time.
If any one had chanced to glance in just then,
the dusk room with the twilight gathering in
its deeper corners, and the dying Southern
day, outside, would have made a picture worth
remembering. Through the soft gloaming the
white statues-pedestal~throned......looked al-
most eerie in their cold, motionless grace; one
large, gleaming mirror caught the orange sun-
set, and held it, as it were, imprisoned in its
depths; through the vine-draped western win-
dow a flush of rosy light fell over Nix, as he
lay in leonine grandeur on the velvet carpet, ~
prone at his master's feet, while of this master s
himself; the light only caught the white polish ~
of his brow, and the hand that still stroked r
absently the long, silken mustache. The I

piano was entirely in shade, but its tones--
now deep and rich as an organ, now clear as a
silver bell-swelled out softly on the flower-
scented air, the ' subtle harmonies melting
into that composition which had for its in-
spiration the sole attachment of the great
master's life, and through which there seems
quivering, like moonlight on mountain lake, all
that is most exquisite, most tender in passion,
all that is most apart from and above the love
of the senses.
"Whom God loveth not, they love not
music!" Oh, poor, darkened minds !-poor,
dust-steeped souls !-poor, earth-bound spirits!
Do they never feel that there are heights-
even on earth-forever beyond them? Do
they never yearn to soar aloft-were it only
for once-into the realm of light and life which
music alone can lend to the spirit still bound
prison-house o
within its            f clay?  "Having
ears," do they always "hear not" the echo of
those marvellous strains which speak to the
soul of man as no other mortal power has ever
done, can ever do? Do they never long for
one moment in the enchanted palace of har-
mony and tone, the glowing world of feeling
and sensation, shut from their obtuse faculties
forever? Do they never lift their heavy eyes
toward the' golden cloud-heights far beyond
them, and wistfully sigh for one faint glimmer
of the influence which eludes all echo in the
language of earth, because in it is more of
heaven than in any oth moral left us of
the time when angels wab~~. ~ with the first man,
and when the two in paradise may have
hearkened in the purple dawn and rosy twi-
light to the silver harmonies of the choirs of
heaven?"
When the last echoes of the sonata died
away, the twilight had deepened like a trans.
parent veil through which there still lingered
the last kiss that the sun had left to sweeten
his brief parting from the fair, entrancing
?arth. A soft, wistful sigh came to Ermine~s
?ar, as the last chord sounded under her lin-
;ering touch. Then there was silence.
"Alan," she said after a while, gently,
'Alan-has the music put you to sleep?"
For answer Alan rose and, crossed the room
o her side. That electric current of sympathy
rhich is one of the strangest things about our
range organism~whetherphysical or mental,
rho can say?-made her conscious of some
cood on which her question had jarred, and
:ept her from saying any thing more, 'even


52                        EBB-TIDE.                                                                  FLOOD-TIDE.

when the tall figure came and stood over her,
leaning slightly against the carved instrument.
Nix raisedhis great head lazily, and looked
after his master; but he did not feel inclined
to move, and the twilight baffled even his keen
eyes. He could see nothing more than two
shadowy forms-two suggestive outlines of
manhood and womanhood - at the piano,
though his quick ear caught the murmur of a
low, well-known voice. He listened for a me.
ment, but the subject under discussion did not
interest him. He yawned, dropped his mas-
sive head again, and dreamed probably of the
.last bone he had buried, while Captain Erle
was saying:
"To sleep, indeed! Could such music put
anybody but Nix to sleep? You never played
better in your life. I wonder what magic en-
tered into your fingers, you little white witch!
I thought of the 'Lorely,' and all the songs of
the sirens. If I did not go to sleep, I dreamed
a dream better than Tennyson's 'Dream of
Fair Women '-for mine was only of one fairl
woman. Shall I tell it to you?"
"Yes," answered the low voice, like music
out of the fragrant ~iusk. "Only Iwarn youthat
I shall expect something very exquisite, since
it was inspired by the 'Moonlight Sonata."'
"I think it was very exquisite-at least it
seemed so to inc. On second thoughts, how-
ever, I won't tell it to you-that is, not just
yet. We have business to settle first, you
know. I was to find a way out of our dilem-
ma, was Inot?"
"Of course you were. Didn't you send
me to the piano as an excuse to think? And
then you tell me that you only dreamed."
"Sometimes our best thoughts come from
dreams, mignonne. God only knows where
mine has come from; but I have it, and I
mean to hold it fast. Little one, look at me!"
"How can I look at you, Alan, when it is
so dark?"
"Why, I see you perfectly-or is it be-
cause I see you always-absent as well as
near? I am inclined to think that your best
portrait will be found on my heart, after I am
dead, Ermine."
"Like 'Calais' on that of your Queen
Mary? What a fanciful idea, Alan!"
"Love teaches us fanciful ideas. Who
was it said that once in his life every man is a
poet? There~ is more truth in that than the
world wots. ~Little one, gentle one, sweetest
one of all the earth, suppose I tell you that

there is but one way out of the difficulties
which have been placed around us ?-suppose
I ask you if you love me well enough to place
your hand in mine and let me claim you as my
own before all the world?"
"Alan!"
What a sudden, low cry it was--smiting'
almost painfully on the yielding air, and mak-
ing Nix raise his head with a deep, bass growl [
It reminded Alan of the cry which she had
given when he bade her good-by to go upon
his first long voyage. Then he had taken her
in his arms and comforted her with softest
kisses. Now he only knelt (not as a supplant,
but simply to placehimself on a level with her),
and, bending his head, laid his lips on the tw~
little hands that lay like fragments of rare
statuary in her lap.
"Ermine," he said-and the sweet syllables
of her name had never sounded so sweet be-
fore-" have I startled you? Child, don't you
see how it has been? I did not mean to ask
you to marry me, because I had no mind to be
branded as a fortune-hunter, and I thought you
would in time love some man who might be
able to match you in worldly advantages. But
after all, this is cowardice. Shall I make no
effort to win the prize and pearl of my life, be-
cause people for whom I care nothing may
call me mercenary? If I had feared that yow
might think so, I should have been silent for.
ever But I know better than that. Even if
you cannot give yourself to me so that no
human power can ever come between us again,
I know you will do me the justice to believe&amp;
that I love you so well, so dearly, that every
other gift of earth seems worse than useless~
without you!"
"0 Alan-Alan!"
A different cry, this time-a soft, glad utter-
ance of happiness, so pure, so tender, that the
angels of God might have looked on and blessed
it with a smile!
"Will you come to me, my Ermine, my
heart's darling?" asked the low voice, infi.
nitely gentle in its cadence. "If you say' Yes,'
nobody in the world shall ever harm or trouble
my spotless lily again!"
She looked up at him with something al-
most infantine in the sweet, pathetic eyes
shining out of her white face in the soft gloom.
"Do you really want m~, Alan?"
"Has there ever been a day or an hour
when I did not want you, my darling, my be-
loved?

"You are sure that it is not only because
you are sorry for me, as you were sorry once
long ago?"
"I am very, very sure, my pet. Ah, Er-
m~c" (with a thrill of passion), "don't hold
back like a pale shadow, and tempt me to take
you whether you will or no! Come to me
say that you are mine!"
Then the hands which he had kissed, but,
like a chivalric gentleman, left otherwise un-
touched, came to him with a quaint min-
gling of child.like simplicity and womanly dig-
nity.
"Here I am, Alan," said the tender, loyal
voice. "Take me if you choose: I am yours."
Then he took her-safe into his arms, close
to his faithful heart. In the fragrant May
gloaming, they forgot the past or the future,
and, living only in the magic present, passed,
like happy childrenthrough the gates of Fancy
into that fair, enchanted land where Love
dwells forever as an immortal.
So they stood, and so they spoke not, for
many minutes. Then Ermine lifted her face-
her soft tones breaking on the air with a ca-
dence like that passionate thrill which we
catch in the words of the sweet Ital~n maiden
who had "no cunning to be strange.'
"Alan dear, was this your dreaiy(?"
The last, faint flush of sunse~how loath
the day is to give place to night,~Kin the sweet
May-time-fell over the shadowy picture which
they made, standing together-the delicate,
white-robed woman clasped close in the em-
brace of her stately lover, her l~ead thrown
back a little, and her face upturned to catch
the light in his eyes as she asked her ques-
tion.
"You want to know about my dream?"
he asked, smiling. "Ahbest-beloved, there is
now, as ever, but one fair woman for me."
"And she?"
He bent and kissed the eager lips passion-
nt~ly, before he answered-
"She is here."
-4---
CHAPTER IX.
FLOOD-TIDE.
a good thing it is to be happy [
(IC course it is a pleasant thing-everybody
knows that-but I contend that it is also a
good thincr; that it warms our hearts, expands

our minds, makes us more gentle, more tender,
more full of charity to men, more full of love
to God! In short, it is to human nature what
the blessed sunshine is to the plants of the
earth-warming, fructifying, bringing forth
fair flowers and sweet fruits even from barren
ground, until we are almost tempted to ask
why it is that so little of such an influence
should be found.in th~world-
"Which God created very good,
And very mournful we I"
Only in this, as in many things else, it is
easier to ask than to answer. In this, as in
many things else, faith speaks to us of the
gracious intentions of a kind Father, and sight
shows us the perverse rebellion of disobedient
children. We were meant to be happy--
every thing goes to prove that-and we have
to thank each other chiefly and primarily for
the pangs and tears and bitter sufferings
which frustrate that intention.
Sometimes, however, we are happy-su-
premely and wholly happy-in spite of all
that can be done by friends or enemies to re-
duce us to our normal warfare with Fate.
Sometimes the sunshine comes upon us with
a rush, and oh, how we bask in it, how we
drink deeply of its tropical warmth; and,
even *hen the clouds gather again, how we
feel that what we have enjoyed once is ours
forever! So it was with Ermine now. Born
of the South, and in the South, she was
Southern in every fibre of her being, and
every tissue of her organization. To say this,
is to say that she- lived a whole life of sensa-
tion where one of colder temperament would
have felt scarcely a throb stirring the even
current of existence. It was enough to look
at her slight, nervous pky8ique, her pale, in-
tense face, her dark, unconsciously passionate
eyes, to understand that, for once, Disraeli
was right when he wrote-"alI is race: there
is no other truth," and that the wonderful
Dr. Sarona was equally-right when he added-
"all is temperament: without understanding
it, there is no arriving at truth."
Race and temperament had both conspired
to make the faithful, tender, passionate creat-
ure, at whose feet the flood-tide of perfect
happiness flowed now. This story-being
simply the story ef her life-has little to do
with others, save iii their effect upon this life;
therefore it will not pause to tell how the
storm of family indignation burst on the heads
of the lovers, who had dared to bring their

FLOOD-TIDE.


54'                        EBB-TIDE.                                                                   FLOOD-TIDE.                        55

tendresse to an open engagement. If either
of them had regarded this tempest, it might
prove worth while to devote a little space to
what was said, by whom, and how, and when,
and where. But in truth they did not mind it
in the least. The absorbing preoccupation of
passion was upon them, and thhy heeded too
little, perhaps, the bitter storm around them.
No one had a right to say them Nay, and for
simple disapproval they cared nothing. The
whole course of their love had consisted in
braving this disapprovall, until it had assumed
the bearing of a settled and unalterable fact-
somewhat disagreeable, it is true, and, if pos-
sible, to be ignored. They did ignore it. Oh,
how easy it is to let any and every untoward
circumstance pass by like the wind, when one
is happy! When one has an inner refuge of
calm, vexations do not ruffle, and even disap-
pointments can be borne with sublime philos-
ophy! On high moral and social grounds,
Mrs. Erie took her position, and absolutely
refused her consent to the engagement; but
then (as no one knew better than herself) her
consent was a mere matter of form, her hus-
band's will having denied her even the shadow
of authority over her daughter. She often
waxed pathetic over this "posthumous in-
justice and wrong;" but the probabilities are
that the dead St. Amand knew very well
what he was about, and that Ermine's life
would not have been gladdened by even its
one gleam of sunshine if her mother could
have prevented it.
prevent it, however, she could not-ex~ept
thus far. When Alan came, like the thorough-
bred gentleman which Nature had made him,
to ask her consent to her daughter's engage-
ment, she coldly reminded him that her con-
sent was not of any importance, since Ermine's
self and Ermine's fortune were quite indepen-
dent of her control. Said she, with a keen
bitterness which he never forgot:
"It is to Colonel Vivicux-my daughter's
guardian-not to myself, that you should
apply. I must refer you, to him, and I can
only speak as his mpresentx4ive to a limited
extent, when I say that, although I cannot for-
bid, I must decline to sanction the engagement
into which Mademoiselle St. Amand has seenfit
to enter. Apart from my personal regard for
yourself, I consider it a very unadvisable and
very rn-judged affair. It is my duty, there-
fore, to beg that no steps may be taken
toward making the engagement public, until

Colonel Yivieux's consent has been formally
obtained."
Answered Captain Erie with unusual but
(all things considered) scarcely unnatural kau-
teus-: "You may be sure, madame, that your
wishes shall be observed-would, indeed, have
been observed even if you had not expressed
them. Neither Ermine nor myself is anxious
to make our engagement public, and I had no
intention of doing other then applying to her
guardian for his consent. In coming to ask
your approval, it seems that I have made a
mistake-but I cannot regret it. I recog-
nized-I still recognize-a higher than legal
right which you possess in your daughter's
happiness. Therefore I ventured to ask your
sanction on the only way in which this happi.
ness can be secured."
"My daughter knows my wishes with re-
gard to her," said Mrs. Erle, icily. "She does
not recognize 'the higher than legal right'
of which you are kind enough to speak, and
therefore I may be pardoned if I waive it."
Alan looked steadily into the handsome
face confronting him, and it seemed to his
gaze at that moment as if no human counte-
nance could possibly have been more repulsive
or more unlovely.
"Madame," he said, "I do not need for
you to tell me how unworthy you consider me
of your daughter-and," he added, half
proudly, "I know as well as you do that I am
unworthy of her. But, one thing, at least, I
thank God that I can give her in abundant
measure-that is, love."
It is likely that Mrs. Erle felt the rebuke
as keenly as he meant that she should. Yet
no outward sign betrayed this fact, save only
the stinging shaft which she sent back in
return.
"As I have already remarked, Captain
Erie, the onerous responsibility of the guar-
dianship of Ermine does not' rest in my hands;
but I think it right to warn you that Colonel
Vivicux is an exceedingly practical person,
andthat he may not think the boundless love
which you are good enough to offer an exact
equivalent for the 'material advantages' which
you would gain by an alliance with his ward."
Can anybody offer an insult as neatly and
effectually as a woman of the world, when she
chooses to try? It is really almost edifying to
mark with what perfect &amp;rt she knows how,
and when, and where, to plant a sting which
cannot be extracted by any degree of mortal

skill. In the present instance, Alan had sensi
enough to restrain himself, and not to own, ix
vulgar parlance, that the cap fitted, by putting
it on. When he could speak-which was noi
by any means immediately-he answered
coldly, but quietly enough:
"Allow me to tell you, madame-what]
shall tell Colonel Vivicux, when I have the
pleasure of seeing him-tlxnt, in asking Ermine
to marry me, I do not propose that all the
'material advantages' shall be on her side.
That she is unfortunately rich, I know; but-
although I am at present a poor mau-.--I, too,
have sanguine hopes of wealth. According to
my present expectations (by detailing which I
could not hope to interest you), I am sure that
my next voyage will go far to make mc inde-
pendent of any fortune-be it large or small-
which Ermine may possess."
"In other words, you propose that my
daughter shall waste the best years of her
youth in an aimless engagement, while you-
excuse me if the truth sounds rude 1-are pur.
suing some visionaryseheme of wealth on the
other side of the globe?"
"Not visionary, if you will excuse me, in
turn. I cannot think that details of maritime
enterprise could be interesting, or even intelh.
gible to a lady, or I should endeavor to prove~
to you-as I hope to prove to Colonel Yivieux
-that my expectations rest on a very sure
bafis. At all events, you may be sure that I
shall not press the question of marriage on
Ermine, until I can offer her something besides
an empty name, and the love which-es you
are kind enough to remind me-contrasts but
poorly with the wealth which she will bring to
her husband."
With this assurance-spoken in a tone
which it was impossible to doubt-Mrs. Erle
was certainly justified in thinking that she had
gained an advantage which might prove of
very solid importance and benefit. After this,
she felt that it was wisest to succumb a little
to the inevitable, to com$eal a slight acknowl-
edgment of the engagement, to patch up a
truce, with a perfect understanding on both
sides of it~ hollowness.
But harder evdn to bear than the lady's
refined sarcasm were the significant comments
of Mr. Erie and Raymond. A man cannot well
knock another man down, for smiling in very
cynical fashion and saying, "My dear fellow,
you certainly have wonderful luck-allow me
to congratulate you! "-but he can at least

feel very much inclined to do so. In truth,
nothing tried Alan'spatience more sorely than
the consciousness that his uncle and brother
measured him by their own standard-as
I everybody more or less does in this world-
and considered simply that he had been more
lucky or more far-seeing than themselves.
"Upon my word, my dear boy," said his
uncle, smiling benignly, "your quixotism in
resigning your mother's fortune is very prettily
rewarded-quite like a moral story, indeed.
Having no particular interest in Ermine's
heiress.ship, I don't know the exact figure of
her fortune; but I thjnk I am justified in
assuring you that it will reach a very handsome
amount-very handsome indeed! I take it
for granted that you will retire from the-nh.-
sea immediately."
"On the contrary, sir, I expect to go to
sea again within a month," answered Alan,
quite brusquely.
He was too proud and too worldly-wise both,
to attempt any disclaimer of interested mo-
tives to men like these. There are people in the
world who arc honestly incredulous of any thing
more than what they find in themselves. These
people yield you a sort of reluctant admiration
while they think you a mercenary scoundrel;
but, if you disclaim the scoundrelism or the
mercenary intentions, they change their minds
only just sufficiently to consider you a hypo-
crite. All the eloquence of all the angels,
archangels, thrones, nominations, and powers,
could not have convinced a singIe-~agniber of
the Erie family that Alan sought Ermine sim-
ply for herself and the pure, s~eet womanhood
which God had given her. So, the young sailor
held his peace, and wasted not even a word
on them. The misconception hurt him, of
course-does misconception ever no~ hurt ?-
but be was enough of a philosopher to take it
for what it was worth. Or, no-he was not
enough a phfl~~sopher to do that. He thought
he did, but h~was mistaken. If ha had rated
it at its true value, he would never have let it
influence him even to the degree of making
the resolve which he had opposed to Mrs. Erle's
barbed arrows. If be had done what was
wise, he would have taken the gift which For.
tune had bestowed; he would have regarded
the tender, loving, human heart mere than the
dross of earth which went with it; he would
have sacrificed his own pride to secure the
happiness of the woman ho had trusted all
to him. But l~e did not is e let his


EBB-TIDE.                                                                  FLOOD-TIDE.                      57

opportunity pass, and Fate seldom offers twice
a chance which has been once neglected.
There are few of us who have not learned from
bitter experience that-
"We must take the current when it serves,
Or lose our ventures."
Delay a day, delay even an hour, let the ebb
once come, and not even Shakespeare ever said
a truer truth than that the voyage of our lives
will be for aye
"Bound In shallows and In miseries."
But the ebb had not come in the lives of
the two of whom this story speaks. Just
now that "tide in the affairs of men, which,
taken at the flood, leads on to fortune," rolled
its bright waves to their feet. If they had
embarked-Ah, well! let the future tell its
own story. We deal simply with the present.
And how bright the present was! Not
even Romeo and Juliet telling over the poetry
of their immortal love, "in the land where
love most lovely seems," were ever more rapt
in golden enchantment than these two, in the
spring-tide of that happiness like unto no
other happiness of earth. Any one who has
ever known any thing of the sensitive, artistic
temperament-the temperament so closely
allied to genius that we can scarcely dissociate
one from the other-may perhaps imagine (for
words of common prose can never tell) what
this period of her life was to Ermine. She
was in a dream somewhat like the trance into
which she might have fallen over the "Wal-
purgis Night," or the Madonna di San Sisto;
only those states of passionate feeling would
have been but types of the great love which
came to her. now, even as this love was again
but a type of the eternal Love toward which
our earth-weighed eyes are rarely Ufted.
Madelon regarded her cousin during this
time with the cool, calm, scientific curiosity of
a person to whom such extravagance was ut-
terly incomprehensible, and (but for the testi-,
mony of sight) utterly incredible.
"I try my best to understand you, Ermine,"
she said, a little plaintively one day1 "but I
can't? Are you really so happy as you seem?
It is the most extraordinary thing to me that
you should be! And, if you are happy, where
on earth are your rational grounds for it?"
Ermine laughed-a soft, sweet ripple, com-
mon to her lips of late.
"What do yott call rational grounds?" she
asked.

The other shrugged her shoulders in the
significant Gallic fashion which she possessed
to perfection.
"Something more than fine abstractions,
you may be sure. Excuse me if I speak
plainly; but indeed I am so very curious, and
if you will only tell me what you find in Alan
Erie to elevate you to the seventh heaven at
the mere proposal of bestowing all your wealth,
and beauty~and talents on him, I shall be con-
tented. I can't bear to be puzzled, and this
does puzzle me. He really seems to me one of
the most commonplace men in existence."
"You know nothing about him, Made-
Ion."
"I am not in love with him, my dear-
thank Heaven for it 1-but I fancy I know him
all the better 9U that account.' He is moder-
ately good-looking-but so are hundreds of
other mcix He is moderately clever-but so
are dozens at least of others. He is a good
sailor, no doubt-but that does not concern
you. He is sufficiently amiable and kind-
hearted to let that abominable dog of his break
other people's vases-but I really don't see the
virtue of tkat. Now, tell me, if you can, what
else he is?"
"Indeed, Madelon, if I talked forever, I
could not make you understand any better than
you do now, what he is."
"Why not? Am I so stupid, or are his
virtues so exalted?"
"Neither-as you well know. But he is
simply Alan, and that is the end of the matter.
His character is written on his face, for all to
read; if you have not read it there, you
would not be likely to read it any better inmy
words."
"But, Ermine-"
"Well, Madelon?"
".Dotry to tell me what you see in him.
He is not like you in the least-though you
sire both fond of dabbling in paints. What
is his spell ?-what is his charm? It can't be
only because he was kind to you when you
were a child 1"
"No," said Ermine, "of course it is not,
that. If he had been a different person, grat-
itude would have stopped short at gratitude,
and never gone on to love. I can't tell you why
it is that every thing he 4~oes is pleasant to me,
every thing he says, music to my ears; but so
it is. You are right in saying that we are not
alike; but I suppose we differ in order to cor.
respond. At least I am sure there is al.

ways harmony with us-we never differ to
jar."
"In other words, you love him."
"Yes, I love him till I tremble. I am so
happy that I would not care if the world ended
to-night; for I know I can never be more
happy, and fear I may be less."
"Mba Dieu I"
Madelon's astonishment culminated in this
exclamation. She looked at her cousin several
minutes without speaking-then shook her
head with the air of one who says, "I give
it up."
"For the mere novelty of the thing, I be-
lieve I will cultivate a grande passion!" said
she, meditatively. "I wonder if any man in
the world could ever make a fool of me! I
don't mcl~n that you are a fool, Ermine-I
don't pretend to decide that point. I only
mean that I should be, if I ever fell in love.
And when, pray, is the contract of marriage
to be formally made out-Ermine H6l~ne St.
Amand, of the island of Martinique, and Alan
Erie, of-what shall I say, the good city of
Charleston, or the good ship Adventure?"
"The good ship Adventure always, if you
have no objection," said a voice behind the
two girls-a voice which made Ermine start
and turn, with light flashing to her eyes, and
color to her cheeks.
Alan stood in the outer door-tall, hand-
some, stately-seeming to bring a breath of
the fragrant outer world with him, in his
smile, or in the rose in his button-hole--it was
hard to say which. He looked much more
like a cavalier than a sailor, for he wore
riding-gloves and spurs; but the limpid eyes
had a gleam of amusement in their sea-colored
depths, as he lazily answered Madelon's glance
of interrogative surprise,
"Are you wondering where I caine from,
Miss Lautrec? Ask Ermine, and she will tell
you that I sometimes riae out of the floor, and
then again, vanish in a cloud of sulphur. No-
body can talk of me with impunity-I always
appear on the scene in time to say a good
word for myself."
"Then," said Madelon, very dryly, "I shall
be careful how I talk of you hereafter. I as-
sure you it is by no means a common or
favorite amusement of mine to canvas either
your character or your local habitation. I
only spoke of you by chance a minute ago."
He raised his eyebrows a little-so much
malicious meaning quivering around his lips,

that she knew in a minute that he had either
overheard or guessed at more than her closing
remark.
"Indeed I'm sorry for that," said he, com-
ing forward and sitting down by her. "I was
in hopes you had been telling Ermine what a
nonpareil she had secured.~ Your good opinion
would be worth having, because I am inclined
to think that you don't give it very often."
"You are perfectly right in that."
"I wonder if I could not secure itpas-c1~-oit
de conqu~te? I've a mind to try while Ermine
changes her dress!"
"Change my dress! What for, Alan?"
"For Mignonne, who is at the door. I did
not send you word that I was coming, because
I knew from experience how quickly yoas can
put on a habit."
"I shall not be ten minutes," said she-..
and was out of the room as lightly and as
swiftly as a bird.
In the course of the next half-hour she
came down-looking two degrees more slender
than when she had gone up, in consequence
of being robed in close-fitting black, which
showed every line of her figure to the best
advantage. After all, there is no possible cos-
tume in which a pretty woman looks prettier
thun in the dear, well-known habit, the fashion
of which variety not through many genera-
tions. Barring the detestable high hat (which
is as ugly as any and every other fashion that
ever came from England), it is1the most grace-
ful and most universally becoming costume
that ever was invented. Ermine's artist eye
and French taste prevented her disfiguring her
toilet with this monstrosity of a head-gear.
On the contrary, she wore a soft, low-crowned
felt, one side of which was looped with' an
aigrette of cut steel, while an ostrich-plume
swept entirely around the other. "You look
like a pretty little Spanish contrabanda"
Alan had said, Iaugbin~,' when she flrs5 male
her appearance in this;' but he confessed that
a more bewitching ckapean never was invented,
and Ermine was doubly fond of wearing what
had met with such unqualified approval from
him.
"Ready, Alan?" she asked, pausing in
the hall to draw on her gauntlets, and glance
int&amp; the sitting-room where Alan and Madelon
were still t~e-d4~te.
"Ready? certainly," answered Alan, rising,
and coming forward. Then, after making his
adieux to Madden, they went out together.

EBB-TIDE.


58       ~EBB-TID~E

Before the door, a groom was standing with
two animals-a graceful, thorough-bred bay
mare, and a well-built horse of the color
known as chestnut-sorrel-while Nix lay on
guard beside them, not having been allowed
to cross the threshold, because his ever-waving
tail had, a few days before, swept ~ rare
r marble vase from its pedestal.
What a comfort it is when a man knows
how to put a woman on horseback! Alan
knew perfectly. He held out his hand, Ermine
placed one daintily-booted foot in it, gave one
elastic spring, and was in the saddle as se-
curely as Di Vernon; the modus ope~-andi on
the gentleman's part reminding one somewhat
of "Young Lochinvar," who, according to the
ballad, must have been an accomplished pro-
ficient in this rare art:
"One touch to her hand, and one word to her ear,
When they reached the hall-door, and the charger
stood near;
So light to the croup the fair lady he swung,
So light to the saddle before her he sprung.
'She Is won I We are gone o'er buab, bank, and
scaur-
They'll have deet steeds that follow,' quoth young
Lochlnvar~'
It would not have required very fleet steeds,
however, to follow this pair as they rode down
the street, escorted by Nix, and followed by
the admiring gaze of the groom, and one. small
boy who paused and looked, and looked and
paused again, while he balanced a tray on his
head. Madelon, too, looked over the blind,
with a cynical smile curling her scarlet lip.
"As happy as a couple of children or a
couple of fools!" said she to herself. "Grace
d Dieu 1 what incomprehensible absurdity-
on Ermine's side at least! Of course, he is
doing amazingly well for himself; and, no
doubt, he finds it pleasant enough to make a
fool of her. Would 1-could I-shall I-ever
fall into a like plight? Bah I not I-Nature
left the troublesome organ called a heart out of
my composition, and hearty thanks I owe her
for it How many men would have liked to
amuse themselves with me if I had only been
of the proper impressionable material! As it
was, I think I may flatter myself with having
turned the tables on most of them! After all,
if I were rich like Ermin~-pshaw! if I were, I
should find a better mate than the captain of a
trading-vessel, let him be ever so agreeable,
ever so handsome, and I must coufess that he.
is both. How well he rides, for a sail -
There-they are gone. Well" (yaw ng),

"where on earth is my novel? That trouble.-
some man had it, and~of course" (suddenly
spying it out and taking it up) "it smells of
horses and cigars! What horrid creatures
men are !-and yet they certainly give a spice
to life! Even when one don't care for them,
one can't well do without them-at least, as
material for amusement."
CHAPTER N.
"LOVE MATH SET oun DAYS IN MUSIC TO THH
SELF-SAME AIR."
MEANWHILE, Ermine and Alan, having left
the city behind, were riding farther and farther
into the lovely, flower-scented country, with
the dying glory of the June day all around
them. They were so happy-and every thing
~emed to conspire to give this happiness such
a faIr and gracious framework! Somebody
says that Nature apparently takes pleasure in
surrounding young lovers with brightness; and
that Fate, otherwise a stern task-mistress,
finds delight in casting their lines in pleasant
places. Certainly it was the case, for a time
at least, with these. The sweet idyl of their
love flowed all the more brightly in that it was
reflected from every bright scene around them;
and the dumb face of Earth seemed in this
happy summer-time, this glorious June, to be
wreathed with gladness in their honor. As
they rode they talked, and talking smiled-
not so much because their words were other
than commonplace, as becausethey had what
George Eliot calls "the ineffable sense of
youth in common.~~
"What were you saying to Madelon?"
asked Ermine, after a while. "She is so pretty.
and can be so charming when she likes, that
I felt half inclined to be jealous when I came
down-stairs an~d saw your confidential-looking
le'te-d -tile."
"She is pretty," said Alan, coolly, "and I
suppose she can be charming when she likes
-a woman with that kind of eyes usually can
-but she does not often like, so far as I am
concerned. If she were a princess, she could
not hold herself more haughtily aloof," he went
on, with a slight laugh. "I suppose it is on
account of the marine taintupon me. Ermine,
my darling, you are a brave woman to make
up your mind to marry a sea-captain!"
"I did not need to make up my mind,~~

58

'I

"LQV HATH SET OUR DAYS IN MUSIC TO THE SELF-SAME AIR." 59~
said Ermine, candidly. "I was very glad to least, if I had not thought so, I should nothave~
take you, sea-captain or no sea-captain. In- asked her something that I did ask her this.
deed," she added~ with a little sigh of compune. afternoon."
tion, "I am afraid I should take you all the Ermine looked up at hini a little curiously..
same, if you were a pirate, or any thing else "Something that you asked Madelon, Alan?"
disreputable." "Yes," he answered, smiling. "Could you
"I am sure I should find more favor in the possibly guess what it was? No! I am sure
eyes of your cousin in that ease," said he. you could not, so I must tell you. I asked
"We became rather confidential during your her to be a friend to you while I am gone."
absence, and she was good enough to tell m~ Ermine's lips sprang apart in her surprise;,
that the chief reason why she had never liked her eyes opened on him, large and startled.
me was that my moral sense was too strong. "Alan! what do you mean?"
'I like a man who would walk to his end over "Nothing to look so scared about, my pet,"
any thing,' she said; and by Jove! skn looked answered Alan, half laughing. "You know, as~
amazingly as if she would not much mind do. well as I do, that every member of the family
ing it herself!" is opposed, either directly or indirectly, to our
"You must not judge Madelon by her engagement, with the single exception of Mad-
words," said Ermine. "I never knew any one elon. She has no interest td serve in the
who talked more recklessly; but I am sure she matter, one way or another; so I begged hei~
does not mean a tenth part of what she to stand by you when I shall be far away."
says.                                        Ermine choked back a rush of salt tears,
"I am not by any means so sure," said and pulled Mignonne's rein nervously, as she
Alan, skeptically. "Where there is so much managed to say
smoke, there must be some fire, even if it only "That was quite unnecessary, Alan. Mad-
smoulders; and I am inclined to think that a don has always been a good friend to me.
smouldering fire is sometimes worse than a But she is selfish. Almost everybody is, I be-
blaze. I have always told you that there is gin to think," she added, mournfully.
dangerous material in that girl, and 17 never "Of course she is selfish," said Alan, quietly.
felt more sure of it than to-day." "As you remark, almost everybody is; but
"What did you say when she accused her selfishness can't possibly clash with her
you of having too strong a moral sense?" love for you. I considered that point. Do you
"What could I say but that if I had been suppose I should have asked her to stand by
aware of the reward in view, I should cer- you if it had been her interest to stand against.
thinly early in life have turned highwayman or you?"
forger?"                                     "o Alan!"
"And then?"                               "What is the matter?  Do you think 1
"She shrugged her shoulders aad said that have taken a leaf out of Balzac and Sue? Stop
she had no fancy for vulgar villany. 'Crime a moment and ask yourself, would you trust
for the mere sake of crime is not at all attrac- Madelon's friendship, if Madelon's interest were
tive to me,' ahe explained 'but when a man opposed to yours?"
commits a great crime to secure some great Ermine was about to say, 'Of course I
end-' 'You are kind enough to approve of it,' would,' when a sudden remembrance of Made-
I suggested as she paused. 'I cannot help ad- lon's own words came to check her. She rec-.
miring it, at least,' she said, 'provided always elected how her cousin had bade her take
that he is subtle, and daring, and. ready, if warningthat, if ever their interests clashed, she
the worst comes to the worst, to face the con- (Mad~lon) would not be the one to give way;
sequences of his act.'" so, after a moment, she replied:
"Nice moral sentiments for a young lady," "Perhaps not, .AIan-I can't tell. But one
said Ermine, more amused than shocked, for thing is certain: liadelon's interest is not
she knew Madelon too well. "Poor girl! her likely to clash with mine, since~ you arc not.
head has been turned with Eugene Sue and likely to fall in love with her, and" (half-laugh-
George Sand. Don't let such nonsense preju.. ing) "lam sure she would not marry you if yin'
dice you against her, Alan. She really has a did."
very kind heart."                            "She is not likely to have the chance,"
"I suppose she has," said Alan. "At said Alan, philosophically. "But all the same,


00                                 EBB-TIDE.
she promised me to stand by you. 'Through
thick, and thin?' I asked. 'Yes,' she an-
swered, 'through thick and thin.' Then she
gave me her hand on it; and b~r Jove! Ermine,
it is a wonderfully pretty one!"
"Of course itis a pretty one," said Ermine,
smiling, yet pondering a little in her own mind
on the difference between men and women.
Could she, by any possibility speak in that
tone of the hand, or foot, or mustache, or any
thing else whatever, belonging to any other
man? Her masculine world was as narrow as
Eve's. This Adam was all she saw or knew;
all other men were to her as if they had not
been. But Alan had not the leastobjection to
clasping Madelon's white hand, and gazing
into Madelon's dark eyes, appreciating both
the one and the other as much as if there had
been no Ermine in the world. Did this curious
fact come of "man's love" being of man's
life a thing apart, she wondered; and, so
wondering, was silent for so long that Alan
spoke.
"What are you thinking of, little one?
Your face might serve as a cast of Ii Pen-
seroso, as you ride along there. Do you im-
agine that there is any prospect of your need-
ing Madelon's championship while I am
gone?"
"Scarcely," answered she. " They" (by
this ambiguous phrase she meant the Erie
family) "knowthatl am independent of them,
and they will not trouble me, I am sure. Then
there is my guardian. He is a tower of
strength."
"But an uncomfortably distant tower of
strength. 0 Ermine, Ermine-"
"Well, Alan, what?"
"I was only going to curse the poverty
which necessitates my leaving you. But that is
cowardly and ungrateful. Suppose I had never
won you-suppose I had come home and found
you married to Raymond?"
"Suppose something possible~whileyou are
about it, Alan."
"You are sure it is impossible, Ermine?"
"Sure, AI~n!" (indignantly). "What do
you mean? At this absurdly late day, are
you going to pretend to be jealous ?-and of
Raymond, of all people!"
"Jealous! Well, no. Only distrustful of
my own great good luck. What on earth you
see in me, Ermine, I am sure I can't tell."
"And what on earth you see in me, Alan, I
am sure I can't tell!"

They look at each other and laugh-happy
as the children to whom Madelon had contempt-
uously likened them.
"Well, well,"said Captain ErIe, witha short
sigh, "we shall have to learn the worst of each
other hereafter, for we certainly know only the
best new. I wonder if you have any worst,
Ermine?"
"Have you, Alan?"
"I! Good Heavens, yes! My dear child,
whatever you do, don't go to work and make
a paladin of me. I am only a commonplace
man, with the devil's own temper, sometimes."
Ermine shook her head with a laugh.
"I don't believe one word of it! You
need not abuse yourself to get into my good
graces. I am not Madelon."
"Thanks to a merciful Providence, you are
not indeed I"
"Alan!" (with a ridiculous attempt at a
frown), "don't be irreverent."
"Is it irreverent to thank God that you
are what you are, swc0S&amp;eart? I'll not be-
lieve that. But, as for my temper-let any-
body molest you while I am gone, and I can
promise them a taste of it when I come back 1"
Ermine glanced at him from under the
'rolling rim pf her hat, and was a little sur-
prised and a good deal edified to observe that
a considerable gleam of the temper of which
he spoke had flashed into his usually genial
face and sunny eyes. She liked him all the
better for it, since It is an astonishing but
most undoubted fact that women-especially
when they are very young and consequently
very foolish-do like this thing which of all
others most surely promises a plentiful harvest
of-future wretchedness and tears. There is a
certain popular proverb, which is not in the
least complimentary to the weaker, sex-about
a woman, a spaniel, and a walnut-tree-but,
taking it in a moral sense, we are sometimes
compelled to acknowledge that it is in a meas-
ure true. Most men certainly like to domi-
neer, and most women (until the delightful
pastime has lost its novelty) like to be domi-
neered over-which is a convenieht arrange-
ment of Nature, to say the least. Let it not
be supposed, however, that Alan was at all
inclined to Ciesarism, or that Ermine would
have been at all partial to being browbeaten.,
Only the instinct of the woman was gratified
by that gleam of menacing light which was
called forth at the mere thought of harm or
wrong to her.

EBB-TIDE.

60

I

"LOVE HATE SET OUR DAYS IN MUSIC TO THE SELF-SAME AIR." 61

"Alan dear," she said, after a moment,
"since you think it right to go, I have not, as
you know, even a desire to keep you; only-
only-" here the rebellious tears rose up-" I
have felt an instinct from the first that if you
do go something wrn happen; and that, after
this dream is broken, we can never, never be
so happy again."
"But, my darling, that is nonsense!"
"I know it, and I have tried-oh, so hard!
-to put it from me. But I cannot. I am
sure all this is too bright to last-it is too
good to be true. Earth is not heaven-nor
meant to be. Now, it would be heaven to
me if I spent life with you, as I have spent
these last few weeks. So I know it will not
be permitted-something will come between
us."
"But," said Alan, with hard, logical corn-
mon.sense, "what can possibly come between
us, save your own will?"
"I don't know," said she. "But "-and
riding along in the warm June air, he saw her
shiver.-" I am sure that, if we ever meet again,
it will not be as we meet now. You need not
reason with me, Alan, for I have reasoned with
myself. You need not even laugh at me~ for
I have laughed at myself. Nothing shakes
the deep, settled impression. Echoing through
my mind all the time are two verses which I
saw not long ago:
'Some there be that shadows kiss,
Some have but a shadow's bliss.'
Will it be so with us? Shall we only kiss this
shadow of love which seems so bright and
sweet?"
"You must choose your metaphors bet-
ter," said he, trying to smile away the sudden
cloud of pathetic sadness which had fallen
over her face. "Our love is not a shadow-it
is a reality. Ermine, if I know that you are
making yourself miserable with such thoughts
as these, how can I be other than miserable in
leaving you?"
"Forgive me," said Ermine, penitently.
"I did not-indeedI did not-mean to speak
of it. I am sure I don't know why I did.
Only, Alan-"
"Well, my love?"
"Mint you go?"
Oh, world of entreaty in three small words!
Transcribed, they look like the most ordinary
question; but, with the heart.eloquence that
stirred them, and the dark eyes that seconded

them, Alan Erle had a hard tug with himself
before he could answer:
"My darling, don'tyou know that I must?"
"How can I know it 2" she asked. Then
as a sudden rush of tears came, "0 .Alan,
Alan, if you were only going to take me with
you, I should be contentt,'
"But, Ermine-"
"Yes," said she, hastily, "I know you
can't, and I know, also, that it is not at all
'proper' for me to say such a thing. I love
you too well, Alan" (smiling at him through
her tears), "I am sure I shall spoil you. They
say-experienced women say-that it is al-
ways bad policy to show one's affection to the
man for whom one cares."
"Confound such hypocrites!" said he, un-
gallantly. "Let them practise their own pre-
cepts if they choose, but, for God's sake, don't
you take a leaf from them! I would not have
you altered by one jot or tittle, for all the ex-
perienced women in the world. I wish to
Heaven I could take you with me! But, since
that is impossible, I will do this-I wrn leave
it for you to decide whether or not I ~hall go."
"No, no, Alan" (shrinking), "I cannot
accept such a responsibility."
"I confess it would be a little sacrifice to
me," said he, looking away from her. "You
see, Ermine, your wealth stands like a wall
between us. I cannot forget it -nor will
other people forget it either. The devil him-
self seems to inspire most of the congratula-
tions ~that I have received!" he went on, sav-
agely. "The significant words and looks and
tones-nobody in the world will ever know,
half the people in the world would never be-
lieve, how they have cut me to the quick!"
"I know, Alan "-and a tiny, gauntleted'
hand went involuntarily out toward him. "It
is because I ks~ow so well, that I have not said
one word before-that I am sorry for having
said one word now. Go, dear, if you must go.
I can wait-as I have waited before."
The pathetic eyes looked at him as she
uttered the last words-steadfast and brave,
though the lips quivered piteously. Alan had
ridden close beside her, and was holding the
hand which she extended clasped close against
his breast, as he gazed into the pure, dark
depths, trying perhaps to read the riddle of
his fate there. The horses, feeling the reins-
slack and more slack upon their necks, had
come down to a snail's pace, and were indul-.
ging. the vagaries of their own sweet wills, in


02                        EBB-TIDE.

'the way of sociably rubbing their noses to.
gather, while Nix stood on the side of the
road, and, no doubt, wondered in his own mind
what on earth his master was about
"Ermine," said Alan, passionately, "my
faith in you is like the rock of Gibraltar-it is
too great to be placed in a mere fallible creat-
ure. Child, for God's sake, take heed what
you do! If you should ever fail me-how
could I forgive myself for having gone?"
"I cannot say that nothing will befall me,
Alan," said the sweet, loyal voice, "for life
and all the circumstances of life are in God's
hand; but I cam say that I will never fail you.
Nothing b~it death shall ever take me from
you."
"I ought to be sure of that," he said. "I
have known you as child and woman, and
never yet found a flaw in you. They did well
to n~sme you Ermine," he went on, tenderly;
"the crmin~ is the purest and whitest of all
'God's creatures, and dies if so much as the
least spot soils its snowy purity. I ought to
trust you-I do trust you, perfectly-and yet,
I think your fears have infected m~ Som~-
how I feel-What the deuce are you after, sir!
Hold up your head, can't you?"
This unromantic conclusion was addressed
to 'the horse, whose head had gone lower and
lower between his legs, as if he meant to in.
dulge in a mouthful of nice white sand. One
sharp jerk of the bit brought it up again in
short order, however, and then Captain Erle
concluded his speech:
"Somehow I feel more unwilling to go to
sea than I ever did in my life. It is natural,
'though, since I leave you behiad~-my hostage
in the hands of Fortune. Ermine" (fiercely),
"if God does not deal well with you, I shall
not believe that there is a God!"
"0 Alan, hush!" cried she, shrinking as
she might have shrunk from a blow, for she
was of a nature wholly and unaffectedly de-
vout. "Don't talk in that way, it sounds like
a defiance-which is so awful! Don't you re-
member what somebody says, not very rever-
ently, perhaps, but still very sensibly-' It is
never wise to try conclusions with the Al-
mighty.' Who am I, that I should be exempt
from the suffering of earth?"
"You shall be exempt from it when once
jyou are mine, to have and to hold-safe from
~ali others," naid he, boldly and not over-rever-
-ently. "Ermine, Ermine, stop-think-must
I, shall I go?"

She stopped and thought-long and deeply.
What a struggle it was with her to decide as
she did decide, no one, save God, could tell.
She fought the fight deep in her own breast,
and it was only the calm result of victory
which he saw at last.
"Alan, dear," she said, in a voice as soft
and low as the "wind of the western sea," "I
know that you want to go-that is, I know
that you will not be content unlessyou do go
-so I will not say one word to keep you. Af-
ter all, what are these fancies, but fancieb?
Nothing can harm me while you are gone; all
the powers of earth cannot make me unfaith-
ful to you; and I shall remember that our own
dear Lord watches over the sea as over the
land, and will hear my prayers for you let you
be where you will. The days will be
and long while you are away; but I can think
of you, and look for your letters, and remem-
ber that every hour takes me nearer the
blessed hour of your return."
"And so you say-' Go 9'"
"No, I cannot say that-but I will not
say, ยฃ5tay.~~~
"Then you menu, 'go' - and you are
right. A man in the full prime of all his
powers would be a contemptible fellow in-
deed who threw up all his hopes of fortune
or advancement in the world, and sat down
to be happy-on his wife's wealth. Perhaps
some men might stand it and not lose all
self-respect; but it would crush all the man-
hood out of mc! Nobody could despise more
than I should despise myself-and you would
despise me too, Ermine."
"Should I, Alan?"
"Yes, my pet-my pretty, soft-eyed dar-
ling-I think you would, after a time. Even
Nix would turn the cold shoulder on me. So
it is better as it is. I have lingered in this
paradise of roses a little too long already,
or I shouldn't have hesitated over such a
plain duty. The sea is what I need -the
sea will soon take all the nonsense out of
me!"
"Well," said Ermine, with a sigh, "if it is
settled, it is settled. We will make it a ta-
booed subject, Alan. I don't mean to think
of it any more until it is time to say good-by.
Now, let us take a canter."
"With all my heart," said Alan; and,
touching their horac; away they went, canter-
ing lightly down the level stretch of shining
road, with the last rays of the sun streaming

"LOVE HATIL SET OUR DAYS IN MUSIC TO THE SELF-SAME AIR." 63
over them and seeming to surround them with to their feet, will flow not ever again through
a halo of brightness,                         all the years of life.
So, they pass from sight-loving and be-                       "~Th, never more,
loved, crowned, as it were, with every gift of Ali never, shall the bitter with the sweet
life, and worthy, one would think, of envy, Be mingled so, In the pale after-years I
only that one catches the low, soft murmur of One hour of life immortal spirits possess.
This drains the world, and leaves but weariness,
that receding tide which, having flowed once And parching passion, and perplexing tears."


(I                                    DOES TRUTH SOU~{D BITTER?                65

PART II.
TIlE TIDE EBBS.
"All's over, then. Does truth sound bitter,
As one at first believes?"

I,-Fom a Charlestcsa paper~ date Jhae 13, 185-.
"Died, at Fort de France, in the island of Marti-
nique, on the 29th of May, Henri Charles Yivieux, a na-
tive of Bordeaux, France, and former colonel of Volti-
geurs In the French service, aged seventy-four years
and eight months. May he rest In peace!"
II.-~--From the same paper, date October 12,185-.
"We regret to learn that the brig Adventure, Cap-
tain Erie, homeward bound for the port of Charleston
from Buenos Ayres, was caught In the terrific storm
which visited the whole Atlantic coast on the 20th of
September, and wrecked off the coast of French Gui-
ana. A portion of the crew were rescued by a French
transport out from Cayenne; but the large majority, it
Is reared, have perished, with the captain and cargo.
The latter, we learn fl~om Messrs. Miller &amp; Sons, who
were the principal consignees, Is partly covered by in-
surance. Captain Erie was well known and highly es-
teemed in our community, and we tender our condo-
lences to his relatives and friends."
III.-.Fi'om the same, of a weeA~ later.
"We learn, from a New York paper, that the sur-
vivors of the shipwrecked crew of the brig Adventure
reached that port a day or two ago in the packet Elvh-a,
out from Ravre fourteen days. Meetingthe latter, they
were transfen-ed from the French transport L'Hiroa-
delle, and so reached their destination muchsooner than
would otherwise have been possible. The party con-
sists of seven men-the mate and six seamen-and
their narrative extinguishes the last faint hope that
Captain Erie might have escaped a watery grave. This
gallant sailor remained on his vessel to the last, and,
having Bent off one boat, was preparing to launch the
second, when, with an unexpected lurch, the ship went
down, carrying all on board with her. Once more we
must record our regret at the accident which has thus
cut short the valuable life of one so well fitted for use-
fulness and honor. Captain Erie leaves a large circle
of friends who will long deplorehis loss."

IV.-F~om a New York paper of November 10,185-.
"Married, yesterday, at the house of the Eev.
J. W. Gudrin, Ermine Hdlbne, only child of the late
Gustave St. Amaud, of Fort de France, in the island of
Martinique, and Esymond Erie, of Charleston, South
Carolina.
"Charieston and Martinique papers please copy."
CHAPTER     I.            /
DOES TRUTH SOUND BITTER?
"CHRIsTMas comes but once a year," say
the children, regretfully; but it is likely that
their elders, as a general rule, are heartily
glad of the fact-for, to all, save the ex-
tremely youthful, Christmas represents more
of annoyance than of pleasure. It is a glori-
Ous and thrice-blessed season, regarded from
the Christian point of view; but, regarded
from the side of the earth earthy-a side
which nnluckily every thing more or less pos-
sesses-it is a season from which the vast ma-
jority of people shrink nervously; a season
when the poverty of those poor whom we
"have always with us" seems to weigh more
heavily upon them than at other times, by con-
trast with the wealth and luxury so lavishly
displayed; a season when heads of families
are sometimes driven to absolute frenzy in the
effort to accomplish that financial result known
as "making both ends meet;" a season when
parties, balls, receptions, and all those gather.

ings which go to make "society," are in full
blast, and when all the heartaches and head-
aches, the torn dresses and torn affections,
the outrivalled jewels and rejected addresses,
which accompany them, are in full blast also;
a season when dolls and tea-sets, hobby-horses
and drums, are rampant, when one's house is
filled, one's pockets emptied, and one's tem-
per, like as not, ruffled to a degree from which
it will not recover for so~ime.
Yes, Chrirtmas come~~ut once a year,
and it came with a leaden sky and stiff
northeaster to Charleston on the 24th oC
December in that year which had given to
Alan Erie and Ermine St. Amand their happy
May-time of youth and love. The gay little
city wore ~er gayest holiday dress, the shops
were thronged with eager purchasers, the
streets filled with bright faces, and various
penny trumpets had already sounded the pre.
l"de of that discord which was to break forth
at nightfall, when a tall, handsome man with
something unmistakably sailor-like in his ap-
pearance, a man who was followed by an im-
mense leonine dog, entered the warehouse of
Erie &amp; Co., and asked the first clerk he met if
Mr. Raymond Erie was in the counting-room.
The clerk in question was a new-coiner, and
did not recognize his interlocutor. Being in
a preoccupied and Christmas-eve frame of mind,
he barely glanced at the speaker, saw that he
was evidently a person of some consequence,
despite a rough pea-jacket and0 a loose hand-
kerchief knotted aroitnd his throat, and, an-
swering in the affirmative, said something about
stating business" and "letting Mr. ErIe
know."
The sailor smiled a little, and, with a single
motion of the hand, stayed his steps. "I won't
trouble you to let him know," he said. "I
will see him myself.-Stay here, Nix!" he
added, to his canine companion. The dog
crouched obediently down, and, before the clerk
could expostulate or interfere, the stranger
had passed into the inner sanctuary of trade.
As it chanced, Raymond Erie was alone.
On the eve of the great holiday, he was sitting
at the desk, his slight figure bent over an
enormous pile of ledgers, while the clerks
lounged aimlessly aboilt the warehouse, and
even the book-keeper read a newspaper over
the fire of the outer room. In truth, the ac-
counts of the firm needed the careful revising
of the master-eye and master-hand, and on
this the junior partner-looking more pale and
5

thin than when we saw him last-was deeply
intent. Hearing the door open, he looked up,
frowning, from a balance - sheet. The tall
figure standing before klan uncovered with a
smile.
"Merry Christmas, Raymond!" he said.
"You see I am back, like a bad penny, after
all!"
Raymond Erle sprang from his seat, white
to the lips, and quivering like a man who meets
the ghost of one long dead.
"Good God!" he gasped, clutching at the
table-" Alan!"
"Alan, or his ghost," said the other ad.
dancing nearer with a smile, "only I'd make
rather a substantial ghost, don't you think so?
It is flesh and blood, beyond a doubt; shake
hands and see! By Jove, my dear fellow, how
glad I am glad to see you again!"
Oiie would have thought that these cor-
dial words should have come from the other,
from the pale manwho barely suffered his hand
to be pressed in his brother's earnest grasp, as
he managed to say:
"What an extraordinary surprise, Alan!
For Heaven's sake, where do you come from?
-how did you escape ?-and why didn't you
write?"
"Where do I come from?" repeated Alan,
with some surprise. "From the brig Dolores,
out from Rio Janeiro, that has just dropped
her anchor in the bay. How did I escape?
That's a long story, and can be given in full
another time; only I can tell you that, if it
hadn't been for Nix, Ishould be at the bottom
of the Atlantic now. Why didn't I write?
Why, I did write from Rio to Ermine. Has she
never received the letter?"
"And she-you all-thought I was dead
until this minute?"
"Until this minute, I assure you."
"Good Heavens! what a lucky thing that
I did not go up to the house and startle her!
You must go at once and break the news to
her, Raymond. She "-through his bronzed
skin it was evident that he paled a little as he
asked the question-" she is quite well, is she
not?"
Raymond's hand went suddenlyto his throat
and pulled open his cravat. "What devil's
luck!" he thought, "has brought him to
me!"
"She ?-Ermine, do you mean?" he asked
aloud-nervously anxious to gain a little time.

65


66

EBB-TIDE.

"Ermine, of course," answered Alan, ren-
dered suspicious by this hesitation. " Who else
should Imean ? For God's sake, speak quickly !
Is she well?"
" She is quite well."
Hoarsely and with an effort, these few
wards were spoken-so hoarsely, with so much
effort, despite all the speaker's well-trained
powers of dissimulation, that Alan would have
been both blind and deaf if he had not noticed
it. One other step brought him close to his
brother's side ; and he grasped his arm with no
gentle fingers.
" Raymond," he said, shortly, " you have
something to tell me. Out withit at once! I
am no woman, to have news ' broken' to me,.
Is she sick ?-is she dying ?-is "-he almost
choked here-" is she dead?" .
"She is neither sick, nor dying, nor dead,"
answered Raymond. " I-I will telJl you all
about it, Alan, if you will sit down and hear me
patiently."
But, instead of sitting down, Alan tightened
his grasp until it was many a long day before
the mark of those muscular fingers left his
brother's arm.
" Tell me," he repeated, savagely-" tell
me at once, 'or, by God, I will tear it from
your throat ! Where is she ?-how is she ?"
Now, Raymond Erle was no coward-physi-
-cally, indeed, there were few braver men-yet
there was something in the face confronting
him, and perhaps-who knows? ?- something
-also in his own conscience, that made him
shrink and quail.
" For Heaven's sake," he expostulated, "re-
:member that we thought you were dead."
" That is outside the question," said Alan,
sternly. " Once more, and for the last time, I
repeat, where is Ermine ? - what has she
done"
The answer came in three short words,
trenchant as steel, and cold as ice:
" She is married."
Alan heard, but, as is often the case with
some great and sudden shock, scarcely under-.
stood the word he repeated. His hand still re-
tained its grasp, but through all its sunburnt
hue his face grew ashy white, and his eyes
opened in startled amazement on his brother.
If he had heard that she was dead, he could at
least have comprehencaed the height and depth
of the calamity ; but now-
" Raymond," he said, hoarsely, " what do

you mean ? You are mistaken-you don't un-
derstand-it is of rmine I am speaking. You
dare not tell me that she is-is-"
" Married," said Raymond, as coldly and
mercilessly as before. Then to himself, " Thank
God, it is over !"
It was over indeed with Alan. The strong
man staggered. back as men stagger under
a mortal blow, and sat down in a chair without
another word. What, indeed, could he say ?
What do any of us say when the stroke of
some keen dagger goes home to our hearts ?
Raymond stood still and watched him.
Even at that moment, he had time to curse the
unlucky fate which had failed to bring the
letter that would have prepared him for this.
Hypocrite as he was, he was not enough of a
hypocrite to go forward and put his hand on
his brother's shoulder, or to utter any words
of condolence or regret. Besides, he was not
sure that it might prove safe. There may be
death in a lion's claws even after he has got
his mortal wound. So he stood watchfully
quiet and on guard, till Alan looked up with a
face which hardly seemed his own, so drawn
and changed was it. Meeting his brother's
eyes again, he rose to his feet and confronted
him.
" Raymond," he said, huskily, "it depends
upon one word whether from henceforth we
are brothers or mortal enemies. Whom did
she "-he could not force his dry tongue to utter
her name-" marry? "
There was a glance-in his eye, a tone of
menace in his voice, that made Raymond Erie
hesitate and look round as if for some weapon
of defence, before he answered. Finding none,
however, he threw back his shoulders and
folded his arms defiantly. The worst had
come ; through any thing and over any thing
the game must be played to its end now.
" Alan," he said, trying to speak kiridly,
" believe me I am deeply sorry-believd me
this never would have occurred if we had not
believed-''
Alan cut him short - sternly and ~eci-
sively.
"I want no lying excuses to gloss the
truth," he said. " Did she marry you? "
"Yes, she married me," Raymond an-
swered, thinking that, after all, he bore the
revelation with encouraging quietness. "You
must let me remind you of one thing," he went
on-as his listener stood stunned, quiescent,
simply looking at him-" my claim on Ermine

I

2'


DOES TRUTH SOUND BITTER?                 67.

t~.

C)
0
"5
"0
0
C)
C)
5
0
C)
5
a
a
ci
C)
"0
a
ci
a
'C
"ci
S
0
'a
5
a
ci
C)
C)

was prior to yours, and, although she may very
likely have deceived you in the matter-"
The next instant he found himself planed
against the wall, 'r~ith his brother's hand on
his throat.
"You are an infernal hypocrite and scoun-
drel and liar!" said Alan, with his eyes gleam-
ing like blue steel. "Do you dare to slander
her to me, though you were ten times married
to her? The devil only knows by what arts
of hell you have gained your point, and gained~
her fortune; but, if the same blood were not in
our veins, I would kill you where you stand!
As it is, I warn you that no law of God or man
shall stand between us if so much as one hair
of her head has been injured! Now go, like
the carri9a that you are! I will find the truth
elsewhere."
lie lit~ally flung him from his hand, and,
leaving him stunned, almost senseless, strode
from the office.
Outside the door, an eager group was
awaiting his appearance. The sight of Nix
told the story of his master's return; and
round the dog were gathered the book-keeper,
the clerks, and two or three outsiders who had
heard the news, and were on the qui vise to
see the sailor who had been dead and was
alive, had been lost and was found. When he
came out, half a dozen hands were thrust for-
ward at once in cordial welcome-that welcome
which not one of his own kindred was likely to
give him.
Now, Alan was " game" to the backbone,
apd so it is scarcely ~aecessary to say that, stag-
gering as he yet was under that cruel blow
which had been dealt him ~o suddenly and un-
expectedly, he gave no outward token of the
fact beyond that pallor which sat so strangely
on his sunburnt face. He smiled in his old
frank, genial fashion-smiled, however, only
with the lips, not with the eyes-as he graa~ed
one after the other the hands extended to him,
saying to each man a few words of cordial
thanks.
But they did not detain him long. All
their hope of hearing some thrilling story of
hair-breadth escape was nipped in the bud.
Without a discourteous word, or look, or tone,
Captain ErIe made them understand that, hav-
ing offered their congratulations, they must
fall back and let him go his way, free from mo-~
lestation.. This they did after first wishinghim
with genuine heartiness a merry Christmas in
celebration of his return.

"Thanks," said he, with a slight, almost
imperceptible quiver of the lip. "I have
looked forward to this Christmas for many
days," he went on, with a vibration of pathos
which the ears of his hearers were not suffi-
ciently finely-strung to catch. "I hope--I
sincerely hope-that it mayprove a happy one
to you alL"
They murmured their thanks; and, with a
bow which each man appropriated as a special
compliment to himself, he passed from among
them, followed by Nix.
Out into the crowded holiday streets he
went, out amongthe gay holiday crowd; crowd
not so intent upon its business of pleasure, but
that many old friends recognized the returned
wanderer, and greeted him with &amp;mazcment
and delight. roor Alan! Brave as he was,
his endurance and seW-control were tried to
their utmost within the hour following his de-
part&amp;re from the counting-house ivhere he had
left his brother. Everybody was overjoyed to
see him, everybody was eager to welcQme him
back with enthusiasm, and more eager (with
natural curiosity) to hear his story. But no.
body heard it save in the baldest and barest
outline. Courtesy bore him through the or-
deal-together with a dull, leaden, yet unreal-
ized sense that all was ovcr-bu~ talk atlength
he could not. After the first congratulations
and inquiries, people felt, as the clerks of ErIe
&amp; Co. had already felt, that they were detain-
ing a man who was feverishly anxious to ac-
complish some end apart from them~ They
hoped to see him soon again, and to hear his
story, they said; so, bidding him merry Christ-
mas, they passed on.
Merry Christmas! Ah, happy the heart
whose grief has never felt the sting of mockery
in those words of peace and good-will, whose
leaden heaviness has never been beyond the
reach of Christmas smiles and cheer; happy
the eyes that have never been t~o thickly
blinded by tears to catch a gleam of earth's
brightness, or even of that brightness not
of earth, which streams from the Manger
of Bethlehem; thrice happy the soul for
whom no bitter trouble or dust-stained care
has ever darkened this most fair and glorious
Feast of all the Christian year! Troubleseems
twice trouble, grief more than grief, wheutevery
voice-human and divine-bids us lift our
heavy lids and rejoice. We turn our eyes
from the brightness, we close our ears to the
mirth, we cry out, "This is not for us!" and

4

60


THE TRUTH ELSEWHERE.                    69

68                          El~B-TIDE.

we forget- 0 hearts of little faith !-what
few, short steps, along the bloody Via &amp;ucis,
lead from Bethlehem to Calvary, from the
new-born King to the crucified God!
The words of Christinasgreeting which fell
from every lip scarcely jarred on Alan, how-
ever-at least not yet. His preoccupationwas
too great. Wounded and bleeding as he was,
he felt also dizzy. He could not rid himself
of the thought that he was going to Ermine-~
hi. Ermine-to the meeting for which his
faithful heart had yearned, which his faithful
fancy had painted, through all these months
of absence. Married! He said it over and
over to himself; but, say it as often as he would,
he could not realize it. He ha~.l not yet realized
it when hin footsteps paused on the well-known
threshold of the Erie house. There he stopped
a~ moment. How could he meet her? What
should he say to her? He knew that some
black treachery had been at work to make her
Beem so bitterly faithless; but, none the less,
a gulf had been dug between them which no
human power could span. THis Ermine-his
pure, spotless lily-had beenwrested from him,
and the robber who had done the deed was no
man whom he could shoot down like a dog, but
his own father's son! Alan was not much
more than a savage, as he thought of the cruel
and enduring wrong that had been done to the
tender and helpless creature whom his supposed
death had left unfriended, lie steeled himself
against all the tender memories of love (mem-
ories which would only have unnerved him),
and thought only of the stern duty of yen-
seance, when at last he put his hand on the
bell, and sent a resounding peal through the
house.
The servant who opened the door looked
so amazed-so utterly aghast-at sight of him,
that he remembered for the first time his
ghostly character.
"It is I, Robin, not a spirit," he said, with
~a faint smile. "Don't look so scared ! There,
isn't that real?"
He held out his hand as he had held it for
the same purpose to his brother, and Robin-
who had known him from their common boy-
hood-seized it in a grasp different indeed from
the fraternal one, his whole face changing from
amazejnent to delight.
"'Fore God, Mass Alan, I'm glad and hap-
py to see you back, sir!" h~ said, forgetting
his usual decorous "Captain Erie," in the ex-
citement of the moment. "I always said there

wasn't water deep enough to drown you, sir ~.
but we all heard, sir, that you were drowned,
and no mistake about it."
"I wasn't though, you see-the worse for
me, perhaps! Thank yoit for being so glad to
see me, Robin. I am not sorry that somebody
is glad-l4ere. flow are-all?"
"All very well, thank you, sir; but "-
Robin hesitated a moment-"but our family
is not as large as it was when you left us, Mass
Alan."
"I suppose not," said Alan, turning away
-for he did not wish even a servant to read
his face just then. "Is any one in here?" ho
went on, walking toward the familiar sitting-
room.
"No one at all, sir," said Robin, going for.
ward to open the door. "Shall I let my mis-
tress know that you afe here?"
"No-let Miss Ermine know." (He would
not say' "Miss St. Amand," and the tortures
of the rack could not have drawn the other
name from him.)
Robin stood motionless-transfixed, as it
were, by astonishment-with the doorhandle
in his fingers.
"Miss Ermine!" he repeated; "I thought
you knew, sir. She's-she's married!"
"I do know," said Alan, through his set
teeth. "All the same~ let her know that I am
here."
"But she's not here, sir!" said Robin, with
his eyes like saucers.
It was now Captain Erle's turn to stare.
"Not, here!" he repeated. "What do
you mean? Where is she, then?"
"She's in Mart.ncck, sir," said Robin, with
dignity. "Miss Ermine has never been back
since she was married."
"In Martinique!" Alan was absolutely
stunned. "Are you mad?" he asked. "Do
you know that-that Raymond Erie is in the
city?"
"Mr. Raymond came back only last week,
sir-and he said he left Miss Ermine quite
well, and so pleased with the island she
wouldn't leave it. I assure you, sir, she has
never been back' since she went away last
summer."
"Last summer! Where was she mar-
ried?"
"In New York, sir."
There was silence for a long minute-then
Captain ErIe walked into the sitting.room,
saying, briefly:

"Tell Miss Lautrec that I will be glad to
seeker."
"Miss Lautrec is in Europe, sir," answered
Robin, compassionating this wonderful degree
of ignorance, yet not insensible to the pleasure
of enlightening it-that curious pleasure which
the vulgar always feel in telling news either
good or bad.
"What!" said Alan, facing round in new
astonishment.
"Miss Lautrec is in Europe, sir," repeated
Robin, modestly. "I told you, sir, that the
family is a good deal changed. Miss Mar-
garet's married, and so is Miss Ermine, and
Miss Madelon's gone away."
"Is anybody left?" asked Alan, gazing at
him in a sort of blank desperation.
"M4s. Erle is at home, sir, and Miss
Louise, and Mass Regy."
"Tell Mrs. Erle that I shall be glad to see
her."
He said these words almost mechanically,
and, as Robin closed the door, he looked
round the room, searching wistfully for some
token of the presence for which his heart was
yearning. Alas! there was not one.' Like
the golden May sunshine, that presence had
passed away, and the place which knew it
once would know it never again.
-4--
CHAPTER II.
THE TRUTH ELSEWHERE.
ROBIN'S announcement to his mistress, that
Captain Erie-" Mass Alan that we heard was
drownede, xna'am "-desired to see her, proved
by no means the shock which he had doubt.
less anticipated. He had not been in the
secret of a note which was brought to the
house by a panting messenger and delivered
into Mrs. Erie's own hand, half an hour be-
fore. The first use which Raymond had made
of his recovered senses was to scribble three
lines of warning to Ermine's mother:
"Alan has turned up, as you prophesied,
and received the news like a 'madman. He
will come to you for particulars. For God's
sake, take care what you say to him!
"R. B."
Thus warned-thus given half an hour for
reflection-Mrs. Erie, who was a born Talley.
rand in petticoats-felt justified in considering

herself fully equal to the emergency. She
went downstairs with her mind fully made up
concerning every word she meant to titter. A
distrust of her own diplomatic address did
not once occur to her, for she had known Alan
of old as entirely so belonging to that class
of men who ar~ like wax in a clever woman's
handsthat she had no doubt of finding him
plastic under her fingers. "Men are so
clumsy," she thought to herself; in that scorn
with which women often repay the cool superi-
ority of the stronger sex; and, so thinking,
entered the sitting-room with one hand ex-
tended in cordial welcome-now, as ever, the
stately and gracious lady whom Alan well re-
membered.
"My dear Alan, this is a most unexpected
pleasure 1" she said, in the old, clear, well-
modulated voice, which somehow seemed to
him now to have a metallic ring. "I cannot
tell you how happy I am to see you back
again-alive and well! It has been su~h a
long time since your shipwreck that we had
almost surrendered all hope of your escape.
It is true, Istill trusted that you might return;
but then a woman is more influenced by her
own wishes than by reason, you know. Have
you only just arrived?" (This, with a glance
itt his costume.)
Alan looked at a small French clock over
the mantel before~which he stood.
"I landed two hours ago," he answered,
briefly-and, as he said it, he stopped a mo-
ment to wonder if it was only two hours.
k~"Indced! How kind of you to come at
ones" said Mrs. Erie, still graceful, still cor-
diaL "Of course, you are going to stay with
us" (He had never done such a thing be-
fore; and it was strange, to say the least, that
she should imagine hL~ likely to do it now.)
"Will you go to your room at once, or will
you sit down"-(she drew a chair forward)-
"and let me hear the story of your escape?
I am sure it must be thrilling."
Now, next to his brother, Alan Erle's heart
*as hardest toward this woman-this smiling,
courteous model of elegant propriety-and he
felt no inclination to spare her one of the bit-'
ter truths burning within him. He frowned a
little as she drew forward the chair. Uncom-
promising Arabian that he was in all his ideas
of hospitality, it would have gone hard with
him to accept even a seat under his enemy's
roof.
"If you will allow me to stand, I should

p


prefer to do so," said he, courteously but
coldly. "I shall not detain you many min-
utes. I did not come to claim your congratu-
lations on my escape-~which, just now, God
knows, I cannot consider very fortunate-but
to ask you a few plain questions. Few as
~they arc, however, I must beg you not to let
me detain you standing while I ask them."
"I am not in the habit of sitting while my
guests remain standing," said Mrs. Erie, with
dignity. "If your questions relate to my
daughter," she went on, "I shall be happy to
answer them; although" (she~ emphasized
this), "I do not recognize that you have any
right to ask them."
"No right!" he repeated. Steeled as he
was against the rebuff which he had expected,
the blood rushed over his cheek and brow at
this cool retraction of the pledge once given
him in that very room. "No right!" he said
again. "Allow me to ask if you have forgot.
ten that I had the honor to be engaged to
your daughter with your own consent?"
"With my sufferance," quietly corrected
Mrs. ErIe. "'If you will do me the justice to
remember, I merely tolerated the engagement
until Ermine's guardian could be communicated
with. I have every reason to believe that
Colonel Vivicux would have regarded the
affair exactly as I did; and therefore any one
would hold me justified in considering that no
actual engagement ever existed. A foolish
love-affair is quite a different thing. This was
the view which I forcibly represented to Er-
mine before her marriage."
"And found a willing listener, apparent-
ly!" said Allan, bitterly.
Yet the words were hardly spoken before
he repented them, and, true as the needle to
themagnet, his heart flew back to its allegiance.
No I Let circumstances say what they would,
let the whole world say what it would, he
defied any or all of them to shake his faith in
the gentle creature ivho had ever been to him
so "tender and true." Is it Dc Maistre who
says that~ mankind should be divided into two
classes, "Ic chat et le chien?" Certainly
Alan had much of the canine nature in his
stubborn, dogged fidelity. There was in him
no making of an Othello. A thousand hand-
kerchiefs would not have shaken his trust in
the woman he loved. They had played him
false, they had wronged her deeply, they had
parted them forever; but, none the less, she
still remained firm on her pedestal, a pure,

faithful, passionate woman, who might be be-
trayed, but who could never betray.
"My daughter proved herself amenable to
reason," answered Mrs. Erie, coldly. "I should
have been exceedingly disappointed in her if
she had not done so."
"Did she prove herself amenable to reason
or compulsion 1"' asked Alan, striving hard
fdr self-control. "Knowing Ermine as long
and as well as I have done, I cannot believe-
and, by the God who will judge me, I do not
believe-that she acted in such a manner of
her own free will and choice 1"
Mrs. Erie drew herself up haughtily.
"When I agreed to answer your questions,
I should, have made a reservation that they
should be sufficiently respectful to be worthy
of attention," she said. "Since you have
known Ermine so long and so well, you might
also have known her stubborn and intractable
disposition. Will you tell me how I should'
have set about exercising 'compulsion' Qvcr
a self-willed girl whom the law emancipated
from every shadow of my control?"
"There are many modes of compulsion
besides those of' which the law takes cogni-
zance," said Alan, bitterly, "in all of which
you, madam, are, I am sure, an able proficient.
At least you cannot deny that it has always
been your wish that your daughter should
marry my brother."
"I have no intention of denying it," said.
Mrs. Erie, speaking still with haughty dignity.
"My daughter has always been a source of
great anxiety to me, and I have always desired
to see her happily married to some man wh~
could bear patiently with, and yet firmly con-
trol, her wayward fancies. Your brother is
such a man, and his suit received from the
first my *armest sanction."
"Yet you were kind enough to give this
same sanction to my engagement."
"Pardon me" (she made an ineffable, and
as it seemed, inexpressible gesture of scorn),
"I gave only my tolerance to that. To have
given more would have been impossible-yet,
under the circumstances, I could not give
less."
"And these circumstances were ?"
"The' fact that I was not Ermine's
guardian."
"You were her mother."
"Yes, I was her mother," said Mrs. Erle,
with one single flask of her clear, hazel eyes-
the scabbards had been thrown away before
4f

EBB-TIDE.

I'

EBB-TIDE.                                                         THE TRUTH ELSEWHERE.

this, and for the first (and last) time, the
naked swords of these two combatants
clashed blade against blade-" and, as her
mother, I felt deeply disappointed and deeply
wounded by her choice."
Alan suddenly raised his hand to his face.
He did not choose that his adversary should
see how the strong, white teeth involuntarily
went deep into his lip under the shade of the
heavily-fringing mustache. Even when he
spoke-and that was after a minute-his voice
shook a little.
"And may I venture to ask if Colonel
Vivicux agreed with you in your view of the
engagement?"
Mrs. Erie looked at him a little curiously-
this savage of the sea, who seemed in utter ig.
norance1of facts long since grown old and stale
to the dwellers of the land.
"Colonel Vivicux never heard of the affair
at all," she answered. "He was dead before
the news of it reached Martinique."
Alan passed his hand over his eyes. He
felt like one who, having waked from sleep,
begins to recall some dormant recollection.
"I had forgotten that Ermine's first letter
contained the news of her guardian's death,"
he said aloud. Then in a lower tone: "My
poor darling! so you had not even one friend
to fight your battle for you!"
There was silence after this for several
seconds. Standing strictly on the defensive,
it was no part of Mrs. Erie's policy to speak
first, and Alan shrank nervously-shrank "like
a woman," as he indignantly thought to him-
self-from opening the immediate subject of
the marriage. At last, however, he steeled
himself and spoke.
"Will you allow me to inquire the date of
Miss St. Amand's marriage?"
"The 15th ~f November," answered Mrs.
Erie, briefly.
"And may I also ask when she heard the
news of my shipwreck ~
"As well as I remember, it was somewhere
about the middle of October."
"And did she accept the fact of my death
at once, or did she require a little time to
verify it?"
"She accepted it at once," said~ Mrs. Erie,
decidedly, "especially after she had seen the
sailor-your mate, I think-who escaped."
At these words, the scarlet blood rushed
in a tide over Alan's face.
"She saw that cowardly dog!" he said.

~C She took the account of my death from 1dm!
My God, madam, if it hadn't been for that man,
none of my poor fellows would have been lost,
and I myself should not have needed to be
save(I almost as it were by a miracle I" He
said this passionately-then stopped, and the
blood died down again." My story will not in-
terest you," l~e went on; "so I will not weary
you with it. I came home full of hope and faith
and happiness-all of which one hour has end-
ecl. But I have something yet to do. I have
to hear the truth of her marriage from Ermine's
own lips, and to right her, wherever or how.
ever she has been wronged. This is my work;
and for this I shall always believe that God
brought me back to life out of the jaws of
death."
The concentrated passion and resolve of
his two last sentences seemed to move Mrs.
Erle a little. She looked at him, a there
was a slight whitening about the lips, which
betrayed that she felt some emotion when he
mentioned Ermine's name.
"I waive any notice of the insult which
your suspicions are to me," she said. "For
the gratification of my curiosity, I should like
to know what you suspect. Who could have
wronged Ermine ?-.-or what interest do you
imagine that I, her mother, could have had in
suffering her to be wronged?
Alan replied by taking from the inner
pocket of his coat a very battered.looking
pocket-book of Russia leather. From this he
extracted several letters, discolored with salt-
water, and handed to Mrs. Erie.
"Will you look at these, madam," he said,
"and will you judge whether I am likely to
credit that the woman who wrote these letters
-the woman whom I have known from her
childhood as the most faithful of God's
creatures-could willingly have married an-
other man in less then a month after she heard
of my supposed death?"
Mrs. ErIe declined the letters by a gesture.
She had no sentimental weakness about the
matter; but it would have been exceedingly
disagreeable to her to read the words of pas-
sionate affection addressed by her daughter.
to this man whom she hated as much as it was
in her to hate anybody.
"Such evidence as this is apart from the
question entirely," she said. "I decline to
read the record of a folly which my daughter
has happily outlived. Your obstinacy," she
went on," compels me to assure you that if you


had not been shipwrecked-if your voyagehad
been successfully accomplished-you would
not have found Ermine the foolish girl you left
her."'
"You mean-?"
"I mean that she had begun to appreciate
life a little better, and to learn-what many
another woman has learned before-that her
first matrimonial choice was a very unwise
one."
"In other words," said Alan, with deter-
mined calmness, "you assert that she was pre-
pared to break her engagement whether I
proved to be dead or alive?"
"Since you prefer to put it plainly," said
Mrs. Erie, with decided dignity, "I confess
that I am prepared to assert and to maintain
that fact."
"Then, madam,'~ said he, curtly, "you com-
pel me to decide between your assertion and
my knowledge of your daughter. When Er-
mine assures me of such a fact with her own
lips, I shall believe it-not before!"
The lady flushed a little, enough to show
that she felt the full meaning of his words.
"Mindful as I am of the excitement under
which you are laboring," she said, with stately
1~auteur, "it is impossible for me to endure
such a conversation as this much longer. Will
you be kind enough to end it, or shall I be
forced to leave the room?"
"I am sorry to have inflicted my society
upon you even for these few minutes," he an-
swered. "I should be still more sorry to inflict
it upon you any longer. With one-more ques-
tion, I am done. Will you tell me why Miss
St. Amand was not married in Charleston?"
"That is easily answered," said Mrs. Erie,
coldly. "We had been spending the summer in
Canada, and since it was necessary thatErmine
shOuld go to Martinique to look after her prop-
erty-Colonel Vivicux being dead-we con-
cluded that it would be better to hasten the
marriage so that she could sail at once from
New York."
Alan answered nothing. What could he
- say to such reasons es these? They looked
plausible enough on the outside, but a voice
within him cried, "False, false, false!"
"I regret not being able to see Miss Lau-
tree," he said, at last. - "I had hoped-very
much hoped-to meet her."
"Madelon also left us in New York," said
Mrs. ErIe. "An opportunity offered, and she
sailed for Havre, intending to spend some time

with her relations in France. By a chance1
iher departure was given in the same paper
which published Ermine's marriage.
She crossed the floor, and, opening a small
secretary, took from it a newspaper. Return-
ing, she pointed out two paragraphs to Alan.
One was the marriage of Ermine H~l~ne St.
Amand to Raymond ErIe; the other, thename
of Miss Lautrec in a list of passengers who had
sailed for Havre in the steamer Golden Bells.
Thinking at the time merely of the paragraphs
in question, it was not until afterward that
the manner in which the paper had been re-
tained and brought forward struck Alan as a
little singular.
When he laid it down, Mrs. ErIe saw that
the interview was at an end. He turned to go,
and his last words~-being indeed the very last
that were ever spoken between them-were
such as she was not likely to forget.
"I came to you for the turth, madam," he
said. "I have obtained only evasion. But
this I beg you to remember-Iwill kane 1/sat
trutls. I resign my profession, I put aside
every aim and object of my life, until I shall
explore this mystery-for mystery it is to me
-to the bottom. And I warn you-Ermine's
mother-as I have already warned the man
who calls himself her husband, that, when the
day of reckoning comes, I will return a
hundredfold, upon those who have wronged
her, every pang which she may have suffered,
and every tear which she may have shed!"
She did not answer. With those passionate
words still vibrating on the air, he turned and
left the room.
-4--
CHAPTER III.
"GO TO MAIiTINIQUE!"
"ALAN I Is it possible this is you!"
These words, accompanied bya half-startled
cry, fell on Captain Erie's ;ears as he was
making his way, with an apathetic disregard of
the comfort of other people, through a crowd
which jammed the sidewalk almost to suffoca-
tion before a large fancy establishment on King
Street. He turned sharply-wondering a little
who would be likely to call his name in that
familiar tone-and faced a beautiful, golden-
haired woman who, followed by a servant with
his arms full of bundles, was stepping across
the pavement to her carriage. The color had

EBB-TIDE.

fled from her cheeks, and her turquoise eyes
expanded with amazement, almost with flight,
as she looked at him. As he turned, she put
out one daintily-gloved hand and touched his
sleeve.
"Alan!" she gasped, rather than said. "Is
it-is it you?"
"Of course it is," answered Alan, recogniz-
ing her in a moment. "My dear Margaret,
don't look so frightened! It is I, in veritable
flesh and blood; and very glad lam to see you
again. Must I congratulate you on having
changed your name and estate?" he went on,
taking her hand and looking at her with a
smile. She was of his own kindred, and she,
at least, had done nothing to wrong him. Why
should he not smile and be honestly glad to
see her? /
Instead of answering his question, however,
Margaret, according to her old habit, burst into
tears.
"0 Alan! Alan!" she cried, "they ~told
me you were dead!"
"Instead of that, however, you see that I
am alive," answered he, considerablyastonished
by this unexpected display of emotion. "My
dear cousin, let me put you into your car-
riage," he continued, as he saw how the scene
w1~s drawing an interested crowd around them.
"You almost make me think that you are dis-
tressed to find me alive!" be said, with a
smiling attempt to quiet her, as he drew her
hand within his arm, and led her to the car-
riage.
"No, no!" cried Margaret, with a tragic
emphasis' which amazed him. "God knows
how glad I am, Alan-how truly, honestly glad
-to see you back in safety. I 'would have
done any thing sooner than-than been glad
that you were dead." -
"Indeed, I should really hope so," said he,
smiling again. "What possible reason could
I l~ave for suspectingyou of such an enormity?
Are your bundles all in safety? Yes, that's
right! Now tell me where you live, so that I
can come to see you soon, and good-by."
He put out his hand. But the words had
not left his lips before Margaret interposed
eagerly:
"No, you must come with me now. I am
sure you are not going anywhere-at least
anywhere that matters. Come, Alan-I in-
sist upon it! I have so pinch to say to you."'
He hesitated; but, as she had said, he was
not going anywhere that mattered, and he felt

I

EBB-TIDE.                                                         "GO TO MARTINIQUE!"

in that mood of recklessness when one is glad
to escape from the society of one's self into
any other whatever. Besides, she was his cous-
in, and she was glad to see him. His heart-.
yearning for hopeless affection-caught even
at this.
"Really, Margaret," he began, wavering
and evasive.
But Margaret swept aside her silken skirts,
and beckoned him imperiously into the car-
riage.
"Come!,' she said. "You must come; I
will take no denial. What! risen from the
dead, as it were, and leave me like this!
Come!"
Her 'feverish anxiety influenced him,
whether he would or no. He entered the car-
riage, the footman closed the door, and they
rolled away.
Then the crowd began to chatter! Heaven
only knows how many different versions and
interpretations of the scene flew from lip to lip,
the favorite rendition being a modified form
of "Add Robin Gray."
"Did you hear about Margaret ErIe?"
people asked each other. "You know every-
body said she married Mr. Sexton against her
will, while she was really in love with that
cousin of hers who turned sailor, and was
drowned, or reported to be drowned at sea.
Well, it was all true enough. On Christmas.
Eve she suddenly met him-the cousin, I
mean-just as she was coming out of Guth-
ne's, and, right before everybody, she* went
off at once into hysterics, assuring him she
would never have married if she had not
thought he was dead!"
The subjects of this bit of popular history
-then in active course of preparation-had
meanwhile stopped before an "elegant man-
sion" (that is the correct term for a comfort-
able house, I believe), into which Captain Erle
followed his cousin. The mAnsion in question
was elegant within as well as without; and the
sailor, fresh from the sea, could not but be
struck by the judicious manner in which the
ethereal inspiration of poets and painters had
in the end feathered her nest.
"I am inclined to think that, after all, Mar-
garet, you made a wise choice," he said, a lit-
tle sardonically, as he was led into a dim,
flower-scented, rose-hung, mirror-embellished
room which Mrs. Sexton called her boudoir,
and inducted into a chair that might have
tempted an anchorite to repose. "Love


sometimes flies through the window," pursued
the cynic, "but statues, and mirrors, and
French furniture, are not disturbed by any
such freaks of passion. One's heart might
break, but a chair like this would be a com-
fort all the same."
"I am not so sure of that," said Margaret,
laying aside her bonnet, and sinking into a
corresponding chair, with her wealth of amber
hair crowning her like the halo of a saint.
"Sometimes I would not care if it all did fly
through the window," she went on. "Some-
times, Alan, I can't help thinking that I have
paid a little too dear for-for every thing."
"What do you mean?" asked Alan,
bluntly. "Didn't you choose your husband
of your own free will? That being the case,
what right have you to complain because
your bargain may not be exactly to your
taste?"
"My own free will 1" repeated Margaret,
scornfully. "I wonder when a man-a man
like ~you-ever comprehends that a woman's
free will, from her cradle to her grave, means
less than nothing? 'No right to complain!'
I don't complain, I'd die before I would com-
plain. My husband is good and kind to me-
kinder by far than I deserve-but none the
less I suffer more than you would believe if I
were fool enough to tell you!"
Tears rose to her eyes-hot, angry, scorch-
ing tears; but she choked them back. Life
was beginning to teach even this spoiled but-
terfly a little self-control, and the wisdom
which is learned only by experience. Alan's
heart-always a tender heart to the distress
of women or children - was touched, lie
leaned forward and took the hand with which
she has just dashed away one or two briny
drops.
"Forgive mc if I spoke roughly," he said.
"God knows I am the last man in the world
to jest at scars, when I carry within my own
heart a gaping wound. Come, Gretta "-this
had been his name for her when she was a
child, and she had n&amp;t heard it since-" you
used to be fond of me long ago, and, although
of late years you have ou't'grown all the fond-
ness and acquired instead a considerable de-
gree of shame for your sailor-cousin, I am
sure you still know that I can be trusted.
T~I1 me your troubles-it will be some relief
tp"you-and let me see if, two heads being
better ~than one, we cannot find a remedy for
them."

To his surprise, Margaret drew her hand
quickly away from him, and shrank-.-nervous.
ly shrank - into the depths of her chair.
"Don't, Alan-don't!" she gasped, rather
than said. "I-cannot!"
"You mean you can't talk of them?"
"Yes, I mean that. I can't talk of them
-at least not to ~iou."
"Better talk of them to me than to any
one else, Margaret. I would hold your confi-
dence sacred."
"And you think nobody else likely to do
so? ~Vcll" (with a sigh), "you are right!
You must not think that I have any complaint
to make of my husband," she went on, with
an eagerness which surprised him. "He is
devoted to me-much more so than I deserve,
as I cannot help thinking when I remember
that I married him caring no more for him
than for that dog of yours!"
"But you care for him now?"
"Yes, I care more fo~ him now," answered
she, a little doubtfully. "He gives me every
thing in the world I want, and is as kind as he
can be; but-but-"
Here the turquoise eye~ filled up with
tears again, while Alan's face grew hard. He
began to suspect that his cousin's heart
was still yearning after the accomplished gen-
tleman whom he had the honor of calling
brother
"M~rgaret," he said, sternly, " I know you
once h~d a foolish fancy for-for-" he hesi-
tated, struggled d with himself, finally wrenched
the wo~ds out, and fairly flung them at her-
"for m~ brother'; but it is impossible that you
can stilt waste a thought on such a scoundrel!
If so-'~
An ~inexpectcd gesture from Margaret in-
terrupt~d him here. Her eyes blazed through
the tea~s which had welled into them, and she
suddenly brought one foot down with an un-
mistakable stamp on the carpet
"He is a scoundrel!" she said. "Thank
you, Alan, for calling him so. No, I would
tear my heart out sooner than-than care for
him! lie has poisoned my life for me-that is
what he has done! It was bad enough while
I thought you were dead," she went on, with
passionately-clasped hands and a strangely-
excited face, "but now-now-oh, I don't
know what to do 1"
She broke down in this way with another
burst of tears, and Alan-.after looking at her
silently for a moment-rose, came to her side,

74

p

EBB-TIDE.

'74                        EBB-TIDE.                                                            "GO TO MARTINIQUE!"                  '7 a

I

and laid one sunburnt hand down on her
silken-clad shoulder.
"Doat, Alan-don't!" she said, shrinking
away from his touch, as she had shrunk be-
fore. "I-did not mean any thing!"
"Yes, you did mean something," said Alan,
in a low, determined voice. "Margaret, look
at me-I insist upon it! You won't? Well,
then, listen to mc at least. You know some-
thing about Er mine-and I charge you, for
your soul's sake, to tell it to me instantly!"
"Why should you think I know any thing
about Ermine? What is Ermine to me?"
she asked, still without looking up. "I-I
never liked her. You know we never got on
well together."
"I won't stop to ask whose fault that was,"
he answered, in a tone that fairly awed her, it
was so grave and stern. "But this I see
plainly-you know the truth about Ermine's
marriage, and you must tell me at once what
it is-what it was!"
"Why do you come to me with such a de-
mand?" she cried, drawing herself away from
his hand. "Why not go to Ermine's mother
or to-to her husband?"
"I have seen them both," he answered,
"and found them as false as false can be.
Margaret, you are my last h'pe-here, at
least. Tell me the truth, for God's sake1 and
you will never regret it."
But, as he made the a4uration, he saw  4
how-hopeless it was. His influence, and the I
influence of her own conscience, were both I
but weak and faint compared to the influ-
ences which had ~~uled and fashioned her
whole life, and which still held their sway,
almost, if not quite, as strong as ever. Let her I
inclinations be what they would toward hon-
esty and truth, Raymond still stood like a lion
in her path. She might talk of hating him, I
but his spell had been laid upon her for good
or for ill, and she was now, as ever, his obedi-
ent slave. r
"I can tell you nothing," she cried out,
passionately. "What is there to tell? For
Heaven's sake, let me alone! What is Er- I
mine to me, and what is she to ~,iou, now? I I
should think you would hate and despise her."
"Then you know very little of her, and a
still' less of me," he answered. "She is every I
thing to me now, and she will be every thing
to me till I die. I know that there has been v
foul play in this marriage, because I know
that she is the most tender and faithful of s

God's creatures-utterly incapable of betray-
ing any trust once given to her. . There is no-
fear that I will not find out the truth sooner
or later," he went on; "for I have already-
devoted to the task every energy which I pos-
sess; but I am sure that you can help mc,
Margaret, and I trust that you wilL"
"No, I cannot hel~i you," said Margaret,.
"except "-and here she looked at him witlt
suddenly shining eyes-" I can tell you this:
if you want the truth-yo to 2lfartinique/"
Now, Alan had already made up his mind
to go to Martinique, but the tone of this recom-
mendation seemed suddenly to fill him with
vague apprehensions. Most of us have known
what such apprehensions are, most of us have'
known how an accent, a look, is sometimes
more darkly suggestive of unknown terror than
any spoken words could be.
"Margaret," he said, quickly, "for God's
sake tell me what you mean! Has any thing
befallen Ermine? What have they dared to-
do to her? Speak, if you have any mercy!
Don't leave me to torture myself with every
black fear that love can suggest!"
"Ermine was very well when I saw her-
last," said Margaret, a little sullenly. "If
any thing hqs befallen her, it has been since
then."
"And when did you see her last?"
"I parted from them all in New York, in.
l~ctober. Mr. Sexton was anxious to come
Lioine, while they decided to remain there for
bhe marriage."
"You were not at the marriage?'~
"Then why do you advise me to go to Mar-.
~inique?"
"I thought you wanted. the truth," said.
~Iargaret, looking steadilyand studiously away'
~om him.
"I do want it, and" (with an emphasis
rhich sheneverforgot), "by the Goclwhomade-
ne, Iwill have it!"
"Well," said she, with something of the
ame glance which he had noticed before in
icr usually languid odalisk eyes, "it is to-
~Eartinique that you must go to look for it."
"But you will not condemn me to days~
nd weeks of suspense, when a word from your
ips could end it I" said he, passionatelyr
'You will not send me to Martinique to learx~
~hat you could tell me here and now?"
"I have nothing to tell you," she aii~
werecL


EBB-TIDE.

"'But, Margaret-"
'"I know nothing!" she repeated, facing
round upon him suddenly. " How should I?
Do you think Raymond is likely to take me
into his confidence ? Leave me alone ! I am
-sorry that I brought you here to torment ane
like this !"
"And I am sorry that I came,"' he said.
'You have, if possible, given an added weight
to the anxiety which is already wellnighecrush-
ing me."
He sat down again in the chair from which
he had risen, and almost unconsciously his
head sank into his hands. Strong man as he
was-strong, indeed, in a higher sense than
-the mere physical-something like a deadly
faintness came over him. If the shadow of
mystery looked so black, who could say how
much blacker the reality might prove ?
As for Margaret, she sat still and looked at
him; sorry for him somewhat, but sorry for
herself still inore ; lacking courage to be silent,
lacking yet more the courage to speak. After
-all, she was of a very commonplace type, by
no means wholly bad, yet assuredly by no
"means wholly good. After a fashion, she was
capable of friendship, gratitude, and love ; after
a fashion also, of hatred, enmity, and revenge.
But her love would never have been equal to a
sacrifice, and her revenge would have always
-taken the form of petty malice. Of any thing
positive her nature was literally incapable.
She had not strength of character sufficient to
proclaim her cognizance of a guilty scheme,
and yet she had enough of a conscience to be
restless under the weight of its knowledge. The
medium course which she took at the present
time was the temporizing course which moral
cowards always take. She was not true to
either side ; she did as much harm both ways
as she was capable of doing, and then shrank
back, hoping to go scot-free of the blame which
she dreaded more even than the responsibility
of crline.
"There is one thing I can do," said Alan,
vaismng his head at last, and speaking a little
hoarsely. "I can go to your husband. He, I
presume, knows something of the matter as
well as yourself, and the world mistakes him
greatly if he is not an honest man. At least" .
-not a little bitterness rang in the tone here
-"he will not be afraid of Raymond."
" Are you mad ?" cried Margaret, spring-.
'ing forward with a pale, excited face, and
catching his arm. " Do you want to rui me

forever? If you do, go and put such suspicions
as those into my husband's head ! He will never
forgive you, never, and he will never forgive
me, either!i He is honest-as honest as the
day-and hoe knows nothing which might not
be published to the whole world. If-if he
even suspected that I knew any thing which
was wrong, I don't believe he would ever speak
to me again. 0 Alan, for Heaven's sake, don't
-don't go to him!" .
"Then tell me the truth," said Alan, seeing
his advantage in her imploring face, and so in-
tent upon his point that he did not stop to
consider the means by which he hoped to
gain it. -
For answer, Margaret burst into passionate
tears.
" You are cruel! you are cowardly !" she
cried. " I have done for you what no one else
has done-I have shown you how to gain the
truth-and, for thanks, you try by threats to
force me into betraying secrets which are not
mine, secrets which would be my ruin if I did
betray them, Is this honorable ? - is this
mauly ? I am a weak woman, and you come
and- overawe me-why don't you go to Ray-.
mond and make him tell you what you want to
know ?"
"I appealed to your honor and conscience,"
said Alan. " You know, as well as I do, tfiat
I might as well appeal to the honor and con-
science of the devil as to those of my brother,.
It seems, however," he wen on, gloomily, "that
it was quite as useless to appeal to yours. I
beg your pardon, however, for having forgotten
myself so far as to utter what seemed like a
threat. Since you assure me that your hus-
band knows nothing of' the matter, I shall not
speak to him. But I think it would be well
for you to ask yourself whether the path you
are following is likely to lead to happiness.
You have confessed that you hold secrets which
would be ruin if you betrayed them. Stop and
consider whether they are most likely to be
your ruin when told voluntarily by yourself; or
when exposed by another ; as they will be if
God gives me life to do it ?"
" We do not know what may come before
the exposure," said Margaret, evasively. "' Lu,
I, any of us, may be dead. Besides, if the
matter is merely exposed, my husband will
have no proof that I knew of it. You may
believe me, Alan-I speak as I might if I were
on my death-bed-Ihad no share in i"
She laid her hand on his in the 'energy of

I

CHECKED AND CHECKMATED.

'/7

her last words, but he shook it off as though
the fair, white flesh had borne the taint of lep-.
rosy.
" What do you call the share of aiding in a.-
criminal concealment ?" he asked, hoarsely,.
" Don't blind yourself; don't think that your
hands are clean because they were passive.
Remember that you have had the opportunity
to clear your conscience, and to right those
who are wronged, and you have refused it.
Hereafter I shall not trouble you. But when
the day of reckoning comes, I shall not spare
you, the passive instrument, any more than I
shall spare the active authors of the wrong. I
will take care of my life, too-iindful always
with whom I have to deal-and trusting that I
may not gyatify you in the death on which you
build your hopes."
" Hopes ! 0 Alan, hiow you wrong me, how
bitterly you wrong me! Was I sorry to see
you a little while ago ?"
"No," said he, softening somewhat. " I
believe you were not. But you have taken
your first step on a dark road, Margaret, and
who shall say where it will end ? "
" It should end here and now, if I only
dared," said Margaret-" if I only dasred !" she
repeated, wringing her hands.
"Dare for God's sake, for the sake of your
-own conscience and your own soul 1 " said he,
with passionate earnestness. " While I was
considered dead, you had an excuse for silence;-
now I am alive you have none ! Trample your
fear of Raymond under foot ! I will protect you
against him !"          -
But she shrank back, her whole nature re--
coiling from the path which he marked out.
r otter, hesitate, temporize, if need be, but
.never face a direct issue, og tell a direct truth.
-That' was her creed-the creed which every
natural instinct seconded so strongly that per-
haps sfie did not merit all the indignant wrath
and contempt that Alan felt. Do we not pity
the man whose cheek grows white in the face
of a danger from which he dies, not one but a
thousand deaths ? - And should we not doubly
pity the soul which shrinks from any and every
ill; save, indeed, that ill which is eternal ?
" I see that it is useless to urge you; I see
that you will not take courage and do the
thing which is right," said Alan, after a pause.
unti th truth has seena th lgto RmR ember
-if; indeed, we should not ever meet again,
that you might have spared me much suffering,

which, instead, I shall go forth on my errand
bearing with me. Now, good-by. Will you--
can you-wish me God-speed ?"
"Yes-yes-with all my heart," said she,
speaking through tears. "Believe me, Alan, I
would tell you, if I could ; and, believe me, you.
will be very near the truth when you reach
Martinique. But don't make this goodby-
pray, don't 1" she went on, eagerly. " Come
back and ~dine with us-Mr. Saxton likes you.
so much, and will be so glad to see you."
"You are very kind," he said ; " but I
should be ill company for any one just now-
save the one whom I shallgo to see," he added,
lowering his voice.
-"And who is that one ?" asked Margaret,
a little curiously.
" My mother," he answered, simply.
" Your mother ! "-the blue- eyes sprang
wide open, for, two years before, while Alan
was far away, the reaper Death had come and
garnered into his sheaf the fair, sweet lady for-
whom the young man chiefly toiled, leaving to
him, when hie returned, only a short mound of
earth, and a memory which could never die-
" Alan-what do you mean? "
" Not that I have turned spiritualist," said
Alan, smiling a little sadly, " or that I would
call her back for an hour, if I could. But I
always go to her grave when I come home.
Somehow I think she may know it and like it."
" You are as faithful as a dog," said Mar..
garet, touched unawares ; and is it not a fine
irony on this human nature of ours that we can
find no higher praise or better comparison for
its fidelity than this ?
So they parted, not in anger, nor yet with
that cold challenge of opposing interest and
aim which had been Alan's farewell to Mrs.
Erle. Their hands clasped, they bade each
other good-by (which, being interpreted, means,
" God be with you "), and if Alan had notheard
from his cousin's lips the truth for which he
thirsted, he had at least heard that recom-
mendation which accorded so well with his own
desire-
" Go to Martinique!"
CHAPTER IV.
.ANK D  ~CHtcKMATED.
THE dusk of Christmas -Eve was dying
away over the city roofs and spires, and the


48                       EBB-TIDE.                                                    CHECKED AND CHECKMATED.

"night before Christmas "-eagerly watched,
eagerly desired by how many childish eyes
and hearts !-had already fallen, when a sharp
peal of the door-bell echoed through the ErIe
house. For a marvel, Regy and Louise chanced
to be, not in the nursery with their bonne, but
in the sitting-room with their mother-the sit-
ting-room brightened just now by the glow
diffused from a vivid mass of coal which
heaped the glittering grate, and looking rarely
attractive with its bright pictures resting ease-
fully in carved frames on the softly-tinted
walls, its slender vases full of those fragrant
flowers which the sweet South rarely refuses
to her children, and one fair, cold statue stand-
ing in motionless grace just within the bay-
window, thrown into relief by therich sweep
of the maroon curtains, and "bathed in the
bloom of the firelight" which reached even
'this distant nook.
"Now you must go, children," said Mrs.
Erle, as soon as she caught the sound. "You
know I only allowed you to stay on condition
you gave me no trouble in case any one came
in. You shall come down again after a while,
~but you must go now."
"Mamma, you n'iqltt let us stay!" said
Bogy, in a tone of expostulating persuasion.
This young gentleman was lolling luxuriously
in the depths of a capacious chair, and looked
like a Louis-Quinze page in his blue-velvet
suit, his delicate lace ruffles, and long, fair
curls. "It's sure to be nobody but Cousin
Raymond, or Mr. Saxton-and it's Christmas-
Eve. There isn't any good in dressing up to
go and stay with Marie. Do, please, pretty
mamma, let us stay!"
"Yes, mamma, please let us stay !" pleaded
Louise, fired by the contagion of example, and
mindful of her rose-colored silk and the broad
sash which Marie's Parisian fingers had tied
so deftly. "We won't say a word-will we,
Regy?"
"Not unless somebody says something to
us," answered Regy, not quite ready to make
such an unconditional covenant of silence.
"Reginald, take your sister and leave the
room at once" said Mrs. Erle, concisely.
"Go up-stairs and stay with Marie until I
send for you."
Maste~' Reginald, somewhat crestfallen, tum-
bled out of his cosy retreat and took Louise's
tiny, outstretnlied hand. They were both
beautiful children, and they looked like a lit-
tIe fairy prince and princess, as they made

their graceful courtesy (the courtesy taught
to French children as soon as they walk), and
left the room. Poor little elves! Their rear-
ing was a queer mixture of two essentially dif-
ferent systems - the nursery, which is un-
known in French life, being their habitual
home; while they were sedulously trained in
that charming courtesy and docile obedience
so remarkable in French childrenand, forth
lack of which, English (and, how much more
American!) children are, in nine cases out of
ten, veritable little boors and plague-spots in
society.
As the small pair ascended the staircase,
with disconsolate faces, Robin opened the
front-door and admitted into the haIl a gentle-
man who, only stopping a moment to throw
off his overcoat,1 passed directly into the sit-
ting-room.
"It's nobody but Cousin Raymond!" said
Louise, in an injured tone, pushing back her
yellow curls and peering down through the
balustrade which she was not tall enough to
overlook.
"Mamma might as well have let us stay,"
said Bogy, also injured, and commanding a
better view of matters and persons on account
of his more exalted stature. "It's a shame
to send us up-stairs Christmas-Eve," pursued
the young gentleman. "I say, Louise, don't
let's go to Marie. She's in her room, finishing
a present for her sweetheart-he knows all
about it, though, for I saw her working his
name on it, and I told him so-and we can
go and have a peep at the Christmas-tree
without anybody knowing it!"
"Oh, but Bogy, there isn't any Christmas-
tree yet," said Louise, breathless and open-
eyed. "You know Santa Claus never comes
till midnight."
"Then what is the nursery locked up for?"
demanded Bogy, with superb skepticism.
may believe' in Santa Claus, Louise, because
you are a very little girl; but I know better.*
I saw Robin carry the tree into the nursery,
and I saw Marie hanging the lights on it. She
shut the door in my face, but I knew what
she was doing. Now, if we go and peep
through the key-hole, we can find out what we
arc going to have."
"Can we?" said Louise, yielding to temp-
tation with Eve-like readiness-violet eyes
wide open, and coral lips apart-"then,
Bogy, let us go!"
"All right," said Bogy, "come this way ! ~

And, hand-in-hand, the two young conspira-
tors marched down the thickly-carpeted corri-
dor to the nursery-door. There they remained,
engaged in alternately applying one eye to the
key-hole and being rewarded by a view of the
extreme corner of the table on which the
Christmas-tree was supposed to rest.
Meanwhile, Mrs. ~rle was saying to Ray-
mond, with an unust~al degree of solicitude in
her voice:
"Do sit down and get warm-I am sure
the weather must be horribly damp. You
look pale. Are you sick? Will you have a
glass of wine?"
"No, thanks," said he, sinking into the
chair which Bogy had vacated, and basking in
the genial warmth of the fire very much as
that youn~ gentleman had done before him.
"Do I look pale?" he went on, tossing back
one or two dark locks that had fallen across
his gleaming forehead. "I am not at all sick
-only, perhaps, a little tired."
"I am afraid you have had a very trying
day," said she, looking at him closely, almost
anxiously.
"Rather more trying than I anticipated
this morning, certainly," he answered, care-
lessly. "But I can take my ease to-night"
-he leaned back in the soft velvet depths,
and looked as if he was taking it-" with the
consciousness of rest well earned-of difficul-
ties and dangers successfully met and left be-
hind,"
Mrs. Erie started and glanced at him keen..
ly-a shade of color which was not cast by
the fire, flickering into her alabaster cheek.
"You don't usually underrate difficulties
or dangers," she said; "else I should think
that you were surely unaware what an enemy
this day has raised up for you2'
"Do you think that an enemy who comes
and throws his intentions like a challenge in
your teeth, is mu6h to be feared?" he asked,
with a curl of his well-cut lips.
"Not to be feared, perhaps, but certainly
not to be despised. That would be a great
~rror-the greatest of the two."
"My friend, I never despise anybody,"
said Raymond, more earnestly than before.
"I know the world too well for such folly.
Nobody is too insignificant either to serve or
to injure one's interest. It should be a cardi-
nal principle with every wise man never to
make an enemy wantonly-never to offend the
most humble, unless absolutely forced to do so.

There are few better fables than that of the
lion and the mouse."
"Yet you make enemies without heed-
apparentlyl without care-when compelled to
do so."
"You say right-when compelled to do so.
If I have a great end in view, I don't let a few
individuals bar my way to it~ but 'neither do
I ever neglect any reasonable precautions
against their malice. Of course, these precau-
tions are rendered much more easy when my
adversary is kind enough to show me his
hand, and make me a confidant in his plans
for my defeat."
"Do you think that Alan has done this?"
"I received your note, written just after he
left. If he had conceived any plan more brill-
iant than the one with which he favored you, he
would certainly have returned to let you hear
it."
"Don't be too sure of that, and don't,
don't let your contempt for him lead you into
carelessness. If ever a man was in earnest,
that man was in earnest today! If ever a
man was dangerous, that man was dangerous
today! Don't deceive yourself-don't think
that his bitterness will evaporate in idle threats.
There was the look of a bloodhound in his
eyes when he said he would track the matter
down!"
"Very likely!" said Raymond; but, with
all his superb carelessness, there was some.
thing of a dangerous gleam under his own
sweeping lashes. "The bloodhound is an un-
reasoning brute, who is simply useless when
you throw him off the scent."
"You will find it hard to throw this man
off the scent."
He laughed-a low, slightly mocking laugh
-which would have roused Alan to frenzy if
he could have heard it.
"On the contrary, very easy-so easy that
the fact may be regarded as accomplished."
"How can that be possible?"
"How could it be other than possible when
you consider how lacking in acuteness, how
full only of brute strength and brute tenacity
such a man is?"
"But-do you know that he is going to
Martinique?"
"Have I not said that I received your
note? Of course, therefore, I know it."
"And he will find-"
"The island, and the mountains, and no
doubt some old friends-these sailors know


80

EBB-TIDE.

people everywhere-but not the person of
whom he is in search."
"You talk enigma;" said Mrs. Erle, with
an impatient gesture. "You forget, that the
risk is as much mine as yours. I must hear
plainly what you have done."
"You will hear in a moment," he answered.
"Is not that my uncle's step?"
He turned his head as he spoke, and Mr.
Erie-handsome, smiling, debonair as ever-
entered the room. If Raymond looked thinner
and paler than he had done the preceding
May, Mr. Erie, on the contrary, looked even
better in health and spirits than on that by-
gone evening when we saw him first. Con.
treating the two faces, almost any stranger
would have regarded the nephew as the elder
man of the two, and would certainly have
been astonished to learn how the difference
of age in reality existed. In truth, the slight,
graceful, blond ~gentleman who came forward,
did not look as if the vexatious and cares of
life had ever cost him many unquiet moments,
or as if his mind was ever ruffled by any thing
deeper than the tie of his cravat, or the ar-
rangement of his golden curls. Regarding him
abstractly, it might have proved hard for the
apocryphal stranger aforesaid to realize that
this was indeed the man of whom his very
rivals admitted that no keener, shrewder,
subtler intellect had ever come within the
range of their experience-the man in whose
hands Raymond, clever as he was, had been
throughout life little more than a puppet, and
with whom had originated every well-planned
scheme which had gone to make or to secure
their common fortune.
As he passed on his way to the fire, he
,,lightly brushed his wife's forehead with his
amber mustache, a ad gave Raymond a note of
recognition. Then he took his stand on the
rug, and surveyed the company.
"Have you been talking sentiment, that
the gas is not lighted yet?" he asked, smiling.
"This firelight is very pretty, and makes my
Clytie yonder look as if she were veritable
alive; but I have a weakness for bright light
as well as for warm fires. Do you object,
rn'amie?" This to his wife, as he took a
prettily twisted and fringed allumette from a
stand on the mantel.
"Not at all," Mrs. Erie answered. "Indeed,
I should have had the gas lighted before this,
only dusk deepened into night so rapidly that
I forgot to ring for Robin; and neither Ray-

mond nor I have been doing any thing to feel
the need of light."
"You have been talking," said Mr. Erie.
"Do you call that Dot doing any thing? For
one fact that you learn from words, you can
learn twenty at least from the eyes and the
expression of the face."
"But that is a sword which cuts both
ways," said Raymond.
"Ah," said his uncle, with smiling benigni-
ty, "you mean that your own face might turn
traitor and tell tales? Bah I my dear boy,~iot
if you discipline it properly. Did Richclieu's
waxen mask ever betray him? And why
should we not all be Richdicus in private life?
There I-is not that beautiful?"
He lighted the a~lumet1e as he spoke, and
held it to the cup of a bronze lily, from which
instantly sprang a sheet of vivid white flame-
filling the whole room with dazzling radiance,
and banishing mercilessly the soft, rosy tint
of the lire. Mrs. ErIe and Raymond shaded
their eyes from the sudden glare, but Mr. Erie
regarded it steadily. "There cannot be such
a thing as too much light I" he said, emphati-
cally; yet in consideration of the optical weak.
ness of his companions, he tempered the jet
with a porcelain shade,.that mellowed the white
glow to a lustrous moonlight. Then he came
back and resumed his place on the hearth-rug.
After a moment's silence, Raymond looked up
and spoke.
"I am sure you would not have left the
office unless some answer had come," he said.
"What was it?"
*" Now that the gas is lighted, you can
read for yourself" said Mr. Erie, taking a
folded paper from his pocket and handing it to
him.
The young man received it with something
of a flush on his clear, dark cheek. When
fortune or. ruin is staked on a single chance, a.
single turn of the wheel or throw of the dice,
does not the most immovable gambler betray
the sharp tension of hope and despair by so e
such token as this-some token so slight thpt
only the keenest ~ye could detect it? Raymond's
dark lashes swept his cheek as he glanced pver
the few lines written on a slip of paper eon-
taining the printed form of the telegraph
company-but when they lifted, there was a
bright, satisfied glow in the eyes thus un-
veiled.
"You asked what I had done," he said to
Mrs. Erie. "Read that."

I

CHECKED AND CHECKMATED,

She took the paper eagerly from his out
stretched hand. It was a short telegram
dated in New York, at four o'clock that after
noon, and signed by a business agent of the
Erie house, containing these words:
"Your message has becn received and en
closed in a letter to Mrs. Erie's address. The
steamer leaves punctually at twelve, 'to-mor.
row."
She read these lines twice over, before
looking i~p. Then:
"I see-.partly but not entirely," she said,
"Tell me exactly what it means."
"What it means," repeated Raymond,
rising like a man who flings off some great
weight, and standing by his uncle's side. "It
means that your 'bloodhound' is thrown off
the sccnl-that he is checked and check-
mated at ~is very first move."
"Belt'airne, you do injustice to your own
quickness of perception," said Mr. Erie, break-
ing in here with a smile. "Placed in Ray-
mond's position, your own instincts would
have suggested, I am sure, exactly what Ray-
mond has done. When Alan was kind enough
to tell you that he was going to Martinique
(or at least something equivalent to that),
what was your first thought?"
"One of despair," answered Mrs. Erie.
"I knew that he could go there as soon as
Raymond could, and equally of course as soon
as a letter. I confess I saw no mode of
escape."
"And I confess that I shared the same
feeling for a short time after he left me,"
said Raymond. "I did little more than curse
the fate which failed to bring his letter, and
thus left me unprepared for his appearance.
But my uncle came in, and his first word was
a ray of light in the darkness."
"I merely made a suggestion," said Mr.
Erie, modestly. "Your mind at once caught
at it, and supplied every thing necessary for
following it out. You had been shocked, and
had not quite recovered from the effect of it-
that was all. In a little while the same idea
would have occurred to yourself."
"I am not so sure of that," said Raymond,
a little bluntly. "Your suggestions, sir, are
always somehow the germ of all that comes
after. Well, at all events" (speaking to Mrs.
Erie), "my unule asked me when the mail.
steamer for the West Indies left New York-
and, like a flash, I saw what to do! I remem-
6

81

- bered that the steamer left either to-day or to-
morrow, giving, as you perceive, no time for a
- letter or for my own departure, but being as
conveniently ready for a telegram as if it had
been my private property. I telegraphed,
therefore, to Forbes to the following effect"
(he took a note-book, from his pocket and
read): "'Write by the Martinique steamer
to Mrs. Raymond Erie, care Delaroche &amp; Co.,
St. Pierre, Martinique, giving this message:
"Do not wait for me, but leave the island at
once for France, via any port on the continent
of Europe, Do not delay a day, but write me
from Paris. I will meet you there." Enclose
the present telegram as an authority, and an-
swer at once, saying when steamer will leave.'
Now" (closing the book and returning it to
the breast-pocket of his coat), "you have
heard that the stearher leaves New York to.
morrow at twelve o'clock. Could any thing,
short of a balloon, get a man who is in Charles.
ton now, there in time to leave in it?"
"When does the next steamer leave?"
"The next direct steamer does not leave
for a month. He must therefore take some
indirect steam-line, or else go in a sailing-
vessel. In either case the bird will have flown
before he reaches the island."'
"Are you sure that she will go?"
"Perfectly sure of that"(very dryly).
"I cannot help doubting it. She is both
perverse and obstinate."
"Not with me," said Raymond, dryly,
again. "She knows that whenl amin earnest,
I am not to be trifled with, and I am perfectly
satisfied that she will obey that telegram as
soon as she receives it."
"But he / Will nothis suspicions be more
than verified when he reaches Martinique and
finds her gone?"
"Whyshould they be when he wiihave no
proof of my having had any communication
with her? Not that it matters, however, if they
are. She will be gone."
"He can follow her to France; and I think
he will!"
Raymond shrugged his shoulders.
"Let him! Once in Paris, I defy him!"
"And then," said Mr. ErIe's quiet, pleasant
voice, "you forget, my love, that in Paris he
will find ~adelon Lautrec; and Madelon has
wonderful dramatic capabilities undeveloped.
I always told you that. Trust me, a little self-
interest will develop them amazingly."
Mrs. ErIe glanced from one to the other-.


82                         EBB-TIDE.                                                                 AN EMPTY NEST.

from the clear, handsome, dark face, to the fair,
handsome, blond one-as if trying to take in
the full significance of her husband's words.
Then the white lids fell over her eyes, and
the white hands lying in her lap clasped them.
selves together.
"I see!" she said. "But it is a dangerous
game.
"What game worth the playing is not dan-
gerous?" asked her husband, with something
like an inflection of disdain in his well-modu-
lated voice. "By-the-by, I forgot to say that
Major Dunwardin will look in after tea for a
game of whist. Do you think you would
care to play if you were entirely certain of
the result?"
"I am no coward," said Mrs. Erie. "But
some risks seem to me too great to be run.
I may be wrong, or I may be right, but
1 distrustt Madelon; an&amp;I should never, un-
der any circumstances, allow her to meet
Alan."
"You forget," said Mr. Erie, with un-
moved quietness, "where Madelon's interest
lies. She is in the same boat with ourselves,
and no degree of sentiment is likely to induce
her to throw herself out, only to be drowned."
"Still it would be safest-"
"Always to play a bold game," interrupted
he, putting out his hand and smoothing her
hair with a caressing motion. "Cowardness
has wrecked more fortunes than rashness ever
did, rn'atnie. If the ebances were a thousand
to one against success, I should still ~take all
on the one chance. But as it is "
"The chances are a thousand to one for
success," concluded Raymond, as he paused.
"Exactly," said Mr. Erie, smiling. "And
after a time we may hope that our marine Don
Quixote will fall in love with somebody else ann
go back to his legitimate business. Until then,
our friend here" (smiling at Raymond), "will
have to prosecute his training in a diplomatic
point of view, for I agree with you" (this to
Mrs. Earle), "in thinking that even brute cour-
ag~1 when once roused, may be dangerous.
But muscle is no match for mind, in the long.
run, and what Raymond has I am sure Ray.
mond will keep."
"To the last gasp 1" said Raymond, be-
tween his set teeth.
His uncle patted him on the shoulder ap.
provingly, then turned away, and, humming in
a soft tone of voice the "Ak! eke la mot-te,"
walked across the room toward the lovely

statue in the bay-window; before which he
paused.
"Women of flesh and blood," said he, med-
itatively, "are sometimes sources of great an-
noyance, but, to compensate for it, wemen in
marble are certainly sources of rare enjoyment.
Could any thing be more exquisite than this
Clytie? Ah, Raymond my dear boy, when
will you learn to love art as art should be
loved! For myself," he ~vent on, casting a
regretful sigh over his shoulder, "I confess that
I should have been the happiest man in the
world if Fate had only been kind enough to
have made me a sculptor!"
CHAPTER V.
AN EMPTY NEST.
.4.s all the world knows (or might know, if
it felt any interest in the matter), communica-
tion with the different islands of the West In-
dies is not quite so open and direct as with
Liverpool, Havre, or Bremen; in coasequenec
of which fact it followed that, despite a great
deal of fiery impatience, Alan Erle verified his
brother's kind prediction, and was some time in
reaching his destination. In truth, the month
of January was wellaigh spent when a steamer
from St. Thomas touched at St. Pierre, the
commercial metropolis of Martinique, and
landed several passengers. Of these passen-
gers, Alan was one. Declining the kind in-
vitation of a fellow-traveller (a creole planter
who had taken a great fancy to him, and who
pointed out his pleasant country-seat as they
ran along the shore of the island), the young
man made his way to an hotel, and thence,
without loss of time, to the commission-house
of Delaroche &amp; Co., whom he remembered as
the business agents of Colonel Vivicux.
Arriving at the latter place, the mention of
his name proved a passport which admitted
him at once to the senior partner-a white-
haired old Frenchman, courteous as all
Frenchmen are, and sallow as all inhabitants
of the tropics soon become-who manifested
a considerable degree of surprise at sight of
him.
"Erie !-Monsicur Erie!" said he, looking
in almost amusing bewilderment at the tall,
stately figure, and bronzed, handsome face be-
fore him. "I beg your pardon, Monsieur; I
fancy there is some mistake" (bowing as only

a Frenchman can bow), "I was told that Afon- j eyes which age had net robbed of their bright-
aieur Erie desired to see me." J ness or their keenness. Then, dropping the
"Erie is my name," answered Alan, in glass with a little click, he answered with Un.
French as good as he could muster. "But it diminished courtesy:
was my brother, Raymond ErIe, perhaps whom "Madame Erie is on the ocean at present,
you expected to see." monsieur. She left the island last week."
"Yes, it was Monsieur Raymond Erie whom   "Left the island!"
I expected to see," said M. Delaroche. "But" If a chasm had ya~vned beneath Alan's
(with another bow), "you have the happiness feet, he could scarcely have been more aston.
to be his brother" (" A very precious happi. ished. Left the island! Ermine left the isi.
ness 1" thought Alan, grimly). "In that case, and, while her husband was in Charleston!
it affords me great pleasure to make your ac- Thought has lightning.wings, as we all know,
quaintanee, monsieur." and, while he still gazed silently at M. Dela-
It was now Alan's turn to bow, and to roche, he was wondering if despair had driven
mutter something about "pleisir" and "ken- her to this desperate step-if, like many an-
neur" under his mustache. He certainly had other wretched woman, she had found too
not come with any intention of exchanging late the weight of the chain which she had as-
complime~its with Ermine's business agent, but sumed?
the graceful and unaffected courtesy of the "Left the island, monsieur 1" he said, at
Frenchman shamed the brusque directness with last. "Pardon rae, but I scarcely think that
which his countrymen (learning a faithful can be possible. My brother is still in Charles.
lesson front those admirable models of breed. ton-unless" (a sudden angry thought send-
ing, their English forefathers!) thought and ing blood to his brow and fire to his eye) "he
still think it necessary to treat every thing relat- has reached Martinique very recently."
ing to the ordinary affairs of life. Having ac- "Your brother has not returned to the
cepted a seat, he was silent for a few minutes island since he left it in December, monsieur,"
-trying to collect his thoughts, which of late answered M. Delaroche, quietly.
had acquired a habit of deserting him at the "And yet his wife has gone! How did
moment of need-and, since he did not pro. she leave ?-and when ?-and with whom?"
duce any thing like the letter which M. Dela- Up went the eye-glass agnia. With all his
roche very likely expected, that gentleman courtesy, it was very evident that M. Dela-
spoke again. roche did not understand this excessive anx-
"In what way, monsieur, can I have the iety and interest in-a brother-in-law.
honor of serving you?"  ~                    "Madame Erie;" said he, a little formally,
Alan started. His truant thoughts came "came over from Fort de France last week.
back with a flash, and he blushed like a school. She did my wife and myself the honor of re-
boy as he said, quickly: mining with us a few days-having business
"Pardon me, I should have explained. I to transact before she took her departure.
have often heard Mademoiselle St. Amand- She was anxious, also, to procure a companion
that is, Madame ErIe-speak of you, and, hay- for the voyage. Fortunately, a lady-an es-
ing just landed in Martinique, I thought I timable widow of our acquaintance-was re-
should save time if I came to you at once to turning to France, and Madame Erle-"
inquire where I can soonest find her."       "To France!" said Alan, interrupting this
"I am always happy to afford information history with merciless impetuosity. "To
to any friend of Madame Erie's," was the suave France, monsieur! You must be mistaken!
reply. "But, in the present instance, I fear Surely Ermine-surely Madame Erie went to
that you will be disappointed. The lady of America, if she went anywhere?"
whom you speak cannot be found anywhere "Your pardon, monsieur, she went to
very soon. She is not in Martinique." France," said M. Delaroche, with unchanged
"Not in Martinique!" repeated Alan, pal- courtesy. "I had the honor of attending to
lag as suddenly as he had flushed the moment all her arrangements, and of bidding her adieu
before. "Good Heavens! What do you mean? on the deck of the steamer Vile do Paris,
Where is she, then?"                      which sailed for Marseilles last Wednesday."
The old Frenchman put up his eye-glass and He spoke with a positive certainty, which
regarded the young man for a moment with could not have failed in carrying conviction t~

AN EMPTY N1sST.


84

EBB-TIDE-.

the most obstinately incredulous, since we
cannot well disbelieve that which a man tells
us he has seen with his own eyes, and heard
with his own ears. To poor Alan-for whom
the tide of fortune had, to all appearance,
ebbed indeed-the realization of this second
shocki was terrible. Almost involuntarily, he
put out his hand to grasp some steadying sup-
port. Gone ! But whsy had she gone ? That
was the question which sprung instantly to
his mind, and which his lips uttered-a little
hoarsely:
" This is strange news," he said ; " so
strange, that I shall be glad if you can throw a
little light upon the matter. What reason did
my sister-in-law" (he uttered the last words
'with a sort of savage emphasis) "give for such
a sudden and extraordinary departure ?"
" Monsieur," answered the old Frenchman,
with an air so stately that it would not have
misbecome a Dc Rohan, " Madame Erie gave
no reason for her departure, and it certainly
never occurred to me to ask her for one."'
" Perhaps you think it singular that I
should ask for one," said Alan, amused in a
certain unamused way by the quietness of this
rebuke. "But you must do me the justice to
remember that the lady of whom we speak is
my brother's wife " (why is it that we some-
times find a fierce pleasure in stabbing our-
selves with our own words, as Alan stabbed
himself with these ?); "I have a right to feel
some interest in her movements, therefore."
"It is a right which I have not denied,"
said M. Delaroche, with another bow."
After this, there was silence for several i
minutes. M. Delaroche coughed gently be-
hind his hand, and tried not to look as if he
expected his singular visitor to take his de-
parture ; while the singular visitor tried vainly -
to think how he could best introduce several
questions which might fairly be said to burn
his tongue. He would quite as soon have
thought of cutting his throat as of giving to
this stranger even a hint concerning his story,
yet-how else excuse, how else account for
his interest in the affairs of his "brother's 4
wife ?"
" Monsieur," said he at last, with a wistful
accent in his voice, and wistful look in his
eyes, "you say that Madame Erie spent sev-
eral days in your house before her departure. I
You must therefore have seen her very con-
stantly."
Again M. Delaroche bowed. Surely, by-

the-by, a Frenchman's backbone must be
composed of much more pliant material than
that of other people (people of the race of
pokers, otherwise Anglo-Saxons, especially),
else how would the constant demand for bows.
be so constantly honored as it is by that ur-
bane and charming people ?
" I had that honor, monsieur," said he.
"Perhaps, then," said Alan -desperate
now, and determined to fight his way to the.
truth through any opposition or misunder-
standing-" you will allow me to ask if she-
impressed you as a happy or a contented
woman ?"
" Monsieur !"
The old Frenchman moved a little back-
ward in his amazement. For a moment he
thought of lunacy, and cast about in his mind
for a means of rescue from this ecentric com-
panion-but something sad as well as Isane in
the clear sea-colored eyes regarding himn, went
far to reassure these fears-.
" Monsieur," said he, " I confess that I do-
not comprehend you."
" I am aware that my French is by no,
means very good," said Alan, smiling faintly.
"Still I think you might comprehend mne-if
you desired to do so. Understand this," he
went on, earnestly and a little proudly, " I ask
nothing which the strictest sense of [honor
could prevent granting. I came here hoping
to see Madame Erle. I am an old and deeply-
attached friend, besides being" (a bitter ac-
cent here) " a newly-made relative. You tell
me that she is gone, and that I have had my
voyage for nothing. ,At least, then, I can ask
a 'question which my own eyes would have
answered for me, if I had seen her-at least
you can tell me if she seemed happy ?"
Said Ra'ymond once, in speaking of his
brother: ".The secret of Alan's success in life
is his moral force. That gives him an ascen-
dency over men independent of any other
power. He says to them, 'Do this,' and they
do it before they stop to consider that he had
not the least right to issue such a command."
On the ground, then, of this moral force-a
subtle but certainly a manifest weapon of ag-.
gression-we may account for the effect which
this last speech had upon M. Delaroche. The
eye-glass came into play again, but Alan's-
honest face seconded his honest words so well.
that the old man could not distrust their evi-
dence-full as he was of shrewd, worldly cx-
perience.' Now, although we are accustomed.

I

I

U

AN EMPTY NEST-.

I

85

to think that worldly-wise people are also, of
necessity, suspicious people, it remains a ques-
tion whether the man who suspects every
thing is not farther removed from trustworthy
knowledge of his kind, than he who believes
every thing. One thing is certain: if worldly
wisdom indeed be worth the price which some
of us are willing to pay for it, it should be-
stow upon us the power of discriminating be-
tween what is true and what is false, what is
genuine and what is sham, by some infallible
test. Real worldly wisdom does this ; spuri-
ous worldly wisdom (the kind which flourishes
before our eyes to such an aggravating extent)
never achieves it. With the disciples of the
latter school, "to doubt," is the only verb
which they are able to conjugate.
This, liowever, is a digression. Said M.
Delaroche, kindly, but with a certain stiffness .
" If you had seen Madame Erle, monsieur,
I think you would have been satisfied that she
bears no outward signs of unhappiness. Of
her inner life ".-with a French shrug-" God
and herself alone can tell."
" Does she seem in good health ?" -asked
Alan-thirsting as men in a desert thirst for
water, for one glimpse of the face on which
his companion's eyes had rested so recently.
" In very good health, I think," said M.
.Delaroche, looking a little puzzled. "She is
pale and slender, but I should say that both
these facts were constitutional with her."
"Yes, she was always pale and slender,"
said- Alan, remembering, with a sharp pang,
how often he had likened her graceful, stain-
less beauty to adl1iy. '
There was another pause. This time M.
Delaroche did not try not to look as if he ex-
pected this peculiar visit and more peculiar
catechism to end-and Alan saw the expecta-
tion very plainly. He rose to his feet, there-
fore.
" I have to thank you for a very courteous
reception, monsieur," said he, "and to express
my regret at having troubled you. Before I
leave Martinique, however, I should like to see
and to enter the St. Amand house, of which I
have heard Ermine speak very often. Is it
possible to do so ?"
"Perfectly possible," answered M. Dela-
-roehe. -"I shall be happy to furnish you
with a letter of introduction to the persons
left in charge of the establishment, and they
will give you admittance at once."
"It is in Fort de France, is it no  "

"In the neighborhood of Fort de France-
a most beautiful place, and I assure you, mon-
sieur, the finest sugar-plantation on the island.
Its yield during the past year has been enor-
mous."
"Indeedi!" said Alan, listlessly. "But it is
only the house I desire to see."
In fact, he felt wrathful toward the unof-
fending plantation, and would have been glad-
to invoke the green waves of the sea to cover
its fertile acres. Would not Ermine still have
been his but for those hogsheads of sugar, and
the tempting sum which the accumulation of
their proceeds had made during a long mi-
nority ?"
After this, he -and M. Delaroche parted
very amicably. Having been questioned con-
cerning the mode of reaching Fort de France,
and having answered that the small passen-
ger-steamer which plied between the two ports
would not go down until the next morning, the
latter yielded to a sudden attack of that mania
of hospitality which afflicts everybody in these
"Summer isles of Eden, lying in dark-purple spheres
of sea"'
and begged Alan to do himself and his wife
the honor of dining with them that evening.
This, however, Captain Erle declined, pleading
the weariness of being just off a voyage-
which would have been a sufficiently absurd
excuse from any one, but was most particularly
so from a sailor-and, with renewed compli-
ments, and much moreplaisir and Aonneur, on
both sides, he and M. Delaroche parted and
went their ways like two ships of different na-
tions, which, having met in foreign seas, ex-
change a few words of friendly greeting, and
then pass on-to cross each other's paths
never again.
Often as Alan had been within the tropic
belt-often, indeed, as he had cruised in the
enchanted waters of the Spanish Main, and
lingered among the fairy islands which these
waters encircle-he was almost tempted to
think that he had never appreciated the full
glory of tropical scenery until he stood on the.
deck of the steamer which ran from St. Pierre
to Fort do France, and looked at the panorama
of sea and shore spread before him. Was it
because this was Ermine's native island--the
island of which she never spoke save in tones
of tenderest affection-that it bore to his eyes
such a radiant seeming ? This may have been


88                  ~~~~EBB-TIDE.                                                            AEMT        S.8I

so, since we J~now that love has power to gild
all things connected with the beloved.. Yet,
apart from such association, any one blessed
with that keen sense of the beautiful which is
classed under the general and indefinite head
of "loving Nature," might well have been en-
raptured, for, in all the lovely tropical world,
there is no lovelier spot than the fair isle of
Martinique!
It is mountainous, as everybody knows
(that is, everybody who has paid proper atten-
tion to the study of geography), and when we
put mountains, and sea, and tropical vegetation,
and a tropical sky together, what more of
beauty can we have, short of that Celestial
Country o*vhich we dream, ~na of which St.
Bernard wrote? Indeed, there are some of us
who, would freely sign away three hundred
and sixty-five of life's short, golden days to
gaze at length upon the scene on which Alan
gazed that morning. It was a glorious morn-
ing-even for the tropics-and, through the
sparkling purple air, the blue, misty hills in
which the birthplace of the Empress Josephine
is pointed out to strangers, seemed marvellous-
ly close at hand, while the foreground of the
coast, with its shining beach, its feathery
palms, its fields of Bugar-cane, and its pictu-
resque country-houses, tunde 'a picture never to
be forgotten. Of the nearer mountains, robed
in the gorgeous robes of tropical verdure, there
are no words to speak! And then the sea,
the divine, translucent sea! Ah, it was a
thing of which to dream; stretching away in
lustrous calm beneath a sky like a vault of
sapphire, yet changing and shifting in opales-
cent glory with every ray of light which the
sun sent through the wide world of space to
kiss its laughing waters!
The quiet little town of Fort de France
looked as quiet as tropical towns always look
after sunrise and before sunset, when Alan
reached it. The St. Amand residence-by
name Lieu Ddsir6-was ~a f~ miles distant,
and, the climate rendering pedestrian exercise
out of the question, it Was some time before
the young knight-errant could find any mode
of conveyance to the shrine which he had
made up his mind to visit. At last, however,
his efforts were crowned with success, and he
set forth in the face of a heat which inhabit-
ants of the temperate zone would find it hard to
associate with the thought of January. But
sunstroke, like hydrophobia, is fortunately un-
'known in the tropics, and the roads, like every

thing else in the island, were admirable. Leav-
ing the town and the beach behind, Alan soon
found himself in the open country. To one
less absent in mind, less heavy in heart, the
ride would have been like a glimpse of fairy-
land, like something too bright and magical for
reality; 'the eye was charmed at every step by
some new vista of ~chantment, ~ome new com-
bination of trees and shrubs, while on every
hand gorgeous creepers and parasites seemed
running riot in very wantonness; eventhe fields
of sugar-cane and the red-tiled countryLhouses
adding to the general impression of abounding
beauty in form and color. The road, for
some distance, at least, was of a quality that
would have done credit to a colonial Baron
llaussman. In fact, it was more of an avenue
than a road, macadamized to perfect smooth-
ness, and lined with the magnificent shade-
trees of the tropics-gigantic cactuses and
waving palms making an archway overhead
like the groined roof of a cathedral
On approaching a spur of the hills, on a
ridge of which Lieu D6sir6 was situated, the
path, however, grew less even, and the scenery
changed greatly in character, becoming more
bold, though scarcely less luxuriant, and unit-
ing the grandeur of a mountain-region with
the glowing verdure of the tropical belt, in a
manner' which defies all description. Sad and
more sad as Alan felt, he could not but halt
now and then to gaze in silent rapture on the
marvellous wealth of loveliness around him.
Grand hill-sides rose over him, crowned by
plumy sentinels, and covered by broad succu-
lent leaves and myriad flowers - fairy-like
clefts and ravines opened on every' side, giving
glimpses and suggestions of beauty, such a~
no words could paint-now and then there
was a distant view of the sea, then a flashing
stream sent up a shower of silver spray as it
tumbled over a precipice, or sang to itself with
a sweet, rippling murmur, as it glided far away
into the dim, aromatic recesses of the forest.
Everywhere flaunted the wide leaves of the
cactus, everywhere drooped the graceful foliage
of the palm, everywhere shone the passionate-
hued flowers-crimson and scarlet, golden and
purple-of this land of the sun; and every-
where a sweet, spicy fragrance came, like the
soft south wind, on "subtle wings of balm," to
add to the intoxication of the senses.
"It is no wonder that my darling is an ar-
tist!" thought Alan-forgetting how many are
born in the midst of this lavish glory, for whom

it has no more meaning or expression than sun-
light to the blind.
When he reached Lieu D6sir6, he found a
graceful and airy country-house, on the usual
tropical model-colonnades without number,
perfect irregularity of outline, French windows
opening on every side of the ground, and a
court-yard containing a fountain, overhung by
orange and lemon trees, of which he had often
heard Ermine speak. He was admitted with-
out difficulty-thanks to M. Delaroche's letter
-and as he roamed through the spacious, ele-
gant rooms, and the wide, empty galleries, the
very echo of his footsteps seemed to addto
the mournfulness of his heart. How often in
that brief; golden month of their happiness,
had Ermine and himself talked of her tropical
home, hqw often had she dwelt on every detail
of its loveliness, and how often they had pict-
ured the manner in which they would live
here-together!
Now he stood on the threshold-a stranger
and alone!
Well, it was bitter, but men's hearts are
tough, and Alan's did not break, however
much it might throb and ache. Oh, those
creams of which they had spok~n-drcams
never to be made reality! Oh, those
"Days of summer-colored seas,
Days of many melodies,"
which they had lived in fancy, and would never
live in fact! Could any sting of earth be
sharper than their mockery now? They
seemed to haunt him, as he roame~l to and fro,
through the house ~nd over the garden, drink-
ing in the glorious prospect on which l~rmine's
baby-eyes had opened first, and longing, poor
fellow! with heart-sick longing, to be some-
where-beyond the blue sea and blue sky-at
rest from this gnawing pain.
"Am I mad?" he thought, sitting down
under the orange-tree of which he had heard
Ermine speak most often-the one whose
golden fruit brushed her casement-" does
every man love like this? What is life to me
now that she has gone oat of it? Nothing!
less than nothing !-save for its duties; and
they still remain to be fought out to the end.
I should be glad. to fling the useless burden
down into the dust. I would fling it down at
her feet, God knows, if by such a means I
could spare her one pang. Oh, my darling!
my darling! my fair, stainless, gentle lily!
what devil's art has come between us and torn

from you the one man in the world who would
give his heart's blood to serve you!"
Alas! answer there was nonc. Serenely
the fair sky looked down, serenely the fountain
sent up its soft murmur and misty spray, se-
renely the glossy leaves rustled overhead, and
the cry ofthe passionate human love fell back
on the passionate human heart like the unalter-
able sentence of God.
After a while he rose and went into the
house. One more last glance around the dainty
room which the cicerone (with whose services
he had dispensed) told him was "madame's
boudoir," and then he would be ready to say
good-by forever to this fair, tropical paradise,
this sweet, empty nest from which the bird had
flown.
Round and round this room he wandered.'
It was so hard to go! Some aroma of her
presence seemed to his fancy to linger here, and
it was almost like the pain of farewell to leave
it. Every thing in the room he touched with
tender reverence, the tall Parian vases which
he could fancy her hands filling with flowers,
the keys of the piano over which her fingers
had moved, the table on which her writing.
desk and work-box had evidently stood, and
the deep, luxurious chair in which he could
almost see her slender figure nestling On a
ccuch near the chair, he sat down for a few
minutes, and, as he did so, displaced a cushion
evidently placed to support the head of a re-
cumbent figure. Under the cushion lay abook
which he took up-not because he cared in-
trinsically for any hook under the sun-but
because Ermine's hand had n&amp;doubt placed it
there. Turning over the leaves absently, he
saw that it was a novel,, and that there were
two marks between the pages-one of these
was a faded flower which he gently kissed; the
other, a card on which was written a few words
in pencil-brief yet in a measure significant,
since but for them the description of this visit
might have been consigned to the class of
"All the fine books that have neverbeen written,
And all the brightthingsthat havenever been said."
Still absently, Alan glanced at these pent
cilled words; but, as his eye fell on them, some.
thing like light and life flashed into it. "By
Jove!" he said half aloud. Then he turned
the bit of pasteboard several times over, read
the inscription again, pondered a while, finally
took out his pocket-book and carefully stored
it away. After this he rose, and, with one last

AN EMPTY NEST-

87

86


88                        EBB-TIDE.                                                              A NEW CHAMPION.                     89

glance around the vacant shrine, went out with
something almost approaching to alacrity. In
his state, a straw depresses or raises that
subde mercury which we call the spirits;
and this straw had been beneficial in its ef-
fect.
Yet if anybody wonders what it was, there
lane need to make a mystery of such a trifle
.-trifle, at least,, to all appearance-for those
few words in pencil merely jotted down a Paris
address. To some people this would not have
meant very much, but to Alan it meant a great
deal, for ii~ knew that this card had been mis-
placed through carelessness or mistake, and
that it was to tide address in Paris that Er-
mine must have gone. We have spoken of
his dogged fidelity and tenacity of purpose be-
fore; it is almost useless, therefore, to say that
this fruitless voyage to Martinique had not
damped his resolution to see his lost love, and
"learn the truth from her own lips," and that
he was still determined to follow her to France,
or, if need be, to Persia. But France is a large
country, and has a considerable number of
feminine inhabitants. A search through the
country at large would have been rather vague
-almost as vague as that of Japhet for his
father-and therefore we see the importance
of that forgotten card, left in the novel with
which Madame Erie had whiled away some
languid siesta.
When Alan returned to Fort do France, the
sun had gone down-sinking like a great ball
of fire into the placid, azure ocean-and the
world of Fort do France had begun to bestir
itself~ the first gentle movement of the land-
breeze having ended the reign of heat and
wakened that multitudinous insect choir which
the katydid leads. Poor Nix had been left at
the hotel (the heavy weight of hair which he
carried making pedestrian exercise under a
tropical sun impossible ~or Aim), and woe-
begone enough he looked as he lay with
his enormous muzzle on his leonine paws,
waiting and listening through many long hours
for his master's return. When that master
came, he rewarded his patience with the thing
which Nix liked, next best to a swim-a walk.
A military band was playing at the .?'lace
d'Arme2, and thither Alan bent his steps. It
was necessary to lounge somewhere, and this
was as good a place as any other-or better
p~rhlLps.
If he had been in anotherr mood, he would
have asked nothing b~ghter or more attractive

than the scene which he found, for the Place
d'Arrnes is situated on the very margin of the
bay; and, in the midst of the graceful, well-
dressed throng who loitered to and fro, Alan
took Nix down the beach and gave him his
heart's delight, a sei~mper in the rippling tide,
Many bright glanc4s f%~lowed the handsome
stranger and his su orb companion; but even
these fair countrywomen of Ermine and the
Empress Josephine could not win a glance
from those abstracted eyes, or quicken interest
in the abstracted face. Yet the scene was
very fair, and sometimes came back with pict-
ure-like distinctness to his memory; the rip.
pling music of the tide on its smooth, pebbly
beach, the martial strains of the band, the
laughter of rosy lips, the sound of sweet voices,
the lovely bay with its anchored ships, the dis-
tant ocean in its twilight veil, the silver sickle
of a new moon over the background of moun-
tains, the heavy drooping verdure lightly
swayed by the fragrant breath of the newly-
risen land-breeze, and, above all, the pict-
uresque assembly, the dark-eyed creole ladies,
full of French grace, and clad in French toi-
lets, the army and naval officers in their gleam-
ing uniforms, the priests in cassocks, a siste~
of charity in her white headdress followed by
a merry crew of children, here and there a
flower-girl, or vendor of sherbet and ice-cream.
It was a picture worth hanging in the gal-
lery of memory, and, as Alan went back to his
hotel, he could not be sorry that he would
carry away one such scene to gild with its
brightness the remembrance of Ermine's birth-
place.
-4--
CPTER v~.
A NEW CHAMPION.
Or all things in the world, a day of early,
opening spring is the most enticing. To make
a slight parody on Dr. Johnson's famous re-
mark about Marathon and baa, I do not envy
the sentiments of the man, or woman, or child,
Or horse, or dog, or cat, or rabbit, or any thing
that has eyes in its head and blood in its veins,
that does not feel in every fibre the divine ex-
altation of such a day! Who can willingly
stay in-doors during its bright hours? Who
does not long to bathe in the tinted sunlight, to
inhale the sweet fragrance of violets, to listen to
the merry chirp of birds, to be as merry and
chirp as loudly as they, perhaps, to fling care

to the winds, to feel the magical softness of th
purple air on cheek and brow, to watch thE
opening ~blossoms and bursting buds, to pull
tiny, feathery leaves off' the trees, and, in short
to be thoroughly pastoral and happy and
foolish. fov once in life? And if people feel
this everywhere, how much more do they feel
it in Paris-Paris, where the only question is,
what place of sweet idleness' to choose!
The gay sunshine of such a day was gilding
with a flood of glory the palaces and gardens,
the arches and columns, the boulevards and
bridges of that fairest of all fair cities, when a
lady, dressed evidently for promenade or driv-
ing, stood at the window of a pleasant saloon
overlooking a handsome, bu~y Paris street.
The lady was young, taIl, slender, and dark.
eyed; the saloon was imposing and luxurious,
full of long mirrors, and cabinets, and vases,
while the hangings and furniture were all of
white-and-gold. It seemed a fitting shrine for
the stately creature who moved slowly to one
of the mirrors tad stood th~re knotting into
negligent grace the lace strings of her bonnet,
while the silvery tint of her costume seemed in
harmony with the tender budding verdure and
the soft. blue sky outside. She had arranged
the strings to her satisfaction, and was~begin-
ing to draw on her gloves, when a sudden peal
of the door-bell made her start. She frowned'
a little and stood listening with her head
slightly bent, while something of an altercation
went on between thc visitor who rang the bell
and the servant who answered it. Finally the
latter brought in a card.
"Would madame look at this?" he asked,
in a somewhat injured tone. The gentleman
was very persistent. He insisted upon seeing
madame, and would take no denial. He was
the same gentleman who had called twice the
day before, and to whom, on both occasions,
madame had been denied.
Madame looked at the card and frowned
"Did you tell him' Not at home? '~she
naked.
"I 'told him so several times, madame."
"And what did he say?"
"He said he would wait at the porte-cockire
till madame came in, or-.-.went out."
At this~ madame stamped her pretty
foot.
"How dare he be so insolent?" she cried~
"I will not submit to it! I will not be perse-
outed in this manner, or be blockaded at my

own door! I will call in the police first-you
may tell him so, Joan."
"Oni, madame," said Jean, quietly, and
walked toward the door.
But cooler reflection prevailed in madame's
I mind before he had more than half crossed the
polished floor. She called him back, and then
asked quickly-
"Did he say any thing else?"
"He asked to see Madame Villarot," an-
swered Jean, still quietly, "but I preferred to
speak to madame first."
"Then why did you not speak to me,
stupid?" demanded madame, impatiently.
"That is just the thing! He shall see Madame
Villarot. Why did I not think of that sooner?
Admit him at once," she went on, "while I go
and toll my aunt."
As Jean walked out of the saloon by one
door, the lady left it by another. It was as
close a thing as possible-as close as we some-
times see in dramatic situations on the stage-
for the latter' door had scarcely closed on her
silvery draperies, when the former door
opened as Jean admitted the persistent visi-
tor.
This visitor, it is scarcely necessary to say,
was the tall, bronzed gentleman whom we saw
last in the Pla~ie d'Armes of distant Fort do
France-the gentleman who had found the ad-
dress of these charming apartments auprimier,
under a sofa-cushion in the boudoir of Lieu
D~sird-who looked a trifle paler than he had
done in the tropics, but who sat down quietly
in the midst of thes~ Parisian splendors to wait
for Madame Villarot.
After a short interval-during which he
heard a band playing away in the garden of
the Tuileries near by-the door of the saloon
agailx opened and admitted a slender, elegant
woman of middle age, dressed exquisitely in
half-mourning, with something about her clear
features and dark eyes which, reminding him
of both Ermine and Madelon, proved that,
whatever she was now called, she had been
born St. Amand.
Alan rose to his feet, and, as he looked at
the pale, high-bred face before him, something
like reassurance crept into his heart. There
are some people who seem to carry in their
mere presence the most eloquent assertion
of that grand old motto-.Ybblesse obli~ye. Of
these, Madame Villarot was one. No man
could see her and believe for a moment that
she could ever be made an active or passive


90                       EBB-TIDE.                                                         A NEW CHAMPION.                   91~

agent in any deception, far less in any fraud.
0niy to look at her was sufficient conviction
that her white, blue-veined, aristocratic hands
were not less stainless in reality than ii~ seem-
ing.
"With such a woman as this," thought
Alan, "my way will be clear."
"Madame," he began, respectfully, "I
have been bold enough to beg the favor of an
interview with yourself because I have been
denied all access to your niece, Madame Erle.
It is her whom I desire to see; but, failing
this, I should like to know her reason for de-
clining to hold any communication with me."
"As far as I can judge, monsieur," said the
sady, in pure Parisian French, w'~ich made
Alan exceedingly conscious of his own short-
comings in the matter of language, "my niece
is acting very prudently and with my entire
~probation in declining to see you. Will
you allow me to inquire in turn what possible
reason you can have for persecuting her as
you have done within the lasttwo days?"
"Persecuting her!" repeated Alan, while
a sudden flush dyed his sunburnt face. "Par-
don me, madame, but I cannot think that Er-
mine-that Madame ErIe regards my desire to
see her in the light of persecution! If so-"
He stopped suddenly, and swallowed his
indignant words with a gulp.
"If so," said Madame Villarot, seeing her
advantage and following it up with a very gra-
cious smile, "I am sure th~t monsieur is too
much of a gentleman to pain or distress any
one-especially a woman whom he may have
loved."
"A woman whom I do love, madame," cor-
rected monsieur, coolly, " and whom I have
followed across the Atlantic that I may learn
from her own lips the truth concerning her
marriage. Have you heard my story, ma-
dame?" he went on, "or shall I weary you if I
repeat it? Otherwise my conduct may seem
to you to need an excuse."
"I have heard the outline~ of your story,
monsieur," answered Madame ~Villarot, kindly,
"and I willingly grant to you all the excuse
which you ~ay desire to claim. But do you
not see that you are too late ~ The marriage-
knots once tied, cannot be ui~tied, and what
good, therefore, could ensue from explanation
*   of what is past?  Harm, rather, might-nay,
would-follow if you met Ermine. She herself
shrinks from the meeting. Can you not realize
this feeling, and generously respect it? Sure-

ly, if you love her, you must desire to serve
her."
"God knows that I desire nothing else,'~
said Alan, gravely.
"Then, monsieur," said the lady, with her
dark, eloquent eyes fastened full on him, "as
a gentleman and as a Christian, leave ker. I,
who have a woman's heart to feel and to sym-
pathize with you-I, who admire and respect
your rare fidelity-I bid you do this in that
holy Name which you have invoked! If you
love her, you are the last man in the world
who should linger by her side, or look into
her eyes! You are the last man in the world
who should bring dissension between herself
and the man to whom she gave her hand be-
fore God's holy altar!"
"She was mine before she was his!" said
Alan, fiercely. "She has been stolen from
me! Madame, madame, do not try to make
me believe that I have not a right to say to
her what I will!"
"It is not necessary for me to try to make
you believe it," said Madame Villarot, still
kindly, still gently; "your own conscience,
-your own sense of right and wrong-speak
to you with more authority than my feeble
voice. Monsieur, I pity you from my soul,
for I see the fight which you will have to
wage-and it is a fight in which there can be
no compromise. Now, listen to me-you ac-
knowledge that you love my niece?"
"Yes," said Alan, bitterly, "one does not
unlearn the lesson of a lifetime in a few
months."
"You acknowledge also that she is mar-
ried-why or how, does not matter. It i~
enough that, being married, she is irrevocably
lost to you."
"Yes," said he, between his set teeth. "I
acknowledge that. She is irrevocably lost to
me."
"Then," said the lady, "realizing these
things, why do you still wish to see her?
What end can you possibly desire to gain by'
distracting her mind and harrowing her heart
by a last interview-which," she added, with
keen, worldly wisdom, "if once granted, would
not be the last."
"I desire one thing, madame, which you
have not taken into account," said he, almost
sternly-" that is, revenge! You are a wom-
an-a good one, I am sure," he added, ear-
nestly-" therefore, it is impossible for you to
imagine the manner in which a man's thoughts

I

turn instinctively to that resource, when he
has been injured beyond hope of cure. I
know that there has been some black villany
in this work-and I will yet lay my hand on
it. But Ermine alone can enable me to do
this."
"And what would you think of Ermine if
she gave you the information you desire,
if, in so doing, she turned against the man
who, whether for good or for evil, is her hus-
band?"
"You don't see-you don't understand__"
he broke out, vehemently.
But a white, slender hand, raised for a mo-
meut, stayed the words on his lips.
"Believe me, I understand perfectly," said
Madame Villarot, gravely. "Ah, yours is no
new casjs. We all agree that moral laws arc
very useful things as long as they do not hind
our own inclinations. When they do this,
however, we all think that we have some ex-
ceptionally good reason for bursting them
asunder. Monsieur, I am sure that you are
honorable, and I think that you will prove
reasonable-therefore, I speak to you plainly.
I entered this room inclined in a measure to
your side-thinking that Ermine might con-
sent to see you-once at least. I recognize
now that she was wiser than I. She distrusts
herself-no doubt with good cause. She dis~
trusts you-no doubt with better cause yet.
The interview, she says, would be acutely pain-
ful to her. I see now that it would be worse
than painful-it would be dangerous. Such
passions as yours are not made for playthings.
You must go! Being a gentleman, being a
Christian, you will go! And, if you are wise,
you will put land and sea between yourself
and this woman whom you love, and who is
now separated from you-irrevocably."
We have all of us heard of personal
magnetism, and once or twice in life we may
have met it, as Alan met it now in this fair,
graceful Frenchwoman. Whether the power
was in herself or in the words which she ut-
teredit is bard to say. But power of a cer-
tain subtle kind existed in every glance of her
eye, every accent of her voice-power which
it was impossible even for his obstinate will to
resist. Like wax exposed to the white heat
of fire, his fierce passion and steadfast resolve
seemed to melt away before the simple words
ok' this stranger-tlifwoman whom half an
hour before he had never seen. When she laid
her delicate, thorough-bred hand down upon his,

in the energy of herlast word, he felt as if the'
blackness of despair were gathering round hint
-as if; indeed, she left him no alternative but
to go.
"Madame," said he, after a paus~ "you
are right--I am wrong. I have acted and
wished to act like a mad fool. God forgive
me if; in trying to serve Ermine, I have only
pained and injured her! I see that I must re-
sign the hope of avenging her wrongs, since'
the blow which struck Qthers would, in a.
measure, recoil upon herself. But, madame-"
and Madame Villarot never forgot the passion-
ate eyes which met her own here-" when a
man is going forth on a long journey, never to
return, can you deny him one farewell? Can
it injure any one if he looks his last into the
eyes which have been the sweetest eyes in the
world to him for many years, or if he clasps
the hand which has lain in his a thousand
times, and was to have been l~is own? I
promise y6u that I will say nothing which the
whole world might not hear. Only let me bid
adieu" (if he had been speaking his native
tongue, he would have said "good-by," but
there is no equivalent for that sweet word in
the French language) "to the one light of my
life-and go."
Ah, love makes poets as well as fools of us
all! There was not in the world-in that fine,,
English-speaking world which has set its surly'
face against "sentiment "-a more practical.
person in the ordinary affairs of life, than Alan.
Thie. But his love for Ermine had been, in-
deed, and in a different sense from that in.
which Byron meant the expression, "of his.
life a thing apart." This life had been like a.
rough cloth, strong in fibre and coarse in
grain, but through which there ran a single
golden thread-the poetry of a love which the
rare, sweet nature of its object exalted above'
the ordinary passion which bears that much
abused name. So, when he made an appeal to
say good-by to that love forever, the love it-
self loosed his tongue, and inspired the words
whose unconscious eloquence Madame Villarot
long remembered. "Ah 1" she would often
say in speaking of him, "believe me, there was
a chevalier ~f Nature's own making-a gener-.
ous nature, a faithful heart, a love such as we
do not discover in the fine gentlemen of our
nineteenth century. T4ey fritter away their'
hearts (or whatever is supposed to do duty
for their hearts) on a hundred different follies
and fancies, until a feeble liking is all that..


92                        EBB-TIDE.                                                          DRAMATIC CAPABILITIES.               93

they have left to give .to any one; but that
man-there was passion which deserved the
name in him!"
She did not say this to the " chevalier" in
question, though-she only shook her head
and gazed at him with kind, steadfast eyes.
"Be brave!" she said. "Do not ask it.
Go without it. You do not realize-you can't
imagine-how mueh harder it would make the
separation. You would transform a wound
which is closing-I do not say healing-into
one which would be open and gaping. ~o,
my friend, no! Be generous-be courageous
-go!"
"I must see Eer-I wilt see her!" said he,
hoarsely. "You shall Dot keep her from me!
My God! madame, have you no heart, that a
you cannot even grant me this 1"'
"It is because I have a heart 'that I refuse
it," answered she, gently. "Monsieur, do you
know what you ask! When you do know,
you will thank me for standing between you
and your own desire. Once more I warn you
that this passion of yours is no plaything. On
the contrary, it is a mine of gunpowder which
one spark will ignite-and I know enough of
human nature to be sure that one sight of Er.
mine (whom you acknowledge you have not
seen for nine months) would prove such a
spark. Therefore, no such meeting shall take
place within my doors, and I am sure you are
too chivalrous a gentleman to meet my niece
elsewhere."
"0 madame," said he, bitterly, "do not
trust to my chivalry in such a matter as this.
I would set aside any thing-break through
any law-to reach Ermine. She is mine! I
have a right to meet her when and where I
will!"
"Not against 'her ow~i will," said Madame
Villarot, gravely. "Your chivalry will grant
that much, I am sure-especially when I pledge
my word as a Christian, and my honor as a
Frenchwomanthatthe thing ofallothers which
Ermine is most anxious to avoid i~ an inter-
view with yourself. The fear of meeting you
has kept her a prisoner in, the house ever
since you~have bcei~ in Paris. Now, will you
force this which she dreads upon her? Will
you distract her mind, which has settled itself
to accept the inevitable 1' Will you inflict
pain upon yourself, and worse pain upon her,
merely to gratify your own desire? Monsieur,
I think not."
Again she conquered. He looked at her

for a moment with a pale, blank face-then
quietly rose to his feet.
"Madame," said he, simply, "you have
left me nothing to say-but farewell. I shall
leave your doors a little wiser than when I en-
tered them, and   shall leave Paris to-night.
Your niece, therefore, need no longer be a
prisoner on my account. If you ~cll her any
thing f~om me let it simply be 'find bless her!'
For course~ I shall never forget the generous
kindness and sympathy with which you have
received and listened to me. The reward,
your own heart must give you. Adieu."
She held out her hand, and, as if he had
been born and bred in France, he bent and
kissed it.
"Monsieur," said she, gently, "take with
you not my pity, but my admiration. Out of
such stuff as you heroes are made!"
They were brave, gracious words, and, as he
passed out, they went with him like a cordial.
But for them, his strength might have failed
when the door closed behind him, and he felt
that the last strand of hope had slipped from
his grasp.
Meanwhile, it is hard to say what Madame
Villarot would have thought if she had only
seen, in its true colors, the cause in which she
had fought and triumphed. Pure and noble
lady that she was, we may be sure 'that it
would have gone bitterly hard with her to
know that her efforts had turned the scale of
victory for wrong against right, for treachery
against truth. Yet she might have consoled
herself by the reflection that she had battled
not for an individual merely, but for an ab-
stract principle-and that principles never
change. Yet it was at least a strange freak
of circumstance which thus arrayed such a
champion on such a side, and lent such stain-
less weapons to such a warfare. But then it
not unseldom happens "in this riddling world"
that weapons stainless as hers are unsheathed
to do battle for some cause 'which cloaks the
malicious form of a demon under the stolen
raiment of an angel of God!
When Madame Villarot went to the chain-
'ber of her niece, she found her sitting by an
open window, with the quivering sunlight
pouring down upon her idly-clasped hands,
her shining dress, her rich, dark hair (the
bonnet had been laid aside), and her white,
sculptured face. The immobility of the attitude
ruek. the elder woman with pain, as she
enteredd the room-and, crossing the floor, she

said a few words-purposely tender-hoping
that tears might break through this rigid calm.
But no tears came. Gravely, quietly, without a
movement of feature, or of glance, the girl heard
the circumstantial account of the interview-
and, when it was ended, she said in a low, even
i~oice:
"Thank you, ma tante, for your great
goodness and kindness-to him as well as to
me. Now, if you will not think me ungrateful,
will you add one favor to the rest? 'Will
you leave me, and see that I am not disturbed
until dinner?"
"But, my child, you were going to drive
with me," said Madame Villarot, kindly. "Do
you not think it woula do you more good than
staying here alone?"
"Nqt if you will excuse me. My head
aches, and I should like to be alone."
"At least let Clemence stay with you.
You may need something."
"I prefer to be alone," wus the answer.
Then with passionately uplifted eyes,
dear aunt, grant me to-day! To-morrow I
will be all you wish!"
"My child, do as you please-~-.no one,~sall
disturb you," said Madame Villarot, gently.
Then she bent down, kissed the white brow,
and gently rustled from the room.
"After all, the child is wise," she thought
-"wise to take it in this way. Perhaps it is
best to let her fight it out alone. She has a
brave heart, and the holy angels are near to
help her."
Ah, sweet lady, near indeed-ever near-
but bearing no part save that of sad spectators
in such a conflict as this.
Soon afterward , Madame Villarot drove
away fro4 the pot~te.cock~re; and soon again,
after that, a daintily-dressed lady, wearing a
heavy veil, passed out of the same door, and
took her away along the Rue Iloyale, across
the Place de la Concorde, and into the open
gates of the Tuileries, where a tall man and a
large dog had entered not long before.
-4--
CHAPTER VIL
DRAMATIC CAPABILITIES.
Tm~Tuilcries! Ali, what a chord of bitter
grief and more bitter rage-to which there
has come as yet no comfort-that name
awakens! Alas for the beautiful palace, and

its beautiful gardens! A1as, yet more, for
that fair and noble France whose own un-
grateful children have proved her bitterest
and direst enemies! On that by-gone day of
which I write, however, the bright spring sun-
shine still slept on the stately column of the
Place Vendbme, the imperial city still wore
her crown of peerless beauty, the golden grain
and the purple vintage still ripened peacefully
on the broad plains of Normandy and the
sunny hills of Provence, the noble fortresses
of France still echoed the reveillv~ of French
drums, and the royal fa9ade of the Tuileries
still crowned its beautiful terraces, while its
many windows gave back the sunshine in a
blaze of glory, like an illumination over some
great victory where French heroism and dar-
ing had again received their baptism of blood!
In the garden, with its fountains, and statues,
and green arcades, soldiers still paced, military
music played, the glittering crowd moved' to
and fro; children, followed by white-capped
nurses, scampered along the paths; people sat
on the benches under the budding chestnut-
trees, reading or gossipping, while numberless
other people strolled past; birds twittered in
the boughs, early spring flowers gleamed along
the borders, and the fragrance of bursting buds
seemed to fill the air ~ivith a delicious sense of
Nature's awakening vitality.
Fresh as Alan was from the enchanted
tropical world, the beauty of the scene pleased
and soothed him. Followed by Nix, whom he
had not admitted to Madame Villarot's saloon,
he strolled down one path after another, past
merry groups of children playing hide-and-seek
about the statues, past old gentlemen ani
young gentlemen, past grand ladies, and ladies'
who were not grand, finally paused for a mo-
ment near the music, then rose and began to.
stroll away again toward the Rue de Bivoli.
But he had not taken many steps in this direc-
tion, when a lady rose from a bench under the
soft, flickering shade, and, lifting her veil with
one hand, held out the, other.
For an instant, Alan recoiled as if he had
been shot. Ermine was so entirely in his
thoughts, that, for the space of a second, he~
almost thought she was before his sight-the
graceful figure, the clear, white complexion,
the delicate features, the large, dark eyes,
making an ensemble strikingly like her own.
Then he recognized Madelon Lautrec.
"Madelon!" said he, eagerly, so surprised~
and delighted to see her that he made one

I


-94         'EBB-Ti
-quick step forward and clasped the extended
htind in both his own-" what extraordinary
good fortune that I should meet you-other-
wise I might have left Paris without knowing
'that you were here! What are you doing ?-
where did'you come from ?"
" Have I not a right to see the world as
well as my betters ?" asked she, looking up at
'him, with the bright, mocking smile which he
well remembered, and which carried him back
-to the familiar scenes in Charleston, as if by a
flash. "Xa~ foi, M. le Capitaine, i'ailroads
from every part of the world run into. Paris,
~and for the rest-even a penniless maiden
may enjoy a bench in the gardens of the
-Tuileries for nothing!" ~
"May she?" said he, smiling a little;
"but then she must expect to share it, if an
-old friend comes by. You will sit down again,
won't you ? I have so much to say to you."
-" Yes, I will sit down again," answered
-she, lowering her veil, "but not just here.
You must remember that we are not in
Charleston now. My aunt wodld be shocked
if she knew that I was in the open and fla-
grant act .of talking with a man-absolutely a
man-without any chaperone near by to over-.
look my deportment. Under these circum-
stances, I don't care to meet any of our ac-
quaintances, and therefore I should prefer
some more secluded part of the garden."
"We can easily find one," said he. And,
side by side, they walked away, leaving the
mussic and the chief part of the glittering
throng behind them.
In Paris nobody is observed, unless it be a
pretty woman quite alone, and they soon found
'thenook of which they were in search, a pleasant
'seat just large enough for two, under a spread-
'ing horse-chestnut-tree, with a fountain play-.
ing not far off; and a group of statuaryin front.
As they sat down, Madelon felt sufficiently
-secure to take off her veil, and Alan could not
'forbear saying: -
"You are handsomer than ever, Madelon,
if that be possible."
"Am I ?" asked she, with bright, half-
lifted eyes. "I am so glad to herr it. I was
always vain, you know, and never made a pre-
tence of concealing my vanity, as most women
~do. I am proud of my beaux yeux, and I mean
to make them do me good service in this gay
-orld of Paris. Ah, Alan," with a sigh, not of
-pain but of deep enjoyment, "now I know what
~It is to live. Before this, I have merely existed."

rIDE.              (
"When did you come here ?" asked he,
absently, pulling Nix's silken ears as he spoke-.
"About a month ago," answered she, then
correcting herself with a blush, as he quickly
looked up, " How foolish I am!I You mean, of
course, when did I come to France. That was
last November. But I came to Paris a month
ago, to meet Ermine, who wrote that she
would be here at that time."
"Are you staying with Ermine ?" asked
he, looking at her in some surprise.
"Did you not know it ?" said she, re-
turning the gaze with .eyes which did not
blench or turn away. "Did not Madame Vil-
larot tell you?"
"No, she did not tell me. Why did you
not come in to see me? It would have been
only friendly to do so, and we were always
good friends, w ere we not ?"
" In America-yes. But in France there
is no such thing as friendship between a man
and a woman, unless they are brother and'
sister, or ftancei, or old as-as Mount Horeb."
Alan laughed. One can laugh even when
one's heart is broken, you know-.
"And if Madame Yillarot is such .a drag-
oness-she does not look it. By-the-by, how
do you come to be wandering about the Tuile-
ries alone ? "
She glanced up at him with a petulant mo-
tion of her scarlet lip, which was very pretty
and piquante.
"Your gratitude, monsieur, is only equalled
by your discernment. I came because Ma-
dame Villarot has gone to drive, and because
I wanted to see you-for old acquaintance'
sake, perhaps-or because I thought you
might like'to hear the news of Ermine from
Ermine's Siamese Twin, as they called me in
Charleston."
" I see that I was not wrong when I used
'to say that, notwithstanding all the keen
thrusts of that sharp sword, your tongue, your
heart was in the right place," said he, smiling
kindly. " Thank you very much, dear Made-
lon, for coming to see me, whether for old ac-
quaintance' sake, or for that other, better
reason. But " (looking a little puzzled),
"how did you know that you should find me
here ? "
She smiled-the smile of one secure of her
own discernment, and proud of her own skill-.
" I was sure of it," said she. " Could any
one-especially a stranger in Paris, with no.
friends, and no places of familiar resort-pass

I

' I

the open gates of the Tuileries without enter-
ing ? C'est impossible!/ I felt confident you
would be here, and so I caine. I saw 1dm"
(motioning toward Nix) " before I saw you.
Then I knew I had not been mistaken."
" And," said Alan, drawing his hat a little
,lower over his eyes, and setting his lips a little
more firmly under the drooping mustache,
e' and you come from Ermine ? Did she know
that you were coming to me ?"
Madelon shook her head, her bright, dark
eyes meeting his as steadily as ever. -
" No, I dared not tell her. It would have
served no good purpose, but would only have
unsettled her, and wakened the storm again.
When things are at rest, they had bcttcr be
left so," said she, with an~ expression, whiel-
he did not exactly understand, flitting across
her clear-cut, resolute lips. " Ermine's passion
has expended itself-for the present at least-
and where would be the sense of rousing it
again, of overturning every thing and of mak-
ing everybody miserable ? ,It would be worse
than folly, worse than madness, and it shall
not be done!/"
"Did you come to tell me this ?" asked
he, looking at her a little curiously, for he did
not comprehend what interest of hers could
have inspired the passionate energy which lent
force to the last words.
"Not entirely," answered she. "In fact,
scarcely at all. I thought that Aunt H6lene
might have been unnecessarily peremptory, in
refusing to allow you to see Ermine, and that
I would come and explain any thing which
might need explanation."
" You are very kind," said he, gratefully,
"kinder than I deserve. Don't mind my
brusquerie, Madelon. I never was much of a
prevux chevalier, at the best of times, but this
trouble has made me harsh and suspicious
toward every one. Your aunt was gentle and
considerate in the extreme, a woman among
ten thousand," said he, smiling slightly, " for
knowing how to govern the flux and reflux of
a man's mood. I have promised her that I
will not trouble Ermine again, and you may
be sure that I shall keep my word." -
." Did you ever fail to keep it ?" asked
Madelon, her voice toned to sympathizing soft-
ness, with just a thrill of admiration through
it-a voice admirably calculated to sink into
the depths of the confiding masculine soul.
She scorned herself for the part she was play-
ing, scorned herself with a scorn that fairly

DRAMATIC- CAPABILITIES.               95

tingled to the ends of her fingers; but, all the
same, she took an artist's pride in doing well
what she attempted to do at all. "I have
known you a long time," went on the sweet
woman-tones, seconded by the-lovely woman-
eyes, "and I never knew you to break a prom-
ise yet, Alan."
" It is more than can be said of some other
people, then," answered Alan, forgetting his
gallantry, in a sudden remembrance of his
wrongs. " Madelon, what promise did you
give me-in Charleston last May ? And how
have you kept it ?"
"If you mean the promise to befriend Er-
mine, " said Madelon, quietly, "I have done
my best toward keeping it, from that day to
the present."
" And do you call it your 'best' to have
let that scoundrel ofsa brother of mine in-
veigle, force, or persuade her into a marriage ?
-a marriage accursed, not blessed of God,
since fraud was at the bottom of it !"
" There you are mistaken," said Madelon,
still quietly - as, leaning back, she held a
dainty, lace-covered parasol to ward off' the
sun, from which the leafless boughs above
were but small protection-" there was no in-
veigling nor forcing-nor persuading, I was
about to say ; but I presume there was some
of 'that-in the marriage, and certainly no
fraud. Everybody clearly understood the
terms of his or her bargain, for" (with a
shrug) " there certainly was not much senti-
ment in the affair. Raymond wanted money:
Ermine wanted freedom to leave America.
She furnished the first-he gave the last.
'Voila tout!/"
" But she was engaged to me !" said Alan,
fiercely.
"Engaged to you!" repeated Madelon,
staring at him in honest astonishment. " Is
the man mad ? Engaged to you ! Why, you
were drowned !"
" Was I? " (with a short, unmirthful
laugh). "You see I have managed to come
to life, nevertheless."
" Well, we thought you were drowned-
which comes to the same thing. It never oc-
curred to us that you would overturn things
by coming to life again-so nobody took the
event into consideration."
" Apparently not. It showed great want
of foresight and consideration in you, Nix "
(pulling the dog's long, silky ears again), " to
drag me on that sand-bank when my strength


96

EBB-TIDE.

had given way, and I was comfortably going
to the bottom, unconscious of the good news
in store for me. We made a hard fight to
live) down there under the scorching, tropical
sun, didn't we? How much better every thing
would have been, old boy, if ~e had not made
any fight at all, but had resigned our souls to
God, and our bodies to the sharks, with what
philosophy we could muster!"
"Don't talk that way," said Madelon; "it
is sinful, and it is foolish. Of course, it was
your duty to try not to be drowned. But
then, when you came to life and found that
things were irrevocable, why could you not
have kept quiet, like a sensible man? Why
need you have come and tried to disturb and
distract Ermine's mind when it could do no
good?"
"You follow the laudable example of the
world," said he, gloomily. "Hit a man when
he is dow~i- the harder the better, by all
means! You ask me seky I did these things.
Good IThavens! You might as well ask a
mad dog why he turns and bites."
"So, you have been mad? Well, I can
believe it. But you are sane now, are you
not?"
"After a fashion-yes. At least I am
sane enough to see that, since things are ir-
revocable, I must endure, if I cannot accept
them. But it is hard to go away without see-
ing Ermine-without hearing from her own
lips why she married that man; and why she
could not have paid me the slight respect of
waiting to learn whether I was really dead, or
of giving me a few months' mourning if I
were."
"It is not necessary for you to see Ermine
that those questions may be asked," said Ma-
delon. "I can answer them as well as she.
In the first place, you know how acutely sen-
sitive she is, how intense both her sufferings
and her enjoyments always are. You ought
to be able to imagine, therefore, what a blow
the news of your death was to her. You can
fancy, perhaps, how it stunned every faculty
of her mind, and seemed to wrap her in such
a state of lethargy that she did not care what
became of her. Her only active wish was, a
desire not to return to Charleston-where, as
she often said, she had been 'so happy.' She
wanted to leave the country, but Aunt Vie-
torine refused to accompany her, and she
could not go alone. Just then, she learned
that Mr. Erle's house was on 'the verge of

bankruptcy. You know Ermine-you know
her impulsive generosity. Can you not realize
that, stunned us she was, hopeless for you,
caring nothing for herself~ she should have
been willing to sacrifice herself and her for-
tune in the only possible way?"
"But the news of my death was merely a
rumor. She should not have acted so hastily
-she might at least have waited to hear the
truth."
"And do you suppose that she did not
take every means to learn the truth? Do you
think she would ever have consented to the
step of which I speak, unless she had been
sure of your death? She clung desperately
to hope, until she had summoned to her pres-
ence, and drawn every particular from, a
sailor-your own mate-who said that he had
seen you perish. After that, how could she
doubt?"
"The infernal liar!" said Alan, between
his set teeth, while one strong hand twisted
itself in Nix's luxuriant mane, as if~ that had
been the throat of the liar in question~.
"Well, life is long, and I shall pay off that
score some day-until then, the devil can af-
ford to wait for his instrument. Good God!"
-what a passionate cry it was which seemed
wrung from his lips - "why is it that our
lives, our loves, our ver~y souls, lie at the mercy
of such villains as these?"
Life is full of such questions; but from
the blue sky above there comes no answer.
Never yet has human despair, or human pre-
sumption, wrung a solution of its perplexities
from that dread yet glorious Presence, behind
the veil of our mortality. In truth-
"Our warfare Is In darkness. Friend for foe
Blindly, and oft with swords exchanged, we strike:
Opinion guesses: Faith alone can know
Where actual and Illusive still are like."
"Well," said Madelon, after a pause,
you can see the rest for yourself. When
Ermine heard of your arrival in. Charleston,
and of your intention of coming to Martinique,
she left the island at once-preferring to take
a long ocean-voyage alone sooner than meet
you. Judge, therefore, what she felt, when you
presented yourself in Paris! Judge, if you
are acting kindly or generously in thus making
her hard lot infinitely harder to bear!"
"Is that so?" said he, in a low voice.
"Did she leave Martinique to avoid me? Poor
child! To think that I-of all men-should
become her persecutor!"

I

I

DRAMATIC CAPABILITIES.

He uttered the last words to himself. Then,
almost unconsciously, his face dropped into
his hands and he sat silent for several minutes.
Madelon would not disturb him. Unlike most
women, she knew when to be silent-when to
rest on her oars, conscious that the current
was doing her work for her better than she
could possibly do it for herself. She read
Alan thoroughly, and she did not even need to
ask "How goes the fight?" for she felt sure
that it was going excellently well from her
point of view, and that victory would soon
perch on her banners. Meanwhile, two little
birds were singing the most charming possi-
ble duet on the lightly-swaying bough just
over her lace-covered parasol; the music in
the distance was thundering away at a grand
march that made military visions dance
through the most soberly civilian brain; the
waters of the fountain rose and fell in their
marble basin with a soft plash; every now and
then loiterers strolled past, of whom one in
ten, perhaps, admired the pretty picture made
by the group-the lovely, freshly-dressed girl,
the bronzed, handsome man, the magnificent
dog lying at their feet, and the tender shadows
flickering over them. There was quite an
idyllic grace about the little scene. -Unluckily,
it is not always that the poetry of reality and
the poetry of appearance go together.
After awhile Alan looked up-somewhat to
Madelon's surprise, smiling a little.
"How quiet you are!" he said. "Did
you know that I was saying good-by to-to
every thing, and were you silent out of re-
spect? Well, it iS over-and you may be
sure I don't mean to be melodramatic about
it. I am not the first man who has lost the
woman he loved-though I can't help thinking
that mine is an aggravated case. lint, if Er-
mine can only learn to be happy, I can. bear
my own share of the robbery-for it is that.
Madelon, do you think that she is-that she
will be-happy?"
"She has learned content, at least," an-
swered Madelon. "In time-if you leave her
alone-she may very reasonably learn happi-
ness. I think she is on the road to it."
Poor Alan! Loyal and -unselfish as he
was, this was hard to hear, hard to receive as
good news," while his own heart was still
sore and sick and throbbing with great pain.
"You arc not deceiving me, Madelon? "
asked. "People sometimes think themselves
privileged to do such things, 'for your own
7

good.' For my part, it- is saying very little to
say that I should have no patience with such
a pious fraud; I would never forgive it, or
trust the author again~"
- "Don't be so fierce," said Madelon, smil-
ing. "I have committed no 'pious fraud.' I
have told you the simple truth."
"Honestly?" -
"Honestly."
"Then," said he, with a great effort," she
shall have the opportunity to 'learn happiness'
-if she can! God grant that she may! But
it is not like the Ermine whom I have known
all my life-the most faithful and gentle of
women-to find even content such an easy
lesson. I do not understand it, Madelon."
"Why not?" asked Madden, with an un-
easiness which she could not entirely conceal.
"You made a goddess of Ermine, but in reality
she is only a woman-neither better nor worse
than most of us. Then you should remember
that this blow, which is4resh with you, is old
with her. But" (eagerly), "you must not
misunderstand me-you must not think that
she is not suffering acutely, suffering so much
that I speak as her best friend when I beg you
to go out of her life, and, if possible, not to
let even your memory come back to torment
her."
"I will go," said he, sharply. "If possible,
even my memory shall not come back to tor-
ment her! I promised Madame Villarot that
I would leave Paris to-night, and, as you re-
marked a little while ago, I always try, at least,
to keep my promises. I shall keep this one.
I shall go to-night."
"Where?" asked she, eagerly-a little too
eagerly, as it chanced; but it is hard to be al-
ways oft one's guard.
He shrugged his shoulders.
"Who can tell? Not I. To the devil,
probably!. That is where people in my condi-
tion mostly go."
"Not to America ?" (again a little too ea-
gerly).
He looked at her keenly. As she had
good cause to know of old, those sea-colored
eyes could occasionally be very keen.
"No," said he, slowly, "I scarcely think I
shall go to America. Thanks for your inter-
est. But why do you ask?"
"Ermine will like to know, I amsure-for,
if you remain in Europe, her life will be passed
in a continual fever and dread of meeting
you.                  -


98                     EBB-TIDE.                                                    "MON CAMARADE!"

99

He laughed bitterly.
"And so you think the Continent of Europe
not wide enough to keep us apart? Why,
are you not content, will she not be content, if
'I covenant not to return to Paris?"
"But she may leave it."
"Tell me where she is likely to go, and I
will avoid all such places."
"It is hard to tell exactly," said Madden,
drawing her straight, dark brows together.
"We have relations in different parts of
France, and then Aunt H~ltsne talks of Baden
for the summer-of course, too, Ermine will
go to Munich and Dresden, on account of art."
"Then," with a smile which she did not
altogether like, "I am fo~rnal1y excluded from
France and Germany. Pray does Italy share
in the prohibition?"
"I don't know," said Madelon, rising and
looking a little offended. "You seem to think
that I have some interest to serve in the mat-
ter. I only spoke for your own good and for
Ermine's~ Of course it is a matter of indiffer-
ence to me where you go."
"Forgive me, Madelon," said he, rising
too, and standing before her. "Don't let us
part in vexation. That would be a poor return
for your kindness in coming to meet me. I
had no right to speak so rudely; but I meant
ziothing-save that such things come hard on
sne. I will do my best to keep clear of Er.
mine's path-I promise you that. Now, must
you go?"
"Indeed I must," answered she, with a
dismayed glance at her watch. ."Aunt H6-
lone will be back, and what will she think of
m&amp;? No, no, Alan, you must not come with
me-that would be adding double weight to
the enormity of the misdemeanor. You must
say good-by here, please "-putting out an ex-
quisite little gray hand.
~' I suppose you know best," said Alan, tak-
ing it, regretfully, "but it seems hard lines that
I cannot even walk with you to your own door.
Think better of it, Mtsdelon, and let me make
your excuses to Madame Villarot. We are
such old friends!"
" Good Heavens, no ! " cried Madelon,
aghast at this proposal-as well, indeed, she
might be, since the game which she was play-
ing would have delighted Mr. Erle for its bold-
ness !-~' she would never forgive me! And
you, Alan-surely you would not return to the
very house which holds Ermine."
"This minute, if I thought only of myself,"

answered Alan. "No-you needn't start. I
try to think of her, and so it is not likely that
I will do it. Confound that impertinent fel-
low!" (glaring at a loiterer who had lifted his
eye-glass in passing, and taken a scrutiny of
the pair more keen than polite). "Are these
French manners, Madden?"
"They are manners of all over the world,
I fancy," said Madelon, smiling, "when a gen-
tleman continue$ to hold a lady's hand in the
most affectionate manner on a public prome-
nade. Say good-by, Alan-I really must go!"
"Good-by, then," said. Alan, giving the
hand in question a pressure which made it
ache for a good ten minutes afterward. "God
bless you, dear Madelon-and stand by her as
a faithful friend!"
"I will," said Madelon.
And she absolutely meant it.
CHAPTER VIII.
"MON CAMAB4DE!"
"Lx micux est l'enncmi de bien," says a
sensible French proverb-and a better exam-
ple of its truth could not be given than that
which the interview just concluded had af-
forded. "Le micux" had certainly proved
with Madelon, in marked degree, "l'enncmi de
bien." Every thing which she desired had
been effected for her by Madame Villarot, yet
she distrusted so thoroughly the sincerity and
stability of Alan's resolution that she was not
content until she had endeavored to lend to
this resolution added force. The result was,
that she overshot her mark-as many a clever
archer has done before.
Having already spoken of the spell of good-
ness and honor which seemed breathed like an
aroma over Madame Villarot, it is almost un-
necessary to sa~ that it was this alone which
enabled her to conquer Alan's stubborn will,
and to induce him to leave the woman he
loved. But there was no such magnetism
about Madelon. Fascination of a certain sort
was hers, in I~ountWul measure; but it was the
fascination which dazzles-not that which in-
spires an abiding sense of trust. No one could
ever say of her, "I believe in this woman be-
cause goodness and purity are written on her
face;" it was only possible to say, "I believe
in this woman because she is of exceeding
fairness because her voice is sweet, and her

I

I

eyes are eloquent." Now, this is a mode o
reasoning with which ninety-nine men out of
hundred are eminently satisfied, and, no doubi
if Alan had been in love with the fair face, th
sweet voice, and the eloquent eyes in question
he would have found it satisfactory alse
But, as it chanced, he had always distrust
the beautiful creole; and never did this dis
trust press so strongly upon him as after he ha(
given that parting clasp to her daintily-glove
hand, in the garden of the Tuileries.
When she was gone, he sat down again oi
the bench from which he had arisen, and ad
dressed himself to the task of" thinking over'
the interview just ended. The more he though
it over, the stronger the feeling of distrust
which at first had been purely unconscious, be
came. Her s~ count of Ermine's marriage wa~
plausible enod~h-that he acknowledged-.bui
her eagerness to send him out of Paris, hei
desire to keet( him far from Ermine's possibh
path of life, struck him as suspicious. It was
true this might have been accounted for on thc
score of unselfish affection toward her cousin
-but no one who knew Madelon could possi-
bly have affirmed that unselfish affection was
her strong point. Self had always subordi-
nated every other consideration with her, de-
spite a certain fitful attachment to a few per-
sons, a certain fitful power of making now
and then a sacrifice-provided always that
there was some element of grandeur about it.
With the glamour of her eyes and smile with-
drawn, her words, which still lingered in Alan's
memory, seemed to have the ring of false coin
-coin which, instead of being sterling gold, is
base metal-and, try as he would, he could
not baniak this impression. When he left
Madame Villarot, notwithstanding all his Nt-
ter pain and sadness, he had felt secure, secure
that truth, and truth only, had been spoken to
him, secure that, with that gentle lady, Ermine
would at least be free from annoyance or pain.
He was ready to leave Paris then, ready to go
back to America and covenant never again to
look upon the sweet face of the woman he
loved. But all this was changed when Made-
len's ill-omened beauty and fascination crossed
his path. He distrusted her-he said that
again and again to himself-swearing, too, a
deep oath that she would not compass her
end, whatever that end might be. "She is
Raymond's tool, no doubt," said he, bitterly-
"paid, very likely, to keep me from seeing
Ermine! Wellwhat I have promised, I will

C do-the more readily since Ermine herself is
a anxious to avoid me. Madame Villarot's word
~, is good for that. I shall leave Paris to-night.-.-
e but I shall not leave the Continent of Europe.
, My health is suffering from the hardships of
my shipwreck, and a little travel will do me
I good. We need to shake off morbid feelings
and thoughts, don't we, Nix? We wilt shake
I them off, too, old boy! We'll climb Mont
I Blanc, and sail on Lake Leman, and go to see
your canim~ brethren at the Hospice of St.
~ Bernard. Mademoiselle Lautrec is very clever,
- but w~h all her cleverness she has not disposed
of us ~t-and by the Heaven above, old dog,
she never shall!"
From which it will be seen that Mademoi-
* selle Lautrec had certainly overre~tched herself
in no slight degree. ,After all, it is a fortu-
nate thing that the good old times of poisoned
roses and gloves are over-else Captain Erle's
days might have come rather ab\uptly to an
end, if Madelon had chanced to overhear or
suspect the resolution with which his soliloquy
* had closed.
*    Madelon, however, had gone home con-
* gratulating herself on the successful issue of
her bold experiment , had looked approvingly
at her fair face in the mirror draped with
p~le-blue hangings, had laid aside her prome-
nade costume for a gold-colored silk with a
golden rose in her dark hair, had clasped on
her statuesque arms and neck the jewels for
which she had signed away her honor, had
finally gone forth to astonish Madame Villarot
by "her wonderful fortitude," and to win the
admiration and flattery which had become as
necessary to her existence as the air she
breathed. She was so exultant over the bright
prospect opening before her, that it required
all her well-trained dramatic power to preserve
even a semblance of pensive sadness. She
would have liked to laugh, to sing, even to
dance along the polished floor, bidding life come
and be enjoyed. Did she feel no remorse over
her accomplished work? She would have
laughed in your face if you had suggested
such a thing, and told you that she was not
"sentimental."
These things were her rights-.-this wealth,
and enjoyment, and happiness-and Alan was
the robber who had come to wrest them from
her. Why should she not be~glad, then, that
she had so successfully met obstinate strength
with subtle strategy, and done the best, not
only for herself; but for everybody else?

98

EBB-TIDE.

" MON CAMARADE ! "


100

EBB-TIDE.

"Belle it faire peur!" said she, making a
sweeping courtesy before one of the grand
mirrors of the saloon, as the soft wax-lights
- flashed, back from her diamonds. "Now, at
last, I am happy !-now, at last, I live the life
for which I was born! If that horrible man
would only go and be drowned in earnest, my
cup of felicity would be full to the brim!"
The horrible man, thus devoted to watery
destruction, had, several hours before ~this
time, left his pleasant seat in the garden of the
Tuileries, and strolled away into the busy
city-the city so wonderful that one might
think it enchanted if one did not know that
here, as well as elsewhere, tears are shed,
pangs suffered, and death-gasps given. But~
these things seem far away out of sight. To
the stranger there is nothing to suggest such
awful, and, alast such common extremes and
possibilities of human anguish. It is her
brightest face which the fair city shows on the
Rue do Rivoli, the Faubourg St.-Honor6, the
Palais Royal, the Champs Elyades, and the
beautiful Bois with the glory of sunset re-
flected in its magical lakes. The very atmos-
phere seems golden' with the glamour of fan-
cy and the poetry of romance! In Notre-
Dame the air is full of faint fragrance, like a
dream of incense, while a stream of light, fall-
ing athwart the marble pavement, pales with
its glory the steady lustre of the sanctuary
lamp suspended in front of that majestic altar
on which the hands of martyred prelates have
offered the consecrated Host. Under the
grahd old arches that have echoed the divine
eloquence of Lacordaire, shadowy forms pass
to and fro; here and there, at the difibrent
chapels, candles flicker in the redllow gloom;
every thing is full of harmony, every thing is
wrapped in tranquil silence and holy repose.
Little as Alan could boast of any thing
save that natural reverence which it speaks
ill for any man to forget, the gay sunshine and
the jostlln~ crowd jarred on him, as he came
out from the dim, religious hush of the great
cathedral, and bent his restless steps toward
the Louvre. If he was not an artist, at least
he had artistic appreciation in no common de.
gree; so it was no wonder that the remaining
hours of the afternoon were all spent among
the marvellous paintings and statuca gathered
in those great, golden halls. It was worth
while to roam and loiter there at will,,and after
a time to watch the close of the radiant 'day
from the tall windows, to see the sunset tints

streaking the tender sky, the evening vesper
of light and perfume ascending, the wonderful
glory spreading over the heavens and resting
like a benediction on the churches and palaces,
the flashing river and stately columns, the an-
cient quarters and new boulevards of "the
town of Clovis, of Clotilde, of Genevieve, the
town of Charlemagne, of Saint-Louis, of Philip
Augustus, and of Henry IV., the capital of the
sciences, the arts, and of civilization.""
So absorbed in the beauty without as to be
forgetful even of the beauty within, Alan scarce-
ly noticed how the galleries were thinning, how
the well-dressed loungers and the busy artists
were alike departing, but strn stood with folded
arms gazing on the matchless scene outspread
before him, when a hand was suddenly laid on
his shoulder, and, turning, he faced that which
he least expected, and perhaps desired-an ac-
quairitance.
"Thi~ is Alan ErIe, I am sure," said a
slender, dark-eyed young man. "I have been
watching you for 4 least ten minutes, but you
would not turn roundand sol was obliged to
claim your notice in this way. Have you for-
gotten me-Stuart Lamar, of Georgia? I
went to school with you, if you remember."
"I remember perfectly," said Alan, frank-
ly shaking the extended hand. "In fact, we
have met since then, I think. Didn't I dine
at your father's house in Savannah, two years
ago?"
"Certainly you did!" responded the other,
smiling; "a didn't you return the compli-
ment when I went over to Charleston, by in-
troducing me to three of the prettiest girls I
ever saw ?-Have you been long in Paris?"
"Long enough to be tired of it. And
"Well, I am fresh at sight-seeing - I
haven't been here more than a fortnight, so I
have not begun to be tired yet. The greatest
drawback to my enjoyment has been an inca-
pacity to understand or be understood. I
thought I was a pretty fair French scholar,
but the confounded people will talk s~ fast.
Don't you find that ratherpuzzling?"
"I am a sailor, you know, and used to
speaking many tongues of many lands. I un-
derstand, and manage to make myself under-
stood-after a fashion, at least."
"It is very refreshing to meet you," said
* Letter of the Count de Chiunbordon theboinbard-
ment of Paris.

I

"MON CAJ

Lamar, with evident sincerity. "After a man
has been roaming about in a foreign land, he
appreciates a familiar face."
"And a familiar tongue,~~ said Alan; "that's
better yet, isn't it? see! unless we mean
to spend the night among the pictures and
statues, we'd better be moving. This place will
soon be shut up. Are you with a party?"
The other made a comical gesture with his
shoulders and eyebrows.
"No such good luck! Several of us start-
ed from home together, but, somehow, no two
had the same idea about the tour, and we had
scarcely landed before we separated. As for
me, I came to Paris, and devilish heavy work
i've found it all alone! My principal amuse-
ment has been to walk about the streets, listen
to the bapds-does it strike you that a band
always is playing somewhere ?-look in at the
ixtfis, end say with Hood:
"'When yo~ go to France,
- Be sure y~,u know the lingo,
For, If you don't, like me,
You will repent, by jingo!'
Let me return your question, by-the-by, and
ask if ~1'ou are with a party?"
"No such bad luck!" answered Alan,
shrugging his shoulders, as they went down-
stairs, "Where are you staying?" he went
on. "I sin leaving Paris to-night, but still-"'
He stopped in his speech, amused by the
dismay which came over Lamar's face.
"'Leaving to-night!" he repeated. "Good
heavens! what4o you mean by that? Why,
Paris is glorious just now-and I have been
thiniring what a splendid time I should have,
with you to do the talking for' me. We would
~go to Versailles, and Fontainebleau, and St..
Cloud, and-and the opera every night. I
like that better than the theatre, because I
can understand the music. My dear fellow,
pray think better of it! Consider-"
"The lilies of the field?" asked Alan,
laughing. "It is rather early for them,' my
dear boy-at least just here. Perhaps I shall
find them in their glory when I reach Italy
next week."
"Italy!" repeated the other, still petulant.
"What the devil are you going to Italy for?
Do you expect to meet anybody there?"
"One never knows who may turn up in
the way of friends and acquaintances-vide
our pleasant encounter-but I have no such
definite cxpectatioh."
"Then why on earth do you go? Excuse

tIARADE!"                            iQi
itie! I'm afraid I'm awfully rude, but it is really
enough to try a man's patience! Stay, Erle-do
stay! I'll wager any thing you won't regret it.
You can't have seen every thing in Paris, you
know-or, if you have, it will all bear being -
seen over again."
"My dear fellow-"
"Oh, deuce take it !-thnt tone tells the
tale. 'My dear fellow, I am sorry to be dis-
obliging, but must really, etc.,' etc.' 'Pon my
honor, it is too bad! It is like the dear ga-
zelle, when one finds a friend, only to lose him.
Look here, Erle !-will you be honest and say
'No,' if what I am about to propose does not
suit you?"
"Without the least hesitation," answered
Alan, truthfully enough.
"Then tell me frankly if you are anxious
to go to Italy alone, or if you would like a
companion?"
"Yourself?"
"Myself; of course. Now, don't say 'Yes,'
unless you mean it."
"Let me think a minute," said Alan
So, as they walked along in the dusk, he
considered the proposal. He knew very little
of Lamar; but that little assured him'that the
young Georgian was a thoroughly good fellow,
a genial, frank gentleman, and the person of
all others to cast the sunshine of bright spirits
over a journey by land or sea. If Alan wanted
a companion at all, certainly he might go far-
ther and fare worse than with the one who was
ready to his hand just here. But die! he want
a companion? That was the rub, and, if he
had answered the question according to his
first impulse, he would certainly have uttered
a negative. But Lamar's fresh, cager face
and the accents of the home-voice had uncon-
sciously attracted him. After all, he was set-
ting forth to shake off morbid thoughts, not to
nurse them, and, if he travelled alone, was there
much hope of his doing the former, or his ezot
doing the latter? Would notsucha companion
as this be really worth more than any amount
of Qther remedies? As he hesitated-and ah!
would he have hesitated at all, if he had only
known how much hinged on this decision!
-one fair, pure star quivered into sight above
the, house - tops, and his decision was sud-
lenly taken.
"Lamer," said he, "don't misunderstand
ny silence. I shall be sincerely glad if you
z411 go with me to Italy. I meant to go to
switzerland, but it is too cold for that just yet.

p


But I must start to-night. That is imperative.
Would you care to make such a sudden
move?"
"I sha'n't break many hearts by my depart-
ure," answered Lamar, with one of his boyish
grimaces, "and my traps are few. I don't see
why I can't start to-night, therefore. If you'll
tabe me, I think I'll got I feel like a man
who, having bees~ shipwrecked, suddenly meets
-Hallo! What the deuce-.--why, man alive,
I have just remembered that the last I heard
of you, you were drowned! How, in the name
Neptune, did you come to life again?"
"Under a galvanic battery," responded
Alan, grimly. "Nature's patent, not likely to
be stolen by art-only, as a friend, I wouldn't
advise you to try its effect. A sand-bank in
the tropics isn't the best possible place foray
constitution short of a salamander's. It is in
consequence of this that I am going to recruit
mine in Italy."
"I thought you looked badly," said Lamar,
simply, "but, like a fool, I did not think of
the cause. Really, I am ashamed of myself!"
"Don't be, my good fellow! There isn't
the least need of such a sentiment."
"But I ought to have remembered! I
recollect well how shocked I was when I read
the announcement of your death. But, some-
how, the whole thing went out of my head
when I saw yourfamiliar shoulders this even-
ing. I said to myself, 'There isn't such
another pair in the world,' so up I marched,
without thinking for a moment that the shoul-
ders in question might be ghostly' nothings.
But I forgot-.wheredid you say-you were stay-
ing? I'm at the H6tel du Lotivre, near by."
"And I at the H&amp;tel du Ithin. Will you
come with me? I left my dog there, and, un-
less I go to him, he will enliven the establish-
ment by such a series of howls that the police
will very likely have to be called in. That is
a Parisian's remedy for every ill, you know.
Come, and you shell order the menu yourself.
We don't leave till 11.50, so that will you
time enough to leek after your tr .'
"All right," said Lamar, receiving any and
every proposal with the utmost amiability, pro-
vided he was not called upon to relinquish
sight of his new-found comrade.
having refreshed the inner man, the two
friends found that their "traps" required
very little arrangement, and that, after this
duty had been dispatched, a wheW evening

yet hung heavily on their hands. Lamar
yawned so piteously, that, compassionating his
ennui, Alan carried him off to the Com~die
Fran~aise, where they saw a sparkling comedy
charmingly acted, then they strolled back to
their hotel through the illuminated streets,
and, as Madelon was taking the golden rose
from out her hair and the brilliant ornaments
from off her arms, they dashed away into the
night, with the head of their fiery horse turned
straight toward the fair South.
CHAI'TER IX.
"ONE FACE!"
UNDER the blue, rarely blue sky of Italy, the
Lago di Como lies like a sheet of lapis-lazuhi
in the noontide sun. There is scarcely breeze
enough to ripple the glassy surface of the
water, or steal through the closed jealousies of
the palaces and villas which gem its winding
shores, while in the shade of their deep arched
entrances, or beside the marble steps, against
which the azure waters softly plash,,hie the
brightly-cushioned pleasure-boats, motionlesss
and unoccupied. The rustle of a leaf is scarce-
ly heard on the steep mountain-sides, which,
girt by the olive and fig, the laurel and cactus,
tower above the placid lake, flanked by the
grand, snow-clad peaks of the higher Alps.
In the fairy hanging-gardens, and on the ter-
races studded with baskets of orange, olean-
der, and myrtle, every sound is mute. The
embowered convents and the picturesque vil-
lags with their tapering spires lie wrapped in
such absolute repose that it is almost possible to
imagine that an enchanter's wand has hovered
over the fair scene and bound it with a spell.
Even the swarthy, sunburnt fishermen have
fallen asleep in their boats, secure in the grale-
ful shadow of some olive-shaded, land-locked
bay. In truth, a potent enchanter has been
at work-that high-noon of the South, whose
imperative ardor proclaims an armistice of
labor. Spring has melted into summer, and
even on the Lago di Como the scorching heat
of the latter season holds triumphant sway.
Scorching it is; for not one breath of the
welcome north breeze has come down from the
Alpine hills, to stir the drooping leaves of the
foliage, or ruffle the mirror-like surface of the
lake. On the terrace of a villa near the beau-
tiful promontory of Bellagio, two ladies are

102

EBB-TIDE.

102  BBTDE." ONE FACE !"                                                                                         10

seated under an awning, both of them waiting
eagerly for the first breath of this breeze, and
one of them now and then leaning over to fan
the other. A shry strong, pleasant face the
latter has, a face surrounded by bands of iron-
gray hair, and brightened by keen, intelligent
brown eyes. These eyes are a little sad and
very tender as they rest on her companion, a
pale, slend ,dark-eyed girl, who seems wasted
away to a ~h adow; whose fragile hands as they
lie in her lap look almost transparent; and
whose feet are plainly standing on the verge
of that unknown sea which mortals call im-
mortality. After a while, she looks up at her
companion with a sweet smile, speaking Eng-
lish with a soft, Southern accent.
"Thanks, dear Miss North, you are so
kind. ~3ut please don't tire yourself; it is al-
ways tiresome to fan anybody."
"Not to me," answered the elder lady.
"But, if it worries you, I can call Lucia. She
does it well, and never tires."
"No, no, let poor Lucia sleep. You know
she was awake all night. My cough is so
annoying at night, and then the fever makes
me restless. I am afraid" (with a short sigh)
"that I am very impatient, and give a great
deal of unnecessary trouble"
"You impatient! My darling, how can
you say such a thing? Only the other morn-
ing I found Lucia crying, and I asked her
what was the matter. 'The signorina is too
good,' she said, shaking her head and sobbing
She is ready for paradise.' So you see"
(with a faint smile) "she does not find you
very troublesome."
"That is because she is so faithful and de-
voted. Ah, how fortunate I have been to find
such a friend as you, and such a servant as
Lucia, in my hour of need! Dear Miss North,
I wonder if you will thoroughly realize, when
you go back to your own life and your own
friends, what gratitude and love the girl for
whom you have sacrificed so much felt for
you?"
"I have sacrificed nothing," said Miss
North, hastily. "Ermine, my child, don't you
know that you have grown nearer to my heart
than anybody else in the woi'ld, nearer by far
than my own kindred? Is it a sacrifice to
live in these beautiful lands with you, and try
to take care of you? My bonnie darling, stay
with me! ~!hat isalliaak."
"But that Is not forane to ~raat," said Br-
mine, putting out her frail, buming hand-

burning with the fever which had sapped the
foundation of life. "Dear friend, kind friend
-the kindest, save one, that I have ever
known-I am not sure that I would grant it
jf, I could! Life is very sweet to those who
are rich in its gifts and goods-but what have
I ?"
"You have youth, beauty, great talent, and
many possibilities of happiness.~~
"When health is gone, youth is gone,~~
said Ermine, sadly, "and beauty too. With
my talent-such as it is-I have done what I
could, and, if God spared my life, I should hope
to do more. But He knows best. As for the
possibilities of happiness-well, Art is fair,
and Nature is fairer. But are not these only
types of that Beauty on which the eyes of the
spirit shall open? We think that nothing
could be more exquisite than this lovely lake;
but surely the hand which gave this to the
material senses can give something better yet
to those which are immortal?"
"My child, who doubts it?"
"Ab, then" (with passionately- clasped
hands), "why wish to stay? If love is sweet,
think what it must be to love Love itself! *
If beauty is fair, think what it must be to see
Beauty such as 'it hath ~eot entered into the
heart of man to conceive!' Now, those have
been my two passions-..-love of love, and love
of beauty. t~od made them both. It can-
not be wrong, then, to climb by them to
"Wrong!~' Miss North could say no more,
for tears rose up and choked her.
"Am I paining you?" asked Ermine, gem.
tly. "Ak, dear Miss North, don't shut your
eyes to the truth. I talk of these things be-
cause I am very near them-so near that fear
seems to have left me, and I feel the trust of a
little child who is led by its mother's hand into
the dark."
"Ermine," said Miss North, suddenlydrop-
ping her fan, and seizing the girl's delicate
hands, "tell me-in the midst of your grief, did
you ever pray for death?"
"Never," answered Ermine, simply. "How
could you think such a thing? I have never
been so wicked as that. But, somehow, the
l*rden of life seemed too heavy for me when
my boy went out of it. Y~u know it was not
as if he had been any ordinary friend or ordi-
* These words are borrowed frees an expressloa Is
"La ~Aclt4'nne Benr."

103


104

EBB-TIDE-.

nary lover-but he had been the stay and idol
of my life. I hope I was not sinful in my
grief-I tried not to be. But existence looked
so blank-so dreary. I thought to myself,
'How shall I bear this desolation through the
long years of a lifetime?' Of course, people
told me I would forget it; but I knew better
-I knew that I never forgot anything. I was
a little child when my father died, but I shed
tears for him now as bitter as those which I
shed then. Iknew that, if I lived to be seven-
ty, I should still mourn for Alan. And God
knew it. So He called me from the burden
and heat of the day, and I-how can I be sor-
ry 1' If I lived longer, I might commit some
sin which would shut me out from heaven for-
ever. Now I have not much to reproach my-
self with-except being too little resigned when
love and happiness went from me-last Oc-
tober."
"Child," said the elder woman, sorrowfully,
"I never knew before what a good thing in-
constancy is."
"Is it?," said Ermine, smiling-a shadowy
but ineffably sweet smile. "Ah, no! Blessed
be God for memory! If every bright gift of
earth were offered to me in exchange for the
recollection of my darling, do you thing I
would take them I' Do you think I would buy
health, and beauty, and happiness, at such a
price? Do you think I could even resign my-
self to death if I did not know that the recol-
leetion wrn go with me into life? Perhaps I
think of it too much" (with a wistful, pathetic
look), "but I cannot help it. The saints loved
God purely in and for Himself, but u's must go
to Him through our' earthly passions. I am
sure our dear Lord will not be hard upon me
for being too faithful to my poor human love.
But see !-here comes the breeze!"
She turned her pale face toward it as she
spoke-klrinking in its cool refreshment eager-
ly. As her gaze wandered toward the distant
snow-clad heights from which it came, Miss
North'p eyes dwelt on her. Ab, what ravages
the last few months-nay, even the last few
weeks, had made! Over the pale face and the
fragile form, the very shadow of Azrai~l seemed
to hover. Life, deprived of its onlylight, had
indeed proved too much for the great, passi4wi-
ate heart, the gentle, faithful nature. Some
people have one gift, sonic another; few are
so poor as to be without any. Ermine's was
the gift of constancy. Alan ErIe might have
been dead to all the rest of the world, but to

the tender heart which, winni~ig once he had
won forever, he still lived, and still-
"One Sice, remembering his, forgot i'o smile."
The wasted lines of that face spoke so elo-
quently to Miss North's heart, that many salt
tears dropped in her lap before she could find
voice to speak. Then she said, gently:
"Ermine, darling, don't you think you
might be better if you tried to cross the Alps?
It seems to me that this climate may account
for your extreme debility."
"I cross the Alps!" said Ermine. "I
could not even cross that promontory yonder!
Dear, kind friend, why won't you see the
truth? I would rather you did, because there
is no telling how soon the realization may be
brought home to you. If I needed any con-
firmation of my own knowledge, I should have
found it in the doctor's face when he saw me
this morning-and in P~re Aubr~'s" (this was
a French priest who chanced to be staying at
Varenna), "when he left me a little while ago.
No, the end is very near, and I think I may
say I am ready for it. If it came to-night-as
it may do-I can go, having left no duty
knowingly unfulfilled. I have written to mam-
ma and to Madelon. You will find the letters
in my desk. Then I left some instructions-a
will, I suppose it might be called-concerning
the little property which I retained. Some of
it goes as a marriage-portion to Lucia; the
rest I have left to charity. For you, my kind
and only friend, I have but my love, my grati-
tude, my prayers, and every thing personal to
myself which you may desire to keep. What
you. do not keep, give to Lucili. No one else
will care for them. I did not leave you any
money" (smiling a little), "because I know
that, with the property left by your brother,
you are able to provide for all your wants, and
it would have seemed like-like paying you
for all you have done!"
"I am glad you did not," said Miss North,
between her tears. "Love's service can only
be paid with love."
"I know it," said Ermine, softly.
After this there was silence again. Lightly
the breeze came over the water, rippling it
into a myriad tiny waves which broke with
soft, musical plash against the flight of steps
reaching from the terrace, not to the water's
edge, but to the very water itself. The eyes
of the dying girl gazed wistfully on the fairy
beauty and brilliance of the scene-the azure

5

105

lake, the lofty mountains, covered with almost
tropical verdure, the gleaming palaces, temples,
and villas, the nimbus of golden sunlight over
the distant Alpine peaks, the fish darting to
and fro in the pellucid water. Happy fish, to
live in the waters of Como, we are almost
tempted to think. But no doubt even fish
have their troubles-especially when they are
caught. As Ermine gazed in silence on this
wealth of magical beauty, a small boat, which
had been lying in a shadowy cove near the
proniontory, pushed out from the shore, and,
propelled by lazy but evidently practiced
strokes, began to move over the water, leaving
a track of glorified sunlight behind. It had an
awning, and, as well as could be seen, con-
tained only one occupant, though, as a matter
of fact,1another recumbent figure lay in the
bottom, while a large dog crouched motionless
at the stern. Though the little craft was far
from being one of the gay barciolinas which
tourists and sight-seers patronize, it made a
pretty adjunct to the scene, and Ermine
watched its course with that interest which
trifles sometimes waken in the sick.
Near and mo,~cai~ itcame, until at last
it glided in front -the villa only a few feet
distant from the terrace on which the ladies sat.
The oarsman-a young, handsome man, wear-
ing a broad-brimmed straw hat-suffered it to
float slowly by, as he caught sight of the two
figures under the orange-trees. Sickness had
not robbed Ermine of all her beauty. 11cr
eyes still remained-larger, darker, softer than
ever-and the outlines of her face were all
fair and pure. Just now she looked like a
/ "marble saint niched in cathedral-wall," with
her white robe falling to her feet, her hair
pushed back behind, her dainty ears, and in
her slender fingers the glittering beads of a
gold-and-amethyst rosary. Something like a
luminous calm seem breathed over her. The
struggle had been bitter and fierce-had
drained, indeed, the very life-blood of the
suffering heart-but victory had brought a
peace like unto no peace of earth, a peace
which comes only as the avant coun-jer of that
dread angel whom the children of men account
a destroyer, but the children of God a deliv-
erer.
"Look, Alan!" said Lamar, in a low tone
-"look what an exquisite face that girl has!
There's something half divine about it, only it
seems to me I have seen it somewhere before."
"It isn't the extreme of good-breeding to

" ONE FACE !"

stare at people as you chance to row by their
terraces," said Alan, lazy and sleepy, and
thoroughly indifferent to all the exquisite faces
in the world. "Beauty is the birthright of
these Italian women; and as for seeing this
face before, you may have seen it on the Corso
the other day: a great many Milanese have
villas on the lake here."
"But look!" persisted Lamar. "We
shall be beyond sight in another minute, and
I don't think that' a sweeter face was ever
seen. The com~?lexion is like a magnolia.
petal, and the eyes are full moons, as the
Turks say."
"Full moons they. may remain for me,"
-said Alan. "I would not lift my head just
now to see Sabrina herself rise from the lake.
I begin to appreciate what dolce for niente
means, and-Nix, keep still, sir! What the
dcvii is the matter with you ?-Hallo I Look
out there, Lamar, or the fool will upset this
cockle.shell !"
The warning came too late. Nix, who had
been whining and moving restlessly ever since
they came in front of the terrace, now made a
sudden dart overboard, which capsized the
craft, and, in a second, the two young men.
found themselves in the lake.
Now, a plunge-bath is never pleasant, not
even when you have had time to think about
it. But, when it has the additional drawback
of being totally unexpected, it is difficult to
imagine any thing more absolutely disagree-
able. Leaving the two struggling swimmers
to their fate, let us go back a moment and ex-
plain the cause of the disaster.
It is probable that, by some sympathy
known only to canine intelligence, the dog had
been aware of the neighborhood of his quon-
dam playfellow and patroness, as soon as he
came near the villa, but he only manifested
this consciousness by restless movement and
whining, until they were abreast of the spot
where Ermine sat. It was then that she sud-
denly exclaimed:
"Ah, what a magnificent dog! Look,
Miss North-in the stern of the boat! Does
he not remind you of-..-of Nix 1"'
Low as it was, her voice was singularly
clear, and Nix's ears were attentiirely pricked.
Lamar saw her lean forward with sudden in-
terest and speak to her companion, but he did
not catch the words-in consequence of not
being gifted with the auditory powers of a
dog. The word "Nix" had scarcely passed


106                        EBB-TIDE.                                                              THE TIDE GOES OUT.

her bps, however, when the owner of that name
sprang overboard; and, disregarding the Ca-
tastrophe which he left behind, swam straight
toward the terrace.
"I never saw-" Miss North was begin-
ning, when this event occurred.-" Good Heav-
ens!" she cried, springing to her feet. "The
dog has capsized the boat I-the men will be
drowned! What on earth are we to do?"
Though she was unable to do any thing,
she ma down to the steps excitedly, while Er-
mine sat still, with sympathizing eyes of inter-
est on the scene. She soon saw that there
was no question of drowning, for both men
were expert swimmers. Instead of making
any eJlhrt to save their lives, they were simply
endeave~iing to save the boat-to catch it, and,
if possible, to right it. This, however, was
difficult.
"Bring it here! -bring it here!" cried
Miss North, standing on the steps, and gesticu-
lating wildly. The familiar words (used quite
unconsciously) rang clearly over the water,
making Lamar say to Alan in somewhat splut-
tering fashion:
"By Jove! those people yonder are Eng-
lish-and the old lady is a trump! Look at
her, standing on the steps waving her hand-
kerchief!" Then he shouted in return:
"Thanks 1-we are coming I"
"How ridiculous they look!" said Miss
North, beginning to laugh as soon as she saw
that there was to be no tragedy. "And they
are En-~-Oh, you horrid creature! I don't
know how you dare to show your face! You
are the cause of it all!"
These last remarks were addressed to Nix,
who just then emerged from the water, and,
without stopping fer even a single shake, I
rushed past the dismayed lady, full at Ermine.
"Nint-it is Nix!" cried the girl, in a
voice of mingled amazement, terror and de- t
light. "0 my God, what does this mean?-
Nix!" a
"flow, wow, wow!" said Nix, lifting up l~
his great throat, and opening his great mouth
to attest his joy. Thea-with a perfect river i~
of water pouring from him-he sprang, in his t~
old fashion, straight on the trembling gui. a
* kiss North gave a shriek, sad flew to the I
reseae--for she thought Ermine was verily be- ii
lug eateu. .&amp;hin heard the shriek, and, having b
seen Nix b~Aind up the steps, suspected what g
was the matter (suspected, that is, that the tI
dog was making himself obnoxious); so, leav- b

ing the boat tto the care of Lamar, he struck
out with a will for the villa. In a minute he
reached it, and, as he sprang on the stej~e,
Miss North turned round.
"Oh, sir!" cried she, "for Heaven's sake
come quickly! I can't get this dreadful dog
away, and I am afraid the young lady has
fainted."
"Nix, you scoundrel, get down this mm-
cried Alan, in wrath, as, giving himself
vigorous shake to relieve his clothing of
its superfluous weight of water he strode has-
tily forward.
But the first tone of his voice had fallen
like a thunder-clap on the little group. Nix
dropped to the ground as if he had been shot
-Miss North dropped into a chair, as if she
had been shot-while Ermine rose to her feet
with a look of such transfigured joy on her
face, that "ecstasy" is the only word which
will apply to it. There was no amazement,
there was no doubt, there was no questioning.
Joy was so great and so overwhelming that it
swallowed every other feeling, as the ocean
swallows the rivers which flow into it.
"Alan!" she said, in a tone which neither
of the two who heard it ever forgot.
Then she made a step forward, and fell
lifeless into his arms.
-.4--
CHAPTER X.
THE TIDE GOES OUT.
"H&amp;s she fainted?" Alan asked, looking
~t Miss North, as his eager words remained
unanswered, and he felt the fragile form grow
seavy on his arms.
"God only knows," was her reply, as she
ame forward and touched the marble brow,
he nerveless hands, the thread-like pulse.
She has only fainted-as yet," she said, after
moment. "Bring her into the saloon, and
~t me try to recover her."
She led the way, and he followed without a
Tord, bearing the light burden which he had
[sought never to bear again. With him,
amazement subordinated every other feeling.
row did Ermine, whom he imagined in Paris
~ith Madelon and Madame Villarot, come to
e here on the Lago di Como with her old
overness? His whole frame thrilled with
ic passionate delight of feeling her close to
un once more; but, even in the first moment

of meetiug-that bitter-sweet moment when
she came to him straight as the needle to the
magnet-he had remembered that she was his
brother's wife. Not his-not his-never again
his-was the thought which ran through his
heart and mind, even while he pressed kiss af-
ter kiss on the dark, silken tendrils of ~sair,
the pale, unconscious, sculptured face.
"Put her down here," said Miss North, in-.
dicating a broad couch,~ on the cushions of
which a faint impression bore evidence to its
having been lately occupied by the same slight
figure. "Take that pillow from under her
head-now open the blinds, and fan her gen-
tly."
She crossed the floor and rang a bell-then
came back, and, kneeling down by the couch,
began to chafe the girl's hands. Her heart
sank within her-the swoon was so deep that
she almost feared breath would never come
again to those halt~unclosed, motionless lips.
"On that table yonder you will find a
flagon of ammonia," said she, to the drenched
Triton beside her. "Bring it here."
He moved away-leaving a pool of water
on the marble floor to mark where he had
stood-and in a second returned with the
fia9on. Thcn he, too, knelt down, and laid
his hand over the almost silent heart.
I can scarcely feel it," he said. "Are-.---
are you sure she is not dead?"
"Not yet," said Miss North, a little bitter-
ly, "but this may kill her. The shock was
enough-and then look at these drenched
clothes! They must be changed at once.
Will you ring the bell again?"
He was rising to do so, when a dark-browed
Italian maid came hastily into the room.
"Ah! Ia signorina, la signorina!" cried she,
breaking into lamentations as soon as she
caught sight of the motionless, death-like form
on the couch. She, too, came and flung her-
self on her knees beside it.
"Silence, Lucia," said Miss North, in Ital-
ian. "She is not dead-she has only fainted.
Help me to bring her back to life."
"But she has been in the lake, signoral"
touchingg the damp, clinging draperies won-
deringly).
"Not quite---.only something very near it.
Go quickly for dry clothes-and bring the
brandy with you. As for you" (looking up at
Alan, and speaking in English), "you must go,
too. Her eyes must not open on your face-
that is, if they open at all again. If you will

wait yonder "-she pointed to the terrace-" I
will come to you in a few minutes."
"But you will let me return as soon as
she is conscious!" said he, almost imploring-
ly.
"That will be for her to say," answered
Miss North, almost sternly. "Ah, see I-life
is coming back. Go!"
Life was indeed coming back. Faintly,
slowly, with a long, tremulous sigh, the breast
began to heave, the lips parted a little wider,.
and gave a glimpse of the teeth, like pure,
white cocoa-nut within, the dark lashes quiv-
ered, and it was evident that in another mo-
ment the white lids would lift.
"Go!" repeated the ex-govemness, impera-
tively. "It will never do for her to see you
here. Go l"
"I am going," he answered, in a low voice..
And, with one lingering glance, he went.
On the terrace outside Nix was lying, look-
ing very crestfallen; on the steps Lamar was
standing, a dripping Triton number two, watch-
ing the boat with a rueful face as it lazily
floated farther and farther away.
"I say, Erie," he cried, as soon as Alan
appeared, "don't you think these good Sainar--
itaus must have a boat? Everybody has, you
know. If they would be good enough to lend
it to us, we could catch that confounded craft
quick enough. As it is, what the devil will.
old Beppo say?"
"Let himsay what he pleases," said Alan,.
flinging himself into the first one of the vacant
chairs. "The thing will be picked up some--
where-and we can pay him foi~ damages."
"He'll swear it hadn't a sound plank left
in it!" grumbled Lamar, watching the truant~
craft. "And yonder goes my hat following
leisurely in the wake! Well" (sitting down
on the topmost step), "I suppose it is the
will of God! That is what these ?ious people-
say whenever any thing happens-Nix, you
raseal, come near me, will you, and I'll take~
pleasure in breaking every bone in your*
body!"
"Here's a chair, Lamar," said Alan.
"I look like sitting in a chair, don't I? "
said Lamar, surveying himself grimly. "By..
the-way, Alan, was the young lady hurt or only-
frightened? I think that dog of yours must
have gone out of his wits."
"Nix recognized her," said Alan, putting
out his hand to pat the dos's great, curlr
head. "But for him, I should lnwe passed b~


108                       EBB-TIDE.

without even faintly guessing who was so near
me."
"What! you know her?"
"Know her! It was Ermine St. .Amand!"
Lamar sprang to his feet-sat down again
-gave a long whistle-and finally said:
"By Jove!"
After a while, ho recovered sufficiently to
add something else. "I thought I knew her!
I thought I could not be mistaken in imagine.
ing that I had seen that face! What did she
do when she saw you, old fellow?"
"Fainted," said Alan, laconically.
"And has she come to, yet?"
"Not yet."
"By Jove!" said Lamar, again.
Then he suddenly dashed his hands into
his hair and tossed it about in such an extraor.
diary fashion, that he speedily assumed the
appearance of a well.drenehed maniac.
"This is horribly awkward," said he-" for
you, at least. I say, Alan, can't we get away?
There must be some way of leaving here by
land! For Heaven's sake, let us try it!"
"Isball not stir a foot," said Alan. "Fate,
chance, the mercy ot God, what you please,
brought me here. Being here, I shall stay."
"But, my dear fellow, you know you can't
-you know it is impossible! What good will
it do? Come, be reasonable! You will do
the poor girl herself an inestimable benefit, if
you will only go before she comes out of her
swoon."
"Stand back, Lamar!" said Alan, shaking
off the hand which the other, coming forward,
had lain on his shoulder. "Don't try to
preach to me! By God, I will not endure it!
I see in her face that she is dying !-do you
hear me ?-dyinq I-and no power of earth
shall tear me away from her now."
"But w~at is the good of it?" persisted
Lamar. "Youknow as well as I do that she
is married."
"That she is what? " asked a sudden, deep
voice behind the young men.
They both turned quickly, and faced Miss
North. Unperceived, she had come through
the open window of the saloon, and, advan-
cing on them from the rear, had caught Lamar's
last words.
"Of whom are you speaking?" demanded
she, looking from one to the other. "Who is
married?"
"We were speaking of Miss St. Amand,"
said Alan, as Lamar's self-possession entirely

failed. "My friend was reminding me that
she is married. It is a fact which I had not
forgotten-which I am not likely to forget."
"It is a lie, rather, of which you have
come in time to hear the contradiction," said
she, almost fiercely. *" Come away-farther
away! Ermine must not overhear this."
She walked quickly to the farther end of
the terrace, and Alan followed. Lamar, with
instinctive delicacy, remained where he was.
"The devil is to pay!" he thought. "They
won't want me!"
They did not want him in the sense of
needing him, but neither of them would have
heajtated to speak freely before him-Miss
North, because she would willingly have told
her indignant story to the whole world; Alan,
because a sincere and abiding friendship had
long since sprung up between himself and the
young Georgian. If Lamar had followed them,
he would have seen how quickly two honest,
straightforward natures can tear away the
veil which falsehood or intrigue may have
woven before the truth.
Alan's side of the story we know.
Miss North's was this: The year before
she had been teaching in Montreal, when she
met the Eric party, who, en masse, had accom-
panied the Saxtons on their bridal tour. Er.
mine was delighted to see her ci-devant govern.
ess, and they were together a great deal. The
girl was very sad concerning Alan, from whom
she had not heard for a long time, and it was
evident to the keen eyes of the shrewd English-
woman that the family determination to marry
her to Raymond was, if possible, on the in-
crease. "But she was like a ~ock," said this
faithful friend; "I have never seen constancy
and resolution that equalled hers, with all her
childlike gentleness. After a while, they re-
signed their persecutions for a time; and I
think they had almost resigned all hope of
compassing their end, when the news of your
death came.
"I cannot tell you what that news was to
Ermine. You must look at her face to read it
there. My poor words would very faintly de-
scribe such a death-blow to hope, and love, and
life. It has simply killed her. Well, they
scarcely gave the desolate child time to realize
her grief, before the plots, and plans, and per-
secutions, began afresh. Mr. Erie came on in
person, and I have always suspected that he
originated and was chief in executing the
scheme which was finally carried out when

I,

THE TIDE GOES OUT.

they found that the will which opposed them
was like granite. He paid me the compliment
of suspecting that I inspired Ermine's ob-
stinacy, so his first move was to carry the
whole party oft' to New York, under pretence
of seeing the sailors who had arrived at that
port and hearing the whole truth of your ship-
wreck. I confess I was very uneasy after they
left. Ermine was in that horrible numb state
which follows a great shock, and I feared that,
in her lethargic indifference to every thing
concerning herself, she might be persuaded or
forced to ruin her life forever, as such a mar-
riage would ruin it. Judge, then, of my relief,
when, after an ominous silence of several
weeks, I received a very gracious letter from
Mrs. Erie, begging me to come to New York
and thknce accompany Ermine to Germany,
where she desired to go and study art. I
threw up my situation and went at once.
When I reached New York, I found your
brother engaged to Madelon Lautrec."
"To Madelon Lautrec!"
"Yes, to Madden Laiitrec. Worked upon
.by every possible appeal to her generosity, in-
different to every thing save her determination
to remain faithful to your memory, and anxious
only to be left in peace, Ermine had made
over her fortune to her cousin, between whom
and your brother a mercenary bargain was
speedily struck. I found that, of all her
wealth, she had retained only a portion suffi-
cient to insure a support apart from exertio~as
which might have proved unsuccessful, and at
least could not soon have been remunerative.
The whole thing seemed simple enough to her.
To be relieved from the anxiety of wealth, for
which she had no love, to be able to go to
Europe, and to endeavor to forget her desola-
tion in the' arf to which she was born, this
was all for which she cared. This was all she
did. Of the fraud which came after, her
hands were skinless."
"How, then, did it come? How could she
be robbed, not only of her fortune, but of her
vcry identity, without at least permitting it?"
"Listen: you shall hear. 'If you are
going to Europe to study art as a profession,
and if you mean to make your bread by it,'
said Mrs. Erie, 'you must take some other
name than your own. I cannot suffer my
daughter to do such a thing as my daughter.'
(You remember Ermine had surrendered her
fortune to save her step-father from bankrupt-
cy.) 'Well, mamma,' said Ermine, listlessly, 'I

promise that you shall not be disgraced by my
labors. Tell me what name to take, and no
one who knew me as Mademoiselle St. Amand
shall know me as an art-student. What shall
I call myself?' I remember how Mrs. Erie
seemed to think for a moment before she
said: 'Suppose that, as Madelon is about to re-
sign her name, you were to take that? It is a
family name; there was a autrec St. Amand
several generations ago, a d therefore not like
one which would be only assumed.' Ermine
assented to this as indifferently as she assented
to every thing else, and also bound herself not
to seek out her relations in France. You will
consider me very stupid, perhaps, that I did
not see the drift of all this, that I did not sus-
pect the contemplated change of identity, but
in truth people are slow to see such things
when they occur under their own eyes. In
books we are always expecting wiles, and in-
trigues,~and villanies, but, in real life, nothing
is farther from our thoughts. We can scarce-
ly realize it, in fact, when it is forced upon
our perception. Ermine and I sailed from
New York before the marriage, and it was not
until long afterward that I began to think
what had been done. I was not sure of it,
however, until I came out and heard your
friend say that Ermine was married. Then,
like a flash, I understood every thing.
"Well" (as he stood utterly silent, utterly
passive, stunned apparently by the blackness
of the abyss of treachery into which he had
fallen)," you wonder, perhaps, how we came
here. We went to Germany, as I have already
said, to Munich, to Dresden, to Dusseldorf.
But even art had lost all power over Ermine.
She looked with strange, absent eyes at the
most beautiful pictures; she would sit before
her easel with her brush in her hand all day,
and scarcely paint a stroke. At last she took
a cold, which very much alarmed me. She
never complained, but she wasted away like a
shadow, and at last I called in a physician.
He told me that the climate was too severe for
her, that I must bring her to Italy. 'She is a
child of the South,' he said, 'and the South
alone can cure her.' But he was wrong; the
South has not cured her. Slowly but surely
she has faded awaybefore my eyes.. We spent
the spring in Rome, and, as summer came on,
moved gradually northward. I was anxious
to go to Lake Leman,~but Ermin&amp; clung ~o
Italy. She could not bettr to cross the Alps;
and so we stayed here until her strength was


'I

'110

EBB-TIDE.

~too far spent to take any journey whatever.
An English friend of mine who occupied this
villa was suddenly summoned home, and we
moved into it. It would bave been a charm-
ing place to linger in, only-only
She stopped short and her fortitude gave
way, Leaning down on the carved balustrade
below which the magical waters, that a hun-
.lred poets have sung, were softly plashing,
she burst ~into a passion of tears.
"0 my God! my God! is not this too
bitter 1" she cried. "If you had come one
month earlier, there might have been hope-
who can say? Now, you have only come to
fill, with the longings of time, the ~pirit which
stands on the brink of eternity! Oh, it is too
cruel! Oh, it is too hard! Oh, why has it
been permitted!"
So she moaned to herself in the anguish of
her grief and love, while Alan-dry-eyed, and
as he felt, almost dry.hearte4.-qnietly watched
her. With him, even grief ~was swallowed up
in the passionate desire for revenge which
took possession of his soul like a burning tem-
pest. There were solace and comfort there at
least. He would fulfil his vow, he would re-
turn every pang which she had suffered, every
tear which she had shed, on the authors of
this treacherous wrong He would hurl them
down from their high places in the world's
esteem, and point them out as the cowardly
traitors which they were. He would hold
them to account for the life which they had
murdered. And then he, too, broke down,
not in sobs, but in one great groan, which
seemed as if it might have rent his chest asun-
der. The thought which proved too much
for him was, how near he had been to the
truth in Paris; how only a thin veil had sepa-
rated him them from the knowledge which was
now gained, too late. Alas! it is just such
veils as these-such fine, impalpable tissues of
falsehood, or deception, or r1iisunderstanding-
which make more than hale the bitter misery
of this bitter life.
"Don't regret that I have come," said he,
at last, almost harshly. "Don't grudge me
one hour of happiness to sweeten a lifetime of
desolation! Don't think that, if angels and
saints arc calling her, she will pine to stay
with me! God did not mean that she should
pass away holding a lie for truth, and so He
sent me. So long as He gives me life, I shall
thank him that He did so. After Him, I
thank Lamar, who would insist on coming

here, though I have long been feverishly
anxious to go back to the sea."
"And so you had given her up?"
"Could I do other? Ah, how could I
dream-each day I have hoped that, perhaps
with every hour, she was drawing nearer to
happiness?"
"And so she has been," said Miss North,
gently. "After all, does not God know best?
Nothing is chance. He would have sent you
before this, if he had meant you to come.
But" (with a sudden start), "you must go now
and dry your clothes, you and your friend.
I have neglected it so long, that I am afraid
you will both be ill. Yonder is Lucia; she will
show you a room. When you are ready, come
back here to the terrace, and I will let you see
Ermine."
/
Three hours later, the golden day is slowly
drawing to its close. Fair, on the immemorhl
mountains that mirror themselves in the azure
waters below, sleeps the incarnadine glory of
an Italian sunset. A thousand sweet sounds
and perfumes, sounds and perfumes fraught
with the aroma of enchanted Italy, steal in
through the open easement of the saloon to
the dying girl lying there so quietly at peace.
The loveliest ~cene of earth is spread before
her eyes, but it may be that already the gaze
of the spirit h~s caught the marvellous towers
and battlements of that fair "city of the
saints of God," beside which all earthly beauty
pales into insignificance. At least these things
* appeal but faintly to her now. The tide is
going out, going so gently, that those around
can scarcely realize how near at hand is the
last ebb. Alan, who has seen men die, can
scarcely force himself to believe that this is
death, that any child of earth can lie in the
embrace of the terrible messenger as if en-
circled by a mother's arms. At one side of
the couch he kneels: at the other, Miss North
is seated; Lucia is at the foot, sobbing over
an ivory crucifix; Lamar slowly paces the ter.
race outside. It is only within the last few
minutes that these have been called in. For
nearly three hours the two so cruelly kept
asunder, so strangely brought together, were
left alone. What passed in that last interview,
none knew, save, indeed, that Ermine's dying
prayer had made her love forego his revenge.
"Leave them to God, dear love-oh, leave
them to God!" she said. "It seems almost
too hard that we should have been kept apart

THE TIDE GOES OUT.

so long !-that we should meet now only to
say good-by !-that we should have suffered so
much and so bitterly !-but remember how
they will have to answer for every causeless
pang at God's tribunal, and ' do not darken
your soul by usurping His office. You see"
-putting her tender arms around the throat,
which something was almost choking-" I am
going first, but I shall watch and wait for you,
and 0 Alan, dear Alan, try to come! It
seems to mc that I shall miss your face even
in paradise!"
"My darling, I will try!" he answered,
brokenly. "Tell mc how."
Then in her sweet, low voice she told him
things which have no place in such a page as
this. Some themes are too holy to be handled~
save by ~ reverent pen for reverent eyes to
read. It is enough that on her death-bed this
frail, dying girl spoke some simple words which
God was good enough to touch, as it were,
with Ills divine power, and which, falling deep
into the heart of her listener, brought ~rtls
good fruit in the after-time.
But all this is over now. The long exer~
tion has taxed her strength so much that she
can only lie with her head pillowed on Alan's
arm, her eyes in their deep gladness fixed on
his face-aud, so resting, softly pass from time
into eternity. The good priest who was there
in the morning had given her the last rites of
the Church, and she had refused to allow him
to be summoned again.
"It is useless," she said. "It would only
trouble him-and he looked sick when he left
this morning. Give him my love and my rosa.
ry, dear Miss North, and tell him how grate.
ful I am for his great kindness to me."
No one was forgotten in these souvenirs-
even Lamar received a tiny gold charm from
her chdtelaine, "In memory of your shower-
bath," she said, with a smile, which the y6ung
man thought was the sweetest he had ever
seen.
And so, while they watch and u ait, the
sun begins to sink. The "vast-skirted clouds"
gather about the lofty peaks, and form har-
monies of color for which language has scarce-
ly a name. The waters of the lake catch the
glory and give it back increased a thousand-
fold. The golden and rose-colored tints fling
a tender radiance into the saloon, filling it
with a strange, luminous light, like the atmos~
phere with which some of the old painters sur-
round the figure of a saint.

111

"How lovely!" says Ermine, turning her
languid gaze to the shining waters outside.
"Alan, do you remember the evening before
you went away, when we stood on the Battery
and watched the sun go down over the bay of
Charleston? It was not half as fair as this
peerless Lago di Como, yet it seems to me
that I can see it all now-and your smile when
you said, 'Only four months to wait!"'
Alan cannot answer. The scene of which
she speaks comes back to him, too-the famil-
iar h -scene on which his eyes have gazed
a t usan times-on which, if they ever gaze
a am, it ust be alone! He remembers how
looming and lovely with the tints of youth
and health was the pale face beside him, then
-and, so remembering, a great ocean of bitter:
ness once more wells up in his heart.
"Oh, my darling! my darling!" he cries,
throwing his arms around her and straining
her passionately tb him. "Stay with me!-
stay with me! My God, what shall I do with
this useless life of mine when you have gone
from it forever?"
"Forever is not of time," answers she,
softly-even this passionate cry being unable
to stir the ineffable peace which Death brings
with him to the great in faith and the pure of
heart -"that belongs to eternity, Alan. 0
ddar love, may it indeed belong to eternity
for us!"
"But I cannot give you up to eternity-I
will not give you up!" cries he, madly. "0
Ermine, try to stay! Are we not told that all
things are possible to will? Surely your place
is here! Surely God does not want you as I
do!" cried the poor fellow, in the greatness
of his grief unconscious of his own irreverent
words.
Something like a look of pain crossing her
f&amp;ce, however, makes him suddenly aware that
this fever of earth is marring the calm which
is already of heaven.
"But suppose I would rather go?" she
whispers. "For a long time death was very
terrible to me, and I shrank from it-but now
it seems so easy. Pain and strife are all gone
-and would you bring them back? Ab,
Alan, you say our Lord does nQt want me. At
least He loves me, for He takes me from every
possible grief of life, to give me this painless
death in your dear arms-and ah, who can
tell what more beside! But for your grief,
poor love, I should be quite happy!"
At this he chokes it back. After all, life

I


112

EBB-TIDE.

is long, and he has all its years for mourning
-if he choose to use them for such a purpose.
Surely, then, he can refrain from breaking the
divine peace which hedges around this gentle
handmaid of the Great King-this tender mar.
tyr, who bore her cross unflinchingly until she
sank in the dust of the wayside, and to whom
has come now the rest which follows faithful
combat.
" Alan," whispers again the sweet voice
whose music will soon be hushed for earth,
"will you promise me once more that you will
not endeavor to avenge our wrongs.-on any
one9?"                 --
She had read well the direction of his
thoughts, she had understood well the ominous
knitting of his brows. He started, and blushed
like a convicted school-boy.
" My darling," he said, " can you not trust
me to do what is right, can you not believe-"
" You must promise me,"' she interrupted,
eagerly. " I cannot die in peace unless you
do. I will not leave you with a possible sin to
stain your soul, and perhaps-who knows-.
keep us apart forever.-Lucia!1"
She extended one transparent hand, and
Lucia-seeing what she meant-placed the cru.-
cifix in it.
"Promise me on this!" she said to Alan.
" See !-I cannot argue with you any more ; I
can only ask it of your love. Remember it is
the last gift you will ever be able to give to
mec." -
He bends his head, and, taking her hand,
kisses the crucifix which she holds before him.
" I promise," he said ; then, with a burst,
"0O Ermine,- there is nothing I would not
promise you !-but this is hard !"
" Is it ?" said she, with a tender smile.
" Where there is no sacrifice, there is no merit.
Our Lord will know how to repay you nll it
costs. One thipg more, and I am done: will you
give this to Mdelon "-she unclasped a small
cross and chain from her neck--" and tell her
from me that I beg her, by the love she used to
bear me, to take her own name, and, for her
soul's sake, not to live under the weight of a
constant lie ?: Give her my love, but say noth-
ing of my forgiveness-I cannot think that it
is needed ; I cannot think. that she dreamed
of this."                             '.
He took the chain and looked at it irreso.-
lutely. -He knew that he could not trust him-
self to see the treacherous woman from whom
he had parted in unsuspecting friendship.

" Cnn I not send it in a letter ?" he asked,
at last*.
"Yes," she answered, "that will do. I
have written myself." Then, after a short pause,
she glanced at the maid.-" Lucia, is it not
nearly time for the Angelus ? " .      ,
" It will ring in a few minutes,sinr,
answered Lucia, sadly-..
"Then say the Litany for a Departing SouL'
I am a little tired now."
The girl at once began the litany in the
usual sing -song Italian fashion. All was
hushed and silent in the saloon, while her
voice rose and fell over every supplication-.
The cadenced tones came out to Lamar, and,
though he did not recognize the beautiful
words which they chanted, instinct made him
pause in his tread. He knew the end must
be at hand. Meanwhile, Ermine lay white and
silent as a lily in her lover's arms, and, even
when the last supplication had died away, she
remained so motionless that Miss North's heart
stood still.
" Ermine !" she said, leaning over.
But the soul had not yet gone. The lids -
lifted from the dark eyes-the light of affec-
tion flashed into them. She held out her arms
toward her faithful nurse.
"Kiss me!" she faltered, gently. "I-I
think it is very near."
After this long embrace was over, she gave
a kind farewell to Lucia-whose passionate
grief alone found vent in sobs-then, looking
up at Alan, she smiled faintly, and said-
"Nix ! "
In a few minutes the dog was brought.
IHe seemed to know that something not usual
was the matter, for he scarcely needed his
master's warning, and placed his leonine paws
with great gentleness on the couch. For the
last time those slender, wasted arms went
round his massive throat.
" Good-by, dear old fellow !" she said,
with loving tinderness-and kissed him gently
between the ty s that were gazing at her with
such strangji, w stful intelligence.
"Let hi~ saay," she murmured, brokenly,
as Alan triegl tc make him go away. " He re-
minds me of the old times-the dear old times!
Love, do you remember them ? Ah, how
happy we were -Is it not something to have
been so happy onc? "
Then the Iids fell again. Her head lay on
his shoulder-for ie had raised. her that she
might give her fiirewells-and her pure, ala-

I

I

THE TIDE
baster cheek rested against his own, hot with
the fever which was consuming him. His
passionate kisses woke no flush on the white
skin, kindled no fire on the sweet lips. Even
when he called her name in love's tenderest
tone, the dark lashes which veiled her eyes
scarcely trembled-.
But now the sun had gone, and suddenly
over the shining waters came the soft sound
of a bell chiming from the tower of an embow-
ered convent not far away. As Lucia sank on
herknees, and Miss North involuntarily followed
her example, the lids lifted once more from
those eyes which Alan had thought closed for-.

GOES OUT.                             113
ever. Feebly she raised her hand and made
the familiar sign of the cross. Her ear caught
the familiar words which Lucia was sobbing
forth. When the verse was ended, she joined
softly in the "Ave."
" Hail, Mary, full of grace-"
There the voice stopped-forever The
last words she spoke on earth were the words
uttered eighteen hundred years ago by the
angel of the Annunciation to the Holy Virgin
of Nazareth.r
And so, while the whole world of faith
were on their knees, the tide ebbed gently
away upon the Unknown Sea.

S

THlE END.

I


MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

'a

A STORY IJV~ SIX CHAPTJiR~

CHAPTER I.
'~r WONDER what she will be like?" said
.1-. prel~ty Rose Inglesby, half musingly,
half pettishly. "She might have had con-
sideration enough to send one her photo-~
graph! It is very tantalizing to be expect-
ing a woman, and not even to know what she
looks like-not even, in a generaL way, wheth-
er she is pretty or ugly. Suppose I toss up a
sixpence, and decide that point at least by
heads and tails? Mamma, have you a six-
pence?~~
"Don't be foolish, Rose," answered Mrs.
Inglesby, placidly.
This was Mrs. Inglesby's usual reply to
her daughter's usual flow of gay nonsense;
and on this occasion the remark had a de-
cidedly sedative effect. Miss Inglesby leaned
back, yawned, and said no more. The flies
hummed drowsily, the clock ticked obtrusive-
ly, and for five minutes an unbroken silence
reigned in the bowery drawing - room, with
its lace curtains and India matting, its grace-.
ful furniture, and cool, Venetian blinds. The
two ladies, who were its only occupants, had
the width of the room between them; and,
although it was evident that they were both
enduring that unpleasant expectation which
is the same in kind, however much it may
differ in degree, whether a battle or a guest
is impending, yet it was also evident that they
bore this trying ordeal very differently. Mrs.
Inglesby-a model of the "fair, fat, and
forty" type of good looks-seemed indemni-
fying herself for her broken siesta by a luxu-
rious rest in a deepfauteuil, while Rose-wh~o
was seated in an inscrutable school-girl fash-
ion in the corner of a sofa-did not keep still

for two consecutive seconds, At last, rest.
lessness prevailed over indolence, and with a
quick motion she rose to her feet.
"This is intolerable I" she said. "What
with the heat, and the waiting, and the un-
certainty, I am so nervous I don't know what
to do with myself. Mamma" (indignantly),
"I believe you are absolutely asleep!"
"No I am not," said Mrs. Inglesby, inn.
suspiciously drowsy tone of denial.
"I only wish I was!" said Rose; and
then she began pacing to and fro. As she
moved across the floor, practising various
steps, and various modes of carrying her
shoulders and arms, by way of passing the
time, she suddenly caught a glimpse of her-
self in a large mirror, and this glimpse made
her pause. She stopped and gazed, fascinated,
as any one else might have been, by the fresh.
ness of her complexion, the grace of her feat-
ures, the sheen of her hair; and as she gazed
she smiled-.-.first unconsciously at her own
loveliness, then consciously at her own vanity.
"Mamma," she said-paused a moment,
considered, and finally went on-." mamma, I
wonder if she will be prettier than I am?"
"Prettier than you are!" echoed Mrs.
Inglesby, with a start. Then she looked up
at her daughter, and it was easy to see from
the coolness with which she went on that this
egregious want of modesty was not uncommon
on Miss Inglesby's part. "I can't say, Rose;
but I should think it was very probable. She
had quite a reputation before she was married,
you know; and Harry-..poor fellow ?-always
spoke of her as a great beauty."
"I have something of a reputation, too,"
said Rose, still looking at herself In the glass
"and if I married r am sure I should feel very


116               MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.                                                    MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.              11 ~'

badly if my husband did not think I was a~
great beauty. Thank you for your informa-
tion, mamma; but neither of those two points
is very novel or very conclusive. She really
might have had sufficient consideration to
send one her photograph," repeated the
young lady, impatiently. "This uncertainty
will drive me distracted I"
"Isn't that five o'clock striking?" asked
Mrs. Inglesby. "The train is due so soon
now that it would hardly be worth while to
go distracted, I think, Rose."
"It is due at 5.10, I believe," sa~id
Rose.
This reflection sobered her, for she walked
to the window and looked out silently on the
broad street with its rows of green shade-
trees, the golden sunshine streaming through
them, and the long shadows thrown across.
She made a pretty picture, standing by the
window in the green dimness of its half-closed
blinds, with the lace curtains all around her,
and a hanging basket swinging just above her
head-such a pretty picture that a gentleman,
who at this moment came down the quiet
street, paused suddenly at sight of it. He
was a dark, slender man, of medium size, who,
as he paused, took off his hat and spoke in
the tone and with the manner of a familiar
acquaintance.
"Good - evening, Miss Inglesby. What
miracle have I to thank for the unexpected
pleasure of seeing you? It surely must have
been a miracle to bring you down from your
siesta at five o'clock on such an afternoon as
this-the warmest of the season, everybody
says."
"Good . evening, Mr. Keunon," returned
Miss Inglesby, with a smile and a blush.
"You haven't any miracle at all to thank for
seeing me. I cut short my siesta unwillingly
enough, I assure you; and I only did so be-
cause we are expecting my sister-in-law this
afternoon."
"Your sister-in-law I" he repeated, start-
ing slightly, and, as it were, unconsciously.
"Yes, my sister-in-law. Is that a vety
disagreeable anticipation? You look as if
you thought so."
"Did I look so? Well, it is disagreeable
so far-that I can't ask permission to ring
the door-bell and profit by your exemplary
virtue."
"No, I am afraid you can't. The train is
due by this time, and no doubt they will be

here very soon-more's the pity l" added
she, with a grimace.
"Yes, the train is due," said he, glancing,
at his watch; "but it will be some time be-
fore your sister-in-law can arrive - fifteen
minutes, at least. That gives me ten. I hope
I am not detaining you from any thing more
pleasant?"
"Oh, not at all," answered Rose, quite
deaf to various significant sounds that were
proceeding from the part of the room where
her mother sat. "If you don't mind stand-~
ing on the pavement, I am sure I don't mind
standing here. It's rather entertaining, in
fact."
"Come out on the balcony, then, won't
you? That Undine light is very becoming,
but I should like to shake hands, and I can't
well manage that across the balcony and.
through the blinds."
"You will have to dispense with thaV
gratification, I fear. I cannot come out on
the balcony at this scorching hour of the day
-(No, mamma-I have not an idea of going
,-and I must say you look very comfortable
where you are, Mr. Kennon."
"I am very comfortable," said Mr. Ken.
non-which in truth was not remarkable, as
he was leaning against a large elm, with his
face to the window and his back to the tree,
thus enjoying at his leisure the shade cast
freely down upon him, and the pretty picture
arranged before him. "I am very comfort..
able indeed; and I will unite usefulness to
comfort, by letting you know as soon as the
carriage containing your sister-in-law comes.
in sight. Does your brother accompany
her?"
"My brother I" For an instant Rose
opened her eyes~ "Oh, you are thinking of
my other sister-in-law-my brother Robert's
wife. This is the widow of my brother who.
is dead-my poor brother Harry. She is
travelling alone, and papa has gone down to~
the station to meet her. - We have never
seen her," proceeded the young lady, waxing'
quite confidential. "She and Harry met in
Europe, and were married there, and went
straight to Brazil, where he had a position as.
engineer; and "-her voice fell-" he died
there. When his wife came back, she went.
to her own friends, and so, though it is three
years since she returned, we have never seen
her, and-O Mr. Kennon, we do wonder so.
much what she is like!"

KI

"Do you?" said Mr. Kennon. "1 am a
little surprised at that. Of course most wom-
en have reason to be curious about another
woman; but you need not fear a rival near
the throne."
"I am not sure about that," said Rose,
candidly; "Widows are very fascinating;
and I think I have heard that she is a
beauty."
"Her beauty ought to 1e worn off by this
time," said Mr. Kennon, with the sneer that
often disfigured his handsome mouth. "Can
a woman bury husbands ad libiturn, and show
no sign of it? If there is one popular be-
lief more than another which fills me with
disgust, it is the belief that widows have any
attraction to men who do not prefer all their
goods and chattels second-hand," he went on,
with a bitterness which surprised Rose, yet
pleased her, too; thoughitwould have waked
the suspicion of a more worldly-wise woman.
"There is something about a widow that
smacks of the charnel-house," he continued.
"Either she loved her first husband, or she
did not-in either case, who cares to be his
successor?"
"Then I suppose the I~elle veuve of French
comedy has no attraction to you?" said
Rose, half archly, half shyly.
He laughed-not pleasantly, by any.
means.
"If ever I make up my mind to marry
one," he said, "I shall order my wedding-
coat from a pawnbroker's. There would be
an exquisite fitness in the association of,,
things. But I thjnki see the carriage corn-
ing-so your c4~osity with regard to this
particular widow will soon be gratified. I
hope she will prove every thing she should
be, and I hope you will let me come to see
you soon.~~
He lifted his hat and bowed. But Rose
did not return the salutation. She had turned
to tell her mother that the expected guest
was near at hand; and, when she turned back
again, he was already walking rapidly away.
She had meant to say something before he
went-something that would bring him back
soon-but it was too late now. The carriage
was approaching, and, even while Mrs. Singles.
y was saying, "You might really hav~ some
egard for ray wishes, Rose, in the matter of
encouragingthat Mr. Kennon," it drew up
before the house.
The two ladies went out at once to wel-

come the stranger. As they reached the
front door, they saw Colonel Inglesby assist-
ing a tall, graceful woman in a long crape
veil, and a long black cloak, from the car-
riage. Rose's heart gave a bound. "A
beautiful figure, at any rate," she thought;
"and still in widow's weeds!" The next
moment, there was the rush of reception and
greeting-hands clasped, kisses given, half-
uttered words spoken~, a few tears shed, per.
haps, for this visit coi4d not be other than sad
in the thoughts and ass iations which it wak-
ened, and, when all t~ft(s subsided, the young
widow was within her husband's home.
"You would like to go to your own room at
once, would you not, my dear?" asked Mrs.
Inglesby, as they entered the hail.
"Thank you, yes. I am very tired," the
stranger answered, in a sweet voice.
So she was borne away to the upper re-
gions, while Rose-who was intensely curious'
to see that veiled face-found herself left to
endure her curiosity as best she might.
She did not endure it very well. She was
impatient and unsettled, and she roamed rest.
lesnly about the drawing-room waiting for
her mother to return, and quite unconscious
that Mrs. Inglesby had come down-stairs and
been absorbed into the dining-room, whence
proceeded, ever and anon, that friendly clatter
of dishes which speaks so confidently f
coming cheer. John was a good servant, but
rather stupid; so his mistress, who was natu-
rally anxious that, on the first day of the
stranger's arrival, everything should be right
and proper, had thought it best to go and
superintend matters in person. Hence, Miss
Inglesby fidgeted in the drawing-room quite
alone; and hence, 'also, she went to the win-
dow and stretched her neck to gaze. up and
down the street, in faint hope of seeing Mr.
Kennon on the visible horizon. While she was
thus engaged, the rustle of a dress sounded
behind her, and a melodious voice said:
"Have I drifted Into the right room?"
and, turning suddenly, she faced h~ sister-in-
law.
In a moment she saw what she was lil~e,
and in a moment, too, her heart, without.
rhyme or reason, sank down into her very
shoes. "Yes, this is the right room," she
said, "and I am very glad to see you. Pray
sit down." Meanwhile, she thought, "What
a vain fool I was to wonder if she would be
prettier than I ~km I" In truth, Mrs. Henry


118               MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

Inglesby was a woman such as one does not
see very often. As eke stood in the soft,
golden light, with her graceful figure, her
flowing dress of lustrOless black silk, and the
folds of sheer white crape at her neck and
wrists, she looked so queenly and imposing
that pretty, dainty Rose shrank into absolute
insignificance before her4 Then, what an ala-
baster complexIO~k; what statuesque features;
what large, full eyes of the rare golden-brown
tint; what rich, heavy masses of magnificent
golden-brown hair? Altogether, she was a
woman whose beauty ilo one could deny, a
woman born to lead hearts captive by right
divine of her witching face, and a woman v~ith
a fascination quite independent of these per-
sonal gifts, as Rose herself was soon forced
to acknowledge.
For, beginning with soft, ~ad remembrances
~f the bright young engineer, who had been
the link between them, Mrs. Inglesby soon
won her way to the girl's heart. Her man-
ners were very ~*eot and graeious-.a little
too dignified, perhaps, for the taste of the
present day, but '~erj perfect, for all that;
and very well oal~ulated to wear away, by
gentle degrees, the bsr~lers of shyness and~
reae~ve. Thoughthe'dead "Harry" had been
only' Rose'S half-brother, she was very tender
towardd his memory; and, despite the beauty
which at first had startled her, was very well
disposed' to like the wife of whom he had been
so proud. The two 'Were talking like old ac-
quaintances when Cololiel Inglesby came in
'aft8r 'awhile-a little shaken from his ordi-
nar~y' calm, a little subdued in his ordinary
manner; for, "though he had said nothing
about it, this visit was a trial to hini, recall-
ing, as it did, the son who had been, of all the
'children, hi~ favorite and pride. He was re-
lieved when he ~aw how matters were pro.
greasing, for Rose was an uncertain girl at
alltimes~ and in nothing more uncertain than
her likes and dislikes4 It had been a matter
of doubt how she would receive the new sis-
'ter.in-law; and, therefore, her father was re-
lieved to see that friendly relations were al-
ready established between them. Soon after
his entrance Mrs. Inglesby appeared, and,
presently, dinner WaS announced
The evening which followed, though a
strictly domestic, was far from a dull one.
The Ingleshy house was, of all houses in Nor.
thorpe, the most popular )n &amp; social way;
and, though to-night not one of its usual vis-

itors rang the door-bell, or dropped in for the
"half-minute" that always lengthened into a
half-hour, or probably several half-hours, no
one missed them, or felt time tedious because
of their absence. True, Rose looked once or
twice wistfully toward the street, as a mascu-
line step rang on the pavement, oi~ a mascu-
line voice floated through tl~e window; but
she bore the unusua'I isolation very well,
and even she acknowledged, when the even-
ing was over, that the new sister-ia-law was a
singularly charming person. What the latter
had said or done that was specially attractive
nobody knew; but that whatever she said or
did had a grace of it~ own they all felt. .Af-
ter she had bidden them good-night, and re-
tired to her chamber, they each looked at the
chair where she had lately sat, and where the
fragrance of her presence still lingered, and
each expressed, in different ways, the same
degree of admiration.
"Poor Harry !-poor fellow!" said the
colonel, rising and walking to and fro "It
was even harder on him than I thought-to
leave all his bright prospects in life, and such
a wife, so soon. I have not seen as fine a
woman-I don't know when," he went on,
quite regardless that his wife and daughter
were listening to him. "I hope you will take
some lessons from her, Rose. Her manners
are perfect."
"They are very good, papa," said Rose,
with a slight toss of her bead; "but, as for
their perfection, that'S all a matter of taste,
you know~ Some people might think my
manners perfect, and then I should be sorry
that I had changed them forthose of my sis-
ter-in-law. She is as pretty as she well can
~be, however-don't you think so, mamma?
Oh,'if I only had such a complexion, and such
a nose, and such eyes, and, above all, such a
figure, I should be happy-happier than I
ever shall be again after seeing them in the
possession of another woman, and tbat woman
a widow!"
"Widows are usually considered very at-
tractive," said Mrs. Inglesby, in her quiet
way. "I remember, when I was young, I
used to be more afraid of them than of girls,
a great deal. Alice is so lovely, too-I don't
wonder poor Harry used to rave about her.
She won't be a widow long-you may depend
on that, Rose!"
"It don't concern me one way or an-
other," said Rose, carelessly. "I like her very

p

'I

MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.             119
4

much-a great deal better than I expected-
and that is all. I believe I'll go to bed. I'm
a little sleepy and tired, though I haven't the
excuse of a journey, as Mrs. Inglesby had.
By-the-way, I must make up my mind before
tomorrow what I shall call her. 'Sister' is
absurd, and I can't say 'Alice.' She is far
too grand-I should much sooner think of
saying 'your majesty.'-Good.night, papa. I
will practise manners, if you think I need im-
provement so badly."
The spoiled child kissed her father, bade
her mother good.night, and went her way up.
stairs. When she entered her chamber, and
closed the door, she walked straight to the
toilet-table, turned up both jets of the gas,
and looked at herself from head to. foot in the
larg9( swinging mirror. This careful survey
lasted about ten minutes, then a satisfied
smile came over her face, and she nodded
complacently to the reflection smiling back at
her. "You don't lose so much by the com-
parison, after all," she said. "And Kennon
admires little women-he told me so himself."
-4--
CHAPTER II.

La belle reuse, as Rose inwardly styled her
sister-in.law, made her appearance the next
morning in a becoming trifle of a Marie
Stuart breakfast-cap, of the sheerest white
crape, which gave to her costume the last
possible touch of refined elegance. "Why
did Providence ever see fit to make such a
ravishing creature a widow?" was Miss In-
glesby's thought,' as she watched the graceful
entrance of the stranger, and exchanged a
moderately affectionate greeting with 'her.
"Am I early or late?" asked the latter,
in her rich, sweet voice-'--the voice of a born
contralto. "You did not mention the break-
fast-hour last night, and I am always lazy on
the least, provocation."
"You are early, as it chances," said Rose,
watching her with unconscious envy, and al-
most wishing herself'a widow, that she might
be able to wear such an irresistible coif.
"Mamma is not down yet, and breakfast is
not ready."
"And are you' always so early?" asked
Mrs. Inglesby, glancing at a hat and veil near
by, which had apparently just been laid aside.
"Not always, but I have been a little Un-
well this spring, and Dr. Ilawdon advised a

walk before breakfast, so I try it occasion-
ally. There is a very pleasant square near
us, and it is always deserted early in the
morning. One might practise gymnastics
there with perfect impunity."
"Indeed!" said Mrs Inglesby, smiling.
"I am rather fond of a constitutional my-
self," she went on. "If you have no objec-
tion, I think I will join you some morning."
"I-of course I shall be very glad," said
Rose-but she stammered, and, despite her-
self, looked unmistakably dismayed.
This expression, qifickly as it was ban-
ished, did not escape her sister-in-law. The
beautiful brown eyes gave one keen glance
which Rose did not soon forget, and then, as
a flush came over the delicate guelder-rose
complexion of the girl, Mrs. Inglesby walked
to one of the low French windows which
overlooked a garden blooming with the royal
beauty of May.
"What beautiful flowers you have!" she
said. "I suppose the dew is gone by this
time, and one mayventui~e out with impunity?"
"Jackson, our gardener, is so careful to
keep the walks clear of grass, that you need
not fear any amount of dew," said Rose, fol-
lowing her, and unclosing the sash.
They walked down the garden-paths to-
gether; but, while Mrs. Inglesby was de.
~lighted with the dewy freshness and fra-
grance of every thing around, and while she
stopped continually to admire or gather some
tempting, bud or half-blown blossom, Rose
seemed strangely indifferent to the winsome
charm of these bright darlings of the spring.
She sauntered listlessly along, and looked so
often in the direction of a house' near by-a
large, handsome, old-fashioned house, set in
a large, old-fashioned garden, Which was di-
vided by a high wall from their own-that at
last her sister-in-law remarked the fact
"Who is your next-door neighbor?" she
asked. "Being so .near, you ought to be so-
ciable."
"We have n~ next-dooi' neighbor," an-
swered Rose, a little shortly. "The house is
unoooupied."
Mrs. Inglesby stopped 'in the act of pull~
ing a Noisette bud, and' looked at the house
in question. For an unoccupied dwelling it
certainly presented a strange appearancejust
thea-blinds were open, windows were raised,
stir and movement were plainly ~isibIe Within.
As she looked, a gentleman showed himself


120

MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN--LAW.

at one of thlopen windows, and then hastily
vanished.
"If your house is not occupied, it must
be haunted," said she, turning to Rose with a
smile.
But hose was frowning as she-gazed in
the same direction, and her companion, whom
nothing escaped, saw that one tiny foot was
beating nervously on the gravel~path
"The new owner must have. come~" an-
swered she, almost bitterly. ~ When I said
it was not occupiedI sn~ jha~ the old man
who used to live 'there is dead, and that his
nephew, who inherits the ~p1ace, had not ar-
rived."
"So it ha~ changeiJihands," said Mrs. In-
glesby, looking with considerable interest at
the stetely house over which the bright May
sunshine slanted as lovingly and gayly as if
no coffin hed ever passed across the thresh-
ol4 "I think I should hate to leave such a
lio~e. What was tha name of the old man
of w~hom you speak?"
"He was an old wretch," said Rose, yin-
dictively, "and his name was Devereur"
More than this meagre information Mrs.
Inglesby did not receive. As Rose uttered
the last word, there came through the open
windows the clear, ringing sound of the
breakfast-bell, and the two ladies retraced
their steps to the house.
The day passed very quietly, and so, like-
wise, did the evening. But again no visitors
dropped in; and it really seemed as if thO
curiosity of Northorpe was to be restrained
in simply heroic degree. This evening, how-
ev~; Rose showed unmistakable signs of
enntd. She strolled listlessly to and fro,
haunted the neighborhood of the front win-
dows, started whenet~ev there was a step on
the pavement near the door, and finally com-
mittedthe enormIty of anundisguised yawn.
Somewhat a~liamed of this last achievement,
she went to the piano; but, in the midst of
her very first song, there came a Sharp peal
of the door-bell that made her start and turn.
.A.iioment lati~t John passed through the hail
t~ answer the summons, nnd Mrs. Henry In-
glesby, who was listening, ~with exemplary
pstlenseto h~r mother-in-law's placid stream
of small-talk, loOked up with a little Interest
in the inter*~sj~tlon. As she looked up, her
eye chanced to fall on Rose, and something
in the girl'% fa~e attracted her attention.
She was listening eagerly-listening with lips

parted and color varying-to the sounds at
the froji~,4oor; to John fumbling an instant
or tw~.t the handle before turning it, and to
a v#ee-a round, jovial voice-inquiring if
Cqhinel Inglesby and the ladies were at home.
,The bright brown eye~ that were watching it
saw a swift flush of vexation come over the
listening face, and the lips meet only to be
impatiently bitten. "Poor child I" thought
the elder and more experienced woman, "she
is looking for some man who has not
come."
Somebody had come, however; for, be-
sides the voice aforesaid, a hat and stick were
audibly deposited in the hall, and a stout old
gentleman, in a wig, soon made his appearance
at the open door.
He was greeted cordially by the colonel
as "Brent," and was plainly an intimate friend,
from his own greetings to Mrs. Inglesby and
Rose.
When he was presented to the young
stranger, he at once claimed the privilege of
shaking bands, on the score of having been
a life-long friend of her husband and her hus-
band's family,
The bustle of reception being over, and
all due compliments paid, he sat himself down
and plunged at once into social topics, in
which Rose alone seemed to take no interest.
While he talked at one end of the room, she
went on playing at the other, and it was not
until the name of Kennon caught her ear that
she took her hands from the keys and turned
round.
"What was that, Mr. Brent?" she asked,
quickly. "Did you say that Mr. Kennon has
left town?"
"I said he intended to leave," said Mr.
Brent, while Mrs. Inglesby exchanged a quick
glance with her husband. "I met him on the
street to-day, and he told me that he was of
-to be gone a week, I think he said. But I
rather incline to think "-here the old gen-
tleman looked very significant-" that he has
gone for good."
"Why?" demanded Rose, with ill-re-
strained eagerness.
Mr. Brent glanced round at his audience
before he tapped his snuffbox gently, and an-
sweked, with a smile, "Because Philip Deve-
reux has arrived."
T~ say that this item of news made a sen-
sation would be to state an extreme fact as
mildly as prSsible. Whoever Mr. Philip

1'

I


MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.               121

cd
S
0
C.)
C)
C)
"C
0
C)
U)
0
"C
~0
C)
C))
a
U)
a
Cd
-4.
Cd
Cd
U)
C)
0
a
a
-a.
C)
a
0
C
0
C.'
a
S
C)
a
C.,
a
0

Devereux might be, it at least was evident
that his arrival in Northorpe was a matter ol
importance.
The colonel said: "Bless my soul! yot
don't say so?" Mrs. Inglesby dropped he,
crochet-work and said: "Dear me! is it p05
sible?" while Rose, turning first red and thea
pale, uttered never a word.
"Devereux!" said Mrs. Henry Inglesby
speaking quietly in the pause which ensued
"Is not that the name of the person who lives
next door?"
"It was the name of the person who lived
next door," said Mr. Brent, "and-yes, it is
the ni~me of the person who does live next
door. Mr. Devereux, the old gentleman-a
fine old fellow he was, too-eh, Inglesby ?-
is dead; but his nephew, who succeeds to
the property, and who, I was just saying, has
arrived in Northorpe, is named Devereux
also."
"It is a good thing that the old name
won't die out among us," said Colonel In-
glesby, straightening himself back in his
chair.
"I tiwught I noticed a great commotion
of house-cleaning over there to-day," said
Mrs Inglesby, in her mild way; "but it
really did not occur to me that Philip Deve-
reux had arrived.-Dcar me, colonel, you
must call on him at once. We were such
good friends with old Mr. Devereux; and you
remember how he used to come sociably
through the garden of an evening to play
whist with us?"
"I shouldn't be surprised if Mr. Philip
Devereux learned to be sociable in the same
way-to play something besides whist, per-
haps," said Mr. Brent, with a laugh and a
glance at Rose, both of which Rose treated
with silent disdain.
"Odious old wretch !" she thought to
herself; but she would not gratify him by
deigning to resent the point of his feeble lit-
tle joke.
"Of course he has come to take posses-
sion of the property," said Mrs. Inglesby,
after a minute. "But will he-a young man
and a bachelor-live in that rambling old
house, Mr. Brent?"
"He needn't always be a bachelor, you
know, my dear madam?' answered Mr. Brent,
with another "odious" chuckle. "There'll
be caps enough pulled for him among the
girls of Northorpe, you may be sure-that is,

t if he stays long enough to give them a fair
chance."
"He may sell the real estate," hazarded
the colonel. "Unless he does mean to marry
and settle down, such a young man would
- scarcely care for that kind of property."
"That is more than I can tell you," said
Mr. Brent. "Nobody knows-I doubt even if
he knows himself-his final intentions about
the property. A very fine property," pur.
sued he, "and a very fine young man to
inherit it. No comparison between him and
* a reckless adventurer like Kennon, eh?"
Before the colonel could give the assent
which was plainly expected, down came a mu-
sic-book on the piano-keys with a crash, and
Miss Inglesby rose to address the company.
"That is the way of the world!" she
cried, with a ring of genuine indignation in
her voice. "Everybody is always against the
unfortunate, and-and always ready to cali
them names. I don't suppose that Mr. Ken-
non is any more of an adventurer than all
poor men are obliged to be; and, if 1w had
obtained the fortune, Mr. Brent, you would
say of him exactly what you now say of
Mr. Devereux!"
There was quite a pause after this. No-
body answered the impetuous girl. The
three old people looked at each other, while
~Rose looked at them; and, if anybody had
gIan~ced aside at Mrs. Henry Inglesby, he
would have seen that she was smiling a
peculiar sort of smile to herself as she bent
her face down over a photograph-album which
she had taken up.
It was Mr. Brent who stoke first, indul-
gently and kindly, as one might speak to a
child.
"That's hardly a fair conclusion, Rose,
when I say of Kennon only what every-
body said long before his grandfather's death,
and before the suit about the property was
decided. Everybody knows, too, that he baa
only himself to thank that his cousin inherits
the estate. Mr. Devereux would never have
disinherited his gran4son for his nephew if
he had not had good reason for it."
"His mind was poisoned against Mr..
Kennon," said Rose, with the promptness of
one who has learned a lesson and knows it
by heart.
"Nobody who knew him is likely to credit
that," answered the old gentleman, with a
shrug. "There never was a juster man, or a

121


122               MISS INGLESBY'S 5ISTER-IN-LAW.                                                  MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.             12a

man less likely to be deceived. It must have
gone hard with him when he was obliged to
leave the bulk of his fortune away from his
own grandson; but I doubt if anybody who
knows any thing about Laurence Kennon
could blame him."
He spoke the last words gravely; then,
before Rose could reply, turned to the colonel
and proposed a game of whist.
"We are four," he said, "even if Mrs.
Inglesby "-glancing at the stately young
widow.-'-" does not play."
As It chanced, however, Mrs. Inglesby. did
play, and willingly agreed to take a hand.
So the card-table was brought forward,
and the quartet sat down-Colonel Inglesby
claiming his daughter-in-law as partner, and
bidding Rose give them some music as ac-
comptnimenL
The girl obeyed, playing waltzes, galops,
and the like, for some time; but at last the
gay strains ceased, and, when her father
looked up at the close of a hard-foughtgame,
the piano-stool was vacant, and the musician
gone,
Several days went by, and the tide of
Northorpe society flowed in again upon the
Inglesby family, receiving, indeed, an unusual
impetus from Northorpe curiosity to see the
beautiful young widow, concerning whom
many good judges of beauty had already be-
gun to rave.
"How does Rose like a rival so near the
throne?" people asked each other, shrugging
their shoulders; but as yet nobody could say
that Rose showed any signs of uneasiness or
jealousy.
It was rather providential, from a social
point of view, that just in this languid sum-
mer weather, two sensations came to Nor-
thorpe at the Same time-i. e., Mrs Inglesby
and Mr, Devereux.
According to the spirit of the gallant
French proverb, we have given precedence to
the lady; but the popular mind arranged the
matter just the other way.
During these days Mr. Devereux was the
theme of every visitor who came in state, or
dropped in sociably at the Inglesby house.
"I am sick of his very name," Rose de-
clared, passionately; while even her sister-in-
law, who said nothing, began to look a little
weary when the threadbare subject was again,
and yet again, lugged to the front of conver-
sation.

But Mrs. Inglesby did not weary of it,
and seemed to feel as much interest as the
rest of Northorpe in penetrating the shell of
reserve which, provokingly enough, Mr. Deve-
reux had seen fit to draw around himself~ He
mingled freely enough with men, but to ladies
he was an enigma who deliberately avoided
their society.
"Very pleasant fellow, indeed, but shy as
a girl," was the verdict of all the gentlemen
who had called on him and been received
with courteous cordiality; but the invitations
which society showered upon him had so far
been persistently declined. It was of no use
at all to worship the rising sun when he ob-
stinately refused to let his rays shine upon
them.
"Laurence Kennon would have done bet-
ter than that," people said, indignantly; which
was going very far indeed, since, as a general
rule, Northorpe held Laurence Kennon in
holy horror.
At last, however, relief came to the af-
flicted community.
A certain Mrs. Reynolds, who was the ac-
knowledged leader of fashion in Northorpe,
returned from a visit of some weeks in a
neighboring town, and armounced her inten-
tion of storming Mr. Devereux's castle in
person.
"His mother was a dear friend of mine,~~
said this lady-who belonged to that benevo-
lent class who have "dear friends" in every
direction-" and I mean to bring her son for-
ward. It will never do to let him make a
hermit of himself like this. Shy men need
to be forced into society. I shall give a din-
ner next Thursday, and take no denial with re-
gard to his appearance.
This gratifying intelligence spread like
wild-lire through society; and, wh~n the in-
vitations to dinner appeared in due form, it
threw all dinner-going Northorpe into a twit-
ter of excitement, for, knowing their leader,
they knew well that the matter-the Devereux~
appearance, that is-was an accomplished
fact.
It was during this momentous time that
Mrs. Henry Inglesby (whom, to cut a trouble-
some title short, we shall hereafter call Alice}
was alone one morning in her room, when
there came a slight, hesitating knock at the
door. When she said "Come in," the door
slowly opened, and her mother-in-law stood
on the threshold.

I

"Excuse me, my dear," she said, hurried-
ly, "but here is a note which I brought for
you to read. I should not have disturbed you,
only it must be answered at once."
She came in, and, closing the door behind
her, extended an open note. Alice received
it, and, glancing over the few lines which it
contained, found that it was an invitation to
the dinner, from Mrs. Reynolds, who had
called on herself the preceding day.
"This is for you to decide," she said~ after
a minute. "My decision will depend entirely
on yours. Do you mean to go?"
"My dear, that is exactly what I came to
see you about," said Mrs. Inglesby, solemnly,
whereupon she sat down and heaved a sigh.
"Rose is the best girl in the world," she went
on, "but she is very wilful sometimes-so
wilful Vbat neither her father nor myself can
do any thing with her. You would scarcely
believe that, for half an hour, I have been
trying to induce her to accept this invitation,
and that she absolutely declares she will not
do 50 1"
She paused after this statement; but
Alice's only reply was a slight arch of the
eyebrows. She had been long enough in the
Inglesby household to find no difficulty what.
ever about crediting the assertion.
"It is quite true," said Mrs. Inglesby, i~i
reply to this little token of attention. "Now,
for a particular reason, I am. very anxious
that she should accept it, and-and-but, my
dear, I may speak to you in confidence, may
I not? Well "-when Alice had assured her
that she might-" the truth is, that a gentle-
man whom I desire very much that she should
meet is to be at tbis dinner; and, if she does
not go, she will lose the best opportunity of
attracting his attention. Other girls will be
there, you know; and, though Rose is the
belle of Northorpe, still, my dear, there's
nothing like being first in the field, especially
when a young man is a stranger in a strange
place."
"I suppose the gentleman is Mr. Deve-
reux?" said Alice, who had not listened for
nothing to all Northorpe's stream of conver-
sation.
"Yes, it is Mr. Devereux," said Mrs. In-
glesby, blushing a little. "But," she went
on, hurriedly, "I must not let you think that
it is only because he has inherited a fortune
that I want Rose to attract him. He is a
young man of whom everybody speaks well,"

* said the mother, looking pathetically into the
beautiful eyes bent on her. "He is steady
and well-principled, and he would make a
good husband for Rose; while, oh, my dear,.
my heart aches to think she may be led away
to marry a man who is none of these things! "
"Let us hope not," said Alice, touched by
the tone of these last few words. Then her
voice grew quiet and indifferent again, as she
added: "I suppose you mean that she may
be led away to marry Mr. Kennon?"
"Yes, I mean that," said Mrs. Inglesby,.
too full of her subject to wonder at this
knowledge of it in a stranger. "Rose seems.
infatuated about him, while he-my dear, I
am confident that he is nothing but a fortune-
hunter, who, because she is an heiress-my
fortune was all settled on her, you know-
thinks he will be doing well to marry her."
"Some men who are fortune-hunters make
tolerably good husbands," said Alice~ in a
cold, abstracted way.
"But this man is a wretch!" said Mrs.
Inglesby, indignantly. "You have no idea
what he is. Why, he acted so badly that his.
grandfather disinherited him, and left his es-
tate to Mr. Devereux. And that man for my
Rose! I-I had almost rather see her in her
grave."
"Think twice about that," said Alice,
quietly. "Every thing in the world leaves
room for hope, excepting death, you know~
I see your difficulty, and I appreciate your
confidence. Tell mc how I can help you, and
I will do it."
In her own way, Mrs. Inglesby told her,
and, after a good deal of questioning, Alice
arrived at a knowledge of the service she was.
requested to render. In brief, it was this-
that the invitation of Mrs. Reynolds should
be accepted by herself, but that Mrs. Ingles-
by should decline going-an attack of rheu-
matism from which the colonel was suffering
giving her a convenient excuse for remaining
at home. In this case, Rose was placed in an
awkward dilemma. Either she must be guilty
of the rudeness of allowing her sister-in-law
to make a first appearance in Northorpe so-
ciety quite alone, or she must change her
mind and accept the invitation. Alice having
given her consent, Mrs. Inglesby went to place
the matter before the young insurgent, and
soon returned with a submission in due form.
The invitation was, therefore, accepted; and,
the principal points being settled, all other-


124               MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.                                                   MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.              125

issues were allowed to rest until Thursday-
the day of the dinner-should arrive.
-4--
CHAPTER III.
WHEN Thursday at last arrived, it brought
quite an assemblage of guests into Mrs. Rey-
nolds's drawing-~oom. Northorpe was not
only a flourishing place, but lt was also an
extremely fashionable place, and, as has been
said before, of all the fashion in Northorpe'
Mrs. Reynolds was the acknowledged leader.
It cannot be saying too much to hazard the
assertion that, on the Thursday in question,
this lady was a very happy woman. She was
not only giving a dinner, such as no one in
Northorpe besides herself could give, but she
had secured for this dinner the persons of all
others concerning whom Northorpe was most
full of curious speculation. Then, the beau-
tiful Mrs. Inglesby would also make her first
appearance in public on this occasion; and,
if Mrs. Reynolds had been a euchre-player,
she would certainly have said that, if Mr.
Devereux was her right bower, Mrs. Inglesby
was her left.
The gentleman was the first on the field
of action, and was made warmly welcome by
Mrs. Reynolds. When he was presented to
the assembled guests, they all expressed their
pleasure in extremely flattering terms; but
they all acknowledged to themselves that Mr.
Devereux was by no means so distinguished
in appearance as they had been induced to
expect-why, it is hard to say-that he would
be. It is true that he was tall, and that he
had a well-built figure-two trump-cards in
the popular estimation of good looks-but his
manners werQ reserved in the extreme, and
his face was of that excessive fairness which,
blotting out all tints, leaves only the beauty
of feature and expression. In this ease, the
features were very indifferent, and the ex-
pression, like the manner, very reserved. A
physiognomist, looking at the face, might
have seen that it would light up well, that the
gray eyes would grow luminous under ex-
citement, and the quiet mouth break into
pleasant smiles. But people in general
thought the countenance dull as "well as
plain; and, if its owner had not been a per-
son of importance, would not have hesitated
-to express this opinion. Hp gave them good
.opportunity t~scrutinize his appearance; for,

instead of devoting himself to the entertain.
ment of some of the ladies who were moment-
ly growing more numerous, he kept his place
by Mrs. Reynolds's chair, leaning against one
corner of the mantel, eying the gay company
with the gaze of a contemplative recluse, and
looking, as more than one young lady de-
clared, "the very picture of a diffident man."
Suddenly, however, there arose a diversion
-suddenly, for a moment, even Mr. Devereux
was forgotten. At the door there was a Stir,
in the room there fell a pause, and while
everybody was gazing eagerly around, Rose
Inglesby and her stately sister-in-law swept
up the long drawing-room.
Mrs. Reynolds met them half-way with
great empres8ement, and, while her greetings
were made, a whisper of irrepressible ad-
miration was passing from group to group.
"Is she hot superb?" "how dazzling she
looks to-night!" "77~atis my idea of a beau-
tiful woman!,' "What graceful manners!"
etc., etc.-men and women rivaling each
other in open, honest praise. For once, no-
body even noticed Rose. Pretty as she was
looking, charmingly as she was dressed, the
belle of Northorpe obtained scarcely a glance
in the scene of her own triumphs and in
the midst of her own vassals. No eye left
Mrs. Inglesby to dwell on the dainty, blue-
robed girl beside her. "Rose looks very nice-
ly," was all that people said; and they only
said that after time, with a start of recollec-
tion.
If Mr. Devereux made only a questionable
success, Mrs. Inglesby created a sensation.
Mrs.. Reynolds iVas fairly besieged for intro.
ductions; and before long the young widow's
gracious manners had completed what her
beauty had begun. Every woman in the
room was charmed, and every man was at her
feet. The finishing touch to this success was
given when the duty of taking her in to din-
ner devolved on Mr. Devereux; and, having
thus safely paired off her lions, Mrs. Reynolds
felt the ease and repose of a well-satisfied
conscience.
At first Alice fell into the common error
of taking Mr. Devereux's quietness for stu-
pidity, and pitching the tone of her conversa-
tion accordingly. But she was too clever a
woman not to learn better than this from his
first remark, and in a few minutes she had
drawn him out sufficiently to see that his re-
serve was not unconquerable, nor his quiet.

ness of that troublesome kind which degen-
erates into heaviness. He was a cultivated
man himself~ but it had been his misfortune
to know very little of the society of cultivated
people; so, a. woman who was young and
beautiful, with sense enough to meet him on
his own ground, and lightness enough to lend
grace to the dullest themes, was a phenome-
non to which he bowed at once. Before din-
ner was over, Rose saw how matters were
drifting. And, though she had angrily re-
pelled the idea of attracting Mr. Devereux,
and had even gone so far as to declare that
she would have nothing whatevein~ to say to
him, she felt a throb of genuine disappoint-
ment that she was not to have the opportunity
of showing that she did not care for the at-
tentions of this desirable cavalier.
l3ef4re the evening was over, everybody
saw that Mr. Devereux was quite captivated
by the beautiful widow. He did not abso-
lutely spend the whole time at her side; but,
whenever he was with anybody else, he re-
lapsed into his usual reserve and silence,
proving such a very unsatisfactory companion
that several young ladies were reduced to the
verge of despair by a total exhaustion of their
conversational ideas. It was only when he
was again under the influence of Mrs. Ingles-
by, that he revived and became once more a
genial and pleasant companion. Of course
there was but one explanation for a state of
affairs like this; and that explanation the
company in Mrs. Reynolds's drawing-room
were not slow to give. "Your handsome
sister-in-law has accomplished what all the
young ladies in Northorpe promised the~-~
selves the pleasure of doing," said an
lady to Rose; and Rose made the most fooIl~
ish speech in the world when she answered:
"1 beg you will make one exception when you
speak of the young ladies of Northorpe, Mrs.
Holmes. Ihave neither promised myself the
pleasure, nor felt any desire to attract Mr.
Devereux." "Oh, my dear, you can't sup.
pose that I was thinking of you," said Mrs.
Holmes, apologetically. And in truth she
had ~ot been thinking of Rose at all, know-
ing that she wa~ an heiress, and therefore
quite able to please herself in a matrimonial
way. But, after this speech, her eyes were
suddenly opened. Soon everybody in the
room knew that "Rose Inglesby was ready
to bite off her sister-in-law's head because she
had secured Mr. Devereux."

Great was Mrs. Inglesby's dismay when
she heard how matters had gone on that
momentous evening. Too late she recognized
her own folly, too late she felt that she would
have given any thing to undo her own work.
It is the highest compliment to the good
lady's simplicity to say that such a fear as
this had never entered her head. Rose, in
her eyes, was invincible, and she had boldly
thrown Rose in juxtaposition with a woman
whom any ordinary mother would have avoi&amp;-
ed as men avoid the plague-a woman of
beauty so remarkable, of attractions so great,
that no girl could safely have encountered
her as a rival. When Rose made her mali-
cious report of how the fortunes of the night
had gone, Mrs. Inglesby could freely have
choked herself~, if choking herself would at
all have mended matters. But, as that was
out of the question, she could only think,
"Perhaps he will change his mind when he
sees Rose by daylight."
The fallacy of this hope was soon demon-
strated. Two days later, Mr. Devereux called
-supported by the liberal aid and counte-
nance of Mrs. Reynolds-saw Rose by day-
light, and barely said six commonplace, civil
words to her. It is impossible to be very
devoted in the course of a ceremonious morn-
hig call; but, as much as was possible, he de-
voted himself to Alice. His eyes followed
her, his whole attention was engrossed by
her; and, when he left, Mrs. Inglesby was
justified in her despairing thought-" It is
all over. That dreadful Kennon is inevita-
ble."
A week passed; another week followed,
and still the dreadful Kennon had not made
hj~ appearance. Some people smiled, and
Aid he would not come back at all, that he
~ad no desire to see his cousin basking in
the prosperity which might have been his
own, and that he had quietly taken himself
off the scene. Others tl\ught differently;
and among the latter was Miss Inglesby.
Rose kept her opinion to herself; but, in her
own mind, she was firmly persuaded that
Kennon would return. That fund of vanity,
which often stands a woman in good stead,
assured her that he would come back, if only
for the farewell that had not been said, for
the last words that had not been spoken.
"He might leave Northorpe in this ungra-
cious way, but he never would leave me," she
thought, considering the while what a pleas-


126               MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.                                                 MISS INCLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.             12~

'sire it would be to show him that she at least
*did not court Mr. Devereux's society, nor de-
sire his attentions. True, it would be several
degrees better if she could show him that
these attentions had been at her command,
and that she had declined them; but, since
this was impossible, she was fain to console
herself with the thought that it was at least
the more dignified position never to have re-
ceived them--never, as she flattered herself,
to have appeared conscious of MrDevereux's
existence.
'This. dignified pose, however, became
rather trying and awkward, as time went on,
tind, the ice having once been broken, Mr.
Devereux found his way very frequently into
the Inglesby circle. At first he came like
every other visitor, in orthodox and formal
fashion, through the front-door; but before
long he discovered that a short cut through
'the garden was much more convenient, and
that it was very pleasant indeed to drop into a
sort of ami de la maisots place in the bowery
drawing-room, full of the scent of roses, the
graceful presence of women, music now and
then, bright smiles and social ease always.
Despite her bitter disappointment, Mrs. In-
glesby could not help liking the young nian.
He was so quiet, so unobtrusive, so thorough-
'ly refined, so genial, when he once fairly
thawed. "Oh, if he would only fall in love
with Rose!" she said to her husband. But,
provokingly enough, the colonel seemed cx-
~cellently well satisfied with matters as they
were.
"lie's a trifle too grave and dignified for
a butterfly like Rose," he said. "I think he
shows his sense and his taste in choosing
Alice. She's a grand creature, and, by
George! any man might be proud to win her.
1~here is nothing I should like better than to
'see her settled with us for life-just over the
-way, in that fine old Devereux house, too!"
"The house where I have always hoped
'to see Rose!" said Mrs. Inglesby, in a tone
of exasperation.               /
It was trying to the poor woman, beyond
doubt-.4--and the more trying because she had
130 sympathy from anybody, unless, indeed
(as she often imagined), there was sympathy
in Alice's large, golden-brown eyes. Mr.
Devereux's devotion to the fair, young wid-
ow tiecame, in a short time, exceedingly
nianifest, but it was impossible for the most
hearing tongue in Northorpe to say that she

"encouraged" him. Neither did she repel his
attentions. The gentle stateliness, the ab-
solutely perfect courtesy of her manner, was
the same to him as to every one else-a trifle
warmer, perhaps, because of the familiar po-
sition which he had gained, and also because
she liked him sincerely.
Rose, on her part, could not help feeling a
little sore about the unconscious yet most
successful rivalry of her sister-in-law. Every-
body in Northorpe was raving over "that
beautiful Mrs. Inglesby," and Rose would not
have 'been human if she had not felt that it
was a little hard. Her own friends, her own
admirers, her own vassals, were offering their
incense at another shrine before her very
face. "I can't see why a woman should not
be satisfied with having had one husband !"
thought the girl, resentfully, as she watched
some of these scenes of homage. "Ithink
widows ought to shut themselves up in con-
vents, or spend their lives doing good to the
poor, instead of looking ravishingly lovely in
black silk and white crape, and Marie-Stuart
caps, to-to turn silly people's heads!"
It was a matter of satisfaction during this
time that Kennon did not swell the number
of these silly people. Often when Rose was
worn out with the manner in which every-
body chanted the praises of her sister-in-law,
there was a very great and sensible satisfac-
tion in recalling those bitter words concern-
ing widows which Kennon had spoken when
she saw him last. As was said at the time,
the girl was not enough of a woman of the
world to suspect what might underlie this
bitterness. She only smiled to herself as she
thought there was no fear that he would ever
swell the new beauty's train! She might en-
snare the rich cousin, but the poor one could
be trusted to withstand her fascinations.
It was about this time that Mr. Devereux
came to Mrs. Inglesby one day and asked if
she would be kind enough to do the honors
of an entertainment which he had thoughts
of giving. "It is not a pleasant thing to do,"
he said; "but I have been very hospitably
received in Northorpe, and a return is only
courteous. Besides, since I intend to live
here, I-perhaps I should begin to cultivate
society a little." Mrs. Inglesby agreed that
this was entirely right, aiid, smothering a
sigh, asked what kind of 'entertainment he
wished to give.
"I leave all that to you," said he, looking

a little puzzled; "but I thought of a dinner,
and a-a dance, perhaps, in the evening."
"That is just the thing," said Mrs. Ingles.
by; "but you must not ask me to do the
honors of the occasion. You must go to Mrs.
Reynolds. She would be mortally offended
if you did not ask her; nnd she has so much
taste that, if you give her carte blanche, she
will arrange something very charming for
you."
"But I would rather you managed the af-
fair," said the young man, simply.
She shook her head, laughing.
"I have *oo much regard for your inter.
est to do it," she said. ~' I could arrange
the dcunestic part of your entertainment-
and I will give you any assistance in my
power T but, for the social part, you need
somebody like Mrs. Reynolds."
"Won't you plead for me I"' said he,
turning to Alice and Rose. "Mrs. Reynolds
will simply extinguish me."
But he found that there was no appeal.
Everybody decided against him, and said that
Mrs. Reynolds was the only person for the
occasion; so, he was forced to submit, and,
with what grace he could muster, go and lay
his petition before that ~oeial sovereign.
It Was very graciously received and
granted. All was grist, in the social ways
that came to Mrs. Reynolds's mill; and soon
Northorpe rang with the anticipatedf~te, and
the splendor of the preparations which were
in progress at the Devereux house. For the
space of an entire fortnight every thing with-
in the staid old mansion was turned upside
down in the most complete and exnsperati~
manner. Sounds of hammering resounded
all over the neighborhood. Curtains, car-
pets, furniture, allwere renovated and changed.
Having obtained entrance into the house,
Mrs. Reynolds found it delightful to give her
taste (which was certainly excellent, though
rather extravagant) full rein for once. Par-
titions were knocked down, and partitions
were put up -the quiet old looms scarcely
knew themselves in their bright, new guise.
As for Devereux, having called down the
infliction upon his own head, he felt that
there was lie hope of redress, no refuge but
submission. He might, however, have igno-
miniously fled, or ended his existence with
prussic acid, if he had not possessed the
quiet retreat of the Inglesby house, and the
Inglesby garden. But, coming over in the

dewy softness of the summer evening, and
pacing by Alice's side up and down the green
paths, with the fragrant roses blooming all'
around, the stars faintly gleaming into sight,
and a mocking -bird singing a sweet love-
song in the jasmine-hedge, he could almost,
forget his troubles, he could regard carpen-
ters and upholsterers without enmity, he
could even cover with the mantle of Chris-
tian charity the whole race of "society.lead.
ers."
When' at last the day of trial came, he
girded himself up like a soldier going to
battle, and really acquitted himself so well
that he surprised everybody.( Alice, in espe-
cial, was charmed with his bearing-its quiet
dignity and graceful courtesy.
"You don't know what credit you have
done yourself," she said to him with a smile,
when he came to her after dinner.
"You don't know what agonies of shyness
I have endured," he answered.
"And conquered," she added, with a
glance of approbation that would have repaid
him for any thing.
"You arc very good to say so," he replied,
gratefully. "But, since duty is over, pleasure
ought to follow. Will you let me name my
reward, and-give it to me?"
"You are at liberty to name it, of course;
but how can I give it to you?"
She looked at him so kindly as she ut-
tered the last words, that he did not lapse
into the diffidence with which a cold or a
flippant reply would assuredly have over-
whelmed him.
"I have a friend who is an artist at Dus-
seldorf," he said, "and by my request he sent
me several paintings, which I have received
within the last few days. They all have
great merit; but one, in especial, I should
like to show you. It is an exquisite bit of
Thuringian landscape. I have hung it in the
library for the present. If you would come
and let me show it to you-"
~"So it is a pleasure you mean to give
me," she said. "I thought U was to be the
other way. But, of course, I shall be very
glad to come.
By special stipulation, the library had not
been included in the transformation wbich
the rest of the house had undergone. About
it, therefore, still hung the mellow aroma of
age. It looked very inviting when they e'?l~
tered-with its books and pictures, and white


128

MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

busts gleaming in the shaded lamplight.
The windows were all set wide open to the
soft summer night, while the fragrance of
roses, jasmine, and honeysuckle, was wafted
in on the night breeze, and seemed to fill
every corner of the room.
Removing the shade from one of the lamps,
Devereux held it up so that she could see
the picture of which he had spoken. She
had no special repossession toward art, but
her culture had been too thorough for her
not to cordially recognize and fully appreciate
excellence in this respect. She praised the
picture-which was truly worth praising-as
much as he could possibly have desired.
Then she began to look about the room.
Some of its old family portraits elicited her
admiration-in the very old time, family por-
traits were not alwa~,'s daubs-and then she
began to examine various French and German
engravings hung here and there in nooks and
corners.
"So this is where you write!" said she,
pausing before a table upon which signs of
literary occupation were to be seen. "What
a pleasant place for authorship-at leisure!
You ought to be a poet, Mr. Devereux, sit-
ting in this charming old library, with a
rose-garden under your window, and a view
of lovely scenery beyond! But what is this
hanging over your table?"
"Only an engraving I found among my
things the other day," answered he. "I
hung it here because I thought-or I fancied
-that the feminine figure resembled your-
self."
"Indeed!" said she, smiling. "In that
case, I must see it more closely."
He held the light for her, and she saw
that it was a scene such as some of the mi-
nor English artists are rather fond of paint.
ing. Even in the engraving, it showed con-
siderable art and skill. A fair, stately woman
dressed in widow's weeds-a woman whose
general appearance was so like her own that
the resemblance was patent even to herself-
stood in a church-yard by a large white mar-
ble cross that marked the head of a freshly-
made grave. It was evident that she had
just arisen from her knees, for the grass was
bent down all around her, but the proud, ex-
pressive dignity of her attitude was match-
less, though there was a certain pathos on
the lines of the steadfast fae. A strong con-
trast was made by the figure at tha other end

of the grave-a slender, handsome man, who
stood with folded arms fixing on her a glance
of fierce passion and fierce disdain. The
background of the picture framed these fig-
ures admirably. There were green yews
drooping over an old Gothic church, quiet
graves and crosses hung with wreaths of un-
mortelles.
"It is a good picture, and, I should think,
well painted," said Alice, at last; "but I
don't like the subject. There is something
repulsive about a love-scene in a grave-
yard."
"Do you call tAct a love-scene?" asked
Devereux, in surprise. "I should call it any
thing else. It is evident that he is an old
lover whom the lady had forgotten or re-
jected; but it is also evident that he has
come not to sue, but to upbraid. See, how-
ever, the magnificent repose and dignity of
her whole face and manner! That is what
reminds me so much of you."
"You flatter me," she said, smiling. But
she moved away from the picture, as if she
did not like to look at it.
"Take my advice," she said, after a min-
ute. "Hang this exquisite head of St. John
over your writing-table, instead of that scene
which leaves one in doubt who was right or
who was wrong, and gives no clew to the re-
sult of the dramatic situation."
"Uncertainty is not always the worst
evil," said he, half sadly. "There are ninny
others much worse. Sometimes certainty is
one of them."
She answered nothing, but moved ona
little farther, and paused before one of the
open windows, gazing out on the fragrant
stillness of the summer night. She looked
like a fair dream-lady in her sweeping white
dress, yet her pulses were beating very
quickly, and the atmosphere about her
seemed full of a certain thrill She knew
that a word - nay, a glance-would bring
upon her the issue which she had fully ex-
pected to meet that night. But, somehow,
this picture had unnerved her, and she could
not resolve to meet it. Old memories came
back with strange force. Something in the
dark, scornful face of the man at the foot of
the grave-something of expression, not of
feature-had wakened much which she had
thought long since dead. For once her usual
stately self-control did not come at her call.
Devereux, for his part, felt chilled by her

U

MISS INGLESB3

sudden silence and reserve. His heart san
-he feared more than he hoped. He hes,
tated-doubted-asked himself if he had nc
better wait.
They were still standing apart in this wa
when a whist-quartet came in, and the oppoi
unity was lost.
CHAPTER IV.
"Ir there is a bore in this world great'
than the bore of going to see 'views,' I don'
know what it is!', said Rose Inglesby, a~
she sat at the breakfast-table in her riding
habit, eating her muffins and drinking hei
coffee with the air of a martyr. "I hat
scenery!" the young heretic went on vi
ciously~ "and of all kinds of scenery I thinly
I hate cascades most. There is no end tc
the shoes I have worn out over those abonui
nable rocks-you need not laugh, papa! You
really haven't an idea what it is to be made a
victim in this way."
"My dear child, why don't you stay at
home, then?" asked Mrs. Inglesby, mild-
ly.. "That is just like you, mamma,"' said her
daughter, hopelessly. "If I did stay at home,
you would be the first to say that it was
awfully uncivil to let Alice go alone, espe-
cially since the party was made up for her.
I fancy she is nearly as much bored as I am,
only she takes good care not to say so."
"It isn't everybody who is as blind to the
beauties of Nature as you are, Rosie," said
her father. "I've do doubt Alice will enjoy
the cascade very much."
"Well, perhaps she may," returned Rose
the skepti~.al. "I forget that she is going in
Mr. Devereux's new dog-cart, with Mr. Deve-
reux himself to talk 'the sublime, the heroic,
and Mr. Carlyle,' all the way. These things
may season the cascade for ~her. Not pos-
sessing them, they naturally don't season it
for me."
"Mr. Anson is very pleasant, Rose," said
Mrs. Inglesby, in deprecating support of the
gentleman who was to have the honor of
riding at Miss Inglesby's bridle-rein.
"He was pleasant six months back," said
Rose, coolly; "but I exhausted him long ago
-most men are not good for more than three
months-and he tires me to death now. Oh
dear!"
9

~'S SISTER-IN-LAW.                     129
k This apparently rather irrelevant sigh was
I. addressed to the memory of Kennon. "It' As
t were only here!" Rose thought. In that case
it is probable that her martyr excursion would
y have worn a very different seeming.
Mrs. henry Inglesby entered just here,
and her appearance ended the conversation.
She was dressed in driving-costume, and dis-
played a pair of wonderfully strong boots for
the colonel's admiration.
"They have told me so many frightful
r things about the rocks," she said, "that I
t have shod myself as if for an Alpine ascent.
I am afraid I am late. Rose, isn't it nearly
- time to start?"
"Indeed, I don't know," said Rose. "I
only wish I had been there and was safely
- back again.
It may be well to premise that the excur-
sion which Miss Inglesby regarded with so
* much discontent was one that no stranger
visiting Northorpe was ever Buffered to neg-
lect-to wit, a visit to a certain famous cas-
cade near the town. On the present occasion
the excursion was to take the form of that
most tiresome of all social amusemepts-a
picnic. At the Devereux entertainn-~ent the
plan had been mooted. Mrs. Reyt!olds, who
was the most obliging of social purveyors,
paid at once that she would cli.aperon any
party desirous of visiting the's falls; and a
party was forthwith arranged. Of course, Mr.
Devereux placed his equipa'e at Mrs. Ingles-
by's command; and whe~, this attention was
gracefully accepted, Nrirthorpe, of course,
nodded its head niore' sagely than ever, and
said, "What a suital',le match it will be!"
It is one thing to drive with a man, how-
ever, and quite wKlother to marry him. Mrs.
Inglesby found 'the first very pleasant as she
bowled along in the early freshness of the
bright, sumlrAer morning; but perhaps it ;5~q
because sb'8 had not quite made up her mind
with regard to the second that she kept the
converse ation steadily on the smooth ground
of o9iinary subjects. Those topics which
Roe',, included under the general, or father
vague, head of "the sublime, the heroic, and
YLr. Carlyle," served very well for the five or
six miles of moderately good road traversed
before they reached their destination.
"I believe we must alight here," said Mr.
Devereux, drawing up his horses on the sum-
mit of a hill, where the road they had been
following suddenly came to an end in the


130

MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

midst of some woods. "You see the eques-
trians have dismounted," he went on, pointing
to several horses -fhstencd under the trees,
"and the best thing we can do is to follow
their example. Now"-after they had alighted
"shall we make the descent?"
"Had we not better wait for Mrs. Rey-
nolds?" said Alice, who felt indolent and
ready to stay where she was, at least for atime.
"The others have not waited for us," said
her companion, in reply to this; "and it is a
case of every man for himself in the matter
of descent. Mrs. Reynolds has three or four
people with her; but, if even she were alone,
I am sure I could not render assistance to
any one beside yourself."
"Wait and see if I need it," said Alice,
smiling. "I am trained in the matter of
mountain-climbing--and the only time I ever
absolutely needed help was in ascending Mont
Blanc. That was terrible! Is this the way
we go? Then lead on, and let me see if I
~s~annot dispense with the assistance of which
~u speak."
~' You surely will not be so unkind as to de-
.~piive ,ine of the pleas!lre of rendering it," said
he, ~wfiti~ a great deal of seriousness in his
4eyes,~&amp;esp~itc the jest in his voice.
"'I will make no rash resolutions," she
;~answered. '"Lead~n, and let me see."
Without another word, he obeyed, leading
~4he way along a ~narrow path, and, after a mo-
nient, down an ~jjmost precipitate hill-side.
'The way was very ~\)nding, so winding that it
was hardly possible ~ ~ see more than a step
in advance, and Alice ~ on found herself slip.
ping and sliding from oLe steep rock to an-
other, with the least possi~\~le amount of per-
sonal ~volitiiui, and the lea~Ot possible idea
~where '~imwas going next. j~, 'fore very long,
~~he (eame to a halt.
~L U~ink yo~z will have to hAP me over
this place, Mr. De'resunx," she said~ in a hesi-
tating voice.
And Mr. DevereuX~whO had been li,.~tening
with painful intensity f~r this sound, tvrrned
in an instant.
"I thought you would find it very rough~"
he said, as if apologizing for tbe rougbnes~
Then, with a thrill of pleasure, l~e took the
small, gloved hand outstretched to him, and
carefully assisted her along the descent, which
momently became more difficult.
"Surely we must be nearly down, now,"
she said, at last; and, as she spoke, they

made a sudden turn, stumbled over some
sharp rQcks for about twenty feet farther, and
then found themselves on smooth ground, with
the cascade before them.
Now, there can be no doubt that there are
many cascades far more beautiful than this
which was the pride and boast of Northorpe.
Still it was beautiful enough to warrant a
considerable amount of enthusiasm from en-
thusiastic people, and beautiful enough to
startle Alice Inglesby into silent admiration
when she came upon it thus. She had not
expected much, and it was with a feeling of
surprise that she found herself quite taken by
storm. Looking round, she saw that they
were in a deep gorge between the hills, or
rather in a sort of basin, which at one end
opened into a ravine. On the opposite side to
where they stood rose a stately hill, crowned
to the summit with foliage almost tropical in
its luxuriance; on the other, a frowning cliff
of dark gray rock leaned far over, and threw
its deep shadow down below. This cliff ex-
tended round in circular shape, and, where it
met the green hill already mentioned, a small
stream forced its way between enormous moss-
covered rocks, and sprang over the precipice,
sending up a shower of spray and foam, and
spreading out at the bottom into a glossy pool
that lay likea sheet of crystal at Alice's feet.
As it glided away down the ravine, falling in
miniature cascades at every step, the same
stream filled the solitudewith the fitful mono-
tone of its voice, like a poem of Nature's own
singing.
After a long silence, Mrs. Inglesby turned
to her companion. "We are poorly off for
adjectives," she said, "or else we must use
them too freely. 'Beautiful' seems to me a
weak word for all this lavish glory; &amp;et what
better word does the language afford? Can
you suggest one?"
"There arc a good inuny," he answered,
"but they are all liable to the same objection.
We use them for lesser things, until they lose
force, and are unfit to express our admiration
of the greater. When you see a green mead-
ow, or a sunny hill-side, or a stretch of shad-
owy woods, what do you say?"
"Generally, 'How beautiful!' or else, 'How
Jovely!"'
"Or else, 'How picturesque!' or some-
times even 'How grand! Well, when you
stood on the summit of Mont Blanc, what did
you say?"

I

MISS INGLESBY'!

"You have never stood there, or you
would not ask me. I said-nothing."
"And you said nothing here-and I can
suggest nothing that is worth saying. We
must blame ourselves-~.not the language. It
gives us terms, but I am afraid there is no
doubt that we debase them. Unless we say
'Stupendous!' I really think we must hold
our peace."
"Let us say 'Stupendous!' then, by all
means," answered she, smiling; "and, having
said it, let us sit down."
"Stop a moment," said he, as she was
about to suit the action to the word, and sit
down on i~ convenient rock near by. "This
is such a public place-that is-you know
Mrs. Reynolds and her party will be upon us
before long. Let us explore a little, as those
who reached here first have done."
She hesitated an instant, then consented,
and they moved away. As they skirted the
pool, and crossed the stream that was hurry.
ing down the ravine, they caught sight of
several of their companions-some making
very picturesque effects as they were perched
on overhanging rocks, and others climbing,
with laborious energy, up the steep mountain-
side.
'i" We will go over yonder by the cascade,"
said Devercux. "Are you fond' of 'ferns? I
see some beautiful ones growing there on the
rocks."
So, over to the cascade they took their
way, and led on, partly by Devereux, partly
by the ferns, and partly, also, by her own in-
clination, Alice ascended from point to point
of the rocks, until at last she found herself
elevated much above her former sttnid.point,
but profiting very little in the way of pros.
pect. The dense undergrowth of the moun- 1
tam shut in the view on one side; on the 1
other, the whirling rush of the falling water
was all that could be seen.
"I hope this is sufficiently secluded for
your taste," said she, looking up at Devereux I
with an air of resignation. "I am very tired
-may I sit down now? Thanks - yes, I
would like my ferns."
She sat down on a stone, and, leaning
back against the massive 'gray rock, began
examining the ferns and lichens which her I
companion laid in her lap. She had taken a
ofr her hat, and laid it beside her, as a recep- f
ta~le for the selected specimens. Her rich t'
hair caught the sunlight as she bent her head, s

SISTER-IN-LAW.                    131
and exercise had given a very clear and brill.
iant color to her cheek. Beautiful always,
she was almost more than beautiful now; and
it was not strange that Devereux held his
breath as he stood looking at her. She did
not notice the gaze, partly because it was her
policy to ignore it, but kept on talking in her
light, graceful way about botany in general,
and fer~as in particular, until at last his con-
tinued silence forced itself on her attention.
She looked up, then, with a laughing question
on her lips; but, despite her self-possession,
stopped short. The moment that she met
them, his eyes told her that the issue was at
hand.
Now, it is not to be supposed that she
needed to be told.-but she had not expected
it just then. She was off her guard, as it
were, and a shock is always unpleasant, let it
come how it will. She colored vividly-flush-
ing, indeed, t the very roots of her hair--
then, as he was bout to speak, rose to her
feet.
"I think we had better go back,"
she said, hurriedly. "I am quite rested now."
But Devercux had no mind to let his op.
portunity sliii in this way~ There had been
nothing premeditated in the matter. The
situation had taken him as much by surprise
as it had taken her; but it was upon him
now, and he meant to seize its advantages.
The fever of sudden resolution took posses-
sion of him, and, as is the case with a great
many quiet men, its very novelty lent it force.
lie had not meant to speak just now; but her
beauty first unnerved him, and then her
strange embarrassment lent him courage.
When she rose, he stepped before her.
"No, Mrs. Inglesby," he said, "don't go
back now. Stop-at least for a minute. I
have something to say to you.,~
"You can say it down below," answered
&amp;lice, suddenly, unaccountably, nervously an~-
ous to get away. "Pray, Mr. Devereux-..
ray let us go."
"Of course we will, if you desire it," he
aid; but with such a look of pain on his face
hat, although he moved aside, she stood still.
liter all, what Ibily was this 1' Why should*
he act so rashly? Why should she not hear
din? She knew, or thought she knew, what
nswer she intended to give. Why not, there.
ore, have it over at once? In a second these
houghts flashed -through hermind, and, in a
econd, also, she acted on them.


MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LkW.             133

182               MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

radonn mc," she said, looking at him
with her own gracious glance and manner.
"I did not mean to be rude. I will stay if
you wish it."
"Thank you," he answered, hastily. Then
he was silent for a moment, looking at the
spray of the cascade as it dashed by, and
striving to grasp words in which to express
the feeling that overmastered him. Words
did not come to him readily at any time, but
now he seemed to have lost all command of
them. As her embarrassment had given him
courage, so her self-possession robbed him of
it. He hesitated so long that, at last, in des-
peration, he was about to speak, when there
came the sound of crackling boughs and
twigs, as somebody forced a way through the
luxuriant undergrowth, and a distant shout
from below was answered by a voice near at
hand, saying, "Thanks, yes-I'm looking for
Miss Inglesby." The next moment a man's
hand and arm appeared over the rock, grasped
firmly the bough of a tough shrub, and, with
this help, the body to which the arm belonged
made an agile spring and lighted at Alice's
side. As she drew back, the new- comer
gained his feet, and she stood face to face
with Lawrence Kennon.
If Mr. Devereux had been questioned half
an hour later, it is to be feared that he would
have been found to entertain but a confused
remembrance of the events, of the next few
minutes. The appearance of his cousin
(whom he thought fur away from Northorpe)
was surprising enough in itself; but this sur-
prise deepened into amazement wheii he saw
that a recognition instantly took place be-
tween Kennon and Alice Inglesby.
"You I" said tl~e former, catching his
breath with a gasp, while his face paled, and
his eyes dilated almost instantaneously-
"you!"
"Yes-it is I," said Alice, quietly; then,
after a minute, she held out her hand, saying
a little wistfully, "Fate has ordained it, Mr.
Kennon. You see I remember that we are
old friends," But, instead of taking her hand,
Kenuon folded his arms, and recoiled a step.
"There is no question of fate or friend-
ship in the matter," he said, coldly "This
is simply a mistake. I was looking for Miss
Inglesby, and Iwas told that she was here. I
see that she is not, so I beg pardon for my
intrusion, and leave you to the 1~te-cl-te~te which
I disturbed."

He shot one dark, resentful glance at Dcv-
ereux as he said the last words; but the lat-
ter was too puzzled to notice it. Indeed, as
it chanced, there was nothing in his mind but
cordial kindness toward his kinsman, and, if
he could have secured a moment's time be-
fore complete bewilderment overtook him, he
would have liked nothing better than to ex-
press this kindness. As it was, he stood
still, and said nothing. Not so, Alice, how-
ever. She was mistress of the situation by
right of her supreme self-command, and, as
Kennon turned to go, she laid her hand on
his arm. Holding him captive thus, she
spoke to Devereux with the san~e gracious
smile that had given him hope when she
agreed to stay, ten minutes before.
"Mr. Kennon and I are old friends," she
said. "We knew each other long ago, and
he is naturally surprised to see me again-to
see me here. If you would not mind-if I
might ask you to leave us for a little while?
He will take me safely down the mountain, I
am sure."
Within bounds of civility~, a plainer re-
quest could hardly have beeii made. What
Devereux replied, or how he got away, he
never knew. He went, of course-there was
no alternative to that-but he carried a sore
heart with him, and it would have been yet
sorer, if he could have heard the first words
which Alice spoke after he was safely out of
car-shot.
CHAPTER V.
"So this is the meeting for which we hoped
ten years ago," she said, in her soft, full
voice. "We meet, and you repulse even my
friendship, because you are looking for Miss
Inglesby, and I-am her sister-in-law."
There was a tone in this sentence that
stung Kennon with some latent meaning; for
a flush came over his face, and he lifted his
dark eyes suddenly to her own.
" You know that is not true," he said
quickly, almost fiercely-" you know I have
not forgotten ten years ago-or the woman
who promised to be faithful to me, either.
That woman, however, was Alice Chisholm,
and not "-he paused a moment, and added
bitterly-" Miss Inglesby's sister-in-law."
"We won't tear open the old wounds, or
reopen the old quarrel," said she, gravely.

I

"It is all over-utterly past and gone. But
fate having brought us together-in a man-
ner, too, that will make it hard for us to avoid
some slight intercourse-you will pardon me
if I ask why Alice Chishoim cannot be your
friend."
"Alice Chisholm was a woman of the
world ten years ago," he answered, still full
of bitterness. "She has not so far forgotten
her worldly knowledge that she should need
to ask that question now."
"Granting that she was a woman of the
world," said she, with a vibration of scorn
in her voice, "do you think that she did not
know then, and does not know now, that you
-you, Laurence Kennon-are the last man
in the world to feel deeply or resent bitterly
a mere love-disappointment 1' If you still re-
fuse t~ take the hand which I offer-for the
last time, remember-I shall know that it is*
not wounded love, but wounded pride, which
has made you so implacable."
"You can think what you please of me,"
said he, leaning back against the rock from
which she had risen, and looking passionate-
ly at the beautiful face before him. "My
God I how I ought to bate you I" he went on.
"To think of your treachery and your co-
quetry-to think how you have wrecked my
life, as much of it as was left to wreck-and
then to think that I should come here
now-"
He broke off here with something like a
gasp. She did not answer, her color did not
deepen, her eyes did not quaiL She stood
before him like a proud, calm statue, daring
him, as it were, to say and do his worst.
Suddenlyhe advanced a step and grasped
her arm.
"You talk of Alice Chishoim," he said,
almost fiercely. "What if I were fool enough
to call her back to life and accept her 'friend-
ship!" Would she like to play the old game
over again? I believe once was enough for
me. Am I any better, any more desirable
now than when so dutifully and obediently
she gave me up-left me to live or die as
best I could-and married-"
She lifted hei~ hand with a silencing gest-
ure. "Hush! For the sake of the old time,
you can say what you please of rue; but he
was my husband-and he is dead."
"Yes, he is dead: and I did not mean to
speak ill of him. Why should I? No doubt
he was a good fellow enough-only I hated

him too much ever to find it out. Well, you
married him-not me. Now, that you are
free again, would you marry me if I gave my
heart up for your sport again, and asked you
to do so?"
Passionate as the question was, and full
of bitter scorn-the scorn of one who meets
some sore temptation beyond his strength, to
which he must succumb-it was earnest with
an earnestness that few things possess in this
world of sham and sentiment. Perhaps the
fire that rang in every tone stirred the heart
of Alice Chisholm sleeping in Mrs. Inglesby's
breast. But she was a woman of the world,
and no outward token of this appeared on
her proud, calm face, no glance of it flickered
into the clear, brown eyes steadfastly facing
his own. When she spoke, her voiq~e was
soft and even:
"Tell me, rather, if you would advise me
to do so? Those prudent counsellors of
whom you spoke are all gone now. I stand
quite alone, with my own life in my own hand
to make or mar as I please. Laurence, should
I make or mar it by marrying you?"
There was something of solemnity both In
the form and in the tone of her appeal. For
reply, the lids sank slowly over Kennon's
eyes, and once more the dark flush rose in
his cheek.
"You know yourself," he said. "You
know what people say of me. Why ask
me?"
"I ask you because you can tell me best."
"Then I tell you that you would mar it
beyond all hope of redemption," he answered,
violently. "Is that enough? Ten years ago,
when they warned you against me, I was a
paladin compared to what I have been since.
You did well to marry Inglesby then. Trust
me, you will do better still to marry Devereux
now."
She started.
"So-you knew that?"
"Know it! Would I not have been blind
and deaf if I had seen him standing here, and
not known it? But I did not need to dis.
cover it for myself. I reached Northorpe
this morning, and I heard the news from half
a dozen people before I came out here."
"You credit it, of course?"
"Yes; why not? We are both ten years
older, and you are beautiful and poor, while
Devereux, thanks to my folly, is rich, and
ready to be won."

$


134

MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

"You forget yourself," said she, haughti-
ly.
"No," answered he, recklessly, "I only
forget my new rdle-that of being an 'old
friend' of the charming Mrs. Inglesby. Alice,
Alice)" he went on, suddenly changing his
tone, awl seizing her hands, "Fate, as you
say, has brought us together once more-let
us not throw away our last hope of happiness.
Why should we not cast away all these bit-
ter years, and their bitter memories? Why
should we not live our lives out as we once
dreamed of doing?"
She left her hands in his clasp, but she
smiled coldly
"You forget," she said, "you forget that
we are ten years older, and-poor."
"I forget every thing but you," he an-
swered, passionately; "every thing but the
hope that iS shining for me in your eyes."
"Shining only to deceive, then," she said,
bitterly; but suddenly she cried out as if in
pain: "Laurence, let me go. I-I cannot
bear this. Let me go-let mc think I"
lie let her go; and, as she sat down on
the same stone where she had been sitting
when Devereux's glance startled her, he
turned his back, and, walking to the extreme
verge of the rock, stood looking down at the
white waters of the foaming cascade. After
awhile she called his name, and, when he
turned, he saw that her resolution was taken.
"It would never do, Laurence," she said,
gravely. "When you think it all over, you
will see for yourself that it would never do.
Just now you have been led away by im-
pulse, and you forget the gulf that lies be-
tween us. No, I don't mean your life or any
thing connected with it," she said, as he was
about to speak. "I mean the change that
time has wrought in our characters, in our
very selves. If we had been let alone ten
years ago, the end might have been very dif-
ferent-but now it is too late. We have
grown apart, instead of together: you have
lost your inheritance-I am entirely without
fortune. We should, in every sense, mar
each other's lives if we cast them together.
Laurence, is it not best for us each to go our
own way, and live, in the future as in the
past, apart?"
"It is for you to decide," he answered,
striving to repress the emotion which he
could not altogether conceal. "You were
always reasonable and prudent in the cx-

treme-even ten years ago. You mean, then,
that we shall each continue our present game
-that you will marry my precious cousin,
and that I must play the fortune-hunter with
that girl down yonder?"
" Laurence" (she turned on him sharply),
"do you mean to say that you do not-that
you never have-cared for her?"
"I mean to say that I never cared for but
one woman in the world, and that she threw
my love away, like t1~at "-(he snapped oft' a
twig and tossed it on the whirling waters)-
"I mean to say, too, that you may judge
whether this love was dead when I tell you
that the mere sound of your name was enough
to drive me from Northorpe as soon as you
entered it; and I came here to-day-and this
is the end I"
She put one merciless question directly
to him: "What did you come here to-day
for?"
lie answered as briefly: "To ask Miss In-
glesby to marry me."
"And yet you have asked me?"
"Yes, I am a fool. I have asked you."
"Well, I will not be a fool and take you
at your word. We are old friends-that is
all. On the strength of that friendship let
me wish you success in your wooing. Only
promise me one thing-that you will be kind
to her."
"She would thank you for such ~onsidcra-
tion," he said, bitterly-adding, with a sudden
passionate vehemence, "and I thank you for
proving to me, once for all, that ten years
ago or to-day I am equally nothing to you!"
"Laurence!" she said, startled in spite
Qf herself. But she spoke too late. He had
already flung himself from the rock and was
gone.
Poor Rose! It was hard on her when
she heard-as she did hear before long-that
Kennon had come to the falls with Mrs. Rey-
nolds; that he stayed but a short time; that
he saw Mrs. Inglesby; and that ho had gone
back to N9rthorpe without seeing her. "No
doubt it was on account of Mr. Devereux that
he went," people said to each other, as they
ate their luncheon, scattered about in pict-
uresque groups over the rocks. But Rose
knew better. A sudden instinct, an intuition
of the truth, enlightened her; and, when she
was told that he had met her sister-in-law,
nothing more was needed for its confirma-
tion. "So she has got him, too)" thought

p

I

MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

the girl, looking with gloomy eyes at Alice
as she sat in all her brilliant beauty not La
ofi'. It was very bitter-it was surely ver;
hard. Was it not enough that Devereux
who had been predestined her own captive
should fall into the stranger's toils, but Ken
non, too, must be a victim? Could not Alici
be content with the rich prize, the desirable
cousin, but must she lay hands also on tin
one whom everybody cried out upon as unde
sirable, and for whom she could have no pos
sible use? Of course it will be seen that Mis~
Inglesby was taking a great deal for granted
but that was her way, as it is the way of
most imaginative people. And her instinct
certainly pointed very shrewdly to the truth.
It would be difficult to say whether her
fears were most relieved or realized when, as
she sat~ silent and district in the drawing-
room that evening, Ke~non made his appear.
ance. She knew his step in the hall, and
animation flashed instantly into her languid
face. Alice knew it, too, and her eyes im-
mediately sought Rose with a strange, intent
gaze, of which the girl was wholly unaware.
lier own color did not vary by a shade, nor
did her manner change in the least, even
when Kennon entered, and when she was
obliged to explain their former acquaintance
to Mrs. Inglesby. Rose heard the explana-
tion, and, when Kennon came over to her,
she was too much disturbed to notice his
bearing as closely as she had wished to do.
Instead, he was able to notice and to set his
own interpretation upon the flushed checks
and wistful eyes uplifted to him. But, in
truth, this preoccupation mattered very little.
If Rose had been able to judge, she would
have found that he was entirely the same in
manner as when she had seen him last. He
had been quite unnerved that morning; quite
thrown out of the artificial self which years
and much experience of life had fashioned;
but with such a luau such a state of feeling
is only temporary To-night he was himself
again; and all the more steeled in his pur~
pose by a fierce contempt for his own senti-
ment and folly. When he saw Rose's emo-
tion, he thought, "The game is won;" and
when he sat down by her ~side, it was with
the determined resolve to make good use of
his time.
Good use of his time he certainly made;
for, though he did not absolutely ask her to
marry him-Mrs. Inglesby's watchful care

185

, and the lack of opportunity prevented that-
r he did every thing else which it is practicable
~ to do in a room full of people. When he
', went away at last, he left Rose in a fever of
excitement, triumph, and indecision. He had
- asked her, at parting, if she meant to walk
s the next morning, and she had told him yes
-feeling confident that he would meet her,
and ask the question he had not been able to
- ask that night. Yet, strange to say with re-
- gard to her answer, she was by no means
clear. It is one thing to like a man and flirt
with him to the very verge of love-making,
and quite another to promise or intend to
marry him. Rose had long since taken the
first step, but, when it came to the second,
she had still sense enough left to pause. She
knew what a storm of opposition she must
expect from her parents; what an outcry
from the world; but these things counted
little with her. In the ignorant boldness
of youth, she was ready to defy them. The
fear that tugged at her heart-strings, the fear
that made her hold back, was the fear of
Kennon himself. Not the fear of what his
life had been and might be yet-for there,
again, her ignorance made her bold-but the
fear of his love, the distrust of his sincerity.
She had felt it always, more or less; but,
z~otwithstanding that he had never been so
devoted as on that night, she felt it that
night more than ever before. perhaps it was
his strange departure from the cascade, or
thftt "foi'mer acquaintance~~ with her sister-
in-law, of which he had spoken so lightly, or
the earnest gaze in Alice's eyes when she met
them once or twice, or perhaps only that in.
tangible something which can always be felt,
if not detected, 'in an acted or spoken false-
hood. Whatever it was, the fact remained
the same. Once at least, before it was too
late, she wavered-once at least, asked her.
self whether the gain was worth the risk.
But such questions are easily answered when
years are few and impulses strong. "If I
must be miserable," thought the girl of'
eighteen, "it is better to be miserable with
him than without him. Besides, I do b~lievo
-I will believe-that he loves me!" And so'
the die was cast. When she laid her head
down' on the pillow that night, her decision
was made-she would accept him, and abide
the consequences.
Meanwhile there was another person be.
sides herself whom indecision and coriflictkept

I


MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.                                                 MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-iN-LAW.           la~

wakeful during much of that night. Long
after Rose's eyes had closedin slumber, Alice
Inglesby still paced her room, with a face
strangely set and brows strangely knitted.
It was evident that she was thinking deeply;
and truly she had cause enough for thought.
In the course of our lives it chances that most
of us influence directly or indirectly, in greater
or lesser degree, the lives of others. But, as
a general rule, we do not recognme even this
influence until after the effect has taken place.
We are rarely conscious of it at the time, for
we walk ever in a mist; and the day of our
death is not more effectually hidden from us
than the consequences of our least actions.
Yet sometimes this veil of ignorance is lifted
-partially, at least. Sometimes we are able
to behold, as in a mirror, the direct results of
certain acts, and, beholding them, we must
be strangely reckless of things present, and
things to come, if we do not pause-awed a
little by our own responsibility. It Was such
a moment, just now, with Lice. She was
painfully conscious that she held i~z her hand
the thread of fate for three lives besides her
own. She was oppressed with the sense that,
on her decision, rested the future of three
people; and that circumstance-the potent
monarch of human life-seemed for once pas-
sively awaiting her command. All day the
sense of this responsibility had been with her,
and all day she had rebelled against and de.
nied it. "I am only one of the actors," she
thought. "I have no more control over the
drama than they." But to-night this flimsy
self-deception was at an end. To-night she
saw before her the stern array of inevitable
consequences, and, since they were inevitable,
faced them steadily. "Once for all, I will
weigh the matter in every aspect," she
thought; and, as the hours went on, she still
paced the floor, and still weighed it.
She had summed up the whole case in its
personal application to themselves, when she
spoke to Kennon in the morning; but there
was the other side, the side not personal to
themselves, to be considered. When she said
to him, "You have lost an inheritance; lam
wholly without fortune. We should, in every
sense, mar each other's lives if we cast them
together," she stated a truth which he could
not gainsay; but when she was called upon
to decide for Devereux and Rose, it was not
so easy "They go into the matter with their
eyes open," she said. "Rose loves Kennon,

and Devereux loves me-is not that enough?"
But then came the question-Did they go
into it with their eyes open? Would Rose
be likely to marry Kennon if she could hear
him declare that he had never loved but one
woman, and she the woman who had given
him up ten years before? Would Devereux
accept even her hand if he could read her
heart and see how persistently it clung to the
man who had first wakened its romance and
passion? Yet what of these things'? Was
it once, in a thousand cases of marriage, that
love was equal on both sides? Did not hun-
dreds of men and women marry from motives
more unworthy than Kennon's or her own,
and yet make excellent husbands and wives?
She could answer for her own after-conduct,
she was sure. She liked Devereux well
enough to do more than tolerate him. His
character was pleasant to her, his manners
suited her, and his tastes agreed with hers.
This was a good foundation, and of herself
she had reason to be confident. But Ken-
non! There, indeed, was cause for hesi-
tation. What his life had been, she knew;
what it would be, she had sufficient experi-
ence of the world to foresee. Knowing the
one, ~'oreseeing the other, could she stand
aside and let Rose rush headlong on her fate?
In vain she thought that it was none of her
affair; that the girl's self, and the girl's par-
ents, were alone concerned. Conscience rose
up in reply, and said: "It is you alone who
can save her." "But why should I save her?"
she asked. "She is nothing to me; while
Kennon-whose interests I am serving-is
very much."
-She had scarcely asked the question when
she stopped a moment, and her glance, by
some strange magnetism, was attracted to a
miniature that lay on her toilet-table. Almost
unconsciously, she took it up and opened it~
When the lid of the case flew back, the face
of a young man looked at her from the ivory.
It was the likeness of her husband. For a
second she was startled, since usually this
miniature remained in her writing-desk, and
she could not think how it chanced to be here,
until she suddenly remembered that Mrs. In-
glesby had asked for it several days before,
and that doubtless it had been returned that
day during her absence. But, however the
fact of its presence might be explained, there
was no ignoring the effect which this presence
produced. She looked steadfastly at the

bright, young face, until large tears gather
in her eyes, and misted her sight. She ha(
loved this dead man very tenderly - more
perhaps, as she might have loved a favorite,
brother, than as women usually love thei:
husbands-but still with a depth and pathos
that could not but rush back over her wher
she gazed thus on the shadow of the face thai
was forever gone from earth. "My poo
darling !-my poor, gallant boy! "she thought
weeping softly, and wiping away the tears a~
they fell. "lie loved me very dearly, and
can never prove my love for him 1-I can
never repay the tenderness he gave me."
She said this half aloud, and she had scarcely
finished saying it, when she started. Were
her eyes bewitched, or did the face bear a
likeness to Rose which she had never noticed
in it before? reople spoke of the resem-
blance, she' knew; but she had never been
able to discover it until now. Now suddenly
it flashed upon her. Those violet eyes, look-
ing up at her, were strangely soft and wistful
for a man's; and how like they were, in form
and tint, to those she had seen gazing into
Kennon's face that night! Those lips, so
softly curved and clearly cut, wore Rose's
own smile-the smile half arch, half sweet,
which she so well remembered. Then it came
back to her, like a fo~gotien dream, how the
dead brother loved the little sister who had
been his pet and darling, how tenderly he
spoke of her, and how often he wished that
Alice could see and know her. "You would
be able to do her so much good," he had said;
and now-it was no wonder Alice closed the
case with a sharp pang, and turned away.
W~s it good she was about to do this sister
of her dead husband?
CHAPTER VI.
Iv may be imagined that, with thoughts
such as these for her companions, Mrs. Singles.
by was little disposed for sleep. In fact, she
still paced her chamber long after the other
inmates of the house were wrapped in quiet
slumber-.-long after even Rose's white lids
had sunk over her violet eyes. It was well
on toward two o'clock when, at last, she sud-
denly stopped and made an impatient gest-
ure.
"Things seem fantastic and unreal at
night," she said "Somehow, they are al-

I ways magnified, and events or feelings of
I really small importance assume gigantic pro-
portions when viewed at such a time. I know
perfectly well that all these absurd scruples
on the one hand, these old, sentimental recol-
lections on the other, will fade into absolute
insignificance to-morrow morning. There-
fore, why should I torment myself with
them? Has the surprise of the day un-
strung rue? Am I mad that I don't see,
not only what I could, but what I must,
do?"
She walked abruptly across the floor, and
drew back a curtain from ouie of the windows
-a window looking out over the garden and
toward the Devereux House. The fragrant
stillness of the starlit summer-night seemed
to come to her like a soft caress; there was
not the faintest gleam of light anywhere, not
the faintest sound of moving life-only the
perfume of the flowers, the brightness of the
stars, and the dark outline of the stately roof
cutting against the steel-blue sky. As she
stood quite motionless, she heard a clock, far
away in the heart of the silent town, striking
two; and at that moment, almost as if the
stroke had been a signal, a wild glare of flame
burst forth from the hitherto dark and silent
Devereux House.
For an instant, Alice stood petrified, ab-
Bolutely doubting the evidence of her senses,
and chained to the spot by sheer amazement;
but this inaction did not last more than an
instant. She was a woman of rare coolness
and presence of mind, and she realized at
once that, owing to the lateness of the hour,
the flames were likely to make fatal headway
before any one was roused in the quiet neigh-
borhood. She could see that the fire had
burst forth in the kitchen wing of the house.
If the alarm was given immediately, there-
fore, it might be possible to save the main
build~ig. She sprung from the window, and,
running hastily down the corridor on which
her chamber opened, she was soon thunder-
ing vigorously at Colonel Inglesby's door.
"What's the matter? Who the deuce is
that?" cried a startled voice within.
"It is I-Alice!" she answered. "Mr.
Devereux's house is on fire! The alarm ought
to be given at once! Oh, sir, pray-pray get
up!"
Colonel Inglesby needed no further adjura-
tion. She heard him say, "The devil!" and
make one spring to the fool,. "P11 be there


MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

138               MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

in a minute," he answered. "Rouse the ser-
vants, Alice! Send somebody to knock 'em
up over there. Where did the lire burst out?
Has no alarm been gi~en?"
"I have not heard a sound," she replied.
"There are never any policemen in this part
of the town, and everybody seems asleep.
The glare must wake them soon, however."
"Is the fire serious?"
"Yer~ serious, I should think."
She waited to say no more, but hastened
back to her own room to see how matters
were progressing. Even in these few minutes,
the fire hadgained considerably; but the house
itself was yet wrapped in utter stillness. A
sudden, horrible fear came over her. What
if one of the tragedies so rife in these days
of terror had been perpetrated? What if
the household had been murdered, and the
house fired to conceal the crime? Anything
seems possible in a moment of panic, espe-
cially if that panic comes at night. Her
heart seemed to stand still for a minute; then
a sudden flood of resolution came to her.
She turned, left the room, ran down-stairs-
thinking, even in this moment of supreme
excitement, that it was fortunate she had not
undressed-and, groping her way through the
dark house, managed to unbar one of the
dining-room windows, and let herself into the
garden. The whole thing occupied such a
short space of time that she saw scarcely any
change in the state of affairs when she stepped
out into the open air. She did not stop to
wonder at the quietness which still brooded
over every thing, nor to admire the effect of
the flames so vividly thrown into relief against
the deep-purple sky. She sped swiftly down
one of the paths which led to the gate open-
ing into the Devereux grounds. It was as
she reached this, and laid her hand on the
familiar latch, that the first cry of "Fire!"
rang out in the street; and, the next moment,
the deep tones of the alarm-bell sounded.
"Thank God!" she said-but still she
held on her way, knowing that succor could
not come for some time, and that meanwhile
the fire might render the escape of those
within difficult, if not dangerous. Quickly
she sped across the flower - beds, quickly
through the hedges and under the drooping
vines laden with odorous blossoms, quickly
'across the lawn damp with clinging dew,
quickly up the broad stone steps into the por-
tico. Then seizing the bell-handle, she pulled

it violently again and again. Still, no sound
answered-though she could hear it tinkling
far away.
"Good Heavens! what can be the mat-
ter!" she thought, turning round to see if
no rescue was at hand. As she looked,
she saw a man come dashing hurriedly over
the lawn toward her. The front gates were
still fastened, so that he had evidently leaped
the pilings. As he sprang up the steps, and
they stood face to face in the bright glow, she
saw that it was Kennon.
"Laurence!" she cried.
"Alice!" said he-in the tone of one
overwhelmed with surprise.
But the next instant he remembered him-
self and drew back stiffly.
"I beg pardon, Mrs. Inglesby. I was sur-
prised to see you here; but I suppose that,
like myself~ you wish to rouse the inmates.
Is it possible nobody is awake yet?"
"Nobody has stirred," she answered. "It
seems to me exceedingly strange! I am very
glad you have come. I saw the fire first,"
she went on, quickly, "my room is on this
side-I left my father-in-law dressing-and-
and-oh, pray ring the bell!"
This confused speech did not sound very
much like the stately Mrs. Inglesby, but in
truth Kennon's dark eyes were reading her
face so keenly, and she was so well aware
that he was wondering how she came to be
awake and dressed at such an hour of the
night, that her usual self-possession quite
forsook her.
"Ring the bell!" she repeated, sharply, as
he still stood looking at her. "Surely they
m~~st wake after awhile!"
Peal after peal at the bell, knock after
knock on the door producing no effect, Ken-
non shrugged his shoulders.
"Devereux always slept like one of the
seven champions of Christendom," he said,
"and it is evillent his servants share the pe-
culiarity. It' you'll stay here, Mrs. Inglesby,
I'll go round and try to get into the house
another way. This really does begin to look
serious!"
"Surely the fire-company will be here
soou," said she, anxiously-very anxiously,
he thought.
"The alarm has just been given," he an-
swered. "They are not likely to be here
very soon. I am afraid the old house will
certainly go."

"Oh, what a shame-what a pity!"
"Quite a pity!'~ said he, philosophically.
"119w are you going to get in?" she
asked, as he turned away.
"I shall break a window of the conserva-
tory," he answered, coolly.
Then he walked off, but when he reached
the conservatory, he fouz~d, much to his sur-
prise, that she had followed him.
"If you have no objection, I will go in,
too," she said. "I can wake the servants,
while you rouse Mr. Devereux."
"Are you afraid to trust mc with him?"
asked he, with a sudden bitter tone in his
voice, a sudden angry flash in his eye. "I
have not taken a degree in assassination
yet."
"You know better than that," she an.
swerod, haughtily. "Mr. Devereux is no
more to md than any other acquaintance
whose life I desire to save-no more than
one of his servants. But if the house is
doomed, I may be t~ble to save a few valua-
bles; and since there is nobody else to do it,
I feel it right to go in."
"I feel it right to tell you that there's
risk in it."
"Scarcely just yet, I think."
He glanced up at the root' which was al-
ready beginning to blaze in several places-
shrugged his shoulders again-smashed a
window, climbed in, and opened a door for
her. Together they entered the house, and
soon found their way to the upper regions.
While Kennon went to wake his cousin, Alice
roused the startled servants, who 'scarcely
waited to throw on their clothes before they
fled in wild alarm.
Then suddenly, as if by magic, the grounds
became thronged with people, the engines of
the fire-company came up at a gallop, and be-
gan to play upon the roof, adventurous spirits
thronged the house, tossing the costly furni-
ture recklessly out of the windows and injur-
ing far more than they saved. Other~ again,
came in to pilfer, the flames rushed steadily
on, the people talked, the engines played, the
flowers stared at the light of the great con-
flagration, or withered away beneath its
fierce heat-a sce4e of wild pandemonium
replaced the odorous quiet of the summer
night.
In the midst of this, Devereux came has-
tily up to Kennon, who stood on the outskirts
of the crowd, talking to Rose Inglesby. It

struck them both, as he approached, that he
looked singularly pale and agitated, even for
a man whose house was burning down.
"Kennon," he said, hastily, "do you
know where Mrs. Inglesby is? Have you
heard-have you seen her anywhere ? ~'
"Mrs. Inglesby!" Kennon repeated, start.
ing, and growing so pale that the pallor of the
other face was, by contrast, insignificant and
natural. "My God-no! Is she missing?"
"I can't find her,'~~the other answered,.
"and one of the servants says something
about seeing her in the library. But she
can't have been so foolish-so mad-as to
stay there until now. Perhaps she has ~one
home.-Miss Inglesby, do you know?"
"I am sure she has not gone home, Mr.
Devereux," Rose answered, trembling with a.
sudden, vague fear.
The two men looked at each other. In.
all their lives neither of them ever forgot
that horrible, sickening moment.
"Did you leave her in the house?" Deve.
reux sharply asked.
"I left her for you to bring out," Kennon
as sharply answered.
It was easy, then, to see how the thing
occurred. Devereux had not heard of her'
presence in the house when he hastily left
it, Kennon had quitted it even before that,
thinking Alice safe under the guardianship.
of the man she had been so eager to save.
She, on her part, had lingered in the library'
until escape was cut off by the flames.
"What are we to do?" Devereux asked,.
in the midst of the awful, hushed panic which
seized them.
"You may do what you like," said Ken-~
non, fiercely. "lam going after her."
He turned quickly toward~ the house, but
Rose caught his arm. At that moment she
forgot evety thing-her sister-in-law, Deve.
.reux, maidenly reserve, every thing but the
fear that he would rush madly into danger.
"0 Mr Kennon," she cried, "don't-
don't be rash! Perhaps Alice Ass gone'
home!"
Kennonanswered nothing; he only brushed.
her aside as if she had beex~ a butterfly, and
went on his way.
Of what' ensued he had never more than a.
vague remembrance. He recollected mount-
ing a fireman's ladder to the library.window'
-that same window at which Alice had stood.
a few nights before, thinking of him-aixi

I


140               MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.                                                 MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.              141

climbing into the room already full of dense,
black smoke. But all this was. singularly
confused; nothing was clear, until he found
himself kneeling over a half-suffocated and
unconscious woman on the sward below.
Even in her unconsciousness, however, she
did not relax her clasp of a small picture
which she held.
Strangely enough, it was the engraving
which had hung over Devereux's writing-
table.
How brightly and joyously the next morn-
ing broke over the blackened ruin of the once
stately Devereux House! How gayly the birds
sang among the roses, how softly the shadows
flickered over the green turf! How little any
thing in Nature seemed to reck of the destruc-
tion which had been wrought between the set-
ting and rising of the sun!
"And it would be all the same if it had
been a human life instead of a house!"
thought Alice Inglesby, as she rose and stood
at the same window where she had been
standing when the flames broke forth the
night before. Her attack of unconsciousness
had been very slight-for she was not a
woman prone to fainting-fits-and, thanks to
a superb constitution, had left no ill effects
beyond a little languor and paleness. There
might have been more, however, if she had
not been "kept up" just then by the ficti-
tious strength of excitement. During her
vigil of the dawn, she had taken a resolve
which had been lacking in her vigil of the
night. Somehow, light had come to her, as
well as to the world. Things which had been
conflicting before, seemed thoroughly harmo-
nious now. Standing there in the bright sun-
light, her future life showed itself in a new
aspect. Every thing within her was so
changed, that the whole outside world seemed
changed also. Should she ever forget the
look in Kennon's eyes, when she opened her
own on his face, there on the turf last night?
it had gone straighter to her heart than if he
h~~leaded with all the passionate eloquence
that 4ver stirred a human tongue. And here
let it be said that, being a woman of sense,
and not a sentimental fool of any age (for
sentimental folly is not limited to sixteen),
she did not for a moment think of attaching
the least importance to the mere fact of his
having, in romantic parlance, "saved her
life." She knew perfectly well that he would

have done the same good office quite as will-
ingly for the cook or the chambermaid. It
was that look in his eyes which haunted her
-which seemed to beckon her on to the per-
petration of the rankest act of folly ever per.
petrated by a "woman of the world."
Then the thought of Rose and of Harry-
the two strangely mingled-came back to her
as they had come the night before. She
seemed to see the fair, rose-bud beauty of the
girl, and to feel the same pang of absolutely
painful pity which she had felt the night be-
fore, when she saw her falling into the toils
of the adventurer, who avowedly wooed her
only for her fortune. Yet the night before
she had steeled her heart and said, "Where
is the remedy?" Now she seemed to see the
remedy.
"My lif~ does not matter," she said aloud.
"I have only myself to consider; and, there-
fore, why should I consider at all? Nobody
can be injured or aggrieved if I throw myself
away; while Rose-ah! it is different with
her. She has a mother's heart to be broken.
Poor~ foolish child! she has even a heart of
her own to suffer !-and how it would suffer
when she learned the truth! How little she
will thank me for such consideration," she
added, with a short laugh; "and yet-if she
only knew it-how infinitesimal is the heart-
ache or two she will suffer now, to the ocean
of anguish I will spare her! Am I mad, I
wonder?" she went on, walking to the mir-
ror and looking at herself. "I should cer-
tainly have said so yesterday. But to-day I
feel inclined to act before sanity comes
back."
Mrs. Inglesby, senior, who, like all the
rest of the household, felt singularly restless
and unsettled after the night of adventure,
had wandereQinto the garden, and was blank.
ly surveying the smoking ruins which marked
the place where the house had so lately stood,
when, to her amazement, Alice advanced from
one of the dining-room windows toward her.
"My dear, you up?" she cried, aghast.
"Thanks, yes, I have quite recovered,"
Alice answered. Then, hastening on to cut
short the remonstrance she felt to be impend-
ing: "I saw you from my window, and I hur-
ried tlown at once, because I thought I could
not find a better opportunity for speaking to
you-in confidence, if you have no objec-
tion."
Of course, h~rs. Inglesby had no objection,

and only a few words were necessary to put
matters on a confidential footing between
them. The mother's heart was too sorely
anxious not to be glad of any counsellor, much
more of any helper; and Alice spoke with the
quiet composure of one certain of her own
power. Before very long, Mrs. Inglesby's
worst anxiety was relieved, and her worst
fears allayed.
"Find some excuse for detaining Rose,
this morning, from her usual walk," said
Alice, "and I will guarantee that Laurence
Kennon shall never trouble her again."
"But-but, my dear, how will you manage
it?" Mrs. Inglesby cried.
"Never mind how I shall manage it," the
other answered. "I promise to accomplish
it-that is all. You will hear the result be.
fore very long," she added, as she turned tow-
ard the ho4se; "and I hope you will be a
little sorry when I say that it will probably
force me to leave you."
"But-Mr. Devereux?" exclaimed the
elder lady, who n~w began to have an inkling
of the truth.
"Rose will console Mr. Devereux, I dare
say," Alice answered, quietly. And then she
walked away.
It would be hard to say how deeply Rose
was chagrined when her mother made an ab-
solute demand for herpresence that morning,
and when she found that, without betraying
a most undue anxiety for her usual walk, she
must submit to remain at home. Prudence,
for once, carried the day. She submitted
with a very bad grace, consoling herself with
the thought that Kennon was again safely
domiciled in Northorpe, and that opportune.
tics for seeing him were many. So, although
it is to be feared that Mrs. Inglesby did not
have a very amiable companion, she still car-
ried her point, and the field was left clear for
Alice.
At the hour when Rose was in the usual
habit of going out, Alice came down-stairs,
and left the house. As she descen~led the
front steps, she met a servant ascending
them with a letter in his hand, and, when he
touched his cap and extended it, she saw that
it was addressed to herself. In a second, her
heart gave a great leap. The writing told her
at ~once that it was from Devereux, and she
must needs have been dull beyond the meas-
ure of ordinary dulness, if she had not at
once divined the nature of its contents. For

a moment she stood still, looking at the en.
velop as it lay in her hand-.thinking, per-
haps, how hard it was to fight against fate.
She had thought to put temptation aside, and
here it met her at the very threshold of her
new determination. She had thought it would
be easier to ignore the rich prize which chance
had thrown into her life than to absolutely
nerve herself to the point of rejecting it; yet
here it was in her hand, and acceptance or
rejection was now a matter of necessity. She
would not have been a woman, if the tempta-
tion had not been great-so great that she
dared not trust herself to consider it, that she
dared not cuter the house to answer that let-
ter while still free to answer it as she chose.
After a minute, she turned to the servant.
"I am just going out," she said. "I can-
not stop to read this now. Tell Mr. Devereux
that I will send an answer as soon as I re-
turn."
The man bowed and departed with this
consolatory message. Turning hastily in
the opposite direction, Alice went her way
toward the square in which Rose usually took
her morning walk, and where she was sure of
meeting Kennon.
When she entered, she strolled up and
down the paths laid out so trimly between
plats of green award; but no sign of Kennon
appeared. Several nurses were sitting round
the fountain that played in the centre of the
square; children were trundling hoops up
and down the walks; one or two men were
resting on shady benches, reading morning
papers; and a pair of school-girls strolled
past, with their heads bent over their French
grammars. For a short time, Alice was puz-
zled by Kennon's absence from the tryst;
but then she remembered that she was early,
and, choosing a walk which was uninvaded,
she sat down on a bench to wait. Waiting
is, at all times, tiresome work; and, being in
a state of excitement, she found it more than
usually tiresome this morning. So tier band
soon found its way to her pocket, and brought
forth Devereux's letter. Having brought it
forth, the next step was to open and read it.
She had read it twice, and her face was still
bent over the page, when a ringing step on
the gravel-path made her look up just as
Kennon's shadow fell over her.
He looked astonished-as, indeed, there
was good reason that he should be.
"I am glad to see you so entirely recov~


142          MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.

ored," he said, stopping before her, but speak-
ing very frigidly. "I feared that the results
of your adventure last night might prove
-very serious."
"It might have proved serious to some
people," she answered. "Fortunately for
me, however, I do not feel a nervous shock
very much, and there was little else in that.
If you had been ten minutes later, though-"
" You might have been beyond recovery,"
said he, coolly finishing her sentence as she
paused. He was on his guard now, and not
even into his eyes flickered any thing more
than the quietest courtesy. .
"It was very horrible," said she, in a low
voice. "I never knew be re what suffoca-
-tion meant ; but the dense moke quite over-
powered me, and I suppose I must have beej
insensible for some time before you came." -
" Why did you go there ?" he asked, ?nX
able to repress his curiosity on that points
" There were some very fine pictures
there," she answered. "I wanted to save
some of them. After all, how ever, I did not
succeed in doing so."
Then there was a pause. Kennon was
still standing before her, but he now made a
-movement as if he would have bowed and
passed on; only just then she looked up and
poke quickly-with the manner of one who
had nerved herself to an effort.
"I believe you have an appointment with
Rose," she said. " She is not here--will not
be here this morning. If you do not object,
however, I should like to say a few words to
you." -
She pointed to a vacant place on the bench
beside her, and, after a slight hesitation, Ken-
non sat down.
"I-confess I do not understand-" he be-
gan; but she interrupted him.
" You do not understand what brought me
here ? That is very likely ; but, if you will
be patient a moment, you shall hear. We
are old friends, and I wish to ask your ad-
vice. Will you read that?"
She held Devereux's letter toward him, i
~and, with increased surprise,.he received it.
He gave a start as soon as he saw the open-
ing words, but he did not raise his eyes and,
as he read it, she watchefl him keenly. He
held his face under tolerably good control,
but she had once known its least weather-
sign, and her eyes were not likely to deceive
tier now. Yet, whern he finished, he looked

up and spoke with more passion and less
bitterness than she had expected.
"Well," said he, "tell me now the mean-
ing of this. You did not use to be cruel for
the mere sake of cruelty, and I am loath to
think that you have learned to find pleasure
in the infliction of pain. Yet your motive
for giving me such a letter puzzles me. Do
you want me to go and cut this man's throat,"
he went on, with ill-restrained vehemence,
"that you show me the words of love with
which he offers you my inheritance ? "
"I told you what I want," she answered.
" I want your advice." .
" My advice ? I can give it to you in two
words-marry him, lie is rich, and he is a
fool-marry him !"
" He is not a fool," she said, with some-
thing like indignation in her voice. " He is a
man of whose love any woman might be proud
-whom any woman might well learn to love.
That letter "-she pointed to it as she spoke
-" has touched me more than I can say.
Only a fine nature and a gentle heart could
have written such words as those."
" Marry him, then !-for Cod's sake, mar-
ry him!"
.She rose from her seat, and took a turn
down the walk---then came back and stood be-
fore him, the flickering shadows falling softly
over her resolute face and earnest eyes. .
"Laurence," she said, " do you remem-
ber yesterday ?-do you remember telling me
that Fate had brought us together once more,
and that we should not throw away our last
hope of happiness ? Is yesterday to-day with
you ? Think for a moment, and then tell me
-can you say that now ?"n'
In a moment he understood her, and he,
too, rose to his feet. They faced each other
steadily in the golden sunlight before he
pointed to Devereux's letter.
" I say it now as I said it then," he an-
swered. "But, with this before me, I am
constrained to add-don't let me stand in
your way. There is the path to fortune--
take it now, as you took it before."
" You are unjust !" she cried, passionate-
ly. "It was no path to fortune that I took
before. And if I take it now it will only be
because by such words as these you prove to
me that Rose Inglesby's heiress-ship is more
to you than I am."
Her shaft struck home. Adventurer
though he was, Kennon had still enough of

142

At this point our story ends. At this
point the sister-in-law, who had entered Miss
Inglesby's life, and changed its whole current
and meaning, went out of it again, and left--
for a brief space, at least--not a little of deso-
lation behind her. Of course, Rose was too
proud to showghow, deeply and sharply the
blow had struck ; but, despite her bravery,
she suffered many a sharp pang, and knew
many a dreary moment, before it even slightly
healed. Can we wonder at this ? The girl
had not given her heart unasked, as some
girls do, and therefore she had not incurred
the legitimate penalty of folly. She had
merely suffered it to be won; she had merely
fallen into a snare which might have en-
trapped an older and wiser woman ; and, in-
stead of waking slowly, and with a sickening
consciousness of " too late " to this knowl-
edge, it was forced on her by one sharp
stroke.~ It may be said that she had cause)
for gratitude in learning the truth so soon.

T rlE E N D.

MISS INGLESBY'S SISTER-IN-LAW.             14

honor and sincerity left to feel it. A dark-red
flush surged over his face, and, stepping for-
ward a few feet, he caught her hands,.
" Tell me what you mean ?" he demande,
almost roughly. "I am .dull at reading r'id-
dles, and this has grown beyond my comn-
prehension. Why have you come here ?-
why have you showed me that letter ?-why
do you speak to me like this ? You know
that Rose Inglesby is nothing to me; and
that you--are every thing. Do you mean
that you are willing to give up him for me?/"
lie pointed once more to the letter-now
lying on the ground at his feet--and Alice's
gaze followed the gesture half sadly. Stoop-.
ing, as if by a sudden impulse, she lifted the
open sheet of paper, gently folded it, and laid
it aside on the bench. Then she turned back
to Kennon, and held out her hand.
-," Just that way I put him out of my life,"
she said. "If' you wish to take me, here I
am."

'148

No doubt she had, and no doubt she felt this
before very long; but at first--well, suffering
is apt to make even the wisest unreasonable,
and it was not strange that at first she only
felt the sore bitterness of affection wasted
and trust betrayed. She was very young,
however; and the young rally quickly from
even the deepest blows. After a while, her
parents took her abroad, and then Alice's
prophecy came true. While travelling they
met Devereux, who-whether to solace his
disappointment, or to improve his mind--had
also left Northorpe. Rose thought that he
improved on acquaintance very decidedly ;
and, when she returned to America, he ac-
companied her. The latest news from Nor-
thorpe leaves no doubt but that they will
soon be married.
And Alice ? Well-Alice is not unhappy.
In the first place, she is married to a man
whom she loves, and, in the second place, she
is married to a man who loves her. These
two facts would enable her to bear much, if
she had much to bear, which, in truth, has
not been the case. Men of Kennon's stamp
do not reform suddenly ; but there is at least
reasonable ground for hoping that with him
the worst is over, and that he will never fling
himself quite as recklessly against public
opinion in the future as in the past. Let
what will come, however, his wife has girded
up herself to bear it; and, if gentleness, and
courage, and devotion, can save him, he may
yet be saved. With all the troubles that
have encompassed her, it is not probable that
Mrs. Kennon has ever regretted her choice.
From the first she realized how inadequate
Rose's strength would have proved for the
burden laid on her; how terrible on both
sides would have been the marriage which her
intervention alone prevented. Feeling this,
she is recompensed ; but it is doubtful wheth-
er Miss Inglesby ever has known, or ever
will know, all that she owes to her sister-in-
aw.


I T was a very pleasant group that was as-
sembled ia the drawing-room of Colonel
Dulaney's country-house, as the dusk was
dying away over the wintry hills, and the
short December day drew rapidly to a close
-a very sociable group, too, although it was
composed entirely of ladies. They had shortly
before come up from dinner, leaving the gen-
tlemen to the enjoyment of their olives and
wine, and, finding twilight in possession of
the room, had unanimously agreed in think-
ing that it would be a pity to disturb it by
the invasion of lamps. So the only light in
the apartment was that given forth by a
large wood-fire, which illuminated every thing
in its immediate neighborhood, while shadows
gathered deeply in all the corners, and the
silvery moonlight traced pale outlines on the
carpet at the other end of the long room.
There is nothing prettier than this soft min-
gling of twilight and firelight, and the four
ladies grouped around the hearth-rug made a
charming picture as the red radiance flick-
ered over them-shining on the rich silks
which two of them wore, and flashing back
from the bright eyes of the other pair, who
were dressed simply, as became their youth,
yet elegantly, as became their station.
The first of the silken-attired ladies was
lying indolently back in a deep chair, while
one of her slender hands held a fire-screen of
Oriental device before a very fair and high-
bred face-a face over which thirty-five sum-
mers had passed so lightly as to leave only
added beauty behind them. This was Mrs.
Dulaney, the most charming and popular
hostess of all the gay and hospitable country-
side; and whoso caught one gleam of her
frank blue eyes, never marvelled even once
10

concerning either the charm or the popu-
larity.
Next to her a bonny brown-haired, brown-
eyed girl was nestling on an ottoman, with
her tinted face half shaded by the sweeping
draperies of her hostess-a dainty, petite
creature, dressed in a soft blue fabric, the
Vandyck corsage of which showed the whitest
neck in the world, and a diamond pendant
that glittered in the firelight. It was a
proverb with her friends that Ethel Lamar
wasnever silent for five minutes; but more
than five minutes had elapsed since her last
remark, and still the little lady sat quiet-
her bright brown eyes fastened on the glow-
ing 4~oals as intently as if she were reading her
fortune there.
In the corner of a sofa not far distant sat
a lady who was dressed in black silk, so
heavy and stiff that it rustled like armor
whenever she moved-a lady whose face, in
repose, was somewhat plain, somewhat severe,
and marked by the lines of at least fifty years,
but whose smile, when it came, was so cheery
and good-humored that it left nothing to be
desired either in appearance or expression.
She was the only one of the quartet who
was busy with any occupation, but her nimble
fingers were knitting soft, white wool; and,
as the firelight glanced back from her pol-
ished needles, it also gleamed over her firm
hands, across one of which there ran a deep-
red scar, exactly like a sabre-stroke.
On the other end of the same sofa, in an
attitude of supreme comfort, a stately, rich-
hued brunette was reclining, with her feet
doubled up in some inscrutable girl-fashion,
and her dress sweeping the floor like a royal
train. Do what she would, Alice Palmer al-

'I

II

till

THE STORY OF A SOAR.


146TH               E    STORY OF A SCAR.                                                        THE STORY OF A SCAR.                   147

ways looked queenly and imposing, and peo. by all means, Mrs. Stuart. I am sure it is
pie who did not know her felt a sort of awe worth hearing, and I am also sure that these
of her on this account-an awe absurdly mis- young ladies are sadly ia need of missionary
placed, since she was in reality as simple and labors."
unaffected as a child. Of the four ladies, she "Alice, can't you say a word in our de.
was the only one who was not gazing into the fence?" asked Miss Lamar, peeping over the
fire; her eyes, as it chanced, were turned on arm of the sofa with her glowing face.
her companion's hands, and her voice was the "Alice has some conscience," said Mrs.
first to break the stillness which had settled Stuart, shortly. "I should like to hear her
over them all. say a word in her defence when she remembers
" Mrs. Stuart I "-she spoke so abruptly what I overheard in the conservatory this
that the lady who was knitting started at the morning. That poor Colonel Fairfax I-Well,
unexpected sound of her own name-" Mrs. if men will be fools, I suppose women have a
Stuart, may I ask you an impertinent ques- right to amuse themselves with their folly-
tion?" only take care, my dears, that amusement
Mrs. Stuart gave one quick glance out of does not r.un into harm."
her clear hazel eyes, while the smile that "Row could it?" saked both girls, a little
came over her face showed that the speaker curiously.
was a favorite with her.                    "I'll tell you how," answered Mrs. Stuart,
"You may ask me a question if you like, briefly.
my dear," she said, "but I shall reserve the Then she braced her shoulders back like a
right tQ ftn5Wer it, on account of Its Imperti- veteran general, gave her needles a Click to-
nence." gather, and began her story.
"Yes," said Miss Palmer, with a smile. "Thirty years ago, my dears, I was young
"Well, then, will you please tell us how that and handsome. The latter fact seems a little
singular scar came on. your hand? I have strange to you, nodoubt; but it was a fact,
wanted to ask you often, only I did not like nevertheless, and I can speak of it now with-
to do so. Bat, If you would not mind telling, out vanity. I was a good deal admired, too,
Ethel and I are desperately curious." for, besides being young and handsome, I was
Mrs. Stuart looked at Ethel, who blushed; an heiress-and wealth will bring a woman
'thea diwn at herhand, whiebsecined to blush admirers quite independently of her looks, as
also, as t~ie red firelight flickered over it; then you are all, no doubt, aware. My father was
'up at the dark eyes fixed on her with a half- a widower, and very fond of me, as I was his
laughing appeal. only child; so I did pretty much what I
"I have no objection to telling you, my pleased, and, its it chanced, I 'pleased' to
dear," she said. "Indeed, there Is a toler. flirt a great deal. I 'liked, admiration just as
able moral attached, that might do good to you like it now, my dears, axid I was quite as
young ladies who are fond bf flirting" (it was fond of leading my admirers into absurdities,
nOw Miss Palmer's turn to blush); "but it is and then laughing at them as they stumbled
rather a long story."                    out, as you seem to be. I firmly believed that
".A. long story I" cried Ethel Lamar. men were the legitimate prey of pretty women;
"Oh, then, dear Mrs. Stuart, it is the very and I. felt no more compassion for them than
thing w~e want~ for you know it will be an age a cat may be supposed to feel for the mouse
till the gentlemen come up, and this is the she torments. People-kind, good-natured
time of all others for story-telling. Please do people-called me' a heartless coquette,' and
tell us, if you don't mind." a few of my relations and friends even went
"So you think you 'nead the moral, too, so far as to remonstrate With me on ray con-
gielkin ?" duct; but I put their remonstrances scornful-
"I am-sure she does," said Mrs. Dulaney, ly aside, laughed, went my ii~ay,' and played
with a smilc-.9Ah, my little lady; that is a my fascinating game over and over again-.
very fine look of reproach, but do you think each time 'with fresh zest. Yet I should do
I was deaf all through dinner, and I did not myself injustice if I allowed youto think that
hear poor Chancy-so 'you know what I I was in truth entirely heartless, for there was
mean?" she broke off, with a laugh, as Miss one person with whom I never flirted, whom I
Lamar flushed crimson..-" Give us the story sincerely loved, and honestly meant to marry

~....after I had finished amusing myself. This
was my cousin, Harry Wilmot. I had known
him all my life, and loved him all my life;
and, although he often expostulated with me
about my coquetry, ~ bore with him in quite
an exemplary manner--.at least I thought so'
then. Now I think that it was lie who bore
with me, and that very patiently. I was en-
gaged to him in a sort of tacit fashion that
had never been publicly acknowledged, and
did not bind me in the least. Nothing had
ever been said about marriage, yet I certainly
meant to marry him, and I am sure that no-
body ever was more devoted to another than
he-poor fellow I-was to me.
"Well, things had been going on in this
way for some time, and Harry had to find
what consolation he could in the number of
my admirers, when a new family moved into
our neighborhood, and, being people of evi-
dent wealth and culture, were receii~ed with
open arms-~-more especially since they proved
to be hospitable and charming in extreme
measure. Their house was always open, and
one elegant entertainment was scarcely over
before another was on the tap~e. This fact
alone insured their popularity. The neighbor-
hood, having been very stagnant before this
new life flowed into it,. was by no means dis.
posed to be severely critical with regard to
the pleasant sources of this life. One and all,
we adopted the Clavenings, and the Claverings
in turn amused us. We had never been
amused before, and our gratitude was extreme.
The C~laverings, en masse, soon became the
county toast. I say en masse, yet the family
was in truth rather small, consisting only of
its respective heads, two handsome daughters,
and (as report soon told us) a son absent in
Europe. The eldest of these daughter's, Isabel
Clavering, was soon my intimate friend, as
young ladies reckon friendship, and, as she
was even more giddy and reckless than I, she
speedily led me into more mischief than I had
previously found for myself. Soon sober peo-
plc began to be scandalized at our proceedings.
In fact, they were what in these days would
be called 'outrageously fast.' My dear, good
father, in whose partial eyes I could do no
wrong, said little or nothing; but Harry de.
cidedly disapproved of Miss Clavering, and
unhesitatingly signified as much. Our 'first
serious disagreement was on this score. He
begged me to give up a friend who did tue
only injury, and I indignantly refused. She

was my friend, I replied, in that spirited man-
ner which young ladies so much admire, and I
should not resign her, let people say or do
their worst. Harry urged the point no further,
but from that day a barrier of coldness rose
between us.
"Of course, you can all guess what came
next. The son and heir of the Clavering
house..-.-Edward was hi~ name-eame back
from Europe, bringing a friend with him, and
Woodlawn (the name of the Clavening villa)
became more than ever the headquarters of
gayety and dissipation. I profited in an es-
pecial manner by this, for the grounds of our
respective residences immediately adjoined,
and, when our friendship grew so warm that
we were obliged to see each other every
day, We found that a short cut through the
shrubberies was pleasanter and more conven-
ient than s~ long ride or dnivO round by the
road, so a gate was cut in the wall dividing
oiki~ domain, and of this gate each household
kept a key. These keys were in frequent de-
mand, for matters had how reached such a
pass that, whenever I was not with the~Clav-
cringe, some one or other of the Claverings
was with me.
"As you may readily, imagine, the two
young men made the already attractive house
ten times more attractive. They were both
handsome, and both singularly fascinating-
especially- Edward Clavering, whose face I
see as clearly now as I over saw it' in reality
thirty years ago. It was a face of the type
which I have always liked best-..-.regular fea..
tures, pale complexion, silken~brown hairs
beautiful, soft, violet eyea~ and the moSt per-
fect mouth I ever saw out of marble. In
figure he Was slight and graceful, with en-
quisite hands and feet. His fniend--.Ridge-
icy, by name-.-was also exceedingly hand..
some, and. second only to 'Clavening himself
in versatile talentS and accomplishments,
while they were both fall of that je we eais
quoi of travelled nature which is sopeculiarly
attractive to untravelled 'natures. "Don't
think" (here Mrs. Stuart glanced round the
listening trio, and shook her head very stern-
ly) "that I am painting them in these bright
colors to excuse the story which is to- fol-
low. Not a bit of it. If I met two such
chevaliers now, I should be able to tell 'that
there Was something a little' bisarre~-~a~slight
flavor, as it were, of Bohemianism-in their
style, which might jar on conventional ideas,


148

THE STORY OF A SCAR.

and plant a vague distrust in the convention.
al mind. But at that time I was in the full
noonday of the sublime scorn of convention.
alities, with which every clever young person
begins the world; so the freshness which
these strangers brought into my life was all
the more acceptable because it had just that
slight flavor of Bohemia.
"Perhaps" (smiling a little) "you have
some curiosity to know which of the two I
flirted with. For the matter of that, I tried
my hand on both, though Clavering was the
one I liked best. Certainly he was a charm-
ing companion, and his flattery-of course, it
was flattery, though I did not think so then-
might well have turned the head of an older
and a wiser woman. To say, in the language
of the present day, that he was 'devoted to
me,' is to say very little indeed. He tried
every art in his power-and those arts' were
many-to make me fall in love with him. I
did not exactly do that, but I liked him
thoroughly, and am ashamed to say that I
encouraged him to the top of his bent. Harry
stood it all with tolerable quietness for a
while-I think he wanted to see how far I
would go, if left entirely to myself-but after
a time even his patience gave way. I re-
member perfectly the day on which we finally
arrived at an open rupture. He came in one
morning, and, as usual, found Edward Claver-
ing with me. Instead of paying a short visit,
and then taking leave as he usually did, in a
ease of this kind, he established himself with
a book in a corner of the drawing-room, and
waited until Clavering was, in a measure,
forced to take ki~ departure very much in ad-
vance of his ordinarytime for doing so. Af-
ter he had bowed himself out, 1, who was
much provoked at losing another hour of ten-
der and gallant compliments, vouchsafed not
a word to Harry, but went to the piano, and,
sitting down, began to play. My cousin read
his volume of Bacon's Essays with exemplary
patience through half an hour of musical
m~&amp;znge remarkable only for its noise, and it
was only when I rose at last, and closed the
piano with a perceptible bang, that he rose,
too, and came forward.
"' If you have no other engagement just
now, Rachel,' he said, quietly, 'I should like
to speak to you.'
'"I am at your service,' said I, 'though
it seems to me that you might have spo-
ken tome any time within the last two hours.'

"'Might I!" he said~ 'VITeII, it seems to
me that you were occupied with Clavering un-
til he left, and that you have been occupied
with the piano ever since. However, I was
determined to remain until you were at lei-
sure to give me a little of your time, because
I want to place a plain alternative before you,
and ask you a long-deferred and decisive
question.'
"'With or without my permission, I pre-
sume!' said I, with an emphasis which was
meant to be very sarcastic.
"'Yes,' answered he, gravely, 'with or
without your permission-though I scarcely
think you will withhold it from me.'
"'And pray why not?' demanded I,
haughtily.
"'Because it is to your interest as well as
mine that the issue should be met and settled,'
answered he, looking pale but determined.
'Rachel, you must know as well as I that
matters cannot go on like this. I have bovnc
a great deal from you, through my great love
for you, but I cannot bear to be treated as a
toy which you contemptuously fling aside, or
more contemptuously take up at your pleas.
nrc. I recognize this at last, and I recognize,
also, that you must choose between me and
these new associates who have estranged you
from me.'
"'Estranged me from you, indeed!' said
I, with disdain. 'You are mistaken. It is
your own senseless jealousy that has es-
tranged us-if we arc estranged. We have
'spoken on this subject before,' continued I,
loftily, 'and I must beg you to understand
that now, as heretofore, I decline to submit to
dictation in regard to my friends or associ-
ates.'
"'Then,' said soy cousin, 'you force me
to place before you the alternative of which I
have spoken. I do not think there is any
need for me to tell you how truly and how
faithfully I have loved you for many years.
You know it. Yet the time has come when
you must choose between the acquaintances
of yesterday and the friend of your youth.
Rachel, you must give up the Claverings, or
you must give up me. My cousin-my dear
cousin-which will you take? You can no
longer have both.'
"For a moment this determined attitude
of my vassal petrified me; but I had some-
thing of a temper, and, if my memory serves
me right, I stamped my foot, and blazed

I

THE STORY OF A SCAR.

out lilie a tornado at my long-suffering cous.
'in.
"'Are you trying to insult me, Mr. Wi!-
mot, that you dare to come and talk to me
like this !-that you dare to put such an al-
ternative before me! Am I to give up my
friends at the mere bidding of your caprice?
Pray, tell me' (with a withering sneer), 'what
penalty shall I incur if I decline to take ad-
vantage of the choice which you are kind
enough to offer me?'
"'You will send away from you, perhaps
forever, a friend who would do any thing to
'serve you, Rachel. Is that a little?'
"' I am young, and pretty, and rich,'
said I, scornfully. 'I shall find plenty of
other friends.'
"'If you think t1~~zt,' said he, a little
hoarsely, 'if you can take such a tone as
that to one/who has loved you as long and as
well as I have done, it is time indeed to go.
But, 0 Rachel, Rachel! have you never
loved me-do you not love me-even in the
least degree, that you can throw me off like
a worn glove?'
"'I should like you very well if you would
only let me alone,' said I, in the tone of one
from whom a reluctant concession is wrung.
'But you do worry so, Harry) and you have
taken such an unaccountable dislike to these
delightful Olaverings.'
"'Some day you will be able to account
for the dislike easily enough,' said he, gloom.
ily. 'But it may be too late then. Rachel,
for God's sake, be warned !-for God's sake,
drop those people! They are not fit ass6ci-
ates for you.'
"' I won't hear another word!' cried I,
stopping my ears. 'I won't listen while my
friends are abused and slandered.'
"'Rachel,' said my cousin, growing mo-
inently paler and more earnest, 'would you
like to know the character of the man who
has just left you?'
"'Not from your lips,' answered I, angrily.
'I don't trust a word that you say of him.'
"'He is an unprincipled adventurer,'
Harry went on, steadily, 'he is indeed noth-
ing more nor less than a professional gambler.
can prove this.'
"'How, pray?'
"'By the testimony of people who have
seen and known him at other places.'
"' I don't believe one word of it!' I said,
stamping my foot again.

149

"'You accuse me of falsehood, then?'
"'No-but I accuse you of listening 'to
his enemies, and of being blinded by jealousy.
If it is true, why don't you expose him?'
"'Would you give him up if I did?' (this
very eagerly).
"'Never!' answered I, grandly. 'I cling
to my friends all the more when they arc
slandered and persecuted.'
"'Then you see why I don't expose the
scoundrel. Can I have the whole county talk.
ing of your flirtation-God knows they might
even call it your love-affair !-with a profess.
signal gambler, and cke~xdier d'industrie? I
am not thinking of nor pleading for myself,
Rachel, when I pray you to break off all con-
nection with such a man.'
"'I am not to be dictated to,' said I,
drawing back the hands which he attempted
to take, 'and I positively decline to surrender
a pleasant friend because you see fit to make
vague accusations against him.'
"'I shall see if your father thinks them
vague,' said he.
"'Do I' answered I, scornfully. 'The ro7e
of tale-bearer suits you so admirably that you
must allow me ~o congratulate you on your
new mWer, and ~o wish you good-morning!'
" With that Icourtesied grandly, and swept
'out of the room, leaving Harry still standing
on the floor. A few minutes later, however,
T had the satisfaction of hearing him gallop
from the front-door, and I knew that he was
gone-never to come back again, as he had
done for so many happy years. Was Edward
Clavering (whom I had not by any means
made up my mind to marry) worth quite such
a sacrifice as this? 'Even with all my ruffled
pride to help me, I was not quite able to an-
swer that question in the affirmative.
"I managed, however, to console myself
very well with Edward Clavering. In the
week which followed Harry's unusual a~er-
tion of himself~, and consequent departure
from the scene of action, I was more than
ever at Woodlawn (for he did not fulfil his
threat of speaking to papa; partly, as I
learned afterward, because he was busy col-
lecting tangible proof of Clavering's antece-
dents), and my wilful feet went 'didly nearer
and nearer the verge of that fateful precipice
of love, down which many women tumble
headlong into misery.
"To let you understand exactly how near I
was to it, Imust tell you that, on~ cert~ln lovely
L


150                       TUE STOW
Indian summer afternoon, when Clavering an
I were out riding, he formally addressed m
-having seen, no doubt, that he might ~af
ly venture to do so. Now, of course I don'
need to tell you that it is not every man wh~
knows how to make a declaration, which, ci
itself, will go half-way toward winning a woni
an's heart; iz~ fact, the art of doing so i
more rare than any other with which I am ac
qualuted. Clavering's proposal was simpl~
perfect-passionate, graceful, chivalrous, al
and more than al~ that the most sensitive
fancy could have demanded, or the most sensi
tive tastesanctioned. If men would only com
prehend that a woman's fancy cats be shocked
and a woman's taste outraged, byiauc1~erie or
such occasions, I am inclined to think tha
there might be fewer untoward wooings. Wh~
I did not accept my suitor on the spot, I don'i
know, unless it was that my cousin's warning
had, after all, left an impression on my mind
and inspired me with a vague distrust of thu
accomplished gentleman, which made mc
hesitate when it came to the actual point of
putting all my future life into his 'hands. At
all events, I did hesitate-.-I paused-wavered
-finally asked for time to consider his offer.
He yielded very gracefully to this request,
and, having listened with tacit favor to his
suit, I was pledged to give an early and de-
cisive answer.
"The next day was stormy, and I did not
go to Woodlawn.-.. neither did any of the
Claverings come to me. It was a day of such
fierce rain and tempest as belongs only to the
autumn, and, since I was entirely alone, I did
t pass a very cheerful time. My father was
) ~tiiattime a judge on the bench of the Sm.
preme Court of the State, but he did legal
business for his friends occasionally, and it
chanced that he had been summoned, early
that morning, to make the will of a dying
man-~-t very i~gimate associatewho lived a
few miles distant. .&amp;s the day advanced, I
saw clearly that he could not return before
nightfall-nor after it either, for that matter~
The streams intervening between us would
be too high for him to cross, I felt sure, and,
if the rain continued, he might be water.
bound f'or several daye~ I knew he would
dislike this exceedingly, for he never left me
alone when he could possibly avoidit, and on
the present occasion he would be particularly
loath to do so, since there chanced at that
time to be a deposit of unusual value in the

L7 OF A SOAR.

d house. Not long before, a very wealthy and
o eccentric old lady of the neighborhood had
died, and left my father executor of a will in
t which she bequeathed all her property, and
n especially all her jewels (for, by a singular
freak, she had invested to the amount of half
her fortune in precious stones), to him, to be
s held in trust for the heir or heirs of a long-
lost (and everybody said long - dead) son.
v These jewels my father had for some time
1 kept in his own possession, meaning to take
~ them to a city, the first time he went, and
- lodge them in a bank. You may think that
- it was very imprudent to have kept jewels to
the amount of a hundred thousand dollars in
an ordinary country-house for any length of
time; but, in those days, and in quiet country
regions, robbery was almost Wholly unknown,
and I have visited many houses where neither
the plate-closet nor the jewel-box was consid-
ered worth the trouble of a lock. If these
jewels had been his own, my father would
have felt no anxiety about them; but, be-
cause they had been placed in his hands as a~
trust, he had been a little nervous, and wished
* t~ put them in safer keeping than his own.
This had been deferred from time to time,
however; and now, on this stormy Novem-
ber evening, he was on one side of a swollen
stream, 'and I on the other, with the jewels of
old Mrs. Hardie in my sole guardianship.
"I confess, however, that the thought of
the jewels did not disquiet me very much. I
only thought how lonely and ennuyie I was.
So I wrote a note, begging Isabel Clavering
to come and stay with me, giving the jewels
as an excuse why I could not leave the house
entirely unprotected. The note was answered,
not by Isabel, but by Edward. He had come
to bring hi5 sister's regrets-she was quite
unwell, and~ could not venture6 through the
rain; but could not I be prevailed upon to
come over and 'stay with her? This proposal
was only too tempting to me, but I could not
reconcile it to my conscience to leave the
jewels; so I told Edward that I could not
go. He urged me to do so-urged me strong-
ly and repeatedly-but I could be very obsti-
nate when I chose, so I resolutely declined;
and at last, as night was closing and the
storm increasing, he wae obliged to leave
without me~ Reluctantly enough, he bade
me good-evening, and started to leave the
room, when suddenly he stopped, turned, and
came back to where I sat by the fire.

I

THE STORY

I
"'Rachel,' he said, in a low, passionate
voice, 'when am I to have my answer?'
"Now, this question provoked rue. I was
by no means a lovesick maiden, in whose
eyes my lover could do no wrong, but a sensi-
tive, fastidious woman, whose fancy was only
too easily repelled by the slightest solecism
of taste or chivalry. The circumstances of
time and place branded the question as a pro-
gumption in my opinion, and I answered it
haughtily and indifferently:
"' If you choose to wait for my answer,
Mr. Clavering, you can have it when I have
made up my mind; if not, you caW take it
now.'
"'And suppose I take it now?' said he,
a little hoarsely.
"I looked up into his eyes, with a flash,
I am sure, in my own. They were steadfast,
determined, and anxious to a degree that
startled me. His face, too, was pale and set,
I thought, as the changeful firelight fi,~ckered
over it. Still, I was angry-it seemed as if
he took advantage of my loneliness to press
his point in this manner.
"'If you take your answer now,' said I,
coldly, 'you may not find it very much to
your taste. It is, unequivocally, No!'
"'Rachel!'
"The tone in which he uttered this excla-
mation startled me even more than his eyes
had done. It was violent; it was almost
menacing; and for the first time I realized
how late it had become, 'and how entirely
alone I was. I rose to my feet and looked-
or endeavored to look - like a tragedy
queen.
"'Have you forgotten yourself, Mr. Clay-
ering, or have you forgotten who I am, that
you venture to address me in such a manner
as this?'
"'No,' answered he, trying evidently to
collect himself. 'I remember both perfectly.
You have answered my presumption very
well, Miss Huntingdon, and I accept your
decision. It woutd be ungentlemanly, I pre-
sume, to hint that you may ever regret it.
With my best wishes for your future hap-
piness, I have the honor to bid you good-
evening.'
"He bowed here, and, without offering to
touch my hand, left the room. The next
moment I saw him cross the veranda, and
take the dripping path which led through the
shrubberies to the gate communicating with,

01' A SOAR.                       151
the Clavering domain, of which I have a!-
ready spoken.
"~rhen I sat dowu-.--i confess a little
stunned by this brief and most unexpected
scene. What had so suddenly transformed
the most gallant and tender of suitors I could
not imagine, and' my amazement was so great
that for a time it certainly subordinated every
other feeling. I had no doubt of my own
power to lure him back if I wanted him-an
important if already in my reflections-but
what could possibly have changed him so
completely in so short a time? Had he only
been playing a part, and now, for some un-
known reason, had it become worth his while
to throw off the mask? Try as I would, I
could find no clew to the enigma which satis-
fied me, and at last I started from my thoughts
to find the room quite dark, and the fire gone
down to a bed of ashes and coals.
"It is not a cheerful thing to be alone in
an isolated country-house at six r. M. on a
rainy November evening. I shivered, and
iang the bell for lights. 'Make up the ire,
John,' I said to the servant who brought
them, 'and you must sleep in the dining-'
room to-night. Papa cannot get back, I am
sure.' Having given this order, I felt some-
what relieved, for John was large enough and
had pluck enough to be a match for any or-
dinary burglar. Of course, he did not fancy
~exchanging his usual comfortable quarters for
a shake-down in the dining-room, but he said,
'Yes'ni,' with a due amount of respect, and
then retired, leaving ni  to face the evening
as best I could.
"I faced it very badly. Those anxious
eyes of Edward Clavering's gazed at me from
every page I attempted to read, anI that
white, set face of his, seemed to lurk in the
shadows that gathered about the corners of
the room. I was heartily glad when nine
o'clock struck, and Iwas free to go to bed
without feeling ashamed of myself for keep-
ing 'poultry-hours.' I rang for my maid, and
astonished her by saying that I would sleep
in papa's room, ajid that ~he might bring my
toilet apparatus down to that apartment,
which was on the ground-floor. I must do
myself the justice to say that some vaguely.
heroic idea of protecting the jewels was in
my head, though I scarcely think it would
have availed to make me change my domicile,
if a very clear and unheroic idea of being
protected by John-the dining-room was just


OF A SCAR.

if:            152                       TilE STORY
across the hall from papa's room-bad not
aided and abetted it.
"Now you must understand that, in the
original plan of the house, papa's room had
been meant for a smoking-den, but he pre-
ferred a chamber on the ground-floor, and so
had chosen this apartment, for which he said
there was 'no rational use.' It had two doors,
one opening on the hail, the other on a side-
piazza, from which a path led 'stableward.
Both of these doors had locks; and the ease
with which any ordinary lock gives way at
the ยฃ open-sesame' touch of professional 'fin-
gers was at that time a fact which had never
been brought to the realization of the rustic
mind. I remember looking round, after I was
in bed, and thinking how secure every thing
wag-the doors safely locked, the shutters
closed with springs,, and not an avenue of
entrance left by which a mouse could profit.
I gazed with complacent gratulation at the
safe at the farther end of the room-the safe
sitting modestly back in a corner, and giving
no sign of the golden treasure within it-as I
thought how emphatically we were burglar-
proof. Nevertheless, seeing the firelight
gleam on a digger of papa's-a pretty, fan.
czfnl~ Albanian trifle, which he had picked up
in some of his Eastern rambles-I thought I
might as well put it within convenient reach,
so springing out of bed, I ran across the
floor, and took it down from its place over
the mantel. I remember distinctly how I
felt its cold, keen edge as I went back; then,
slipping it under my pillow, I extinguished
the light and dropped comfortably into sleep.
"I do not know how long I slept, but I
.think it was about midnight when I waked
sud4enl~ with a strange sense of terror, a
Wind instinct of danger, 'which made the
blood settle like ice around my heart. My
senses dl~ not, as is usually the case, strug-
gle In the dim border-land between sleep and
~vaklng, but I was roused to perfect con-
scIousness in an instant-consciousness as
complete and clear as that which I enjoy at
this moment. As well as I can recollect, my
flr~t physical impression was of a strange
heaviness, together with a subtle odor which
I knew perfectly, yet could not identify.
When I lifted a little the lids which seemed
held down by some indefinable weight, Isaw
that a light was in the chamber, and that a
man, wearing a black mask, held a bottle of
chloroform to my nostrils, while another, also

masked, knelt l~efore the safe at the farther
end of the room.
"You wonder, perhaps, that I did not
faint, realizing my utter helplessness. I have
sometimes wondered myself; but the truth is,
that we rarely give way under pressure of
great emergencies. On the contrary, I think
we hardly know our own capabilities until we
have been tried in some such manner. I
closed my eyes after that one glance, and lay
perfectly motionless, feeling instinctively that
to feign unconsciousness was the only re-
source, the only hope in such peril as this.
There was nothing to be done. To move, to
attempt to cry aloud, was to seal my death-
warrant, for the same hand which was hold-
ing the chloroform to my nostril could have
been on my throat before more than a gurgle
had been uttered. I did not move a muscle,
therefore; I even regulated my breathing to
simulate the soft uniformity of slumber. You
think you could not have done as much?"
(A murmur had risen from the audience here.)
"Take my word for it, the most timid woman
here would have done just as I did. You see
there was no alternative. Death hung over
me on a hair, and in mortal peril it is said
that even cowards are bcrave. With all my
acting, my heart beat so madly that I feared
it would betray me, and there are no words
to tell what agonizing thoughts were mean-
while surging in my brain. I knew that with
every breath I inhaled tbe powerful anms-
thetic, and the terror of . unconsciousness
grew momently greater. What could I do?
0 God! what could I do? I remember think-
ing little besides this while I lay motion-
less.
"I lived an age of horror in the few min-
utes that elapsed after my waking, until the
voice of the burglar who was forcing the safe
said something-so low and muffled that I did
not catch it-~--which summoned his companion
to him. I felt that the latter hesitated a mo-
ment and looked at me. Then, as I supposed,
concluding that I was 'safe,' he withdrew the
bottle; the next instant a handkerchief, satu-
rated in the chloroform, was laid across my
mouth and nose - after which, with light,
stealthy steps, he moved away.
"I heard it all, with senses sharpened to
tenfold their usual acuteness; and, when he
was once safely gone, I moved the handker-
chief slightly-just enough to allow me a little
pure air, instead of the stifling fumes of the

I

I


THE STORY OF A SCAR.

chloroform-and then I asked myself; wildly
and desperately, if there was nothing I could
do-if bitter necessity compelled me to lie
there and watch this daring robbery without
lifting a hand to protect the property intrusted
to my father's honor. You will say that such
a question, in my position, was utter madness,
and so it would have seemed to me at any
other time. But at that moment I forgot my
weakness, my utter helplessness, in the burn.
ing sense of outrage which came over me as
strongly as if I had been a very Samson.
Watching the two burglars from under my
eyelids, I saw the door of the safe (which was,
in truth, little more thitn a strong box) yield
to their efforts, and swing back. Was there
nothing I could ~o, I asked myself again, in
.utter despair-anti, as I asked it, I thought of
the dagger under my pillow!
"I say that I thought of it, but I need
scarcely ad~ that an instant's consideration
told me that no possible weapon could make
me a match for two men, even if desperation
lent me courage enough to face them. Still I
put up my hand very softly, and drew the
dagger from under my pillow-there being
something singularly reassuring in the cold
steel of its blade. It astonishes me yet to re-
member how cool I was all this time-so cool
that I was sure my hand would not tremble if
the safety of my life ekotdd depend upon one
stroke of the poniard which I grasped as my
only friend and refuge. I was naturally anx-
ions to avoid any such unequal contest-both
for my own sake, and that of the men whom I
could not help remembering soere men, with
souls to be sent Into eternity. I was, how-
ever, determined to save the jewels if possi-
ble; and, strange as it may seem, a plan of es-
cape at last suggested itself to me-a reckless
plan enough, as you may judge. As I have
said, the safe was at the other end of the
room from the bed, and the two burglars, in
stooping over it, had turned their backs on
me. The door leading into the hall was mid-
way between the two ends of the room. If I
could once reach it unubserved, I could escape
and give the alarm.
"It was a forlorn hope, but I determined
to try it. Perhaps I should not have ventured
to do so if I had not been certain of at least
one ally the moment I opened the door. This
was a large mastiff, named Caesar. He was a
great favorite with papa, and always. slept on
I
a mat in the hall. His instinct told him that

I

158

0
04
CS

'4
C.,
CS
C)
C)
14
CS
CS
0
42
14
0)
CS
CS
~CS
04
CS

something was wrong, and for some time past
I had heard him scratching and whining at
the door. Once aroused, I knew that no bull-
dog could surpass him for strength, no blood-
hound for ferocity, and so-if the worst came
to the worst after the door was opened-I
knew that C~esar was certainly good for one
burglar, and perhaps-if God gave me quick-
ness and strength when both were needed-I
and my dagger might be good for another.
"Chance, and the absorbed preoccupation
of the two men, favored me. One short
prayer-how fervent you can never tell unless
you are placed in some such strait--and, step.
ping out of bed with the dagger in my hand,
I took the first steps, in my bare feet, on the
thickly-carpeted floor. They did not notice
me. All around them were gleaming masses
of plate and jewelry. I crossed the floor
swiftly, noiselessly, and with perfect safety.
But, when my hand touched tke lock of the
door, it gave a sharp click, which made them
both start and turn. A single glance was
enough. With an oath I shall never ~'orget,
one of them strode toward mc.
"Don't expect me to describe the scene
that followed-I could not, if my life de~
ended on it. I only know that, before I
could unfasten the door, I was in the grasp
of a man, whose hands might have been made
of iron from the manner in which they caught
me, ~nd the manner in which I felt them in
every fibre. The vast majority of women.(in
our class of life) go to their graves without
ever having had cause to realize the brute
dominion of man-when he chooses to use the
strength given him by his Maker-over the
frail phyaique of woman. In those days I was
young, healthy, well developed, and somewhat
vain of my strength; yet I was like a reed in
that man's hands. Not even despair and
loathing horror could give me energy enough
to free myself from a grasp which felt as ifW
might crush every bone in my body. Half
suffocated as I was, I had power, however, to
raise my voice and give one cry-the utter-
ance of mortal extremity and terror. In a
second a hand was over my mouth, and an-
other at my throat. 'Try that again, and you
are a dead woman in two minutes I' the bin,.
glar hissed in my ear. The close grip on my
throat rendered this more than a threat, and
an instinct-the instinct that causes even the
weakest to fight forilfe-mademe lift the hand
which was now free, and plunge the dagger


154

THE STORY OF A SCAR.

(which he had been on the point of wresting
from me When I screamed) up to the hilt in
his body!
"He dropped his hands from my throat,
and, with one deep groan, staggered back.
As he did so, I turned, and, with wildly-ex-
cited fingers, tore open the door. Then, with
a deep, menacing growl, such as I never
heard before, and hope never to hear again,
Caesar rushed past me. I heard cries.-.oaths
-the sound of fierce struggling-the deep
bass muster of the dog-as I fled from the
room, but I dared not pause, and bursting
into the dining-room, I faced John, whom my
scream and the noise of the dog had at last
aroused.
"In a few minutes the only other man of
the establishment-..the gardener-.--was wak-
ened; and, armed with any available weapons
that came to hand, the two men entered the
now ominously silent room. Despite their
entreaties, I followed them, and-shall I ever
forget the scene* which greeted me! There
was the open safe, with a lantern on the floor
beside it, the light flashing back from all the
shining plate and dazzling jewels, which cov-
ered the carpet. Near the door-.-within five
paces of where I had stood-lay the burglar
who had caught me; and near the safe---with
Cmsar crouching on his chest.-...was the other.
The two servants went at once to draw off the
dog, and, while they did this, I bent to see if
the mau near me were dead or only wounded.
I found that he was still living, though he had
evidently tried to rise, and fainted from pain
or loss of blood. Anxious to give him air
sufficient for recovery, I lifted the crape mask
from his face, and, as God sees and hears me,
this midnight vobber....-this thief whom I had
stabbed as an outlaw, in self-defence~--proved
to be no other than Edward Clavering, my
father's constant guest, my own devoted
lover!
"I knelt over him as if I had been turned
to stone-.-striving vainly to realize the hide-
ous horror of the discovery.-~when a stifled
cry frofa John fell on my ear.
"'Good God!' I heard him exclaim.
'Sandy', here's Mr. Ridgeley-and its's stone
deadl'
"They say that afterthis I uttered a cry.-.
the second which had passed my lips-and
fell back into a deep swoon. I only know
that those words are the last I remember of
that hideous night."

There was silence with the quai~tet for
some time after Mrs. Stuart reached this
tragic climax of her story; but, to make it
satisfactorily complete, there was more yet to
be told; and, after waiting as long as was
possible, Miss Palmer at last hazarded a ques-
tion.
"Was he quite dead, Mrs. Stuart?"
Yes," answered Mrs. Stuart, speaking
with great effort. "Casar had done his work
well. The wretched man never breathed af-
ter those strong teeth were once fastened in
his throat. Edward Clavering, however, re-
covered, and, although I never saw him after-
ward, papa told me' that he had confessed
every thing with regard to himself and his mo-
tives. The whole family were adventurers,
and he was-as Harry had declared-.--a pro-
fessional gambler. and eltevatier d'indusfrie.
Fortune had for some time been at a very low
ebb with him, and to marry me was his last
hope bf retrieving his affairs. One or two
people who knew his character had, however,
chanced to come into the neighborhood of the
county, and he was aware that exposure
might overtake him any day or hour. Under
these circumstances he grew desperate; and,
knowing that there was very little hope of my
father's consenting to the marriage (even if I
should accept his proposal), he determined
upon the bold stroke of 'securing' Mrs. Ha:-
die's jewels. The plan had presented itself
to him when he heard of my father's absence,
and it was to facilitate the matter that he had
urged me so strongly to leave the house. It
was also on this account that he had brought
matters to a decided issue with regard to his
suit. lie had always distrusted the marks of
favor which I accorded to him; for my repu-
tation as a coquette was wide-spread, and he
had no idea of giving up a certain good (the
jewels) for the uncertain good of being played
with a little longer by an accomplished flirt.
Still, if I had not been so decided-if I had
given him any hope of my eventually saying
'Yes '.-every thing might have been differ-
ent. The unfortunate Ridgeley would not
have been led to his death, and the exposure
when it came would not have been so open
and so terrible. One thing, however, is cer-
tain: his purpose would have been safely
achieved-.-the jewels would have been lost,
and royfather's fortune, If not credit, serious-
ly impaired, but for my whim of sleeping
down-stairs. I alone had the credit of pre.

I

THZE STORY

venting the robbery, and it was not until I
waked from my long and death-like swoon
that I found at how much cost to myself
this credit had been gained. I was ill-I re-
mained ill for weeks-and this hand" (she
held up the one across the white surface of
which the long, red scar was traced) "had
been laid open to the bone by the keen edge
of the dagger to which I clung in that short,
close struggle.
"Was I cured of flirting? I think I may
safely say that I was; but I never married
Harry Wilinot, though we were good friends
and cousins to the day of his death. In this
respect, at least, you see, the whole course of
my life was changed by the story I have told
you."
The steady voice of the narrator sank into
silence, the bright blaze of the fire had died
down to a spft glow which did little more than
reveal faint outlines of the four ladies grouped
around it, and, as the gloom of twilight deep.
ened into night, the large room looked almost
eerie enough for a ghost-scene. The tragic
narrative to which they had just listened had
sobered the audience exceedingly, and no
voice broke the stillness until there came
sounds-footsteps and voices on the stair-
which told that the gentlemen were coming
up. Then there was something of a commo-
tion. Mrs. Dulaney rang for lights, Miss
Palmer's pretty feet resumed their proper
place on the floor, Miss Lamar rose from her
lowly seat, and sank into a deep chair some-
what outside the circle and in the shade;
Here a tall, handsome gentleman found her
when he glanced round eagerly for his "nut-
brown mayde."

OF A SCAR.                         155~
"Why are you looking so pensive?" he
asked, leaning over the back of her chair.
"Have you been frightening each other with
ghost.stories here in the dark?"
She threw her head back and looked up at
him with her liquid-brown eyes. Wretched
little sinner that she was, shq~ knew only too
well how these same eyes w&amp;e treacherous
lakes into the depths of which men's hearts
tumbled unawares and were heard of no more.
"Ghost-stories?" she repeated. "No,
indeed! We have had something much moro
thrilling than a ghost-story, because it was
true-a story of robbery, and danger, and
courage, and death! With a moral, too!"
"Indeed! And may I ask what the moral
was ?-to get patent locks, and keep fire-arms
by your bed 2
"No. The moral was less commonplace
-at least in connection with robbery. It was~
highly edifying, I assure you, for it was this
-beware of flirtation!"
He elevated his eyebrows and laughed.
"Is it possible? I think I shall beg for
the story, for I cannot imagine two more in-
congruous ideas than burglary and flirtation.
And are we to have a feminine Saul among
the prophets-do you mean to swear off from
your favorite amusement?"
"Swear off! As if I ever flirted! or, as
if my poor shots could hurt anybody, if I
did~"
"Don't lay that'flattering unction to your
soul,'" said he, in a whisper. "Your shots
have crippled one bird for life, and Heaven
only knows what you mean to do with him."
"Put him in my game-bag, of course,"'
she answered, with a wicked glance.

T HE E ND.-


CHAPTER 1.
T HE day was bright, still, and balmy.
Though January had told but a third
of his span of days, Nature was already be-
ginning to awake from her winter~ sleep.
Flowers were blooming, bees were humming,
and birds were singing gayly amid the ever-
green shrubs, in the large garden attached to
one of the handsomest private residences in
the town of J-. All was sunny and cheer-
ful without doors; all was bustle and excite-
ment within. It was the eve of the wedding-
day of the only child and heiress of the
house, and, in anticipation of the important
event, all heads and hands were busy with
preparations.
Mrs. Blount, the lady of the mansion, was
a little too busy for the comfort of her ser-
vants and assistants. $he was here, there,
everywhere; in the store-room, where the
process of cake-making, cake-decorating, and
the general manufacture of domestic confec-
tions, was in full tide-up-stairs, down-stairs-
even in the kitchen, with iluestions, sugges-
tions, directions, that infinitely disgusted the
cook-hindering everybody, helping nobody,
until the very rustle of her silk dress be-
came an abomination in the ears of the much-
tried household. The confectioner's man,
who was in command of the storeroom, had
again and again respectfully represented that
he "would have all right, without her troub-
ling herself-she might depend upon thoU"
-the cook had exclaimed each time that the
brown silk invaded her domain, "Now don't
you be botherin', mistiss, and n~aking yourself
uneasy. You know I'm boutsd to have every
thing fust-rate for Miss Emmy's wedding'

breakfast ! "-and her own maid had protest.
ed solemnly against her "breaking herself
down this way, instead of keeping quiet, so
as to be well to-morrow." But remonstrances
were vain. Mrs. Blount could not keep quiet.
Her spirits were, at that altitude of exhila-
ration which must effervesce in restless mo-
tion. It was not only that she enjoyed in-
tensely the fuss, excitement, and ~clat of her
daughter's marriage with one of the richest,
handsomest, and most fashionable men of
J-; the crown of her content was, that
she herself had "made the match;" that, but
for her, it "never would have been a match."
And so, happy and self- congratulating, she
wantlered about, blandly unconscious of how
much she was in everybody's way, and how
heartily everybody was wishing her at the an-
tipodes.
There were two rooms in the house, how-
ever, which, in all her wanderings, she left un-
invaded. One of these was the chamber of
her daughter, the bride-elect; the other was
the private room of her husband-a small
apartment adjoining the library-which en-
joyed the prescriptive right of exemption
from intrusion.
In this latter, Mr Blount was now sitting,
on a sofa drawn near to the fire. He had
just turned from the library-table at his el-
bow, where he had been writing letters, and,
leaning forward, took up the poker, and be-
gan to stir the fire mechanically. Mr. Blount
was a man whose life was exclusively of thb
world. He ate, he slept, he entertained his
friends, he read, wrote, and studied, under his
own roof, and he paid all the bills his wife
presented to him, without question or com-
ment; but that.was all. So far as any of the

I

A DOIJ]3T.


158

A DOUBT.

usual influences of home were concerned, he
might as well have been the celibate of an
anchored's cell. He had early in his married
life discovered that there was nothing in
common between himself and the vain, friv-
olous woman whom he had made his wife;
for, though the world occupied an equal place
in her regard as in his own, it was in a very
different form. He was intellectual, energet-
ic, ambitious, while she was a mere butterfly
of fashion; far the more selfish and heartless,
inasmuch as she was by far the moet shallow
nature of the two.
On the present family occasion, there was
as little harmony of sentiment as usual be-
tween this ill-matched pair. As Mr. ]llount
bent over, and absentlystirred the eoais, hi~
face, so far from exhibiting the expression of
beatified content which his wife's counte-
Sr nanee was bearing about, was very clouded.
His eye was thoughtful, his brows somewhat
-contracted, and his lips compressed. He was
thinking of an appeal which his daughter, to
his great astonishment, had addressed. to him
the night before; and, as he thought, his
face grew darker and darker for he felt
that, without any fault of his own, he occu-
pied a very embarrassing and painful posi-
tion; and the sense of this was not less dis-
agreeable than novel to him. He had prom-
ised his daughter that be would consider the
matter which she had so abruptly forced upon
his attention, and he had kept his word'-.
baying spent the greater part of the night
revolving it in his mind. But, look at the
question as he would, he could find no satis-
factory solution of the difficulty. For once,
his keen intellect, and usual fertility of re-
source, were entirely at fault. He was hope-
lessly perplexed.
While he was still ruminating the subject,
there was a low knock at the door. He
hesitated a moment before he said, "Come
in," and, for the first time in his life, was
conscious of a positive sense of cowardice, as
he heard the door open and shut, and a slight,
quick step crossing the floor. It was not un-
til this step paused beside him, that he turned
and looked up.
A young girl, whose slender figure and
delicate blond beauty gave her an almost
painful appearance of fragility, was standing
with feverishly-varying color, her eager gaze
fastened upon him. At the first glimpse of
his countenance, she seemed to read the do-

vision at that instant forming in hi&amp; mind,
and the lovely half-blushes, that were coming
and going momently in her cheek, faded sud-
denly, leaving it as stony white as freshly.
carved alabaster.
"Papa, 0 papa!" she cried, without wait-
ing for him to speak, "I cannot, cannot mar-
ry him! Oh, have mercy on me, and send
him away! I cannot, cannot marry him!"
She pressed her hands down one upon
the other, on the edge of the table by which
she stood~ as if to steady herself-for she was
trembling from head to foot-pressed them so
hard, that they were almost as bloodless as
her face; and there was a strange look of
terror and anguish in her eyes, while her
voice had the very wail of despair in its ac-
cents.
"My daughter," said Mr. Blount, gravely
.-taking her hands, he drew her toward him,
and placed her on the sofa by his side-" my
daughter, sit down and listen to what I have
to say."
"0 papa! 0 papa!" she gasped hyster-
ically, "you do not mean-you cannot be so
cruel as to mean-."
"Don't excite yourself in this violent
manner,,' said her father, whose face had be-
come a shade paler than usual. "Try and
control this agitation-try and listen to me,
Emily."
He was still holding her hands, but by
a sudden effort she released them from
his grasp, and began wringing them franti-
cally.
"Tell me-only tell me," she cried, "that
you will save me from this worse than death!
That is all I ask!"
"I can tell you nothing until you are capa-
ble of listening to reason, my daughter," he
answered, with the samegentle gravity as when
he spoke first.
"Reason!" exclaimed she, passionately.
Then looking at his face, and reading its ex-
pression, she added n~ore quietly: "Forgive
me for distressing you so much! I will try to
listen to you."
He put his hand on We soft brown hair
that was pushed carelessly back from her
face, flowing in disordered ringlets on her
shoulders, and smoothed 5t softly for a mo-
ment, before he said:
"Emily, if you had told, rue, at the time
this marriage was first spoken of, that in ac-
cepting Madison you were acting under com-

I

A DOUBT.

pulsioa of your mother's influence, I should
not only have at once put a stop to the affair
itself, but I should have taken care that such a
thing never happened again, by peremptorily
forbidding your mother's interference, either
one way or the other, with your future matri-
monial choice. But I understood from her
that you accepted him voluntarily; and your
conduct gave every color of probability to
this assertion. I saw you walking and riding
with him constantly-receiving his attentions
at all times, as if they were agreeable to you;
and when I made the direct inquiry of you-
as a matter of form only, I confess-.-whether
you wished to marry the man, you answered
distinctly that you did."
"Yes, yes, I was a poor, miserable coward!
As I told you last night, papa, mamma man-
aged to throw me with-with him , against my
will, and to commit me in so many different
ways, that I was coward enough to feel it im-
possible to say no, when he finally asked me
to marry him. But as to my receiving his
attentions, that was not my fault. Mamma
would promise him that I would ride or walk
with him at a certain time, and would
then insist on my fulfilling the engagement
when he came to claim it. I never liked him
-though I did not, when I consented to mar-
ry him, detest him as I do now. I thought
that as I had unintentionally led him on, as
mamma called it, to offer himself-that I
would try to like him. And, 0 papa, I have
tried so hard! But the more I saw of him,
the more did I feel dislike, amounting to ut-
ter disgust; and though for a long time I
would not acknowledge this, even to myself,
as the time drew nearer and nearer for me
to marry him, I-I---papa, I could not endure
it! I abhor him-I loathe him! Death would
be a thousand times preferable to marrying
him I 0 papa! have mercy on me, and save
me! I shall lose my senses or die, if I
have to marry this man!"
"What can I do at this late hour? Con-
sider, Emily-if you had spoken to me a
month or even a week ago, it would have
been different; but yoi let the engagement
go on for months, you wait until the marriage
has been publicly announced, every prepara-
ti9n completed, the very eve of the day ar-
rives, and you wish to break it off thou!
Don't you know that to jilt the man in this
notorious manner would be most unprincipled,
nios&amp;dishonorable conduct?"

159

She did not answer. She only wrung her
hands again, with a look of utter de-
spair.
"Do not think that I am indifferent to
your wishes," continued Mr. Blount, after a
little pause. "I would do any thing which it
was possible to do, my daughter, to release
you from a marriage that seems so repugnant
to your inclination. But what you propose
would be a disgraceful breach of faith. Don't
you see that?"
"Is there no hope, no help, for me?" she
asked, with a desperate sort of calmness.
"No help but in your own strength of
character. Remember, it was by your own
act that you were involved in this affair. A
word to me, at any time, would have relieved
you of all difficulty. You ought to have
spoken that word in time. Since you did not
do so, you are hound in honor to keep your
faith."
"I would have appealed to you sooner, but
I was always afraid of you, father," said the
girl; bitterly.
"Afraid of me! What reason had you
to be afraid of me?" demanded he, hastily.
"Did I ever once act, or even speak, harshly
to you?"
"No; you were always kind enough, but
so cold! You scarcely seemed conscious of
my existence, unless some accident reminded
you of it."
"God forgive me!" said he, with a groan..
"God forgive me! One false step, one error,.
is the fruitful source of many succeeding evils~
I was not by nature what is called an affec-
tionate disposition, not impressionable or
demonstrative, and the little warmth and
sentiment that I did possess was frozen
by-"
He stopped, and was silent for some min-
utes.
"Emily," he said, turning suddenly to his
daughter, "answer me one question. Is it
some love - affair with another man which
makes you so averse to marrying Madi-
son?"
"No," she answered, meeting his keen
glance without the slightest hesitation. "I
do not love any other man. I wish I did; for
I could ask him to save me, then. No. It
is just that I detest.-..loatke-this man!"
She spoke quietly now, as if the climax
of passionate feeling was past, and something
very like apathy was stealing over her. Mr.


160

A DOUBT.

Blount looked with anxiety amounting to ap-
prehension at her pale face and drooping
form.
"My daughter,"( said he, abruptly, "you
think the sacrifice which your own conduct
has imposed upon you a hard one. Listen to
me, and I will tell you of a much harder sacri-
fice wiiich I once made to a sense of honor.
Did it ever occur to you to wonder, Emily,
why I married your mother?"
"I have always wondered at it," she an-
swered, listlessly.
"She was handsome when I first saw her,
and much admired; and, from the first mo-
ment of our acquaintance, she exerted every
effort to attract me. I don't think that, in-
trinsically considered, I should have given
her a single thought, or that it would have
been possible for her to obtain my most tran-
sient attention. But I was young and vain,
and, flattered by the favor voluntarily be-
stowed on me-a favor which I saw so many
around me coveting-I was unhappily drawn
on, until, despite my better judgment, and
almost before I knew what I was about, I was
engaged to her.
"It was at a watering-place that we met,
just at the end of the season. On the very
day after I had offered myself, and been ac-
cepted, we parted to return to our respective
homes. I was startled to find that, as I jour-
neyed homeward, I dragged a lengthening
chain, not of regret at parting from her, but
of repentance that I had been so weak as to
yield to a momentary infatuation, thus bind-
ing myself in honor to marry a woman for
whom I entertained not the slightest genuine
regard. And, if I felt this at the time, how
much more did I feel it afterward, when acci-
dent threw across my path a woman whom I
could have really loved, whom I did love, not-
withstanding my struggles against what my
own folly rendered a hopeless passion I But
I did not hesitate, my daughter, as to what I
should do. The real passion which had taken
possession of my heart filled it with a dis-
gust for the woman to whom I had engaged
myself, equal, at least, to that which you en.
certain for this man you are about to marry."
The girl shivered at his last words. "But-
I was bound in honor, and I kept my faith.
Now, do you not see that my ease was harder
'than your own? I loved another woman.
You have just assured me that that sting is
not added to your suffering. I was perfectly

aware that it was only for my wealth, and my
reputation as an ambitious and rising man,
that the coquette who had netted me wished
to become my wife; while you must acknowl-
edge that Madison is really attached to you
~for yourself alone. I do not admire him as a
man; he certainly would not have been my
choice as a son.in.law; but I must do him
the justice to admit that his love for you is
thoroughly honest and disinterested. I never
was mistaken in my judgment of a man's
character, and I am certain of this."
"What does it matter? I hate him-I
abhor him-I loathe him! Father" (she
caught his arm with both her hands, and
looked despairingly in his face), "do you
mean to tell me that there is no escape, that
I must marry him?"
"My daughter cannot act dishonorably,
and it would be dishonorable to draw back
now."
"Then, God help me, since you won't!"
she cried, burying her face in her hands.
After a minute, she slowly withdrew them,
and looked up. "I am sorry I have dis-
tressed you in this way, papa, since it has
done no good. I suppose you are right-that
every thing ought to be sacrificed to honor.
I will try to be resigned, since it must be
so."
She rose to go, and her father, rising also,
bent his head and pressed his lips to her
brow.
"My poor child!" he said.
That was all; but she saw that hi~ eyes
were full of tears.
"Are you so sorry for me as that?" she
said, with a sad, faint smile. And then she
repeated her last words: "I will try to be
resigned, since it must be so."
-4--
CHAPTER II.
"What! not dressed yet?" said Mrs.
Blount, sweeping into her daughter's room,
resplendent in pearl-colored silk, early the
~next morning, and finding Emily still in her
dressing-gown, standing before a window. "I
thought I particularly requested you to be
punctual, my dear," she added, with petulant
reproach.
"I shall be ready in time," answered
Emily, without turning round; and some-

I

A DOUBT.

thing in the tone of her voice grated very
harshly on her mother's ear.
She had managed and manoeuvred, with all
the skill of a cunning and perfectly unscrupu-
lous nature, to force her daughter into a mar-
riage to which, she was well aware, the girl's
inclinations were violently opposed; and she
felicitated herself on the success of her man-
agement. But still there was a little of the
mother yet alive at the bottom of her heart,
despite the mountain of selfishness overlying
it; and latterly this feeling had given her
some very uncomfortable qualms whenever
she was in Emily's presence. The language
of suffering was written so plainly on the pale
and altered face, but a little time before so
bright, that not all the specious arguments
with which egotism is ever r~dy to justify
itself to its worshipper vould quite stifle the
whisperings of remorse. "I have acted en-
tirely for her 1own good, and she will thank
me for it hereafter," was the stereotyped
phrase which she was in the habit of repeat-
ing to herself when her conscience was a
little more importunate than usual in con-
demning her arbitrary conduct in the matter
of this marriage. She repeated it now, as
she advanced to where Emily remained stand-
ing, and exclaimed, with ostentatious cheer-
fulness:
"Let me see if you are looking your best,
my love, as in duty bound this morn-
ing 1',
Her daughter did not reply, did not even
seem to hear the remark. She was gazing
vacantly far away into the blue sky at some
fleecy white clouds that floated slowly along,
and wishing, in an apathetic sort of way, that
she was one of them.
"It is time that you were dressing," said
Mrs. Blount, in somewhat less honeyed ac-
cents, for she began to feel both irritated and
uneasy at this strange manner.
"Very well-I will dress," answered the
girl, listlossly; but she made no movement
toward doing so.
"Never mind, Mrs. Blount; I will take
her in hand, and, trust me, she shall be forth-
coming at eleven o'clock," cried a gay voice
in Mrs. Blount's rear; and a young lady in
bridesmaid's costume 'came forward from the
other side of the apartment, where she had
been busy at a toilet-table, putting the finish-
ing touches to her own dress.
"Thank youMiss Laura-I will leave you
11

161

to your task, then," said Mrs. Blount, grab
ciously. "I am particularly anxious to be
punctual to the appointed hour. It is always
so tiresome and awkward when there is delay
on an occasion of this kind."
She smiled, and the pearl-colored silk rus-
tled majestically out of the room.
"Come, darling," said the young lady,
who had so opportunely for Mrs. Blount en-
tered an appearance on the scene-Emily's
favorite friend and first bridesmaid-Laura
Ashby-" come, you must dress."
"Very well," was the reply again; and
this time she did move.
She walked across the room to the toilet-
table, and resigned herself passively into the
hands of Miss Ashby and her own maid, who
went to work con amore, and, at least half an
hour before the stipulated time, presented her
to her own inspection in the mirror, in all the
bridal glories of white silk, orange-blossoms,
and veil, complete.
"You look lovely, perfectly lovely I" cried
Laura, enthusiastically. "A little too pale,
but then it is the regulation thing for a bride
to be pale-but beautiful as a dream I-Don't
she, Lucinda?"
"'Deed does she, Miss Laura," answered
the maid, in a glow of pride and admiration.
"The prettiest bride ever I saw!"
"Run, now, and see whether all the bridal-
party have arrived. I don't suppose they
have; it is early yet. You wait down-stairs
until it is time for us to go down, and come
and tell me then.-You know," she continued,
turning to Emily, as the maid left the ~oom,
"that the guests are to be in the front draw-
ing-room, and the folding-doors will remain
closed until we are all in our places in the
back drawing-room. Then they will be
thrown open, and the ceremony performed
immediately. That, and the congratulations,
and the breakfast, will-but what am I think-
[ug of to let you be standing tiring yourself
in this way? Come to the fire, and be quiet
antil we have to go down."
"I would rather go to the window," said
Rmily, returning to her former position.
' Please to raise it up, Laura, I am so
"It is a delightful morning," said Laura,
mshing up the sash; "the air is more like
&amp;pril than January." She drew a large arm-
~hair directly in front of the window as she
~poke, and made her friend sit down. "Don't

0


162                        A DOUBT.                                                                   A DOUBT.                        163

crush your dress, though," she entreated, as
the other sank into its depths without any
apparent recollection of that important con-
sideration. "Mercy, child I you will ruin
your head if you lean back against it in that
way."
Emily looked up with a faint smile.
"You can set it to rights again," she
said. "I must lean back; I am so very
tired."
She closed her eyes, and Laura, who had
been wondering privately all the morning at
the strange manner in which she was acting,
stood gazing at her now in positive dismay.
Everybody-that is, everybody who con-
stituted the fashionable world of J-, was
perfectly aware that this marriage of Mr.
Madison and Miss Blount was a "made
match;" everybody, excepting Mr. Illount,
who was not in the way of hearing gossip,
particularly about his own daughter, had
known all along that it was a match not at all
to the taste of the bride; and she had been
very much pitied at first. But people took
it for granted that she had "become recon-
ciled to the affair," and it was with a sudden
thrill that Laura Ashby now connected her
singular conduct with the recollection of her
aversion to the marriage.
"Good Heavens 1" thought she, aghast;
and she went and sat down by the fire to
think thematter over.
A thousand little circumstances unnoticed
at the time of their occurrence started up to
corroborate the dreadful suspicion which had
flashed upon her mind; and she was wringing
her hands, metaphorically, over the miserable
fate to which her poor friend was condemned,
when the door opened, and a troop of brides-
maids were ushered in by Lucintla.
After exchanging a few sentences with
Laura, they all followed her with gay words
and laughter to offer their greetings to the
bride, who still sat just as Laura had left her
a few minutes before.
"She is asleep," whispered the first one
who approached; and the rest moved softly,
and spoke in low tones as they gathered
around the chair.
"How lovely she looks 1"
"Beantiful!"
"Exquisite!"
"Too pale!"
"Oh, she will have color when she be-
comes excited!"

Suddenly a silence fell over the circle-
the silence of unconscious awe. She was so
still. They looked at each other in surprise;
then chill doubt and terror came into their
eyes, and they stood paralyzed.
It was at this moment that Lucinda ap-
proached the group, and, struck by the ex-
pression of all the faces before her, she
pressed forward, as with an instinct of what
was to come, gazed for an instant with start-
ing eyes, then seized one of the white hands
that hung loosely over the arm of the chair.
A touch was sufficient. She fell on her knees
before the motionless form, with a loud, pier-
cing shriek that rang through the whole
house, smote fearfully on the ears of the wed-
ding-guests assembled in the drawing-room
beneath, and, in the contagious panic of hor-
ror, was taken up and rei$choed by every one
of the circle of girls around.
CHAPTER III.
Emily Blount had watched the sun rise
that morning of her wedding.day in golden
splendor; but clouds gathered at early noon,
and the same sun sank to his rest in gloom
and darkness. When the next day dawned
there seemed a shadow over the heavens as
deep as the pall of grief that had fallen on
the house so. suddenly changed from a house
of joy to a house of mourning. The sky was
one sombre gray; the air was still and damp.
People who professed to understand the
weather said that a heavy winter storm was
coming on, which would last for days. There
were speculations whether Emily Blount's
funeral would not, or ought not, to take place
that afternoon, as the weather was so threat-
ening, the cemetery was a mile from town,
and the road to it a desperately bad one after
a rain. Everybody who entertained any in-
terest on the subject-all the friends and ac-
quaintances of the Blounts, that is to say-
looked anxiously in the morning paper to see
if there was a notice, but none appeared;
and it was generally understood during the
course of the morning that the funeral was
appointed for the following day. About noon,
however, there was a burial-paper carried
round: the funeral would take place at three
o'clock r M. It soon transpired, further,
that Mr. Blount had with difficulty been in-

U

duced to consent to this change of arrange.
ment, on the representations of the physicians
attending his wife, that, unless the body of
her daughter was removed from the house
very soon, they could not answer for her
sanity, so violent was her grief and her re-
morse.
"No wonder Mrs. Blount feels remorse!"
said Laura Ashby, as her brother sat down
beside her in bhe ~arriage, to go to the fu-
neral. "She is just as much Emily's mur-
derer as if she had taken a knife and cut her
throat!"
Then, with all the eloquence of grief and
indignation, Laura proceeded to relate to her
brother (who had returned home only two
days previously, after a long absence, and
consequently was not informed in the matter
of the social gossip of J-) the whole his-
tory of the matchc" over which Mrs. Jilount
had made so much rejoicing, and which had
ended so tragically.
"0 Duncan! if you had seen her smile,
her face, as she looked up at me just be-
fore-"
The girl paused-her voice choked in tears.
"And she died of disease of the heart, it
is thought? "asked Duncan, who was a physi-
cian, and naturally felt an interest in the sub-
ject of so unusual and sudden a death, but
had had no opportunity of speaking to his
sister about it before, as she had not been at
home from the time of Emily's death until
she returned half an hour before, to change
her dress for the funeral.
"Of course it was disease of the heart,"
she answered. "The doctors said so-and
what else could it have been? They were
trying every thing to recover her yesterday
morning; for the doctors thought at first that
it might be merely a fainting - lit. But I
knew better. I knew the instant I looked at
her that she was dead! She was just as c6ld
and rigid l~hen-and it had not been ten min-
utes since she was speaking to me-just as
cold and rigid as she is now. I want you to
see her, Duncan; she looks so lovely!"
The carriage stopped at this moment. They
alighted, and, entering the house, Laura led
the way at once into the back drawing-room,
where the body of Emily Blount was lying.
It was before the days of burial-cases, and
the top of the coffin had not yet been put on;
the full-length figure was visible, in all the
mocking glory of her bridal array.

"flow beautiful!" was Duncan Ashby's
first thought, as his eye rested on it; and
then, with a sudden, sharp pain that sur-
prised himself, he remembered a single line
of poetry he had lately seen quoted in some
novel he had been reading:
"Death holds not long his fairest guest un-
changed."
The young man had been studying disease
and death in all their numberless forms, in the
hospitals of Paris, until, like too many of his
profession, he had come to practically regard
the human body simply as a curious piece of
mechanism animated by the vital principle.
But he could not look at the form before
him in this cold, abstract manner. He could
only gaze on it as a vision of beauty such as
he had never beheld before. There was not
the faintest shade of death's livid hue on the
pure whiteness of the face; no sinking or
sharpness of feature; there was, even, none
of that peculiar expression around the lips,
and in the fall of the eyelashes upon the
cheek, which is the most invariable signet set
by Death upon his victims. And yet it did
not look like life, either. In both form and
face there was a rigidness resembling mar-
ble more than flesh; and the complc~ion was
unnaturally tintless; bloodlessly transparent
as Parian. It seemed a thing that belonged
neither to death nor to life-but, rather, to the
realm of the beautiful in art; like
"Sonic bright creation of the Grecian chisel:
As cold, as pale, as passionless, as perfect."
How long Duncan Ashby remained in
rapt contemplation of that lovely mould of
clay, he could not have told. Indeed, he
afterward had a very indistinct recollection
of every thing that occurred during the fol-
lowing two hours. That double conscious-
ness which ofteti enables us to acquit our-
selves creditably in word and manner, while
our thoughts are far away from time and
place, must have befriended him; ~'or, not-
withstanding that a very grave conflict was
going on in his mind, no outward token be~
traded it.
Though the hour was barely that of sun-
set when the long line of carriages that had
followed Emily Blount's funeral left the ceme-
tery gate to return to town,, the sky was so
overcast that dusk had already fallen; and
when Duncan Ashby and his sister arrived at
home, it was quite dark. Dinner had been


164                        A DOUBT.                                                                     A DOUBT.                        165

kept waiting for them, and to Duncan's satis-
faction was served immediately. Laura, ex-
cusing herself on the plea of a bad headache,
retired at once to her own room; and Mr.
Ashby, pare, though he had already dined,
complacently sat down to keep his son com-
pany. He was rather shocked by the hasty
manner in which Duncan dispatched the busi-
ness. He ate-for he was hungry and need-
ed his dinner-but he ate like a hungry man
who was in a gweat hurry; and on rising from
table surprised.Mr. Ashby by leaving him for
the evening. He had an engagement, he
said, which would probably detain him out
late; and so he would wish his father good.
night before going.
A thin, drizzling rain had set in half an
hour before, and had been increasing steadily
in violence ever since; and consequently it
was through a pelting shower that 'Duncan
made his way to the house of Dr. Boyd,
Mr. Blount's family physician. It chanced
that the doctor, who was a widower, and kept
whatever hours suited his convenience of the
moment, having dined before going to the
funeral, was just enjoying a substantial sup.
per, in all the ease and comfort of dressing-
gown and slippers. Duncan's ring at the
door startled him to the indulgence in one or
two expletives rather more emphatic than
reverent, for he apprehended that it might
be a professional call; and he felt irritated at
the bare thought of having to leave his com-
fortable fireside-to say nothing of the whis-
key-punch which was at that moment in pro-
cess of brewing by his trusty housekeeper-
and brave the inclement weather without.
But, on learning that it was a visitor instead
of a call, he ordered the servant to show the
young man in, and rose with the greatest cor-
diality to welcome him.
The first salutations over, Duncan, after
declining supper, as he had just risen from
dinner, proceeded at once to the business
which had brought him through the rain and
the night.
"Doctor," he said, with a smile, "do you
know a sane man when you see him?"
The doctor's eyes opened wide in astonish.
ment. "What do you mean?" he inquired.
"Just put your finger on my pulse, will
you," said Duncan, extending his wrist-
*" and look me straight in the eyes. Well, are
they the pulse and the eye of health, bodily
and mental?"

"What do you mean?" asked the doctor
again.
"I have come to you on an errand wlich
I am afraid you will consider so insane that,
before telling you what it is, I think it well
to take the precautionary measure of con-
vincing you that I am compos menus."
"We'll say that I am convinced, then. Go
on," said the doctor, whose curiosity was
considerably excited.
"In a word, I doubt if the young lady
who was buried this afternoon, is dead; and
I have come to ask you to go with me, with-
out loss of time, and examine whether my
suspicion is correct."
"What 1" cried the doctor, as soon as he
recovered himself sufficiently to speak, his
breath having been quite taken away by
Duncan's astounding assertion and proposal.
"What!"
Duncan repeated, a little more at length,
what he had said before.
"Good Heavens!" exclaimed the doctor,
"what has put such an idea into your
head?"
"It is not an idea, but a doubt, that I en-
tertain- a faint doubt, I will say- but, a
doubt. And it seems to me an imperative
duty to clear it up in time."
"Unquestionably," answered the doc-
tor. "What are your grounds for this
doubt?"
Duncan proceeded to explain, in technical
phrase, certain slight appearances and indi-
cations which he had observed, without at
the time attaching much importance to them
-but which gradually acquired more and
more weight in his estimation, until he final-
ly resolved, while returning from the funeral,
to lay them before Dr. Boyd, and entreat his
assistance in the investigation which he him-
self was resolved to make.
"But why the d-l," said the doctor, im-
patiently, "didn't you speak at once? You
thought the girl was alive, and yet said not a
word against her being buried! I'll be d-d
if that looks as if you were compos men-
tis I"
"Well, in the first place, as I told you,
these symptoms, or indications, did not strike
me very forcibly at the time that I observed
them. Yost must be aware, doctor, that there
is such a thing as dormant perceptions. I am
afraid that I must acknowledge that, so long
as I was looking at the body itself; I was eon-

scious of nothing but its wonderful beauty.
It was afterward, a's I was looking at the pie.
ture it left on my memory, that the doubt
came like a flash to my mind, 'Is not this a
cataleptic trance?'"
Dr. Boyd looked thoughtful; and then
he asked various questions, all of which Dun-
can answered readily.
"I wish to Heaven," he said, finally, "that
you had spoken in time to save all this trou-
ble, or else that your 'dormant perceptions'
had remained dormant until to-morrow morn-
ing! A pretty task this is that you've set
yourself and me, to go diving into a vault on
a business of this sort, at night-and such a
night! Well, how do you propose to proceed
in the affair?" he concluded, resignedly.
"I leave that for you to decide," an-
swered Duncan. "If you agree with me in
thinking thgtt, slight as my doubt is, it justi-
fies, nay, demands an. investigation, you can
best decide what is to be done."
The doctor wrinkled his forehead, and
spent some minutes in profound cogitation.
Then he rose and rang the bell once-and,
after an interval of a few seconds, rang it
again, twice.
"Bring round the baronche, Tony," he
said to the man-servant who first appeared
-and who, with a not well-pleased "Yes, sir,"
disappeared as a woman - servant entered.
"Clarinda," said the doctor - "ah, you've
brought the punch-just in good time.-Take
a glass, Duncan !-Clarinda, I am going out,
and may bring back with me, in half an hour or
a little longer, a-a sick person. Have a room
ready-with a good fire and a warm bed, and
have plenty of hot water and hot bricks on
~ hand, so as to be ready for any emergency.
And, hark you! don't be scared at any thing
you may see when I return. Bring my boots,
coat, and overcoat."
With a heart-felt sigh, he put off his dress.
ing-gown and slippers, indeed the out-door
costume, and, after paying his respects to the
punch, he and Duncan sallied forth. They
found the barouche and Tony waiting. The
latter, to his great joy, having been informed
that his attendance was not required, they
entered the carriage and drove off at a pace
which soon brought them to the door of the
small house near the cemetery, which was oc-
cupied by the sexton who had charge of the
place. By a considerable expenditure of
time, patience, and argument, this personage

was convinced that their errand to Mr.
Bloiint's family vault was not of an illegiti-
mate and nefarious nature. It took all the
weight of Dr. Boyd's character to reassure
the natural distrust with which the sexton
regarded the medical profession in connection
with burial-grounds. Finally, hos~ever, his
scruples were satisfied-more particularly as
he was invited to inspect their proceedings
with his own eyes-and, taking his dark lan-
tern in one hand, and his keys in the other,
he preceded the two gentlemen along the wind-
ing gravel-walk which led to their point of
destination. In a few minutes they found
themselves within the va~,lt.
It was a dank, dismal place, ill venti-
lated, and consequently very damp; paved
and walled with brick, and surrounded on
three sides by a shelf of about two feet in
width, on which was deposited half a score
or so of coffins, some of which had mouldered
almost to dust, while others were perfectly
sound apparently, though all but the one
which had been so recently deposited were
mouldy and mildewed. Having lighted the
candles which they had brought, and so dis-
posed them as to throw a good light over
their further proceedings, they, with the as-
sistance of the sexton, lifted the coffin which
they came to inspect from the shelf to the
floor. The lid was unscrewed, and, after ex-
changing one glance, they lifted it from the
shell.
There was no change in the appearance
of the body. Dr. Boyd touched the brow,
the hands; drew forth a pocket-mirrorand,
holding it before the nostrils, examined care-
fully to see whether the glass was dimmed.
Then he shook his head.
"We have our labor for our pains," he
said, in a low tone. "Still I am glad we
came. After you had once put that ugly
thought of burying alive into my head, I
could not have rested until I convinced my-
self, by ocular demonstration, that there was
no danger of such a thing. I suppdse you
are satisfied now? I am, and I think we
had better close the coffin and go."
"Stop a moment," said Duncas~, A~ I will
be satisfied, doctor, with two more te~sts.
Try the first yourself; put your hand under
the armpits, and see if (here is the same
chill there as here." He pointed to the
brow.
Dr. Boyd did as requested. With some


1660

A DOUBT.

difficulty he insinuated his fingers between
the arm and the chest, on the outside of the
clothing. His face changed a little. He
thought or he imagined that there was not
that penetrating chill of death here. To de-
cide the point, he opened his penknife, and,
with a hand that trembled slightly, he in-
serted the blade in the edge of the dress at
the throat, and cut through the lace, silk,
and linen, that enveloped the bust. He
placed his hand first over the heart, waited
patiently, examined closely, and again shook
his head.
"The armpits!" said Duncan.
The doctor pushed his hand slowly along,
finally paused and started; then, with almost
a bound, he exclaimed, "By Heaven, you are
right! there is warmth-she is not dead!"
"Now, see here," said Duncan. He lifted

her right hand, straightening the elbow, and
putting the fingers into the position of point.
ing at the other side of the vault; after which
~he withdrew his hold of it, and it remained
precisely as he had placed it.
"Catalepsy!" said Dr. Boyd. "God bless
you-you have saved her!"
Yes, she was saved, but not without much
suffering. For months she labored under the
disease by which she had been so suddenly
attacked, and which had so nearly caused to
her the horrible fate from which Duncan
Ashby's "doubt" rescued her. Skill and
time conquered it eventually, however; and,
when health again bloomed in her cheek, a
second wedding-day dawned~ for her; And
this time Mr. Madison was not the bride-
groom.

T HE E ND.

COOPER'S
LEATHER-STOCKING NOVELS.
"Tin~ ENDURING MONUMENTS OF FENIMORE COOPER ARE HIS WORKS. WHILE THE
LOVE OF COUNTRY CONTINUES TO PREVAIL, HIS MEMORY WILL EXIST IN THE HEARTS OP
THE PEOPLE. So TRULY PATRIOTIC AND AMERICAN THROUGHOUT, THEY SHOULD FIND A
PLACE IN EVERY AMERICAN'S LIBRARY. "-Daniel Webster.
A NEW AND
SPLENDIDLY-ILLUSTRATED POPULAR EDITION
OF
FENIMORE COOPEII'S
WORLD-FAMOUS
LEATHER-STOCKING ROMANCES.
D. APPLETON &amp; Co. announce that they have commenced the publication
of J. Fenimore Cooper's Novels, in a form designed for general popular circu-
lation. The Series will begin with the famous "Leather-Stocking Tales," five
in number, and will be published in the following order, at Intervals of about

a month:

I. The Last of the ~ohicans.

II. The Deerslayer.
III. The P~.thfinder.

IV. The Pioneers.
V. The Prairie.

This edition of the "Leather-Stocking Tales" will be printed in handsome
octavo volumes, from new stereotype plates, each volume superbly and fully
illustrated with entirely new designs by the distinguished artist, F. 0. C. Dam
ley, and bound in an attractive paper cover. Prke, '75 cents per volume.
Heretofore there has been no edition of the acknowledged head of American
romancists suitable for general popular circulation, and hence the new issue of
these famous novels will be welcomed by the generation of readers that have
sprung up since Cooper departed from us. As time progresses, the character,
genius, and value of the Cooper romances become more widely recognized; he
is now accepted as the great classic of our American literature, and his l)oOk~'
as the prose epics of our early history.
D. APPLETON &amp; CO., Publishers, New York.


AiJIhIetoll &amp; CO.'S llnlill~lls of Fo~ll1ai~ NO~~Ii~t~.
4.4
BENJAMIN DISRAELI'S NOVELS.
I. LOTHAIR. l2mo. Cloth..........................Price, $2 00
cheap edition. 8vo. Paper...................."  I oo
II. HENRIETTA TEMPLE. 8vo.  "........."               50
III. VENETIA. 8vo                                      50
lY. THE YOUNG DUKE. Svo.   "........."                 50
V. .ALROY. 8vo.           "........."                 50
VI. CONTAINING FLEMING. Svo.  "........."               50
VIL VIVIAN GREY. 8vo.............................."    80
VIII. CONINGSBY. Svo.       "........."                 60
IX. TANCRED; or, The New Crusade. Svo. Paper............."  so
GRACE AGUILAR'S WORKS.
New uniform edition, with Illustrations. Cloth. I2mo. Price, $1.00 per volume.
I. HOME INFLUENCE.
II. THE MOTHER'S RECOMPENSE. A Sequel to "Home Influence."
III. WOMAN'S FRIENDSHIP.
IV. HOME SCENES AND HEART STUDIES.
V. THE VALE OF CEDARS.
VI. THE DAYS OF BRUCE. 2 vols.
VII. THE WOMEN OF ISRAEL. 2 v~ls
JULIA KAVANAGH'S NOVELS.
New uniform edition. Cloth. ~2mo. rrice, $1.2S per volume.
Now ready:
I. NATHALIE.       II. DAISY BURNS.       III. QUEEN MAB.
IV. BEATRICE.           V. ADi~LE.
CHARLOTTE YONGE'S NOVELS.
New uniform edition, with new Frontispiece to each volume. Cloth. 12mG.
Price, $1.00 per volume.
Now ready:
THE HEIR OF REDCLYFFE.................2 vols.
HEARTSEASE............................2 vols.
DAISY CHAIN...........................2 vols.
]3EECHCROFT............................I vol.
TWO GUARDIANS........................1 vol.
THE CAGED LION.......................1 vol.
D. APPLETON &amp; CO., Publishers,
549 &amp; 561 BROADWAY, NEW YORL


  
             
         
       
   
